






Sat 'VgSj 






CYCLOPEDIA 


OF 


BIBLICAL, 

THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL 
LITERATURE. 

PREPARED BY 


THE REV. JOHN M'CLINTOCK, D.D, 

AND 

JAMES STRONG, S.T.D. 


Vol. III. — E, F, G. 


PRIVATE LIBRARY 
RICHARD C. HALVERSON 


NEW YORK: 

HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 

FRANKLIN SQUARE. 

1882 . 


Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight hundred 

and seventy, by 

HARPER & BROTHERS, 

In the Clerks Office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York. 


PREFACE TO VOL. III. 


In' the Preface to the first volume of this work it was stated that the department 
of Biblical Literature is exclusively in the charge of Dr. Strong, who is responsible for 
all the articles in that field. It may be proper to add that this department embraces 
not merely Bible names, but also all branches of Biblical Introduction, including such 
articles, for instance, as Canon of Scripture, Commentary , Concordance , Criticism , 
Cross, I., II., Ethnology, etc.; also, Biblical philology, manuscripts and versions, and 
many cognate subjects, such as English Versions, Eschatology, Essenes, Ethiopic 
Language, Fortification, Geology , Government, etc. In this department the Dic- 
tionaries of Ivitto and Smith are freely used, all the important matter of both being 
incorporated into these pages, with references at the end to the authority cited. The 
range of this department, however, is greatly extended beyond the scope of these or 
any similar works heretofore published. 

In Dr. M‘Clintock’s department, all verbal citations are noted by quotation marks. 
If this is omitted in any case, it is by accident. In this department, also, the names 
ot the writers of special articles are indicated by their initials in the list at the end 
of the volume, as follows : 

W. J. A. — William J. Allinsox, editor of Friends' Review , Burlington, N. J. 

G. F. 0. — Professor G. F. Comfort, Princeton College. 

D. J). — The Rev'. Daniel de Yinne, New York. 

It. D.— The Rev. Robert Davidson, D.D., Huntingdon, L. I. 

F. W. F — The Rev. F. W. Flocken, missionary of the Methodist Episcopal Church, Tultscha, Bulgaria, 

E. Y. G. — The Rev. E.Y. Geriiakt, D.D., professor in Mercersburgh Theological Seminary. 

J. T. G. — The Rev. J. T. Gracey, missionary in India (Methodist Episcopal Church). 

II. G. — The Rev. IIenry Graiiam, Lansingbnrgh, N. Y. < 

II. II. — The Rev. II. IIarbaugii, D.D., lato president of Theological Seminary, Mercersburgh, Pa, 

R. D. II. — Professor R. D. Hitchcock, D.D., Union Theological Seminary, New York. 

C. II. — The Rev. Charles Hodge, D.D., Princeton Theological Seminary. 

G. F. II. — Professor George F. Holmes, University of Virginia. 

J. F. II. — The Rev. John F. Hurst, D.D., Mission Institute, Bremen, Germany. 

S. 31. J. — Samuel 31. Jaxney, Lincoln, Loudoun County, A'a. 

O. J. — Oliver Johnson, office of The Independent , New York. 

J. 13. L. — The Rev. J. B. Logan, editor of Western Cumberland Presbyterian, Alton, 111. 

J. 3V. 31. — Professor J. 3Y. Marshall, late of Dickinson College. 

B. II. N. — Processor B. II. Nadal, D.D., Drew Theological Seminary, 

E, A. P. — vrofessor E. A. Park, D.D., Theological Seminary, Andover. 

J. N. P. — Jules N. Proesciiel, Paris, France. 

A. J. S. — Professor Alexander J. Sciiem, New York. 

E. de S.— The Rev. E. de Sciiweinitz, editor of The Moravian , Bethlehem, Pa. 

L. E. S. — Professor L. E. Smith, office of Examiner and Chronicle, New York. 

A. S. — The Rev. x\bel Stevens, LL.D., Brooklyn. 

31. L. S.— Professor 31. L. Stoever, Pennsylvania College, Gettysburg. 

G. L. T. — The Rev. George L. Taylor, New York. 

V . J. R. T. — The Rev. W. J. R. Taylor, D.D., Secretary of American Bible Society, New York. 

J. P. W — The Rev. J. P. 3 Vestervelt, Paterson, N. J. 

C. P. W. — The Rev. C. P. Wing, D.D., Carlisle, Pa. 

J. H. AY. — J. II.Worman, A.3L, librarian of Drew Theological Seminary. 

R. Y.— The Rev. lb Yeakel, Cleveland, Ohio. 

A considerable number of articles for this Cyclopedia are in part prepared, nearly 
up to the end of the alphabet; but there are numerous subjects that can only be 
treated advantageously at or near the time of printing. All the articles are revised 
de novo as the work goes through the press, and the latest literature, in new books as 
well as in the journals of all nations, is consulted in this revision. The succeeding vol- 
umes may therefore be expected as rapidly as they can be carried through the press. 



LIST OF WOOD-CUTS IN VOL III, 


Assyrian Eagle Page 

Imperial Eagle 

Egyptian Corn 

Early English Window 

Early English Capital 

Early English Pediment 

Ancient Oriental Ear-rings 

Ancient Egyptian Ear-rings 

Ancient Assyrian Ear-rings 

Modern Egyptian Ear-rings 

Ancient Triclinium 

Modern Oriental Dinner-party 

Branch of Diospyrus Eburnimi 

Plan of Ec.batana 

Map of Western Asia 

Hieroglyph for u Egypt" . 

Modern Egypt 

Egypt under the Romans 

Ancient Profiles 

Sign Tail 

Propylon of Temple at Luxor 

Asiatic Elephant 

Temple at Ellora 

Swathing a Mummy 

Painting a Mummy-case 

Mummy’s Head in Coffin 

Mummy of Pen-amen 

Ancient Egyptian Embroidery 

Ancient Assyrian Embroidery 

Modern Oriental Embroidery 

Modern Arab Encampment 

Ancient Egyptian Testudo 

Roman Catapult 

Roman Tali at a 

Assyrian War-engine 

Roman Battering-ram worked by 

hand 

Roman covered Battering-ram on 

wheels 

Roman llclcpolis 

Ancient Egyptian Ensigns 

Early Coin of Ephesus 

Plan of Ephesus 

Roman Coin of Ephesus 

“Diana of the Ephesians" 

Plan of Temple of Diana at Ephesus. 

The Jewish Ephod 

Ancient Egyptian Tunic 

Ancient Egyptian sacred Coat 

Specimen of the Ephraem 318 

Map of Ephraim 

Ancient Egyptians Writing 

Statue of Erasmus at Rotterdam 

Tomb of Mordecai aud Esther 

Ancient Ethiopians 

Specimen of Ethiopic MS 

Ethnographic Map of the World 

Oriental Ewer and Basin 

Map of the Exode 

Assyrians Blinding a Prisoner 

Modern Egyptian Face painted 

Ancient Egyptian Boxes for Face- 

paint 

Tomb of Ezekiel 

Tomb of Ezra 

Large Falcon 

Small Falcon 

Common Fallow-deer. 

Antilope Tubalis 

Fan-tracery Vaulting 

Ancient Egyptian Fanning 

Assarion of Chios. 

Jlornan .Is 

Roman Qnadrans 

Ancient Egyptian Poulterers. 

Ancient Persian Sword 

“Golden Gate" of Jerusalem 

Ancient Egyptian Gate-guard 

Ancient Assyrian City-wall 

The Geeko 

Feet of the Gecko 

Ancient Egyptian Ferry-boat 

Ancient Assyrians crossing a River. . 

Ancient Assyrian Manacles 

Ancient Egyptian Handcuffs 


3 French Feuillant Monk Page 

3 Italian Feuillant Monk 

4 Feuillant Nun 

5 Fruit of the Fig 

5 Fig-tree 

5 Fillets 

6 Finials 

7 Ancient Egyptian refining Gold.. . . . 

7 Ancient Egyptians curing Fish 

7 Ancient Egyptian spearing Fish.... 

15'Ancient Egyptian Fish-net 

Ifii Ancient Assyrian Fishiug 

23 Xigella Sativa 

25 Cyperus Esculentus 

55 ' 

•75 

76 

77 
83 
88 

103 
138 
1G3 
174 
174 


174 


Flamboyant Window 

Flax-plant * 

Ancient Egyptian dressing Flax 

Common Flax 

Etruscan Flesh-hook 

Ancient Egyptian Flesh-pot 

Ancient Assyrian Floats 

Modern Assyrian Raft 

Ancient Egyptian Flutes 

Ancient Roman Flutes 

Modern Egyptian Flute 

Doric and Ionic Fluting. 


175 Silver Coin of Aradns 

176 TabanuB Alpitms 

176 Font at Swaton 

177 Font at St. Mildred’s 

187 Nun of Fontevrault 

106 Monk of Fontevrault 

196 Oriental Marks in the Forehead 

196 Ancient Egyptians attacking a Fort. 
19G Ancient Assyrians attacking a Fort . 

.Modern Persian Fort 

197 Fountain near Beyrout 

Fountain at Nazareth 

197 Ancient Egyptian Geese-rearing 

197 Ancient Egyptian Fowling with the 
232 Throw-stick 

241 Ancient Egyptian catching and pre- 

242 serving Geese 

243 Syrian Fox 

244 Egyptian Dog-fox 

244 Franciscan Friar 

248 Conventual Franciscan 

249 Observant Franciscan 

24 ) Tosirellia Serrata 

249 Assyrian Fringed Garments 

251 Egyptian Fringed Linen 

269 Assyrian Tassels and Fringes 

277 Original Form of the Talith 

307 Modified Form of the Talith 

327 Fritlistool at Beverly 

334 Tana Punctata 

341 Jewish Frontlet 

383 1 Ancient Egyptian Fullers 

40s | Egyptian FuneraFRites 

427 1 M ohannnedan Bier 

42S Ancient Egyptiau Funeral 

Modern Egyptian Funeral 

428 brother of St. Gabriel 

431 Map of Gad 

437 Coin of Gadara 


Coin of Galatia 

Dniidical Cairn and Kist-vaens 

Map of the Dead Sea 

Ancient Assyrian Galley 

Egyptians lifting Bags of Sand 

Ancient Egyptians Fencing. 

Egyptians swinging Women around.. 

Ancient Homan Beast-fighter 

Figure of a Roman Gladiator. 

Ancient Reapers 

Ancient Game of Quoits 

Ancient Wrestlers 

Ancient Boxers 

Ancient hurling the Javelin... ...... 

Ancient Foot-race 

Olympic Chariot-race 

Isthmian Crown on a Coin 

Assyrian Representation of a Wall 

hung with Shields 

Ancient Egyptian Garden 


541 Ancient Assyrian Gardens Page 740 

541 Oriental Garden-house 742 

541 Gargoyle on St. Stephen’s, Vienna. . . 743 
544 Gargoyle on St. Alkinund’s, Derby.. . 743 

544 Gargoyle on Horsley Church 748 

561 Allium A scaloni cum 745 

561 Ancient Egyptians storing Grain 745 

562 Ancient Egyptian Gate-guard 749 

57S Gateway at Medinet Abu 759 

579 Assyrians firing an Enemy’s Gate.. . 750 

5S0 Ancient Assyrian Portal 759 

580 Satrap at the Gate of a Greek City. . 751 

583 Coin of Gaza: 756 

586 Gazella Arabica 753 

58S Canon of St. Genevieve 7S5 

591 Daughter of St. Genevieve 785 

591 Map of the Roman World 791 

592 31 a p of Countries known to the Patri- 

595 archs 792 

595 Section of the Earth’s Crust 802 

598 Geological 3Iap of Palestine 80S 

598 Mingrelian 3Ionk 812 

606 RuiuS of Jerash 816 

606 Foundations of Temple on Gcrizim.. 8*2 0 

COG Garden of Getlisemane 820 

607 Map of the Battle at Gibeon 841 

607 Percnojitcrus Xeophron 357 

60S Canon of St. Gilbert 864 

609 Nun of St. Gilbert 804 

610 Amyris Gileadense 869 

610 Circle of Druidical Stones 370 

610 Egyptian Sacred Girdles S76 

618 Ancient Girdles 877 

627 Ancient Egyptian Glass-blowers SSI 

627 Egyptian Glass Bottles and Jugs. . . . SSI 

628 Glass Bottle from Nimrud SSI 

631; Bottles and Earthen-ware from Babil SSI 

632 Glass Vases from Pompeii SS2 

634 J//?ras - Egyjotius SS4 

\Mihus A ter SS4 

634 Organs of a Gnat S90 

Oriental Ox-goad S96 

635 Long-eared Syrian Goat 898 

636 Common Syrian Goat SOS 

636 1 Wild Goat of Sinai 899 

650, Coin of Archelaus of 3Iacedoma 899 

651 Perso-Macedonian Gem 900 

651 Egyptian Goblets and Vases 900 

657 Ancient Egyptian Goldsmiths 91S 

677iCoin of Gortyna 929 

677 |31ap of Goshen 931 

677 1 Pointed Gothic Arches 942 

678 Section of Arch at Nevers 942 

673 pillar of Cologne Cathedral 943 

679j Window in* *St. Lambert’s, 3Iiinstcr. . 943 
680 1 Flying-hut tress of Cologne Cathedral 943 

682 1 Plan of Cologne Cathedral 943 

691 i Interior of Cologne Cathedral 944 

694 Fapade of Rheims Cathedral 945 

695 Facade of York Cathedral 946 

695! Cathedral of Cologne 946 

696 1 Cathedral of Burgos. 947 

702 Cathedral of Sienna 948 

7041 Ticinus Communis 152 

700 Oriental Gourd-arbor. 953 

710 \Citrullus Colocyuthus 954 

15 Ancient Egyptian Granary 964 

Palestine Grapes 967 

Old Man as a Grasshopper. 9G3 

Ancient Grecian Greaves 975 

Ancient Assyrian Greaves 975 

Plan of Treasury of Atreus 975 

Section of Treasury of Atreus 975 

Pillar of Treasury of Atreus. 976 

Ionic Order of Erechtheum 976 

Ionic Order, Monument of Lysicmtes 977 

Plan of the Parthenon 977 

Parthenon restored 978 

Map of Ancient Greeee 9S0 

Egyptian Woman mourning 1003 

Oriental Women grinding 31eal 1012 

Assyrian Symbolic Tree 1021 

Tamarix Oricntalis 1022 

Ancient Egyptian Sentry. 1024 



CYCLOP JEDIA 


OF 


BIBLICAL, THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL LITERATURE. 


E. 


Eachard, John, D.D., an English divine, was 
• horn in Suffolk in 1636, and was admitted at Catharine 
Hall, Cambridge, in 1G53. lie became fellow of his 
college in 1(358, and was chosen master in 1675. lie 
died July 7, 1607. Ilis Works were collected in 3 vols. 
l*2ino (Lond. 1784), containing a Sketch of his Life , a 
Discussion of Hobbes's State of Nature, and an Essay on 
the Grounds of the Contempt of the Clergy . — New Gen. 
Blog. Diet, v, 53; Kippis, Biog. Britannica , v, 529. 

Eachard, Lawrence. See Eciiahd. 

Eadfrith, bishop of Lindisfarne from 698 to 721. 
He is sometimes named as the first translator of the 
Bible into Anglo-Saxon, but this is a mistake. There 
is, however, a splendid manuscript, written by Ead- 
frith with his own hand, in the Cottonian Library. 
It is known as The Durham Book. — Wright, Biog.Brit. 
Lit., Anglo-Saron Period, p. 242. 

Eadiner, or Edmer, a monk of Canterbury (12th 
century), was elected bishop of St. Andrew’s, in Scot- 
land, 1120, which office he did not accept for the fol- 
lowing rpa son : “The question of lay investiture of 
ecclesiastical benefices was then in its crisis; there 
was a controversy between Canterbury and York for 
jurisdiction over the see of St. Andrew’s; that see, 
again, asserted its independence of either of the Eng- 
lish metropolitans; and Eadiner seems to have added 
to all these perplexities a difficulty as to his monastic 
allegiance. ‘Not for all Scotland,’ he said to the 
Seottisli king, ‘ will I renounce being a monk of Can- 
terbury.’ The king, on his side, was equally unyield- 
ing; and the issue was the return of Eidmer to his 
English monastery, uneousecrated indeed, but still 
claiming to be bishop of St. Andreev’s. He was made 
precentor of Canterbury, and died, it is supposed, in 
January, 1124” (Chambers, Encyclopedia , s. v.). Eid- 
mer is one of the most important of the early Eng- 
lish historians. He wrote a history of the affairs of 
England of his own time, from 1077 to 1122 {I list or kt 
Novorum she sui sceculi), in which many original pa- 
pers are inserted, and many important foots, nowhere 
else to be found, arc preserved. This work has been 
highly commended, both by old and modern writers, 
as well for its correctness as for regularity of com- 
position and purity of style. The best edition is 
that by Sehleu in 1623. Eadmer wrote the life of 
Anselm (generally found printed with his works), and 
the lives of Wilfred, Oswald, Dunstan, and others, 
given in the Acta Sanctorum , and in Warton, AngHa 
Sacra (vol. ii). The Vita Ansehni is prefixed to An- 
selm’s works (Benedictine edition; also in Migne’s 
Patrologui). The llistoria Novorum and Eadmer’s mi- 
nor writings are given also in Migne, Patrologia La - 
tinci, vol. clix, 347 sq. — Hook, Eccl. Bine/, iv, 52 ; Cave, 
Hist. Lit. (Geneva, 1720) i, 574 ; Collier, Eccl. Hist, of 
Great Britain (Barham’s edit.), ii, 183 sq. ; Wright, 
Blog. Brit . Lit. , Angh-Norman Period, p. 82 sq. 

I II. -A 


| Eagle occurs in Scripture as the translation of the 
Heb. ( ne' sher , so called from tearing its prey with 

■ its beak : occurs Exod. xix, 4 ; Lev. xi, 13; Deut. xiv, 
12; xxviii, -19; xxxii, 11; 2 Sam. i, 23; Job ix, 26; 
xxxix, 27 ; Psa. eiii, 5; Prov. xxiii, 5; xxx, 17, 19; 
Isa. xl, 31 ; Jer. iv, 13 ; xlviii, 40 ; xlix, 16, 22; Lam. 
iv, 19; Ezek. i, 10; x, 14; xvii, 3, 7; Ilos. viii, 1; 

I Obad. 4; Mic. i, 16; Hub. i, 8), with which all the 
j designations of the kindred dialects agree, Chald. ‘TtL'l 
(jieshnr' , Dan. iv, 33; vii, 4), Sept, and N. T. curog 
(Matt, xxiv, 28 ; Luke xvii, 37 ; Ilev. iv, 7 ; xii, 14). 
As there are many species of eagles, the nesher, when 
distinguished from others, seems to have denoted the 
i chief species, the golden eagle, xpucraLrog, as in Lev. 
xi, 13; Deut. xiv, 12. The word, however, seems 1o 
have had a broader acceptation, and, like the Greek 
| utTog and Arabic nesr (see Bochart, JJieroz. ii, 312 sq.), 
sometimes comprehends also a species of vulture , espe- 
cially in those passages where the nesher is said to be 
bald (Mic. i, 16), and to feed on carcases (Job xxix, 
27 ; Prov. xxx, 17 ; Matt, xxiv, 28), which the true 
i eagle is disinclined to do. See Gier-Eagle ; Hawk ; 
Osprey; Ossifrage; Vulture. 

1. The characteristics of the eagle referred to in the 
Scriptures are, its swiftness of flight (Deut. xxviii, 49; 
2 Sam. i, 23 ; Jer. iv, 13 ; xlix, 22 ; Lam. iv, 19, etc.) ; 
its mounting high into the air (Job xxxix, 27 ; Prov. 
xxiii, 5; xxx, 19; Isa. xl, 31; Jer. xlix, 16); its 
strength and vigor (in Psa. eiii, 5); its predaceous 
habits (Job ix, 26 ; Prov. xxx, 17 ; compare /Elian, 
Anim. x, 14); its setting its nest in high places (in 
Jer. xlix, 16 ; comp. Aristotle, Anim. ix, 22 ; Pliny, x, 
4) ; the care in training its young to fly (in Exod. xix, 
4; Deut. xxxii, 11); ‘its powers of vision (in Job 
xxxix, 29; comp. Homer, II. xvii, 674; /Elian, Anim.. 
i, 42; Isidore, Origg. xii, 1; Pliny, xii, 88); and its 
moulting (Psa. eiii, 5). As king of birds, the eagle nat- 
urally became an emblem of powerful empires (Ezek. 
xvii, 3, 7), especially in the symbolical figures of Bab- 
ylon (Dan. vii, 4), and the cherubim (Ezek. i, 10; x, 
14 ; Lev. iv, 7), like the griffin of classical antiquity. 
See Creature, Living. Eaglets are referred to in 
Prov. xxx, 17 as first picking out the eyes of their prey. 

The following is a close translation of a graphic de- 
scription of raptorial birds of this class which occurs in 
the book of Job (xxxix, 26-30) : 

by tliy understanding: will [the] hawk tower, 

Spread Ms wings southward? 

I\ reliance on tliv bidding [the] eagle will soar. 

Or [it is tlvn] that lie will make, lofty his nest? 

A ruck will he inhabit, and [there] roost. 

Upon the peak of a rock, even [the] citadel : 

Thence he has spied food. 

From afar his eyes will look : 

Then his brood will sip blood ; 

Ay, wherever [are the] slain, there [is] he! 

To the last, line in this quotation our Saviour seems to 
allude in Matt, xxiv, 28. “Wheresoever the carcase 


EAGLE 


2 


EAGLE 


is, there will the eagles be gathered together;” that | 
is, wherever the Jewish people, who were morally and 
judicially dead, might be, there would the Homan ar- 
mies, whose standard was an eagle, and whose strength 
and tierceness resembled that of the king of birds, in 
comparison with his fellows, pursue and devour them. 
The liiToi of Matt, xxiv, 2S ; Luke xvii, 37, may in- 
clude the Vultur Julvus and Neophron jwrcnopterus ; 
though, as some eagles prey upon dead bodies, there 
is no necessity to restrict the Greek word to the Vul- 
turidce (see Lucian, Xuriy. p. 1; comp. ►Seneca, Ep. 95 ; 
Martial, vi, 62). The ligure of an eagle is now, and 
has long been, a favorite military ensign. The Per- 
sians so employed it, which fact illustrates the pas- 
sage in Isa. xlvi, 11, where Cyrus is alluded to under 
the symbol of an “eagle” (-^*) or “ravenous bird” 
(compare Xenoph. Cyrop. vii, 4). The same bird was 
similarly employed by the Assyrians and the Romans. 
Eagles are frequently represented in Assyrian sculp- 
tures attending the soldiers in their battles, and some 
have hence supposed that they were trained birds. 
Considering, however, the wild and intractable nature 
of eagles, it is very improbable that this was the case. 
The representation of these birds was doubtless in- 
tended to portray the common feature in Eastern bat- 
tle-field scenery, of birds of prey awaiting to satisfy 
their hunger on the bodies of the slain. These pas- 
sages have been by some commentators referred to the 
vulture, on the assumed ground that the eagle never , 
feeds on carrion, but confines itself to that prey which 
it has killed by its own prowess. This, however, is a 
mistake (see Forskal, Descnpt. Anim. p. 12; compare 
Miehaelis,0ne?zL Blhl. ix,37 sq., and new Orient. Bibl. 
iii, 43 sq.) ; no such ehivalrou-s feeling exists in either 
eagle or lion; both will feed ignominiously on a body 
found dead. Any visitor of the British zoological gar- 
dens may see that the habit imputed is at least not in- 
variable. (See also Thomson, Land and Book , i,49L) 
Aquila bifasciata , of India, was shot by Col. Sykes at 
the carcase of a tiger; and A. retpax , of South Africa, 
is “frequently one of the first birds that approaches a 
dead animal.” 

Of all known birds, the eagle flies not only the high- 
est, but also with the greatest rapidity (comp. Homer, 
II. xxii, SOS). To this circumstance there arc several 
striking allusions in the sacred volume. Among the 
evils threatened to the Israelites in case of their diso- 
bedience, the prophet names one in the following 
terms; “The Lord shall bring a nation against thee 
from far, from the end of the earth, as swift as the 
eagle flieth” (Dent, xxviii, 49). The march of Nebu- 
chadnezzar against Jerusalem is predicted in the same 
terms: “Behold, he shall come up as clouds, and his 
chariots as a whirlwind: his horses arc swifter than 
eagles” (Jer. iv, 13*); as is his invasion of Moab also: 
“For thus sait.h the Lord, Behold, he shall tlv as an 
eagle, and shall spread his wings over Moab” (chap, 
xlviii. 40); i. e. he shall settle down on the devoted 
country as an eagle over its pre}\ (Sec also Lam. iv, 
19 ; Hos. viii, 2 ; Hab. i, <S.) 

The eagle, it is said, lives to a great age, and, like 
other birds of prey, sheds his feathers in the beginning 
of spring. After this season he appears with fresh 
strength and vigor, and his old age assumes the ap- 
pearance of youth. To this David alludes when grate- 
fully reviewing the mercies of Jehovah, “Who satis- 
fietli thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is 
renewed like the eagle’s” (Psa. eiii, 5); as does the 
prophet, also, when describing the renovating and 
quickening influences of the Spirit of God: “They 
that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength ; 
they shall mount up -with wings as eagles ; they shall 
run and not be weary; and they shall walk and not 
faint” (Isa. xl, 31). Some Jewish interpreters. have 
illustrated the former passage bv a reference to the 
old fables about tho eagle being able to renew his 


strength w hen very old (see Bochart, Ilieroz. ii, 747). 
But modern commentators for the most part are in- 
clined to think that these words refer to the eagle after 
the moulting season, when the bird is more full of ac- 
tivity than before. Others prefer Hengstenberg’s ex- 
planation on Psa. eiii, 5, “Thy youth is renewed, so 
that in point of strength thou art like the eagle.” 

The passage in Mic. i, 16, “Enlarge thy baldness as 
the eagle,” has been understood by Bochart {Ilieroz. 
ii, 744) and others to refer to the eagle at the time of its 
moulting in the spring. Oedman {Vennischte Snmml. 
i, 64) erroneously refers the baldness spoken of by the 
prophet to point to the Vultur barbatvs ( Gypatus ), the 
bearded vulture or lammergeyer, which he supposed 
was bald. It appears to us to be extremely improba- 
ble that there is any reference in the passage under 
consideration to eagles moulting. Allusion is here 
made to the custom of shaving the head as a token of 
mourning; blit there would be little or no appropri- 
ateness in the comparison of a shaved head with an 
eagle at the time of moulting. But if the ntahr is 
supposed to denote the griffon vulture {Vultur ftdrus), 
the simile is peculiarly appropriate; it may be re- 
marked that the Hebrew' verb kdracli (fl“p) signifies 
<: to make bald on the hack part of the head;” the no- 
tion here conveyed is very applicable to the whole 
head and neck of this bird, which is destitute of true 
feathers. The direction of the prophet is to a token 
of mourning, which was usually assumed by making 
bald the crown of the head; here, however, it was to 
be enlarged, extended, as the baldness of the eagle. 
Exactly answering to this idea is Mr. Bruce’s descrip- 
tion of the head of the “golden eagle:” the crown 
of his head was bare : so w r as the front w here the bill 
and skull joined. The meaning of the prophet, there- 
fore, seems to be that the people were not to content 
themselves with shaving the crown of the head merely, 
as on ordinary occasions, but, under this special visi- 
tation of retributive justice, were to exteud the bald- 
ness over the entire head. 

With reference to the texts referred to above, w hich 
compare the watchful and sustaining care of his peo- 
ple by the Almighty with that exhibited by the eagle 
in training its young ones to fly, especially the spirited 
one in Deut. xxxii, 11, 12 — 

“As an eagle will rouse his nest; 

Over his fledgelings will hover; 

Will spread his wings, Will take it [i. e. his brood, or each 
of the young] ; 

Will bear it upon his pinions : 

[:>o] Jehovah, he alone would guide him [i. e. Israel] ; 

And there was not with him a strange god” — 

we may quote a passage from Sir Humphrey Davy, 
who says, “ I once saw a very interesting sight above 
one of the crags of Ben Nevis, as I was going in the 
pursuit of black game. Two parent eagles were teaeh- 
ing their offspring, two young birds, the manoeuvres 
of flight. They began by rising from the top of the 
mountain, in the eye of the sun. It was about mid- 
day, ami bright for this climate. They at first made 
small circles, and the young birds imitated them. 
They paused on their wings, waiting till they had 
made their first flight, and then took a second and 
larger gyration, always rising towards the sun, and 
enlarging their circle of flight so as to make a gradu- 
ally ascending spiral. The young ones still and slow- 
ly followed, apparently flying better as they mount- ' 
ed; and they continued this sublime exercise, always 
rising, till they became mere points in the air, and the 
young ones were lost, and afterwards their parents, 
to our aching sight.” The expression in Exod. and 
Deut., “beareth them on her wings,” has been under- 
j stood by Rabbinical writers and others to mean that 
the eagle does actually carry her young ones on her 
wings and shoulders. This is putting on the words a 
construction which they by no means are intended to 
i convey; at the same time, it is not improbable that 


EAGLE 


3 


EAGLE 



the parent bird assists the first efforts of her young by 
flying under them, thus sustaining them for a moment, 
and encouraging them in their early lessons. (Comp. 
iElian, Anim. ii, 40 ; Oppian ,Cyneg. iii, 115; Jerome in 
Jesa. xlvi ; Naumann, Xaturgesch. d. Vogel , i, 215 ; on 
the contrary, Aristotle, Anim. ix, 22.) 

Finally, the eagle was an Assyrian emblem, and 
hence probably the refer- 
ence in I lab. i, 8. The 
eagle-headed deity of the 
Assyrian sculptures is that 
of the god Nisrocli (q. v.) ; 
and in the representations 
of battles trained birds of 
this order are frequently 
shown accompanying the 
Assyrian warriors in their 
Eagle flying away with the attacks, and in one. case 
Entrails of those slain in bearing off the entrails of 
Battle.— From the Assyri- the s l a j n . From the As- 
an Monuments. Syrians the use of the eagle 

as a standard (q. v.) descended to the Persians, and 
from them probably to the Romans. See Wemyss, 
Symbol. D'ct. s. v. The following scientific descrip- 
tions are chiefly from Kitto and Smith, s. v. 

2. The eagle, in zoology, forms a family of several 
genera of birds of prey, mostly distinguished for their 
size, courage, powers of flight, and arms for attack. 
The bill is strong, and bent into a plain pointed hook, 
without the notch in the inner curve which character- 
izes falcons; the nostrils are covered with a naked 
cere' or skin of a yellow or a bine color; the eyes are 
lateral, sunken, or placed beneath an overhanging 
brow; the head and neck covered with abundance of j 
longish, narrow-pointed feathers ; the chest broad, and 
the legs and thighs exceedingly stout and sinewy. , 
Eagles, properly so called, constitute the genus A qnila , 
and have the tarsi feathered down to the toes ; the}' 
are clothed in general with brownish and rust-colored 
feathers, and the tail is black, .grey, or deep brown. 
Sea-eagles (genus Ilalicetus ) have the tarsi or legs half 
bare and covered with horny scales; not unusually I 
the head, back, and tail more or less white. The 
larger species of both measure, from head to tip of 
tail, 3 feet G inches or more, and spread their wings 
above 7 feet G inches ; but these are proportionally 
broad to their length, for it is the third quill feather 
which is the longest, as if the Creator intended to re- 
strain within bounds their rapidity of flight, while by 
their breadth the power of continuing on the wing is 
little or not at all impeded. The claws of the fore 
and hind toe are particularly strong and sharp ; in the 
sea-eagles they form more than half a circle, and in 
length measure from 1£ to If of an inch. These ma- 
jestic birds have their abode in Europe, on the shores 
of the Mediterranean, in Syria and Arabia, wherever 
there are vast woody mountains and lofty cliffs ; they 
occupy each a single district, always by pairs, except- 
ing on the coasts, where the sea-eagle and.thd osprey 
( Pandion hnluctus ) may be found not remote from the 
region possessed by the rough-legged eagles — the first 
because it seeks to subsist on the industry of the sec- 
ond, and does not interfere with the prey of the third. 
It is in this last genus, most generally represented by 
the golden eagle (.1 quila chrgsrt ta ) that the most pow r - 
erful and largest birds are found. That species in its 
more juvenile plumage, known as the ring-tailed eagle, 
the imperial eagle, or mogilnick {A. heliaca ), and the 
booted eagle (A.pinnata), is found in Syria; and at 
least one species of the sea-eagles (the Ihd. ossifragus, 
albicilla, or albicavdus) frequents the coasts, and is 
even of stronger wing than the others. These build 
usually in the cliffs of Phoenicia, while the others are 
more commonly domiciliated within the mountains. 
According to their strength and habits, the former 
subsist on antelopes, hares, hvrax, bustard, stork, tor- 
toises, and serpents ; and the latter usually live on , 


fish ; both pursue the catta ( pterocles ), partridge, and 
lizard. The osprey alone being migratory, retires to 
Southern Arabia in winter. None, excepting the last 
mentioned, are so exclusively averse to carrion as is 
commonly asserted : from choice or necessity they all, 
but in particular the sea-eagles, occasionally feed upon 
carcases of horses, etc.; and it is w r ell known in the 
East that they follow armies for that purpose. Hence 
the allusions in Job and Matt, xxiv, 28, though vul- 
tures may be included, are perfectly correct. So again 
are those which refer to the eagle’s eyrie, fixed in the 
most elevated cliffs. The swiftness of this bird, stoop- 
ing among a flock of wild geese with the rushing sound 
of a whirlwind, is very remarkable; and all know its 
towering flight, suspended on its broad wings among 
the clouds with little motion or effort. Thus the pre- 
dictions, in which terrible nations coming from afar 
arc assimilated to eagles, have a poetical and absolute 
truth, since there are species, like the golden, which 
really inhabit the whole circumference of the earth, 
and the nations alluded to bore eagles’ wings for stand- 
ards, and for ornaments on their shields, helmets, and 
shoulders. In the northern half of Asia, and among 
all the Turkish races, this practice is not entirely aban- 
doned at this day, and eagle ensigns were constantly 
the companions of the dragons. China, India, Baetria, 
Persia, Egypt, the successors of Alexandria, the Etrus- 
cans, the Romans, the Celtrc, and the Arabs had eagle 
signa of carved w r ork, of metal, or the skins of birds 
stuffed, and set up as if they were living. These, 
named (r tyit , a “ravenous bird,” Isa. xlvi, 1, 

w hence cRroc), aquila , ergx, simurg , humma or humai- 
on, karakush (the birds of victory of different na- 
tions and periods of antiquity), w r cre always symboli- 
cal of rapid, irresistible conquest. A black eagle was 
tiie ensign of Ivalid, general of Mohammed, at the bat- 
tle of Aisnadin, anil the carved eagle still seen on the 
w r alls of the citadel of Cairo, set up by Karakush, the 
vizier of Salah-ed-din, to commemorate his own name 
and administration, indicates a species not here enu- 
merated. At least four distinct kinds of eagles have 
been observed in Palestine, viz. the golden eagle 
(Aquila Chrysaetos ), the spotted eagle (.-I. nanui), the 
common species in the rocky districts (see Ibis, i, 23), 
the imperial eagle ( A quila Ilehacii), and the very com- 
mon Circretos galliots, which preys on the numerous 
reptilia of Palestine (see the vernacular Arabic names 
of different species of Yulturidae and Falcon ida; in 
Loche’s Catalogue des Oiseaux observ. en Algirie ; and 



Imperial Engle (Aquili Ileliaca). 

in Ibis, vols. i, ii, Tristram's papers on the ornithology 
of North Africa). The Heb. ne.d/er may stand for any 
of these different species, though perhaps more, parlio 


EAGLE 


4 


lilar reference to the golden and imperial eagles and 
the griii'on vulture may be intended. The Aq. heliuca , 
here figured, is the species most common in {Syria, and 
is distinguished from the others by a spot of white 
feathers on each shoulder. ({See the Penny Cyclopaedia, 
s. v. Kalconida>; Ilebenstreit, Aquilee natura e S.S. 
hlstoria, e historia natumli ct e Monumentt. v ett. ulus - 
trata, Lips. 1747.) feee P>ird. 

EAGLE, in the Church of England, the desk or lec- 
turn from which the lessons are read is often in the 
form of an eagle with outspread wings. The usage is 
probably derived from the fact that, in ecclesiastical 
symbolism, the eagle is the accompanying symbol of 
t ho apostle John (see Jamieson, Sacred and Legendary 
Arl, i, 137). 

S'cines (Mdr?;t-,Y nig. Esses, Syr. Afani), a name 
given (1 Esdr. ix, 21) as that of a third son of Emmer 
(Immer) ; apparently in place of Harim, and his first 
two sons Maaseiah and Elijah of the Heb. list (Ezra x, 
21). Fritzsclie suggests ( Exeg . Ilandb. in loc.) that 
/cat M dvijg is a mistranslation of the “’-Z'ZSl, “and of 
the sons of,” of the Ileb. text, the three names follow- 
ing having been omitted by the Greek translator. 

Ear (properly j"k, o'zen , out,), the organ of hear- 
ing. In Scripture the term is frequently employed 
figuratively. To signify the regard of Jehovah to the 
prayers of his people, the Psalmist says, “ His ears are 
open to their cry” (Psalm xxxiv, 15). To “ uncov- 
er the ear” is a Hebraism, and signifies to show or 
reveal something to a person (1 Sam. xx, 2). The 
Psalmist, speaking in the person of the Messiah, says, 
‘‘Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine 
cars hast thou opened” (Psa. xl, G). Ainsworth reads, 
“ Mine ears hast thou digged open.” The Sept., which 
Paul follows (Heb. x, 5), reads the passage thus : “A 
body hast thou prepared me.” “Make the ears of 
this people heavy," occurs in Isaiah vi, 10, that is. 
render their minds inattentive and disobedient : with 
a similar meaning, the prophet Jeremiah speaks of 
“ears nncircumcised” (vi, 10). Among the Jews, the 
slave who renounced the privilege of being made free 
from servitude in the sabbatical year submitted to 
have his ear bored through witli an awl, which was 
done in the presence of some judge or magistrate, that 
it might appear a voluntary act. The ceremony took 
place at his master’s door, and was the mark of per- 
petual servitude (Exod. xxi, G). >See Ear-ring. 

E VPS, Torching the, an ancient ceremony in 
the baptism of catechumens, which consisted in touch- 
ing their cars and saving Ephphatha, “ lie opened.” 
This was joined with the imposition of hands and with 
exorcism, and is supposed to have signified the open- 
ing of the understanding to receive instruction on the 
faith. Ambrose derives the custom from our Saviour's 
example in saying Ephphatha, when he cured the deaf 
and .dumb. The practice never became general. — 
llingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. x, ch. ii, § 13. 

EAPS of Corn (n3“'2Z, melduh', so called from 
being cut of, Deut. xxiii, 25; rbz'L 1 , shibbo'kth , from 
its growth, Gen. xli, 5 sq. ; Ruth ii, 2; Job xxiv, 24 ; 
ha. xvii, 5 ; karmel', prop, a eultivated./FcW, ns 

often ; hence produce or ears therefrom, i. e. grits. Lev. 
ii, 14; ’xxiii, 14; 2 Kings iv, 42; Z^ZX, ahib ' , green 
ears, Exod. ix, 31 ; Lev. ii, 14; rrrdyur;. Matt, xii, 1 ; 
Mark ii, 23; iv, 28; Luke vi, 1). The. remarkable 
productiveness of the cereals in Egypt has been pro- 
verbial from the days of Joseph (Gen. xli, 47 ) to the 
present time. Jowett states, in his Christian Research - 
es, that when in Egypt he plucked up at random a few 
stalks out of the thick grain-fields. “ We counted the 
number of stalks which sprouted from single grains 
of seed, carefully pulling to pieces each root in order 
to sec that it was one plant. ' The first had seven 
stalks, the next three, then eighteen, then fourteen. 


EARDLEY 

Each stalk would bear an ear.” Even greater num- 
bers than these are mentioned by Dr. Shaw, and still 
more by Pliny. It also often happens that one of the 
stalks will bear two cars, while each of these ears will 
shoot out into a number of lesser cars, affording a 
most plentiful increase. See Corn. 



Ears of Egyptian Corn: a, 'Wheat ( Triticum Sativum ); b , 
Millet ( IIolcus a 'oryhuvO- 


Bar, Earing, an old English agricultural term for 
ploughing, occurs in Gen. xlv, G; Exod. xxxiv, 21; 
1 Sam. viii, 12, as a translation of the term “ n 

( charish' , ploughing , as it is elsewhere rendered). (See 
Critica Biblica, iii, 210.) The same now obsolete word 
is used by our translators in Dent, xxi, 4; Isa. xxx, 
24, to represent the Heb. word ^IZZ {glad', to till, as it 
is often elsewhere rendered). Sec Agriculture; 
Egypt. So Shakspeare says “to ear the land that 
ha& some hopes to grow” ( Richard //, iii, 2). It is ety- 
mologically connected with the Latin aro. to plough. 
It is directly derived from the Anglo-Saxon erian, “to 
plough,” and is radically the same with harrow. 
What we call arable land was originally written ear- 
able land. The root ar is one of wide use in all the 
Indo-European languages (see Muller, Science of Lan- 
guage, p. 239). See Eloigh. 

Eardley, sir Culling, one of the founders of the 
Evangelical Alliance, was born in Hatfield in 1805. 
lie was a son of sir Culling Smith, baronet, succeeded 
to the baronetcy in 1829, and in 1847 assumed by roy- 
al license bis maternal name of Eardley, his mother 
having been a daughter of the last lord Eardley. He 
was educated at Oxford, but did not graduate, having 
scruples as to subscribing the oaths administered in 
taking the degree of A. I), lie represented Pontefract 
in one short Parliament previous to the Reform Hill, 
ami in 184G was an’ unsuccessful candidate for Edin- 
burgh in opposition to lord Macaulay, sir Culling bas- 
ing his claim chiefly on his opposition to the Mavnooth 


EARLY 


5 EARNEST 


grant. Sir Culling greatly distinguished himself for 
the active part he took in the work of the Evangelical 
Alliance and other religious associations, and the cause 
of religious toleration, in particular, found in him an 
indefatigable and most aetive champion. — Ann. Amer. 
Cyclopedia for 18G3, p. 358. 

Early, William, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was bom in New Jersey, Oct. 17, 1770; was converted 
at about nineteen ; entered the itinerancy in 1701 ; was 
superannuated in 1821, and died in June of the same 
year, having preached for thirty years. His first two 
years in the ministry were spent as missionary to New 
Brunswick, where he endured much hardship in zeal- 
ously laboring for his Master's eause. His after min- 
istry in Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland was 
very useful to the Church. — Min. of Conferences , i, 380. 

Early English, a title often given to the first 
pointed or Gothic style of architecture in England. 
It is also called the Lancet Style, and also (in the no- 
menclature of the Eeelesiologieal Society) the First 
Pointed Style. “It succeeded the Norman towards 
the end of the 12th century, and gradually merged 
into the Decorated at the end of the 13th. It first 
partook of the heaviness of the Norman, but soon man- 
ifested its own beautiful and peculiar characteristics. 
The arches are usually equilateral and lancet-shaped ; 
the doorways are often divided into two by a single 
shaft or small pier; the windows arc long and narrow, 
and, when gathered into a group, are frequently sur- 
mounted by a large arch, which springs from the ex- 
treme moulding of the window on each side. The 
space between this arch and the tops of the windows 
is often pierced with circles, or with trefoils or quatre- 
foils, which constituted the earliest form of tracery. 
Each window, however, is generally destitute of any 
tracery in itself” (Chambers, s. v.) The mouldings, 
says Parker, in general consist of alternate rounds and 
deeply-cut hollows, with a small admixture of fillets, 
producing a strong effect of 
light and shadow. “Circu- 
lar windows were more used 
in England during the prev- 
alence of this style than in 
either the decorated or per- 
pendicular, and fine specimens 
remain at York and Lincoln 
cathedrals, and at Beverley 
Minster. Groined ceilings 
are very common in this 
style; in general they have 
only eross springers and di- 
agonal ribs, with sometimes 
longitudinal and diagonal 
ribs at the apex of the vaults, 
Hargrave, cir. A. D. 1260 and good bosses of foliage at 
(Parker). the intersections. The pil- 

lars usually consist of small shafts arranged round a 
larger circular pier, but others of different kinds are 
to be found, and a plain 
oetagonal or circular pil- 
lar is common in country 
churches. The capitals 
eonsist of plain mould- 
ings, or are enriched with 
foliage ami sculpture 

characteristic of the 
style. The most preva- 
lent base lias a very close 
resemblance to the Attic 
Chapter House, Southwell, cir. L ase of t , nn Hents 

A. D. 1220 (Parker). ' / , , ancients, 

though the proportions 
are different, and the lower toms is worked with a con- 
siderably larger projection. The buttresses are often 
very bold and prominent, and are frequently carried 
up to the top of the building with but little diminu- 
tion, and terminate in acutely-pointed pediments, 



which, when raised above the parapet, produce in some 
degree the effect of pinnacles. Flying buttresses were 
first introduced in this style. Pinnacles are but spar- 
ingly used, and only towards the end of the style. 
The roofs appear always to have been high-pitched. 
The ornaments used in this style are by no means so 
various as in either of the others ; occasionally small 
roses or other flowers, and hunches of foliage, are 
carved at intervals in the hollow mouldings, but by 
far the most common and characteristic is the toothed 
ornament, which is often introduced in great profu- 
sion, and the hollows entirely filled with it. The foli- 
age is very remarkable for boldness of effect, and it is 
often so much undercut as to be connected with the 
mouldings only b} 1, the stalks and edges of the leaves ; 
there is frequently considerable stiffness in the mode 
in which it is combined, but the effect is almost always 
good: the prevailing leaf is a trefoil. Towards the 
latter part of the style eroekets were first introduced. 
The style may be said to begin in the later half of 
Richard the First’s reign, about which time St. Hugh 
began his cathedral. During the reign of king John 
the Early English style had obtained the complete 
mastery; but the reign of Henry III was the great 
period of the Early English style, which had now ob- 
tained perfection. That king himself and his brother 
Richard were great builders. The most perfect exam- 
ple of the style is perhaps Salisbury Cathedral. To- 
wards the end of the reign wc have examples, such 
ns the presbytery of Lincoln and the chapter-house of 
Salisbury, of what may be almost called the .Decora- 
ted style, though the mouldings and many of the de- 
tails are pure Early English. This kind of work may 
best be called Transitional.” — Parker, Glossary of Ar- 
chitecture, s. v. Sec Architecture. 

Earnest. ’Appal 3 mv is evidently the Hebrew I".-*.? 
( erabon , a pledge') in Greek* characters. It is a mer- 
cantile term which the Greeks and Romans appear to 
have adopted from the Phoenicians (kindred in dialect 
with the Hebrews) as the founders of commerce. 
With a slight alteration in the letters, but with none 
whatever in the sense, it becomes the Latin arrhabo , 
eontr. arrha; French arres ; English carles (in the old 
English expression Earl's or Ark's money) and earn- 
est. These three words occur in the Heb., Sept., and 
Vulg. in Gen. xxxviii, 17, 18, and in ver. 20, with the 
exception that the Yulg. there changes it to p’gnus. 
The use of these words in this passage clearly illus- 
trates their general import, which is that of an earnest 
or pledge, given and received, to assure the fulfilment 
of an engagement. Hesvehius explains appafiiov by 
irpoSofia, something given beforehand. The Hebrew 
word was used generally iorpkdye (Gen. xxxviii, 17), 
and in its cognate forms for surety (Prov. xvii, 18) and 




EAR-KING 


G 


EAR-RING 


hostage (2 Kings xiv, 14). The Greek derivative, 
however, acquired a more technical sense, as signify- 
ing the deposit paid by the purchaser on entering into 
an agreement for the purchase of anything (Suid. Lex. 
s. v.) This idea attaches to all the particular applica- 
tions of the word, as anything given by way of war- 
rant or security for the performance of a promise ; 
part of a debt paid as an assurance of paying the re- 
mainder; part of tiie juice of anything jiaid before- 
hand to confirm the bargain between buyer and sell- i 
er; part of a servant’s wages paid at the time of hir- 
ing, for the purpose of ratifying the engagement on 
both sides. The idea that the earnest is either to be 
returned upon the fulfilment of the engagement, or 
to be considered as part of the stipulation, is also in- 
cluded. A similar legal and technical sense attaches 
to earnest, the payment of which places both the ven- 
dor and purchaser in a position to enforce the carrying 
cut of the contract (Ulackstonc, ii, 30). The payment 
of earnest-money under the name of arrabon is still ' 
one of the common occurrences of Arab life. Similar 
customs of paying clown at the time of a contract 
‘■something to bind the bargain” have prevailed 
among all nations. (See Smith’s Dictionary of Class. 
Ant ip s. v. Arrha.) See Bargain. 

The word is used three times in the New Testament, 
but always in a figurative sense: in the first (2 Cor. i, 
22) it is applied to the gifts of the Holy Spirit which 
God bestowed upon the apostles , and by which he 
might he said to have hired them to be the servants 
of his Son ; and which were the earnest, assurance, 
and commencement of those far superior blessings 
which he would bestow on them in the life to come as 
the wages of their faithful services: in the two latter 
(2 Cor. v, 5; Ephes. i, 13, 14) it is applied to the gifts 
bestowed on Christians generally upon whom, after 
baptism, the ajiostles laid their hands, and which were 
to them an earnest of obtaining a heavenly habitation 
and inheritance, upon the supposition of their fidelity. 
This use of the term finely illustrates the augmented 
powers and additional capacities promised in a future 
state. Jerome, in his comment on the second passage, 
exclaims, “Si arrhabo tantus, quanta erit jtossessio — 
If the earnest was so great, how great must he the 
possession!” (See Ivype, Macknight, and Middleton 
on these jiassages ; Lc Moyne, Not. ad Var. Sacr. p. 
4G0-480.) In a spiritual sense, it denotes those gifts 
and graces which the Christian receives as the earnest 
and assurance of perfect happiness in a future world. 
(See Clauswitz, De A rrhabonc, Halle, 1747; Winzcr, 
Comment . hi loc. Lips. 183G ; Schulthess, in Keil and 
Tschirner’s A naleeten, II, i, 215 sq.) There is a 
marked distinction between pledge and earnest in this 
respect, that the latter is a part-payment, and there- 
fore implies the identity in kind of the deposit with the 
future full payment ; whereas a pledge may be some- 
thing of a totally different nature, as in Gen. xxxviii, 
to he resumed by the depositor when he has completed 
his contract. Thus the expression “ earnest of the 
Spirit” implies, beyond the idea of security, the iden- 
tity in kind, though not in degree, and the continuity 
of the Christian's privileges in this world and in the 
next. Moreover, a pledge is taken back when the 
promise which it guaranteed is fulfilled; but whatever 
is given as earnest, being a part in advance of the 
whole, is of course retained. See Pledge. 

Ear-ring stands in the Auth.Vers. as the render- 
ing of three Ileb. words of considerably different im- 
port. See Ping. 

1. b’X* ( agil ' , from its roundness ), properly a ring, 
specially an ear-ring (Num. xxxi, 50; Ezek. xvi, 12), 
nearly all the ancient ear-rings exhibited in the sculp- 
tures of Egypt and Pcrsejiolis being of a circular shape. 
These arc the ivwna sjx>ken of in Judith x, 4. 

2. -"2 (jie'eem, either from its perforating, or from 
its use to muzzle in the case of animals), a ring , spe- 


cially a nose-ring , but also an ear-ring , which two do 
not seem, therefore, to have materially differed in form. 
It most certainly denotes an car-ring in Gen. xxxv, 4 ; 
but in Gen. xxiv, 47 ; Prov. xi, 22 ; Isa. iii, 21, it sig- 
nifies a nose-jewel, and it is doubtful which of the two 
is intended in Judg. viii, 24, 25; Job xlii, 11. Sec 
Woman. Henec also we find 

3. "Cnb ( ’lach'asli , properly a whispering or incanta- 
tion ), a charm or remedy against enchantment, i. e. a 
superstitious ornament, often a gem inlaid in a plate 
or ring of jirecious metal, on which certain magic for- 
mulas v r ere inscribed, and which was worn suspended 
from the neck or in the ears of Oriental females (Isa. 
iii, 20). See Enchantment. 

The “collars” or “chains” spoken of in Judg. viii, 
2G ; Isa. iii, 10, may also have been a species of ear- 
drop. See those terms. 

No conclusion can be formed as to the shape of the 
Hebrew’ ear-rings except from the signification of the 
words employed, and from the analogy of similar orna- 
ments in ancient sculpture. The word E7:, by which 
these ornaments are usually described, is unfortunately 
ambiguous, originally referring to the nose-ring (as its 
root indicates), and thence transferred to the car-ring. 
The full expression for the latter is Z’Z 

(Gen. xxxv, 4), in contradistinction to E73 

(Gen. xxiv, 47). In the majority of cases, however, 
the kind is not specified, and the only clew T to the 
meaning is the context. The term occurs in this un- 
defined sense in Judg. yiii, 24; Job xlii, 11; Prov. 
xxv, 12 ; Hos. ii, 13. The material of which the ear- 
ring was made was generally gold (Exod. xxxii, 2), 
and its form circular, as we may infer from the name 
^ by which it is described (Num. xxxi, 50; Ezek. 
xvi, 12) : such was the shape usual in Egypt (Wilkin- 
son’s Egypt lews, iii, 370). They were worn by women 
and by youth of both sexes (Exod. 1. c.). It has been 
inferred from the passage quoted, and from Judg. viii, 
24, that they were not worn by men: these passages 
are, however, hv no means conclusive. In the former 
an order is given to the men in such terms that the}' 
could not be mentioned, though they might have been 
implicitly included; in the latter the amount of the 
gold is the jieeuliarity adverted to, and not the charac- 
ter of the ornament, a peculiarity which is still notice- 
able among the inhabitants of southern Arabia (Well- 
sted's Travels , i, 321). The mention of the sons in 
Exod. xxxii, 2 (which, however, is omitted in the 
Sept.), is in favor of their having been worn, and it 
appears unlikely that the Hebrews presented an ex- 
cejition to the almost universal practice of Asiatics, 
both in ancient and modern times. That they were 
not, however, usually worn by men is implied in Judg. 



EAR-RINGS 


7 


EARTH 


xiv, 24, where gold ear-rings are mentioned as dis- 
tinctive of the Ishmaelitish tribes. The men of Egypt 
also abstained from the use of ear-rings ; but how ex- 
tensively they were worn by men in other nations is 
shown by the preceding group of heads of different for- 
eigners, collected from the Egyptian monuments. By 
this also the usual forms of the most ancient orna- 
ments of this description are sufficiently displayed. 
Those worn by the Egyptian ladies were large, round, 
single hoops of gold, from one inch and a half to two 
inches and one third in diameter, and frequently of 
still greater size, or made of six single rings soldered 
together. Such probably was the round ugil of the 
Hebrews. Among persons of high or royal rank the 
ornament was sometimes in the shape of an asp, whose 
body was of gold set with precious stones. Silver ear- 
rings have also been found at Thebes, either plain 
hoops like the ear-rings of gold, or simple studs. The 



Ancient Egyptian Ear-rings. 

ancient Assyrians, both men and women, wore ear- 
rings of exquisite shape and finish, especially the 
kings, and those on the later monuments are generally 
in the form of a cross (Layard, Nineveh, ii, 234, 250). 



Ancient Assyrian Ear-rings. 

Lane thus describes those now worn by Egyptian fe- 
males : “ Of ear-rings (‘ halak') there is a great varie- 
ty. Some of the more usual kinds are here represen t- 


but with the sprig reversed. This pair of ear-rings is 
suited for a lady of wealth ; so also is the second, which 
resembles the former, excepting that it lias a large 
pearl in the place of the diamond drop and wreath, and 
that the diamonds of the sprig are set in gold. No. 3 
is a side view of the same. The next consists of gold, 
and an emerald pierced through the middle, with a 
small diamond above the emerald. Emeralds are gen- 
eral^ pierced in Egypt, and spoiled by this process as 
much as by not being cut with facets. The last is of 
gold, with a small ruby in the centre. The ruby is 
set in tine filigree-work, which is surrounded by fifteen 
balls of gold. To the seven lower balls are suspended 
as many circular bark" {Mod. Eg. ii, 404). The mod- 
ern Oriental ear-rings are more usually jewelled drops 
or pendents than circlets of gold, but sometimes they 
consist of a small round plate of silver or gold sus- 
pended from a small ring inserted into the ear (lvitto, 
Piet. Bible, note on Exod. xxxii, 2). This circular 
plate (about the size of a halfpenny) is either marked 
with fanciful figures or set with small stones. It is 
the same kind of thing which in that country (Meso- 
potamia) is worn as a nose-jewel, and in it we perhaps 
find the Hebrew car-ring, which is denoted by the 
same word that describes a nose-jewel. Jewels were 
sometimes attached to the rings : they were called 
(from r,IJ3, to drop), a word rendered in Judg. 
viii, 26, Sept. oppioKot, Vulg. monilia, A.Y. “collars 
and in Isa. iii, 19, KciOepa, torques , “chains.” The size 
of the ear-rings still worn in Eastern countries far ex- 
ceeds what is usual among ourselves (Harmer’s Obser- 
vations, iv, p. 311, 314), hence they formed a handsome 
present (dob xlii, 11) or offering to the service of God 
(Nuni. xxxi, 50). See Jewel. 

The ear-ring appears to have been regarded with 
superstitious reverence as an amulet : thus it is named 
in the Chaldee and Samaritan versions SO' 1 '!}?, a kolg 
thing; and in Isa. iii, 20 the word prop, amu- 

lets, is rendered in the A.V., after the Sept, and Vulg., 
car-rings. On this account they were surrendered 
along with the idols by Jacob’s household (Gen. xxxv, 
4). Chardin describes ear-rings, with talismanie fig- 
ures and characters on them, as still existing in the 
East (Brown’s Antiquities, ii, 305). See Amulet. 

Ears. See Eak. 

Earth, properly the name of the planet on which 
we dwell. See Geography. 

I. There are two Hebrew words thus rendered in 
the A. V., both of which are rendered by yi) in the 
Sept., and this yij is rendered by “earth,” “land,” 
“ground,” in the New Testament. See also Dust. 

1. Pi n 3‘l5<, adamah', is the earth in the sense of soil 
or ground, particularly as being susceptible of cultiva- 
tion ; hence the expression H'SU* lit. “ man of 

the ground ,” for an agriculturist (Gen. ix, 20). The 
earth supplied the elementary substance of which 
man’s body was formed, ar.d the terms adam and ada - 


ed. The first is of diamonds set in silver. It consists j ma ^ a y e brought into juxtaposition, implying an ety- 
of a drop suspended within a wreath hanging from a biological connection (Gen. ii, 7). See Adam. The 


sprig. The back of the silver is gilt, to prevent its 
being tarnished by perspiration. The specimen here 
given is that for the right ear ; its fellow is similar, 



Modern Egyptian Ear-rings (each one half the real size). 


opinion that man’s body was formed of earth prevailed 
among the Greeks (Hesiod, Op. et Di. 61, 70; Plato, 
Pep. p. 269), the Bomans (Virgil, Georg, ii, 341 ; Ovid, 
J ret. i, 82), the Egyptians (Diod. Sic. i, 10), 
and other ancient nations. It is evidently 
based on the observation of the material into 
which the body is resolved after death (Job 
x, 9; Eccl. xii, 7). The law prescribed 
earth as the material out of which altars 
were to be raised (Exod. xx, 24) ; Bahr 
(Symb. i, 488) sees in this a reference to the 
name adam: others, with more reason, com- 
pare the ara de respite of the IJomans (Ovid, 
Trist. v, 5, 9 ; Horace, Od. iii, 8, 4, 5), and 
view it as a precept of simplicity. Naa- 
man’s request for two mules’ burden of earth 


EARTH £ 

(2 Kings v, 17) was based on tlie idea that Jehovah, 
like the heathen deities, was a local god, and could 
be worshipped acceptably only on his own soil. See : 
Ground. 

2. More generally e'rcts, which is explained 

by Von Bohlen ( Introd . to Gen. ii, 0) as meaning ety- 
mologically the low in opposition to the high, i. e. the 1 
heaven. It is applied in a more or less extended 
sense: 1, to the whole world (Gen. i, 1); 2, to land as i 
opposed to sea (Gen. i, 10) ; 3, to a country (Gen. xxi, 
32) ; 1, to a plot of ground (Gen. xxiii, 15); and, 5, to 
the ground on which a man stands (Gen. xxxiii, 3) ; 
also, in a more general view, 6, to “ the inhabitants of 
the earth" (Gen. vi, 11 ; xi, 1); 7, to heathen countries, 
as distinguished from the land of Israel, especially 
during the theocracy; i. e. all the rest of the world 
excepting Israel (2 Kings xviii, 25; 2 Chron. xiii, 0, 
etc.); particularly the empire of Chaldtea and Assyria 
(Ezra i, 2); 8, in the New Testament especially, “ the 
earth” appears in our translation as applied to the land 
of JiuUea. As in many of these passages it might 
seem as if the habitable globe were intended, the use 
of so ambiguous a term as “the earth” should have 
been avoided, and the original rendered by “the 
land,” as in Lev. xxv, 23; Isa. x, 23, and elsewhere. 
This is the sense which the original bears in Matt, 
xxiii, 35 ; xxvii, 45 ; Mark xv, 33 ; Luke i v, 25 ; xxi, 
23 ; Horn, ix, 28 ; James v, 17. 9. Finally, in a spir- 

itual sense, the word is employed (in the N. T.) in con- 
trast with heaven, to denote things earthly and carnal 
(John iii, 31 ; Colos. iii, 1, 2). See Wemyss, Symbol. 
Diet. s. v. ; conip. World. 

To demand earth and water was a custom of the an- 
cient Persians, by which they required a people to ac- 
knowledge their dominion ; Nebnchodonosor, in the 
Greek of Judith (ii, 7), commands Holofcrnes to march 
against the people of the West, who had refused sub- 
mission, and to declare to them that they were to pre- 
pare earth and water. Darius ordered his envoys to 
demand earth and water of the Scythians; and Mega- 
bysus required the same of Amyntas, king of Macedo- 
nia, in the name of Darius. Polybius and Plutarch 
notice this custom among the Persians. Some believe 
that these symbolical demands denoted dominion of 
the earth and sea; others, that the earth represented 
the food received from it, corn and fruits ; the water, 
drink, which is the second part of human nourishment. 
Ecelns. xv, 1G, in much the same sense, says, “The 
Lord hath set fire and water before thee ; stretch forth 
thy hand unto whether thou wilt; and eh. xxxix, 2G, 
“ Fire and water are the most necessary things to 
life.” Fire and water were considered by the ancients 
as the first principles of the generation, birth, and 
preservation of man. Proscribed persons were de- 
barred from their use; as, on the contrary, wives in 
their nuptial ceremonies were obliged to touch them. 
See Element. 

II. The idea which the ancient Hebrews had of the 
figure of the earth can only be conjectured from inci- 
dental hints oeeasionlly given in Scripture (Isa. xl, 22; 
Prov. viii, 27 ; Job xxvi, 10 ; l’sa. xxiv, 2 ; exxxvi, 6). 
From these passages, taken together, says b’osenmiiller 
(Alterthnmsk. I, i, 133 sq.), we obtain the notion of the 
earth’s disk as circular, rising out of the water, and 
surrounded with the ocean, the heaven being spread 
over it as a canopy. Though floating free in the 
boundless immensity of space, yet, through the Crea- 
tor's might, it remains firmly fixed, without moving 
(1 Chron. xvii, 30; Psn. xciii, 1 ; civ, 5; cxix, 90). It 
is rather inconclusive, however, to infer the popular 
notions of the earth’s figure from what may have been 
nothing more than the bold imagery of poets. Some 
have supposed that so long as the Hebrews were a no- 
madic race, they conceived of the earth as resembling 
a round tent, with the expanse as* its covering; but 
that in later times, when domiciled in Palestine, they 


EARTHQUAKE 

spoke of it as a splendid palace resting upon its many 
pillars (2 Sam. xxii, 8; Psa. Ixxv, 3; civ. 5; Prov. 
viii, 25-29). The Greek and Poinan writers (llesiod, 
Theogn. 11G sq. ; Ovid, Alet am. i, 5 sq. ; comp. Euscb. 
Preep. Ev. i, 10 [Sanchoniathon, ed. Orelli, p. 9 sq.]; 
Zendavesta, i, 170 sq.) also vary in their representa- 
tions on this point, describing the earth sometimes as 
an oblong square, sometimes as a cube, sometimes as 
a pyramid, sometimes as a chlamys , or outspread man- 
tle. (See Eichhorn, Urgesch. ed. Galder, Nftrnb. 1790 ; 
Doderleiu Rel.-Unterr. vii, 59 sq. ; Beck, Weltgesch. i, 
99 sq. ; Bauer, llebr. Mythol. i, G3 sq. ; Dc Wette, 
Bill. Dogm. p. 76 sq. ; Baumgarten-Crusius, Bill. The- 
olog. p. 204 sq. ; Colin, Bill. Theol. i, 1G6; Mignot, in 
the Memoires de V A cad. des Jnscr. xxxiv, 352 sq. ; An- 
quetil, Oupnekhat , i, 409 sq. ; Johannscn, Die kosmog . 
Ansichten d. Inder u. llebr. Altona, 1833; Dornedden, 
in Eichhorn’s Bill, x, 284 sq., 548 sq. ; Gessner, in the 
Commentt. Soc. Goett. vol. ii ; Corrodi, Beitr. zum rern. 
Denken , xviii, 15 sq. ; Link, Uncelt , i, 2G8 sq. ; Wag- 
ner, Geschichte d. Urgesch. p. 49G sq. ; Umbreit, in the 
Stud. n. Kritiken, 1839, p. 189 sq. ; Ballenstedt, Die l r v - 
welt, 3d ed. Qnedlinb. 1819 ; Von Schrank, Physik.- 
theolog. Erkldr. der 6 Schopfimgstage, Augsburg, 1829 ; 
Beke, Researches in Primeval History , London, 1834 ; 
Burton, View of the Creation , London, 1836: Tholuck, 
Literar. Anzeig. 1833, No. 67-78 ; Keil, apologia Mos. 
traditionis, Dorpat, 1839 ; Benner, Ue censura Longini 
in rerba Gen. i, 3, Giess. 1739; Burmeister, Gesch. d . 
Schbpfung, Lips. 1843; Waterkeyn, Kosmos llieros 
Grimma, 1846 ; Goguet, Urspr. d. Gesetze , ii, 227.) See 
Cosmogony. 

Earthen Vessel or Earthenware. See Pot- 
tery. 

Earthquake (-^, ra'ash , a shaking , crux/ tor). 
The proximate cause of earthquakes, though bv no 
means accurately defined, seems referable to the action 
of internal beat or fire. That the earth was once sub- 
ject to the action of a vast internal power springing 
probably from the development of subterranean or 
central heat, the elevations and depressions, and the 
| generally scarred and torn character of its exterior 
make sufficiently evident. A power similar in kind, 
but more restricted in degree, is still at work in the 
bowels of the earth, and occasionally breaks down all 
barriers and devastates certain parts of the world. 
There is good reason for holding that earthquakes are 
1 closely connected with volcanic agency. Both proba- 
bly spring from the same cause, and may be regarded 
as one mighty influence operating to somewhat dis- 
similar results. Volcanic agency, therefore, is an in- 
i dication of earthquakes, and traces of the first may be 
taken as indications of the existence (either present or 
, past, actual or possible) of the latter. (See Hitch- 
cock’s Geology , p. 234 sq.) The manifestation of these 
awful phenomena is restricted in its range. Accord- 
ingly, geologists have laid down certain volcanic re- 
gions or bands within which this manifestation takes 
place. Over these regions various traces of volcanic 
agency are found, such as either gaseous vapors, or 
hot springs, or bituminous substances, and in some 
instances (occasionally) active volcanoes. Several 
sources of bitumen are found on the Tigris, in the Per- 
sian mountains, near the Kharirn, and at llushive, as 
well as along the Euphrates. At Hit, especially, on 
tiu- last-mentioned river, it exists on a very large scale, 
and, having been much used from the earliest times, 
seems inexhaustible. Abundant traces of it are also 
to be seen amid the ruins and over the entire vicinity 
of llillah, the ancient Babylon. Syria and Palestine 
abound in volcanic appearances. Between the river 
Jordan and Damascus lies a volcanic tract. The en- 
tire country about the Dead Sea presents indubitable 
tokens of volcanic agency. Accordingly, these places 
come within one of the volcanic regions. The chief 
j of these are, (1) that which extends from the Caspian 


EARTHQUAKE 9 EARTHQUAKE 


Sea to the Azores ; (2) from the Aleutian Isles to the 
Molueeas; (3) that of the Andes ; (4) the African ; (5) 
the leelandie. Syria and Palestine are embraecd with- 
in the first band, and these countries have not un fre- 
quently been subjeet to earthquakes. (See Stanley, 
Palest, p. 279, 283, 285, 3G3 ; Volnev, Trav. i, 281 ; Iiu- 
segger, Reisen , p. 205). See Palestine. 

That earthquakes were among the extraordinary 
phenomena of Palestine in ancient times is shown in 
their being an element in the poetical imagery of the 
Hebrews, and a source of religious admonition and 
devout emotion. An earthquake, when great, over- 
turns and changes the surface of the earth, subverting 
mountains, hills, and rocks, sinking some parts, eleva- 
ting others, altering the course of rivers, making ponds 
and lakes on dry lands, and drying up those that al- 
ready existed ; and is therefore a proper symbol of 
great revolutions or changes in the government or po- 
litical world (Heb. xii, 26). See Wemyss, Symbolical 
Diet. s. v. In Psalm xviii, 7, we read, “ Then the 
earth shook and trembled ; the foundations also of the 
hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth” 
(eomp. Hab. iii, 6 ; Nah. i, 5 ; Isa. v, 25). It was not 
an unnatural transition that any signal display of the 
will, sovereignty, or goodness of Providence should 
be foretold in connection with, and accompanied as by 
other signs in the heavens above- or on the earth be- 
low, so by earthquakes and their fearful concomitants 
(see Joel ii, 28; Matt, xxiv, 7, 29). Earthquakes are 
not unfrequently attended with fissures of the earth’s 
surface; instances of this are recorded in eonneetion 
with the destruction of Korah and his company (Num. 
xvi, 32 ; comp. Josephus, Ant. iv, 3, 3), and at the time 
of our Lord’s death (Matt, xxvii, 51) ; the former may 
be paralleled by a similar occurrence atOppido, in Ca- 
labria, A. I). 1783, where the earth opened to the ex- 
tent of 500 and a depth of more than 200 feet, and 
again by the sinking of the bed of the Tagus at Lis- 
bon, in which the quay was swallowed up (Pfaff, 
Schopfungsgesch. p. 115). These depressions are some- 
times on a very large scale ; the subsidence of the val- 
ley of Siddim, at the southern extremity of the Dead 
Sea, may be attributed to an earthquake. Similar de- 
pressions have occurred in many districts, the most re- 
markable being the submersion and subsequent re-ele- 
vation of the temple of Serapis at Puteoli. The fre- 
quency of earthquakes about the Dead Sea is testified 
in the name Bela (Gen. xiv, 2; eomp. Jerome ad Lsa. 
xv). See Sodom. The awe which an earthquake 
never fails to inspire, “ conveying the idea of some 
universal and unlimited danger” (Humboldt's Knsmos , 
i, 212), rendered it a fitting token of the presence of 
Jehovah (1 Kings xix, 11) ; henee it is frequently no- 
ticed in connection with his appearance (Judg. v, 4 ; 2 
Sam. xxii,8; Psa. Ixxvii, 18 ; xevii,4; eiv, 32; Amos 
viii, 8 ; Hab. iii, 10). Earthquakes, together with thun- 
der, lightning, and other fearful phenomena of nature, 
form no small portion of the stock of materials which 
the interpreters of the German rationalistic school em- 
ploy with no less liberality than confidence in order 
to explain after their maimer events recorded in the 
Scriptures which have been commonly referred to the 
immediate agency of God. Hezel, Paulus, and other 
miraele- exploders would, but for this resource, find 
their *‘ occupation gone.” But, if there is reason for 
the statement that truth is sometimes stranger than 
fiction, it may with equal propriety be observed that 
their “ natural” eauses are most unnatural, unlikely, 
and insufficient. See Miracles. 

The first visitation of the kind recorded as having 
happened to Palestine was in the reign of Aliab (about 
B.C. 905), when Elijah (1 Kings xix, II, 12) was di- 
rected to go forth and stand upon the mountain before 
Jehovah : “And behold Jehovah passed by, and a great 
and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in 
pieces the rocks before Jehovah ; but Jehovah was not 
in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake ; but 


Jehovah was not in the earthquake: and after the 
earthquake a fire; but Jehovah was not in the fire: 
and after the fire a still small voiee.” A terrible 
earthquake took place “in the clays of Uzziah, king 
of Judah” (B.C. 783), which Josephus (Ant. ix, 10, 4) 
says “ shook the ground, and a rent was made in the 
Temple, so that the rays of the sun shone through it, 
which, falling upon the king's face, struck him with 
the leprosy,” a punishment which the historian as- 
scribes to the wrath of God consequent on Uzziah’s 
usurpation of the priest’s office. That this earthquake 
was of an awful character may be learned from the 
fact that Zechariah (xiv, 5) thus speaks respecting it: 
“ Ye shall flee as ye fled from before the earthquake in 
the days of Uzziah, king of Judah:” and it likewise 
appears from Amos (i, 1) that the event was so strik- 
ing, and left such deep impressions on men’s minds, 
as to become a sort of epoch from whieli to date and 
reckon; the prophet’s words are, “two years before 
the earthquake.” See Uzziah. From Zeeh. xiv, 4 
we are led to infer that a great convulsion took plaee 
at this time in the Mount of Olives, the mountain be- 
ing split so as to leave a valley between its summits. 
Josephus records something of the sort, but his account 
is by no means elcar, for his words ( rov bpovQ enrop- 
payljuai rb ij/uav rob Kara rt)v Ovatv') can hardly 
mean the western half of the mountain , as Whiston 
seems to think, but the half of the western mountain , i. 
e. of the. Mount of Evil Counsel, though it is not clear 
why this height particularly should be termed the 
western mountain. We cannot but think that the two 
accounts have the same foundation, and that the Mount 
of Olives was really afteeted by the earthquake. Hit- 
zig (Comm, in Zech.') suggests that the name ^2 

“ corruption may have originated at this time, the 
rolling down of the side of the hill, as described by Jo- 
sephus, entitling it to be described as the destroying 
mountain , in the sense in whieli the term occurs in Jcr. 
li, 25. See Azal. 

The only important or clear earthquake mentioned 
in the New Testament (except the doubtful one of 
Matt, xxviii, 2) is that which happened at the cruci- 
fixion of the Saviour of mankind (Matt, xxvii, 50-1 ; 
eomp. Luke xxiii, 44-5 ; Mark xv, 33). The concomi- 
tant darkness is most naturally held to have been an 
attendant on the earthquake. Earthquakes arc not 
seldom attended by accompaniments which obscure 
the light of day during (as in this case from the sixth 
to the ninth hour, that is, from 32 o'clock at noon to 3 
o’clock P.M.) several hours. If this is the fact, then 
the record is consistent with natural phenomena, and 
the darkness which sceptics have pleaded against 
speaks actually in favor of the credibility of the Gos- 
pel. Now it is well known to naturalists that such 
obscurations are by no means uncommon. It may be 
enough to give the following instances. A very re- 
markable volcanic eruption took plaee on the 19th of 
January, 1835, in the voleano of Cosegiiina, situated in 
the Bay of Fonseea (usually called the coast of Con- 
ehagua), in Central America. The eruption was pre- 
ceded by a rumbling noise, accompanied by a column 
of smoke which issued from the mountain, increasing 
until it assumed the form and appearance of a large 
dense cloud, which, when viewed at the distance of 
thirty miles, appeared like an immense plume of feath- 
ers, rising with considerable velocity, and expanding 
in every direction. In the eoursc of the two follow- 
ing days several shoeks of earthquakes were felt; the 
morning of the 22d rose fine and eleai, but, a dense 
cloud of a pyramidal form was observed in the direc- 
tion of the voleano. This gradually ascended, and by 
11 o’clock A.M. it had spread over the -whole firma- 
ment, entirely obscuring the light of day, the darkness 
equalling in intensity that of the most clouded night : 
this darkness continued with little intermission for 
three days; during the whole time a fine black pow- 


EAST 


10 


EAST 


dcr continued to fall. This darkness extended over ’ of the sun, and strictly corresponds with the Gr. ava- 
half of Central America. The convulsion was such as | roAi), and the Lat. oriens. It is used tropically for 
to change the outline of the coast, turn the course of a ( the east indefinitely (Psa. ciii, 12; Dan. viii, 9 ; Amos 
river, and form two new islands. Precisely analogous | viii, 12, etc.); also definitely for some place in rela- 
phenomcna were exhibited on occasions of earthquakes i tion to others, thus, “The land of the east,” i. e. the 
that took place at Cartago, in Central America, when country lying to the east of Syria, the Elvmais (Zech. 
there prevailed a dense black fog, which lasted for viii, 7); “the east of Jericho” (Josh, iv, 19); “the 


three days (Recreations in Physical Geography, p. 382). 
In the case of the volcanic eruption which overwhelm- 
ed Herculaneum and Pompeii (A.D. 79), we learn from 
the younger Pliny that a dense column of vapor was 
first seen rising vertically from Vesuvius, and then 
spreading itself out laterally, so that its upper portion 
resembled the head, and its lower the trunk of a pine. 
This black cloud was. pierced occasionally by flashes 
of fire as vivid as lightning, succeeded by darkness 
more profound than night, and ashes fell even at Mi- 
senum. These appearances agree perfectly with those 
witnessed in more recent eruptions, especially those of 
Monte Xuovo in 1538, and Vesuvius in 1822. Indeed 
earthquakes appear to exert a very marked influence 
on our atmosphere : among other effects, Lyell (Prin- 
ciples of Geology, i, 400) enumerates sudden gusts of 
wind, interrupted by dead calms ; evolution of electric 
matter or of inflammable gas from the soil, with sul- 
phureous and mephitic vapors ; a reddening of the 
sun’s disk, and a haziness in the air often continued for 
months (Joel ii, 30, 31). Other interpreters, however, 
understand the earthquake in Matt, xxvii, 54 to have 
been merely some special and supernatural operation 
of God, in attestation of the marvellous work that was 
in progress, producing a tremulous motion in the im- 
mediate locality, and in connection therewith a sensible 
consternation in the minds of the immediate actors; 
lienee there is no other historical allusion to it. This 
view is confirmed by its being in the second case con- 
nected with the angel’s descent (Matt, xxviii, 2; comp. 
1 Sam. xiv, 15). Like the one that occurred at Phil- 
ippi (Acts xvi, 1G), it is perhaps to be regarded as a 
somewhat exceptional phenomenon, wrought for a spe- 
cific purpose, and consequently very limited as to its 
sphere of action. Nor does it appear from any notices 
cf Scripture that the phenomena of earthquakes, in the 
ordinary and extensive sense of the term, played more 
than a very occasional and subordinate part in the 
scenes and transactions of sacred history. Treatises 
in Latin on the earthquake at our Saviour’s passion 
have been written by Berger (Vitcb. 1710), Posner 
(Jen. 1072), Schmcrbauch (Lubben. 175G), Schmid (Jon. 
1G83). See Darkness. 

An earthquake devastated Judaea some years (31) 
before the birth of our Lord, at the time of the battle 
of Actium, which Josephus (Ant. xv, 52) reports was 
such “as had not happened at any other time, which 
brought great destruction upon the cattle in that coun- 
try. About ten thousand men also perished by the 
fall of houses.” Jerome writes of an earthquake 
which, in the time of his childhood (about A.D. 315), 
destroyed 1‘abbath Moab (Jerome on Isaiah, xv). ' The 
writers of the Middle Ages also speak of earthquakes 
in Palestine, stating that they were not only formida- 
ble, but frequent. Tn 1834 an earthquake shook Jeru- 
salem, and injured the chapel of the nativity at Bethle- 
hem. In 1837 (Jan. 1) Jerusalem and its vicinity were 
visited by severe shocks of earthquake, yet the city 
remains without serious injury from these subterrane- 
an causes. This last earthquake totally overthrew the 
village of Safed, in Galilee (Thomson, Land and Booh, 
i, 428 sq.). For a full account of these and others, af- 
fecting various parts of Syria, see Kitto, Phys. Hist, 
of Palest, vol. ii, ch. iv. Comp. Bulenger, in Graevii 
Thesaur. v, 515 sq. ; Forbiger, Ilandb. d. alt. Geogr . i, 
G3G sq. 

Bast is the Tendering of the following terms in the 
English Bible. See Geography. 

1. n“T"C, mizrach ', properly denotes the rising , sc. 


east gate” (Nell. iii, 29), and adverbially “eastward” 
(1 Chron. vii, 28 ; ix, 24, etc.). Sometimes the full 
expression sun-rise , is used (indefinitely, 

Isa. xli, 25; definitely, Judg. xi, 18). See below. 

2. CnjD, ke'dcm (with its modifications), properly 
means what is in front of before (comp. Psa. cxxxix, 

5 ; Isa. ix, 11 [12]). As the Hebrews, in pointing out 
the quarters, looked towards the east, D’lj^ybre, came 
to signify the cast, as behind , the west, and 

the right hand , the south. In this sense kedem 
is used (ri) indefinitely, Gen. xi, 2; xiii, 11, etc.; (5) 
relatively, Nimi. xxxiv, 11, etc.; (c) definitely, to de- 
note the regions lying to the east of Palestine (Gen. 
xxix, 1 ; Num. xxiii, 7 ; Isa. ix, 11 ; sometimes in the 
full form, “ land of the cast ” (Gen xxv, G), 

the inhabitants of which are denominated 
“ children of the east.” See Bene-Kedem. 

Sometimes kedem and mizrach are used together (e. 
g. Exod. xxvii, 13; Josh, xix, 12), which is, after all, 
not so tautological as it appears to be in our transla- 
tion “on the east side eastward.” Bearing in mind 
this etymological distinction, it is natural that kedem 
should be used when the four quarters of the world 
are described (as in Gen. xiii, 14 ; xxviii, 14 ; Job xxiii, 
8, 9 ; Ezek. xlvii, 18 sq.), and mizrach when the cast 
is only distinguished from the west (Josh, xi, 3 ; Psa. 
1, 1; ciii, 12; cxiii, 3; Zech. viii, 7), or from some 
other one quarter (Dan. viii, 9 ; xi, 44 ; Amos viii, 12) ; 
exceptions to this usage occur in Psa. evii, 3, and Isa. 
xliii, 5, each, however, admitting of explanation. 
Again, kedem is used in a strictly geographical sense 
to describe a spot or country immediately before an- 
other in an easterly direction ; hence it occurs in such, 
passages as Gen. ii, 8; iii, 24; xi, 2; xiii, 11: xxv, 
G; and hence the subsequent application of the term, 
as a proper name (Gen. xxv, 6 , eastward , unto the land 
of Kedeni), to the lands lying immediately eastward of 
Palestine, viz. Arabia, Mesopotamia, Babylonia, etc.; 
on the other hand, mizrach is used of the^/br east with 
a less definite signification (Isa. xli, 2, 25; xliii, 5; 
xlvi, 11). In describing aspect or direction , the terms 
are used indifferently (comp, kedem in Lev. i, 1G, and 
Josh, vii, 2, with mizrach in 2 Chron. v, 12, and 1 Chron. 
v, 10). See AVest, etc. 

“ The East” is the name given by the ancient He- 
brews to a certain region, without any regard to its 
relation to the eastern part of the heavens, compre- 
hending not only Arabia Deserta and the lands of 
Moab and Ammon, which really lay to the east of Pal- 
estine, but also Armenia, Assyria, Mesopotamia, Bab- 
ylonia, and Chaldaea, which were situated rather to 
the north than the east of Judaea. Its geographical 
boundaries include Syria, the countries beyond the 
Tigris and Euphrates, and the shores of the Indian 
Ocean and of the Arabian Gulf. The name given to 
this entire region by the Hebrews was 
(dvciroXif), or the land of Kedem or East ; by the Bab- 
ylonians it was called or ’Apafiia, Arabia. Its 
miscellaneous population were called by the former 
“sons of the East,” or Orientals , and by the latter 
either Arabians, or the “people of the AVest.” The 
Jews themselves also apply to them the Babylonian 
name in some of their books written after the Captiv- 
ity (2 Chron. xxii, 1 ; Neb. ii, 9). The Arabs ancient- 
ly denominated themselves, and do to this day, by 
either of these names. To this region belong the 
“ kings of the East” (Isa. xix, 11 ; Jer. xxv, 19-25, 


EAST 


11 


EAST 


Heb.). The following passages may suffice as in- 
stances showing the arbitrary application of the term 
“east” to this region. Balaam says that Balak, king 
of Moab, had brought him from the mountains of the 
east (Num. xxiii, 7), i. e. from Pethor on the Euphra- 
tes. Isaiah places Syria in the east (ix, 11), “ the Syr- 
ians from the east” (bishop Eowth). The distinction 
seems evident in Gen. xxix, 1, “Jacob came unto the 
land of the children of the East.” It occurs again in 
Judg. vi, 3, “Even the children of the East came 
against them” (Sept, ot viol dvaroXlov ; Vulg. ctcteri 
Orientalium ncitionuni). The preceding facts enable us 
to account for the prodigious numbers of persons some- 
times assembled in war against the Israelites (Judg. 
vi, 5; vii, 12), “and the children of the East were like 
grasshoppers for multitude,” and for the astonishing 
carnage recorded (Judg. viii, 10), “there fell a hun- 
dred and twenty thousand men that drew the sword.” 
It seems that the inhabitants of this region were dis- 
tinguished for their proficiency in the arts and sciences 
(comp. 1 Kings i, 4, 30), and were addicted in the time 
of Isaiah to superstition (Isa. xxvi). See Arabia. 

The east seems to have been regarded as symbolical 
of distance (Isa. xlvi, 11), as the land stretched out in 
these directions without any known limit. In Isa. ii, 
0, the house of Jacob is said to be “replenished from 
the east” (u'lj^'2 IsA^), which some explain as refer- 
ring to witchcraft, or the arts of divination practised in 
the East, while others, with greater probability, under- 
stand it of the men of the East, the diviners and sooth- 
sayers who came from the east (comp. Job xv, 2) ; the 
correct text may, however, be EpJ? *2, with sorcery , 
which gives a better sense (Gcsen. fkesaur. p. 1193). 
See Witchcraft. 

3. 'A varoXy, sun -rise. This word usually occurs in 
the plural, and without the article. When, therefore, 
we read, as in Matt, ii, 1, 2, that u /idyoi cittu dvaro- 
Xu>v came to Jerusalem saying we have seen his star 
iv ry dvaroXy,” we are led to suspect some special 
reason for such a variation. The former phrase is 
naturally rendered as equivalent to Oriental Magi, 
and the indefinite expression is to be explained by ref- 
erence to the use of ClJD in the Old Test. The latter 
phrase offers greater difficulty. If it be taken = “ in 
the east,” the questions arise why the singular and 
not the customary plural should be used ? why tiie ar- 
ticle should be added ? and why the wise men should 
have seen the star in the east when the place where 
the child was lay to the west of their locality (unless, 
indeed, tv ry avaroXy relates to the star, and not 
the wise men themselves, to whom it seems to refer). 
Pressed by the difficulties thus suggested, the majority 
of recent interpreters take tv ry dvaroXy literally =in 
its rise , and trace a correspondence of this with the 
Tt\Qtii; of the preceding clause : they inquired for the 
child, whom they knew to be born, because they had 
seen the Hsing of his star, the signal of his birth. Al- 
ford objects to this, that for such a meaning we should 
expect avrov , if not in ver. 2, certainly in ver. 9; but 
the construction falls under the case where the article, 
by indicating something closely associated with the 
subject, supersedes the use of the demonstrative pro- 
noun. In the Sept. dvaroXal is used both for kedem 
and m’zrach. It should be observed that the expres- 
sion is, with but few exceptions (Dan. viii, 9 ; Rev. xxi, 
13; comp, vii, 2; xvi. 12, from which it would seem 
to have been John’s usage to insert ifXiou ), dvciruXal 
(Matt, ii, 1 ; viii, 11 ; xxiv, 27 ; Luke xiii, 29), and not 
dvaroXy. It is hardly possible that Matthew would 
use the two terms indifferently in succeeding verses 
(ii, 1, 2), particularly as he adds the article to dvaro- 
X /'/, which is invariably absent in other cases (comp. 
Rev. xxi, 13). lie seems to imply a definiteness in 
the locality — that it was the country called Clp, or 
avaroXi) (comp, the modern Anatolia ), as distinct from 


the quarter or point of the compass ( dvaroXal ) in 
which it lay. In confirmation of this, it may be no- 
ticed that in the only passage where the article is pre- 
fixed to kedem (Gen. x, 30), the term is used for a def- 
inite and restricted locality, namely, Southern Arabia. 
— Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Star in the East. 

The only other terms rendered “east” in the Scrip- 
tures are the following : rVlC^n (charsutli , pottery ), 
applied to a gate of Jerusalem, improperly called “ cast 
gate” (Jer. xix, 2), but meaning the potters’ gate (q. 
v.), i. e. one which led to the “potters’ field” in the 
valley of Hinnom (see Strong’s Harmony and Exposi- 
tion , Appendix ii, p. 11). See Jerusalem. JOT'S 
( motsa a going forth , as it is elsewhere usually ren- 
dered), .applied poetically to sun-me (l’sa. lxxv, 6). 
For “east-wind,” “east-sea,” see below. 

EAST, Turning towards the. 1. The earliest 
churches faced eastward ; at a later period (4th or 5th 
century) this was reversed, and the sacramental table 
was placed at the east, so that worshippers facing it 
I in their devotions were turned towards the cast. The 
Jewish custom was to turn to the west in prayer. Soc- 
rates says ( Eccles . Ilist. bk. vi, ch. v) that the church of 
Antioch had its altar on the west, i. e. towards Jerusa- 
lem. 2. Many fanciful reasons are assigned, both by 
ancient writers and by modern ritualists, for worship- 
ping towards the east. Among them are the follow- 
ing: “ (1.) The rising sun was the symbol of Christ, the 
Sun of Righteousness ; and, since people must worship 
towards some quarter of the heavens, they chose that 
which led them to Christ by symbolical representa- 
tion (Tertullian, Apol. i, 1G). (2.) The east was the 

place of paradise, our ancient habitation and country, 
which we lost in the first Adam by the Fall, and 
whither we hope to be restored again, as to our native 
abode and rest, in the second Adam, Christ our Sav- 
iour ( Apost . Const, lib. ii, c. 57). (3.) The east was con- 
sidered the most honorable part of the creation, being 
the seat of light ami brightness. (4.) Christ made his 
appearance on earth in the east, and thence ascended 
into heaven, and there will appear again at the last 
day. The authority of many of the fathers has been 
adduced by ecclesiastical writers in support of these 
views. The author of the Questions to A ntiochus, un- 
der the name of Athanasius, gives this account of the 
practice : 1 We do not,’ says he, ‘ worship towards the 
east, as if we thought God any way shut up in those 
parts of the world, but because God is in himself the 
true Light. In turning, therefore, towards the created 
light, we do not worship it, but the great Creator of it ; 
taking occasion from that most excellent element to 
adore the God who was before all elements and ages 
in the world. ’ A little attention to geography' shows 
that these are nothing but fancies. That part of the 
heavens, for example, which is cast at six o’clock in 
the morning, is west at six o’clock in the evening, so 
that we cannot at both these periods pray towards 
‘that quarter of the heavens where (according to 
Wheatly) God is supposed to have his peculiar resi- 
dence of glory,’ unless, if we turn to the cast at morn- 
ing prayer, we turn to west at even song. Not only 
so, but two individuals on opposite sides of the globe, 
though both suppose that they are praying with their 
faces to the east, are, so far as it respects each other, 
or any particular ‘quarter of the heavens,’ praying in 
opposite directions, one east and the other west, one 
looking towards that ‘quarter,’ the other away from 
it. So that all such reasons are rendered futile by the 
geographical fact that, owing to the rotation of the 
earth on its axis, every degree of longitude becomes 
during the twenty-four hours both east and west.” 

3. Turning East in Baptism. — In the ancient bap- 
tisteries were two apartments : first, a porch or ante- 
room (jryoavXioQ o7/coc), where the catechumens made 
their renunciations of Satan and confessions of faith ; 
and the inner room (tawrtQOQ ot/coc), where the cere* 


EASTBURN 


monv of baptism was performed. When tlie catechu- 
mens were brought into the former of these they were 
placed with their faces to the west, and were then 
commanded to renounce Satan with some gesture and 
rite expressing an indignation against him, as by 
stretching out their hands, or folding them, or strik- 
ing them together, and sometimes by spitting at him 
as if he were present. The words generally used by 
the candidate were, “ 1 renounce Satan, and his works, 
and his pomps, and his service, and his angels, and 
his inventions, and all things that belong to him, or 
that are subject to liim.” The reason assigned by 
Cyril ( Catech . My stag.') for standing with the face to 
the west during this adjuration is that the west is the 
place of darkness ; and Satan is darkness, and his 
kingdom is darkness. That the candidate turned his 
face to the east, and made his solemn confession of 
obedience to Christ, generally in these words, “ I give 
m3 r self up to thee, O Christ, to be governed by thy 
laws.” This was called promissam, pactum, or votuni — 
a promise, a covenant, a vow. The face was turned 
to the. east because, as Cyril tells his disciples, since 
they had renounced the devil, the paradise of God, 
which was planted in the east, and whence our first 
parents were driven for their transgression into ban- 
ishment, was now laid open to them. — Gingham, Orig. 
Eccles* bk. xi, eh. vii, § 4 ; Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

4. It is “a curious instance of the inveteracy of 
popular custom that in Scotland, where everything 
that savored of ancient usage was set aside as popish 
by the reformers, the practice of buying with the feet 
to the east was maintained in the old churchyards; 
nor is it uncommon still to set down churches with a 
scrupulous regard to east and west. In modern cem- 
eteries in England and Scotland no attention appears 
to be paid to the old punctilio of interring with the 
feet to the east, the nature of the ground alone being 
considered in the disposition of graves” (Chambers, 
Encyclopedia , s. v.). — Wheatly, On Common Prayer , 
eh. ii, § 2; llook, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; Bingham, Orig. 
Eccl. xiii, viii, 15. Sec Church Edifices. 

Eastburn, James Wallis, A.M., a Protestant 
Episcopal minister, was born in London Sept. 2G, 1797. 
In 1x03 he came to Xew York, and in 1810 passed 
A.B. of Columbia College. In 1818 he became rector 
of St.Geoi'ge’s, Accomac County, Ya., where his min- 
istry is still spoken of with great respect. In 1819 he 
sailed for Santa Cruz, and died on the 2d of December 
of the same year. He composed the beautiful Trinity 
Sunday Ilymn; a lyric, entitled Th° Summer Midnight ; 
a poem, Yamoyden , a Talc of the IFars of King Philip ; 
and various anonymous essays. — Sprague, Ann. v, 035. 

East, Christianity in the. See Arabia ; Asia ; 
China; India; Javan. 

East Gate. See under East. 

East Sea (with the art. ha-yam 

hak-lcadmoni , the forward sea ; Sept. >) SdXacrcra t) 
7 rgwTif) is an epithet used in two passages (Joel ii, 20; 
Ezck. xlvii, lx) of the Dead Sea (q. v.), because it 
lay on the eastern side of the Holy Land. The A1 edi- 
terranean Sea, because lying in the opposite direction, 
was on a like account called the West Sea, or the sea 
on the western border (Xuin. xxxiv, 0; Josh, xv, 12, 
etc.). See Sea. 

East Wind (2*”7p, hadim ', prop, the east [as 
often rendered], i. o. eastern quarter; lienee ellipti- 
c-ally for the wind from that direction, Job xxvii, 21 ; 
Isa. xxvii, S; Jer. xviii, 17 ; Ezek. xxix, 20; the full 
expression fip also occurs, Exod. x, 13, 14,21 ; 
Psa. xlviii, 8; Ezek. xvii, 10). This is in Scripture 
frequently referred to as a wind of considerable 
strength, and also of a peculiarly drv f parching, and 
blighting nature. In Pharaoh's dream the thin cars 
of corn are represented as being blasted bv an east, 
wind, as, in a later age, Jonah’s gourd was withered 


12 EASTER 

• 

and himself scorched by “a vehement east wind” 
(Gen. xli, G; Jonah iv, 8); and often in the prophets, 
when a blighting desolation is spoken of, it is associa- 
ted with the east wind, either as the instrumental cause 
or as a lively image of the evil (Ezek. xvii, 10; xix, 
12 ; Hos. xiii, 15 ; Hab. i, 9, e£c.). This arose from the 
fact that in Egypt, Palestine, and the lands of the Bi- 
ble .generally, the east wind, or a wind more or less 
from an eastern direction, blows over burning deserts, 
and consequently is destitute of the moisture which 
is necessary to promote vegetation. In Egypt it is 
rather a south-east than an east wind, which is com- 
monly found most injurious to health and fruitfulness ; 
but this also is familiarly called an east wind, and it 
often increases to great violence. Ukert thus sums 
up the accounts of modern travellers on the subject: 
“ In the spring the south wind oftentimes springs up 
towards the south-east, increasing to a whirlwind. 
The heat then seems insupportable, although the ther- 
mometer does not always rise very high. As long as 
the south-east wind continues, doors and windows are 
closed, but the fine dust penetrates everywhere ; every- 
thing dries up; wooden vessels warp and crack. The 
thermometer rises suddenly from 1G-20 0 up to 80-30°, 
and even 38° of Reaumur. This wind works destruc- 
tion upon everything. The grass withers, so that it 
entirety perishes if this wind blows long” ( Geogr . p. 
111). It is stated by another traveller, Wansleb, with 
special reference to the strong east wind employed on 
the occasion of the passage of the Israelites through 
the Red Sea, which took place shortly after Easter: 
“ From Easter to Pentecost is the most stormy part of 
the year, for the wind commonly blows during this 
time from the Red Sea, from the east” (see in Ileng- 
stenberg's Egypt and the Boohs of Moses , p. 9 sq.). 
There is nothing, therefore, in the scriptural allusions 
to this wind which is not fully borne out by the reports 
of modern travellers; alike by sea and by land it is 
now, as it has ever been, an unwelcome visitant, and 
carries along with it man}' disagreeable effects. — 
Fairbairn, s. v. See Wind. 

Easter {T:aa\a, a Gr. form of the Ileb. Hw5, and 
so Latinized by the Vulgate pascha ), i. e. Passover. 
Easter is a word of Saxon origin, and imports a god- 
dess of the Saxons, or, rather, of the East, Estcra , in 
honor of whom sacrifices being annually offered al out 
the Passover time of the year (spring), the name be- 
came attached by association of ideas to the Christian 
festival of the resurrection, which happened at the 
time of the Passover: hence wc say Easter-day , Easter - 
Sunday, but very improperly; as we by no means re- 
fer the festival then kept to the goddess of the ancient 
Saxons. So the present German word for Easter, 
O stern, is referred to the same goddess, Estera or Os- 
tera. — Calmet, s. v. The occurrence of this word in 
the A.V. of Acts xii, 4 — “ Intending after Easter to 
bring him forth to the people” — is chiefly noticeable 
as an example of the want of consistency in the trans- 
lators. See Authorized Version. In the earlier 
English versions Easter had been frequently used as 
the translation of irao\a, At the last revision Pass- 
over was substituted in all passages but this. It 
would seem from this, and from the use of such words 
as “robbers of churches” (Acts xix, 37), “town-clerk” 
(xix, 35), “sergeants” (xvi, 35), “deputy” (xiii, 7, 

| etc.), as if the Acts of the Apostles had fallen into the 
hands of a translator who acted on the principle of 
choosing, not the most correct, hut the most familiar 
equivalents (comp. Trench, On the Authorized Version 
of the N. T. p. 21). — Smith, s. v. For all that regards 
the nature and celebration of the feast referred to in 
Acts xii, 4, see Passover. 

EASTER, Celebration of. In the ancient Church 
the seventh day of Passion-week (q. v.), the great Sab- 
bath, as it was called, was observed with rigorous pre- 
, cision as a day of fasting. Religious worship was 


EASTEI 


13 


EASTER 


celebrated by night ; and the vigils continued till 
cock-crowing, the hour at which it is supposed our 
Lord arose. At this hour the stillness of these mid- 
night vigils was broken by the joyful acclamation, 
“ The Lord is risen ! The Lord is risen ! The Lord 
is risen indeed!” The day of Easter was celebrated 
with every demonstration of joy as a second jubilee. 
There was a solemn celebration of the Lord’s Supper ; 
the baptism of catechumens ; appropriate salutations, 
and demonstrations of joy ; the liberation of prisoners, 
and the manumission of slaves. Charities were dis- 
pensed to the needy. Courts of justice were closed. 
The heathen were forbidden to celebrate public spec- 
tacles in order that the devotions of Christians might 
not be interrupted. The week following was consid- 
ered as a continuation of the festival. During this 
time, those who had been baptized at Easter continued 
arrayed in white, in token of that purity 1 ' of life to 
which they were bound by baptism. Oil the Sunday 
following they laid aside their garments of white, and 
were welcomed as members of the Church. — Bingham, 
Oriff. Eccles. bk. xx, eh. v. 

EASTER Controversies. There was much con- 
troversy in the early Church as to the days on which 
our Lord's resurrection ought to be celebrated. The 
churches of Asia Minor celebrated the death of the 
Lord on the day corresponding to the 14th of the 
month Nisan, on which day, according to the opinion 
of the whole ancient Church, the crucifixion took place. 
The Western churches, on the other hand, were of 
opinion that the crucifixion should be annually com- 
memorated on the particular day of the week on which 
it occurred, that is, Friday. The resurrection was ac- 
cordingly commemorated by the former party on the 
day corresponding to the 16tji of Nisan, and by the 
other party on the Sunday following Good Friday. 
The two parties also differed with regard to the fasting 
preceding Easter. The Western churches viewed the 
death-day of Christ exclusively as a day of mourning, 
and they did not terminate the time of fasting until 
the day of resurrection. The churches of Asia Minor, 
on the other hand, looking upon the death of Christ 
wholly as the redemption of mankind, terminated fast- 
ing at the hour of Christ’s death (3 o'clock in the af- 
ternoon), and immediately after celebrated the Agape 
and the Lord’s Supper. In addition to these two par- 
ties, both of which were within the old catholic Church, 
there was another, repudiated by the Church as heret- 
ical. This third party, an Ebionitic sect, agreed with 
the churches of Asia Minor in adhering to the com- 
memoration of the day of the month (14th and lGth of 
Nisan), but differed from them in insisting upon the 
continuance of the obligatory character of the ancient 
law, and the consequent duty of Christians to celebrate 
the Jewish Passover. Both were called Qwirtodeci- 
mcini, from the fourteenth (Latin quartodecimus') day 
of the month on which they commemorated the death 
of Christ. Eusebius mentions (Hist. Eccles. v, 23; 
Vita Constant, iii, 19) Palestine, Pont us, Gallia, Rome, 
Osroene, Corinth, Phoenicia, Alexandria, as churches 
following the Western practice. To these the emperor 
Constantine, in a circular enjoining the observance of 
a decree of the Nicene Council on the subject, adds all 
Italy, Africa, Spain, Britain, Greece. Thus the West- 
ern practice appears to have largely prevailed. Its 
adherents traced its origin to the apostles Peter and 
Paul, while the churches of Asia Minor rested their 
differing practice upon the authority of the apostle 
John. Both parties adhered to the name of Pascha 
(Passover), by which they understood sometimes the 
whole week commemorating the Passion, sometimes 
the specially festive days of this week. In the course 
of time (it is not known when) the death-day was dis- 
tinguished as t ru<7\a (rravpioai^ovj and the day of res- 
urrection as Trdcrya avaaraoif-iov. Irenseus explicitly 
bears testimony that the bishops of Rome up to Xys- 
tus (at the beginning of the 2d century) kept peace 


with the adherents of the other practice. The first 
effort to come to an agreement on the controversy was 
made by bishop Poly carp, of Smyrna, about the middle 
of the 2d century, when on a visit to bishop Anicet, of 
Rome. The two bishops received each other with the 
kiss of peace, but neither of them was willing to sacri- 
fice the practice of his predecessors. Nevertheless they 
parted in kindness, and peace continued to reign be- 
tween the two parties. A few years later, the Ebion- 
itish Quartodecimani caused great trouble at Laodicea 
(about 170), at Rome (about 180), where a certain Blas- 
tus was at their head, and in other places. Books 
against them were written by Melito of Sardis and 
Apollinaris of Hierapolis, both of whom were adhe- 
rents of the practice of Asia Minor ; by Clement of Al- 
exandria and Hippolytus (about the middle of the 3d 
century). Of all these books only fragments are left. 
That of Hippolytus shows that at this time the Jewish 
Quartodecimani were regarded by the Church as here- 
tics. The first serious dispute between the parties with- 
in the old Catholic Church broke out about 196, when 
bishop Victor, of Rome, issued a circular to the leading 
bishops of the Church, requesting them to hold synods 
in their provinces, and to introduce the Western prac- 
tice. Some complied with this request ; but the synod 
held by bishop Polycrates, of Ephesus, emphatically re- 
fused, and approved the letter of bishop Polycratcs, 
who, in defence of the Asiatic practice, referred Victor 
to the authority of the apostles Philip and John, to 
Polvcarp, and to seven of his relations, who before him 
had been bishops of Ephesus. Victor at first intended 
to excommunicate the Asiatic churches, and therefore 
issued an encyclical to the Christians of those regions, 
but whether be really carried out his threat is not cer- 
tain ; tlie words of Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. v, 24) on the 
movements of Victor are by some understood as im- 
plying a real execution of the excommunication, while 
the more common opinion is, that, in consequence of 
the indignant remonstrances against such a usurpation 
of power by the Western bishops, especially by Irenai- 
us, the threat was never executed. 

Thus far the controversy between the Asiatic and 
the Western churches had only concerned two points, 
namely, (1) whether the day of the week or the day of 
tlie month on which the death of Christ occurred 
should be commemorated ; (2) when the fasting ought 
to be terminated. Now a third point of dispute arose, 
as to the time when the 14th day of Nisan really oc- 
curred. Many of the Church fathers are of opinion 
that, according to the original calculation of the Jews 
up to the time of the destruction of Jerusalem, the 
14th of Nisan had always been after the spring equi- 
nox, and that it was only in consequence of a miscal- 
culation of the later Jews that the 14th of Nisan occa- 
sionally fell before tlie equinox. They therefore in- 
sisted that the 14th of Nisan, which for both parties 
within the Church determined the time of Easter, 
should always be after the equinox. As the year of 
the Jews is a lunar year, and the 14th of Nisan always 
a full-moon day, the Christians who adopted the above 
astronomical view, whenever the 14th of Nisan fell 
before the equinox, would celebrate the death of Christ 
one month later than the Jewish Passover. As tlie 
Christians could now' no longer rely on the Jewish cal- 
endar, they had to make their own calculations of the 
time of Easter. These calculations frequently differ- 
ed, partly from reasons already set forth, and partly 
because the date of the equinox was fixed by some at 
the 18th of March, by others at the 19th, by others at 
the 21st of March. The Council of Arles in 314 en- 
deavored to establish uniformity, but its decrees do 
not appear to have had great effect. The subject was 
therefore again discussed and acted upon by tlie Oecu- 
menical Council of Nice, which decreed that Easter 
should be celebrated throughout the Church after the 
equinox, on the Friday following the 14th of - Nisan. 
It was also provided that the Church of Alexandria, 


EASTER 


14 


EATIXG 


as being distinguished in astronomical science, should 
annually inform the Church of Rome on what day of 
the calends or ides Easter should ‘be celebrated, and 
the Church of Rome should notify all the churches of 
the world. Ilut even these decrees of the Council of 
Nice did not put a stop to all differences, and it was 
reserved to the calculation of Dionysius Exiguus (q. 
v.) to gradually introduce uniformity of practice into 
the whole Church. Some countries, like Great Brit- 
ain, did not abandon their ancient practice until after 
a long resistance. At the time of Charlemagne uni- 
formity seems to have been established, and no trace 
is to be found of the Quartodecimani. The revision 
of the calendar by Pope Gregory XI IT, on the "whole, 
retained the Dionysian tera, but determined more ac- 
curately the Easter full moon, and made careful pro- 
vision for avoiding any future deviation of the calen- 
dar fiom the astronomical time. By these minute cal- 
culations, however, the Christian Easter sometimes, 
contrary to the decrees of the Nicene Council, coin- 
cides with the Jewish Passover. This, for instance, 
was the case in 1825. — Mosheiin, Church Hist, i, 68 ; 
Neander, Church Hist, i, 298 ; ii, 301, 302; Moslieim, 
Comm, i, 523; Weitzel, Die chnstliche Paschafeier tier 
ersten Jahrlmnderte (1848); Rettberg, in Zeitschrift fur 
kistorische Theologie, 1832, vol. ii ; llefele, in Wetzer u. 
W’elte, Ktrchen-Lex. hi, 871 ; Steitz, in Herzog, Real' 
Encyklop. xi, 140; Steitz, Die Diferenz cler Occidenfalen 
u. der Kleinasictten (in Stud. u. Krit. 1856). (A. J. S.) 

Easter, John, a distinguished Methodist Episco- 
pal minister. Dates of his early life are wanting, lie 
joined the itinerancy in 1782, and located in 1792. His 
ministerial career was “brilliant,” and “his success 
almost unparalleled.” In 1787, on Brunswick Circuit, 
Va., eighteen hundred souls were added to the Church 
under his ministry. William M‘lvendree and Enoch 
George, afterwards bishops in the Church, were brought 
to God through his preaching. See YVakeley’s Heroes 
of Methodism , p. 219 ; Life and Times of Jesse Lee, p. 
356 et al. 

Easter, John, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born in Norfolk Co., England, Sept. 21, 1800, and join- 
ed the Wesleyan Methodists in 1824. In 1830 he em- 
igrated to America, and settled in Geneva, N. Y. He 
entered the itinerancy in 1832, and took a superannu- 
ated relation in 183S. His death was caused by a 
rocket, at Geneva, on July 4, 1842. Mr. Easter was a 
man of great worth, and a useful and beloved preach- 
er. — Minutes of Conferences , iii, 345. 

Eastern Church, a designation given, 

1. Specifically to what is commonly called the Greek 
Church, in distinction from the Western (or Latin 
Church). The title claimed by that Church itself is 
Kc(0o\ik)) iced u 7 ro(JTo\iic)) tKicXijaia ri)c (h'aroKiKtjQ : 
The Catholic and Apostolic Eastern Church. See 
Greek Church. Bishop Coxe, in the Churchman'’ s 
Calendar , calls it the “Grand Trunk, or main stem of 
the Catholic Church.” 

2. The name Eastern Church, or, more properly, 
Eastern churches , is given to Eastern Christendom, di- 
vided into the churches named in the following list, 
which gives their statistics to the close of 1867, as far 
as they can be ascertained : 

1. Tho Creek Church. — Russia (in Europe, 51,000,000; 
in Siberia, 2,600,000; in the provinces of the Cauca- 
sus no official account of the ecclesiastical statistics 
has yet been made; the total population of this part 
of the empire is 4,257,000, the population connected 
with the Greek Church may be estimated at about 
1,500,000; hence total population of Russia connected 
with the Greek Church is about), 55,000,000; Turkey 
.(inclusive of the dependencies in Europe and Egypt), 
about 11,500,000; Austria, 2,921,000; Greece (inclu- 
sive of the Ionian Islands), 1,220,000; United 'States 
of America (chiefly in the territory purchased in 1867 
from Russia), 50,000; Prussia. 1500; China, 200; to- 


tal, 69,692,700. The figures referring to Russia, Aus- 
tria, and Prussia are from an official census; those 
concerning China are furnished by the Russian mis- 
sionaries in Pekin; those on Turkey and Greece are 
estimates almost generally adopted. See Greek 
Church; Russia. 

2. The Armenian Church. — According to D \ Peter- 
mann (in Herzog’s ReaLEncyklopddie ), the total num- 
ber of Armenians scattered in the world is about 

2.500.000. Of these, about 100,000 are connected with 
Rome, and are called United Armenians; 15,000 are 
Evangelical Armenians, and all others belong to the 
National (or “Gregorian”) Armenian Church. The 
number of the latter may therefore be set down at 
about 2,400,000. The great majority of them (about 

2.000. 000) live in Turkey, about 170,000 in Russia, 
and 30,000 in Persia. See Armenian Church. 

3. The Ncstorians , including the Christians of St. 
Thomas in India, number about 165,000 souls, exclu- 
sive of those who have connected themselves with 
Rome, or have become Protestants. See N estorjans. 

4. The Jacobites in Turkov and India are estimated 
at about 220,000, but the information concerning them 
is less definite than that about the preceding churches. 
See Jacobites. 

5. The Copts and Abyssinians. — The Copts may be 
roughly estimated at about 200,000, the Abyssinians at 
about 3,000,000. See Abyssinian Church; Copts. 

Together, therefore, the population connected with 
these Eastern communions embraces a population of 
about 76,500,000. All these bodies lay claim to hav- 
ing bishops of apostolical succession, and consequent- 
ly all of them are embraced in the union scheme pat- 
ronized by the High-Church Anglicans. Both the 
Low-Church and the Bfuad-Church parties dislike the 
idea of a union w’ith the Greeks, Copts, Abyssinians, 
and the other Eastern communions ; but the High- 
Churchmen, of all shades of opinion, are a unit on this 
subject. An important fact in the history of this move- 
ment is the official transmission of a Greek translation 
of the pastoral letter issued (1867) by the Pan-Anglican 
Synod to all the patriarchs and bishops of the Greek 
Church (Sckem, in Methodist Quarterly Review, 1868, 

I p. 280). 

On the Eastern churches, besides the articles on the 
separate churches in this Cyclopaedia, see Stanley, 

; Lectures on the History of the Eastern Church (N. Y. 
1867, Svo) ; Neale, History of the Holy Eastern Church 
(London, 1847-1850, 4 vois. Svo). A list of the patri- 
archates, sees, etc., of the Eastern churches is given 
in the Churchman’s Calendar , 1868, p. 36 sq. 

Eating (properly akal\ to&iw). The an- 

cient Hebrew’s did not eat indifferently with all per- 
sons; they would have esteemed themselves polluted 
and dishonored by eating with those of another relig- 
ion or of an odious profession. In Joseph’s time they 
neither ate with the Egyptians nor the Egyptians 
with them (Gen. xliii, 32), nor in our Saviour’s time 
with the Samaritans (John iv, 9). The Jews were 
scandalized at his eating with publicans and sinners 
(Matt, ix, 11). As there were several sorts of meats 
the use of which was prohibited, they could not con- 
veniently cat. with those who partook of them, fearing 
to contract pollution by touching such food, or if by 
accident any particles of it should fall on them. See 
Food. At their meals some suppose they had each 
his separate table; and that Joseph, entertaining his 
brethren in Egypt, seated them separately, each at his 
particular table, while he himself sat down separately 
from the Egyptians, who ate with him ; but he sent to 
his brethren portions out of the provisions which were 
before him (Gen. xliii, 31 sq.). Elkanah, Samuel’s 
father, who had two wives, distributed their portions 
to them separately (1 Sam. i, 4, 5). In Homer, each 
guest is supposed to have had his little table apart, 

! and the master of the feast distributed meat to each 


EATING 


15 


EATING 



(Odyss. xiv, 446 sq.). We are assured that this is 
still practised in China, and that many in India never 
eat out of the same dish, nor on the same table with 
another person, believing they cannot do so without 
sin, and this not only in their own country, but when 
travelling and iq foreign lands. This is also the case 
with the Brahmins and various castes in India, who 
will not even use a vessel after a European, though he 
may only have drank from it water recently drawn 
out of a well. The same strictness is observed by the 
more scrupulous among the Mohammedans, and in- 
stances have been known of every plate, and dish, and 
cup that had been used by Christian guests being bro- 
ken immediately after their departure. The ancient 
manners which we see in Horner we see likewise in 
Scripture, with regard to eating, drinking, and enter- 
tainments. There was great plenty, but little deli- 
cacy ; great respect and honor paid to the guests by 
serving them plentifully. Joseph sent his brother 
Benjamin a portion five times larger than those of his 
other brethren. Samuel set a whole quarter of a calf 
before Saul (1 Sam. ix, 24). The women did not ap- 
pear at table in entertainments with the men ; this 
would have been an indecency, as it is at this day 
throughout the East. See Banquet. 

The Hebrews anciently sat at table, but afterwards 
imitated the Persians and Chakl leans, who reclined on 
table-beds or divans while eating. (See Gier, De vett. 
Ehr. ratione ccenandi , Lips. 1630). This mode of re- 
clining at meals was common in the East, and also 
among the Greeks and llomans. Under the Roman, 
emperors the couches were sometimes made semicir- 
cular. Sec Accusation. At the present day, in the 
East, the custom is to sit or recline upon the floor at 
meat, and at other times on cushions. Many of the 
Arabs use no knife, fork, spoon, or plate in eating their 
victuals (these being used only by foreigners, and that 
as a special privilege) ; they dip their hands into the 
milk which is placed before them in a wooden bowl, 


Ancient Triclinium or Dinner-bed. 

and lift it to their mouth in their palm. Dr. Russell 
states, “ The Arabs, in eating, do not thrust their 
whole hand into the dish, but only their thumb and 
two first lingers, with which the}" take up the mor- 
sel, and that in a moderate quantity at a time.” The 
present mode of eating in Syria and Palestine is thus 
described by Dr. Jowett: “To witness the daily fam- 
ily habits, in the house in which I lived at Deir el 
Karnr (not far from Beyrout), forcibly reminded me 
of Scripture scenes. The absence of the females at 
our meals has already been noticed. There is another 


custom, by no means agreeable to a European, to 
which, however, I would willingly have endeavored to 
submit, but it was impossible to learn it in the short 
compass of twenty days’ visit. There are set on the 
table, in the evening, two or three messes of stewed 
meat, vegetables, and sour milk. To me the privilege 
of a knife, and spoon, and plate was granted ; but the 
rest all helped themselves immediately from the dish, 
in which it was no uncommon thing to see more than 
five Arab fingers at one time. Their bread, which is 
extremely thin, tearing and folding up like a sheet of 
paper, is used for the purpose of rolling together a large 
mouthful, or sopping up the fluid and vegetables. But 
the practice which was most revolting to me was this : 
when the master of the house found in the dish any 
dainty morsel, he took it out with his fingers and’ ap- 
plied it to my mouth. This was true Syrian courtesy 
and hospitality, and had I been sufficiently well-bred, 
my moutli would have opened to receive it. On my 
pointing to my plate, however, lie bad the goodness to 
deposit the choice morsel there” ( Researches , p. 210). 
Niebuhr’s account is as follows (Descrip. <f Arabia, 
p. 52). “The table of the Orientals is arranged ac- 
cording to their mode of living. As they always sit 
upon the floor, a large cloth is spread out in the mid- 
dle of the room upon the floor, in order that the bits 
and crumbs may not be lost, or the carpets soiled. 
(On journeys, especially in the deserts, the place of 
this cloth is supplied by a round piece of leather, which 
the traveller carries with him, Travels , ii, 372.) Upon 
this cloth is placed a small stool, which serves as a 
support for a large round tray' of tinned copper ; on 
this the food is served up in various small dishes of 
copper, well tinned within and without. Among the 
better class of Arabs, one finds, instead of napkins, a 
long cloth, which extends to all who sit at table, and 
which they lay upon their laps. Where this is want- 
ing, each one takes, instead of a napkin, his own hand- 
kerchief, or rather small towel, which he always car- 
ries with him to wipe himself 
with after washing. Knives 
and forks are not used. The 
Turks sometimes have spoons 
of wood or horn. The Arabs 
are so accustomed to use the 
hand instead of a spoon, that 
they can do without a spoon 
even when eating bread and 
milk prepared in the usual 
manner. Other kinds of food, 
such as we commonly eat with 
a spoon, I do not remember to 
have seen. It is, indeed, at 
first, very unpleasant to a 
European, just arrived in the 
East, to eat with people who 
help themselves to the food 
out of the common dish with 
their fingers ; but this is easi- 
ly got over, after one has be- 
come acquainted with their 
mode of life. As the Moham- 
medans are required, by their 
religion, very often to wash 
themselves, it is therefore even 
on this account probable that 
their cooks prepare their food with as much clean- 
liness as those of Europe. The Mohammedans are 
even obliged to keep their nails cut so short that no im- 
purity can collect under them ; for they believe their 
prayers would he without any effect, if there should be 
the least impurity upon any part of the body. And 
since, now, before eating, they always wash themselves 
carefully, and generally too with soap, it comes at 
length to seem of less consequence whether they help 
themselves from the dish with clean fingers or with u 
fork. Among the sheiks of the desert, who require at 


EATING 


16 


EBAL 



a meal nothing more than jrillini , i. e. boiled rice, a 
very large wooden dish is brought on full, and around 
this one party after another set themselves till the dish 
is emptied, or they are satisfied. In Merdin, where I 
once ate with sixteen officers of the Waiwode, a ser- 
vant placed himself between the guests, and had noth- 
ing to do but to take away the empty dishes, and set 
down the full ones which other servants brought in. 
As soon as ever the dish was set down, all the sixteen 
hands were immediately thrust into it, and that to so 
much purpose, that rarely could any one help himself 
three times. They eat, in the East, with very great 
rapidity ; and at this meal in Merdin, in the time of 
about twenty minutes, we sent out more than fourteen 
empty dishes.” See Dine. 


Modern Oriental Party at Dinner. 

The Hebrews, like the modern Orientals, rose early, 
about the dawn of the day, when they breakfasted. 
They were aeeustomed to take a slight repast about 
noon ; and this to husbandmen and mechanics was 
probably the principal meal (1 Kings xx, 1G; Ruth ii, 
14; Luke xiv, 12). Wilkinson says, ‘‘That dinner 
was served up at midday among the ancient Egyp- 
tians may he inferred from the invitation given by 
Joseph to his brethren : ‘ Bring these men home, and 
slay and make ready, for these men shall dine with me 
at noon’ (Gen. xliii, 1G); but it is probable that, like 
the Romans, they also ate supper in the evening, as is 
still the custom in the East.” Supper appears to have 
been the principal meal among the Hebrews, as it was 
among the Greeks and Romans. Among the Romans 
it anciently took place about three o’clock ; but in the 
East, ns at the present daj' in Persia, about six or seven 
in the evening, in order to avoid the enfeebling heat 
of the afternoon (Mark vi, 21 ; Luke xiv, 1G, 24; John 
xii, 2). In 1 Sam. ix, 13, we read that the people 
would not eat of the feast until Samuel had arrived 
and consecrated the sacrifice. But this circumstance 
afl'ords no evidence of the custom of asking a blessing 
on food, fn t lie time of Christ, however, it was com- 
mon before every meal to give thanks (Matt, xiv, 19; 
xv, 3G). See Meal-time. 

In closing this subject, we may properly notice the 
obligations which are considered by Eastern people 
to be contracted by. eating together. Niebuhr says, 
“When a Bedouin sheik eats bread with strangers, 
they may trust his fidelity ami depend on his protec- 
tion. A traveller will always do well, therefore, to 
take an early opportunity of securing the friendship 
of his guide by a meal.” The reader will recollect the 
complaint of the Psalmist (xli, 9). penetrated with the 
deep ingratitude of one whom -lie describes, as having 
been his own familiar friend, in whom lie trusted — 


“who did eat of my bread , even he hath lifted up his 
heel against me !” Hence, in part, no doubt, the con- 
viviality that always followed the making of a cove- 
nant. Hence, also, the severity of some of the feel- 
ings acknowledged by the indignant man of patience, 
Job, as appears in several passages of his pathetic ex- 
postulations. It is well known that Arabs, who have 
given food to a stranger, have afterwards thought 
themselves bound to protect him against the ven- 
geance, demanded by consanguinity, for even blood it- 
self. (See Layard’s Nineveh , 2d series, p. 217.) See 
Hospitality. 

To “eat” is frequently spoken metaphorically in 
Scripture of the enjoyment or partaking of temporal 
or spiritual blessings (Jer. xv, lfi; Ezek. iii, 1 ; Rev. x, 
9). Wemj'ss’s /Symbol. Diet . 
s. v. Comp. Drink ; Taste. 

Baton, John, was born 
at Kant in 157 5, and studied 
at Oxford. In 1G25 he was 
made rector of Wiekham- 
Market, Suffolk, where he 
died in 1G41. His writings 
are Antinomian. They are, 
The Discovery o f a most dan- 
gerous dead Faith (Loud. 1GH, 
12ino) \ — The Honeycomb of 
free Justification (Loud. 1G42, 
4 to), lie was imprisoned for 
this last work by the Long 
Parliament. — Wood, A thenice 
Oxonlenses ; Hook, Feel. Bioe/. 
iv, 52G. 

Eaton, Samuel, a Con- 
gregational minister, was a 
native of England, and took 
his degrees at Magdalen Col- 
lege, Cambridge. lie entered 
into the ministry of the Es- 
tablished Church, but, on account of his Puritanism, 
came to New England with the Rev. John Davenport 
in 1G37, and was co-pastor with him at New Haven, 
lie returned to England in 1G40, and formed a Con- 
gregational church at Duckenfield, Cheshire. By the 
Act of Uniformity he was compelled to cease preach- 
ing in 1GG2, and died June 9, 1GG5. He published A 
Defence of sundry Positions and Scriptures alleged to 
justify the Congregational Way (1G45; second part, 
1G4G) : — The Mystery of God incarnate , or the Word 
made Flesh cleared up , etc. (1G50): — Vindication , or 
further Confirmation of the Scriptures , produced to 
prove the Divinity of Jesus Christ, distorted and misera- 
bly wrested and abused by Mr. John Knowles , etc. (1G51) : 
— Treatise of the Oath of Allegiance and Covenant, show- 
ing that they oblige not (replied to 1G50): — The QuaJeers 
Confuted , ete. (1G59). — Sprague, Annals , i, 98. 

E'bal (Heb. FybaV, stone}, the name of one 

or two persons, and also of a hill. 

1. (Sept. Ttpiuv [Vat. INIS, omits], Vulg. Hebal.} 
A various reading for Odal (q. v.), the son of Joktan 
(1 Chron. i, 22; comp. Gen. x, 28). 

2. (YaifitjK v. r. T [1 Alex. NFS. Fao/3//\], 
Vulg. Ebal.} The fourth son of Shobal, son of Seir, 
the llorite of Idumaea (Gen. xxxvi, 23; 1 Chron. i, 
40). B.C. ante 1G94. 

3. (Sept. r«f/3«A, Josephus ri/3«Xoe,Vulg. Hebal.} 
A mountain on the northern part of the tribe of Ephra- 
im, on the north-eastern side of the valley in which 
was situated the city of Shechem (now Nablous), in 
Samaria (q. v.). See Mills, Three Months at Nablus 
(London, 18G1). 

1. It was here that the Israelites were enjoined to 
erect an altar, setting up plastered stones, and re- 
spond to the imprecations uttered in the valley, ac- 
cording to the divinely prescribed formula, upon those 


EBAL 


17 


EBAL 


who should prove faithless to the Sinaitic law (Deut. 
xi, 29 ; xxvii, 4, 13), while the responses to the bless- 
ings were to be uttered by the other division of the 
tribal representatives stationed upon the opposite 
mountain, Gerizini. Both the benediction and the 
anathema were prononneed by the Levites, who re- 
mained with the ark in the centre of the interval 
(compare Deut. xxvii, 11-2G, with Josh, viii, 30-35, 
with Joseph. Ant. iv, 8, 44, and -with the comments of 
the Talmud, Sota , 3G, quoted in Ilerxheimer’s Penta- 
teuch). But, notwithstanding the ban thus appar- 
ently laid on Ebal, it was further appointed to be the 
site of the first great altar to he erected to Jehovah : 
an altar of large unhewn stones, plastered with lime, 
and inscribed with the words of the law (Deut. xxvii, 
2-8). On this altar peace-offerings were to be offered, 
and round it a sacrificial feast was to take place, with 
other rejoicings (ver. G, 7). Scholars disagree as to 
whether there were to be two erections — a. kind of 
cromlech and an altar; or an altar only, with the law 
inscribed on its stones. The latter was the view of 
Josephus (Ant. iv, 8, 41; v, 1, 19), the former is un- 
hesitatingly adopted by the latest commentator (Keil, 
Comment, on Josh, viii, 32). The terms of Moses’s in- 
junction seem to infer that no delay was to take place 
in carrying out this symbolical transaction. It was 
to be “on the day” that Jordan was crossed (xxvii, 
2), before they “went in unto the land flowing with 
milk and honey” (ver. 3). Accordingly Joshua ap- 
pears to have seized the earliest practicable moment, 
after the pressing affairs of the siege of Jericho, the 
execution of Achan, and the destruction of Ai had 
been dispatched, to carry out the command (Josh, viii, 
30-35). After this Ebal appears no more in the sa- 
cred story. By a corruption of the above-cited texts, 
the Samaritans transferred the site of the appointed 
altar to the opposite mountain, which has hence at- 
tained the greater notoriety. See Gerizim. 

2. The question now arises, where were Ebal and 
Gerizim situated? The all but unanimous reply to 
this is, that they are the mounts which form the sides 
of the fertile valley in which lies Nablus, the ancient 
Shechem — Ebal on the north and Gerizim on the 
south. 

(1.) It is plain from the passages already quoted 
that they were situated near together, with a valley 
between. 

(2.) Gerizim was very near Shechem (Juclg. ix, 7), 
and in Josephus’s time their names appear to have 
been attached to the mounts, which -were then, as now, 
Ebal on the north and Gerizim on the south. Since 
that they have been mentioned by Benjamin of Tu- 
dela (Asher, i, G6) and Sir John Maundeville, and 
among modern travellers by Maundrell (Mod. Trav. 
p. 432). 

The main impediment to onr entire reception of this 
view rests in the terms of the first mention of the place 
by Moses in Deut. xi, 30: A.Y. “Are they not on the 
other side Jordan, by the way where the sun goeth 
down, in the land of the Canaanites, which dwell in 
the champaign over against Gilgal, beside the plains 
of Moreh?” Here the mention of Gilgal, which was 
in the valley of the Jordan near Jericho, of the valley 
itself (A rabaJi, mistranslated here only, “champaign”), 
and ot the Canaanites who dwelt there, and also the 
other terms of the injunction of Moses, as already 
noticed, seem to imply that Ebal and Gerizim were 
in the immediate neighborhood of Jericho. This is 
strengthened by the narrative of Joshua, who appears 
to have carried out the prescribed ceremonial on the 
mounts while his camp was at Gilgal (comp, vii, 2; 
ix, G), and before he had (at least before any account 
of his having) made his way so fur into the interior of 
the country as Shechem. 

This is the view taken by Eusebius (Onomasticon, s. 
v. r c,<3dX). He does not quote the passage in Dent., 
but seems to be led to his opinion rather by the diffi - 1 
III.— B 


culty of the mountains at Shechem being too far apart 
to admit of the blessings and cursings being heard, 
and also by his desire to contradict the Samaritans; 
add to this that he speaks from no personal knowledge, 
but simply from hearsay (\tyerai), as to the existence 
of two such hills in the Jordan valley. The notice of 
Eusebius is merely translated by Jerome, with a shade 
more of animosity to the Samaritans (vehementer er* 
7-ctnt), and expression of difficulty as to the distance, 
but without any additional information. Procopius 
and Epiphanins also followed Eusebius, but their mis- 
takes have been disposed of by Reland (Palcest. p. 503- 
4 ; Miscell. p. 129-133). 

With regard to the passage in Dent., it will per- 
haps assume a different aspect on examination. (1.) 
Moses is represented as speaking from the east side of 
Jordan, before anything was known of the country on 
the west, beyond the exaggerated reports of the spies, 
and when everything there was wrapped in mystery, 
and localities and distances had not assumed their due 
proportions. (2.) A closer rendering of the verse is as 
follows: “Are they not on the other side the Jordan, 
beyond (Q*Hn$t, the word rendered ‘the backside of 
the desert’ in Exod. iii, 1) the way of the sunset, in 
the land of the Canaanite who dwells in the Arabah 
over against Gilgal, near the terebinths of Moreh?” 
If this rendering is correct, a great part of the diffi- 
culty has disappeared. Gilgal no longer marks the 
site of Ebal and Gerizim, but of the dwelling of the 
Canaanites, who were, it is true, the first to encounter 
the Israelites on the other side of the river, in their 
native lowlands, but who, we have it actually on rec- 
ord, were both in the time of Abraham (Gen. xii, G) 
and of the conquest (Josh, xvii, 18) located about She- 
chem. The word now rendered “ beyond” is not rep- 
resented at all in the A. V., and it certainly throws 
the locality much further back; and, lastly, there is 
the striking landmark of the trees of Moreh, which 
were standing by Shechem when Abraham first enter- 
ed the land, and whose name probably survived in 
Morthia, or Mamortha, a name of Shechem found on 
coins of the Roman period (Reland, Miscell. p. 137 sq.). 
See Gilgal. 

In accordance with this is the addition in the Sa- 
maritan Pentateuch, after the -words “the terebinths 
of Moreh,” at the end of Dent, xi, 30, of the -words 
“ over against Shechem.” This addition is the more 
credible because there is not, as in the case noticed 
afterwards, any apparent motive for it. If this inter- 
pretation be accepted, the next verse (31) gains a 
fresh force : “ For ye shall pass over Jordan [not only 
to meet the Canaanites immediately on the other side, 
but] to go in to possess the land [the whole of the 
country, even the heart of -it, where these mounts are 
situated (glancing back to ver. 29)], the land which 
Jehovah your God giveth you ; and ye shall possess it, 
and dwell therein.” It may also be asked whether 
the significance of the whole solemn ceremonial of the 
blessing and cursing is not missed if we understand it 
as taking place directly a footing had been obtained 
on the outskirts of the country, and not as acted in 
the heart of the conquered land, in its most prominent 
natural position, and close to its oldest city— Shechem. 

This is evidently the view taken bv Josephus. His 
statement (Ant. v, 1, 19) is that it took place after the 
subjugation of the country and the establishment of 
the tabernacle at Shiloh. He has no misgivings as 
to the situation of the mountains. They were at She- 
chem (f 7 ri SiKtfuov), and from thence, after the cere- 
mony, the people returned to Shiloh. 

The narrative of Joshua is more puzzling. But 
even with regard to this something may be said. It 
will at once be perceived that the book contains no ac- 
count of the conquest of the centre of the country, of 
those portions which were afterwards the mountain of 
Ephraim, Esdraelon, or Galilee. We lose Joshua at 


EBAL 


13 


EBBO 


Gilgal, after the conquest of the south, to find him 
again suddenly at the waters ofMcrom in the extreme 
north (x, 43; xi, 7). Of his intermediate proceedings 
the only record that seems to have escaped is the frag- 
ment contained in viii, 80-85. Nor should it be over- 
looked that some doubt is thrown on this in Josli. viii, 
80-35, by its omission in both the Vat. and Alex. MSS. j 
of the Sept. 

The distance of Ebal and Gerizim from each other 
is not such a stumbling-block to us as it was to Ease- j 
bins; though it is difficult to understand how he and 
Jerome should have been ignorant of the distance to 
which the voice will travel in the clear elastic atmos- 1 
phere of the East. Stanle 3 r has given some instances 
of this (Sinai and Pal. p. 13) ; others equally remark- 
able have been observed by those long resident in the i 
neighborhood, who state that a voice can be heard 
without difficulty across the valley separating the two | 
spots in question (see also Bonar, p. 371). 

It is well known that one of the most serious varia- 
tions between the Hebrew text of the Pentateuch and 
the Samaritan text is in reference to Ebal and Geri- 
zim. In Deut. xxvii, 4, the Samaritan has Gerizim, j 
while the Hebrew (as in A.V.) has Ebal, as the mount 
on which the altar to Jehovali and the inscription of 
the law were to be erected. Upon this basis the Sa- 
maritans ground the sanctity of Gerizim and the au- 
thenticity of the Temple and holy place, which have ex- 
isted there. The arguments upon this difficult ques- 
tion will be found in Ivennicott ( Dissert . ii), and in 
the reply of Versclmir (Leovard. 1775 ; quoted bv Ge- 
senius, De Pent. Sam. p. Gl). Two points may merely 
be glanced at here w r hieh have apparently escaped no- 
tice. 1. Both agree that Ebal was the mount on which 
the cursings were to rest, Gerizim that for blessings. 
It appears inconsistent that Ebal, the mount of curs- 
ing, should be the site of the altar and the record of 
the law, while Gerizim, the mount of blessing, should 
remain unoccupied by sanctuary of any kind. 2. 
Taking into account the known predilection of Orien- 
tals for ancient sites on which to fix their sanctuaries, 
it is more easy to believe (in the absence of any evi- 
dence to the contrary) that in building their temple on 
Gerizim, the Samaritans were making use of a spot 
already enjoying a reputation for sanctity, than that 
they built on a place upon which the curse was laid in 
the records which they received equally with the dews. 
Thus the very fact of the occupation of Gerizim by 
the Samaritans would seem an argument for its orig- 
inal sanctity. On the other hand, all critics of emi- 
nence, with the exception of Ivennicott, regard this as 
a corruption of the sacred text; and when it is con- 
sidered that the invariable reading in Hebrew MSS. 
and ancient versions, both in this passage and the cor- 
responding one in Josh, vfii, 30, is “ Ebal,” it seems ■ 
strange that any scholar would for a moment doubt its 
correctness. Kennicott takes an opposite view, main- 
taining the integrity of the Samaritan readi.ng, and ar- 
guing the point at great length ; but his arguments 
are neither sound nor pertinent (Dissertations on the 
Hebrew Text , ii, 20 sq.). The Samaritans had a strong 
reason for corrupting the text, seeing that Gerizim was 
their sanctuary ; and they desired to make it not mere- 
ly the. mountain of blessing, but the place of the altar 
and the inscribed law. See Samaritans. 

3. Ebal is rarely ascended by travellers, and we are 
therefore in ignorance as to how far the question may 
be affected by remains of ancient buildings thereon. 
That such remains do exist is certain, even from the ( 
very meagre accounts published (Bartlett, Wtdks about 
Jerusalem, App. p. 251 sq.; and Narrative of Kev. J. 
Mills in Trans. Pal. Archtrol. Assoe. 1855), while the 
mountain is evidently of such extent as to warrant the 
belief that, there is a great deal still to discover. 

The report of the old travellers was that Ebal was 
more barren than Gerizim (see- Benjamin of Tndela, 
and Maundrell, in Early Travels in Palestine, p. 82, I 


433 ; Wilson, Lands of the Bible , ii, 71) ; but this opin- 
ion probably arose from a belief in the effects of the 
curse mentioned above. At any rate, it is not borne 
out by the latest accounts, according to which there is 
little or no perceptible difference. They are not iso- 
lated mountains, but culminating points of a chain. 
Their declivities facing the vale bear a singular resem- 
blance to each other. They are equally rugged and 
bare ; the limestone strata here and there project, form- 
ing bold bluffs and precipices ; but the greater portion 
of the slopes, though steep, are formed into terraces, 
partly natural and partly artificial. For this reason 
both mountains appear more barren from below than 
they are in reality, the rude and naked supporting 
walls of the terraces alone being thus visible. The 
soil, though scanty, is rich. In the bottom of the vale 
are olive groves, and a few straggling trees extend 
some distance up the sides. The broad summits and 
upper slopes have no trees, yet they are not entirely 
bare. The steeper banks are here and there scantily 
clothed with dwarf shrubbery; while in spring and 
early summer, rank grass, brambles, and thistles, in- 
termixed with myriads of bright wild flowers — ane- 
mones, convolvulus, tulips, and poppies — spring up 
among the rocks and stones. Ebal is “ occupied from 
bottom to top by beautiful gardens” (Mills ; see also 
Porter, Hand-book, p. 332). The slopes of Ebal to- 
wards the valley appear to be steeper than those of 
Gerizim (Wilson, p. 45, 71). It is also the higher 
mountain of the two. There is some uncertainty 
about the measurements, but the following are the re- 
sults of the latest observations (Van de Velde, Memoir, 
P- 178): 

Nablus, above sea, 1G72 ft. 

Gerizim do. 2600 ^ above Nablus, 02S ft. 

Ebal do. about 2700 u do. 1»>2S “ 

According to Wilson (Lands, ii, 71 ; but see Bobin- 
son, ii, 277, 280, note), it is sufficiently high to shut 
out Hermon from the highest point of Gerizim. The 
structure of Gerizim is numinulitic limestone, with oc- 
casional outcrops of igneous rock (Poole, in Georjrajh. 
Journ. xxvi, 5G), and that of Ebal is probably similar. 
At its base above the valley of Nablus are numerous 
caves and sepulchral excavations. This was, doubt- 
less, the necropolis of Shechem (Robinson, iii, 131; 
Van de Velde, ii, 290). The modern name of Ebal is 
Sitti Salamhjah, from a Mohammedan female saint, 
whose tomb is standing on the eastern part of the 
ridge, a little before the highest point is reached (Wil- 
son, p. 71, note). B} r others, however, it is reported 
to he called 'I mad ed-Dbi, “the pillar of the religion” 
(Stanley, p. 238, note). The tomb of another saint, 
called A mad, is also shown (Bitter, p. G41), with uliom 
the latter name may have some connection. On the 
south-east shoulder is a ruined site hearing the name 
of ’Askar (Bobinson, iii, 132). — Smith, s. v. See Sy- 

CHAR. 

Ebbo, archbishop of Iiheims, was the son of a 
Saxon serf, and was born about 775, or, according to 
other accounts, about 78G. While a bov he became 
known to the 3 'oiing king Louis, the son < f Charle- 
magne, who sent him to a convent school, and had him 
educated for the ministry. As he belonged to a serf 
family, and could not receive orders, Louis set. him 
free, after which he was ordained. After the acces- 
sion cf Louis to the throne, Ebbo's influence rapidly 
rose, and in 817 the king secured his election as arch- 
bishop of Bhciins. Soon after, in 822, lie placed him- 
self at the head of a mission to the Danes. His plan 
highly pleased both the king and the Pope. The Da- 
nish king Harald allowed him to preach Christianity, 
but refused to become a Christian himself. Many 
Danes were baptized; lmt, owing to some threaten- 
ing movements against Harald, Ebbo in 823 returned 
to the emperor, and'at the Diet of Compiegne made a 
full report mi bis mission. Soon after he undertook 
a second missionary visit to Denmark, at which he dis- 


EBED 


19 


EBEL 


posed the king favorably towards Christianity. In 
820, the king, with his wife, his oldest son, his nephew, 
and a suite of 400 men, came to the emperor’s court at 
Mavcnee and was baptized. The mission in Den- 
mark was now placed under Ansgar, and Ebbo re- 
turned to his archbishopric. He took an active part 
in the affairs of the state, and in the war of the sons 
of Louis against their father, he, with most of the bish- 
ops, took side with the sons. He presided at the as- 
sembly of bishops which in 833 compelled Louis to do 
public penanee, as such an act, according to the laws 
of the Church, made him unlit to bear arms. l>ut 
when, in 834, Louis regained his power, Ebbo was ar- 
rested and kept a prisoner in the convent of Fulda. 
He was brought before the Diet of Diedenhofen in 
835, and confessed himself guilty of offences which, in 
the opinion of the judges, made him unlit for any fur- 
ther administration of his office. He was again con- 
fined in the convent of Fulda, where he remained un- 
til the death of Louis in 810. He then prevailed upon 
Lothaire, -who made an attempt to possess himself of 
the whole empire of his father, to reinstate him as 
archbishop of Uheims (Dec. 6,840). In May, 841, king 
Charles, the brother of Lothaire, again expelled him; 
and as, at the conclusion of peace, Lothaire did not 
take a special interest in Ebbo, he lost his archbishop- 
ric forever. In the last 3 r ears of his life, king Louis 
of Germany appointed him, with permission of the 
Pope, administrator of the diocese of Hiklesheim. He 
died March 20th, 851. Ebbo compiled an Indiculum 
Ebbonis de ministris Remensis ecclesice , an instruction 
for the clergy of his diocese as to their mode of life, 
and an Apologia Archiepiscopi Remensis cum ejusdem 
ad gentes septent rionales legatione. They are of small 
size and no value. — Herzog, Real- Ency Hop. xix, 447 ; 
Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iii, 349. (A. J. S.) 

E'bed (Heb. id. '"12?, servant [q. v.], i. e. of God; 
comp. Abda), the name of two men. 

1. (Many MSS., and the Syr. and Arab. Versions, 
nave "12?, Eber ; Sept. ’UofiijX ; Alexand. MS. Afiid ; 
Vulg. Ebed and Obed .) The father of Gaal (q. v.), 
who headed the insurgents at Sheehem against Abim- 
eleeh, tyrant judgs of the Israelites (Judg. ix, 26-35). 
B.C. ante 1321. 

2. (Sept. £‘2/3/3’ v. r. G/3/;r, Vulgate Abed.) Son of 
Jonathan, and family-head of the lineage of Adin; he 
returned with 50 males from the captivity (Ezra viii, 
6). B.C. 459. 

Ebed-jesu, surnamed Bak-Briciia (Son of the 
Blessed), an eminent Nestorian theologian, was horn 
in Mesopotamia about the middle of the 13th century. 
After having been for five years bishop of Sigara, in 
Arabia, he was made Nestorian bishop of Soba or Nisi- 
be in 1290. Where Ebed-Jesn pursued his studies is 
not known, but the works which he has left us show 
that he was fluent in the Arabic, well acquainted with 
the Greek, and his dogmatical writings especially dis- 
play an extensive knowledge with philosophy and di- 
alectics. He seems also to have been familiar with 
the works of the great Jacobite B:ir-Hebra?us. His 
works, which are more than twenty, are mostly of a 
theological character; on the interpretation of the O. 
and N. T., on the Logos, saeraments of the Church, 
and a treatise on the truth of the Faith (pul), by A. Mai 
in Syriac and Lat., Script. Yet. x, 317 : — Epitome or 
Collection of the Canons of Councils (also published by 
Mai): — Canones xxv apnstoliei oh Reel e sun ordination- 
em : — Prima christiance doctrinw Difusin (a Description 
of the Countries that permitted the preaching of the 
Apostles): — 23 Canons of the Apostles, edited by St. 
Clement : — 5 other Canons of the Apostles, published 
also by St. Clement : — The Pai'adise Eden, containing 
50 poems, divided into two parts, called Henoch and 
Elias, beginning with the Trinity, and ending with the 
Resurrection. (Comp. Assemani, Bibl. Or. iii, 1, p. 325 
sq.) Of literary importance is his catalogue of 200 Syr- 


ian writers (ably edited by Assemani, Bibl. Or. iii, 1, p. 
1-362), at the close of which his own writings are also 
given. — lloefer, Nouv. Bing. Gen. xv, 594 ; Herzog, iii, 
613; Assemani, Bibl. Orient, iii, part i. (J. H. W.) 

Ebed-Jestl, a Chalthcan patriarch and Syrian 
writer, lived about the middle of the lGtli century. 
He received his education at Gozarta, and was after- 
wards bishop of that place. In 1554 lie was elected 
as the successor of Sulaka, first patriarch of the Nes- 
torians, and confirmed by the Pope in 1562. Ebed- 
Jesu was a man of great erudition ; lie was familiar 
with the writings of all the Greek and Latin fathers, 
and was also master of the Arabic, Chaldee, and the 
Syriac. Many of the Nestorians were converted by 
him, and the numbers of the Chaldees were augment- 
ed under his administration. He died a few years 
after his visit to Rome (1562), in a monastery at the 
village of Seert in Mesopotamia. We have from him 
a poem in three parts : Sur le voyage a Rome, le retour 
et la mort de Sulaka ; Poeme a la luuange de Pie IV; 
a Confession of Faith, read at the 22d session of the 
Council of Trent. — Assemani, Bibl. Onent. i, 538; 
iii, p. 3, 325 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biographie Generate, xv, 
595. (J. H. W.) 

E'bed-me'Iech (Heb. E'bed-Me'lek , 
servant of the king, i. q. Arabic Abd el-Mdlek , Sept. 
’AfictpeXey, Vulgate Abdemelech), an Ethiopian at the 
court of Zedekiah, king of Judah, who was instrumen- 
tal in saving the prophet Jeremiah from death by fam- 
ine (Jer. xxxviii, 7-13), and who, for his humanity in 
this circumstance, was promised deliverance when the 
city should fall into the enemy’s hands (Jer. xxxix, 
15-18). B.C. 589. See Jeremiah. lie is there 
styled a eunuch (D*?D TIPIS), and he probably had 
charge of the king’s harem (eomp. xxxviii, 22, 23), an 
office which would give him the privilege of free pri- 
vate aeeess to the king ; but his name seems to be an 
official title — King's slave, i. e. minister . See Eunuch. 

Ebeli. See Reed. 

EbeL See Talmud. 

Ebel, Johann Wilhelm, a Protestant mystic and 
theosophist, was born in 1784 at Passenheim, in the 
province of Eastern Prussia. In 1809, while a preach- 
er in the Established Chnreb of Prussia, he attracted 
the attention of his ecclesiastical superiors on account 
of his connection with the theosophist Schonherr (q. 
v.). Subsequently he was appointed preacher at Ivoe- 
nigsberg, where he gathered around him a circle of 
enthusiastic followers, among them a few noble men 
and a larger number of noble women. Foretime 
among the latter were the countess of Ivanitz and the 
countess von del* Groben. In 1837, at the request 
of the Consistory of that city, a suit was instituted 
against him and his friend Diestel, which belongs 
among the most remarkable trials of the kind in .mod- 
ern times. lie was in 1842 acquitted from the chief 
charge of the establishment of a new seet, but deposed 
from office for violating his official duties by commu- 
nicating to others theosophie and philosophical views 
differing from the doctrines of the Church. He died 
in 1861, at the villa of his friend the eountess von der 
Grdhen. Ebel wrote a number of works, chiefly cf a 
mystic nature, among which are the following : Die 
Weisheit von Obcn (1822) : — I)er Tagesanbruch (1824): — 
Die gedeihliche Erziehung (1825) : — Bibehrorte u. Winke 
(1827) : — Die Philosophic der heil. Urkunde (1854-56). 
A full account of Ebel, his doctrines and followers, is 
given in Dixon, Spiritual Wives (London and Phila- 
delphia, 1868), where is also printed for the first time 
a paper by professor Sachs, which was the chief evi- 
dence used against Ebel. See also Diestel, Das Zeu- 
genverhor in d. Proeesse wider cl. Prediger Ebel u. Diestel 
(Leipz. 1838), and Ernst eount von Kanitz (follower 
of Ebel), Aufkldrung nach Actenquellen , etc, (Basel, 
1862). (A. J. S.) 


EBEN- 


20 


EBERLIN 


Eben- (^riX, e'ben , stone), stands as a prefix in 
several geographical names, which designate monu- 
ments set up to commemorate certain events [see 
Stone]; e. g. Eben-boiian; Eben-ezel; Eben- 
kzeu ; Eben-zoiieletii. 

Eben-bohan. See Bohan. 

Eben-ezel. See Ezel. 

Eb'en-e'zer (Ileb. with the art. E’ben ha-E'ezer , 
•Trn stone of the kelp; Sept. ’ AfiiviZ,tp ; Jose- 
pliiis translates \ixoq t(T\o()6(,), the name given to a 
place marked by a monumental stone which Samuel 
set up as a memorial of the divine assistance in battle 
obtained against the Philistines (1 Sam. vii, 12). See 
Pillar. Twenty years before this, the same spot 
(mentioned in the history under the same name by 
anticipation of its subsequent designation) witnessed 
the discomfiture of the Hebrew hosts, the death of the 
high-priest’s sons, and the capture of the sacred ark 
by the Philistines (1 Sam. iv, 1; v, 1). Its position is j 
carefully defined (1 Sam. vii, 22) as between Mizpeh — 
“the watch-tower,” one of the conspicuous eminences [ 
a few miles N. of Jerusalem — and Shen, “the tooth” j 
or “crag,” apparently some isolated landmark. Nei- 
ther of these points, however, has been identified with 
certainty — at least not the latter. According to Jose- i 
phus’s record of the transaction (.4«£. vi, 2, 2), the , 
stone was erected to mark the limit of the victory, a 
spot which he calls Corrhiva , but in the Hebrew Beth- 
CAR (q. v.). Eusebius and Jerome affirm ( Onomast . 
s. v.’Afitvtrep, Abenezer) that it lay between Jerusa- 
lem and Ashkelon, near juxta) Bethshe- | 

mesh. Now Bethshemesli stands on a low ridge on 
the south side of the rich valley of Sorar. On the op- 
posite side of this valley, on a rising ground, about 
three miles north-west of Bethshemesli, are the ruins 
of an old village called Beit-far. The situation an- 
swers in every respect to that assigned to Beth-car; 
and the name may possibly be an Arab corruption of 
the latter. It lies in the direct route from Mizpeh to 
the plain of Philistia, and is just on the borders of the 
latter province, where a pursuing army would halt 
(Porter, Handbook for Syr. and Pal. p. 283). But, as 
this is very far from the probable site of Mizpeh (Neby- 
Samwil), it is hardly possible to fix the position of 
Eben-ezer at that of Beth-car. The monumental stone 
in question may rather have been set up at the point 
where the enemy began to flee, and we may therefore 
seek its locality nearer the lsraelitish metropolis, pos- 
sibly at the modern village Biddu , a short distance 
■west of Neby-Samwil (Robinson, Researches , ii, 133, 
note). See Siien. 

Eben-zoheleth. See Zoiieleth. 

E'ber (Ilch. id. country beyoml ), the name of 

five men. 

1. (Sept. "E/Scp and w E/3fp, Vulg. I/eber.') Eber (as 
the name should be Anglicized) was the son of Salah, 
and father of Peleg, being the third post-diluvian pa- 
triarch after Shem (Gen. x, 24; xi, 14; 1 Cliron. i, 
18, 25). R.C. 2148-1984. lie is claimed as the found- 
er of the Hebrew race (Gen. x, 21 ; Nmn. xxiv, 24). 
See Heber. In Luke iii, 35, his name (’E/J ip) is An- 
glicized Heber. 

2. (Sej)t. ’Uofiif, Vulg, Heber.) The youngest of 
the seven heads of families of the Gadites in Bashan 
(1 Cliron. v, 13 ; A. V. “ Heber”). B.C. 782. 

3. (Sept. Ti/b'/J, Vulg. Heber.) The oldest of the 
three sons of Elpaal the Benjamite, and one of those 
who rebuilt Ono and Lod, with their suburbs (1 Chron. 
viii, 12). B.C. 535. 

4. (Sept. Ti/b/(\ Vulg. Heber.) One of the heads 
of the families of Benjn mites resident at Jerusalem (1 
Chron. viii, 22 ; A. V. “ Heber”). B.C. 535. 

5. (Sept. 'A/3f£, Vulg. Heber.) The head of the 
priestly family of Amok, in the time of the return 
from exile under Zerubbabel (Neh. xii, 20). B.C. 535. 


Eber, Paul, a companion of Luther and Melancthon, 
and an eminent Hebrew scholar and theologian, was 
born at Kissingen, Nov. 8, 1511. He received his first 
instruction from his father, and continued his studies 
at Anspach. The sudden death of his mother caused 
his father to recall Paul from Anspach, and while on 
his way home he was thrown from his horse and be- 
came humpbacked. In 1526 he had so far recovered 
that he could resume his studies at Nuremberg, and in 
1532 he entered the university at Wittenberg. Here 
he was employed as amanuensis to Melancthon, with 
whom he became so intimate that he consulted him 
on all important matters, and hence Eber received the 
name of Philip’s Repository ( Reperionum Philippi). 
He was also a faithful disciple of Luther. In 153G he 
began to lecture on grammar and philosophy, and in 
1541 he accompanied Melancthon to the Diet at Worms. 
In 1544 he was appointed professor of Latin grammar, 
in 1550 dean of the philosophical faculty, and in 1551 
rector of the university. After the death of Forster 
(1556) he was appointed professor of Hebrew and 
chaplain to the royal chapel at Wittenberg. These 
positions he soon changed for others, and in 1559 he 
was made general superintendent of the electorate, 
and, as doctor of theology, a member of the theologi- 
cal faculty of the university. From this time to the 
day of his death, Dec. 16, 15G9, he devoted himself en- 
tirely to theology and to the faithful discharge of his 
duties as general superintendent of the electorate. 
After the death of Melancthon he was regarded as the 
head of the university. He took large part in the Adi- 
aphoristic and Crypto- Cal viuistic controversies, but 
always showed himself moderate and learned. His 
principal works are ; Expositio Evangelioruni (Francf. 
1576) : — Calemlarium histuricum (1551, 4 to) : — Historia 
populi jmlaici a reditu ex Babyloidco eocilio usque ad ul - 
timum excidium Jerosolymce (Witeb.,1458 ; new ed. 1562, 
and transl. into German, French, and Dutch): — Un- 
terricht n. Bekenntn. vom h. Sacrament des Leibs u. Bluts 
unseres Perm (Wittb. 1562) : — Biblia Latina (Vitemb. 
1565) : — Expositio Evemgelicorum Dominiccdium (Francf. 
1576). — Hoefer, Xour. Biog. Gener. xv, 599 sq. ; Her- 
zog, Real-Encykl . iii, 618 sq. ; Plank, Gesch. der pro- 
test. Theol. iv, Theil i (Lpz. 1798), 448-525; Sixt, Paul 
Eber (Heidelb. 1843, and another book by the same 
author, Anspach, 1857) ; Pressel, Paul Eber nach gleich - 
zeitigen Quellen (1862) ; Bibl. Sacra, xx, 644 sq. 

Eberliard, Joiiann August, a Rationalistic theo- 
logian of Germany, was born in 1739 at Halberstadt. 
He studied theology at Halle, and was in succession 
preacher at Halberstadt, Berlin, and Charlottenburg. 
The latter position he obtained by express order of 
king Friedrich II. In 1778 lie was appointed pro- 
fessor of philosophy at Halle, where he opposed the 
idealism of Kant and Fichte. He died in 1809. Eber- 
hard is a representative of what is called “the vulgar 
Rationalistic school” ( Vulgar - Rationedismus). He 
wrote a considerable number of theological, philosoph- 
ical, historical, and other works. Among his theolog- 
ical works are : Niue Apologia cks Soci'ates (Berlin, 
1772, 3d ed. 1788): — Yorbereitnvg zur natitrl. TIuologie 
(Halle, 1781) : — Geist des Urchristenthums (Halle, 1807 
-1808); and Sittenlehre der Vernuvft (Berlin, 1781). — 
Brockhaus, Conversations-Lex. s. v. (A. J. S.) 

Eberlin, Anton, one of the German reformers, 
was born in Swabia towards the end of the 15th cen- 
tury. lie entered the Franciscan order, ami was cho- 
sen preacher of the Franciscan convent at Tubingen, 
from which, in consequence of some difficiiltes, he was, 
in 1519, transferred to Ulm. Here he became ae- 
i qnainted with Luther’s writings, and having adopted 
his doctrines, had to leave Ulm in 1521. Repairing 
to Basle, he became very popular, but was driven away 
by the bishop of Basle. lie found an asylum with Ul- 
rich von 1 kitten and Francis of Sickingen, and wrote 
I with them several works on ecclesiastical and monas- 


EBERT 


21 


EBIONITES 


tical abuses. In 1522 he came to Wittenberg, where 
lie became personally acquainted with Luther and with 
Melanctlion, under the influence of whose teaching he 
wrote in the same year his Vom J Hssbrauche christli- 
cher Freiheit, breathing a charitable spirit. In 1524 he 
went to Erfurt, where he preached for some time, and 
thence to AVertheim on the Main (152G). He died 
soon after. His works, to the number of 34, were 
mostly of local interest ; among the others, the most 
important one, entitled Wie sick eyn Diener Gottes worts 
ym all seynem thun halten soil (Wittenberg, 1525, 4to), 
has seen several editions, and can be found in A. II. 
Franke, Monita pastoralia. See Dellinger, d. Refor- 
mation, etc. i, 205 ; Strobel, Liter. Museum , i,3G5 ; Her- 
zog, Real-EncyUop. iii, G20. 

Ebert, Jacob, an eminent Hebrew scholar, was 
born at Sprottau in 1540. He was professor of He- 
brew and theology at the university then in Frankfort 
on the Oder, now in Berlin, and at one time its rector 
magnifeus. So versed was he in Hebrew that he 
could write in that language. He died in 1G14. His 
works are, Historia Juramentorum (Frankfort on the 
Oder, 1588, 8vo) : — Institutio intelledus cum elegantia 
(ibid. 1507) : — Electa Hebreca 750 a lihro Rabbinico Mib- 
char Ilapheninim (1G30, 12mo): — Tetrasticha Hebrcra 
in textus evangelicos , etc. — Hoefer, Nouv. Bioy. Gem-rale, 
xv, GOO sq. (J. H. W.) 

Ebert, Theodor, son of Jacob Ebert (q. v.), suc- 
ceeded his father as professor of Hebrew at the univers- 
ity in Frankfort on the Oder. He shared also the hon- 
or of being rector with his father. Ebert died in 1630. 
Among his principal works are, Vita Christi , tribus de 
curiis rhythmorum quadratorum hebraicorum (Frankf. 
on the Oder, lG15,4to): — AnimaJv. psalticai'um Centuria 
(1G10, 4to): — Manuductiones aphoristic ad discursnm 
artium. sectiones xvi (1G20, 4to) : — Chronologia pracipu- 
crum Lingua Sancta Doctorum, ab O. C. ad suam usque 
mtatem (1G20, 4to) : — Eulogia jnrisconsultorum et politi- 
corum qui lingunm hebraiewn et reliquas orientates .ex- 
colnerunt (1628): — Poetica Ilebraica (1038, 8vo), in 
which the Hebrew metres are more extensively exem- 
plified than in any other work. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Gen. xv, G10 ; Etheridge, Jntr. to Ileb. Literature , p. 374. 

Ebi'asaph (Heb. Ehyasaph' , prob. a con- 
traction for Abiasapk; Sept. ’Afiiaadtp and 

’AfitvcKj), Vulg. Abiasaph), the son of Elkanah and fa- 
ther of Assir, in the genealogy of the Kohathite Le- 
vites (1 Chron. vi, 23). B.C. cir. 1GG0. In ver. 37 he 
is called the son of lvorah, from a comparison of which 
circumstance with Exod. vi, 24, most interpreters have 
identified him with the Abiasaph (q. v.) of the latter 
passage; but (unless we there understand not three 
sons of lvorah to be meant, but only three in regular 
descent), the pedigrees of the two cannot be made to 
tally without violence. See Assir. From 1 Chron. 
ix, 19, it appears that he had a son named Ivore. In 
1 Chron. xxvi, 1, his name is abbreviated to Asapii. 

Ebionites, a sect of Judaizing Christians who re- 
ceived the doctrines of the Gospel very partially, and 
denied the divine nature of Christ. They do not ap- 
pear to have been at any time numerous, and it is 
doubtful whether they ever obtained such consistency 
as to have a definite creed. 

1. The Name . — The name is derived from the He- 
brew' poor. This term was anciently applied 

in derision to Christians in general (Epiphanius, adv. 
Ilaer. xxix, 1), and came later to designate Jewish 
Christians (Origen, cont. Celsum, ii, 1). Fiirst (Lexi- 
con, s. v.) makes the derivation refer to Matt, v, 3, 
making “Ebionites” equivalent to “opp-essed pious 
exiles” (Isa. xxv, 4). Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. iii, 27) 
fancifully derives the name from “the poverty and 
meanness of the Ebionite doctrine concerning Christ.” 
Tertullian (De Prrrsrrip. Ilceret. c. xxxiii) derives it 
from a founder, Ebion, who maintained the authority 


of the Jewish law, and rejected the miraculous concep- 
tion and divine nature of spirit. The derivation first 
above given is now generally adopted. 

2. History. — Dorner (Person of Christ , Edinb. transl. 
i, 189 sq.) traces the Ebionitish tendency as far back 
as the Epistle to the Hebrews. “From that zeal for 
the law r with 'which Paul had to contend, the Judaiz- 
ing spirit was led not at first to impeach the Christol- 
ogy, but rather the Soteriology, or the work of Christ. 
But the consequence of the legal stand-point soon 
shov r ed itself. The party which the Epistle to the 
Hebrews had in view must have over-estimated the 
law of the O. T. regarding holy times, places, acts, and 
persons alike, and have been wanting in the Christian 
knowledge which knov r s how to secure to the O. T. its 
abiding significancy, which it has as a divine institute 
without imperilling the newness and conclusive com- 
pleteness of Christianity.” Epiphanius traces the or- 
igin of Ebionitism to the Christians who fled to Pella 
after the destruction of Jerusalem, A. I). 6G (adv. liar. 
xxix, 1). According to Hegesippus (Hist. Eccles. iv, 
22), one Thebutis, at Jerusalem, about the beginning 
of the second century, “began to corrupt the Church 
secretly on account of his not being made a bishop.” 
“AA r e find the sect of the Ebionites in Palestine and 
the surrounding regions, on the island of Cyprus, in 
Asia Minor, and even in Rome. Though it consisted 
mostly of Jews, Gentile Christians also sometimes at- 
tached themselves to it. It continued into the fourth 
century, but at the time of Theodoret was entirely ex- 
tinct. It used a Hebrew Gospel, now lost, which was 
probably a corruption of the Gospel of Matthew” 
(Scliaff, Church History , i, § G8, p. 214). 

3. Doctrines. — Dr. Scliaff sharply distinguishes Ebi- 
onism from Gnosticism as follows: “Ebionism is a 
Judaizing, pseudo-Petrine Christianity, or a Christian- 
izing Judaism ; Gnosticism is a paganizing or pseudo- 
Pauline Christianity, or a pseudo-Christian heathen- 
ism. The former is a particularistic contraction of 
the Christian religion ; the latter a vague expansion 
of it” (Church Histori/, i, § G7). According to the same 
writer, “ the characteristic marks of Ebionism in all 
its forms are, degradation of Christianity to the level 
of Judaism, the principle of the universal and perpet- 
ual validity of the Mosaic law, and enmity to the apos- 
tle Paul. But, as there were different sects in Juda- 
ism itself, we have also to distinguish at least two 
branches of Ebionism, related to each other, as Phari- 
saism and Essenism, or, to use a modern illustration, 
as the older deistic and the speculative pantheistic ra- 
tionalism in Germany, or the two schools of Unitarian- 
ism in England and America. (1.) The common Ebi- 
onites, who were by far the more numerous, embodied 
the Pharisaic legal spirit, and were the proper success- 
ors of the Judaizers opposed in the epistle to the Gala- 
tians. Their doctrine may be reduced to the follow- 
ing propositions: (a.) Jesus is, indeed, the promised 
Messiah, the son of David, and the supreme lawgiver, 
yet a mere man, like Moses and David, sprung by nat- 
ural generation from Joseph and Mary. The sense of 
his Messianic calling first arose in him at his baptism 
by John, when a higher spirit joined itself to him. 
Ilence Origen compared this sect to the blind man in 
the Gospel who called to the Lord without seeing him, 
‘Thou son of David, have mercy on me!’ (6.) Cir- 
cumcision and the observance of the whole ritual law 
of Moses are necessary to salvation for all men. (c.) 
Paul is an apostate and heretic, and all his epistles arc 
to be discarded. The sect considered him a native 
heathen, who came over to Judaism in later life from 
impure motives, (d.) Christ is soon to come again 
to introduce the glorious millennial reign of the Mes- 
siah, with the earthly Jerusalem for its seat. (2.) 
The second class of Ebionites, starting with Essenic 
notions, gave their Judaism a speculative or theosophie 
Stamp, like the errorists of the Epistle to the Colos- 
sians. They form the stepping-stone to Gnosticism. 


EBNERIAN MANUSCRIPT 


22 


EBONY 


Among these belong the FJkesaites” (SeliafF, Ch. Hist, i, 
G3, 214 S(j.). The pseudo-Clementine homilies teach 
a speculative form of Ebionism, essentially Judaizing 
in spirit and aim [see Clementines, ii, p. 333] ; and i 
comp. Sch a If, Ch. History , i, § 69 ; Dorncr, Person of 
Christ , Kdinb. transl., p. 203 sq.). 

4. Ebionism has reappeared, since the Reformation, 
in Socinianism (q. v.), and in the other forms of what 
is called Unitarianism (q. v.). Some Unitarian writ- 
ers have undertaken to show that Ebionism was the 
original form of Christian doctrine, and that the Church 
doctrine as to the person of Christ was a later develop- 
ment ; so Priestley, in his History of the Corruptions 
of Christianity (Birmingham, 1732). Bishop llorslev 
replied to Priestley in his Charge to the Clergy of St. 
Albans (1733), and* in other tracts, collected in Tracts \ 
in Controversy with I)r. Priestley (Dundee, 1312, 3d ed.). 
llorslev, in this controversy, made nse of Bull's learn- 
ed treatment of the subject in his reply to Zwicker (sec | 
Bull, On the Trinity , Oxford, 1855, 3 vols. : i, 11G; ii, 
37 G ; iii, 175 et al. See also Watcrland, JForfo, Oxf. 
1843, C vols. : iii, 554 sq.). A far abler advocate of the 
Socinian view is Baur, in his Christenthum d. drei ersten 
.1 ahrhunderte ; Lchre v. d. Dre'emigheit Gottes; Dogmcn- 
geschichte , etc. Baur’s position is clearly stated, and 
refuted by professor Fisher (.4 in. Presb. and Theolog. 
Pev. Oct. 18G4, art. i). “ Baur agrees with the old 

Socinians in the statement that the Jewish Christian- 
ity of the apostolic age was Ebionite. But, unlike 
them, he holds that we find within the canon a great 
departure from, and advance upon, this humanitarian 
doctrine of Christ’s person. 11c professes to discover 
in the New Testament the consecutive stages of a 
progress which, beginning with the Unitarian creed, 
terminates in the doctrine of Christ’s proper divinity. 
There occurred at the end, or before the end, of the 
apostolic age, a reaction of the Jewish Christianity, 
which with Baur is identical with the Judaizing or 
Ebionite element ; and this type of Christianity pre- 
vailed through the larger part of the second eentmy.” 
(See Fisher, l. c., for a criticism of this view, and for 
a brief but luminous sketch of Ebionism. On the 
other side, see X. Amer. Ret\ April, 1864, p. 5G9 sq.). 

Literature. — See, besides the works already cited, 
Ircmeus, Ilccr. i, 2G (Antc-Xicene Library, v, 07) ; 
(iieseler, Ueber die Xazarder und Ebioniten, in Archiv 
fiir A. & N. Kirchcng., iv, 279 sq. (Eeipsig, 1320); 
Mosheim, Commentaries , i, 220, 400 ; Neander, Church 
Ilist. i, 314, 350; Schliemann, Die Clementincn (I Iamb. 
1344), ]>. 3G2 sq. ; Herzog, Renl-Encyklopiidie , iii, G21 
sq. ; Martensen. Dogmatics (Edinburgh, 18GG), § 128; 
Sliedd, History of Doctrines , i, 10G sq. ; Burton, Ecclcs. 
History , Beet, xi; Burton, Bampton Lectures (Oxford, 
1820), notes 73-84. 

Ebnerian Manuscript (Codf.x Ebneriaxus, 
usually designated as No. 105 of the Gospels, 48 of the 
Acts, and 24 of the Pauline Epistles), a beautiful cur- 
sive Greek MS. of thp entire N. T. except Rev., con- 
sisting of 425 quarto vellum leaves; assigned to the 
12th century ; formerly belonging to Jerome Elmer von 
Eschcnbach, of Nuremberg, and now in the Bodleian 
Li briny (No. 130). A fae-simile and description arc 
given by Trcgelles, in Home’s Ditrod. p. 220. See 
Manuscripts, Biblical. 

Eboda (’F/3o<V), a citv mentioned only by Ptole- 
my (xvii, 13 ) as situated in the sea-hoard quarter of 
Arabia Petriea (see Reland, Pthrst. p. 463), in G5J° 
and 30^°, and marked on the Peutinger Table as lying 
on the Roman road 23 Roman miles S. of Elusa (q. v.). 
Dr. Robinson ( Researches , i, 287) discovered the site 
in the modern eUAbdeh (otherwise A ujeh, ih. p. 560), 
eight hours from the site of Elusa, at the junction of 
Wady cs-Scram with Wadv cl-llirein (ib. p. 284). It 
contains extensive ruins, situated on a rocky ridge 
from sixty to one hundred feet high; especially the 
remains of an acropolis, of a capacious castle, and of a 


large Greek church, with numerous walls, columns, 
etc., still standing, and several wells or reservoirs, 
but no inhabitants (ib. p. 285, 28G). 

Ebony (fl'Z'nfiobni', stony, q.d. stone-wood [comp, 
the Germ. Steinholz , “ fossil -wood”], only m the plur. 

hnlniin [text D" , 2Z“n for hobenim'~\, 

Sept, [by some confusion or misinterpretation, see Ro- 
senmuller, Schol. in loc.] tqiq tiaayopkroic, Sym ma- 
ck ns tfiivovc, Vulg. [dentes] hebeninos ) occurs only in 
one passage of Scripture, where the prophet Ezekiel 
(xxvii, 15), referring to the commerce of Tyre, says, 

“ The men of Dedan were thy merchants ; many Lies 
were the merchandise of thine hand: they brought 
thee for a present horns of ivory and ebony." See De- 
dan. The Hebrew word is translated “ebony” in all 
the European versions ; but, as Boehart states ( Hvroz . 
i, 2d, part ii), the Chaldee version, followed by R. 3c- 
lomo and other Jews, as well as the Greek and Ara- 
bic versions, render it by peafowl ( pavones ). Some 
of the Hebrew critics, however, as Kimchi, also ac- 
knowledge that Arabian ebony is meant. Of the cor- 
rectness of this opinion there can now be no doubt. 
In the first place, we may allude to Dedan being con- 
sidered one of the ports of Aral ia on the Persian Gulf, 
or at least to the south of the Red Sea; and, second- 
ly, as observed by Boehart, the terms hobnhn and ebony 
I are very similar, the latter word being variously writ- 
ten by ancient authors, as ifii v?j y tf3erog , t/jfrou, ebe- 
nus and hebenus. The last form is used by Jerome in 
bis Latin, and tfitvoc bv Symmachus in bis Greek 
version. The Arabs have alnus. which they apply 
to ebony, and by that name it is known in Northern 
India at the present day. Forskal mentions abnits as 
one of the kinds of wood imported in his time from 
India into Arabia. Whether the Arabic name be a 
corruption of the Greek, or the Greek a modification, 

I as is most likely, of some Eastern name, we require 
! some other evidence besides the occurrence of the 
word in Arabie works on materia medica to deter- 
mine, since in these Greek words arc sometimes em- 
ployed as the principal terms for substances with 
which they are not well acquainted. Bardust is, how- 
ever, given by some as the Aral ic name, abjius as the 
Persian. Naturalists have found the. latter applied to 
ebony in north-west India, as did Forskal on the Red 
Sea. 

Ehonv wood was highly esteemed by the ancients, 
and employed by them for a variety of purposes (Thc- 
ophr. IJist. PL iv, 5 ; Plin. 11. X. vi, 30, § 35 ; xii, 4, § 8, 
9 ; Strabo, xv, 703 ; Paiisan. i, 42, 5 : viii, 17, 2 ; ( >vid, 
i Met. xi, G10 ; compare Barhebr. Chron. p. 131). It is 
very appropriately placed in juxtaposition with ivory, 
on account of the beautiful contrast in color. Ivory 
and ebony are probably, however, also mentioned to- 
I gather because both were obtained from the same 
I countries, Ethiopia and India; and. among the com- 
paratively few articles of ancient commerce, must, 

I from this* cause, always have been associated together, 

I while tlieir contrast of color and joint employment in 
inlaid work would contribute as additional reasons for 
their being adduced as articles characteristic of a dis- 
tinct commerce. But it is not in Ezekiel only that 
J ebony and ivory aic mentioned together, for Diodorus, 
as quoted by Boehart, tells us that an ancient king of 
Egypt imposed on the Ethiopians the payment of a 
tribute of ebony, gold, and elephant*' teeth. So He- 
rodotus (iii, 97), as translated by Boehart, says. “gEthi- 
opes Persia pro triennali trilmto vehunt duos choeniccs 
auri apvri (id est , ignem nondum experti ), et duccutas 
eheni phalangas, et magnos elephanti dentes viginti.” 
Plinv, referring to this passage, remarks, “ But Herod- 
otus assigneth it rather to Ethiopia, and saitli that 
every three years the Ethiopians were wont to pay, by 
way of tribute, unto the kings of Persia, 100 billets of 
the* timber of that tree (that is, ebene), together with 
gold and yvoric;” and again, “From Svciie (which 


EBONY 


23 


EBONY 


confineth and boundeth the lands of. our empire and 
dominion) as farre as to the island Meroe, for the space 
of 99G miles, there is little ebene found : and that in 
all those parts betwecnc there be few other trees to be 
found but date-trees, which peradventurc may be a 
cause that ebene was counted a rich tribute, and de- 
served the third place, after gold and ivorie” (Hol- 
land's Pliny, xii, 4). It is sometimes stated that the 
ancients supposed ebony to come only from India. 
This arose probably from the passage of Virgil (Georg, 
ii, 117): “Sola India nigrum fert cbenum.” But the 
term “ India” had often a very wide signification, and 
included even Ethiopia. Several of the ancients, how- 
ever, mention both Indian and Ethiopian ebony, as Di- 
oscorides and I ’liny ; while some mention the Indian, 
and others the Ethiopian only, as Lucan ( Phars . x, 304) : 
“Nigris Meroe fecunda colon is, liet a comis ebeni.” 

The only objection to the above conclusion of any 
^weight is, that hobnim is in the plural form. To this 
Bochart and others have replied, that there were two 
kinds of ebony, as mentioned by Theophrastus, Dios- 
corides, etc., one Ethiopian, the other Indian. Fuller 
and others maintain that the plural form is employed 
because the ebony was in pieces : “Refertad ebeni pa- 
langas, quae ex India et ^Ethiopia magno numero af- 
ferebantur. <I>dXayyac voeunt Herodotus et Arrianus 
in Periplo. Plinius pedanyas, aut phtdangas, variante 
seriptnra. id est, fustes teretes, ct qui navibus snppo- 
nuntur, aut quibus idem onus plures bajulant” (Bo- 
chart, l. c.). But the names of other valued foreign 
woods, as Shittim and Almuggim, are also used in the 
plural form. Besides abnus , Arab authors, as stated 
by Bochart (/. c.), mention other words as similar to 
and substituted for ebony : one of these is called shiz, 
sh/zl; also snsem and semsem , in the plural form semasim , 
described as “ nigrum lignum ad patinas conficiendas.” 
lienee, in the Koran, those who are tormented in Ge- 
henna, it is said, will issue from the fire after a cer- 
tain period of confinement in it: “They will go forth, 
I say, like the w r ood semasim that is, black, from be- 
ing burnt in the fire. That such a wood was known 
w r e have the testimony of Dioscorides : “ Some sell ses- 
amine or acanthine wood for ebony, as they are very 
similar.” Some critics, and even Sprengel, in his late 
edition of Dioscorides, read (jvKupiva instead of oi]od- 
piva, for no other reason apparently but because avKa - 
java denotes a tree wdth which European scholars are 
acquainted, wdiile sesamina is only known to those who 
consult Oriental writers, or who are acquainted with 
the products of the East. Bochart rightly reprehends 
this alteration as being unnecessary, in view of the ex- 
istence of the words sesamina , sasim , or semsem among 
the modern Arabs, and cites a notice of Arrian to the 
same effect (Bochart, 1. c.). The above word is by Dr. 
Vincent translated sesamnm ; but this is an herbaceous 
oil-plant. 

If we look to the modern history of ebony, we shall 
find that it is still derived from more than one source. 
Thus Mr. IToltzappfel, in ‘his recent w ork on Turning, 
describes three kinds of ebony. (1.) One from the 
Mauritius, in round sticks like scaffold poles, seldom 
exceeding fourteen inches in diameter, the blackest 
and finest in the grain, the hardest and most beautiful. 
(2.) The East Indian, wdiich is grown in Ceylon and 
the Peninsula of India, and exported from Madras 
and Bombay in logs from six to twenty, and some- 
times even twenty-eight inches in diameter, and also 
in planks. This is less wasteful, but of an inferior 
grain and color to the above. (3.) The African, ship- 
ped from the Cape of Good Hope in billets, the general 
size of which is from three to six feet long, three to 
six inches broad, and tw'O to four inches thick. This 
is the least wasteful, as all the refuse is left behind ; 
but it is the most porous, and the w r orst in point of 
color. No Abyssinian ebony is at present imported : 
this, however, is more likely to be owing to the differ- 
ent routes which commerce has taken, although it is 


again returning to its ancient channels, than to the 
w^ant of ebony in the ancient Ethiopia. From the na- 
ture of the climate, and the existence of forests in 
which the elephant abounds, there can be no doubt of 
its being well suited to the group of plants which have 
been found to yield the ebony of Mauritius, Ceylon, 
and India, the genus Diospyrus of botanists. Of this 
several species yield varieties of ebony as their heart- 
wood , as D. ebenum in the Mauritius, and also in Cey- 
lon, where it is called kaluwara. It is described by 
Retz “foliis ovato-laneeolatis, acuminatis, gemmis 
hirtis;” and he quotes as identical D. glaberrima (Fr. 
Rottb. Nov. Act. JIavn. ii, 540, tab. 5). I). ebenaster 

yields the bastard ebony of Ceylon, and D. hirsuta the 
Calamander w'ood of the same island, described by Mr. 
Holtzappfel as of a chocolate-brown color, with black 
stripes and marks, and stated by him to be considered 
a variety of ebony. D.melanorylon of Dr. Roxburgh 
is the ebony-tree of Coromandel, and is figured among 
Coromandel plants (i, No. 4G) ; it grows to be a large 
tree in the mountainous parts of Ceylon, and in the 
Peninsula of India — in Malabar, Coromandel, and 
Orissa. The black part of the wood of this tree alone 
forms ebony, and is found only in the centre of large 
trees, and varies in quantity according to the size and 
age of the tree. The outside wood is white and soft,, 
and is soon destroyed by time and insects, leaving the 
black untouched (Roxb. FI. bid. ii, 530). Besides 
these, there is in the Peninsula of India ’a wood called 
blachcood by the English, and sit-sal by the natives : 
it grow r s to. an immense size, is heavy, close-grained, 
of a greenish-black color, with lighter-colored veins 
running in various directions. It is yielded by r the 
Dalbergia latifolia. To the same genus belongs the 
Sissu, one of the most valued woods of India, and of 
which the tree has been called Dalbergia sissu. The 
wood is remarkably strong, of a light grayish hue, 
with darker -colored veins. It is called sissu and 
shishum by the natives of India. This is the name 
which we believe is referred to by Arab authors, and 
which also appears to have been the original of the 
sesamina of Dioscorides and of the Peri plus. The 
name may be applied to other nearly allied woods, 
and therefore, perhaps, to that of the above D. latifo- 
lia. It is a curious confirmation of this that Forskiil 
mentions that in his time shishum , with teak and eb- 
ony, was among the woods imported from India and 
Arabia. It is satisfactory to have apparently such 
competent confirmation of the general accuracy of 
ancient authors, when we fully understand the sub- 
jects and the products of the countries to w hich they 
allude (Kitto, s. v.). According to Sir E. Tennent 
(Ceylon, i, 11G) the following trees yield ebony : Dios- 
pyros ebenum , I). reticulata, D. ebenaster , and D. hir- 
suta. The wood of the first-named tree, which is 
abundant throughout all the flat country to the west 



Branch of Diosjjyrus Ebenum. 


EBRALDINES 


24 


ECBATANA 


of Trincomali, “excels all others in the evenness I 
and intensity of its color. The centre of the trunk 
is- the only portion which furnishes the extremely 
black part which is the ebony of commerce ; but the 
trees are of such magnitude that reduced logs of two | 
feet in diameter, and varying from ten to twelve feet j 
in length, can readily be procured from the forests at 
Trincomali” ( Ceylon , 1. c.) It bears a berry that is 
eaten by the natives when ripe. The leaves are ellip- 
tical, having numerous veins. The corolla or colored 
part is shaped like an antique vase, and bears eight 
stamens (Kitto, Piet. Bible , in loc. Ezek.). There is 
every reason for believing that the ebony afforded by 
the biospyros ebenum was imported from India or Cey- ! 
Ion by Phoenician traders, though it is equally proba- 
ble that the Tyrian merchants were supplied with eb- | 
ony from trees which grew in Ethiopia (Smith, s. v.). 
See Tyre. (See Smith’s Viet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. 
Ebenus ; Penny Cyclop, s. v. Ebony ; Geiger, Pharma - 
cent. Botanik , i, C97). See Botany. 

Ebraldines, Order of the. See Fontevrauld. 

Ebrardus, an author and theologian of Betlmne, 
in France, who lived during the latter part of the 12th 
century and the beginning of the 13th. He is known 
only by his writings. One of the principal of these, 
his Gratis mns, a collection of rules of rhetoric, proso- 
dy, grammar, and logic, was for many years used as a 
text-book. His principal theological works are Liber 
antihreresis against the Cathari, which was first pub- 
lished under the title Contra Waldenses in Gretser’s 
Trias scriptorum contra Waldenses (Ingolstadt, 1G14, 
4to), and reprinted in Bibl.Patr. JIax. (of Lyons, vol. 
xxiv), and lastly in Gretser’s Opera Omnia (vol. xii, 
part ii). — II erzog, Real-Encyklopddie, iii, G25. 

Ebremar or Evermer, the third Latin patriarch 
of Jerusalem, was born at Cickes, near Terouanne, to- 
wards the close of the 11th century. Admitted by Lam- 
bert, bishop of Arras, to the priesthood, he joined the 
first Crusaders, and was of the number appointed by 
Godfrey de Bouillon canon at the holy sepulchre. In 
1103, on the deposition of Daimbert (q. v.), he was ele- 
vated to the patriarchate, in which, after much con- 
tention on the part of Daimbert, he was solemnly con- 
firmed ln r the decree of a council. He was a member 
of the Council of Nablous (1120), and in 1123 signed 
the treaty between the crusading princes and the Ye- , 
netians. A letter of this prelate, with the response by 
Lambert of Arras, is contained in the 5th vol. of the 
JJiseellanea of Baluze. — Hoefer, Xouv. Bioy. Ginirule , 
xv, G18. 

Ebro'nah (Heb. Abronnh' , fry "'ZV, passage, i. e. 
of the sea ; Sept. ’E fipiovu), the thirtieth station of the 
Israelites on their way from Egypt to Canaan (Nnm. 
xxxiii, 31, 35). Since it lay near Ezion-Gaber on the 
west, as they left Jotbathnh, it was probably in the 
plain now known as the Ka'a en-Nukb , immediately 
opposite the pass of the same name at the head of the 
Elanitie branch of the Bed Sea (see Bobinson’s Map 
in Researches , vol. i). Bommcl (in the Hall. Encyklop. 
i, 1G7) compares the A vara of Ptolemy (v. 17), in Ara- 
bia IVtraui (GG° 10' and 29° 40'), with the Hararra 
of the Pmtinger Table; a very improbable supposition. 
Knobol thinks ( Excg . Jlandb. in loc.) that the Ezion- 
Gaber in question cannot he the port of that name at the 
head of the Elanitie Gulf; for, as the next station men- 
tioned is Kadesh, this was too far from the north end 
of the gulf to be reached in one march ; but this objec- 
tion is of little force, as there is no uniformity in the 
intervals between the stations. Schwarz ( Palest . p. 
213) rightly regards Ebronah as merely the name of a 
“M." by which the people perhaps crossed this arm 
of tin 1 sea (!), or where travellers usually crossed it. 

Ebutius (’E/3ocnoc), a decurion {oekciq\i}^), and 
a person distinguished for good judgment and prompt 
action, who was sent with Placidus by Vespasian to 


invest Jotapata while garrisoned by Josephus (Jose- 
phus, War, iii, 7, 3). He was slain while defending 
Vespasian from a furious sally during the siege of 
G a mala ( ib . iv, 1, 5). 

Eca'nus (Vulg. id., the Gr. text being lost), one 
of the five swift scribes who were selected to attend 
Esdras (2 Esdr. xiv, 21). 

Ecbat'ana (1 Esdr. vi, 23) or “Ecbat'ane” (rd 
’EKjJarava, 2 Macc. ix, 3; Judith i, 1 sq. ; Tob. v, 9, 
etc. ; comp. Josephus, Ant. x, 11, 7 ; xi, 1, 6; ’Ay/Idr- 
ava in Ctesias i; 'Herod, i, 98; ii, 153), the metropo- 
lis of Media (Curt, v, 81), situated 88° and 37° 45', 
according to Ptolemy (vi, 2, 11), and after the time of 
Cyrus (Strabo, xi, 522 sq. ; Pausan. iv, 21, 1 ; Xenoph. 
Cyr. viii, G, 22; Anab. iii, 5, 15) two months in the 
year the residence of the Persian (later the Parthian) 
kings. It is somewhat doubtful whether the name of 
this place is really contained in the Hebrew Scrip- 
tures. Many of the best commentators understand 
i the expression in Ezra vi, 2, differently, 

and translate it in area, “ in a coffer” (see Buxtorf 
and others, and so our English Bible in the margin). 
The Sept., however, give iv ttoXh, “in a city,” or (in 
1 some MSS.) iv ’A/mOii iv ttuXei , which favors the or- 
dinary interpretation. If a city is meant, there is lit- 
tle doubt of one of the two Ecbatanas being intended ; 
for, except these towns, there was no place in the 
province of the Medes “ which contained a palace” 
(rp“2), or where records are likely to have been de- 
posited. The name Achmetha , too, which at first sight 
seems somewhat remote from Ecbatana, wants but one 
letter of Hagmatana , which was the native appella- 
tion. The earlier and more correct Greek form of the 
name, too, was Agbatana (see Stepli. Byz. p. 19 ; comp. 
AVesseling ad Ilerod. iii, G5). Lassen (Bibliolh. iii, 3G) 
regards the name as Zendish, Aghica-Tana, “land rich 
in horses.” Hyde (l)e rcl. vet. Pers. p. 511 sq.) com- 
pares it with the Persic Abadan, “cultivated place;” 
llgen (on Tobit, 1. c.) regards it as Shemitic ; compare 
Syr. Cham tana, “fortress.” For other etymologies, 
see Simon is Onom. V. T. p. 578 sq. ; Gesenius, Thes. 
p. 70. 

Two cities of the name of Ecbatana seem to have 
existed in ancient times, one the capital of Northern 
Media, the Media Atropatenk of Strabo; the other the 
metropolis of the larger and more important province 
known as Media Magna (see Sir II. Bawlinson’s paper 
on the Atropatcnian Ecbatana, in the 10th volume of 
the Journal of the Geographical Society , art. ii). The 
site of the former appears to be marked by the very 
curious ruins at Takht i-Suleiman (hit. 36° 28', long. 
17° 9') ; while that of the latter is occupied by Ilama- 
dctn, which is one of the most important cities of mod- 
ern Persia. There is generally some difficulty in de- 
termining, when Ecbatana is mentioned, whether the 
northern or the southern metropolis is intended. Few 
writers are aware of the existence of the. two cities, 
and they lie sufficiently near to one another for geo- 
graphical notices in most cases to suit either site. The 
northern city was the “seven-walled town” described 
by Herodotus, and declared bv him to have been the 
capital of Cyrus (Herod, i, 98-99, 153; comp. Mos. 
Choren. ii, 81); and it was thus most probably there 
| that the roll was found which proved to Darius that 
Cyrus had really made a decree allowing the Jews to 
rebuild their Temple. 

Various descriptions of the northern city have come 
down to ns, hut none of them is completely to he de- 
pended on. That of the Zeudavesta (Vendidad, Far- 
gard II) is the oldest and the least exaggerated, 
j “ Jcmshid,” it is said, “erected a var , or fortress, suf- 
l ficiently large, and formed of squared blocks of stone ; 
he assembled in the place a vast population, and 
j stocked the surrounding country with cattle for their 
I use. He caused the water of the great fortress to 


ECBATANA 


25 


ECBATANA 


flow forth abunclantty. And within the var, or for- 
tress, he erected a lofty palace, encompassed with 
walls, and laid it out in many separate divisions, and 
there was no place, either in front or rear, to command 
and overawe the fortress.” Herodotus, who ascribes 
the foundation of the city to his king Deioces, says : 
“The Medes were obedient to Deioces, and built the 
city now called Agbatana, the walls of which are of 
great size and strength, rising in circles one within 
the other. The plan of the place is that each of the 
walls should out-top the one beyond it by the battle- 
ments. The nature of the ground, which is a gentle 
hill, favors this arrangement in some degree, but it was 
mainly effected by art. The number of the circles 
is seven, the royal palace and the treasuries standing 
within the last. The circuit of the outer wall is near- 
ly the same with that of Athens. Of this outer wall 
the battlements are white, of the next black, of the 
third scarlet, of the fourth blue, of the fifth orange : 
all these are colored with paint. The last two have 
their battlements coated respectivety with silver and 
gold. All these fortifications Deioces caused to be 
raised for himself and his own palace. 

The people were required to build their 
dwellings outside the circuit of the 
walls” (Ilerod. i, 98, 99). Finally, the 
book of Judith, probably the work of 
an Alexandrian Jew, professes to give 
a number of details, which appear to be 
drawn chiefly from the imagination of 
the writer (Jud. i, 2-4). 

The peculiar feature of the site of 
Takht i- Suleiman, which it is proposed 
to identify with the northern Ecbatana, 
is a conical hill rising to the height of 
about 150 feet above the plain, and cov- 
ered both on its top and sides with mas- 
sive ruins of the most antique and prim- 
itive character. A perfect enceinte, 
formed of large blocks of squared stone, 
may be traced round the entire hill 
along its brow; within there is an oval 
inclosure, about 800 yards in its great- 
est and 400 in its least diameter, strewn 
with ruins, which cluster round a re- 
markable lake. This is an irregular ba- 
sin, about 300 paces in circuit, filled with water exqui- 
sitely clear and pleasant to the taste, which is supplied 
in some unknown way from below, and which stands 
uniformly at the same level, whatever the quantity tak- 
en from it for irrigating the lands which lie at the foot 
of the hill. This hill itself is not perfectly isolated, 
though it appears so to those who approach it by the 
ordinary route. On three sides — the south, the west, 
and the north — the acclivity is steep, and the height 
above the plain uniform ; but on the east it abuts upon 
a hilly tract of ground, and here it is but slightly ele- 
vated above the adjoining country. It cannot, there- 
fore, have ever answered exactly to the description 
of Herodotus, as the eastern side could not anyhow 
admit of seven walls of circumvallation. It is doubt- 
ed whether even the other sides were thus defended. 
Although the flanks on these sides are covered with 
ruins, “no traces remain of any wall but the upper 
one” (As. Jour, x, 52). Still, as the nature of the 
ground on three sides would allow this style of de- 
fence, and as the account in Herodotus is confirmed 
b) r the Armenian historian, writing clearly without 
know ledge of the earlier author, it seems best to sup- 
pose that in the peaceful times of the Persian empire 
it was thought sufficient to preserve the upper enceinte, 
while the others were allowed to fall into decay, and 
ultimately were superseded by domestic buildings. 
With regard to the coloring of the walls, or, rather, 
of the battlements, -which has been considered to mark 
especially the fabulous character of Herodotus’s de- 
scription, recent discoveries show that such a mode of 


ornamentation was actually in use at the period in 
question in a neighboring country. The temple of 
the Seven Spheres at Borsippa was adorned almost 
exactly in the manner which Herodotus assigns to the 
Median capital (see Babel, Tower of); and it does 
not seem at all improbable that, with the object of 
placing the city under the protection of the seven plan- 
ets, the seven walls may have been colored nearly as 
described. Herodotus has a little deranged the order 
of the hues, which should have been either black, or- 
ange, scarlet, gold, white, blue, silver — as at the Bor- 
sippa temple — or black, white, orange, blue, scarlet, 
silver, gold — if the order of the days dedicated to the 
planets were followed. Even the use of silver and 
gold in external ornamentation — which seems at first 
sight highly improbable — is found to have prevail- 
ed. Silver roofs were met with by the Greeks at 
the southern Ecbatana (Polybius, x, 27, 10-12) ; and 
there is reason to believe that at Borsippa the gold 
and silver stages of the temple were actually coat- 
ed with those metals. (See Rawlinson, Herodotus, i, 
185.) 



Plan of Ecbatana. 

1. Remains of a Fire-Temple; 2. Ruined Mosque; 3. Ancient buildings with 
shafts and capitals; 4. Ruins of the Palace of Abakai Khan ; 5. Cemetery; 
0. Ridge of Rock called “the Dragon;” 7. Hill called “Tawilali,” or “the 
Stable;” S. Ruins of Kalisiah; 9. Rocky hill of Zindani-Suleiman. 


The northern Ecbatana continued to he an impor- 
tant place down to the 13th century after Christ. By 
the Greeks and Romans it appears to have been known 
as Gaza, Gazaca, or Canzaca, “the treasure city,” on 
account of the wealth laid up in it, while by the Ori- 
entals it was termed Shiz. Its decay is referable to 
the Mogul conquests, cir. A.D. 1200; and its final ruin 
is supposed to date from about the 15th or lGth cen- 
tury (As. Soc. Journ. x, pt. i, 49). 

In the 2d hook of Maccabees (ix, 3, etc.), the Ecba- 
tana mentioned is undoubtedly the southern city, now 
represented both in name and site by llamadun. This 
place, situated on the northern flank of the great 
mountain called formerly Oroutes, and now El wend, 
was perhaps as ancient as the other, and is far better 
known in history. If not the Median capital of Cyrus, 
it was, at any rate, regarded from the time of Darius 
H)’ , staspis as the chief city of the Persian satrapy of 
Media, and as such it became the summer residence of 
the Persian kings from Darius downwards. It was 
occupied by Alexander soon after the battle of Arbela 
(Arrian, Exp. Alex, iii, 19), and at his decease passed 
under the dominion of the Seleucuhe. In the wars 
between his successors it was more than once taken 
and retaken, each time suffering largely at the hands 
of its eonquerors (Polyb. x, 27). It was afterwards 
recognised as the metropolis of their empire by the 
Parthians (Oros. vi, 4). During the Arabian period, 
from the rise of Bagdad on the one hand and of Ispa- 
han on the other, it sank into comparative insignifi- 
cance ; but still it has never descended below the rank 


ECCARD 


26 


ECCLESIASTES 


of a provincial capital, and even in the present de- 
pressed condition of Persia it is a city of from *20,000 
to 30,000 inhabitants. The Jews, curiously enough, 
regard it as the residence of Ahasuerus (Xerxes?) — 
winch is in Scripture declared to be Susa (Estli. i, 2; 
ii, 3, etc.) — and show within its precincts the tombs 
of Esther and Mordecai (Ker Porter, ii, 105-110). It 
is not distinguished by any remarkable peculiarities 
from other Oriental cities of the same size. 

The Ecbatana of the book of Tobit is thought bv 
Sir II. Rawlinson to be the northern city (see As. Soc. 
Journ . X, i, 137-1 11). — Smith, s. v. See Aciimetiia. 
Eccard. See Eckiiard. 

Ecce Homo, a name given in art to pictures rep- 
resenting the suffering Saviour as described in John 
xix, 5: “Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown 
of thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto 
them, Behold the mail!’’ It is a comparatively recent 
subject in art, dating from the 15th century. There 
are two forms of it, viz. the devotional picture, which 
offers the single head, or half-figure of Christ, to our 
contemplation, as the “Man of Sorrows” of the Pas- 
sion, and the more or less historical picture, which ei- 
ther places him before us attended by Pilate and one 
or more attendants, or gives the full scene in numer- 
ous figures. For an account of them, see Jamieson, 
History of our Lord in Art , ii, 92 sq. 

Ecchellensis .or Echellensis, Abraiiam, a 
Maronite scholar, was born at Eckel, Syria, and was 
educated in Iiome, where he afterwards taught the 
Syriac and Arabic languages. In 1G30 lie was called 
to Paris to assist in the preparation of the great Poly- 
glot Bible of Le Jay. For this work Ecchellensis fur- 
nished Ruth in Syriac and Arabic, with a Latin trans- 
lation, and the 3d book of Maccabees in Arabic. He 
undertook also the revision of the Syriac and Arabic 
texts, and the Latin versions contributed by Gabriel 
Sionita. lie returned again to Rome to fill the chair 
of Oriental languages offered him in that city, and died 
there in 1GG4. Eechellensis’s writings are numerous ; 
among the most important are, Linguee Syriacw sive 
Chub I aiem perbrevis Instituiio (Rome, 1G28, 4to): — Sy- 
nopsis propositorum sapientice A mbit m insenptu speculum 
mundum npnrsentans , ex urabico sermone l at ini juris | 
facta (Par. 1011, 4to) : — Smicti Antonii Magni Epistohe 
viginti (Par. 1G41, Svo) : — Concilii Xicuni Prafatio , etc. I 
(Par. 1GJ5, 8vo): — Sancti Antonii Magni Reguhe, ser- 
liiones, document;!, admonitioncs, responsiones, et vita 
duplex (Paris, 1G4G, Svo): — Semita Sapientice, sive ad 
scientias comparandas methoJus (Paris, 1G4G) : — De Pro- 
2 )rietatibus et virtntibvs medicis animalium , plantarum 
etc gemmarum , tractatus triplex JIabdarrahman (Paris, 
1G47, Svo) : — Chronicon orientals nunc primum laiinitate 
donatum cui accessit supplemenfum Historic orient a l is 
(Par. 1G53, fob): — Catahgus libromm Ch'ddeorum , turn 
ecclcsiasticorum quam prof a norum , auctore Ilabed-Jcsu ' 
(Rome, 1G53, Svo), with notes : — Concordant in nntionum \ 
christianarum orient alium in fidci eatholicie dogmate 
(Mavcnce, 1G55, Svo). In this book he seeks to har- 
monize the sentiments of the Orientals with those of 
the Roman Church. Leo Allatius assisted him in his 
work. I)e Orgine nominis Paper, . . . adco de ejus pri- 
matu , etc. (Rome, 1GG0), and Eutychius vindicatus sive 
Pesponsio ad Sddcni Oriyines (Rome, 1GG1, 4to), were 
works written in the controversy against the Protes- 
tants.— llocfcr, Xouv. Bioy. Gene rale, v, G21. 

Ecclesia. See Church. 

Ecclesias Domus. See Pours. 

Ecclesiee Seniores. See Seniores. 

Eccle'siastes, the fourth of the poetical books in 
the English arrangement of the O. T., and one of those 
usually attributed to Solomon. In the IIel>. Rible it 
is the seventh and last of the first part of the -7 layio- 
graphi, Z"Il ! ir2, or fourth division of tjie Jewish 
Scriptures. In the Sept, and Vulg. it is placed be- 


tween Proverbs and Canticles, as in the A.V. See 
Rible. It is the fourth of the five M gillotk (q. v.) 
or Rolls, as they arc called by the Jews, being appoint- 
ed to be read at the Feast of Tabernacles. The form 
of the book is pocfico-d'dactic, without the sublimity 
of the beautiful parallelism and rhythm which charac- 
terize the older poetic effusions of the inspired writ- 
ings. The absence of vigor and charm is manifest 
even in the grandest portion of this book (xii, 1-7), 
where the sacred writer rises above his usual level. 
(See generally, Bergst, in Eichhorn's Billiotheh, x, 
955-84; Paulus, in his Neues Repertorium , i, 201-G5; 
Zirkel, Ueb. der Prediger, Wiirzb, 1792 ; Uinbreit, Co- 
heleth scepticus, Gott. 1820; Sticbriz, Vindicice Solo mo- 
lds, Halle, 17G0; Hcnzi, Eccles. argument um , Dorpat, 
1827 ; Muhlcrt, Palaogr. Beitriige , p. 182 sq. ; Hart- 
mann, in the Wien. Zeitschr. i, 29, 71 ; Ewald, Ueb. d. 
Prediger, Gott. 182G; Uinbreit, in the Stud. u. Krit. 
1849; Bruch, Weishcits-Lehre der Ilebraer, Strasburg, 
1851.) See Solomon. 

I. Title. — The Heb. name is rblnp, Kohe'lefh , and 
is evidently taken from the designation which the 
writer himself assumes (ch. i, 2, 2; vii, 27; xii, 8, 9, 
10; Sept. ticK\)jfjia(rri]g,y\\\g. ecclesiastcs, Autli. Vers, 
“preacher’’). It is the participle of ^Hp, kahaV (cog- 
nate with ^ip, voice, Greek t caXtto, Eng. call), which 
properly signifies to call together a religious assembly 
(hence Srip, a congregation ). The apparent 

anomaly of the feminine termination T\ n indicates that 
the abstract noun has been transferred from the office 
to the person holding it (so the Arab, calijth, etc. ; see 
Gesenius, Thcs. Heb. p. 1199, 1200), and has thus be- 
come capable of use as a masculine proper name, a 
change of meaning of which wc find other instances in 
Sopheveth (Neh. vii, 57), Pochereth (Ezra ii, 57); and 
hence, with the single exception of Eccles. vii, 27, the 
noun, notwithstanding its form, is used throughout in 
the masculine. Ewald, however {Poet. Bitch, iv, 189), 
connects the feminine termination with the noun iT^rn 
(wisdom), understood, and supposes a poetic license in 
the use of the word as a kind of symbolic proper name, 
appealing to Prov. xxx, 1; xxxi, 1, as examples of a 
like usage. As connected with the root Isjlp, the 
word has been applied to one who speaks in an assem- 
bly, and there is, to say the least, a tolerable agree- 
ment in favor of this interpretation. Thus wc have 
the comment of the Midrash, stating that the writer 
thus designates himself “ because his words were sper- 
ken in the assembly” (quoted in Preston’s Ecclesiastes, 
note on i, 1); the rendering ’EtcKXqmaoTtjc by t he 
Sept. ; the adoption of this title by Jerome (Prerf. in 
Eccl), as meaning ‘ ‘ qui catum, i. e. ecclesiam coigrc - 
gat, quern nos nuncupare possumus Concionatorcm the 
use of “Prediger” by Luther, of “Preacher” in the 
A.V. On the other hand, taking bnp in the sense 
of collecting things, not of summoning persons, and 
led perhaps by his inability to see in the book itself 
any greater unity of design than in the chapters of 
Proverbs, Grotius (in Eccles. i, 1) has suggested Xcra- 
OgoKTTtK ( compiler ) as a l etter equivalent. In this he 
lias been followed by Herder and Jalin, and Mendels- 
sohn lias adopted the same rendering (notes on i, 1, 
and vii, 27, in Preston), seeing in it the statement 
partly that the writer had compiled the savings of 
wise men who had gone before him, partly that he 
was, by an inductive process, gathering truths firm 
the facts of a wide experience. The title of the book, 
however, indicates that the author did not write only 
for a literary public, but that he had in view the whole 
congregation of the Lord; and that his doctrine was 
not confined within the narrow bounds of a school, hut 
belonged to the Clmrch in its whole extent (comp. Psa. 
xlix, 2-4). Solomon, who in 1 Kings viii is described 
as gathering (^Jlp^) the people to hold communion 


ECCLESIASTES 


27 


ECCLESIASTES 


w ith the Most High in the place which he erected for 
this purpose, is here again represented as the gatherer 
(rbn'p) of the people to the assembly of God. It 
must, however, be borne in mind that, though Solomon 
is animated by and represents Wisdom, he does not lose 
his individuality, lienee lie sometimes describes his 
own experience (comp, i, 16, 17 ; ii, 9, 12 ; vii, 23, etc.), 
and sometimes utters the words of Wisdom, whose or- 
gan he is, just as the apostles are sometimes the or- 
gans of the Holy Ghost (comp. Acts xv, 28). 

Against the common rendering of rbnp by preacher 
or Ecclesiastes, which is supported by Desvoeux, Gese- 
nius, Knobel, Herzfeld, Stuart, etc., it has been urged : 
(1.) The verb injj does not properly include the idea 
of preaching: such, however, would naturally be its 
derived import, inasmuch as popular assemblies are 
usually convened for the purpose of being addressed. 
(2.) It ascribes to Solomon the office of preacher, which 
is nowhere mentioned in the Bible ; it is too modern a 
title, and is inconsistent with his character, if not with 
the contents of the book: this, however, only applies 
to the title in its modern sense, and not to the above 
generic view. (3.) It destroys the connection between 
the design of the book and the import of this symbolic 
name: this again depends upon the preconception as 
to the design of the hook; the import, as above ex- 
plained, is not unsuitable. Moreover, a. Coheleth is 
neither a name of rank nor of office, but simply de- 
scribes the act of gathering the people together, and 
can, therefore, not come within the rule which the ad- 
vocates of the rendering preacher or Ecclesiastes are 
obliged to urge. b. The construction of the feminine 
verb with it in vii, 27, is incompatible with this view. 
c. Abstracts are never formed from the active parti- 
ciple; and, d. There is not a single instance to be found 
where a concrete is first made an abstract, and then again 
taken in a personal sense. These objections arc too mi- 
nute to be of much force, and are overruled by the pe- 
culiar use and application of this w'ord, w hich occurs 
nowffiere else. 

The other explanations of Koheleth, viz., Gatherer 
or Acquirer of wisdom, and Solomon is called by this 
name because he gathered much wisdom (Kashi, Kash* 
bam, etc.) ; Collector , Compiler, because he collected in 
this book divers experience, views, and maxims for 
the good of mankind (Grotius, Mayer, Mendelssohn, 
etc.) ; Eclectic, ikXtKTiKoc, a name given to him in this 
place because of bis skill in selecting and purifying 
from the systems of different philosophers the amassed 
sentiments in this book (Kosenthal); Accumulated wis- 
dom — and this appellation is given to him because wds- 
dom was accumulated in him (Aben-Ezra); The Reu- 
nited, the. Gathered Soul — and it describes his readmis- 
sion into the Church in consequence of his repentance 
(Cartwright, Bishop Reynolds, Granger, etc.) ; The 
Penitent — and describes the contrite state of his heart 
for his apostasy (Coeceius, Schultens, etc.) ; An assem- 
bly, an academy — and the first verse is to be translated 
“The sayings of the academy of the son of David” 
(Ddderlein, Nachtigal, etc.); An old man — and Solo- 
mon indicates by the name Koheleth his weakness of 
mind when, yielding to his wives, he worshipped idols 
(Simonis Lex. Heb. s. v. ; Schmidt, etc.) ; Exclaiming 
voice, analogous to the title assumed by John the Bap- 
tist — and the words of the inscription ought to be ren- 
dered, “The words of the voice of one exclaiming” (De 
Pieu) ; Sophist, according to the primitive significa- 
tion of the word, which implied a combination of phi- 
losophy and rhetoric (Desvoeux) ; Philosopher or Mor- 
alist (Spohq, Gaab, etc.); The departed spirit of Solo- 
mon introduced as speaking throughout this book in 
the form of a shadow (Augnsti, E/nleit in d. A. T. p. 
240); Koheleth is the feminine gender, because it re- 
fers to 1L'23, the intellectual soul , which is understood 
(Iiashi, Kashbam, Ewald, etc.) ; it is to show the great 


excellency of the preacher, or his charming style which 
this gender indicates (Lorinus, Zirkel, etc.), because 
a preacher travails, as it were, like a mother, in the 
spiritual birth of his children, and has tender and 
motherly affection for his people, a similar expression 
being found in Gal. iv, 19 (Kineda, Mayer, etc.); it is 
to describe the infirmity of Solomon, who appears here 
as worn out by old age (Mercer, Simonis, etc.) ; it is 
used in a neuter sense, because departed spirits have 
no specific gender (Angusti) ; the termination n is not 
at all feminine, hut, as in Arabic, is used as an auxesis ; 
etc., etc., etc. We believe that the simple enumera- 
tion of these views will tend to show their vagueness, 
fancifulness, and in appropriateness. (See Dindorf, 
Quomodo nomen Cohelet Salomoni tribuatur, Lpz. 1791.) 

11. Author and Pate. — These have usually been re- 
garded as determined by tbe account that the writer 
gives of himself in ch. i and ii, that it was written by 
the only “son of David” (i, 1), w r ho w r as “ king over 
Israel in Jerusalem” (i, 12). According to rhis, we 
have in it w hat may well be called the Confessions of 
king Solomon, the utterance of a repentance which 
some have even ventured to compare witli that of the 
51st psalm. This authorship is corroborated by the 
unquestionable allusions made throughout the book to 
particular circumstances connected with the life of the 
great monarch (compare chap, i, 16, etc., with 1 Kings 
iii, 12 ; chap, ii, 4-10, with 1 Kings v, 27-32 ; vii, 1-8 ; 
ix, 7-19; x, 14-29; ch. vii, 20, with 1 Kings viii, 46; 
chap, xii, 9, with 1 Kings iv, 32). Additional internal 
evidence has been found for this belief in the language 
of vii, 26-28, as harmonizing with the history of 1 
Kings xi, 3, and in an interpretation (somew hat forced 
perhaps) which refers iv, 13 15 to the murmurs of the 
people against Solomon, and the popularity of Jero- 
boam as the leader of the people, already recognised 
as their future king (Mendelssohn and Preston in loe.). 
The belief that Solomon was actually the author was, 
it need hardly be said, received generally by the Kab- 
binic commentators, and the w hole series of Patristic 
writers. The apparent exceptions to this in the pas- 
sages b} 1- Talmudic writers, which ascribe it to Ileze- 
kiah (Baba Bathra, c. i, fol. 15) or Isaiah (Shalsh. llctk- 
kab. fol. 66 b, quoted by Michaelis), can hardly be un- 
derstood as implying more than a share in the work 
of editing, like that claimed for the “men of lleze- 
kiali” in Prov. xxv, 1. Grotius (Prcrf. in Eccles .) was 
indeed almost the first writer who called it in ques- 
tion, and started a different hypothesis. 

It may seem as if the whole question were settled 
for all who recognise the inspiration of Scripture by 
the statement, in a canonical and inspired book, as to 
its own authorship. The book purports, it is said 
(Preston, Proleg. in Eccles. p. 5), to be written by Sol- 
omon, and to doubt the literal accuracy of this state- 
ment is to call in question the truth and authority of 
Scripture. To many it has appeared questionable, 
however, whether we can admit an a priori argument 
of this character to he decisive. The hypothesis that 
every such statement in a canonical hook must be re- 
ceived as literally true, is, in fact, an assumption that 
inspired writers were debarred from forms of composi- 
tion wdiieh w'ere open without blame to others. In 
the literature of every other nation the form of per- 
sonated authorship, w here there is no animus decipien- 
di, has been recognised as a legitimate channel for the 
expression of opinions or the quasi-dramatic represen- 
tation of character, lienee it has been asked, \\ by 



them guilty of a falsehood, and been inconsistent with 
their inspiration? The question of authorship does 
not involve that of canonical authority. A book writ- 
ten by Solomon would not necessarily be inspired and 
canonical. . It is said that there is nothing that need 
startle us in the thought that an inspired writer might 


ECCLESIASTES 


28 


ECCLESIASTES 


use a liberty which has been granted without hesita- 
tion to the teachers of mankind in every age and coun- 
try. Accordingly, the advocates of a different author- 
ship for the hook in question than that of Solomon feel 
themselves at liberty to discard these statements of the 
text as mere literary devices. 

They argue that in like manner the book which 
hears the title of the “ Wisdom of Solomon” asserts, 
both by its title and its language (vii, 1-21), a claim 
to the same authorship, and, though the absence of a 
Hebrew original led to its exclusion from the Jewish 
canon, the authorship of Solomon was taken for grant- 
ed by all the early Christian writers who quote it or 
refer to it, till Jerome had asserted the authority of the 
Hebrew text as the standard of canonicity, and by not 
a few afterwards. But in reply to this it may justly 
be said that the traditionar}' character of the two 
books is so different as to debar any comparison of 
this kind. See WiSDOJr, Book of. 

The following specific objections have been urged 
against the Solomonic and for the personated author- 
ship of this book; 1. All the other reputed writings 
of Solomon have his name in the inscription (comp. 
Prow i, 1 ; Song of Songs, i, 1 ; Psa. lxxvii), whereas 
in this book the name of Solomon is studiously avoid- 
ed, thus showing that it does not claim him as its act- 
ual author. Yet he gives other equally decisive inti- 
mations of his identity, and the peculiar character of 
the work sufficiently accounts for this partial conceal- 
ment. Moreover, in some of his other undoubted writ- 
ings he employs similar noms de plume (Prow xxx, 1 ; 
xxxi, 1). 2. The S 3 'mbolic and impersonal name Ko- 

hcleth show's that Solomon is simply introduced in an 
ideal sense as the representative of wisdom. On the 
other hand, it appears to have an equally tangible ap- 
plication to him historically. 3. This is indicated by 
the sacred writer himself, who represents Solomon as 
belonging to the past, inasmuch as he makes this great 
monarch say, “/ was ( n r"^Jl) king,” but had long ago 
ceased to be king when this was written. That this 
is intended by the preterite has been acknowledged 
from time immemorial (comp. Midrash It abba, Mid- 
rash Jalkvt in loc. ; Talmud, Gittin , 68 b; the Chaldee 
paraphrase, i, 12 ; Midrash, Maase, Bi-Shloma, Ha- 
Id elech, ed. Jellinek in Beth Ila-Midrash , ii, 35; Ka- 
shi on i, 12). Yet it does not necessarily require that 
interpretation, but may naturally be understood as 
simply referring to past incidents, e. g. “ I have been 
[and still am] king.” The passage certainly gives no 
support to the idea of a fanciful authorship. 4. This 
is moreover corroborated by various statements in the 
book, which would otherwise be irreconcilable, e. g. 
Koheleth comparing himself with a long succession 
of kings who reigned over Israel in Jerusalem (i, 1G; 
ii, 7) : the term king in Jerusalem, (ibid.) showing that 
at the time when this was written there was a royal 
residence in Samaria; the recommendation to individ- 
uals not to attempt to resent the oppression of a tyran- 
nical ruler, blit to wait for a general revolt (viii, 2-0) — 
a doctrine which a monarch like Solomon is not likely 
to propound; the description of a royal spendthrift, 
and of the misery he inflicts upon the land (x, 16-10), 
which Solomon would not give unless he intended to 
write a satire upon himself. These historical allu- 
sions are too vague to be thus pressed into service. 
As to the political references, we know (1 Kings xi, 
14, 23) that insurrectionary manifestations did exist 
in Solomon’s reign, and were aggravated by his rigid 
and exacting government (1 Kings xii, 4). It has 
been asked whether Solomon would have been likely 
to speak of himself as in i, 32, or to describe with bit- 
terness the misery and wrong of which his ow r n mis- 
government had been the cause, as in iii, 16 ; iv, 1 
(Jalin, Bird, ii, 810). On the hypothesis that he was 
the writer, the whole book is an acknowledgment of 
evils which he had occasioned, w'hile yet there is no 


distinct confession and repentance. There are forms 
of satiety and self-reproach, of which this half sad, 
half scornful retrospect of a man’s own life — this ut- 
terance of hitter words by which he is condemned out 
of his owm mouth — is the most natural expression. 
Any individual judgment on this point cannot, from 
the nature of the ease, be otherwise than subjective, 
and ought therefore to bias our estimate of other evi- 
dence as little as possible. 5. The state of oppression, 
sufferings, and misery depicted in this book (iv, 1-4 , 
v, 7 ; viii, 1-4, 10, 11 ; x, 5-7, 20, etc.) cannot be rec- 
onciled with the age of Solomon, and unquestionably 
shows that the Jew's w’ere then groaning under the 
grinding tyranny of Persia. There are sudden and 
violent changes, the servant of to-day becoming the 
ruler of to-morrow (x, 5-7). All this, it is said, agrees 
w’ith the glimpses into the condition of the Jew's under 
the Persian empire in Ezra and Nehemiah, and w r ith 
what w r e know as to the general condition of the prov- 
inces under its satraps. But we cannot suppose that 
these evils, which have been prevalent in all times, 
w r ere alluded to as specially characteristic of the writ- 
er’s day. 6. The fact that Koheleth is represented as 
indulging in sensual enjoyments, and acquiring riches 
and fame in order to ascertain what is good for the chil- 
dren of men (ii, 3-9; iii, 12, 22, etc.), making philo- 
sophical experiments to discover the sitmmum bonum , 
is held to be at variance with the conduct of the his- 
torical Solomon, and to be an idea of a much later 
period. In like manner, the admonition not to seek 
divine things in the profane books of the philosophers 
(xii, 12) are thought to show that this book w r as writ- 
ten when the speculation of Greece and Alexandria 
had found their way into Palestine. In short, the 
doctrine of a future bar of judgment, whereby Kohe- 
leth solves the grand problem of this book, when com- 
pared with the vague and dim intimations respecting a 
future state in the pre-exilian portions of the O. T., is 
regarded as proving that it is & post-exilian production. 
But the untrustworthy character of these arguments 
is evinced by the parallel case of the book of Job (q. 
v.). It is also urged that the indications of the relig- 
ious condition of the people, their formalism and much 
speaking (v, 1, 2), their readiness to evade the per- 
formance of their vows by casuistic excuses (v, 5), 
represent in like manner the grow'th of evils, the germs 
of which appeared soon after the captivity, and which 
we find in a fully-developed form in the prophecy of 
Malachi. In addition to this general resemblance, 
there is the agreement between the use of 
for the “ angel” or priest of God (v, 6, Ewald, in loc.), 
and the recurrence in Malachi of the terms 
nifP, the “ angel” or messenger of the Lord, as a syn- 
onyme for the priest (Mai. ii, 7), the true priest being 
the great agent in accomplishing God’s purposes. 
Significant, though not conclusive in either direction, 
is the absence of all reference to any contemporaneous 
prophetic activity or to any Messianic hopes. This 
might indicate a time before such hopes had become 
prevalent, or after they were for a time extinguished. 
It might, on the other hand, be the natural result of 
the experience through which the son of David had 
passed, or fitly take its place in the dramatic persona- 
tion of such a character. The use throughout the 
book of Elohim instead of Jehovah as the divine name, 
though characteristic of the book as dealing with the 
problems of the universe rather than vdth the relations 
between the Lord God of Israel and his people, and 
therefore striking as an idiosyncrasy, leaves the ques- 
tion as to date nearly where it was. The indications 
of rising questions as to the end of man’s life and the 
constitution of his nature, of doubts like those which 
afterwards developed into Saddueeeism (iii, 19-21), of a 
copious literature connected with those questions, con- 
firm, it is urged (Ewald), the hypothesis of the later 
date. It may be added, too, that the absence of any 


ECCLESIASTES 


29 


ECCLESIASTES 


reference to such a work as this in the enumeration of 
Solomon’s writings in 1 Kings iv, 82, tends, at least, to 
the same conclusion. But such considerations drawn 
a silentio are highly inconclusive. 7. The strongest 
argument, however, against the Solomonic authorship 
of this book is its vitiated language and style. It is 
written throughout with peculiarities of phraseology 
which developed themselves about the time of the 
Babylonian captivity. So convincing is this fact, that 
not only have Grotius, J. D. Micliaelis, Eichhorn, Dd- 
derlein, Spohn, Jahn, J. E. C. Schmidt, Nachtigal, 
Kaiser, Rosenmiiller, Ewald, Knobel, Gescnius, De 
AVette, Noyes, Hitzig, Ileiligstedt, Davidson, Meier, 
etc., relinquished the Solomonic authorship, but even 
such unquestionably orthodox writers as Umbreit, 
Hengstenberg, Gerlach, Vaihinger, Stuart, Keil, El- 
ster, etc., declare most emphatically that the book was 
written after the Babylonian captivity; and there is 
hardly a chief rabbi or a literary Jew to be found who 
would have the courage to maintain that Solomon 
wrote Ivoheleth. Dr. Herzfeld, chief rabbi of Bruns- 
wick; Dr. Philippson, chief rabbi of Magdeburg; Dr. 
Geiger, rabbi of Breslau ; Dr. Zunz, Professor Luzzat- 
to, Dr. Krochmal, Steinsehneider, Jost, Griitz, Furst, 
and a host of others, affirm that this book is one of the 
latest productions in the O.-T. canon. We are more- 
over reminded that these are men to whom the Hebrew 
is almost vernacular, and that some of them write bet- 
ter Hebrew, and in a purer style, than that of Kohe- 
leth. With most readers, however, a single intima- 
tion of the text itself will weigh more than the opin- 
ion of these or all other learned men. On the other 
hand, the Rabbinical scholars, who certainly were not 
inferior in a knowledge of Hebrew, appear to have 
found no difficulty in attributing this book to Solo- 
mon. Most of those above enumerated are of very 
questionable sentiments on a point like this, and it 
must be borne in mind that a very large, if iiot equal, 
amount of learning has been arrayed on the opposite 
side. The last of the above objections, however, de- 
serves a more minute consideration. 

Many opponents of the Solomonic authorship of Ec- 
clesiastes have certainly gone much too far in their 
assertions respecting the impurity of its language. 
The Graecisms which Zirkle thought that he had found 
have now generally been given up. The Rabbinisms 
likewise could not stand the proof. The words, signi- 
fications, and forms which seem to appertain to a later 
period of Hebrew literature, and the Chaldaisnis, an 
abundance of which Knobel gathered, require, as 
Herzfeld has shown (in his Commentary , published at 
Braunschweig, 1838, p. 13 sq.), to be much sifted. Ac- 
cording to Herzfeld, there are in Ecclesiastes not more 
than between eleven and fifteen “young Hebrew” ex- 
pressions and constructions, and between eight and 
ten Chaldaisms. Nevertheless, it is certain that the 
book does not belong to the productions of the first, 
but rather to the second period of the Hebrew lan- 
guage. This alone would not fully disprove the au- 
thorship of Solomon, for it would not necessarily throw 
the production into the latest period of Hebrew litera- 
ture. We could suppose that Solomon, in a philo- 
sophical work, found the pure Hebrew language to be 
insufficient, and had, therefore, recourse to the Chal- 
daizing popular dialect, by which, at a later period, the 
book-language was entirely displaced. This supposi- j 
tion could not be rejected a priori, since almost every 
one of the Hebrew authors before the exile did the 
same, although in a less degree. It has been thought, 
however, that the striking difference between the lan- 
guage of Ecclesiastes and the language of the ITov- 
erbs renders that explanation quite inadmissible. This 
difference would prove little if the two books belonged 
to two entirely different classes of literature — that is, 
if Ecclesiastes bore the same relation to the Proverbs 
as the Song of Solomon does; but since Ecclesiastes 
and the Proverbs belong essentially to the same class, 


the argument taken from the difference of style can 
only be avoided by attributing it to the effect of great- 
er age in the writer. The occurrence of Chaldee words 
and forms in any Hebrew document is by no means a 
certain and invariable indication of lateness of compo- 
sition. We must be careful to distinguish archaisms, 
and words and forms peculiar to the poetic style, from 
Chaldaisms of the later period. Moreover, the He- 
brew writings which have been transmitted to us be- 
ing so few in number, it is of course much more diffi- 
cult decisively to determine the period to which any 
of these writings belongs by the peculiar form of lan- 
guage which it presents, than it would have been had 
there been preserved to us a larger number of docu- 
ments of different ages to assist us in forming our de- 
cision. Still, from the materials within our reach, 
scanty though they are, we would naturally draw a 
conclusion as to the age of the book of Ecclesiastes, 
not altogether certain, indeed, but decidedly unfavor- 
able to an early date; for it needs but a cursory sur- 
vey of the book to convince us that in language and 
style it not only differs widely from the other writings 
of the age of Solomon, but bears a very marked resem- 
blance to the latest books of the Old Testament. (1.) 
One class of words employed by the writer of Ecclesi- 
astes we find rarely employed in the earlier books of 
Scripture, frequently in the later, i. e. in those written 
during or after the Babylonish captivity. Thus sha - 
lat', Z-bia, he tilled (Eccles. ii, 19; v, 18; vi, 2; viii, 
9), is found elsewhere only in Nehemiah and Esther. 
The derived noun “ji'jVw 1 , sliilton ' , rule (eh. viii, 4, 8), 
is found only in the Chaldee of Daniel ; but 
shallit', ruler , appears once in the earlier Scriptures 
(Gen. xlii, G). Under this head may also be men- 
tioned malkuih' , kingdom (ch. iv, 34), rare in 

the earlier Scriptures, but found above forty times in 
Esther and Daniel; and medinah' , province 

(ch. ii, 8 ; v, 7), which appears also in Esther, Daniel, 
Ezra, Nehemiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, and likewise 
in 3 Kings xx, 14-19, where “princes of the provinces” 
are mentioned among the officers of king Ahab, but 
in none of the earlier Scriptures. (2.) A second class 
includes those words which are never found in any He- 
brew writing of earlier date than the Babylonian cap- 
tivity, but are found in the later books : as “j*3T, ze - 
man', set time (ch. iii, 1) = 121*2, which we meet with 
in Hebrew only in Neh. ii, G and Esth. ix, 27, 81, but 
in the biblical Chaldee and in the Targums frequent- 
ly ; C5PQ, pithgam sentence (chap, viii, 11), which ap- 
pears in Hebrew onl} r in Esth. i, 20, but in Chaldee 
frequently. (If this word be, as is commonly sup- 
posed, of Persian origin, its appearance only in the 
later Jewish writings is at once accounted for. See 
Rudiger’s Additions to Gescnius’s Thesaurus.') 2113, 
madda ' (ch. x, 20), a derivation of 21^, to know, found 
only in 2 Chron. and Daniel, and also in Chaldee ; and 
the particles illu, if (ch. vi, G), and “33, heken ', 
then, so (ch. viii, 30), found in no earlier Hebrew book 
than Esther. From this enumeration it appears that 
the book of Ecclesiastes resembles the book of Esther 
in some of the most distinctive peculiarities of its lan- 
guage. (3.) A third class embraces those words which 
are not found even in the Hebrew writings of the latest 
period, but only in the Chaldee of Daniel and Ezra, or 
in the Targums, as “, l hrP, yithron, profit, which is 
used nine times in Ecclesiastes, never in any other 
scriptural writing, but frequently in the Targums, un- 
der the slightly modified form yuthran ; so also 133, 
kehar', already , long ago, which recurs eight times in 
this book ; 1 j2P, takan (ch. i, 15 ; vii, 13 ; xii, 9), found 
also in Chaldee (Dan. iv, 33, etc.); reuth' , de- 

sire, recurring five times, and also in the Chaldee por- 


ECCLESIASTES 


30 


ECCLESIASTES 


tions of Ezra ; (chap, i, 17, etc.), *£3!? (ch. i, 13, 

etc.), (ch. x, 8). (4.) Other peculiarities, such 

as the frequent use of the participle, the rare appear- 
ance of the u vav consecutive,” the various uses of the 
relative particle, concur with the characteristics al- 
ready noted in affixing to the language and style of 
this hook the stamp of that transition period when the 
Hebrew language, soon about to give place to the 
Chaldee, had already lost its ancient purity, and be- 
come debased by the absorption of many Chaldee ele- 
ments. The prevalence of abstract forms again, char- 
acteristic of the language of Ecclesiastes, is urged as 
belonging to a later period than that of Solomon in 
the development of Hebrew thought and language. 
The answers given to these objections by the defend- 
ers of the received belief are (ITeston, Eccles. p. 7), (a) 
that many of what we call Aramaic or Chaldee forms 
may have belonged to the period of pure Hebrew, 
though they have not come down to us in any extant 
writings ; and ( b ) that so far as they are foreign to the 
Hebrew of the time of Solomon, he may have learned 
them from his “strange wives,” or from the men who 
came as ambassadors from other countries. (See Da- 
vidson, Horne’s Introd. new ed. ii, 787). 

As to the date of Ecclesiastes, these arguments of 
recent criticism are stronger against the traditional 
belief than in support of any rival theory, and the ad- 
vocates of that belief might almost he content to rest 
their case upon the discordant hypotheses of their op- 
ponents. On the assumption that the book belongs, 
not to the time of Solomon, hut to the period subse- 
quent to the captivity, the dates which have been as- 
signed to it occupy a range of more than 300 years. 
Grotius supposes Zerubbabel to be referred to in xii, 
11, as the “One Shepherd” {Comm, in Eccles. in Ioc.), 
and so far agrees with Keil ( EhilCdung in das A. T.). 
who fixes it in the time of Ezra end Nehemiah. Ew- 
ald and De Wette conjecture the close of the period 
of Persian or the commencement of that of Macedoni- 
an rule; Pertholdt, the period between Alexander the 
Great and Antioclms Epiphanes ; Hitzig, circ. 11.0. 
204; Hartmann, the time of the Maccabees, etc. The 
following table will show the different periods to which 
it has been assigned ; 

n.c. 

Naelitigfil, between Solomon and Jeremiah Q75-5SS 

Schmidt, Jnhn, etc., between Maunsscli iind Zedekiali 6 0-T>SS 
Grotiu-s Kaber, Eichliorn, etc., shortly after the exile 536-5! >0 

Umbreit, the Persian period 53S-333 

Van der lfardt, in the reign of Xerxes II and Darius 464-404 
Ko-cnmiiller, between Xchemiah and Alexander the 

Great 450-333 

1 lengstenberg, Stuart, Keil 433 

Kwald, a century before Alexander the Great -ISO 

Gerlaeh, about the year 400 

I)e Wette, Knobel, etc., at the end of the Persian and 

the beginning of the Macedonian period 350-300 

Bergs t, during Alexander’s sojourn in Palestine 333 

B vtholrlt, between Alexander and Ant. Kpiphaues . . 333-164 

Ziikel,the Syrian period 312-164 

Hitzig, about the year ‘204 

Supposing it were proved that Solomon is only in- 
troduced ns the speaker, the question arises why the 
author adopted this form. The usual reply is, that 
Solomon, among the Israelites, had, as it were, the 
prerogative of wisdom, and lienee the author was in- 
duced to put into Solomon’s mouth that wisdom which 
he intended to proclaim, without the slightest inten- 
tion of forging a supposititious volume. This reply 
contains some truth, hut it does not exhaust the mat- 
ter. The chief object of the author was to communi- 
cate wisdom in general ; but next to this, as appears 
from ch. i, 12 sq., he intended to inculcate the vanity 
of human pursuits. Now, from the mouth of no one 
could more aptly proceed the proclamation of the noth- 
ingness of all earthly things than from the mouth of 
Solomon, who had possessed them in all their fulness ; 
at whose command were wisdom, riches, and pleasures 
in abundance, and who hud therefore full 'opportuni- 
ty to experience the nothingness of all that is earthly. 


On the other hand, if we adopt the traditionary view 
that Solomon was the author, we avoid all these doubt- 
ful expedients and pious frauds; and, as no other can- 
didate appears, we shall he safest in coinciding with 
that ancient opinion. The peculiarities of diction may 
be explained (as in the hook of Job) by supposing that 
the work was written by Solomon during a season of 
penitence at the close of his life, and edited in its pres- 
ent form, at a later period, peihaps by Ezra. 

III. Canonicity. — The earliest catalogues which tho 
Jews have transmitted to us of their sacred writings 
give this hook as forming part of the canon (Mishna, 
Yadaim , iii, 5; Talmud, Baba Bat hr a, 14). All the 
ancient versions, therefore — viz. the Septnagint, which 
was made before the Christian nera ; the versions of 
Aquila, Symmachus, and Theodotion, which belong to 
the second century of Christianity, as well as the cat- 
alogue of Melito, bishop of Sardis (fl. A.D. 170)— in- 
clude Ecclesiastes. Some singular passages in the 
Talmud indicate, however, that the recognition was 
not altogether unhesitating, and that it was at least 
questioned how far the book was one which it was ex- 
pedient to place among the Scriptures that were read 
publicly. Thus we find the statements (Mishna, 

; Shabbath , c. x, quoted by Mendelssohn in Preston, p. 
74 ; Midrash, fol. 114 a ; Preston, p. 13) that “the wise 
men sought to secrete the book Koheleth , because they 
found in it words tending to heresy,” and “words con- 
tradictory to each other;” that the reason they did not 
secrete it was “because its beginning and end were 
consistent with the law ;” that when they examined it 
more carefully they came to the conclusion, “We have 
looked closely into the book Kohelcth , and discovered 
a meaning in it.” The chief interest of such passages 
is of course connected with the inquiry into the plan 
and teaching of the book, but they are of some impor- 
tance also as indicating that it must have commended 
itself to the teachers of an earlier generation either on 
account of the external authority by which it was 
sanctioned, or because they had a clearer insight into 
| its meaning, and were less startled by its apparent dif- 
ficulties. (See Bab. Mcg'lla, 7, a; Pab. Talm. Sab- 
bath, 30, a ; Midrash, Vayilra Rahba , xxviii; Mishna, 

: Edayoth, v, 3; Jerome, Comment, xii, 13.) Traces of 
1 this controversy are to be found in a singular discus- 
sion between the schools of Shammai and llillel, turn- 
ing on the question whether the book Koheleth were 
inspired, and in the comments on that question by Ik 
Ob. de Partenora and Maimonides (Surenhus. iv. 340). 

Within the Christian Church, the divine inspiration 
of Ecclesiastes, the Proverbs, and the Song of Solomon 
was denied by Theodorus of Mopsuestia. In recent 
times, the accusers of Ecclesiastes have been Augusti, 
De Wette, and Knobel ; blit their accusations are based 
on mere misunderstandings. They are especially as 
follows: (1.) The author is said to incline towards a 
moral epicurism. All his ethical admonitions and 
doctrines tend to promote the comforts and enjoyments 
of life. Put let ns consider above all what tendency 
and disposition it is to which the author addresses his 
admonition, serenely and contentedly to enjoy God's 
gifts. He addresses this admonition to that specula- 
tion which will not rest before it lias penetrated the 
whole depth of the inscrutable councils of God ; to 
that murmuring which bewails the badness of times, 

! and quarrels with God about the sufferings of our ter- 
rene existence; to that gloomy piety uhieh wearies 
itself in imaginary good works and external strictness, 

■ with a view to wrest salvation from God ; to that av- 
arice which gathers, not knowing for whom ; making 
1 the means of existence our highest aim ; building upon 
an uncertain futurity which is in the hand of God 
alone. When the author addresses levity he speaks 
quite otherwise. For instance, in ch. vii, ?, 4, “ It is 
better to go to the house of mourning than to the house 
of feasting; for that is the end of all men; and the 
, living will lay it to his heart. Sorrow is better than 


ECCLESIASTES 


31 


ECCLESIASTES 


laughter, for by the sadness of the countenance the 
heart is made better. The heart of the wise man is in 
the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the 
house of mirth.” The nature of the joy recommended 
by the author is also misunderstood. Unrestrained 
merriment and giddy sensuality belong to those vani- 
ties which our author enumerates. He says to laugh- 
ter, Thou art mad, and to joy, What art thou doing ? 
He says, ch. vii, 5, 6, “ It is better to hear the rebuke 
of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. 
For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the 
laughter of a fool ; this also is vanity.” That joy 
which he recommends is joy in God. It is not the op- 
posite, but the fruit of the fear of God. How insepa- 
rable these are is shown in passages like ch. v, 0; vii, 
18; iii, 12: “I know that there is no good in them, 
but for a mau to rejoice, and to do good in his life 
and in many similar passages, but especially ch. xi, 9, 
10, and xii, 1, “ Ilemember now thy Creator in the 
days of thy youth.” etc. In reference to these passa- 
ges Ewald says (p. 186), “ Finally, in order to remove 
every doubt, and to speak with perfect clearness, he 
directs us to the eternal judgment of God, concerning 
all the doings of man, and inculcates that man, in the 
midst of momentary enjoyment, should never forget 
the whole futurity, the account and the consequences 
of his doings, the Creator and the Judge.” Ewald 
adds (p. 227), in reference to the conclusion, “ In order 
to obviate every possible misunderstanding of this 
writing, there is, ver. 13, once more briefly indicated 
that its tendency is not, by the condemnation of mur- 
muring, to recommend an unbridled life, but rather 
to teach, in harmony with the best old books, the fear 
of God, in which the whole man consists, or that true 
singleness of life, satisfying the whole man, and which 
comprehends everything else that is truty human. It 
is very necessary to limit the principle of joy which 
this book recommends again and again, in various 
ways and in the most impressive manner, and to refer 
this joy to a still higher truth, since it is so liable to 
be misunderstood. (2.) It is objected that in his views 
concerning the government of the world the author 
was strongly inclined to fatalism, according to which 
everything in this world progresses with an eternally 
unchangeable step; and that he by this fatalism was 
(3.) misled into a moral scepticism, having attained on 
his dogmatical basis the conviction of the inability of 
man, notwithstanding all his efforts, to reach his aim. 
However, this so-called fatalism of our author is noth- 
ing else lint what our Lord teaches (Matt, vi, 25) : 
‘Take no thought,’ etc. And as to the moral scepti- 
cism, our author certainly inculcates that man with all 
his endeavors can do nothing ; but at the same time 
he recommends the fear of God as the never-failing 
means of salvation. Man in himself can do nothing, 
but in God he can do all. It is quite clear from ch. 
vii, 16, 18, where both self-righteousness and wisdom, 
when separated from God, are described as equally de- 
structive, and opposite to them is placed the fear of 
God, as being their common antithesis, that our au- 
thor, by pointing to the sovereignty of God, did not 
mean to undermine morality: ‘lie that feareth God 
conies out from them all.’ If our author were given 
to moral scepticism, it would be impossible for him to 
teach retribution, which he inculcates in numerous 
passages, and which are not contradicted by others, in 
which he says that the retribution in individual cir- 
cumstances is frequently obscure and enigmatical. 
Where is that advocate for retribution who is not com- 
pelled to confess this as well as our author? (4.) This 
book has given offence also, by ch. iii, 21, and similar 
passages, concerning immortality. But the assertion 
that there is expressed here some doubt concerning 
the immortality of the soul is based on a wrong gram- 
matical perception. The FI cannot, according to its 
punctuation, be the interrogative, but must be the ar- 


ticle ; and our author elsewhere asserts positively his 
belief in the doctrine of immortality (ch. xii, 7). How 
it happens that lie did not give to this doctrine a pre- 
vailing influence upon his mode of treating his subject 
lias lately been investigated by Ileyder, in his essay 
entitled Ecclesiastic de Immortalitate A ninii Sentential 
(Erlangen, 183N).” (See I)r. Nordheimer, on The Phi- 
losophy of Ecclesiastes , in the Amer. Bib. Pepos. July, 
1838.) — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. 

IV. Plan and Contents . — The book of Ecclesiastes 
comes before us as being conspicuously, among the 
writings of the 0. T., the great stumbling-block of 
commentators. Elsewhere there are different opin- 
ions as to the meaning of different passages. Here 
there is the widest possible divergence as to the plan 
and purpose of the whole book. The passages already 
quoted from the Mishna show that some, at least, of 
the Babbinical writers were perplexed by its teaching 
— did not know what to make of it — but gave way to 
the authority of men more discerning than themselves. 
The traditional statement, however, that this was 
among the Scriptures which were not read by any one 
under the age of thirty (Grit. Sac. Aniama in Eccles. y 
but with a “ liescio ubi” as to his authority), indicates 
the continuance of the old difficulty, and the remarks 
of Jerome ( Praf in Eccles ., Comm, in Eccles . xii, 13) 
show that it was not forgotten. Little can be gather- 
ed from the series of Patristic interpreters. The book 
is comparatively seldom quoted by them. No attempt 
is made to master its plan and to enter into the spirit 
of its writer. The charge brought by Philastrius of 
Brescia (circ. A.D. 380) against some heretics who re- 
jected it as teaching a false morality, shows that the 
obscurity which had been a stumbling-block to Jewish 
teachers was not removed for Christians. The fact 
that Theodore of Mopsuestia was accused at the fifth 
general council of calling iu question the authority 
and inspiration of this book, as well as of the Canticles, 
indicates that in this respect, as in others, lie was the 
precursor of the spirit of modem criticism. But, with 
these exceptions, there are no traces that men’s minds 
were drawn to examine the teachings of this book. 
When, however, we descend to the more recent devel- 
opments of criticism, we meet with an almost incredi- 
ble divergence of opinion. Luther, with his broad, 
clear insight into the workings of a man's heart, sees 
in it (Pnef. in Eccles.') a noble “ Politica vel (Econo- 
mica, ” leading men in the midst of all the troubles 
and disorders of human society to a true endurance 
and reasonable enjoyment. Grotius (Prof, in Eccles.) 
gives up the attempt to trace in it a plan or order of 
thought, and finds in it only a collection of many 
maxims, connected more or less closely with the great 
problems of human life, analogous to the discussion of 
the different definitions of happiness at the opening of 
the Nicomaeliean Ethics. Some (of whom Warburton 
may be taken as the.type, IFor/is, iv, 154) have seen in 
the language of ii, 18-21, a proof that the belief in the 
immortality of the soul was no part of the transmitted 
creed of Israel. Others (Patrick, Des Voeux, David- 
son, Mendelssohn) contend that the special purpose of 
the book was to assert that truth against the denial 
of a sensual scepticism. Others, the later German 
critics, of whom Ewald may be taken as the highest 
and best type, reject these views as partial and one- 
sided; and, while admitting that the book contains the 
germs of later systems, both Pharisaic and Saddnca?- 
an, assert that the object of the writer was to point 
out the secret of a true blessedness, in the midst of all 
the distractions and sorrows of the world, as consisting 
in a tranquil, calm enjoyment of the good that comes 
from God (Poet. Bitch, iv, 180). 

The variety of these opinions indicates sufficiently 
that the book is as far removed as possible from the 
character of a formal treatise. It is simply what it 
professes to be — the confession of a man of wide experi- 
ence looking back upon bis past life, and looking out 


ECCLESIASTES 


32 


ECCLESIASTES 


upon the disorders and calamities which surround him. 
Such a man does not set forth his premises and conclu- 
sions with a logical completeness. While it may be 
true that the absence of a formal arrangement is char- 
acteristic of the Hebrew mind in all stages of its de- 
velopment (Lowtli, De Sac . Poet. Jleb. Pi cel. xxiv), or 
that it was the special mark of the declining literature 
of the period that followed the captivity (Ewald, Poet. 
Piick. iv, 177), it is also true that it belongs general- 
ly to all writings that are addressed to the spiritual 
rather than the intellectual element in man’s nature, 
and that it is found accordingly in many of the great- 
est works that have influenced the spiritual life of 
mankind. In proportion as a man has passed out of 
the region of traditional, easily-systematized knowl- 
edge, and has lived under the influence of great 
thoughts— possessed by them, yet hardly mastering 
them so as to bring them under a scientilic classifica- 
tion — are we likely to find this apparent want of meth- 
od. The true utterances of such a man are the rec- 
ords of his struggles after truth, of his occasional 
glimpses of it, of his ultimate discovery. The treatise 
J)e Imiiatione Ckristi , the Pensees of Pascal, Augus- 
tine’s Confessions, widely as they differ in other points, 
have this feature in common. If the writer conscious- 
ly reproduces the stages through which he has passed, 
the form he adopts may either be essentially dramatic, 
or it may record a statement of the changes which 
have brought him to his present state, or it may repeat 
and renew the oscillations from one extreme to anoth- 
er which had marked that earlier experience. The 
writer of Ecclesiastes has adopted and interwoven both 
the latter methods, and hence, in part, the obscurity 
which has made it so pre-eminently the stumbling- 
block of commentators. He is not a didactic moralist 
writing a homil}' on virtue. He is not a prophet de- 
livering a message from the Lord of Hosts to a sinful 
people. He is a man who has sinned in giving way 
to selfishness and sensuality, who has paid the penalty 
of that sin in satiety and weariness of life ; in whom 
the mood of spirit, over-reflective, indisposed to action, 
of which Shakspeare has given ns in Hamlet, Jaques, | 
Ilichard II, three distinct examples, has become dom- 
inant in its darkest form, but who has through all this 
been under the discipline of a divine education, and 
has learnt from it the lesson which God meant to teach 
him. What that lesson was will be seen from an ex- 
amination of the book itself. 

Leaving it an open question whether it is possible 
to arrange the contents of this book (as Roster and 
Vaihinger have done) in a carefully balanced series 
of strophes and antistrophes, it is tolerably clear that 
the recurring burden of “Vanity of vanities” and 
the teaching which recommends a life of calm enjoy- 
ment, mark, whenever they occur, a kind of halting- 
place in the succession of thoughts. It is the sum- 
ming up of one cycle of experience ; the sentence 
passed upon one phase of life. Taking this, accord- 
ingly, ns our guide, we may look upon the whole book 
as falling into four divisions, each, to a certain extent, 
running parallel with the others in its order and re- 
mits, and dosing with that which, in its position no 
less than its substance, is “ the conclusion of the whole 
matter.” 

(1.) Ch. i and ii. This portion of the book, more 
than any other, has the character of a personal con- 
fession. The Preacher starts with reproducing the 
phase of despair and weariness into which his experi- 
ence had led him (i, 2, 3). To the man who is thus sa- 
tiated with life, the order and regularity of nature are 
oppressive (i, 4-7) ; nor is he led, as in the 90th Psalm, 
from the things that are transitory to the thought of j 
One whose years arc from eternity. In the midst of 
the ever-recurring changes he finds no progress. That 
which seems to be new is but the repetition of the old 
(i,8 11). Then, having laid bare the depth to 'which , 
be had* fallen, he retraces the path by which he had 1 


travelled thitherward. First he had sought after wis* 
doni as that to which God seemed to call him (i, 13), 
but the pursuit of it was a sore travail, and there was 
no satisfaction in its possession. It could not remedy 
the least real evil, nor make the crooked straight (i, 
15). The first experiment in the seai'ch after happi- 
ness had failed, and he tried another. It was one to 
which men of great intellectual gifts and high fortunes 
are continually tempted — to surround himself with all 
the appliances of sensual enjoyment, and yet in thought 
to hold himself above it (ii, 1-9), making his very vo- 
luptuousness part of the experience which was to en- 
large his store of wisdom. This — which one may per- 
haps call the Goethean idea of life- — was what now pos- 
sessed him. But this plso failed to give him peace (ii, 
11). Had he not then exhausted all human experi- 
ence and found it profitless ? (ii, 12). If for a moment 
he found comfort in the thought that wisdom excelleth 
folly, and that he ivas w r ise (ii, 13, 14), it was soon dark- 
ened again by the thought of death (ii, 15). The wise 
man dies as the fool (ii, 16). This is enough to make 
even him who has wisdom hate all his labor and sink 
into the outer darkness of despair (ii, 20). Yet this 
very despair leads to the remedy. The first section 
closes with that which, in different forms, is the main 
lesson of the book — to make the best of w hat is actual- 
ly around one (ii, 24) — to substitute for the reckless, 
feverish pursuit of pleasure the calm enjoyment w hich 
men may yet find both for the senses and the intellect. 
This, so far as it goes, is the seeret of a true life ; this 
is from the hand of God. On everything else there is 
written, as before, the sentence that it is vanity and 
vexation of spirit. 

1 (II.) Ch. iii, 1-vi, 9. The order of thought in this 

| section has a different starting-point. One who looked 
' out upon the infinitely varied phenomena of man’s life 
might yet discern, in the midst of that variety, traces 
of an order. There are times, and seasons for each 
of them, in their turn, even as there are for the vi< is- 
situdes of the . world of nature (iii, 1-8). The heart of 
man, with its changes, is the mirror of the universe (iii, 
11), and is, like that, inscrutable. And from this there 
comes the same conclusion as from the personal expe- 
rience. Calmly to accept the changes and chances of 
life, entering into whatever joy they bring, as one ac- 
cepts the order of nature, this is the way of peace (iii, 
13). The thought of the ever-recurring cycle of na- 
ture, which before had been irritating and disturbing, 
now -whispers the same lesson. If we suffer, others 
have suffered before us (iii, 15). God is seeking out 
the past and reproducing it. If men repeat injustice 
and oppression, God also in the appointed season re- 
peats his judgments (iii, 16, 17). It is true that this 
thought has a dark as w-ell as a bright side, and this 
cannot be ignored. If men come and pass away, sub- 
ject to laws and changes like those of the natural 
world, then, it would seem, man has no pre-eminence 
above the beast (iii, 19). One end happens to all. All 
are of the dust and return to dust again (iii, 20). There 
is no immediate denial of this conclusion It was to 
this that the Preacher’s experience and reflection had 
led him. But even on the hypothesis that the person- 
al being of man terminates with his death, he has still 
the same counsel to give. Admit that all is darkness 
beyond the grave, and still there is nothing better on 
this side of it than the temper of a tranquil enjoyment 
(iii, 22). 

The transition from this result to the opening 
thoughts of ch. iv seems at first somewdiat abrupt. 
But the Preacher is retracing the paths by which he 
had been actually led to a higher truth than that in 
which he had then rested, and he will not, for the sake 
of a formal continuity, smooth over its ruggedness. 
The new track on which he was entering might have 
seemed less promising than the old. Instead of the 
self-centred search after happiness he looks out upon 
the miseries and disorders of the world, and learns to 


ECCLESIASTES 


33 


ECCLESIASTES 


sympathize with suffering (iv, 1). At first this does 
but multiply his perplexities. The world is out of 
joint. Men are so full of misery that death is better 
than life (iv, 2). Successful energy exposes men to 
envy (iv, 4). Indolence leads to poverty (iv, 5). Here, 
too, he who steers clear of both extremes has the best 
portion (iv, 6). The man who heaps up riches stands 
alone without kindred to share or inherit them, and 
loses all the blessings and advantages of human fel- 
lowship (iv, 8-12). Moreover, in this survey of life on 
a large scale, as in that of a personal experience, there 
is a cycle which rs ever repeated. The old and foolish 
king yields to the young man, poor and wise, who steps 
from his prison to a throne (iv, 13, 14). But he too has 
his successor. There are generations without limit 
before him, and shall be after him (iii, 15, 16). All 
human greatuess is swallowed up in the great stream 
of time. 

The opening thought of ch. v again presents the ap- 
pearance of abruptness, but it is because the survey of 
human life takes a yet wider range. The eye of the 
Preacher passes from the dwellers in palaces to the 
worshippers in the Temple, the devout and religious 
men. Have they found out the secret of life, the path 
to wisdom and happiness ? The answer to that ques- 
tion is that there the blindness and folly of mankind 
show themselves in their worst forms. Hypocrisy, 
unseemly 'prayers, idle dreams, broken vows, God’s 
messenger, the Priest, mocked with excuses — that was 
what the religion which the Preacher witnessed pre- 
sented to him (v, 1-6). The command “Fear thou 
God,” meant that a man was to take no part in a relig- 
ion such as this. But that command also suggested 
the solution of another problem, of that prevalence of 
injustice and oppression which had before weighed, 
down the spirit of the inquirer. Above all tyranny 
of petty governors, above the might of the king him- 
self, there was the power of the Highest (v, 8) ; and his 
judgment was manifest even upon earth. Was there, 
after all, so great an inequality ? Was God’s purpose, 
that the earth should be for all, really counteracted ? I 
(v, 9). Was the rich man with his cares -and fears 
happier than the laboring man whose sleep was sweet 
without riches ? (v, 10 12). Was there anything per- 
manent in that wealth of his? Did he not leave the 
world naked as he entered it? And if so, -did not all 
this bring the inquirer round to the same conclusion as 
before ? Moderation, self-control, freedom from all dis- 
turbing passions, these are the conditions of the maxi- 
mum of happiness which is possible for man on earth. 
Let this be received as from God. Not the outward 
means only, but the very 7, capacity of enjoyment is his 
gift (v, 18, 19). Short as life may be, if a man thus 
enjoys, he makes the most of it. God approves and 
answers his cheerfulness. Is not this better than the 
riches or length of days on which men set their hearts ? 
(vi, 1-5"). All are equal in death ; all are nearly equal 
in life (vi, G). To feed the eyes with what is actually 
before them is better than the ceaseless wanderings of 
the spirit (vi, 9). 

(111.) Chap, vi, 10-viii, 15. So far the lines of 
thought all seemed to converge to one result. The 
ethical teaching that grew out of the wise man’s expe- 
rience had in it something akin to the higher forms of 
Epicureanism. But the seeker could not rest in this, 
and found himself beset with thoughts at once more 
troubling and leading to a higher truth. The spirit 
of man looks before and after, and the uncertainties 
of the future vex it (vi, 12). A good name is better, 
as being more permanent, than riches (vii, 1) ; death 
is better than life, the house of mourning than the 
house of feasting (vii, 2). Self-command and the spir- 
it of calm endurance are a better safeguard against 
vain speculations than any form of enjoyment (vii, 8, 
9, 10). This wisdom is not only a defence, as lower 
things in their measure may be, but it gives life to 
them that have it (vii, 12). So far there are signs of 
III.— C 


a clearer insight into the end of life. Then comes an 
oscillation which carries him back to the old problems 
(vii, 15). Wisdom suggests a half-solution of them 
(vii, 18), suggests also calmness, caution, humility in 
dealing with them (vii, 22); but this is again followed 
by a relapse into the bitterness of the sated pleasure- 
seeker. The search after wisdom, such as it had been 
in his experience, had led only to the discovery that, 
though men were wicked, women were more wicked 
still (vii, 26-29). The repetition of thoughts that had 
appeared before is perhaps the natural consequence of 
such an oscillation, and accordingly in ch. viii we find 
the seeker moving in the same round as before. There 
are the old reflections on the misery of man (viii, 6), 
and the confusions in the moral order of the universe 
(viii, 10, 11), the old conclusion that enjoyment (such 
enjoyment as is compatible with the fear of God) is 
the only wisdom (viii, 15). 

(TV.) Chap, viii, 16-xii, 8. After the pause implied 
in his again arriving at the lesson of v, 15, the Preach- 
er retraces the last of his many wanderings. This 
time the thought with which he starts is a profound 
conviction of the inability of man to unravel the 
mysteries by which he is surrounded (viii, 17), of the 
nothingness of man when death is thought of as end- 
ing all tilings (ix, 3-6), of the wisdom of enjoying 
life while we may (ix, 7-10), of the evils which affect 
nations or individual man (ix, 11, 12). The wide ex- 
perience of the Preacher suggests sharp and pointed 
sayings as to these evils (x, 1-20), each true and 
weighty in itself, but not leading him on to any firmer 
standing-ground or clearer solution of the problems 
which oppress him. It is here that the traces of 
plan and method in the book seem most to fail us. 
Consciously or unconsciously the writer teaches us 
how clear an insight into the follies and sins of man- 
kind may coexist with doubt and uncertainty as to the 
great ends of life, and give him no help in his pursuit 
after truth. In eh. xi, however, the progress is more 
rapid. The tone of the Preacher becomes more that 
of direct exhortation, and he speaks in clearer and 
higher notes. The conclusions of previous trains of 
thought are not contradicted, but are placed under a 
new law and brought into a more harmonious whole. 
The end of man’s life is not to seek enjoyment for him- 
self only, blit to do good to others, regardless of the un- 
certainties or disappointments that may attend his ef- 
forts (xi, 1-4). His wisdom is to remember that there 
are things which lie cannot know, problems which 
he cannot solve (xi, 5), and to enjoy, in the bright- 
ness of his youth, whatever blessings God bestows cn 
him (xi, 9). But beyond all these there lie the days 
of darkness, of failing powers and incapacity for en- 
joyment; and the joy of youth, though it is not to be 
crushed, is yet to be tempered by 7- the thought that it 
cannot last forever, and that it too is subject to God’s 
law of retribution (xi, 9, 10). The secret of a true life 
is that a man should consecrate the vigor of his youth 
to God (xii, 1). It is well to do this before the night 
comes, before the slow decay of age benumbs all the 
faculties of sense (xii, 2, 6), before the spirit returns to 
God who gave it. The thought of that end rings out 
once more the knell of the nothingness of all things 
earthly 7, (xii, 8); blit it leads also to “the conclusion 
of the whole matter,” to that to which all trains of 
thought and all the experiences of life had been lead- 
ing the seeker after wisdom, that “to fear God and 
keep his commandments” was the highest good attain- 
able; that the righteous judgment of God would in 
the end fulfil itself and set right all the seeming dis- 
orders of the world (xii, 13, 14). (See two articles on 
the plan and structure of the book of Ecclesiastes, in the 
Method. Quart. Rev. for April and July, 1849, modified 
by Dr. M'Clintock from Vaihinger, in the Theol. Stud, 
u. Krit. for July, 1848 ; also an article by Gurlitt in the 
Stud. u. Krit. for 1864, ii). 

If one were to indulge conjecture, there would per- 


ECCLESIASTES 


34 


ECCLESIASTES 


haps be some plausibility in the hypothesis that xii, 8 
had been the original conclusion, and that the epilogue 
of xii, 9-14 had been added, either by another writer, 
or by the same writer on a subsequent revision. The 
verses (9-12) have the character of a panegyric de- 
signed to give weight to the authority of the teacher. 
The two that now stand as the conclusion may nat- 
urally have originated in the desire to furnish a clew 
to the perplexities of the book, by stating in a broad 
intelligible form, not easy to be mistaken, the truth 
which had before been latent. 

If the representation which has been given of the 
plan and meaning of the book be at all a true one, we 
tind in it, no less than in the book of Job, indications 
of the struggle with the doubts and difficulties which 
in all ages of the world have presented themselves to 
thoughtful observers of the condition of mankind. In 
its sharp sayings and wise counsels it may present 
some striking affinity to the Proverbs, which also bear 
the name of the son of David ; but the resemblance is 
more in form than in substance, and in its essential 
character it agrees with that great inquiry into the 
mysteries of God’s government which the drama of 
Job brings before us. There are indeed characteristic 
differences. In the one we find the highest and bold- 
est forms of Hebrew poetry, a sustained unity of de- 
sign ; in the other there are, as we have seen, changes 
and oscillations, and the style seldom rises above the 
rhythmic character of proverbial forms of speech. The 
writer of the book of Job deals with the great mystery 
presented by the sufferings of the righteous, and writes 
as one who has known those sufferings in their intens- 
ity. In the words of the Preacher, we trace chiefly 
the weariness or satiety of the pleasure-seeker, and 
the failure of all schemes of life but one. In spite of 
these differences, however, the two books illustrate 
each other. In both, though by very diverse paths, 
the inquirer is led to take refuge (as all great thinkers 
have ever done) in the thought that God’s kingdom is 
infinitely great, and that man knows but the smallest 
fragment of it ; that he must refrain from tilings which 
are too high for him, and be content with that which 
is given him to know — the duties of his own life, and 
the opportunities it presents for his doing the will of 
God. — Smith, s. v. There is probably a connection in 
the authorship or editorship of these two books that 
may to some extent account for this resemblance. 
See Job (Hook of). 

V. Commentaries. — The following is a full list of sep- 
arate exegetical works on Ecclesiastes (the most im- 
portant are indicated by an asterisk prefixed): Olym- 
piodorus, Enarratio (in the Bill. 21 ax. xviii, 490 ; 
Grvmetis, p. 953); Origen, Scholia (in Bill. Patr. Gall, 
p. J4); Dionysius Alex. Commentarius (in Opp. i, 14; j 
Append, to Bibl. Patr. Gall.), Gregory Thaum. Meta - 
pkrasis (in Opp. p. 77); Gregory Xyssen. Condones 
(in Opp. i, 373); Gregory Nazianzen, Metaphrasis (in 
Opp. Spur, i, 874), (Ectimeirns, Catena (in Gr., Vero- 
na, 1532); Jerome, Commentarius (in Opp. iii, 383); 
Salonius, Erplicatio (in Bibl. Max. Patr. p. s); Alcuin, 
Comment aria (in Opp. I, ii, 110); Rupert, In Eccles. (in 
Opp. i, 1118); Hugo, IlomilUn (in Opp. i, 53); Hono- 
rius, Commentarius (in Opp. i) ; Bonaventura, Expiosi- 
tio (in Opp. i, 309) • Latif, (Constpl. n. d. 12mo); I 
Seliirwood, Notes (Antw. 1523, 4to) ; Guidacer, Com- 1 
m^nt units (Paris, 1531, 1540, 4to); Arboreus, Commen- 
tarius (Paris, 1531, 1537, fob); Buccr, Commentarius 
(Argent. 1532, 4to) ; Moring, Commentarius (Antw. 
1533, 8vo) ; *Luther, A dnotationes (Witteinb. 1533, 
8vo) : Borrhaus, Commentarius (Basil. 1539, 1504, fol.) ; 
Titelmann, Commentarius (8vo, Par. 1545, 1549, 1577, ; 
1581; Antw. 1552 ; Lugd. 1555, 1575); Melancthon, 
Enarratio (Witteinb. 1550, 8vo); Zuingle, Complanatio 
(in Opp. iii); Brent, Commentarii (in Opp. viii) ; Cajo- 
tanus, Commentarius (Lugd. 1552, fol.) ; Striegel, Scho- 
ol (Lpz. 1505, 8vo) ; Sforno/Jns (Veu.'l567, 4to); I 


Galante, r’zttp (4to, Safet, 1570; Frcft. 1681); 

Sidonitis, Commentaria (in Germ., Mognnt. 1571, fob); 
De Pomis, Discorso (Ven. 1572, Svo) ; Mercer, Commeiu 
tarius (Genev. 1573, fob): Ta'itazak, EEi“' r '">‘13 (Ven. 
157G, 4to) ; Jaisch, nbttp b’J lip-3, etc. (Constpl. 
1576, fob) ; Id., Commentarius (Antw. 1589, 4to) ; Jan- 
sen, Paraphrasis (Leyd. 1578, fob); Galicho, bv 'VXE 
n>np (Ven. 1578, 4to); Corranus, Paraphrasis (Loud. 
1579, 1581, 8vo ; ed. Scultet, Francft. 1618, Ileidelb. 
1619, Svo) ; Senan, Commentarius (Genev*. 1580, 8vo ; 
in Engl, by Stockwood, Loud. 1585, 8vo) ; Manse, Ex- 
plicatio (Flor. 1580, 8vo; Colon. 15S0, 12mo); Lava- 
ter, Commentarius (Tigur. 1584, Svo) ; Beza, Paraphra- 
sis (Genev. 1588, 1598, Svo; in Germ., ib. 1599, Svo); 
Gifford, Commentai'ius (bond. 1589, Svo) ; Strack, Pre- 
digten (4to, Cassel, 1590; Frcft. 1018; Goth. 1GG3); 
Slangendorp, Commentarius (Hafn. 1590, Svo) ; Green- 
ham, Brief Sum (in IFor&s, p. 028); Arepol, E2H zb 
(Constpl. 1591, 4to); Arvivo, pWp b%“ipE (Salonica. 
1597, 4to); Baruch ben-Baruch, DTS: rilbin iTTX; 
(Ven. 1599, fob); Alsclieich, E^pE 1 } (Ven. 

1001, 4to) ; Leuchter, ErJdiirung (Frkft. 1603, 1G11, 
4to); Broughton, Commentarius (Lond. 1005, 4to) ; Lo- 
rinus, Commentai'ius (Lugd. 1C0G, 4to) ; Bardin, with 
various titles (in French, Par. 1009, 12mo; 1032, Svo; 
in Germ., Guelf. 1002, 8vo) ; Fay, Commentarius (Genev. 
1607, Svo); Osorius, Commentarius (Lugd. 1611, 8vo); 
Amama, Notw (in the Crit. Sacri); Sanchez, Commen- 
tarius (Barcin. 1619, 4to) ; *De Pineda, Commentarius 
(Antw. 1620, fol.) ; Ferdinand, Commentarius (Rom. 
1621, fol.); Granger, Commentarius (Lond. 1621, 4to); 
Egard, Expositio (Hamb. 1622, 4to); Penible, Exposi- 
tion (Lond. 1628, 4to); Dieterich, PraZqye/z (fol., Ulm, 
1632, 1655 ; Nurnb. 1665) ; Drusius, Annotationes (Ara- 
sterd. 1635, 4to) ; Guillebert, Paraphrasis (Paris, 1635, 
1642, 8vo); a Lapide, In Eccles. (Antw. 1638, fol.); 
Jermin, Commentary (Lond. 1638, fol.); Cartwright, 
Metajihrasis (4to, Amsterd. 1647 ; 4th edit. ib. 1663) ; 
Trapp, Commentary (Lond. 1650, 4to); *Geier, Commen- 
tarius (4to, Lpz. 1653 ; 5th edit. 1730) ; Mercado, 
(Amst. 1653, 4to); Cotton, Exposition (London, 1654, 
8vo) ; Gorse, Explication (in French, Par. 1655, 3 vols. 
12mo); Lnsitano, H3E5 P2 (Ven. 1656, 4 to); Leigh, 
Commentarius (Lond. 1657, fol.) ; Varenius, Gemmas 
Salomonis (Rost. 1659, 4to) ; Werenfels, llomiliie (Basle, 
1666, 4to); ^Reynolds, Annotations (Lond. 1069, Svo; 
in “Assembly’s Annot. Works,” iv, 33; also edit, by 
Washburn, Lond. 1811); De Sacy, L' Ecclesiaste (ill his 
Salute Bible, s. iv); Anon. Exposition (Lond. 1680, 4 to); 
Bossnet, Libri Scdomonis (Par. 1693, 8vo); Xisbet, Ex- 
position (Edinb. 1694, 4to) ; *Smith, Explicatio (Amst. 
2 vols. 4to, 1699, 1704); Leenhost, Yerklaarnng (te 
Zwolle, 1700, 8vo); Yeard, Paraphrasis (Lond. 1701, 
Svo); Martianov, Commentaire (Par. 1705, 12mo); See- 
bach, Erkldrung (Hal. 1705, 8vo); Tietzmann, Erklii- 
rung (Niirnb. 1705, 4to) ; David ben-Aliron, 
rznp (Prague, 1708, 4to); *Sehniid, Commentarius 
(Strasb. 1709, 4to); Mel, Predigten (Frkft. 1711, 4to); 
Zicrold, Bedeutung, etc. (Lpz. 1715, 4to) ; Rambach, 
Adnotationes (Hal. 1720, Svo); Wachter, Uebers. m. 
Ami. (Memmingen, 1723, 4to); Francke, Commenta - 
rins (Brandenb. 1724, 4to); Welle, Auslegnng (Lpz. 
1729, Svo); Hardouin, Paraphrase (Par. 1729, 12mo); 
Bauer, Erlduterung (Lpz. 1732, lto) ; Ilanssen, Be- 
trachtungen (Lub. 1737, 1744, 4to) ; Lampe, Adnota- 
tiones (in his Medit. Ex<g. Gronig. 1741, 4to) ; Mi- 
ehaelis, Entnickelung (Svo, Gott. 1751; Brem. 1762); 
Anon. Uebers. in. Anm. (Halle, 1760, Svo') ; Peters, .1 p- 
pend. to Crit. Biss. (Lond. 1760, Svo) ; *Des Vcenx, Es - 
say, Analytical Paraphrase , etc. (Lond. 1760, 4to; in 
Germ., Hallo, 1764, 4to); Carmeli, Spiegamento (Ven. 
1765, 8\'o); .1 udetnes, E^H r*12Zi (Amst. 1765, 4to); 
Anon. Cvheleth , a Poem (Lond. 1768, 4to); *Mendels* 


ECCLESIASTIC 


35 ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY 


3 ohn, D. Buck Koheleth, etc. (Berlin, 1770, Svo; 1789, 
4to ; tr. with notes by Preston, Cainbr. 1845, 8vo); 
De Poix, I)’ Arras, and De Paris, IS Ecclesi tste, etc. 
(Par. 1771, 12mo); Anon. Traduct. et Notes (Par. 1771, 
8vo); Moldenhauer, [libers, u. Erliiut. (Lpz. 1772, 8vo); 
Grotius, Aclnotationes (Halle, 1777, 4to) ; Klcuker, Sa- 
lome)’ s Schriften (Lpz. 1777, 8vo); Zinck, Comnientarius 
(Augsb. 1780, 4to) ; Strucnsee, Uebersetzung (Ilalberst. 
1780, 8vo) ; Greenwav, Paraphrase (Lond. 1781, 8vo) ; 
Van der Palm, Keel, illustratus (Level. 1784, 8vo) ; D6- 
derlein, Uebersetung (8vo, Jen. 1784, 1792); Levison, 
rnsin (ITamb. 1784, £vo); Sclileusncr, Auc- 
tarium (Getting. 1785, 4 to) ; Spohn, Uebers. m. Anm. 
(Lpz. 1785, 8vo) ; Neuuhofer, Yersuch (Weissenb. 1787, 
8vo) ; Anon. Paraphrase, etc. (London, 1787, 8vo) ; 
Friedlander, Abkandlung (Berl. 1788, 8vo); Bode, Er - 
ldarende Umschreibung (Quedlinb. 1788, 8vo) ; Lowe, 
r'pil'p (Berl. 1788, 8vo) ; Gregory II, Exptlanatio (Gr. 
and Lat., Veil. 1791, fol.) ; Pacchi, Parafrasi (Modena, 
1791, 8vo) ; Zirkel, Uebers. v. Erkin r. (Wiirzb. 1792, 
8vo) ; Boaretti, Valgarizz. (Yen. 1792, 8vo) ; Hodgson, 
Translation (Lond. 1792, 8vo) ; Schmidt, 1 'ersuch (G iess. 
1794, 8vo); Loanz, *'S‘ 1 V “ 1*2 (4to, Amst. 1695 ; Berl. 
1775); Goab, Beytriige, etc. (Tubing. 1795, 8vo); Nacli- 
tigal, Koheleth (Halle, 1798, Svo); Bergst, Bearbeitung 
(1799, Svo) ; Jacobi, Predigcrhuch (Celle, 1799, Svo) ; 
Frankel, rbllp '777^ E 1 (Dessau, 1800, Svo) ; 
Middeldorpf, Symbols (Fr. ad V. 1811, 4to) ; Kelle, D . 
Salomon. Schriftcn( Freib. 1815, Svo) ; Katzenelnbogen, 
^57? (Wars. 1815, 4to) ; *Umbreit, Uebers. 
u. Burst ell. (Gotha, 1818, Svo ; also his Koheleth scepti- 
cus de summo bono , Gott. 1820, 8vo) ; Wardlaw, Lec- 
tures (Lond. 1821, 2 vols. Svo ; new ed. Lond. 1838, 2 
vols. 12mo); Holden, Illustration (Lond. 1822, 8vo); 
Kaiser, Uebers. u. Erliiut. (Erlang. 1823, Svo); Henz, 
Adnmbratio (Dorpat. 1827, 4to) ; Anon. Uebers. u. Er - 
Idut. (Stuttg. 1827, Svo) ; Rosenmuller, Scholia (pt. ix, 
Lips. 1830, Svo); lleinemann, Commentur (Berl. 1831, 
Svo) ; Koster, Stroph. Uebers. (Sehlesw. 1831, Svo) ; 
Ewald, Koheleth (in his* Poet. Bucher , iv) ; *Ivnobel, 
Commentar (Lpz. 1836, Svo); Auerbach, 
etc. (Bresl. 1837, Svo) ; *Herzfeld, Uebers. u. Erliiut. 
(llraunschw. 1838, Svo) ; Koves, Notes (Bost. 1816 [3d 
ed. 1867], 12ino); Barham, Ecclesiastes (in his Bible 
revised, i); *Hitzig, Erl: Hi rung (in the Kurzgef. Exeg. 
llandb., Lpz. 1847, Svo); Hamilton, Lectures (Lond. 
1851, 12mo) ; * Stuart, Commentary (N. Y. 1851 ; Ando- 
ver, 1862, 12mo); Elster, Commentar (Gotting. 1855, 
Svo) ; M organ, Metrical Paraphrase (Lond. 1856, 4to) ; 
Macdonald, Explanation (N. Y. 1856, Svo) ; Weiss, Ex- 
position (Lond. 1856, 12mo); Plungian, 

(Wilna, 1857, Svo); Wangenhcim, Aus 7 egung (Berlin, 
1858, Svo); *Yaihinger, Uebcrsetz. u. Erklitr. (Stuttg. 
1858, Svo ; his art. on the subject in the Stud. u. Krit. 
1848, was translated in the Metli. Quart. Review , April 
and July, 1849); Rosenthal, r^np r t. »*2, etc. (Prague, 
1858, 8vo) ; Buchanan, Commentary (Glasg. 1859, Svo) ; 
Bridges, Exposition (London, 1859, Svo) ; * He ngs ten- 
berg, Avslegnng (Berl. 1859, Svo; tr. in Clarke’s Li- 
brary, Edinb. 1860, Svo ; also Phila. 1860, Svo) ; Halm, 
Commentar (Lpz. 1860, Svo) ; Bold, De Araismis Kohe- 
leth (Erlang. I860, Svo); *Ginsburg, Coheleth transla- 
ted with a Commentary (Lond. 1861, Svo); Diedrich, 
Erliiut erung (Neu-Rup. 1865, Svo); Oastelli, Tradotto 
e note (Pisa, 1866, 8vo); Young, Commentary (Phila. 
1866, Svo). Others are embraced in the Rabbinical 
Bibles of Bomberg and Moses Frankfurter (q. v.). For 
those in general commentaries, see Commentary. 

Ecclesiastic, Ecclesiastical, of or belonging 
to the Church ( eedesia ). In later times the word ec- 
clesiastic came to be applied solely to clergymen as a 
name, and ecclesiastical is often confined in use, im- 
properly, to the affairs of the clergy, fn the earty 
Church, Christians in general are spoken of by this 


title, in opposition to Jews, infidels, and liereties. The 
word means men of the Church, and was applied to 
Christians as being neither of Jewish synagogues, nor 
heathen temples, nor heretical conventicles, but mem- 
bers of the Church of Christ ; e. g. avepte; hKK'Xifaiarr- 
riKoi, Eusebius, iv, 7, cited by Bingham, Orig. Eccles. 
bk. i, ch. i, § 8. 

Ecclesiastical History is that branch of his- 
torical theology (q.v.) which treats of the development 
of the kingdom of God among men on the earth by 
means of the Church. 

1. Idea and Scope o f Ecclesiastical History t — The ti- 
tle Ecclesiastical Histoiy (Ilistoria Ecclesiastical) was 
used by all tlie older writers on this branch of science. 
German writers began the use, in its stead, of the title 
Church History (Kirehengeschiehte), which has of late 
been adopted also by most English writers. Its idea 
and limits depend on the idea which is formed of the 
Church ( ecclesia ), See Church. 

1. If the Church he regarded as a divine institution, 
existing in all the ages before Christ as well as since, 
then the field of Church history reaches from the be- 
ginnings of the histoiy of the first divine covenant with 
man down to the present time. It would then be di- 
vided into Biblical Church History and Ecclesiastic ed 
History , or simply Church History. Biblical Church 
history, again, could be divided into O. T. and N. T. 
The entire field of Church history, in its widest sense, 
would thus be, I. Old-Testament Church history. II. 
New-Testament Church History, including (1) the life 
of Christ ; (2) the planting of Christianity by tlie apos- 
tles. 111. Ecclesiastical history, beginning at the 
close of the canon, and extending to the present time 
(see Alexander, Notes on N.-T. Literature and Ecclesi- 
astical History, N. Y. 1867, p. 156 sq. ; Stanley, Eastern 
Church , Introduction). 

2. If (as it generally is for convenience), on the 
other hand, the term Church he restricted to the 
Christian Church, then the field of Church history 
is limited to the development of the kingdom of 
God among men through and by means of tlie Chris- 
tian Church. “Its proper starting-point is the incar- 
nation of the eternal Word, who dwelt among us and 
revealed his glory, the glory as of the onlv-begotten 
of the Father, full of grace and truth; and next to 
this the miracle of the first Pentecost, when the Church 
took her [dace as a Christian institution, filled with 
the spirit of the glorified Redeemer, and intrusted 
with the conversion of all nations. Jesus Christ, the 
God-man and Saviour of the world, is the author of 
the new creation, the soul and the head of the Church, 
which is his body and his bride. In his person and 
work lies all tlie fulness of the Godhead and of renew- 
ed humanity, the whole plan of redemption, and the 
key of all liirtory from the creation of man in the im- 
age of God to the resurrection of the body unto ever- 
lasting life” (Schatf, Church Hist. vol. i, § 1). Mod- 
ern writers generally adopt this second view, not only 
for its practical convenience, but also on the theoreti- 
cal ground that the sources of the O. and N. T. history 
are inspired ; those of Church history, since the closing 
of the canon, are human. Tlie former is therefore 
called Sacred History, constituting a department ly 
itself. The relations of Christianity to Judaism and 
heathenism are generally treated by modern writers 
in an Introduction or in separate chapters, as the 
“ Preparation for Christianity in the History of the 
World.” The life of Jesus is so treated ly some writ- 
ers ; by most others it is relegated to a separate work. 
Neander makes one work of “The life of Christ” as 
the ground of the existence of the Christian Church; 
another work treats of the apostolical Church, or “The 
Planting and Training of Christianity by the Aposr 
ties ;” while his great Churck Histoiy continues the 
development after the apostolic age. Nevertheless, in 
treating of “Church Discipline and Constitution,” he 


ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY 


30 ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY 


is compelled to go back to the apostolic age. Dr. 
Sehaff makes “the Church under the Apostles” the 
first division of his History of the Christian Church , and 
gives the relations of Christianity to Judaism and hea- 
thenism in chap, i, as “Preparations for Christianity.” 
Hinds ( History of the Christian Church , 1st Division, 
Encycl. Metropolitana) treats in an Introduction of the 
religion of Jews, Gentiles, and Samaritans, and then 
makes part i the Ministry, of Christ; part ii, the Apos- 
tolic Age ; part iii, Age of the Apostolical Fathers. 

3. As to the relations of Church history to general 
history, dean Stanley remarks: “To a great extent 
the two are inseparable ; they cannot be torn asunder 
without infinite loss to both. ... It is indeed true 
that, in common parlance, ecclesiastical history is of- 
ten confined within limits so restricted as to render 
such a distinction only too easy. . . . Gibbon’s De- 
cline and Fall of the Roman Empire is, in great part, 
however reluctantly or unconsciously, the history of 
the ‘rise and progress of the Christian Church.’ . . . 
Never let us think that we can understand the history 
of the Church apart from the history of the world, any 
more than we can separate the interests of the clergy 
from the interests of the laity, which are the interests 
of the Church at large. . . . How to adjust the rela- 
tions of the two spheres to each other is almost as in- 
definite a task in history as it is in practice and in 
philosophy. In no age are they precisely the same” 
{Eastern Church , Introduction). A book written from 
this point of view, however, would be rather a history 
of Christianity in its relations to the general develop- 
ment of man than a history of the Church. So Mil- 
man’s Latin Christianity is, to great extent, a general 
history of the times rather than of the Christian 
Church, while, at the same time, the Church is the 
prominent feature of it. It is well that such a book 
should be written, and the work has been well done 
by dean Milman. 

II. Method of Church History. — The order and ar- 
rangement of the material have varied greatl} r at dif- 
ferent periods. The earliest writers (e. g. Eusebius) 
wrote generally without scientific method, and their 
arrangement was arbitrary and fortuitous. In the 
Church of the Middle Ages history was little studied, 
and what little was written was put in the form of 
simple chronicles. The lirst application of method 
was really made in the Magdeburg Centuries, project- 
ed by Matthias Flacius lllyricus (1550-1574). See 
Centuries. The history is divided into centuries, 
with a topical arrangement under each century of six- 
teen heads as rubrics, viz. : 1. General view; 2. Ex- 
tent of the Church ; 3. Its external condition ; 4. Doc- 
trines; 5. Heresies; G. Kites; 7. Polity; 8. Schisms; 
9. Councils ; 10. Bishops and doctors; 11. Heretics ; 
12. Martyrs; 13. Miracles ; 14. Jews ; 15. Other relig- 
ions; 1G. Political changes affecting the condition of 
the Church. This centurial arrangement (combined 
with the rubrical subdivision) maintained its ground 
for two centuries: the last great work which follows 
it is Mosheim’s Institutes of Ecclesiastical History. 
Mosheim divides the material under each century into 
external and internal history, and these again as fol- 
lows : External events into prosperous and adverse; 
internal history” into, 1. State of literature and science; 
2. Government of the Church; 8. Theology; 4. Kites 
and ceremonies; 5. Heresies and schisms. The later 
historians divide the whole history into periods, deter- 
mined by great events, and then arrange the mate- 
rial under each period by topics or rubrics. Each 
writer, of course, frames his periods according to his 
own news of the great epochal events of history, but 
most of them make three great periods — ancient , medi- 
ated, and modem , the first beginning with the day 
of Pentecost; the second with Gregory the Great, 
A. I). 590 (acc. to others, with Constantine, 30G or 311, 
or the fall of the West Roman empire, 47G, or Charle- 
magne, 800); the third with the Reformation, 1517. 


Perhaps the best modern division is that of Schaff, 
who proposes nine periods, viz., three ancient, three 
mediieval, three modern , viz. : I. The Apostolic Church, 
A.D. 1-100. II. The Church persecuted as a sect, to 
Constantine, the first Christian emperor, A.D. 100-311. 

III. The Church in union with the Graeco-Koman em- 
pire, and amid the storms of the great migration, to 
pope Gregory I, A.D. 311-590. IV. The Church plant- 
ed among the Germanic nations, to Hildebrand, A.D. 
590-1019. V. The Church under the papal hierarchy 
and the scholastic theology, to Boniface VIII, A.D. 
1049-1294. VI. The deca} r of mediaeval Catholicism, 
and the preparatory movements of Protestantism, A.D. 
1294—1517. VII. The evangelical reformation and the 
lioman Catholic reaction, A.D. 1517-1600. VIII. The 
age of polemic orthodoxy and exclusive confession- 
aiism, A.D. 1600-1750. IN. The spread of infidelity 
and the revival of Christianity in Europe and Ameri- 
ca, from 1750 to the present time (Ch. Hist, i, 14). Dr. J. 
A. Alexander {Op. cit. p. 214 sq.) objects to the minute 
and fixed rubrical arrangement on various grounds, 
and proposes to set it aside altogether “as a framework 
running through the history and determining its whole 
form, and to substitute a natural arrangement of the 
topics by combining a general chronological order 
with a due regard to the mutual relative importance 
of the topics themselves, so that what is prominent at 
one time may he wholly in the background at another, 
instead of giving all an equal prominence at all times, 
h}” applying the same scheme or formula to all alike. 
This natural method, so called to distinguish it from 
every artificial or conventional arrangement, far from 
being new, is recommended by the practice and exam- 
ple of the best historians in every language and in ev- 
ery age, affording a presumptive, if not a conclusive, 
proof both of its theoretical consistency and of its prac- 
tical efficiency and usefulness, and, at the same time, a 
convenient means of keeping this and other parts of 
universal history in mutual connection and agreement 
with each other.” Sec also Baur, Epochen d. kirch- 
lichen Geschichtschreihung (Tubingen, 1852). 

III. Branches of Church History. — The number of 
branches into which the history is divided will of 
course depend upon the method adopted (see above ; 
hut the historian, besides setting forth the progress of 
Christianity in the world and its vicissitudes, must 
also treat, more or less fully, of the constitution and 
government of the Church (ecclesiastical polity); of 
the history of doctrines ; of worship, religious usages, 
domestic life ; of creeds, etc. Some of these are of so 
great importance as to justify treatment in separate 
books, and they have, in fact, grown to be independent 
branches of science : e. g. archaeology, history of doc- 
trines, symbolics, patristics and patrology (the doc- 
trine and literature of the fathers, etc.), history of 
councils, Church polity, etc. 

IV. Sources of Church History. — For the history of 
the Jewish Church and of the Apostolical Church, we 
find our sources of information in the O. and X. Testa- 
ments. For the history since the closing of the Canon, 
the sources are given by Kurtz as follows: “ They 
are partly primary (original), such as monuments and 
original documents ; partly secondary (derived), among 
which we reckon traditions, and reported researches of 
original sources which have since been lost. Monu- 
ments, such as ecclesiastical buildings, pictures, and 
inscriptions, are commonly only of very subordinate 
use in Church history. But archives, preserved and 
handed down, are of the very greatest importance. To 
this class also belong the acts and decrees of ecclesias- 
tical councils; the regesta and official decrees of the 
popes (decretals, briefs) and of bishops (pastoral let- 
ters) ; the laws and regesta issuing from imperial chan- 
cellories, so far as these refer to ecclesiastical affairs ; 
the rules of monastic orders, liturgies, confessions of 
faith, letters of personages influential in Church or 
State; reports of eye-witnesses ; sermons and doctrinal 


ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY 3 V ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY 


treatises of acknowledged theologians, etc. If the doc- 
uments in existence are found insufficient, we must 
have recourse to earlier or later traditions, and to the 
historical investigations of those who had access to 
original documents which are now no longer extant” 
(; Text-book of Church History, vol. i, § 3). “The pri- 
vate writings of personal actors in the history, the 
works of the Church fathers for the first six centuries, 
of the scholastic and mystic divines for the Middle 
Ages, and of the Reformers and their opponents for 
the 10th century, are the richest mines for the histo- 
rian. They give history in its birth and actual move- 
ment; but they must be carefully sifted and weighed, 
especially the controversial writings, where fact is gen- 
erally more or less adulterated with party spirit, heret- 
ical and orthodox” (Seliaff, Church History , vol. i, § 3). 

V. Literature . — (1.) Apostolic Church. The Acts of 
the Apostles may be regarded as the first Church his- 
tory, for they describe the planting of the Church 
among Jews and Gentiles from Jerusalem to Rome. 
(In what follows we make free use of Dr. Schaff, vol. i.) 
(2.) Greek Church. Eusebius (q. v.) won by his Church 
history (tKKXijoiaoTiict) toropio, up to A.D. 324) the 
title of the Father of Church history, though he was 
able to make use of the work of a predecessor, Hege- 
sippus (about A.D. 150). Eusebius is learned, moder- 
ate, and truth-loving, and made use of many sources 
of information which are now lost. As a work of art 
his work is inferior to the classic historians. It was 
continued on the same plan and in a similar spirit by 
Socrates, Sozomen, and Theodoret in the fifth, and by 
the Arians Theodoras and Evagrius in the sixth centu- 
ries. Among the later Greek Church historians Nice- 
phorus Callistus (about 1333) deserves mention. A 
Church history in the modern Greek Church was be- 
gun in 1866 by Const. Kontogonis (EKKXijotaoTiKi) 
ierropta e'nro rtjg Seiag ovoTcieruog rl/g tKKXrimag /i£- 
Xpi twv Kaf ijficig xpoviov, vol. i, Athens, 1866). (3.) 

The Latin Church before the Reformation was long con- 
tent with translations and extracts from Eusebius and 
his continuators, and but one work of consequence was 
produced during the Middle Ages. (4.) The Homan 
Church after the Reformation. At the head of Roman 
writers in Church history stands cardinal Baronins 
(f 1607), whose Annales Ecclesiastici (Rome, 1588 sq., 12 
vols. fol.) come down to the year 1188. They were 
continued, though with less ability, by Raynaldns, 
Bzovius, Spondanus, and very recently, from the year 
1572, by Theiner (Rome, 1853 sq., fol.). The Annales 
were designed as a refutation of the Magdeburg Cen- 
turies (see Centuries), and were refuted in part not 
only by several Protestant writers, but also by Roman 
scholars, e. g. by Pagi. The work of Natalis Alexan- 
der (f 1724), I I is tori a Ecclesiastica V. et N. T. (Par. 1693 
sq., 8 vols. fol. ; Bingii, 1785-91, 20 vols.), is Gallican, 
learned, and, on the whole, a very valuable work. 
Fleury ( Ilistoire EccUsiastique , Par. 1691-1720, 20 vols. 
4to) commends himself by mildness of spirit, fluency 
of style, and copiousness of material. Bossuet (f 1704) 
wrote in a very elegant style a history of the world : 
Discours sur V Ilistoire Universelle depuis le commence- 
ment dn monde jusqu'it, I empire de Charlemagne (Par- 
is, 1681). Tillemont (f 1698) compiled, almost en- 
tirely in the words of the original authorities, his Me- 
moires pour servir a I'histoire ecclesiastique des six pre- 
miers siecles (Paris, 1693 sq., 4to), which is the most 
thorough of all the French Church histories. The 
first comprehensive work in Roman Catholic Germany 
was commenced by count Stolberg, Geschichte der Re- 
ligion Jesu Christi (Hamburg, 1806-1818, 8vo). The 15 
vols. which he completed bring the history down to the 
year 430. The work is very copious, and written with 
the enthusiasm of a poet, but is not critical. The con- 
tinuation, by Kerz (vols. 16-38, 8vo, Mentz, 1824-51, 
to A.D. 1300) and Brischar (vol. 39 sq., 8vo), are still 
inferior. The work of Katerkamp ( Kzrchengeschichte ) 
(1819-30 to 1073, 4 parts, 8vo) is by far more thorough. 


Rolirbacher’s Ilistoire Universelle de VEglise (Par. 1842 
-48, vol. 29, 8vo; a continuation containing the Church 
history from 1860-1866, by J. Chantrel, Corbeil, 1867) 
is -written from an ultramontane stand-point, and has 
not made sufficient use of the recent investigations. 
The best Roman Catholic manuals of Church history 
are those of Dollinger (Gesch. d. christi. Kirche , vol. i, 
parts 1 and 2, Landshut, 1833-35 ; Lchrbuch d.Kirchen- 
gesch. vol. i, and part 1 of vol. ii, up to the Reformation, 
Ratisbon, 1836 sq. ; 2d edit. 1843 ; Kirchctigeschichfe , 
vol. i, part 1, lleidentlium u. Judenthum, Ratisbon, 1857 ; 
part 2, Christenthum n. Kirche in der Zeit ihrer Grundle- 
gung , 1860), Ritter ( Ilandbuch d. Kirchengcsch. Bonn, 
1826-35, 3 vols. ; 6th edit., 1856, 2 vols.), and especial- 
ly Alzog ( Universalgeschichte der christlichen Kirche , 
Mainz, 1843, 8vo; 8th edit. 2 vols., 1S67-G8). Post- 
humous lectures on Church history by Dr. Mohlcr 
(died 1838), the greatest Roman Catholic theologian 
of Germany in the 19th century, were published thirty- 
years after his death by Dr. Gams ( Kirchengeschichle , 
3 vols. Ratisbon, 1868). (5.) Protestant Writers. The 
first comprehensive Church history from the Pro- 
testant stand-point was compiled by Mathias Flacius 
(f 1575), surnamed Illyricus ( Ecclesiastica Ilistoria No- 
vi Testamenti, usually called Centuriee Magdeburgenses , 
Basil, 1559-74, fol.), assisted by ten other theologians. 
It followed the centurial arrangement, and treated of 
13 centuries in as many folio volumes. It remained 
long the standard work of the Lutheran Church, though 
it is to a certain' extent partial and often uncritical 
(see Centuries), llottinger (f 1667) published a 
similar work (from the stand-point of the Swiss Re- 
formed Church), Ilistoria Ecclesiastica N. Testamenti 
(Zurich, 1655-67, 9 vols.) extending to the 16th cen- 
tury, but it is inferior to that of Flacius. A thorough 
refutation of Baronins was furnished by Spanlieim 
(Summa Histories Ecclesiasticee , Lngd. Bat. 1689, 4to). 
An attempt to free Church history from the fetters of 
confessionalism was made by J. G. Arnold (in his Un- 
jKirteiische Kirch.-und Ketzerhistorie, 1698-1700,4 vols., 
to 1688), which, however, was often unjust towards the 
predominant churches through partiality towards the 
sects. Objective Church history was greatly advanced 
by Mosheim (f 1755), a moderate and impartial Luther- 
an. II is Institutiones histories ecclesiasticee antique et 
recentioris (Ilelmstadt, 1755, 4to) is, in the English 
translation of Murdock (N. Y., 1841, 3 vols., 3d edit.) 
and McLaine, a favorite text-book in England and 
America to the present day. Of the two, Murdock’s is 
far the best. The -work of Schrockh, Christliclie Kir- 
chengeschichte (45 vols., to the end of the 18th century, 
Leipzic, 1768-1812 ; the last 2 vols. are by Tzscliirner), 
though leaning towards Rationalism, is very valuable 
for reference. The principal representative of Ration- 
alism among Church historians is Henke, Allgemeine 
Geschichte der christlichen Kirche (Braunschweig, 1788- 
1823, 9 vols. 8vo, continued by Yater). The work of 
Gieseler (f 1854), Lchrbuch der Kirchengeschichte (Bonn, 
1824-1857) gives the history as much as possible in 
the very words of the sources. It is profoundly learn- 
ed and impartial, but cold and dry. The best English 
translation of it is by Prof. H. 13. Smith (New York, 
1857 sq.). Neandcr (f 1850) is generally considered 
as the father of modern Church history. His aim was 
to represent Church history as a continuous proof of the 
divine power of Christianity, and it is therefore promi- 
nently the inner side of ecclesiastical events and their 
religious signification which he unfolds. His Allge- 
meine Geschichte der christlichen Religion nnd Kirche 
(Hamburg, 1825-52, 11 vols. 8vo, extending to the 
council of Basle) has been translated into English by 
Torrey (Boston, 1847-51, 5 vols. 8vo). Besides these 
larger works, Germany has produced a great number 
of excellent manuals. The most important of these 
are those of Niedner (1846, new ed. 1866), distinguish- 
ed for fulness and thought; of Hase (9th edit. 1867, 
translated by Blumenthal and Wing, New York, 1855j 


ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY S3 ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY 


8vo), distinguished for copiousness combined with con- 
ciseness ; and Guericke (9th edit. 1807, translated by 
Shedd, vol. i, 1857), who wrote the best historical work 
from the old Lutheran stand-point. More a sketch 
than a manual of Church history is the Kirchenge- 
schichte of Schleiermaclier, published after his death 
byBonncll (Berlin, 18-10, 8vo). The manual of Engel- 
hardt, of Erlangen ( IJandb . d. Kirchengeschichte , Erlan- 
gen, 1832-3-1,4 vols.), is an unpretending but valuable 
arrangement of the subject, as derived from the sources. 
The manual of Frickc, left incomplete ( Lehrbuch der 
Kirchengeschichte , Leipz. 1850, 1 vol.), learned but stiff, 
is a production of the school of Schleiermaclier. In 
Gfrorer’s work on ecclesiastical history ( Alfgemeine 
Kirchengeschichte , 4 vols. Stuttgardt, 1841-40 to 1305, 
Christianity is treated as the natural product of the 
time in which it originated. Clerical selfishness, polit- 
ical calculations and intrigues, appear the sole princi- 
ples of ecclesiastical movements which this author can 
appreciate or discover. Still, the work is of importance ; 
and those volumes especially which detail the history 
of the Middle Ages give evidence of original study, and 
contain much fresh information. The manual of Ja- 
cobi, a pupil of Neander ( Lehrb . der Kirchengeschichte , 
Berlin, 1850, 1 vol., not completed), breathes the same 
spirit as that of his teacher. Its tone is elevated ; nor 
is the author content merely to imitate Neander. The 
prelections of Hagen bach {Die christl. Kirchc der 3 er- 
sten Jahrhunfterte , 2 vols. Leipz. 1853-55 ; D. christl. K. 
rom 7' 1 ' 1 bis zum 15' cw Jahrhundert , Leipz. 1860-61), 
originally delivered to an educated audience, are some- 
what diffuse, but clear and attractive. The} 7 breathe 
throughout a warm Christian spirit, nor is the judg- 
ment of the lecturer warped by narrow sectarian preju- 
dices. The works by .T. A. Kurtz {Lehrbuch der Kir- 
chengeschichte, Mitau, 1842, 5th ed. 1863; Engl, transl. 
in 2 vols., Philadelphia, 1860; Ilandbuch der allgem. 
Kirchengesch. vol. i in 3 parts, Mitau, 1853 54, vol. ii, 
pt. i, 1856) belong among the best productions of the 
Lutheran school. To the same school belong the 
manuals of \V. B. Lindner {Lehrbuch der christl. Kir- 
chengeschichte, Leipz. 1847-54) and H. Schmid {Lehrb. 
der Kirchengeschichte , Nordlingcn, 1851). The man- 
ual of Ebrard {Ilandbuch der christl. K.-u. Dogmen- 
gesch. Erlangen, 1865-66, 4 vols.) is written from the 
stand-point of the United Evangelical Church, as is 
also the work of Prof. F. A. ITasse {Kirchengesch. Leipz. 
1864-65,3 vols.), published after the author's death by 
A. Kohler. The works published by F. C. Baur, the 
founder of the Tubingen school on the Church history 
of the first six centuries {Das Christenthum u. d. christl. 
K. der drei ersten Jnhrh. Tiib. ls53, 3d ed. 1863, and 
Die christl. K. des 4-6 Jahrh. Tiib. 1859, 2d ed. 1863), 
were after his death completed, so as to form a con- 
tinuous and complete Church history, by the publica- 
tion of three volumes, treating severally of the Church 
history of the Middle Ages, of the time from the Ref- 
ormation to the end of the 18th century, and of the 
19th century. The five volumes appeared together, 
under the title ( leschichte d. ckrist. Kirche (Tubingen, 
1863-64, 5 vols.). A Church history in biographies 
was published by F. Bbhringer {Die Kirche Christl wul 
Hire Zeugen , Zurich, 1842-58). 

Among the English works we mention Milner 
(f 1797), Jlistorg of the Ch. of Christ to the 16th cen- 
tury (revised edit, by Grantham, Bond. 1817, 4 vols. 
8vo). It has been continued by Dr. Stcbhing, The 
] list, of the Church of Christ from 1530 to the Eighteenth 
Ceitturg (London, 1839 sq.,3 vols. 8vo), and a further 
continuation by Haweis (Edinh. 1834, 8vo) ; Wadding- 
ton, History of the Church from the earliest Ages to the 
Deformation (Lond. 2d edit. 3 vols. 8vo), and Jlist. of 
the Ileform. on the Continent (Lond. 1841, 3 vols. Svo), 
is neither accurate nor profound ; Foulkcs, Manual of 
Ecclesiastical Ilist. (1851, to the 12th cent.); Robert- 
son, Hist, of the Church (Lond. 2 vols. 1854-56, 8vo) to 
1122; Milnian, Jlist. of Christianity (Lond. 1840, 3 vols. 


Svo, reprinted in New York), and Jlist. of Latin Chris- 
tianity (Lond. 1854 sq. 6 vols. to Nicholas V ; 4th ed. 
in 9 vols. 1867, reprinted in New York), an elaborate 
and at the same time brilliant work; Hardwick, Jlist. 
of the Christ. Church , vol. i Middle Age, vol. ii Ref- 
ormation (Cambridge, 1853 and 1856, Svo), an admira- 
ble manual, but left unfinished by the sudden death 
of the author ; Hinds, Jeremic, and others, Church 
Jlistorg, in the Encyclopaedia Metropolitan «, and in a 
separate edition (Lond. 1850-58, 4 vols. Svo) ; Killen, 
The Ancient Church (Belfast and New York, 1859, 8 vo), 
an able work from the Presbyterian stand-point. The 
best works produced in this field in America are those 
by Prof. Schaff {Ilist. of the Apostolic Age, New York, 
1853, Svo, and Jlist. of the Christian Ch. vol. i to A.D. 
311, New York, 1859, vols. ii and iii to Gregory the 
Great, New York, 1867. They have also appeared in 
a German edition, Geschickte iler christl. Kirche , vol. i, 
Mercersburg, 1851, and Leipzie, 1854; vols, ii and iii, 
Leipz. 1867). They are distinguished by copiousness 
of material, philosophical arrangement, and attractive 
style. A brief work on the history of the Christian 
Church has been published by Dr. C. M. Butler (Phila, 
1868). In Protestant France a luminous sketch of 
Church history was written by J. Matter {Jlist. Uni- 
verselle de V Eghse Chritiemie ), Strasburg, 1829, 2 vols.; 
2d edit. Paris, 1838, 4 vols.). 

In addition to the above works, which (unless the 
contrary is specially mentioned) embrace the whole 
history of the Christian Church, there is a very co- 
pious literature on special periods. The works treat- 
ing of the primitive Church have been given in the 
article on the Apostolic Age. An able work on 
the history of the first three centuries has been pub- 
lished by Ed. de Pressense {llistoire des trots pre- 
miers siecles, Paris, 1858, 2 vols.) ; also handbooks of 
modern Church history, by Dr. Nippokl (Elberfeld, 
1867) and llagcnbach (1865). For the ample litera- 
ture on the period of the Reformation, see the arti- 
cle Reformation. The literature on branches of 
ecclesiastical history, such as history of heresies, 
councils, particular religious denominations, popes, 
saints, countries, monasticism, crusades, etc., and that 
on prominent men of Church history, is given in the 
special articles treating of those subjects. Tables of 
Church history, presenting in parallel columns the va- 
rious departments of history, have been compiled in 
Germany bv Yater (Halle, 6th ed. 1833), Danz (Jena, 
1838), Lange (Jena, 1841), Douay (Leipzie, 1841), Uhle- 
maim (to the Reformation, 2d edit. Berlin, 1865); in 
England, by Riddle {Ecclesiastical Chronology , London, 
1840) : in America, by H. B. Smith {Jlist. of the Ch. of 
Christ in chronol. Tables, New York, 1859), which work 
has considerably improved the plan of all its predeces- 
sors, and, in fact, is the most thorough and complete 
work of the kind extant. Special dictionaries of 
Church history were compiled by W. D. Fnlirmann 
{I landworterbuch der christl. DeUgions-u. Kirchengesch . 
Halle, 1826-29, 3 vols.) and Ncudecker {Allgem. Lex . 
der Religions-u. christl. Kirchengesch. Weimar, 1834-37, 

5 vols.). Periodicals specially devoted to ecclesiasti- 
cal history have been published by Stiindlin. Tzsehir- 
ner, and Yater {Magazinfur Deliyions-u. Kirchengesch., 
by Staudlin, 4 vols. Hanover, 1802-5; Archiv fiir alte 
u. neue Kirchengesch. Staudlin u. Tzschirner, 1813- 
1822, 5 vols. ; Kirchraihist. A rchiv, by Staudlin, Tzscbir- 
ner, u. Yater, 4 vols. Hallo, 1823-20) ; by Illgen, Nied- 
ner, ami Kahilis {Zeitschrift fur hist. Theolngie, Leipz. , 
1832-1 868 ; established by 1 llgen : since 1 845, by Nied- 
ner; since 1867, by Kalmis); by Kist and Rovaards 
(A r chief voor Kerkelijke C.eschidents , Leyden, 1829 sq.). 
See Herzog, Deal-Encyklop. vii, 622; Hugenbaeli, The- 
ol. Encgklnp. p. 212 sq. ; Wetzer u. Welte. Kirchen-Lex, 
vi, 130 ; Christian Remembrancer, xliii, 62 ; Jortin, De- 
marks on Ecclesiastical History ; Princeton Dev. xxvi, 
300 ; xxix, 636 ; Stanley, Eastern Church {Introduction 
on the Study of Church History')-, Dowling, Introduction 


ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY 39 ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY 


ti the Critical Study of Ecclesiastical History attempted 
in an A ccount of the Progress , and a short Notice of the 
Sources , of the History of the Church (Lond. 1838, 8vo). 

Ecclesiastical Polity denotes the principles 
and laws of Church government. Personal religion is 
a matter between the individual man and his Maker. 
But religion necessarily involves social relations; that 
is to say, it involves society; and no society of men 
can exist without government. True, there can be no 
compulsion in religion ; but government is not incon- 
sistent with freedom; nay, it is necessary to all true 
enjoyment of freedom in any society, religious or 
other. The “two conditions essential to a good relig- 
ious government are, first, a good system for the for- 
mation and organization of authority; and, second, a 
good system of security for liberty” (Guizot, History 
of Civilization , N. Y. 12mo, p. 121). So Richard Wat- 
son : “ The Church of Christ being visible and perma- 
nent, bound to observe certain rites and to obey cer- 
tain rules, the existence of government in it is neces- 
sarily supposed.” 

Is any form, of Church polity divinely ordained ? 
Perhaps the conclusion on this point most generally 
adopted at the present day is that, while certain fun- 
damental principles of Church government are laid 
down in the N. T., no specific form of polity is there 
enjoined. Comp. Matt, xx, 20-28, with Mark x, 35- 
45, and Matt, xxiii, 1-11. These passages clearly pro- 
hibit all arbitrary rule in the Church, and are utterly 
inconsistent with hierarchical assumptions; there is 
“but one Master, and all are brethren.” The doc- 
trine of these passages is that the members of the 
Church are on one level in presence of Christ the 
Head. We gather some elements of polity from the 
practice of the apostles as recorded in their acts and 
writings. This polity is not presented as legislative 
enactments, but simply as facts, showing how the 
apostles acted in given cases. In the first account we 
find the Church composed of the apostles and other 
disciples, and then of the apostles and “ the multitude 
of them that believed.” Tlcnce it appears that the 
Church was at first composed entirely of members 
standing on an equality with one another, and that 
the apostles alone held a higher rank, and exercised a 
directing influence over the whole body, which arose 
from the original position in which Christ had placed 
them (Neander, Planting and Training , p. 32). The 
Gospel is designed to extend to every climate, in every 
age, under every variety of race, of national life and 
character, and of civil institutions ; accordingly, its 
settled, fundamental, necessary rules are few and sim- 
ple; it establishes principles rather than rules; the 
very regulations which the apostles made were in 
many instances of local, temporary use only. 

The claim of divine right on the part of the clergy 
to govern the Church grew up with the hierarchy. 
See Episcopacy. Even after the introduction of 
episcopacy, in the early Church, the bishops and teach- 
ers were chosen by the clergy and people ; the bishop 
managed the ecclesiastical affairs of his diocese in 
council with the presbyters, and “ with a due regard 
to the suffrages of the whole assembly of the people.” 
“In whatever way the control of ecclesiastical affairs 
by the laity, or, rather, by the whole community, is 
exercised, there can be no question that it is in them 
that by the New Testament and by the first ages of 
Christendom the supremacy over the Church was vest- 
ed. They elected their ministers. They chose their 
own faith, they moulded their own creed, they admin- 
istered their own discipline, the}’’ were the Ecclesia, 
the Assembly, ‘the Church’” (Dean Stanley, Address 
on Church and State , 1868). But the union of Church 
and State under Constantine consolidated the hierar- 
chical power, and the rights of the laity gradually fell 
into abeyance. It is ail essential doctrine of the hie- 
rarchical system that the duty of teaching includes 
also the power of ruling; and all Church authority 


therefore belongs to the clergy, who constitute the ec- 
clesia docens. In the Roman Church the government 
is entirely in the hands of the organized clerical hie- 
rarchy, at the head of which stands the pope (see be- 
low). At the Reformation, Luther adopted the doc- 
trine of the universal priesthood (1 Pet. ii, 5, 0; Rev. 

1, G), and this forms the basis of the Lutheran theory 
of Church polity, in which the rights of the laity are 
fairly regarded. “Properly, all Christians have a 
right to teach — every father his own family ; and even 
to administer the sacraments, as even Tertullian truly 
observes. There is, therefore, truly a jus laicorum sa- 
cerdotale , as Grotius, Salmasius, Bolinie, and Spener 
have maintained. Even among the Jews the teachers 
of the people were not priests, but laymen ; and any 
one who had proper qualifications might teach in the 
synagogue or in the temple. Among the ancient Is- 
raelites the prophets were commonly not from the or- 
der of the priesthood, but, for the most part, from other 
tribes, classes, and orders of the people” (Knapp, Lee- 
tures on Chiistian Th eology, Wood s ’ s translation, Pliila., 
1853, 8vo, p. 478). Calvin ( Institutes , book iv) sets out 
from the idea of the Church as the body of Christ. 
He finds a certain “ mode of government delivered to 
us by the pure word of God” (iv, 1), and traces this 
form of government in the early Church until its 
“subversion by the papal tyranny” (ch. v). In sub- 
stance Calvin asserted the following principles : 1. 
That it is unwarrantable and unlawful to introduce 
into the government and worship of the Church any- 
thing which has not the positive sanction of Scripture. 

2. That the Church, though it consists properly and 
primarily only of the elect or of believers, and though, 
therefore, visibility and organization are not essential, 
as Papists allege they are, to its existence, is under a 
positive obligation to be organized, if possible, as a 
visible society, and to be organized in all things, so 
far as possible — its office-bearers, ordinances, worship, 
and general administration and arrangements — in ac- 
cordance with what is prescribed or indicated upon 
these points in the New Testament. 3. That the fun- 
damental principles, or leading features of what is 
usually called Presbyterian Church government, are 
indicated with sufficient clearness in the New Testa- 
ment, as permanently binding upon the Church. 4. 
That the Church should he altogether free and inde- 
pendent of civil control, and should conduct its own 
distinct and independent government by presbyters 
and synods, while the civil power is called upon to af- 
ford it protection and support. 5. That human laws, 
whether about civil or ecclesiastical things, and wheth- 
er proceeding from civil or ecclesiastical authorities, 
do not, per se — i. e. irrespective of their being sanc- 
tioned by the authority of God — impose an obligation 
upon the conscience. Calvin professed to find all 
these principles more or less clearly taught in Scrip- 
ture ( B . and F. Ev. Rev. April, 1860, p. 464). On this 
principle Tnlloch remarks {Leaders of the Reformation , 
p. 179 sq.) that Calvin went too far in asserting that 
Presbyterianism “is the form of the divine kingdom 
presented in Scripture.” “ Presbyterianism became 
the peculiar Church order of a free Protestantism. It 
rested, beyond doubt, on a true divine order, else it 
never could have attained this historical success. But 
it not merely asserted itself to be wise and conforma- 
ble to Scripture, and therefore divine, but it claimed 
the direct impress of a divine right for all its details 
and applications. This gave it strength and influence 
in a riule and uncritical age, but it planted in it from 
the first an clement of corruption. The great concep- 
tion which it embodied was impaired at the root by 
being fixed in a stagnant and inflexible system, which 
became identified with the conception as not only 
equally but specially divine” (p. 181). “But were 
not these ‘elements,’ some will say, really Biblical? 
Did not Calvin establish his Church polity and Church 
discipline upon Scripture ? and is not this a warranta- 


ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY 40 ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY 


l»le course ? Assuredly not, in the spirit in which he 
did it. The fundamental source of the mistake is here. 
The Christian Scriptures are a revelation of divine 
truth, and not a revelation of Church polity. They 
not only do not lay down the outline of such a polity, 
but they do not even give the adequate and conclusive 
hints of one; and for the best of all reasons, that it 
would have been entirely contrary to the spirit of 
Christianity to have done so; and because, in point of 
fact, the conditions of human progress do not admit of 
the imposition of any unvarying system of govern- 
ment, ecclesiastical or civil. The system adapts it- 
self to the life, everywhere expands with it, or nar- 
rows with it, but is nowhere in any particular form 
the absolute condition of life. A definite outline of 
Church polity, therefore, or a definite code of social 
ethics, is nowhere given in the New Testament, and 
the spirit of it is entirely hostile to the absolute asser- 
tion of either the one or the other” (p. 182, 183). Dr. 
Tul loch, however, goes too far himself in saying that 
“Presbyterianism ‘not merely asserted itself to be 
wise and conformable to Scripture, and therefore di- 
vine, but it claimed the direct impress of a divine right 
for all its details and applications.’ This statement is 
untrue. There may be differences of opinion among 
Presbyterians as to the extent to which a divine right 
should be claimed for the subordinate features of the 
system, and some, no doubt, have gone to an extreme 
in the extent of their claims ; but no Presbyterians of 
eminence have ever claimed ‘the direct impress of a 
divine right for a?/ the details and applications’ of their 
system. They have claimed a divine right, or Scrip- 
ture sanction, only for its fundamental principles, its 
leading features. It is these only which they allege 
are indicated in Scripture in such a way as to be bind- 
ing upon the Church in all ages. And it is just the 
same ground that is taken by all the more intelligent 
and judicious among jure divino prelatists and Congre- 
gationalists” (Brit, and For. Ev. Review , April, 1800). 
Moreover, Calvin did not “unchurch” ecclesiastical 
bodies which should not choose to adopt the Presbyte- 
rian regimen. He introduced his scheme where he 
had influence to do so ; and he employed all the vigor 
of his talents in pressing upon distant churches the 
propriety of regulating, in conformity with his senti- 
ments, their ecclesiastical government. But, at the 
same time, he says, “ "Wherever the preaching of the 
Gospel is heard with reverence, and the sacraments 
are not neglected, there at that time there is a church.” 
Speaking of faithful pastors, he describes them to be 
“those who by the doctrine of Christ lead men to true 
piety, who properly administer the sacred mysteries, 
and w ho preserve and exercise right discipline.” 

The Reformers and greatest w riters of the Church 
of England held that no form of Church polity is en- 
joined in Scripture. Cranmer explicitly declared that 
bishops and priests were of the same order at the com- 
mencement of Christianity; and this w r as the opinion 
of several of his distinguished contemporaries. “ Hold- 
ing this maxim, their support of episcopacy must have 
proceeded from view’s of expediency, or, in some in- 
stances, from a conviction which prevailed very gen- 
erally at this early period, that it belonged to the su- 
preme civil magistrate to regulate the spiritual no less 
than the political government ; an idea involving in it 
that no one form of ecclesiastical polity is of divine 
institution. At a later period, during the reign of 
queen Elizabeth, we find the same conviction, that it 
was no violation of Christianity to choose different , 
modes of administering the Church. Archbishop Whit- j 
gift, who distinguished himself by the zeal with which 
he supported the English hierarchy, frequently main- , 
tains that the form of discipline is not particularly, ; 
and by name, set down in Scripture ; and he also plain- 
ly asserts “that no form of Church government is by 
the Scriptures prescribed or commanded toihe Church 
of God” (Watson, s. v.). Hooker maintains this prin- | 


I ciple with great vigor in his Ecclesiastical Polity (book 
1 iii), where the following principles are laid down : 1. 
The Scripture, though the only standard and law of 
doctrine, is not a rule for discipline. 2. The practice 
of the apostles, as they acted according to circum- 
stances, is not an invariable rule for the Church. 3. 
Many things are left indifferent, and may be done 
without sin', although not expressly directed in Scrip- 
ture. 4. The Church, like other societies, may make 
laws for her own government, provided they interfere 
not with Scripture. 5. Human authority may inter- 
pose where the Scripture is silent. G. Hence the 
Church may appoint ceremonies within the limits of 
the Scriptures. Stillingfleet indicates the same view 
at large in his Irenicum : “Those things may be said 
to be jure divino which are not determined one way or 
other by any positive law of God, but are left wholly 
as things lawful to the prudence of men, to determine 
them in a w r ay agreeable to natural right and the gen- 
eral rules of the Word of God.” 11 is conclusion is 
that the reason or ground of Church government, the 
, ratio regiminis ecclesiastici , is of divine right, but that 
the special mode or system of it is left to human dis- 
; cretion. In other words, it is a thing forever and im- 
i mutably right that the Church should be under a defi- 
nite form of government. This is undoubtedly justum. 
In no other way can the peace and unity of the Church 
be secured. But it is by no means equally indubita- 
ble what this form of government must be. The nec- 
essary end may be secured under diverse forms, as in 
the case of civil government. “Though the end of 
all be the same, yet monarchy, aristocracy, and de- 
mocracy are in themselves lawful means for attaining 
the same common end. ... So the same reason of 
Church government may call for an equality in the 
persons acting as governors of the Church in one place 
which may call for superiority and subordination in 
another” (Irenicum, p. 40 sq., Phila. 1840). 

In the modern Church the Romanists and High 
Episcopalians claim divine right for their system of 
government. The Roman Catholic doctrine is thus 
stated (The Catechism of the Council of Trent, published 
by command of pope Pius V, Donovan’s translation, 
Baltimore, n. d., 8vo) : “ Sitting in that chair in which 
Peter the prince of the apostles sat to the close of life, 
the Catholic Church recognises in his person the most 
exalted degree of dignity and the full amplitude of 
jurisdiction — a dignity’- and a jurisdiction not based on 
synodal or other human constitutions, but emanating 
from no less an authority than God himself. As the 
successor of St. Peter, and the true and legitimate 
vicar of Jesus Christ, he therefore presides over the 
universal Church, the father and governor of all the 
faithful, of bishops also, and of all other prelates, he 
their station, rank, or power what they may” (p. 222). 
And (p. 82), speaking of the power of the keys, “ it is 
a power not given to all, but to bishops and priests 
only.” The following extracts from bishop Forbes’s 
Explanation of the Thirty-nine Articles (London and 
New York, 18G7-8, 2 vols. Svo) present a High-Church 
Episcopalian view of this subject : “Thus one depart- 
ment of the Church is to be called the Ecclesia docens . 
To the hierarchy, as distinguished from the great body 
of Christians, is committed the duty of handing down 
and communicating these truths” (Art. xix, p. 2G8 of 
vol. i). . . . “ It having been shown in the preceding 
article that the Ecclesia docens hath power to decree 
rites and ceremonies, and hath authority in contro- 
versies of faith, we come to consider one great channel 
or organ of that power — the oecumenical council. 
Given that the Church has this power, b}- whom or 
how is it to be exercised ? By whom but by the apos- 
tolical ministry, who are appointed ‘for the perfecting 
of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edi- 
fying of the body of Christ;’ by those to whom was 
committed the power of the keys, who had, among 
other duties connected with admission to communion, 


ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY 41 ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY 


to test the orthodoxy of applicants ; by those -whose 
important office it was to hand on the form of sound 
words which they had received to their successors” 
(Art. xxi, p. 288-9 of vol. 5). . . . ‘’Our Lord is the 
immediate founder of the hierarchy, because it was he 
who ordained the apostles bishops when lie said to 
them, ‘As my Father sent me, so send I you ; receive 
the Holy Ghost: go ye into all the world and make 
disciples of every creature ; whatsoever ye shall bind 
or loose on earth shall be bound or loosed in heaven.’ 
These words denote a power without limit; its meas- 
ure is the wants of humanity, its field of action the 
world. At the beginning of the Church there was one 
general episcopate” (Art. xxxvi, p. (i99 of vol. ii). 

. . . “ It is needless to add that the discipline as well 
as the doctrine of the Church was a purely internal 
matter, in which the state had no interest nor control. 

. . . The power of binding and loosing was the char- 
ter of all Church discipline, for it relegated the sanc- 
tion of the visible Church into the unseen world. If 
salvation depended, clave non errante , upon Church 
membership, and Church membership, under certain 
laws, was in the hands of the hierarchy, it placed the 
control of the Church absolutel}' in their hands” (Art. 
xxxvii, p. 728-9 of vol. ii). The moderate Episcopa- 
lians (including Methodists and Moravians) generally 
hold that episcopacy is in harmony with Scripture, but 
is not divinely ordained as essential. For a temperate 
argument in favor of the conformity of the Episcopal 
Church organization to the Scriptures and the practice 
of the early Church, see Browne’s Exposition on the 
Thirty-nine Articles (Amer. ed. N. Y. 1863, Art. xxiii, 
p. 549-576). Archbishop Whatelv (The Kingdom of 
Christ, 2 d ed. N. Y. 1843, 12mo) says (p. 93): “Thus 
a further confirmation is furnished of the view that 
has been taken, viz., that it was the plan of the sacred 
writers to lay down clearly the principles on which 
Christian churches were to be formed and governed, 
leaving the mode of application of those principles un- 
determined and discretionary.” And again (p. 213): 
“They,” i. e. reformers compelled to separate, “have 
an undoubted right, according to the principles I have 
been endeavoring to establish, to appoint such orders 
of Christian ministers, and to allot to each such func- 
tions as they judge most conducive to the great ends 
of the society; they may assign to the whole , or to a 
portion of these, the office of ordaining others as their 
successors; they may appoint one superintendent of 
the rest, or several , under the title of patriarch, arch- 
bishop, bishop, moderator, or any other that they may 
prefer; they may make the appointment of them for 
life or for a limited period, by election or by rotation, 
with a greater or a less extensu e jurisdiction.” Mr. 
Wesley (IForfo, vii, 284, N. Y. 1335) says: “As to my 
own judgment, T still believe ‘the episcopal form of 
Church government to be scriptural and apostolical.’ 
I mean, well agreeing with the practice and writings 
of the apostles. But that it is prescribed in Scripture 
1 do not believe.” Some Presbyterian writers claim 
that the Presbyterian polity is the only one divinely 
ordained. (See especially The Divine Right of Church 
Government , wherein it is proved that the Presbyterian 
government, by preaching and ruling elders, in ses- 
sional, presbyterial, and synodical assemblies, may lay 
the only lawful claim to a divine right according to the 
holy Scriptures, by sundry ministers of Christ within 
the city of London. With an Appendix, containing 
extracts from some of the best authors who have writ- 
ten on Church government, 1ST. Y. 1844, 12mo.) The 
same ground is taken bj' many of the advocates of the 
Congregational system (see especially Dexter, On Con- 
gregationalism , Boston, 1865, Svo, ch. ii). 

The special forms of ecclesiastical polity adopted by 
the various churches will be found stated under the 
name of each Church in its alphabetical place in this 
Cyclopaedia. We only note, in conclusion, one or two 
points in which all forms are concerned. 


1. Synodical government (by councils, synods, as- 
semblies, conferences, etc.) prevails in all the great 
churches of the world except the Independent (includ- 
ing Congregationalists and Baptists). Synods have 
“ been the most universally received type of Church 
government in all ages ; even the fact that the} r have 
undergone so many modifications only serving to bring 
out more prominently the unanimity with which they 
have been upheld on all sides, in the midst of so much 
discordancy respecting almost every other question con- 
nected with ecclesiastical polity. The Greek Church, 
glorying in its agreement with antiquity, will decide 
nothing of consequence without them still ; in the 
Latin Church it has never ceased to be customary to 
appeal to them from the pope ; the Church of England, 
which upholds, and the Church of Geneva, which has 
abjured episcopacy, have made them part and parcel 
of their respective ideals ; in Russia it is the Holy Gov- 
erning Synod by which its national Church affects to 
be ruled. More than this, they were ecclesiastical 
synods that introduced the principle of representative 
government to mediaeval Europe” (Ffoulkes, Christen- 
dom's Divisions , i, 11). 

2. The right of the laity, as an integral part of the 
Church, to share in its government, is admitted by 
all churches except the great hierarchical bodies. In 
the Church of England, Parliament (a lay body) is the 
central power in the government of the Church. In 
the Protestant Episcopal Church lay delegates are ad- 
mitted to the Diocesan and General Conventions. In 
the Presbyterian Church they find their place in Pres- 
bytery, 83 ’ nod, and Assembly. In the Independent 
churches the equality of lavmen and ministers as to 
ecclesiastical rights and powers is fundamental. In 
the Methodist Episcopal Church the supreme judica- 
tory (the General Conference) is as yet (1869) an ex- 
clusively clerical body. But that body has itself ad- 
mitted the rights of the laity to the fullest extent by 
submitting to a popular vote (held in June, 1869) the 
fundamental question whether lay delegation shall be 
practically incorporated into the ecclesiastical system 
or not. The vote is by a very large majority in favor 
of lay delegation, and now (July, 1869) only the con- 
currence in the proposed changes of the Restrictive 
Rules of three fourths of all the members of the Annual 
Conferences, present and voting thereon, is required for 
the admission of lay delegates to the next General Con- 
ference in 1872. In the Methodist Episcopal Church 
South, this change in its polity was, by the General 
Conference held in 1866, likewise submitted to the An- 
nual Conferences, and, having received the requisite 
approval, lay delegation lias been incorporated into its 
economy. This subject of controversy in the Methodist 
Episcopal churches of the United States seems, there- 
fore, now on the eve of settlement. For other points re- 
lated to ecclesiastical polity, see Church; Church 
ani> State; Discipline; Episcopacy; Laity. 

Literature. — Hooker, Laws of Ecclesiastical Polity 
(IForfa, vol. i) ; Potter, Discourse of Church Govern- 
ment (lFocA-s, vol. ii); Stillingfleet, Irenicum (Rliilad. 
1842, 8vo) ; Watson, Institutes , pt. iv ; Litton, Church 
ofChrist( Lond. 1851, Svo) ; Bari ett, Ministry anti Polity 
of the Christian Church (Loud. 1854, 12mo); King, Prim- 
itive Church (X. Y. 12mo); Stevens, Church Polity (N. 
Y. 1852, 12 mo) ; Coleman, Primitive Church , p. 38-50 ; 
Wilson, On Church Government ; Davidson (Congrega- 
tional), Ecclesiastical Polity of the New 7 estament (Loud. 
1854, 12mo); Morris (Bishop), On Church Polity (18mo) ; 
Fillmore Ecclesiastical Polity , its Farms and Philosophy ; 
Ripley (Congregational), Church Polity (Boston, 1867, 
18mo) ; Garratt, Inquiry into the Scriptural 1 lew of the 
Constitution of a Christian Church (Lond. 1848) ; A ew 
Englander, August, I860, art. vi (Congregational); 
Leicester A, Sawyer, Organic Christianity , or the Church 
of Cod, with its Officers and Government, and its Divisions 
and Variations, both in ancient , mediaeval, and modern 
Times (Boston, 1854, 12mo ; Congregational). 


• ECCLESIASTICUS 


42 


ECCLESIASTICUS 


Ecclesias'ticus, one of the most important of 
the apocryphal books of the 0. T. (see Apocrypha), 
being of the class ranked in the second canon. See 
D RUT ERO-C ANOXIC A L. 

I. Title. — The original Hebrew title of this book, ac- 
cording to the authority of the Jewish writings and 
St. Jerome ( Pnrf, \ in Libr . Sol. 5x, 124*2), was 
Proverbs , or, more fully, the 

Proverbs of Jesus , son of Sira , which was abbreviated, 
according to a very common practice, into 
ISen-Sira; p1“Pp, Sirnk, which we find in a few later 
writers, evidently originated from a desire to imitate 
the Greek ^ipd\. Hence all the quotations made from 
this book in the Talmud and Midrashim are under 
these titles. (Comp. Mishna, Yadaim , iii, 15 ; Chagiga , 
p. 15 ; Midrusk Rabba, p. C, b . ; Tanchuma , p. G9, a, 
etc.) The Greek MSS. and fathers, however, as well 
as the prologue to this book, and the printed editions 
of the Sept., designate it 'E.opia 'lijcrov viov Sipdy (v. 
r. £etp«y, and even l'?/o«\), The wisdom of Jesus , the 
son of Sirach , or, by way of abbreviation, Hocpia 
The wisdom of Sirach , or simply Sirach ; also go (pi a i) 
7zcnn’tptTOQ,ov simply y) Travdptrog, The book of all vir- 
tues, because of the excellency and diversity of the 
wisdom it propounds (Jerome, /. c. ; comp. Routh, Pell . 
Sacr. i, 278). In the Syriac version the book is en- 
titled The book of Jesus , the son of Simeon Asiro (i. e. 
the bound) ; and the same book is called the wisdom of 
the Son cf Asiro. In many authors it is simply styled 
Wisdom (Orig. in Matt, xiii, § 4; compare Clem. Al. 
Peed, i, 8, § 69, 72, etc.), and Jesus Sirach (August, ad 
Simplic. i, 20). The name Ecclesiasticus , by which it 
has been called in the Latin Church ever since the 
second half of the fourth century (Rnfinus, Vers. ; Orig. 
Horn, in Xum. xvii, 3), and which has been retained in 
many versions of the Reformers (e. g. the Zurich Bi- 
ble, Coverdale, the Geneva version, the Bishops’ Bible, 
and [together with the other title] the Auth. Version) 
is derived from the old Latin version, adopted by Je- 
rome in the Vulgate, and is explained to mean church 
reading-book. Cal met, however, is of opinion ( Preface ) 
that this name was given to it because of its resem- 
blance to Ecclesiastes . But as this explanation of the 
title is very vague, it is rightly rejected by Luther, 
and almost all modern critics. The word, like many 
others of Greek origin, appears to have been adopted 
in the African dialect (e. g. Tertull. De pudic. c. 22, p. 
435), and thus it may have been applied naturally in 
the Vet us Latina to a church reading-book; and when 
that translation was adopted by Jerome {Prof. in Libro 
Sal.ju.rta LXX. x. 404, ed. Migne), the local title be- 
came current throughout the West, where the book 
was most used. The right explanation of the word is 
given by Rutin us, who remarks that “ it does not des- 
ignate the author of the hook, hut the character of the 
writing,” as publicly used in the services of the Church 
{Comm, in Synib. § 38). The special application by 
Rutin us of the general name of the class {ecclesiastici 
as opposed to canonici) to the single hook may he ex- 
plained by its wide popularity. Athanasius, for in- 
stance, mentions the book {Ep. Fest. s. f.) as one of 
those “ framed by the fathers to he read by those who 
wish to be instructed (i KarrixuoQai ) in the word of god- 
liness.” 

IT. Design and Method. — The object of this hook is 
to propound the true nature of wisdom, and to set forth 
the religious and social duties which she teaches us to 
follow through all the varied stages and vicissitudes of 
this life, thus exhibiting the practical end of man’s 
existence by reviewing life in all its different hearings | 
and aspects. Wisdom is represented here, as in Prov- 
erbs, as the source of human happiness, and the same 
views of human life, founded on the belief of a recom- 
pense, pervade tlie instructions of this hook also, 
wherein, however, a more matured reflection is per- 


ceptible (De Wette’s Einleitung ). It is, in fact, the 
composition of a philosopher who had deeply studied 
the fortunes and manners of mankind, and did not 
hesitate to avail himself of the philosophy of older 
moralists : xii, 8-xiii, 23 ; xv, 11-20 ; xvi, 2G-xvii, 20 ; 
xix, G-17 ; xxiii, 10-27 ; xxvi, 1-18 ; xxx, 1-13 ; 
xxxvii, 27 ; xxxviii, 15, 24-xxxix, 11, etc. {Ib.). It 
abounds in grace, wisdom, and spirit, although some- 
times more particular in inculcating principles of po- 
liteness than those of virtue (Cellerier, Jntrod. a la 
Lecture desLiv. Saints). It is not ^infrequently mark- 
ed by considerable beauty and elegance of expression, 
occasionally rising to the sublimest heights of human 
eloquence {Christian Remembrancer , vol. ix). It has 
been observed of it by Addison (see Horne’s Introd. 
vol. iv) that “it would he regarded by our modern 
wits as one of the most shining tracts of morality that 
are extant if it appeared under the name of a Confu- 
cius, or of any celebrated Grecian philosopher.” 

In addition to the fact that no Palestinian produc- 
tion, whether inspired or uninspired, can be reduced to 
a logically developed treatise according to Aristotelian 
rules, there are difficulties in tracing the plan of this 
book, arising from the peculiar circumstances of the 
author, as well as from the work itself. Ben-Sira 
brings to the execution of his plan the varied expe- 
rience of a studious and practical life, and in his great 
anxiety not to omit any useful lesson which he has 
gathered, he passes on, after the manner of an Eastern 
logic, from the nature of heavenly wisdom to her godly 
teachings, from temptation in her varied forms to lilial 
duties; he discloses before the eyes of his readers the 
inward workings of the heart and mind, he depicts all 
passions and aspirations, all the virtues and vices, all 
the duties towards God and man, in proverbs and apo- 
thegms, in sayings which have been the property of 
the nation for ages, and in maxims and parables of his 
own creation, with a rapidity and suddenness of transi- 
tion which even an Eastern mind finds it at times dif- 
ficult to follow. Add to this that the original Hebrew 
is lost, that the Greek translation is very obscure, that 
it has been mutilated for dogmatic purposes, and that 
some sections are transposed beyond the hope of read- 
justment, and the difficulty of displaying satisfactorily 
the method or plan of this book will at once he appar- 
ent, and the differences of opinion respecting it will 
be no matter of surprise. The book (see Fritzsche's 
proleg. in his Commentar) is divisible into seven parts 
or sections : 1. Comprising chaps, i-xvi, 21, describes 
the nature of wisdom, gives encouragements to submit 
to it, as well as directions for conducting ourselves in 
harmony with its teachings ; 2. xvi, 22-xxiii, 17, shows 
God in the creation, the position man occupies with re- 
gard to his Maker, gives directions how he is to con- 
duct himself under different circumstances, and how 
to avoid sin ; 3. xxiv, 1-xxx, 24 ; xxxiii, 12-xxxvi, 
lG a ; xxx, 25-27, describes wisdom and the law, and 
the writer's position as to the former, gives proverbs, 
maxims, and admonitions about the conduct of men 
in a social point of view ; 4. xxx, 28-xxxiii, 11 ; xxxvi, 
16 b -22, describes the wise and just conduct of men, the 
Lord and his people; 5. xxxvi, 23-xxxix, 11, instruc- 
tions and admonitions about social matters; G. xxxix, 
12-xlii, 14, God’s creation, and the position man occu- 
pies with regard to it; 7. xlii, 11-1, 2G, the praise of 
the Lord, how he had glorified himself in the works of 
nature, and in the celebrated ancestors of the Jewish 
people. Thereupon follows an epilogue, ch. 1, 27-29, 
in which the author gives his name, and declares those 
happy who will ponder over the contents of this hook, 
and act according to it ; as well as an appendix, ch. li, 
1-30, praising the Lord for deliverance from danger, 
describing how the writer has successfully followed 
the paths of wisdom from his very j'outh, and calling 
upon the uneducated to get the precious treasures of 
wisdom. 

III. Its Unity. — The peculiar difficulties connected 


ECCLESIASTICUS 


43 


ECCLESIASTICUS 


tioth with the plan of the book and the present de- 
ranged condition of its text will have prepared the 
reader for the assertions made by some that there is 
no unity at ail in the composition of this book, and 
that it is, in fact, a compilation of divers national say- 
ings, from various sources, belonging to different ages 
(see Davidson, in Home's Introd. ii, 1013 sq.). En- 
couragement is sought for these assertions from the 
statement in the spurious prologue of this book, ov 
povov rd irspiov rwv wpo aurov cvvetCjv dvCpiuv 
cnrcHpOkypctTa ovvi/yaytv, ciWd KCti avrbg iCici rivet 
a 7 ra(p 6 sy^aTo, as well as from the remark of St. Jerome : 
“Quorum priorem \_ 7 ravdpET 0 v Jesu filiiSirach librum] 
Hebraicum reperi, non Ecclesiasticum ut apiul Latinos, 
sed Parabolas pnenotatum, cui juncti erant Ecclesias- 
tes et Canticum Canticorum, ut similitiulinem Salomo- 
nis non solum librorum nnmero, sed etiam materia- 
rum genere coiequaret” (Praf. in Libr . Solom.), which 
seems to imply that the book of Ben-Sira was intended 
to answer to all the three reputed works of Solomon. 
So also Luther. Eichhorn can see in it three different 
books : the first book consists of chaps, i-xxiii, com- 
prising desultory remarks upon life and morals, and 
is divisible into two sections, viz. (a) i-ix, and (6) x- 
xxiii ; the second book comprises xxiv-xlii, 14, begins 
with a vivid description of wisdom, whereupon follow 
remarks and maxims without any order; and the third 
book, comprising xlii, 15-1, 24, is the only portion of 
Sirach carefully worked out, and contains praise of 
God and the noble ancestors of the Hebrews ( Einlei - 
tung in d. Ap. p. 50, etc.). Ewald, again, assures us 
that Ben-Sira made two older works 011 Proverbs the 
basis of his book, so that his merit chiefly consists in 
arranging those works and supplementing them. The 
first of these two books originated in the fourth cen- 
tury before Christ, extends from ch. i to xvi, 21, and 
contains the most simple proverbs, written with great 
calmness. The second book originated in the third 
century before Christ, extends from xvi, 22, to xxxvi, 
22, and displays the excitement of passions as well as 
some penetrating observations, and has been greatly 
misplaced in its parts, which Ewald rearranges. The 
third book, which is the genuine work of Ben-Sira, ex- 
tends from xxxvi, 23, to li, 30, with the exception of 
the song of praise contained in xxxix, 12-35, which 
belongs to the author of the second work ( Gesckichte 
d. Y. Isr. iv, 300, etc.; Ja/irb. iii, 131, etc.). These 
must suffice as specimens of the opinions entertained 
by some respecting the unity of this book. Against 
this, however, is to be urged — 1. That the difference 
in form and contents of some of the constituent parts 
by no means precludes the unity of the whole, seeing 
that the writer brought to the illustration of his design 
the experience of a long life, spent both in study and 
travelling. 2. That this is evidently the work of the 
author’s life, and was written by him at different pe- 
riods. 3. That the same design and spirit pervade the 
whole, as shown in the foregoing section ; and, 4. That 
the abruptness of some portions of it is to be traced to 
the Eastern style of composition, and more especially 
to the present deranged state of the Greek translation. 

IV. Author and Date. — This is the only apocryphal 
book the author of which is known. The writer tells us 
himself that his name is Jesus ( 1 ijaovc, "Sl'liirP, 

i. e. Jeshua), the sen < f Sirach, and that he is of Jentsa- 
lem (1, 27). Here, therefore, we have the production of 
a Palestinian Jew. The conjectures which have been 
made to fill up this short notice are either unwarrant- 
ed (e. g. that he was a physician, from xxxviii, 1-15) 
or absolutely improbable. There is no evidence to 
show that he was of priestly descent; and the similar- 
ity of names is scarcely a plausible excuse for con- 
founding him -with the Hellenizing high-priest Jason 
(2 Macc. iv, 7-11 ; Georg. Sync. Chronogr . p. 27(>). In 
the Talmud, the name of Ben-Sira for which 

is a late error, Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth . p. 311) 


occurs in several places as the author of proverbial 
sayings which in part are parallel to sentences in Ec- 
clesiasticus, but nothing is said as to his date or per- 
son, and the tradition which ascribes the authorship of 
the book to Eliczer (B.C. 200) is without any adequate 
foundation (Jost, ib. ; yet see note 1). The Palestinian 
origin of the author is, however, substantiated by in- 
ternal evidence, e. g. xxiv, 10 sq. For the various 
speculations advanced about the personal character, 
acquirements, and position of the author, we must re- 
fer to the article Jesus, sox of Siracii. That the 
book should have been ascribed by the Latin Church 
to Solomon, notwithstanding this plain declaration of 
the book itself, the discreditable terms in v'hich Solo- 
mon is spoken of, the reference to Solomon’s success- 
ors, to prophets and other great men who lived before 
and after the Babylonish captivity, the mention of the 
twelve minor prophets (xlix, 10), the citation from the 
prophet Malachi (comp, xlviii, 10, with Mai. iv, G), and 
the description of the high-priest Simon (chap. 1), only 
shows what the fathers can do. 

The age of the book has been, and still is, a subject 
of great controversy. The life-like description of the 
high-priest Simon, contained in chap. 1, seems to indi- 
cate that the writer had seen this high functionary of- 
ficiate in the Temple ; but there were two high priests 
of the same name, viz. Simon, son of Onias, surnamed 
the Just , or the Pious , who lived B.C. cir. 370-300, 
and Simon II, son of Onias, w’ho lived in the reign of 
Ptolemy Philopator, B.C. 217-195 (3 Macc. i, 2). See 
Simox. Some interpreters, therefore, are of opinion 
that Simon 1 is described by Ben-Sira, whilst others 
think that Simon II is intended. The lives and acts 
of these two pontiffs, however, as w r ell as the esteem 
in which they v’ere respectively held by the people, 
as recorded in their national literature, must show' to 
w'hich of these two high-priests the description of Ben- 
Sira is applicable. 1. The encomiums show beyond 
doubt that one of Israel’s most renowned high-priests is 
described, whereas Simon II w r as so little distinguish- 
ed that Josephus cannot relate a single good thing 
about him. 2. Bon-Sira characterizes him as the da 
liverer of his people from destruction; whereas in the 
time of Simon II no deliverance of either the people 
or the Temple was necessary. 3. In the time of Simon 
II, Hellenism, the great enemy of Judaism, which was 
represented by the sons of Tobias, had made great 
progress; and if Ben-Sira had written about this time, 
we should have had some censures from this pious poet 
of these thoughtless and godless innovations, whereas 
there is no allusion to these throughout the whole of 
this book. This appears the more strange when it 
is borne in mind that Simon II himself sided with 
these faithless sons of Tobias, as Josephus distinct- 
ly declares (Ant. xii, 4, 11). 4. It is utterly impossi- 

ble that such a man as Simon II should be described 
in such extraordinary terms in the catalogue of na- 
tional benefactors, and that Simon I, the personifica- 
tion of goodness, liobilit}', and grandeur, whom the 
nation crow ned with the title the Just , the Pious , should 
be passed over with silence. 5. No Jew', on reading so 
sublime a description of the high-priest, w r ould ever 
think, with his national traditions before him, of ap- 
plying it to any one else but the Simon, unless he were 
distinctly told that it was intended for another Simon. 
These considerations, therefore, show' that Ben-Sira’s 
life-like description refers to Simon I. Now as Si- 
mon I died B.C. cir. 300, Ben-Sira must have written 
his work not earlier than 290-280, as chap. 1 implies 
that this high-priest was dead. (See also infra , sec. 
vi.) 

V. The original Language of the Booh.- — The trans- 
lator of this work into Greek most distinctly declares 
in his preface that it v^as written in Hebrew', and St. 
Jerome assures us that he had seen the Hebrew' origin- 
al (ride supra , sec. iii). That by the term 'E^pa'icri 
is meant Hebrew , and not Aramcean , is evident from 


ECCLESLASTICUS 


44 


ECCLESIASTIC!! S 


the numerous quotations made from this book both in 
the Talmud and the Midrasliim. Compare 


Ben-Sira. 

Talmud and Midrashnn. 

Chap. 

Hi, 20 

Chagiga, 13; Beroshitli Bab. 10. 

“ 

vi, 10 

Sanhed. 10,100; Yebaruoth, 03, b; Eri 

U 

vii, 34 

Derek Frets, 19, c. 4. 

44 

ix, 8 

Sanhed. 100, b; Yebamoth, 03. 

44 

ix, 12 (Svriac) 

Abotli, i, 5. 

U 

1 

Jer. Beracli. 29, a: Nazir, IS, a; Here* 
Bab. 78, b. 

u 

xi, 27 

Sunbed. 100. 

“ 

xiii, 1,5 

liaba Kama, 92, b. 

u 

xiii, 25 

Bereshilh Babba, 82. 

u 

xiii, 31 

Bereshith Uabba, 04, b. 

44 

xiv, 1 1 

Ernbin, 54, a. 

u 

xiv, 17 

l'.rubin, 71. 

44 

xv, 8 

Pesachim, GO ; Erubin, 55, a. 

“ 

xviii, 23 

Tanchuma Vayikra, 41, b. 

u 

xxv, 3, 4 

Pesachim, 113. 

u 

xxv, 13 

Sabbath, 11, fl. 

44 

xxvi, 1 

Sanhed. 100; Yebamoth, G3, b. 

41 

xxvi, 20 

N'ida, 70. 

tl 

xxvii, 1) 

Baba Kama, 92, b. 

44 

xx viii, 14. . . . 

Vayikra Bab. 153, a. 

44 

xxx. 21 

Sanhed. 100, b. 

It 

xxx, 25 

Yebamoth, 03, b. 

“ 

xxxviii, 1 . . . 

Sunbed. 41; Taanith, 9, a: Shemoth. 
100, b. 

tt 

xxxviii. 4, S. . 

Beresh. Bab. 8, a; Yalkut Job, 14S. 

44 

xxxviii, 10-23 

Moed Katon, 27. 

44 

xl, 28 

Betza. 32, b; Yalkut Job, 149. 


xiii, 9, 10.... 

Sanhedrin, 100, b. 


By some writers, however, it is thought that the Sen- 
tences of Ben-Sb'ach, cited in the Talmud ( Sanhed. 
Gem. xi, 42 ; Beresehith Uabba , viii, f. 10 ; Baba Kama , 
f. 02, c. 2), and published in Latin by Paul Fagius 
(1542), and in Hebrew, Chaldee, and Latin by Drusius 
(1507), though so similar to those in Ecclesiasticus, 
are, upon the whole, a different work (Eichhorn’s and 
Bertholdt's Introductions). 

Almost all of these quotations are in Hebrew , though 
the works in which they are found are in Aramaan , 
thus showing beyond doubt that the book of Ben-Sira 
was written in genuine Hebrew. Besides, some of 
the blunders in the Greek can only be accounted for 
from the fact that the original was Hebrew. Thus, 
for example, in xxiv, 25 we read, “ He maketh knowl- 
edge to eome forth as light, as Gihon in the days of 
vintage,” where the parallelism Tigov — ‘jin*5 (Gen. 
ii, IB), whereby the Xile was designated in later times, 
which the Sept, also understands by “nrpd 1 (Jer. ii, 
18), shows that mc 6m c in the first hemistich origina- 
ted from the translator's mistaking the Hebrew 
like a stream , for ‘YISC, like light. Comp, also xlix, 9, 
which is most unintelligible in the Greek through the 
translator’s mistaking the Hebrew EZTZ for DTTZ. 
Bishop Lowth, indeed, went so far as to assert that the : 
translator “seems to have numbered the words, and ‘ 
exactly to have preserved their order, so that, were it 
literally and accurately to be retranslated, 1 have very 
little doubt that, for the most part, the original diction 
would lie recovered.” The learned prelate has actual- 
ly retranslated chap, xxiv into Hebrew ( Ifebrezo Poet. 
Led. xxiv, Oxford ed. 1X21, p. 254). This retransla- 
tion is also printed by Fritzsehe, who has added some 
corrections of his own, and who also gives a transla- 
tion of chap. 1. 

VI . The Greek and other Translations of this Book . — 
The Greek translation incorporated in the Sept, was 
made bv the grandson of the author (6 TrainTOQ gov 
Tijirorr), who tells us that he came from Palestine into 
Egypt in his thirty-eighth year, “in the reign ofEuer- 
getes” Qv rift 6yc6<;j kcu rptaKoartg trti trri rov E usp- \ 
ytroc fiaoiXsMg). But there were two kings who have 
borne this name- — Euergetes I, son and successor of 
Ptolemy II, Philadelphus, B.C. 247-222, and Euerge- 
tes II, i. e. Ptolemy VI T, known by the nickname 
Physeon, the brother of Ptolemy VI, B.C. 145-116, 
and the question is, which ofjthese two is meant? 
Now, if Ben-Sira wrote B.C. cir. 290-280, when an old 
man, and if we take o TruTiTrog gov to mean great- , 


grandfather , a sense which it frequently has, and that 
the translator was born after the death of his illustri- 
ous ancestor, his arrival in Egypt in his thirty-eighth 
year would be B.C. cir. 230, i. e. in the reign of Eu- 
ergetes I. On the other hand, the manner in which 
the translator speaks of the Alexandrine version of 
the Old Testament, and the familiarity which he shows 
with its language (e. g. xliv, 16, ’Ei >m\ gererW}}, Gen. 
v, 24 ; comp. Linde, ap. Eichhorn, p. 41, 42), is scarce- 
ly consistent with a date so early as the middle of the 
third century. Winer (De 2 itr. Sirac. (date , Erlang. 
1832) maintains that Simon the Just is the person re- 
ferred to, but that it is not necessary to conclude that 
the author was his contemporary. He thinks that, al- 
though the grammatical construction rather requires 
bra ng £7ri tov EvepytTOv to refer to the age of the 
monarch’s reign, Euergetes the Second was the king 
in whose reign the translation was made, and that the 
canon could not have been yet closed under the reign 
of the first Euergetes, as implied in the preface — “the 
law, the prophets, and the other books.” As there 
appears to be no special reason for the translator’s 
reference to his own age, the date has been taken to 
allude to that of the reigning Ptolemy by many crit- 
ics since Eichhorn, e. g. by Bruch, Palfrey, Davidson, 
Ewald, Fritzsehe, etc. The “ thirty-eighth year of his 
reign,” although not applicable to the first Euergetes, 
may refer to the second, if his regency be included. 
According to this, which De Wette conceives the most 
probable hypothesis, the translator would have lived 
B.C. 130, and the author B.C. 180. But if, with most 
interpreters, the chronological datum in question re- 
fers to the translator’s own age, then the grandson of 
the author was already past middle-age when he eame 
to Egypt ; and if his visit took place early in the reign 
of Ptolemy Phvscon, it is quite possible that the book 
itself was written while the name and person of the 
last of “the men of the great synagogue” was still 
familiar to his countrymen. Even if the date of the 
book lie brought somewhat lover than the times of 
Simon the Just, the importance of the position which 
that functionary occupied in the history of the Jews 
would he a sutlicient explanation of the distinctness 
of his portraiture ; and the political and social troubles 
to which the book alludes (li, 6, 12 ; xxxvi, sq.) seem 
to point to the disorders which marked the transfer- 
ence of Jewish allegiance from Egypt to Syria rather 
than to the period of prosperous tranquillity which 
was enjoyed during the supremacy of the earlier Ptol- 
emies. On the whole, therefore, we may conclude 
that the book was probably written B.C. cir. 200, and 
translated B.C. cir. 140. 

The present state of this translation, however, is 
very deplorable; the text as well as the MSS. are 
greatly disfigured by numerous interpolations, omis- 
sions, and transpositions. The Old Latin version, which 
Jerome adopted in the Vulgate without correcting it, 
was made from this Greek translation, and, besides 
being barbarous in style, is also greatly mutilated, and 
in many instances cannot be harmonized with its orig- 
inal. Even in the first two chapters the following 
words occur which are found in no other part of the 
Vulgate : defunctio (i, 13), religiositas (i. 17, 18 , 20), com- 
part ior (i, 24), inhonorafio (i, 3s), abduct io (ii, 2; v, 1, 
10), receptibilis (ii, 5). The Syriac alone is made di- 
rect from the Hebrew, and contains a quotation made 
by Jose ben-Jochanan about 150 B.C. (comp. Aloth, i, 
5 with Ben-Sira ix, 12), which the secondary versions 
have not, because it was dropped from the Greek. 
Notwithstanding the ill treatment and the changes 
which this version has been subjected to, it is still one 
of the best auxiliaries for the restoration of the old 
text. The Arabic seems to have been made from the 
Syriac ; whilst the old English version of Coverdale, 
as usual, follows the Zurich Bible and the Vulgate, 
the Bishops’ Bible again copies Coverdale ; the Gene- 
va version, as is often the case, departs from the other 


ECCLESIASTICUS 


45 


ECCLESIASTICUS 


English version for the better. The present A. V. 
chiefly follows the Complutensian edition of the Greek 
and the Latin Vulgate. The arrangement, however, 
of chaps, xxx, 25-xxxvi, 17 in the Vatican and Com- 
plutensian editions is very different. The English ver- 
sion here follows the latter, which is supported by the 
Latin and Syriac versions against the authority of the 
Uncial MSS. The extent of the variation may be seen 
in the following table : 


Cow 2)1 . , Lat., Syr A. V. 
xxx, 25 


Vat., MSS. “A, B, C.” 

xxxiii, 13, \ajU7rpa Kcipbia, K. t. 

X 


xxxi, xxxii 

xxxiii, 16, 17, t^p^vria-a 

xxxiii, 10 sq. tS)? KaXu/xw/uei'or. 

xxxiv, xxxv 

xxxvi, 1-11, ’I clkm/3 .... 

XXXVi, 12 sq. Kai KareuXtipovo- 


xxxiv, xxxv. 
xxxvi, 1-16. 

xxx, 25 sq. 

xxxi, xxxii. 
xxxiii, 1-13. 
xxxvi, 17 sq. 


The most important interpolations are : i, 5, 7 ; 186, 
21 ; iii, 25 ; iv, 236; vii, 2G6; x, 21 ; xii, Gc xiii, 256; 
xvi, 15, 1G, 22c; xvii, 5, 9, 1G, 17a, 18, 21, 23c, 266; 
xviii, 26, 3, 27c, 33c; xix, 56, Ga, 136, 14a, 18, 19, 21, 
25c; xx, 3, 146, 176, 32; xxii, 9, 10, 23c; xxiii, 3c, 4c, 
56, 28 ; xxiv, 18, 21 ; xxv, 12, 2Gc ; xxvi, 19-27 ; 1, 296. 
All these passages, which occur in the A. V. and the 
Compl. texts, are wanting in the best MSS. The edi- 
tion of the Syro-Hexaplaric MS. at Milan, which is at 
present reported to be in preparation (since 1858), will 
probably contribute much to the establishment of a 
sounder text. 

The name of the Greek translator is unknown. He 
is commonly supposed to have borne the same name 
as his grandfather, but this tradition rests only on 
conjecture or misunderstanding (Jerome, Sgnops. S. 
Script, printed as a Prologue in the Compl. ed. and in 
the A. V.). 

VII. Canonicity. — Though this book has been quoted 
in the Jewish Church as early as B.C. 150 and 100, by 
Jose ben-Jochanan (Aboth, i, 5) and Simon ben-She- 
tach (Nazir, v, 3), and references to it are dispersed 
through the Talmud and Midrasliim (ride sup. sec. v), 
yet these latter declare most distinctly that it is not 
canonical. Thus Yadaim , c. ii, says the book of Ben- 
Sira , and all the books written from its time and after - 
wards , are not canonical. We also learn from this re- 
mark that Ben-Sira is the oldest of all apocryphal books, 
thus confirming the date assigned to it in section iv. 
Again, the declaration made by R. Akiba, that he who 
studies uncanonical books will have no portion in the 
world to come (Mishna, Sanhed. x, 1), is explained by 
the Jer. Talmud to mean the books of Ben-Sira and Ben- 
Laanah (comp, the Midrash on Coheleth xii, 12). 1 1 

was never included by the Jews among their Scrip- 
tures; for though it is quoted in the Talmud, and at 
times like the Kethubim, yet the study of it was for- 
bidden, and it was classed among ‘ £ the outer books ” 
D^is'ri D“HSp), that is, probably, those which were 
not admitted into the Canon (Dukes, Rabb. Blumenlese , 
p. 24 sq.). 

Allusions to this book have been supposed to be not 
unfrequently discernible in the New Testament (com- 
pirc, especially, Ecclus. xxxiii, 13; Horn, ix, 21 ; xi, 
19; Luke xii, 19, 20; v, 11; James i, 19, etc.; xxiv, 
17,18; Matt, xi, 28, 29; John iv, 13, 14; vi, 35, etc.). 
The earliest clear coincidence with the contents of the 
book occurs in the epistle of Barnabas (c. xix = Ec- 
clus. iv, 31 ; compare Const. Apost. vii, 11), but in this 
case the parallelism consists in the thought and not in 
the words, and there is no mark of quotation. There 
is no sign of the use of the book in Justin Martyr, 
which is the more remarkable, as it offers several 
thoughts congenial to his style. The first distinct 
quotations occur in Clement of Alexandria ; but from 
the end of the second century the book was much used 
and cited with respect, and in the same terms as the 
canonical Scriptures; and its authorship was often as- 
signed to Solomon, from the similarity which it pre- 


sented to his writings (August. De Cura pro Mort. 18). 
Clement speaks of it continually as Scripture (Paid, i, 
8, § G2 ; ii, 2, § 34 ; 5, § 4G ; 8, § G9, etc.), as the work 
of Solomon (Strom, ii, 5, § 24), and as the voice of the 
great Master (7rat<5«y<uyo£, Pad. ii, 10, § 98). Origen 
cites passages with the same formula as the canonical 
books ( ytypairrai , in Johann, xxxii, §14; in Matt. 
xvi, § 8), as Scripture (Comm, in Matt. § 44 ; in Ep. ad 
Rom. ix, § 17, etc.), and as the utterance of “ the divine 
word ” (c. Cels, viii, 50). The other -writers of the Al- 
exandrine school follow the same practice. Dionysius 
calls its words 11 divine oracles ” (Frag, de Nat. iii, p. 
1258, ed. Migne), and Peter Martyr quotes it as the 
work of “ the Preacher ” (F mg. i, § 5, p. 515, ed. Migne). 
The passage quoted from Tertullian (De exhort, cast. 
2, “ Sicut scriptum est: Ecce posui ante te bonum et 
malum; gustati enim de arbore agnitionis,” etc.; com- 
pare Ecclns. xv, 17, Vulg.) is not absolutely conclu- 
sive; but Cyprian constantly brings forward passages 
from the book as Scrij)ture (De bono pat. 17 ; De mor - 
talitate , 9, § 13), and as the work of Solomon (Ep. lxv, 
2). The testimony of Augustine sums up briefly the 
result which follows from these isolated authorities. 
He quotes the book constantly himself as the work of 
a prophet (Serm. xxxix, 1), the word of God (Serin. 
lxxxvii, 11), “ Scripture” (Lib. de Nat. 33), and that 
even in controversy (c. Jul. Pelag. v, 3G) ; but he ex- 
pressly notices that it was not in the Hebrew Canon 
(De Cura pro Mort. 18), “though the Church, espe- 
ciail} r of the West, had received it into authority” (De 
Cirit. xvii, 20; compare Speculum , iii, 1127, ed. Paris). 
Jerome, in like manner (Prcpf. in Sap. Sir. § 7), con- 
trasts the book with “the canonical Scriptures” as 
“doubtful,” while they are “sure;” and in another 
place (Prol. Galeat.') he says that it “is not in the ('an- 
on,” and again (Prol. in Libr. Sol.), that it should be 
read “for the instruction of the people (plebis), not to 
support the authority of ecclesiastical doctrines.” The 
book is cited by Hippolytus (Opp. p. 192) and by Euse- 
bius (Opp. iv, 23, etc.), but is not quoted by Irenseus; 
and it is not contained in the Canon of Melito, Origen, 
Cyril, Laodicca, Hilary, or Rufinas. See Canon. 

But while the book is destitute of the highest ca- 
nonical authority, it is a most important monument of 
the religious state of the Jews at the period of its com- 
position. As an expression of Palestinian theology 
it stands alone ; for there is no sufficient, reason for 
assuming Alexandrine interpolations, or direct Alex- 
andrine influence (Gt’rorer, Philo, ii, 18 sq.). The 
translator may, perhaps, have given an Alexandrine 
coloring to the doctrine, but its great outlines are un- 
changed (comp. Diiline, Relig. Philos, ii, 129 sq.). The 
conception of God as Creator, Preserver, and Governor 
is strictly conformable to the old Mosaic type; but, at 
the same time, his mercy is extended to all mankind 
(xviii, 11-13). Little stress is laid upon the spirit- 
world, either good (xlviii, 21 ; xlv, 2 ; xxxix, 28?) or 
evil (xxi, 27 ? j, and the doctrine of a resurrection fades 
away (xiv, 1G ; xvii, 27, 28; xliv, 14, 15. Yet comp, 
xlviii, 11). In addition to the general hope of restora- 
tion (xxxvi, 1, etc.), one trait only of a Messianic faith 
is preserved, in which the writer contemplates the fu- 
ture work of Elias (xlviii, 10). The ethical precepts 
are addressed to the middle class (Eichhorn, Einl. p. 44 
sq.). The praise of agriculture (vii, 15) and medi- 
cine (xxxviii, 1 sq.), and the constant exhortations to 
cheerfulness, seem to speak of a time when men’s 
thoughts were turned inwards with feelings of despond- 
ency and perhaps (Dukes, u. s. p. 27 sq.) of fatalism. 
At least the book marks the growth of that anxious 
legalism which was conspicuous in the sayings of the 
later doctors. Life is already imprisoned in rules; re- 
ligion is degenerating into ritualism : knowledge has 
taken refuge in schools (compare Ewald,GTs<?6. d. Volkes 
Isr. iv, 298 sq.). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

VI II. Commentaries , etc. — Special exegetical works 
which have appeared on the whole of this book are the 


ECCLESIOLOGY 


46 


ECK 


following, of which the chief are designated by an as- 
terisk prefixed: Ilabanus Maurus, In Ecelesiasticum 
(in his Opp.); Anon. Besckreib . u. Uebers. (in Lors- 
baeh’s Archiv , ii, 11 sq.) ; Alexander, De libro Ecclus. 
(in his Hist. Eccles. iii, GOO); Iiengel, Muthmassliche 
Quelle , etc. (in Eichhorn’s Bibliotkcl ', vii, 852-G4) ; Dc 
Sacv, V Ecclesiastiqne (in his Sainte Bible , xvi) ; Bos- 
suet, Liber Ecclus. (in his (Euvres, xxii, 1 sq.) ; Couz, 
Bcmerkungen (in Henke’s Jins, ii, 177-243); *Came- 
rarins, Sententue J. S. (Lips. 1570, 8vo); Supientia J. 
S. (Lips. 1570, 8vo) ; Striegel, in his Libri Sapiential 
(Lpz. 1575, 12mo), p. 277 sq. ; Drusius, Ecclus. inter- 
pretatus (Franecker, 1506, 4to) ; Hoschel, Sap. Sirachi 
(Augsb. 1G04, 4to ; also in the Crit. Sacn\ v) ; *5 La- 
})ide, Commentarias (Antwerp, 1634, 1687, fol.) ; Stif- 
fer, Ilomilice (Lips. 1676, 4to) ; Calmet, Comment aire 
(Paris, 1707, fob; in Latin, ed. Manse, Wirceb. 1702; 
viii, 351 sq.) ; *Arnald, Crit. Commentary (Lond. 1748, 
fob, and often since); Koken, Das. B.'Sirach (Hildes- 
heim, 1756, 12mo) ; Teleus, Disquisitiones (Hafn. 1770, 
8vo) ; Bauer, Erliiut. m. Anmerk. (Bamberg, 1781, 
1703, 8vo); Onymus, Weisheit J. S. (Wurtzbnrg, 1788, 
8vo) ; Sonntag, De Jes. Siraeide (Riga, 1702, 4to) ; 
*Linde, Sententice Jcs. Sir. (Danz. 1705, 4to) ; also 
Glanbens n. Sittenlehre Jes. Sir . (Lpz. 1782, 1795, 8vo) ; 
Zange, Denkspruche Jes. Sir. (Amst. 1707, 8vo) ; Fed- 
dersen, Jes. Sir. fibers. (Amst. 1707, 1827, Svo) ; Ben- 
Seeb, rrirp r^zrt.etc. (8vo, Breslau, 1798 ; Vienna, 
1807, 1818, 1828) ; *Bretschneider, Lib. Jesu Sine (Ra- 
tisbon, 1806, Svo) ; Gaab, Diss. exegetiea (Tubing. 1800, 
4to) ; Luther, Das Bvch J. S. (Lpz. 1815, 1816, 12mo) ; 
Anon. Jes. S. bearbeit. (Lpz. 1826, 8vo) ; Howard, Ec- 
clus. tr.from tlieVulg. (Loud. 1827, Svo) ; Anon. Sirach, 
tin Sphgd (Kreuznach, 1829, Svo) ; Van Gilse, Com- 
mentatio (Gron. 1832, 4to) ; Grimm, Commentar (Lpz. 
1837, Svo); Gutmann, Weisheit s-Spr itch J. S. (Altona, 
1841, Svo) ; Dulk, (Warsaw, 1843, 8vo) ; 

Stern, Weisheit sspriiche J. S. (Wien, 1844, Svo) ; Hill, 
Translation (in the Monthly JRe/igions Mag. Bost. 1852- 
53); *Fritzsche, II Vis//. J. S. crkldrt u. fibers, (as part 
of the Kurtzg. Exeg. Ihmdb. z. d. Apokr. Lpz. I860, 
Svo) ; Cassel, Uebers. (Berk 1866, Svo). See also Ril- 
biger, Ethice Apoc. V. T. (Vratislaw, 1838); Bruch, 
Weisheit s-Lehre der Ilebrder (Strasb. 1851) ; Geiger, in 
the Zeitschr. d. Morgenl. Gesellsch. 185s, p. 536 sq. ; 
Horowitz, Das Buck Sirach (Bresh 1865). Compare 
AroCllYPIIA. 

Ecclesiology, “a word of recent use, is the name 
which has been given in the British Islands to the 
study of Church architecture and decoration. Be- 
sides discriminating the various styles of ecclesiastical 
architecture, ecclesiology takes account of the ground- 
plan and dimensions of a church ; of its orientation, or 
the deviation of its line from the true east ; of its apse, 
or circular or polygonal east end; of its altar or com- 
munion-table, whether fixed or movable, stone or wood ; 
of its reredos, dossel, or altar-screen ; of its piscina, or 
basin and drain for pouring away the v’ater in which 
the chalice was rinsed, or the priest washed his hands; 
of the sedilia, or seats for the priest, deacon, and sub- 
deacon, during the celebration of the Eucharist; of the 
aumbry e, or locker, for the preservation of the com- 
munion vessels and elements; of the ‘Easter sepul- 
chre,’ or recess for the reception of the host from Good 
Friday till Foster day ; of the altar-candlesticks ; of 
the altar-steps ; of the altar-rails ; of the credence ta- 
ble, or shelf oil which to place the communion ele- 
ments before they w ere put upon the altar ; of the 
! misereres,’ or .elbowed stalls; of seats ’within and 
without the chancel walls; of the height of the chan- 
cel as compared with the nave ; of the chancel arch ; 
of the rood-screen, rood-staircase, rood-door, and rood- 
loft ; of the piers or columns ; of the triforium or blind- 
story; of the clerestory; of the windows; of tlie par- 
vise-turret, or outside turret leading to the par vise ; of 
the roof or groining; of the eagle-desks and lecturns; 


of the pulpit; of the hour-glass stand, by which the 
preacher was vrarned not to weary the patience of the 
flock ; of the reading pew ; of the benches, pews, and 
gallciies; of the aisles; of the shrine, fertour, or reli- 
quary ; of the benatura, or holy-water stoup ; of the 
corbels, w ith special reference to the head-dress figured 
on them ; of the pavement ; of the belfry ; of the bap- 
tismal font, with its accessories, the baptistery, the 
steps, the kneeling-stone, the chrismatory, the cover, 
ami the desk; of the tower, with its lantern, parapet, 
pinnacles, louvres, windows, buttresses, and bells ; of 
the porcli and doors, with their niches and seats ; of 
the parvise, or priest’s chamber, above the porch ; of 
the mouldings; of the pinnacle crosses; of the gur- 
goyles, or rain-spouts ; of the church-yard or village 
cross ; of the church-yard yew ; of the lych-gate, or 
corpse-gate, where the corpse was met by the priest ; 
of the cr} T pt ; of the confessional ; of the hagioscope, 
or opening in the chancel arch through which the ele- 
vation of the host might he seen ; of the lvchnoscope, 
or low window in the side wall of the chancel, the use 
of which is uncertain; of the chest for alms; of the 
table of the ten commandments ; of the church plate ; 
of the faldstool, or litany stool, of the embroidered 
work ; of the images of saints ; of the church well; of 
the sepulchral monuments and brasses, with their in- 
scriptions ; of the chapels or sacristies ; of the vestry ; 
of the dedication crosses. Ecclesiology has a litera- 
ture of its own, including a monthly journal, called 
The Ecclesiologist. There are societies for promoting 
its study, one of which, ‘ The Ecclesiological, late 
Cambridge Camden Society,’ has published .4 Hand- 
book of English Ecclesiology (Lond. 1847).” — Chambers, 
Encyclopedia , s. v. 

Ecdippa. See Acnzm. 

Echard, Jacques, a learned Dominican, was 
born at Rouen September 22, 1644, and died at Paris 
March 15, 1724. He published S. Thome Summit suo 
antori vindicata , sire de V. F. Vincentii Bellovacensis 
seriptis dissertatio , in qua quid de speculo mortdi seniien- 
dum apeiitur (1708, 8vo). He has contributed to illus- 
trate his order by the “ Library of Dominican Writers” 
( Scriptores ordinis Pnedicatorum recens. notisque illus- 
trati, inchoavit J. Quit if absolv'd J. Echard [Par. 1719- 
21, 2 vols. fol.]), which is held in high esteem by all 
bibliographers. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. Gener. xv, 623. 

Echard, Lawrence, A.M., archdeacon of Stowe, 
was born in Suffolk about 1671, and was educated at 
Christ’s College, Cambridge. He was presented to 
the livings of Wei ton and El kin ton, Lincolnshire, and 
was made archdeacon of Stowe and prebendary of 
Lincoln in 1712. He died in 1730. In his History of 
England, written on High-Church principles, he relates 
facts with perspicuity ; and the work is rendered en- 
tertaining by short characters of the most eminent lit- 
erary men in the different periods of history. At pres- 
ent his writings are little valued. His chief works 
are, (1) A general Ecclesiastical History, from the Nil* 
tirity of our Saviour to the first Establishment of Chris \ 
futility by human Laics under Constantine (Lond. 1722, 
2 vols. 8vo, 6th edit.): — (2) The Homan History, from 
the building of the City to the removal of the imperial 
Seat by Constantine the Great (Lond. 1707, 4 vols. 8vo) : 
— (3) The History of England to the end of the I\< v (lotion 
(Lond. 1707-18, 3 vols. fob). — Allihone, Dictionary of 
Authors, i, 540; Kippis, Biographia Britarmica , v, 552. 

Eck or Eckius, Johannes ( Johann Mayr von 
Eck'), one of the most capable and violent of Luther’s 
opponents, was horn in Suabia, Nov. 13, 1486, the son 
of ii peasant. He was educated at Heidelberg and 
Tiibingen, and in 1516 was made professor and vice- 
chancellor at Ingolstadt. His intense ambition for 
literary fame stimulated him to unwearied activity and 
industry. In 1532 he was made vice-chancellor of the 
University of Ingolstadt. In 1514 he published Cen- 
turies vi de Prcedestinaiione ; and lectured and wrote 


ECK 


47 


ECK 


on all sorts of subjects from 1514 to 1518. Ranke de- 
scribes him as follows : “ Eck was one of the most em- 
inent scholars oi his time, a reputation which he had 
spared no pains to acquire. He had visited the most 
celebrated professors iu various universities: the Tho- 
mist Siistern at Cologne, the Scotists Sumenhard and 
Scriptoris at Tubingen ; he had attended the law lec- 
tures of Zasius in Freiburg, those on Greek of Beuch- 
lin, on Latin of Bebel, on cosmography of Beuscli. In 
his twentieth year he began to write and to lecture at 
Ingolstadt upon Occam and Biel’s canon law, on Aris- 
totle’s dialectics and physics, the most difficult doc- 
trines of dogmatic theology, and the subtleties of nom- 
inalistic morality; he then proceeded to the study of 
the mystics, whose most curious works had just fallen 
into his hands : he set himself, as he says, to establish 
the connection between their doctrines and the Orphi- 
coplatonic philosoph} 7 , the sources of which are to be 
sought in Egypt and Arabia, and to discuss the whole 
in live parts ( Eckii Kpistola de ratione studiorum suo- 
rum , in Strobel, Miscellanea , iii, 07). He was one of 
those learned men who held that the great questions 
which had occupied men’s minds were essentially set- 
tled ; who worked exclusively with the analytical fac- 
ulty and the memory ; who were always on the watch 
to appropriate to themselves a new subject with which 
to excite attention, to get advancement, and to secure 
a life of ease and enjoyment. His strongest taste was 
for disputation, in which he had made a brilliant figure 
in all the universities we have mentioned, as well as 
in Heidelberg, Mainz, and Basle : at Freiburg he had 
earl}'” presided over a class (the Bursa zum Pfanen) 
where the chief business was practice in disputation ; 
he then took long journeys — for example, to Vienna 
and Bologna — expressly to dispute there. It is most 
amusing to see in his letters the satisfaction with 
which he speaks of his Italian journey: how he was 
encouraged to undertake it by a papal nuncio ; how, 
before his departure, he was visited by the young 
markgrave of Brandenburg ; the very honorable re- 
ception he experienced on his way, in Italy as well as 
in Germany, from both spiritual and temporal lords, 
who invited him to their tables; how, when certain 
young men had ventured to contradict him at one of 
these dinners, he had confuted them with the utmost 
case, and left them tilled with astonishment and ad- 
miration ; and lastly, how, in spite of manifold opposi- 
tion, he had at last brought the most learned of the 
learned in Bologna to subscribe to his maxims” (Ried- 
erer, Nachrichten , iii, 47). 

With such antecedents, Eck was prepared to take 
up arms against Luther (as, indeed, he was ready to 
take up arms against any man). They had been good 
friends, and Luther sent him his Theses. See Lutiier. 
Against these, in 1518, Eck wrote animadversions un- 
der the title Obelisci (given in Loscher, Vollst. Ref. Aet. 
ii, 333 sq.), which were freely circulated, though the 
writer declared they were not meant to be published. 
Eck was at that time inquisitor for Bavaria, and what 
he said and wrote had great weight in fixing upon a 
man the reputation of heresy. Carlstadt (q. v.), at 
Luther's request, replied in 406 thefees, in. which lie 
assailed both the learning and the orthodoxy of Eck, 
and very satirically. The controversy ended in a 
public Disputation , to which Carlstadt challenged Eck. 
According to a letter of Luther, written to Eck Nov. 
lo, 1518, Luther seems to have cherished the hope of a 
friendly settlement of the difficulty ; but Eck was only 
pulled up by this tenderness of Luther, and in Febru- 
ary, 1519, he printed an outline for the expected dispu- 
tation, in which he endeavored again to impeach the 
University of Wittenberg, but more especially Carl- 
stadt and Luther, particularly the latter, as holding 
heretical doctrines on penitence and on the papal pow- 
er. Malice only could have inspired Eck here, as Lu- 
ther had at that very time promised to Miltitz to dis- 
continue the dispute. Luther was, of course, relieved 


from his promise, and he so declared to the elector 
Frederick on the 13th of March. lie wrote at once a 
reply to Eck, so unanswerable in all its points, and so 
full of severity, that Eck could no longer remain in 
doubt as to the fate which awaited him at Leipzig. 
Eck’s aim was undoubtedly not so much to gain the 
mastery over Carlstadt as over Luther. He published 
(February, 1519) 13 theses, which he professed himself 
willing to defend against Luther. They referred chief- 
ly to the doctrine of penitence and absolution, and the 
thirteenth especially sought to provoke an answer from 
Luther which should make him liable to the Inquisi- 
tion for heresy. It read: “ Romanam Ecclesiam non 
fuisse superiorem alas Ecclesiis ante tempora Sylvestid , 
negamus. Sed eum , qni sedem beatissimi Petri liabnit 
et jidem, successorem Petri et 1 ’ icarium Christi generalem 
semper agnovimusP Eck here really gained his object. 
Luther accepted the challenge, and answered it by the 
following: “ Romanam Ecclesiam esse omnibus aliissupe- 
riorem, probatur ex frigidissimis Rom. Pontifcum decre - 
fis, infra quadringentos annos natis. Contra quee sunt 
historic approbate mille et centum annorum , textus serip- 
turce divirne et decretum Xiceni Concilii omnium sacra- 
tissimiP Eck, eager to bring Luther into a still more 
inextricable position as heretic, advanced, March 14, 
1519, the following: “ Excusatio adeersus crimination 
nes Fr. M. Lutheri, ordinis Eremiiarumf with the ac- 
cusation that Luther was a coward, and that he only 
endeavored to advance Carlstadt in order that he might 
himself safely retreat. To this Luther replied in an- 
other “ Excusatio Fr. Martini Luthen adeersus crimi- 
nationes Dr. Jo. Eckii,” and with the assertion u Ich 
fiirchte mich icedcr vor dem Pabste und des Pabstes Xa- 
men noch vor Pabstchen und Puppen ” (I am neither 
afraid of the pope or the pope’s name, nor of popelings 
or puppets”). But Eck succeeded at least in fright- 
ening some true friends of Luther, and it was no easy 
task to quiet Spalatinus, who had grown very doubt- 
ful as to the filial result of the dispute. But Luther 
was already decided not to spare the Roman see. The 
Roman Church he calls (He Wette, Luther s Brief e , i, 
260) “Babylon;” the power of the Homan pontiff bo 
counts among worldly powers (ib. i, 261). Meanwhile 
many causes delayed disputation. At last the person- 
al interference of duke George, who asked of the bish- 
op “not to defend the lazy priests, but to oblige them 
to meet the battle manfully, unless the pope should 
interfere,” removed all obstacles. 

The session opened at Leipsic June 27, 1519, and 
from that date to July 3 Eck and Carlstadt wore the 
disputants. Eck admitted that the Scriptures were 
the ultimate rule of doctrine, and maintained a syner- 
gistic doctrine as to grace and free-will. Carlstadt 
supported the doctrine of the impotcncy of the will, 
and that good works are from grace alone. The con- 
troversy led to no result. “On Monday, the 4tli of 
July, at seven in the morning, Luther arose; the an- 
tagonist whom Eck most ardently desired to meet, and 
whose rising fame he hoped to crush hv a brilliant vic- 
tory. lie stood in the prime of manhood, and in the 
fulness of his strength: he was in his thirty-sixth 
year; his voice was melodious and clear; he was per- 
fectly versed in the Bible, and its aptest sentences pre- 
sented themselves unhidden to his mind ; above all, 
he inspired an irresistible conviction that lie sought 
the truth. The battle immediately commenced on the 
question of the authority of the papacy, which, at once 
intelligible and important, riveted universal attention. 
It was immediately obvious that Luther could not 
maintain bis assertion that the pope’s primacy dated 
only from the last four centuries: he soon found him- 
self forced from- this position by ancient documents; 
and the rather, that no criticism had as yet shaken the 
authenticity of the false decretals. But his attack on 
the doctrine that the primacy of the pope (whom he 
still persisted in regarding as the oecumenical bishop) 
was founded on Scripture and by divine right, was far 


ECK 


48 


ECK 


more formidable. Christ’s words, ‘Thou art Peter; 
feed my sheep, 5 which have always been cited in this 
controversy, were brought forward. In the exposi- 
tion by Nicolas Lvranus also, of which Luther made 
the most use, there occurs this explanation, differing 
from that of the curia, of the passage in Matthew, 
chap, xvi : 1 Quia tu es Petrus , i. e. confessor veraz petree 
qui est Christ us f actus ; et super hanc petram, quam con- 
fessus es, i. e. super Christum , adlfcabo ecclesium meamd 
Luther labored to snpport the already well-known ex- 
planation of them, at variance with that of the curia, 
by other passages which record similar commissions 
given to the apostles. Eek quoted passages from the 
fathers in support of his opinions, to which Luther op- 
posed others from the same source. As soon as they 
got into these more recondite regions, Luther’s supe- 
riority became incontestable. One of his main argu- 
ments was that the Greeks had never acknowledged 
the pope, and vet had not been pronounced heretics ; 
the Greek Church had stood, was standing, and would 
stand without the pope ; it belonged to Christ as much 
as the 1 toman. Eck did not hesitate at once to declare 
that the Christian and the Roman Church were one ; 
that the churches of Greece and Asia had fallen away, 
not only from the pope, but from the Christian faith — 
they were unquestionably heretics: in the whole cir- 
cuit of the Turkish empire, for instance, there was not 
one soul that could be saved, with the exception of the 
few who adhered to the pope of Rome. ‘ How?’ said 
Luther; ‘ would yon pronounce damnation on the whole 
Greek Church, which has produced the most eminent 
fathers, and so many thousand saints, of whom not 
one had even heard of a Roman primate? 'Would 
Gregory of Nazianzen, would the great Basil, not be 
saved ? or would the pope and his satellites drive them 
out of heaven ?’ These expressions prove how greatly 
the omnipotence and exclusive validity of the forms 
ot' the Latin Church, and the identity with Christian- 
ity which she claimed, were shaken by the fact that, 
beyond her pale, the ancient Greek Church, which she 
had herself acknowledged, stood in all the venerable 
authority of her great teachers. It was nou r Eck’s 
turn to he hard pressed: he repeated that there had 
been many heretics in the Greek Church, and that he 
alluded to them, not to the fathers — a miserable eva- 
sion, which did not in the least touch the assertion of 
his adversary. Eck felt this, and hastened back to 
the domain of the Latin Church, lie particularly in- 
sisted that Luther s opinion — that the primacy of Rome 
was of human institution, and not of divine right — 
was an error of the poor brethren of Lyons, of AVick- 
liffe and Huss ; but had been condemned by the popes, 
and especially by the general councils wherein dwelt 
the spirit of God, and recently at that of Constance. 
This new fact was as indisputable as the former. Eck 
was not satisfied with Luther's declaration that he had 
nothing to do with the Bohemians, nay, that he con- 
demned their schism ; and that he would not be an- 
swered out of the collectanea of inquisitors, but out of 
the Scriptures. The question had now arrived at its 
most critical and important moment. Did Luther ac- 
knowledge the direct influence of the divine Spirit 
over the Latin Church, and the binding force of the 
decrees of her councils, or did he not? Did he in- 
wardly adhere to her, or did lie not? AVe must recol- 
lect that we are here not far from the frontier of Bo- 
hemia ; in a land which, in consequence of the anathe- 
ma pronounced in Constance, had experienced all the 
horrors of a long and desolating war, and had placed 
its glory in the resistance it had offered to the Huss- 
ites: at a university founded in opposition to the spir- 
it and doctrine of John Huss: in the face of princes, 
lords, and commoners, whose fathers had fallen in this 
struggle; it was said that delegates from the Bohemi- 
ans, who had anticipated the turn which this conflict 
must take, were also present. , Luther saw the danger 
of his position. Should he really reject the prevailing 


notion of the exclusive power of the Roman Church 
to secure salvation? oppose a council by which John 
Huss had been condemned to the flames, and perhaps 
draw down a like fate upon himself? Or should he 
deny that higher and more comprehensive idea of a 
Christian church which he had conceived, and in 
which his whole soul lived and moved? Luther did 
not waver for a moment. He had the boldness to af- 
firm that, among the articles on which the Council of 
Constance grounded its condemnation of John lluss, 
some were fundamentally Christian and evangelical. 
The assertion was received with universal astonish- 
ment. Duke George, who was present, put his hands 
to his sides, and, shaking his head, uttered aloud his 
wonted curse, ‘A plague upon it!’ Eck now gathered 
fresh courage. It was hardly possible, he said, that 
Luther could censure a council, since his grace the 
elector had expressly forbidden any attack upon coun- 
cils. Luther reminded him that the Council of Con- 
stance had not condemned all the articles of IIuss as 
heretical, and specified some which were likewise to be 
found in St. Augustine. Eck replied that all were re- 
jected; the sense in which these particular articles 
were understood was to be deemed heretical ; for a 
council could not err. Luther answered that no coun- 
cil could create a new article of faith ; how, then, could 
it be maintained that no council whatever was sub- 
ject to error ? ‘ Reverend father, 5 replied Eck, ‘ if you 

believe that a council regularly convoked can err, 
yon are to me as a heathen and a publican’ ( Disputci - 
tio Excellcntissimorum Theologontni Johminis Eccii et J). 
Martini Lutheri A vgustiniani quae Lipsiee capta fuit iv 
die Julii ad 1519. Opera Lutheri , Jena, i, 231). Such 
were the results of this disputation. It was continued 
for a time, and opinions more or less conflicting on 
purgatory, indulgences, and penance were uttered. 
Eck renewed the interrupted contest with Carlstadt; 
the reports were sent, after the solemn conclusion, to 
both universities; but all these measures could lead 
to nothing further. The main result of the meeting 
was, that Luther no longer acknowledged the author- 
ity of the Roman Church in matters of faith. At first 
he had only attacked the instructions given to the 
preachers of indulgences, and the rules of the later 
schoolmen, but had expressly retained the decretals 
of the popes ; then he had rejected these, hilt with ap- 
peal to the decision of a council : he now emancipated 
himself from this last remaining human authority also ; 
he recognised none but that of the Scriptures” (Ranke, 
History of Reformation , Austin’s transi., bk. ii, ch. iii). 

After the disputation, in which Eck’s pride of intel- 
lect had been grievously wounded, he wrote (July 23) 
a letter to the elector of Saxony exhorting him to dis- 
courage the pernicious doctrines of his professor, and 
to cause his hooks to be burned. Frederick replied 
with some delay and great moderation, and Carlstadt 
with bitterness. A bitter controversy followed, in 
which Melancthon took part, and Eck got the worst 
of it. In February, 1520, Eck also completed a trea- 
tise on the primacy, in which he promises triumphant- 
ly and clearly to confute Luther's assertion that “it 
is not of divine right.” “Observe, reader,” says he, 
“ami thou shall see that I keep my word.” Nor is 
his work by any means devoid of learning and tal- 
ent. After obtaining a condemnation of Luther from 
the universities of Louvain and Cologne, Eek went to 
Rome (1520) to present his book ( De Primatu ) to the 
pope, and to stir up feeling against Luther. II is ex- 
hortations animated the enemies of Luther, and they 
at length prevailed upon the pope to summon a con- 
gregation on the subject, which passed sentence of 
condemnation upon Luther. Leo X indiscreetly ap- 
pointed Eck as his nuncio for the promulgation of his 
* bull in Germany. Elated by vanity, Eck set out with 
puerile exultation -to inflict, as he thought, a fatal 
blow on his devoted adversary. In September lio 
[ caused the bull to be fixed up in public places in Meis- 


ECIvART 


49 


ECLECTICS 


sen, Merseburg, and Brandenburg. “ Everywhere he 
contended with force and energy, and on more than 
one occasion with success. Germany was his usual 
arena, where the brunt of controversy was almost in- 
variably sustained by him. But in Switzerland his 
voice was likewise heard ; and there, indeed, the papal 
interests were never upheld by any advocate of talent 
or distinction except himself and Faber, lie was con- 
fronted in a long series of combats, during a space of 
twenty years, with all the chieftains of the Reforma- 
tion ; and, though lie was defending what we are wont 
to consider the feebler cause, he never defended it fee- 
bly, or was overthrown with shame.” He died Feb- 
ruary, 15-13. His works against Luther embrace five 
volumes (Opera contra Luiherum , Augsburg, 1530-35). 
Besides this, and the work Da Primutu already men- 
tioned, Eck published Enchiridion Cont rover siarum (last 
edit. Cologne, 1GOO); Apologia contra Bucernm (Ingol- 
stadt, 1543), and others. — Hook, Eccles. Biog. iv, 532; 
Ranke, Iiist. of Reformation ; D’Aubigne, Hist, of Ref- 
ormation, vol. i ; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. bk. iv, c. xvi, sec. 
i, ch. ii, § 9, and ch. iii, § 13 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
iii, G2G sq. 

Eckart or Eckhardt (called Master Eckart ), a 
Dominican monk, one of the most profound thinkers 
of the Middle Ages. Of the time or place of his birth 
we have no record. He is first mentioned as a teacher 
at the College of St. James, at Paris. Having gone to 
Rome, where he received the degree of D.D., lie was 
appointed provincial of Saxony, the appointment being 
confirmed by a chapter of his order held at Toulouse 
in 1304. In 1307 he was appointed vicar-general of 
Bohemia, with power to reform the Dominican con- 
vents. We afterwards find him again in Strasburg, 
preaching in the nunneries, and making acquaintances 
among the “Brethren of the Free Spirit.” Having 
preached in Cologne, where archbishop Heinrich had 
already, in 1322, condemned the Beghards, Eckart, 
w r ho inclined to them, brought upon himself the dis- 
pleasure of the Church. Cited before the Inquisition 
in January, 1327, Eckart disclaimed heretical doctrines, 
and professed his willingness to recant any such that 
could be found in his teachings. A total recantation, 
however, being demanded of him, he refused, and in 
consequence was condemned as a heretic. He ap- 
pealed to the pope, who, out of 28 points acknowledg- 
ed by Eckart, condemned 17 as heretical and the re- 
mainder as suspicious. Notwithstanding this con- 
demnation, Ilenry Suso’s autobiography, published in 
1360, calls him “ the holy Master Eckart,” and praises 
his “ sweet doctrine.” Copies of his sermons were 
made and preserved in numerous monasteries. Eck- 
art has been claimed both b}'- speculative philosophers 
and orthodox theologians; both by Protestants and 
Romanists. He is perhaps properly to be considered 
as the father of the modern mystical pantheism. lie 
upheld the doctrines of the Brethren of the Free 
Spirit, but yet was free from their practical aberra- 
tions, as also from their opposition to the rites of the 
Church and to moral law. His writings have latterly 
been collected by Pfeiffer (Deutsche My s tiler des 14 ,PH 
Jahrh. 1857, 2d vol.); they consist of i 10 sermons, 18 
treatises, 70 theses, and the Liber positionum. Before 
this, some of his sermons and short treatises, appended 
to Taulcr’s collection, Basle, 1521, were the only ones 
of his writings which were generally accessible. 

See Schmid, in Theol. Stud. u. Kritik. (1839) ; Me- 
nioires de V Acad, des Sciences mor. et polit. (Schmid’s 
Etud. snr le mysticisme alien i. an xiv me siecle , Paris, 
18-17); Martenscn, Monte r Eckart (Hamburg, 1842); 
Schmid, in Herzog’s Real-Encyklapadie, iii, 638. All 
the writers here cited charge Eckart with pantheistic 
views. But Prcger, in Zeitschrift f d. hist. Theol. 18G4, 
p. 1G3 sq., and I860, p. 453 sq., publishes a new tract 
of Eckart's, not found in Pfeiffer’s collection, and vin- 
dicates Eckart from the charge of pantheism. So also 
does Bach, in Meister Eckhart , d. Vater d. deutschen 
III. — D 


Speculation (Wien, 1864), noticed in Jahrh. f. dcutsche 
Theologie , 1867, p. 3G3. 

Eckermann, Jacob Christoph Rudolph, was 
born September G, 1754, at Wedendorf, in Mecklen- 
burg-Schwerin. In 1782 he was appointed professor 
of theology at the University of Kiel, and Danish 
Church councillor. He died May 6, 183G. lie is the 
author of Erkldrung aller dunklen Stellen des N. T. 
(Kiel, 1806-1808, 3 vols. 8vo) : — Joel metrisch ubersetzt 
mil einer neuen Erkldrung (Liib. and Lcipz. 178G, 8vo) : 
— Compend. theol. theor . bill, histor. (Altona, 1792, 8vo); 
a German edition of the same work, Jlandb.fur das 
systemat. Studium der Glaubenslehre, in which lie de- 
clares that the doctrines of Jesus are only a popular 
guide to a real adoration of the deity, and that what- 
ever else the New Test, may contain is to be consid- 
ered true only from an historical point of view (Alto- 
na, 1801-2, 4 vols. 8vo) : — Erinnerung an den unver - 
gdngl. u. unschdtzh. grossen Worth der Reformat. Lu- 
thers (Altona, 1817, 8vo), besides a number of other 
works, which have been collected in 6 vols. 8vo, under 
the title of Tlieologische Beitrdge (Altona, 1790-99), and 
in two additional vols., Vermischte Schriften (ibid. 1799, 
1800). — Winer, Tlieologische Literatur; Kitto, Cyclopic- 
dia , i, 725; Griissc, Allgem. Liter drgeschichte , vii, 872. 

Eclectics, (1.) a sect of ancient philosophers, who 
professed to select (tKXsyftr) from all 'systems of phi- 
losophy what they deemed to be true. The Echciics 
were chiefly Nco-Platonists (q.v.), and the philosophers 
chiefly selected from were Pythagoras, Plato, and Aris- 
totle. “This union of the Aristotelian and Platonic 
philosophies was attempted first by Potamo of Alexan- 
dria, whose principles were taken lip and maintained 
by Ammonius Saccas. It may be doubted, however, 
if the title of ecleciics can be properly given to Potamo 
or Ammonius, the former of whom was in fact merely 
a Neo-Platonist, and the latter rather jumbled togeth- 
er the different systems of Greek philosophy (with the 
exception of that of Epicurus) than selected the con- 
sistent parts of all of them. The most eminent of the 
followers of Ammonius were Plotinus, Porphyry, Jam- 
bliclms, Proelus, and the ancient Eclecticism became 
at last little more than an attempt to reconcile Platon- 
ism with Christianity” (Penny Cyclop, ix, 2G5). See 
Ammonius. 

Clemens Alexandrinus (Strom, i, 228) said: “By 
philosophy I mean neither the Stoic, nor the Platonic, 
nor the Epicurean, nor the Aristotelian, but whatever 
things have been properly said by each of these sects, 
inculcating justice and devout knowledge — this whole 
selection I call philosophy.'" “ The sense in which this 
term is used by Clemens” (of Alexandria), says Mr. 
Maurice (Mor. and Metaphys. Phil, ii, 53), “is obvious 
enough. He did not care for Plato, Aristotle, Pythag- 
oras, as such ; far less did he care for the opinions and 
conflicts of the schools which bore their names ; lie 
found in each hints of precious truths of which he de- 
sired to avail himself; he would gather the flowers 
without asking in what garden they grew, the prickles 
lie would leave for those who had a fancy for them. 
Eclecticism , in this sense, seemed only like another 
name for catholic wisdom. A man, conscious that ev- 
erything in nature and art was given for his learning, 
had a right to suck honey wherever it was to be found ; 
he would find sweetness in it if it was hanging wild on 
trees and shrubs; he could admire the clabprate archi- 
tecture of the cells in which it was stored. The Au- 
thor of all good to man had scattered the gifts, had 
imparted the skill; to receive them thankfully was an 
act of homage to him. But once lose the feeling of 
devotion and gratitude , which belonged so remarkably 
to Clemens — once let it be fancied that the philosopher 
was not a mere receiver of treasures which had been 
provided for him, but an ingenious chemist and com- 
pounder of various naturally unsociable ingredients, 
and the eclectical doctrine would lead to more self-con- 


ECLIPSE 


50 


ECLIPSE 


ceit, would be more unreal and heartless than any one I 
ot‘ the sectarian elements out of which it was fashion- 
ed. It would want the belief and conviction which 
dwell, with whatever unsuitable companions, even in 
the narrowest theory. Many of the most vital char- 
acteristics of the original dogmas would be effaced un- 
der pretence of taking off their rough edges and litting 
them into each other. In general the superficialities 
and formality of each creed would he preserved in the 
new system ; its original and essential characteristics 
sacrificed*’ (Fleming, Vocabulary of Philosophy, s. v.). 

(•2.) “Modern eclecticism is conceived b} 7 some to 
have originated with Bacon and Descartes, but Hegel 
may be more properly considered its founder. In his 
Phrosophy of History and other works he endeavors, 
among other things, to point out the true and false ten- 
dencies of philosophic speculation in tho various ages 
of the world; but it is to the lucid and brilliant elo- 
quence of Victor Cousin (q. v.) that modern eclecti- 
cism owes its popularity. This system, if it can be so 
called, may best be defined as an effort to expound, in 
a critical and sympathetic spirit, the previous systems 
of philosophy. Its aim is to apprehend the specula- 
tive thinking of past ages in its historical development, 
and it is the opinion of some that such a method is the 
only one possible in our day in the region of meta- 
physics” (Chambers, Encyclopaedia , s. v.). — Murdoch’s 
Mosheim, Ch . Hist. bk. i, c. ii, pt. ii, ch. i ; Nea ruler, Ch. 
1 list, i, 658 ; Mosheim, Commentaries , ch. i, § 30. See 
Ammonius; Platonism. 

Eclipse. An eclipse of the sun is caused by the 
intervention of the moon when new, or in conjunction 
with the sun, intercepting his light from the earth, 
either totally or partially. An eclipse of the moon is 
caused bv the intervention of the earth, intercepting 
tlie sun’s light from the moon when full, or in opposi- 
tion to the sun, either totally or partially. An eclipse 
of either luminary can only take place when they are 
within their proper limits, or distances, from the nodes 
or intersections of both orbits. A total eclipse of the 
moon may occasion a privation of her light for an hour 
and a half, during her total immersion in the shadow; 
whereas a total eclipse of the sun can never last in 
any particular place above four minutes, when the 
moon is nearest to the earth, and her shadow thickest. 
See Sun ; Moon. 

No historical notice of an eclipse occurs in t lie Bible, 
but there are passages in the prophets which contain 
manifest allusion to this phenomenon. (Comp. Lucan, 
i, 540 sq. ; Virgil, Georg. i, 466; Curt, iv, 3: Evitng. 
Nicod. c. 1 1.) They describe it in the following terms : 
“The sun goes down at noon,” “tho earth is darkened 
in the clear day” (Amos viii, 0), “ the day shall be 
dark” (Mic. iii, 6), “the light shall not be clear nor 
dark” (Zech. xiv, 6), “the sun shall he dark” (Joel ii, 
10, 31 ; iii, 15). Some of these notices have been 
thought to refer to eclipses that occurred about the 
time of the respective compositions: tints t he date of 
Amos nearly coincides with a total eclipse which oc- 
curred Feb. 9, Ii.C. 781, and was visible at Jerusalem 
shortly after noon (Hitzig, Comm, in Proph.); that of 
Micah with the eclipse of June 5, B.C. 71G, referred to 
by Pionys. Ilal. ii, 56, to which same period the latter 
part of the hook of Zcchariah has been assigned by 
some. A passing notice in Jor. xv, 9 nearly coincides 
in date with the eclipse of Sept. 30, B.C. G!0, so well 
known from Herodotus’s account (i, 74, 103), The 
Hebrews seem not to have philosophized much on 
eclipses, which they considered as sensible marks of 
God's anger (see Joel ii, 10, 31; iii, 15; Job ix, 7). 
Ezekiel (xxxii, 7) and Job (xxxvi, 32) speak more 
particularly, that God covers the sun with clouds when 
he deprives the earth of its light by eclipses. These 
passages, however, are highly figurative, and the lan- 
guage they present may simply be borrowed from the 
lurid look of the heavenly orl>s as seen thrQUgh a hazy 
atmosphere. Yet, when we read that “the sun shall 


he turned into darkness, and the moon into blood,” we 
can hardly avoid discerning an acquaintance with the 
appearance of those luminaries while under eclipse. 
The interruption of the sun’s light causes him to ap- 
pear black; and the moon, during a total eclipse, ex- 
hibits a copper color, or what Scripture intends by a 
blood color. See Astronomy. The awe which is 
naturally inspired by an eclipse in the minds of those 
who are unacquainted with the cause of it rendered it 
a token of impending judgment in the prophetical 
books. See Earthquake. 

The plague of darkness in Egypt has been ascribed 
by various neologistic commentators to non-miracnlous 
agency, blit no sufficient account of its intense degree, 
long duration, and limited area, as proceeding from 
any physical cause, has been given. See Plagues 
of Egypt. 

Josephus mentions (Ant. xvii, 6, 4 s. f.) an eclipse 
of the moon as occurring on the night when Herod 
deprived Matthias of the priesthood, and burnt alive 
the seditious Matthias and his accomplices. This is 
of great importance in the chronology of Herod's reign, 
as it immediately preceded his own death. It has 
been calculated as happening March 13, B.C. 4. See 
IIeroo (the Great). 

The darkness i—i i xaaav Tt)v yijv of Matt. Nxvii, 
45, attending the crucifixion has been similarly attrib- 
uted to an eclipse. See Crucifixion (of Christ). 
Phlegon of Tralles, indeed, mentions an eclipse of in- 
tense darkness, and, beginning at noon, combined, be 
says, in Bithynia, with an earthquake, which, in the 
uncertain state of our chronology (see Clinton’s Fasti 
I Romani, Olymp.202), more or less nearly synchronizes 
j wdtli the event. Nor was the account without re- 
ception in the early Church. See the testimonies to 
that effect collected by Whist on ( Testimony of Phlegon 
| vindicated, London, 1732). Origen, however, ad loe. 
(Latin commentary on Matthew), denies the possibility 
of such a cause, arguing that by the fixed Paschal 
reckoning the moon must have been about full, and 
denying that Luke xxiii, 45, by the words icncoriafhi 6 
i i'jXioc, means to allege that fact as the cause. The 
j genuineness of this commentary has been impeached, 
nor is its tenor consistent with Origen adv . Cels. p. 80 ; 
but the argument, unless on such an assumption as 
i that mentioned below', seems decisive, and has ever 
I since been adhered to. lie limits 7 racrav T)}v yijv to 
Judiea. Dean Alford (ad loc.), though w ithout stating 
I his reason, prefers the wider interpretation of all the 
! earth’s surface on which it would naturally have been 
day. That Phlegon ’s darkness, perceived so intense 
in Tralles and Bithynia, was felt in Juda?a, is hiclilv 
probable; and the evangelist’s testimony to similar 
phenomena of a coincident darkness and earthquake, 
taken in connection with the near agreement of time, 

I gives a probability to the supposition that the former 
speaks of the same circumstances as the latter. Wiese- 
ler (Chron. Sgnop. p. 388), however, and 1 )e Wette (Com- 
j mc-nt. on Matt.) consider the year of Phlegon ’s eclipse 
an impossible one for the crucifixion, and reject that 
explanation of the darkness. The argument from the 
; duration (three hours) is also of great force, for an 
eclipse seldom lasts in great intensity more than six 
minutes. The darkness in tins instance, moreover, 

I cannot with reason be attributed to an eclipse, as the 
moon was at the full at the time of the Passover (q. 
v.). O 11 the other hand, Seyffarth ( 1 Chroming . Sacr. 

p. 58, 9) maintains that the Jewish calendar, owing to 
their following the sun, had become so far out that the 
moon might possibly have been at new, and thus, ad- 
mitting the year as a possible epoch, revives the argu- 
ment for the eclipse as the cause. He, however, views 
this rather as a natural basis than as a full account of 
the darkness, which in its degree at Jerusalem was 
| still preternatural' (ib. p. 138). The pamphlet of Wliis- 
ton above quoted, and two bv Dr. Sykes, Dissertation 
I on the Eclipse mentioned by Phlegon, and Defence of the 


ECONOMY 


51 


EDELMANN 


same (London, 1733 and 1734), may be consulted as re- 
gards the statement of Phlcgon. Treatises on the 
phenomenon in question have been written in Latin 
by Buier (Kegiom. 1718), Engestrom (London, 1730), 
Fleischer (Viteb. 1692), Frick (Lips. 169*2), Lautli (Ar- 
gent. 1743), Pasch (Viteb. 1683), Posner (.Jena, 1661), 
Schmid (Jena, 1683), Soinmel (London, 1774), Topfer 
(Jen. 1678), Wiedeburg (ilelmst. 1687), Zeibich (Viteb. 
1741), and in German by Grausbeck (Tubing. 1835). 
See Darkness. 

Economy, “a term which properly means the ar- 
rangement of a household (o tKovopia), blit is also fre- 
quently employed by ecclesiastical writers for the 
practical measures adopted in order to give effect to a 
divine dispensation. The Jewish economy included 
all the details of spiritual and secular government, 
but the Christian economy, belonging to a ‘kingdom 
not of this world,’ has no direct reference to political 
arrangements” (Eden). See Dispensation. 

Ecthesis, a proclamation or formula of faith, in 
the form of an edict, written by Sergius, patriarch of 
Constantinople, published A.D. 639 by the emperor 
Heraclius, to put an end to the troubles occasioned by 
the Eutvchian heresy. It prohibited all controversies 
on the question, Whether in Christ there were one or 
two operations? though in the same edict the doctrine 
of one will was plainly inculcated. A considerable 
number of the Eastern bishops declared their assent to 
this law, which was also submissively received by 
Pyrrhus, the new patriarch of Constantinople. In the 
West the case was quite different. The Homan pon- 
tiff, John IV, assembled a council at Home, A.I). 629, 
in which the ecthesis was rejected, and the Monothe- 
lites were condemned (Mosheim’s Eccles. Hist, N. Y. 
ed. i, 453). A copy of it is given in Harduin, Concilia , 
iii, 791. See also Gieseler, Church History , i, § 126; 
Hefele, Conciliengeschichte , iii, 154 sq. See Eutycii- 
ians. 

Ecuador (the Spanish term for Equator ), a re- 
public in South America. In lat. it extends from 1° 
40 7 N. to 5° 50' S., while in W. long, it stretches from 
69° to 81° 20'. It measures, therefore, from north to 
south fully 500 miles, and from east to west nearly 
850, presenting an area of about 300,000 square miles. 
It is bounded by the United States of Colombia, Bra- 
zil, Peru, and the Pacific. The population in 1857 
(according to Vilavicencio) was 1,108,042, composed 
as follows: Whites (Creoles), 100,000; descendants of 
whites and Indians, 501,200; civilized Indians, 462, 400; 
negroes, 7840 ; descendants of negroes and whites or 
negroes and Indians, 36,000 ; uncivilized Indians, 
200,000. Ecuador, until the beginning of the present 
century, belonged to the Spanish vice royalty of New 
Granada. After the establishment of the indepen- 
dence of the Spanish colonies, Ecuador formed part, 
until 1830, of the federal republic of Colombia. Since 
1830 it has been an independent republic. The chief 
cities are Quito, the capital, and Guayaquil, the empo- 
rium of foreign trade. The government appears to 
have been constituted on the model of the United 
States of North America, having a president and vice- 
president, with a Senate and a blouse of Representa- 
tives. All the inhabitants belong to the Homan Cath- 
olic Church, which contains the following dioceses: 1. 
The archbishopric of Quito, established as an episcopal 
see in 1545, erected into an archbishopric in 1*61 ; 2. 
the bishopric of Guayaquil, established in 1838; 3. the 
bishopric of Nueva Cueinja. The public exercise of no 
other religion is allowed by the Constitution of the 
state. There were, in 1855, 277 parochial and 106 vice- 
parochial churches, 534 secular priests, 262 monks in 
36 and 202 nuns in 11 convents. The University of 
Quito, established in 1586 by the Jesuits, has 4 col- 
leges and several seminaries. There were 11 high 
schools, called colleges or seminaries, and 290 primarv 
schools, of which 30 were for girls. Nearly all the 


scholars were the children of the whites and mulat- 
toes; the Indian population grows up almost without 
education. — Allgemeine Jleul-Encycl. iv, 1018; Vilavi- 
cencio, Geographia tie la Iiepublicu del Ecuador (N. Y. 
1858). (A. J. S.) 

Ed, i. e. “witness” (for Heb. id. 12), supplied (ap- 
parently on the authority of a few MSS. and also of 
the Syr. and the Arab, versions) in the A. V. as the 
name of the altar erected by the three tribes east of 
Jordan in commemoration of their adhesion to the oth- 
ers (Josh, xxii, 34). The commonly received Heb. 
text is literally as follows : “And the sons of Hcuben 
and the sous of Gad called the altar [512*52^ 

Sept. kTTix)vuj.ia(Tav trai thrav, Vulg. vocaverunt] ; for a 
witness is this [X"t1 12 ^3, Sept, on papTvpwv i< rn, 
Vulg. testimonium^ ” etc., or as it may be rendered 
(X“tp being sometimes used absolutely thus), “gave a 
name to the altar, [saying],” etc. The gloss is un- 
necessary (see Maurer, Comment, in loc.), for the latter 
clause furnishes both the name and the explanation 
(Kcil, Comment, in loc.), i. e. “the}' named the altar (as 
follows), that ! This is a witness ,’ ” etc. See Oreb. 

E'dar (Heb. E'der, 112, flock, as often rendered), 
the name of a tower (21! i*2), beyond (Sl!s2»T2) which 
Jacob first halted between Bethlehem and Hebron 
(Gen. xxxv, 21, Sept. r« fop, Vat. omits, Vulg. Eder’). 
In Mic. iv, 8 (Sept., Vulg., and A.V. translate 7 roqt- 
viov, grex, “flock”) it is put for the neighboring vil- 
lage Bethlehem itself, and hence tropically for the 
royal line of David as sprung thence. It perhaps de- 
rived its uame from the fact of having been erected to 
guard [see Migdol-] flocks, or else from some indi- 
vidual of the name of Eder (q. v.). Jerome (who 
calls it tunas Ader) says it lay 1000 paces from Bethle- 
hem ( Onomast . s. v. Bethlehem), and intimates that it 
contained a prophetic anticipation (comp. Targum of 
Pseudo-Jon. in loc.) of the birth of the Messiah on the 
same spot (Luke ii, 7, 8). (See Albert, De fund Eder, 
Lips. 1689.) See Bethlehem. 

Edayoth. See Talmud. 

Eddy, John Reynolds, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, son of Kev, Augustus Eddy, was born in Xe- 
nia, Ohio, Oct. 10, 1829, obtained a liberal English ed- 
ucation, and made some proficiency in the classics. 
He commenced the study of law, but determined to 
devote himself to the ministry, and was admitted on 
trial in the North-west Indiana Conference in 1856. 
After tilling various appointments acceptably, he ac- 
cepted in 1862 the chaplaincy of the 72d Indiana Regi- 
ment. He immediately joined his regiment at Mur- 
freesborough, Tenn., and commenced his labors among 
the soldiers. Sunday, June 21, he preached from Prov. 
xvi, 32; Wednesday, June 24, during a fight between 
colonel Wilder’s cavalry brigade and a rebel force he 
was instantly killed by a shell. — Min. of "Conferences, 
1863. 

Edelmann, Joiiann Christian, an infidel Ger- 
man writer, was born at Weissenfels in 1698, apd stud- 
ied theology at Jena. From his youth he evinced an 
unsteadiness of mind, which afterwards led him, after 
oscillating between the different Christian denomina- 
tions, to forsake them all and become an opponent of 
all orthodoxy. He rejected the Christian doctrine, and 
considered reason as a part of the essence of God, in 
no way different from him. For some years he ab- 
stained from all animal food, in order, as he expressed 
it, not to eat a part of divinity, lie had previously 
taken part in the translation of the Bible, published at 
Berleburg (q. v.). His principal works are his XJn- 
schullige Wahrkeiten , in which he attempts to prove, 
that no religion is of any importance : — Moses mit auf- 
gedechtem Angesicht (1740, 8vo) : — Christ nnd Belial 
(1741, Svo): — die GottUchkeit. d.Vernunft (1742, 8vo). 
He finally went to Berlin, where Friedrich II tolerated 


EDEN 


EDEN 


his presence on the plea that he had to put up with 
many other fools. Edelmann died in Berlin Feb. 15, . 
17G7. A selection of his works appeared at Berne in 
1847 (/I uswahl mis E.'s Schri fieri). 

“What Edelmann wished was nothing new; af- ' 
ter the manner of all adherents of Illuminism, he 
wished to reduce all positive religions to natural re- | 
ligion. The positive heathenish religions stand, to 
him, on a level with Judaism and Christianity. He is | 
more just towards heathenism than towards Judaism, 
and more just towards Judaism than towards Chris- 
tianity. Everything positive in religion is, as such, 
superstition. Christ was a mere man, whose chief 
merit consists in the struggle against superstition. 
What he taught, and what he was anxious for, no one, 
however, may attempt to learn from the New Testa- 
ment writings, inasmuch as these were forged as late 
as the time of Constantine. All which the Church 
teaches of his divinity, of his merits, of the gracious 
influence of the Holy Spirit, is absurd. There is no 
rule of truth but reason, and it manifests its truths di- 
rectly by a peculiar sense. Whatever this sense says 
is true. It is this sense which perceives the world. 
The reality of everything which exists is God. In 
the proper sense there can, therefore, not exist any 
atheist, because every one who admits the reality of 
the world admits also the reality of God. God is not 
a person, least of all are there three persons in God. 
If God be the substance in all the phenomena, then it 
follows of itself that God cannot be thought of without 
the world, and hence that the world has no more had 
an origin than it will have an end. One may call the 
world the body of God, the shadow of God, the son of 
God. The spirit of God is in all that exists. It is 
ridiculous to ascribe inspiration to special persons 
only; every one ought to be a Christ, a prophet, an 
inspired man. The human spirit, being a breath of 
God, does not perish ; our spirit, separated from its 
body by death, enters into a connection with some oth- 
er body. Thus Edelmann taught a kind of metempsy- 
chosis. What he taught had been thoroughly and in- 
geniously said in France and England ; but from a 
German theologian, and that with such eloquent coarse- 
ness, with such a mastery in expatiating in blasphemy, 
such things were unheard of. But as yet the faith of 
the Church was a power in Germany !” (Kahnis, Ger- 
man Protestantism, bk. i, chap, ii, § 2). An autobiog- 
raphy of Edelmann was published by Klose (Berlin, 
lSl'J). See Pratje, Jlistor. Kaehrichten (ITnmh. 1755, 
Svo) ; Elster, Erinnerangcn an Edelmann (Clausthal, 
183 ( J) ; Hurst, Ilistorg of Rationalism, ch. v. 

E'den (Ileb. id.), the name of three places anil of 
one or two men. 

1. “The garden of Eden” (’n^, (Wight, and so Sept. 
rpi'0i),Vulg. voluptas) is the most ancient and venera- 
ble name in geography, the name of the first district 
of the earth’s surface of which human beings could 
have any knowledge. 

I. The Xame. — The word is found in the Arabic as 
well as in the Hebrew language. It is explained by 
Firnzabadi, in his celebrated Arabic lexicon (Kamiis), 
as signifying delight, tenderness, loveliness (see Morren, 
in Edinh, Biblical Cabinet , xi, 2, 4s, 40). Major Wil- 
ford and professor Wilson find its elements in the 
Sanscrit. The Greek ijeovt) is next to identical with 
it in both sound and sense. It occurs in three places 
(Isa. xxxvii, 12; Ezek. xxvii, 23; Amos i, 5) as the 
name of some eminently pleasant districts, but not the 
Eden of this article. Of them we have no certain 
knowledge, except that the latter instance points to 
the neighborhood of Damascus. In these cases it is 
pointed, in the Hebrew text, with both syllables short 
(’,!"); but when it is applied to the primitive seat of 
man, the first syllable is long. The passages in which 
it occurs in the latter sense are, in addition to Gen. ii, 
iii, iv, 1G, the few following, of which wc transcribe the 


chief, because they cast light upon the primeval term: 
“ He will make her wilderness like Eden, and her des- 
ert like the garden of Jehovah.” “Thou hast been in 
Eden, the garden of God.” “All the trees of Eden, 
that were in the garden of God, envied him.” “This 
land which was desolate is become like the garden of 
Eden” (Isa. Ii, 3; Ezek. xxviii, 13; xxxi, fl, 1G, 18; 
xxxvi, 35; Joel ii, 3). All this evidence goes to show 
that Eden was a tract of country, and that in the most 
eligible part of it was the Paradise, the garden of all 
delights, in which the Creator was pleased to place his 
new anil pre-eminent creature, with the inferior be- 
ings for his sustenance and solace. See Garden - . 

The old translators appear to have halted between 
a mystical and literal interpretation. The word 'IV 
is rendered by the Sept, as a proper name in three pas- 
sages only, Gen. ii, 8, 10 ; iv, 1G, where it is represent- 
ed by ’Eoip. In all others, with the exception of Isa. 
Ii, 3, it is translated rpvipij. In the Vulgate it never 
occurs as a proper name, but is rendered “voluptas,” 
i “ locus voluptatis ,” or “ delicue.” The Targum of On- 
I kelos gives it uniformly and in the Peshito S} T r- 
iac it is the same, with a slight variation in two pas- 
sages. See Paradise. 

II. Biblical Description. — The following is a simple 
translation of the Mosaic account of the situation of 
the Adamic Paradise (Gen. ii, 8-17). See Genesis. 

Now Jehovah God hail planted a garden in Eden eastward, 
and he placed there the man whom he formed : for Jehovah 
God had caused to spring from the ground every tree pleas- 
ant for sight or good for food ; also the tree of life in the midst 
of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. 
Now a river issued from Eden to water the garden, and thence 
it was parted, and became four head -[streams] : the name of 
the first is PPhon: this [is the one] that surrounds all the 
land of the Ghavilah, where [is] the [metal] gold (the gold too 
of that land [is] good); there [also is] the [substance called] 
bedblach, and a stone [failed] the sholumi) : and the name of 
the second river [i:-] Giehdn; this [is the one] that surrounds 
all the land of Gush: and the name of the third river [P] 
GhuMekei; this [is the one] that flows ea;-t of Aslishur: and 
| the name of the fourth river, that [P] Perath. 

Thus Jehovah God took the man, and settled him in the 
garden of Eden, to till it, and to keep it. Then Jehovah God 
enjoined upon the man, saying, i4 i)f every tree of the garden 
j thou mayest freely eat exc. pt of the tree of the knowledge of 
good and evil — thou shalt not eat of it; for in the day of thy 
eating of it, thou shalt surely die.” 

The garden of Paradise is here said to be to the east, 
i. e. in the eastern part of the tract of Eden (see Gese- 
nius, Ileb. Lex. s. v.). The river which flowed through 
Eden watered the garden, and thence branched off 
into four distinct streams. The first problem to be 
solved, then, is this: To find a river which, at some 
stage of its course, is divided into four streams, two of 
which are the Tigris and Euphrates. The identity of 
these rivers with the Hiddekel and Perath has never 
been disputed, and no hypothesis which omits them is 
worthy of consideration. Setting aside minor differ- 
ences of detail, the theories which have been framed 
with regard to the explanation of the above description 
of the terrestrial paradise naturally divide themselves 
into two classes. The first class includes all those 
which place the main river of the garden of Eden be- 
low the junction of the Euphrates anil Tigris, and in- 
terpret the names Pison and Gihon of certain portions 
of these rivers; the second, those which seek for it in 
the high table-land of Armenia, the fruitful parent of 
many noble streams. Those theories have been sup- 
ported by most learned men of all nations, of all ages, 
and representing every shade of theological belief; but 
there is scarcely one which is not based in some degree 
upon a forced interpretation of the words of the narra- 
tive. Those who contend that the united stream of 
the Euphrates and Tigris is the “river” which “goetli 
forth from Ellen to water the garden,” have commit- 
ted a fatal error in neglecting the true meaning of 
XI*" 1 , which is only used of the course of a river from 
its source downwards (comp. Ezek. xlvii, 1). Follow- 
ing the guidance which this word supplies, the de- 


EDEN 


53 


EDEN 


scription in ver. 10 must be explained in this manner : 
the river takes its rise in Eden, flows into the garden, 
and from thence is divided into four branches, the sej)- 
aration taking place either in the garden or after leav- 
ing it. If this be the case, the Tigris and Euphrates 
before junction cannot, in this position of the garden, 
be two of the four brandies in question. But, though 
they have avoided this error, the theorists of the second 
class have generally been driven into another but lit- 
tle less destructive. Looking for the true site of Eden 
in the highlands of Armenia, near the sources of the 
Tigris and Euphrates, and applying the names Bison 
and Gihou to some one or other of the rivers which 
spring from the same region, they have been compelled 
to modify the meaning of 1H3, the “river,” and to 
give to a sense which is scarcely supported by 

a single passage. In no instance is (lit. “head”) 
applied to the source of a river. On several occasions 
(comp. Judg. vii, 16 ; Job i, 17, etc.) it is used of the 
detachments into which the main body of an army is 
divided, and analogy therefore leads to the conclusion 
that denotes the “branches” of the parent 

stream. There are other difficulties in the details of 
the several theories which may be obstacles to their 
entire reception, but it is manifest that no theory which 
fails to satisfy the above-mentioned conditions can be 
allowed to take its place among things that are proba- 
ble. What, then, is the river which goes forth from 
Eden to water the garden ? is a question which has 
often been asked, and still waits fona fully satisfactory 
answer. That the ocean stream which surrounded 
the earth was the source from which the four rivers 
flowed was the opinion of Josephus (.*!?«'. i, 3, 3) and 
Johannes Damasccnus (Z)e Orthod. Fid. ii, 9). It was 
the Shat el~A rah, according to those who place the 
garden of Eden below the junction of the Tigris and 
Euphrates, and their conjecture would deserve consid- 
eration were it not that this stream cannot, with any 
degree of propriety, be said to rise in Eden. By those 
who refer the position of Eden to the highlands of Ar- 
menia, the “river” from which the four streams di- 
verge is conceived to mean “a collection of springs,” 
or a well- watered district. It is scarcely necessary to 
say that this signification of “liij ( nahar ') is without 
a parallel ; and even if it could, under certain circum- 
stances, be made to adopt it, such a signification is, in 
the present instance, precluded by the fact that, what- 
ever meaning we may assign to the word in ver. 10, 
it must be essentially the same as that which it has 
in the following verses, in which it is sufficiently 
definite. Sickler (Augusti, Theol. Monatschrift , i, 1), 
supposing the whole narrative to be a myth, solves 
the difficulty by attributing to its author a large meas- 
ure of ignorance. The “river” was the Caspian Soa, 
which in his apprehension was an immense stream 
from the east. Bertheau, applying the geographical 
knowledge of the ancients as a test of that of the He- 
brews, arrived at the same conclusion, on the ground 
that all the people south of the Armenian and Persian 
highlands place the dwelling of the gods in the ex- 
treme north, and the regions of the Caspian were the 
northern limit of the horizon of the Israelites (Knobel, 
Genesis). But he allows the four rivers of Eden to 
have been real rivers, and not, as Sickler imagined, 
oceans which bounded the earth east and west of the 
Kile. The modern Lake Van , or perhaps the ancient 
stream of which this is now the representative, ap- 
pears to be the only body of water in this vicinity an- 
swering to the Mosaic description. Nor will it "do to 
suppose that in former ages great changes had taken 
place, which hare so disguised the rivers in question 
that their course, connection, and identity are not now 
traceable; for two of the rivers, at least, remain to 
this day essentially the same as in all historic times, 
and the whole narrative of Moses is evidently adapted 


to the geography as it existed in his own day, being 
constantly couched in the present tense , and in terms 
of well-known reference as landmarks. See River. 

Some, ever ready to use the knife, have unhesita- 
tingly pronounced the whole narrative to be a spurious 
interpolation of a later age (Granville Penn, Min. 
and Mos. Geol. p. 184). But, even admitting this, the 
words are not mere unmeaning jargon, and demand 
explanation. Ewald ( Gesch . i, 331, note) affirms, and 
we have only his word for it, that the tradition origi- 
nated in the far East, and that in the course of its wan- 
derings the original names of two of the rivers at least 
were changed to others with which the Hebrews were 
better acquainted. Hartmann regards it as a product 
of the Babylonian or Persian period. Luther, reject- 
ing the forced interpretations on which the theories of 
his time were based, gave it as bis opinion that the 
garden remained under the guardianship of angels till 
the time of the Deluge, and that its site was known to 
the descendants of Adam ; but that by the flood all 
traces of it were obliterated. But, as before remark- 
ed, the narrative is so worded as to convey the idea 
that the countries and rivers spoken of were still exist- 
ing in the time of the historian. It has been sug- 
gested that the description of the garden of Eden is 
part of an inspired antediluvian document (Morrcn, 
Rosenmuller’s Geogr. i, 92). The conjecture is beyond 
criticism ; it is equally incapable of proof or disproof, 
and has not much probability to recommend it. The 
effects of the flood in changing the face of countries, 
and altering the relations of land and water, are too 
little known at present to allow any inferences to be 
drawn from them. (See below.) 

Conjectures with regard to the dimensions of the 
garden have differed ns widely as those which assign 
its locality. Ephraem Syrus maintained that it sur- 
rounded the whole earth, while Johannes Tostatus re- 
stricted it to a circumference of thirty-six or forty 
miles, and others have made it extend over Syria, 
Arabia, and Mesopotamia. But cf speculations like 
these there is no end. 

111. Identijications of the Site. — It would be difficult, 
in the whole history of opinion, to find any subject 
which has so invited, and at the same time so com- 
pletely baffled conjecture, as the garden of Eden. The 
three continents of the Old World have been subjected 
to the most rigorous search ; from China to the Canary 
Isles, from the Mountains of the Moon to the coasts of 
the Baltic, no locality which in the slightest degree 
corresponded to the description of the first abode of 
the human race has been left linexamincd. The great 
rivers of Europe, Asia, and Africa have in turn done 
service as the Pison ami Gihou of Scripture, and there 
remains nothing but the New World wherein the next 
adventurous theorist may bewilder himself in the 
mazes of this most difficult question. Upon the ques- 
tion of the exact geographical position of Eden dis- 
sertations innumerable have been written. Many au- 
thors have given descriptive lists of them, with argu- 
ments for and against each. The most convenient 
presentation of their respective outlines has been re- 
duced to a tabulated form, with ample illustrations, by 
the Rev. N. Morren (annexed to his translation of the 
younger Rosenmiiller’s Biblical Geography of Central 
'Asia , p. 91-98, Edinb. 183G). lie. reduces them to nine 
principal theories, as follows (numbered as in the fol- 
lowing table ; comp. Kalisch, Genes. s, p. 100 sq.)^ 

i. The opinion which fixes Eden in Armenia we 
have placed first, because it is that which has obtained 
most general support, and seems nearest the truth. 
(See No. vi.) For if we may suppose that, while Cain 
moved to the East (Gen. iv, 10), the posterity of Seth 
remained in the neighborhood of the primeval seat of 
mankind, and that Noah’s ark rested not ver}' far from 
the place of his former abode, then Mount Ararat in 
Armenia becomes a connecting point between the ante- 
diluvian and post-diluvian worlds (Gen. viii, 4), and 


EDEN 


54 


EDEN 


Names. 


11. 

111. 

IV. 

1 v. 

VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 

IX. 

Euen. 

Armenia. 

Korneh,in Bab- 
ylonia. 

Country near 
tile Caspian 
Sea. 

Bactria. 

Syria. 

Country be- 
tween tile 
Ganges and 
Nile. 

Ututiian. 

India. 

Cashmere. 

PtSJlON. 

The Phasis. 

TfY»/er» mouth 
of the Shut 
el-Arab. 

The Araxes. 

The Silion, or 
Jaxartes. 

The Chrysor- 
rhous. 

The Ganges. 

The Nilab, or 
Lesser Sind. 

The Irabatti. 

The Phasia. 

Gihon. 

The Araxes. 

Eastern mouth 
of the Shut 
el-Arah. 

The Oxus, or 
Jibuti. 

The Oxus, or 
Jiliuu. 

The Orontes. 

The Nile. 

The llirmend. 

The Ganges. 

The Oxus. 

Hiddekel. 

The Tigris. 

The Tigris. 

Hie Tigris. 

The Tigris. 

The Tigris. 

The Tigris. 

River of Bah- 

tliCa 

The Indus. 

'Die Tigris. 

Phrat. 

The Euphra- 
tes. 

The Enplirates 

The Euphrates. 

The Euphrates. 

The Euphra- 
tes. 

The Euphra- 
tes. 

River of Cud- 

The Euphrates. 

The Euphrates. 

Havilaii. 

Colchis. 

Arabia Felix. 

.'liwala, on tin- 
west of til. 
Caspian, 

Chworasmia. 

llavilah, in 
Arabia. 

India. 

Cabul. 

Ava. 

Colchis. 

Cl'sh. 

Land of the 
Cossad. 

'hnsistan, or 
Sustuiiu. 

'howrasmia.oi 
the east of Lin 
Caspian. 

Ilindu-cush. 

.’assiotis. 

Vubia and 
Abyssinia. 

Cuslia. 

Die extreme 
South. 

Bactria. 

Asshi'k. 

Assyria. 

\ssyria. 

Assyria. 

\ssyria. 

Assyria. 

\ssyria. 

.tazarah. 

Assyria. 

Assyria ! 


the names of the Phrat, Hiddekel, etc., would readily 
be given to rivers, which, after the great deluge, seem- 
ed to tlow in channels somewhat corresponding to the 
Paradisiacal streams. The opinion in question was 
first systematically propounded by Poland, and is held 
by Calmct, and by his American editor, Prof. Robin- 
son, who, however, understands by Cush, Chusistan. 
Prof. Stuart takes the Pishon for the Kur, ancl Cush 
for Cushi-Capcoch, i.e. the northern part of the region 
between the Caspian Lake and the Persian Gulf (Ifeb. 
Chrest on Gen. ii, 10-14). The Cossaei, whom Reland 
finds in Cush, lived near Media, in the tract*now call- 
ed Dilem, south-west of the Caspian Sea. Link takes 
the Gilion for the Cur or Cyrus, and Cush for the Cau- 
casus. Vcrbrugge coincides with Reland, except that 
he takes the Gilion to be the Gvndes, which flowed 
between Armenia andMatiana. 

ii. This opinion was most elaborately defended by 
Iluet, bishop of Avranches ; hut it is also maintained 
hv Calvin, Bochart, Wells, Steph. Morinus,Vorst, etc. | 
Hales was of this sentiment in the first edition of his I 
Chronology, hut in the second he follows the opinion of i 
Reland. The Shat el-Arah is the name of the united 
streams of the Euphrates and Tigris. Ainsworth says, ! 
“It is probable that the united rivers emptied them- j 
selves into the gulf at this period (in ancient times) h}' j 
several distinct months, of which the first or greatest j 
was at Tercdon, the Ostium Tigris Occidentale of Ptol- 
emy, and the mouth of the Euphrates, according to 
Ncarchus ; the second was the Pasitigris of Pliny, 
probably the Shat el-Arah, and the Ostium Tigris Ori- 
cntale of the Alexandrian geographer.” Cush the}’’ 
compare with the Cutlia of 2 Kings, xvii, 24 ; and Ilav- 
ilah with the Chaulataioi of Eratosthenes in Strabo, 
xvi, 707. Grotius thinks the Pishon is the Pasitigris, 
and the Gilion the Nahr Mnlikah, or the C’haboras. 
Ilottinger agrees with Grotius as to the Pishon, but 
takes the Gilion for the Nahr Sura. Ilopkinson makes 
the Pishon and Gilion to he the two canals of the Eu- 
phrates. the Nahr Malikali, and the Nahr Sares or Sura. 

iii. The celebrated Gottingen professor,.!. D.Michae- 
lis, originated this hypothesis, though lie is doubtful as 
to some of the points. Gatterer, in the main, agrees 
with him, only lie understands the Hiddekel to he the 
Indus, and takes the Pishon for the l’hasis. Cush is 
found bv Michaelis in the name of the city Cath or 
Catlis. the ancient capital of ( howrasmin, on the Oxns 
or Jihun, near the site of llalkh. lie refers to Quint. 
Curtins as speaking of the Cusafi or Cusitani being in 
Bartrin upon the Oxus. Wahl sees Cush in the Kliou- 
sti of Closes of Chorene, nvaning the large province 
between the Caspian and Persian Seas, as far as the 
Indus and Oxus. The land of llavilah Michaelis 
connects with the tribe of Chwaliski or Chwalisses, 
from whom the. Russians call the Caspian Sea the 
Chwalinskoie More. 

iv. This theory has been proposed by the eminent 
Orientalist Von Hammer. The Silion, he says, rises 
near the town of Glia, and compasses the land of Ilah, 
famous for the gold and precious stones of Tnrkhtan. 

v. That Paradise was in Syria was the opinion cf I 


j the voluminous Le Clerc, in his valuable Commentary, 
llavilah is the tract mentioned in 1 Sam. xv, 7. Cush 
is Cassiotis or Mount Casius, near Seleucia in Syria. 
This opinion is shared by Lakemacher, who, however, 
takes the Pishon to he the Jordan. Heidegger thinks 
the Jordan was the great river of Paradise, an idea 
adopted by the paradoxical Hardouin, in his Excursus 
to Pliny's Nat. JJist. lib. vi. Others, who place Eden in 
Arabia Felix, transform the Pishon into the Persian 
Gulf, and the Gilion into the Red Sea. 

vi. This is perhaps the most ancient opinion of any, 
being found in Josephus {Ant. i, 1, 3), and in several 
of the fathers, e. g. Theophilus Autol, ii, 24 ; Epiphan. 
(Epp. ii, GO) ; Philostorgus in Nicephor. llht. Evcl. ix, 
10. though the latter takes the Pishon for the Indian 
river Hypasis. The editor of Calmet observes that 
“ the inhabitants of the kingdom of Goiam call the Nile 
the Gilion.” Gush U naturally taken for Ethiopia. 
This view is embraced by the celebrated Gcsenius, with 
the exception that he maintains the Pishon to he the 
Indus ; in this he is followed in the main by Prof. 
Bush, who likewise observes: “This view of the sub- 
ject, it is admitted, represents the ancient Eden as a 
very widely extended territory, reaching from the In- 
dus on the east to the Nile and the Mediterranean on 
the west, and including the intermediate countries. If 
the view above given of the topography of Eden he 
correct, it will he seen that it embraced the fairest por- 
tion of Asia, besides a part of Africa, comprising the 
countries at present known as Cabul, Persia, Armenia, 
Kurdistan, Syria, Arabia, Abyssinia, and Egypt. The 
garden, however, which is said to have been ‘east- 
ward in Eden,’ was probably situated somewhere in 
the neighborhood of the Euphrates, perhaps not far 
from the site of Babylon, a region nearer its eastern 
than its western limits; but the exact position it is 
apparently vain to attempt to determine.” Among 
the most thorough scholars, the contest seems now to 
lie mainly between this view and that in No. i. 

vii. Captain Wilford, well known for his profound ac- 
quaintance with Hindu antiquities, advanced the pres- 
ent view, as being founded upon the Indian Buninas 
(Asiatic Researches, vi, 455, Lond. edit.). It was part- 
ly adopted by a late ingenious but fanciful writer, Mr. 
C. Taylor, editor of Cal nut's Dictionary , who, however, 
makes the Pishon the Nilab; the Gilion, the western 
branch of the Oxus; the Iliddckel, the eastern; ancl 
the Phrat, the llirmend. 

viii. This and the following arc given as specimens 
of the views of the modern German school of neology, 
which regards the whole narrative as a myth, similar 
to the Greek tradition of the Plesperides, the Islands 
of the Blessed, etc. Philip Buttman is the author of 
the hypothesis under the present number. The Pishon 
lie compares with the Besynga, which is mentioned by 
Ptolemy as t he most considerable river of India east 
of the Ganges. Ava was early known ns a region of 
gold ; and an anonymous geographer, in Hudson’s col- 
lection, vol. iii, speaks of the Eviltie or Evilad as being 
near the Senes or Chinese. 

ix. Another neological theory — the author, A„ T. 


EDEX 


55 


EDEX 



EDEN 


56 


EDEN 


Hartmann, who looks upon the description as a prod- 1 
net of the Babylonish or Persian period. The idea of j 
Eden being the far-famed vale of Cashmere had been 
anticipated by Herder in his work on the History of 
Mankind. Appropriate accounts of Cashmere may be 
found in the travels of Burnes and Jacquemont. 

Many of the Orientals think that Paradise was in 
the island of Serendib or Ceylon ; while the Greeks 
place it at Beth-Eden, on Lebanon. 

These, indeed, are but a few of the opinions that 
have been propounded ; yet, though many more might 
be added, it is to be observed that most of them have 
much in common, and differ only in some of the de- 
tails. To enumerate the vagaries of German and oth- 
er writers on this subject would be endless. (See 
Kitto’s Scripture Lands , p. 1-8.) The fact is that not 
one of them answers to all the conditions of the prob- 
lem. It has been remarked that this difficulty might 
have been expeeted, and is obviously probable, from 
the geological changes that may have taken place, and 
especially in connection with the Deluge. This re- 
mark would not be applicable, to the extent that is 
necessary for the argument, except upon the supposi- 
tion before mentioned, that the earlier parts of the 
book of Genesis consist of primeval documents, even 
antediluvian, and that this is one of them. There is 
reason to think, however, that since the Deluge the face 
of the country cannot have undergone any change ap- 
proaching to what the hypothesis of a post-diluvian 
composition would require. But we think it highly 
probable that the principal of the immediate causes of 
the Deluge, the “ breaking up of the fountains of the 
great deep, ” -was a subsidence of a large part or parts 
of the land between the inhabited tract (which we ven- 
ture to place in E. long, from Greenwien, 30° to 50°, 
and N. lat. 25° to 40°) and the sea which lay to the 
south, or an elevation of the bed of that sea. See 
Deluge. 

As nearly as we can gather from the Scriptural de- 
scription, Eden was a tract of country, the finest imag- 
inable, lying probably between the 35th and the 40th 
degree of N. latitude, of such moderate elevation, and 
so adjusted, with respect to mountain ranges, and wa- 
tersheds, and forests, as to preserve the most agreeable 
and salubrious conditions of temperature and all atmos- 
pheric changes. Its surface must therefore have been 
constantly diversified by hill and plain. In the finest 
part of this land of Eden, the Creator had formed an 
enclosure, probably by rocks, and forests, and rivers, 
and had filled it with every product of nature condu- 
cive to use and happiness. Due moisture, of both the 
ground and the air, was preserved by the streamlets 
from the nearest hills, and the rivulets from the more 
distant; and such streamlets and rivulets, collected 
according to the levels of the surrounding country 
(“it proceeded from Eden”) flowed off afterwards in 
four larger streams, each of which thus became the 
source of a great river. 

Here, then, in the south of Armenia, after the ex- 
plication we have given, it may seem the most suita- 
ble to look for the object of our exploration, the site of 
Paradise. 

That the Hiddekel (this name is said to be still in 
use among the tribes who live upon its banks — Col. 
Chesnejq Erp. to Tigris and Euphrates , i, 13) is the 
Tigris, and the Phrath the Euphrates, has never hecn 
denied, except by those who assume that the whole 
narrative is a myth which originated elsewhere, and 
was adapted by the Hebrews to their own geographical 
notions. As the former is the name of the great river 
by which Daniel sat (Dan. x, 4), and the latter is the 
term uniformly applied to the Euphrates in the Old 
Testament, there seems no reason to suppose that the 
appellations in Gen. ii, 14 are to be understood in any 
other than the ordinary sense. One circumstance in 
the description is worthy of observation. Of the four 
rivers, one, the Euphrates, is mentioned by name only, 


as if that were sufficient to identify it. The other 
three are defined according to their geographical posi- 
tions, and it is fair to conclude that they were therefore 
rivers with which the Hebrews were less intimately 
acquainted. If this be the ease, it is scarcely possible 
to imagine that the Gihon, or, as some say, the Pison, 
is the Nile, for that must have been even more famib 
iar to the Israelites than the Euphrates, and have 
stood as little in need of a definition. 

But the stringent difficulty is to find any two rivers 
that will reasonably answer to the predicates of the 
Pishon and the Gihon, and any countries which can be 
collocated as Ilavilah and Cush. The latter name, in- 
deed, was given by the Hebrews and other Orientals 
to several extensive countries, and those very distant 
both from Armenia and from each other. As for Ilav- 
ilah, we have the name again in the account of the 
dispersion of the descendants of Noah (chap, x, 29); 
but whether that was the same as this Havilah, and in 
what part of Asia it was, we despair of ascertaining. 
Reland and others, the best w r riters upon this question, 
have felt themselves compelled to give to these names 
a comprehension which destroys all preeiseness. So, 
likewise, the meaning of the two names of natural 
products can be little more than matter of conjecture — 
the hedolach and the stone shoham. The former word 
occurs only here and in Num. xi, 7. The Septuagint, 
our oldest and best authority with regard to terms of 
natural history, renders it, in our passage, bv anthrax , 
meaning probably the ruby, or possibly the topaz; 
and in Numbers by crystallos , which the Greeks ap- 
plied not merely to .roek-erystal, but to any finely 
transparent mineral. Any of the several kinds of 
odoriferous gum, which many ancient and modern au- 
thorities have maintained, is not likely, for it could 
not be in value comparable to gold. The pearl is pos- 
sible, but not quite probable, for it is an animal prod- 
uct, and the connection seems rather to confine us to 
minerals ; and pearls, though translucent, are not 
transparent as good crystal is. Would not the dia- 
mond be an admissible conjecture? The shoham oc- 
curs in ten other places, ehiefly in the book of Exo- 
dus, and in all those instances our version says onyx; 
but the Septuagint varies, taking onyx, sardius, sar- 
donyx, beryl, prase-stone, sapphire, and smaragdus, 
which is a green-tinctured rock-crystal. The prepon- 
derance seems to be in favor of onyx, one of the many 
varieties of banded agate ; but the idea of value leads 
us to think that the emerald is the most probable. 
There are two remarkable inventories of precious 
stones in Exod. xxxix, 10-13, and Ezek. xxviii, 13, 
which may be profitably studied, comparing the Sep- 
tnagint with the Hebrew. See IIavilaii. For at- 
tempted identifications of the Pison and Gihon, see 
those names respectivel} 7 . 

IV. For the Literature of the subject, see Paradise. 

2. OjT^, Sept. ’Ece/.t, but omits in Isa. xxxvii, 12, 
and Ezek. xxvii, 23 : Vulg. Eden), one of the marts 
which supplied the luxury of Tyre with richly embroi- 
dered stuffs. It is associated with Haran, Sheba, and 
Assliur ; and in Amos i, 5, Beth-Eden, or “ the house 
of Eden,” is rendered in the Sept, by Charran (Xop- 
pdv). In 2 Kings xix, 12, and Isa. xxxvii, 12, “the 
sons of Eden” are mentioned with Gozan, Haran, and 
liczeph, as victims of the Assyrian greed of conquest. 
Telassar appears to have been the head-quarters of 
the tribe; and Knobel’s (Comm, on Isaiah) etymology 
of this name would point to the highlands of Assyria 
as their whereabouts. But this has no sound founda- 
tion, although the view which it supports receives con- 
firmation from the version of Jonathan, who gives 
( Chndib ) as the equivalent of Eden. Bochart 
proved (Phaleg, pt. i, p. 274) that this term w r as applied 
by the Talmudic writers to the mountainous district 
of Assyria, which bordered on Media, and was known 
as Adiabene. But if Gozan be Gausanitis in Meso* 


EDENIUS 


57 


EDGAR 


potamia, and Haran be Carrhre, it seems more natural 
to look for Eden somewhere in the same locality. Keil 
{Comm, on Kings, ii, 97) thinks it may be Ma'don , 
which Assemani {Bill. Or. ii, 2*24) places in Mesopo- 
tamia, in the modern province of Diarbekr. Ilochart, 
considering the Eden of Genesis and Isaiah as identi- 
cal, argues that Gozan, Ilaran, Kezeph, and Eden arc 
mentioned in order of geographical position, from north 
to south ; and, identifying Gozan with Gausanitis, Ha- 
ran with Carrhae, a little below Gausanitis on the Cha- 
bor, and liezeph with Reseipha, he gives to Eden a still 
more southerly situation at the confluence of the Eu- 
phrates and Tigris, or even lower. According to him, 
it may be Addon or Addana, which geographers place 
on the Euphrates. Michaelis ( Suppl . No. 1820) is in 
favor of the modern Aden , a port of Arabia (called by 
Ptolemy 'Apafiiaz IpTropiou), as the Eden of Ezekiel. 
—Smith, s. v. See Yedan. 

3, Cn^, Amos i, 5, “bouse of Eden”). See Beth- 
Eden. 

4. (Sept, ’hoedv v. r. Son of Joah, and 

one of the Gershonitc Levites who assisted in the ref- 
ormation of public worship under Hezekiah (2 Chron. 
xxix, 12). B.C. 720. lie is probably the same with 
the Lcvite appointed in the same connection one of the 
superintendents of the distribution of the free-will of- 
ferings (2 Chron. xxxi, 15, Sept. ’Odop v. r. qdov- 
tiov). 

Edenius, Jordan Nicolas, a Swedish theologi- 
an, was born in 1624, and became professor of theology 
at Upsal in 1659. ITe died in 1666, leaving, among 
other works, Disserted tones theological de Christiana} re- 
ligior.is veritate (Abo, 1664): — Epitome historic eccle- 
siastical published by bishop Gezelins at Abo in 1681. 
— Hocfer, Nouv. Blog. Generate, xv, 647. 

E'der (II eb. id. ‘Yir, a flock, as often), the name 
of a place and also of a man. . Sec Edar ; Ader. 

1. (Sept. 'Edpatv,X at. MS. omits; Vulg . Eder.) A 
city in the extreme south of Judah, on the Idnmaian 
border, mentioned between Kabzeel and Jagnr (Josh, 
xv, 21); therefore, doubtless, one of those afterwards 
assigned to Simeon. Schwarz suggests ( Palest . p. 99) 
that it may be the same with Arai> (q. v.), by a trans- 
position of letters; but this is doubtful. Possibly it 
was situated on the eminence north of the fountain 
marked as “water” on Van dc Velde’s Map, in wady 
el-Ernez, S. W. of the Dead Sea. 

2. (Sept. ’E£tp, Vulg. Eder.') The second named of 
the three “ sons” (i. c. descendants) of Mnshi appoint- 
ed to the Lcvitical offices in the time of David (1 Chron. 
xxiii, 23; xxiv, 30). B.C. 1013. 

E'des (rather Edais, Vulg. Esmi), one of 

the “ sons of Ethma,” who had married foreign wives 
after the captivity (1 Esdr. ix, 35) ; evidently the Ja- 
dau (q. v.) of the Ileb. list (Ezra x, 43). 

Edessa (modem name Urfah or Orfa; Armeni- 
an name Edessia ; Arab. Er-Rohi ; Syrian, Urhoi ), an 
ancient city of Mesopotamia, 78 miles S.W. from Di- 
arbekir. An old legend attributes its origin to Nim- 
rod, or to Khabiha, a female contemporary of Abra- 
ham. The Targums (followed by Jerome and Ephrem 
S}*rus) make it the Erech of Gen. x, 10. Another tra- 
dition (Jewish and Arabic) makes it Ur of the Chal- 
dees (Gen. xi, 28). “ With the conquest of Persia by 

the Greeks the history of Edessa first becomes clear. 
Seleucus, in particular, is said to have done much for 
the aggrandizement of the city. Christianity was in- 
troduced into Edessa at an early period. In the reign 
of Trajan the place was made tributary to Rome, and 
in A.D. 216 became a Roman military colony, under 
the name of Colonia Marcia Edessenorum . During 
this period its importance in the history of the Chris- 
tian Church continued to increase. More than 300 
monasteries are said to have been included within its 
walls. With the extension of the religion of Islam, 


Edessa fell into the hands of the Arabian caliphs. 
Christianity declined, and wars at home and abroad 
during the caliphate destroyed likewise its temporal 
splendor add prosperity, till, in 1040, it fell into the 
possession of the Seljuk Turks. The Byzantine em- 
perors succeeded in recovering Edessa, but the viceroy 
contrived to make himself independent. He was, 
however, hard. pressed by the Turks, and this rendered 
it easy for the crusader Baldwin, the brother of God- 
frey of Bouillon, to gain possession of the eity^ (A.D. 
1097), and make it the capital of a Latin principality, 
and the bulwark of the kingdom of Jerusalem. Under 
the Frankish princes, Edessa held out valiantly against 
the Mussulmans, till at length Zengi, ruler of Mosul, 
succeeded in taking the town and citadel in the year 
1144, when all the Christian churches were converted 
into mosques. After many vicissitudes, in the course 
of which Edessa fell successively into the hands of the 
sultans of Egypt, the Byzantines, the Mongols, Turko- 
mans, and Persians, the city was finally conquered by 
the Turks, and has ever since formed a portion of the 
Turkish dominions. The population is variously esti- 
mated at from 25,000 to 50,000, of whom 2000 are Ar- 
menian Christians. The Jacobites, in the last century, 
had 150 houses and a church. The rest are Turks, 
Arabians, Kurds, and Jews. Edessa is regarded by 
the Easterns as a sacred city, because they believe it 
to have been the residence of Abraham” (Chambers, 
Encyclopaedia, s. v.). It is still the seat of a Greek 
archbishop and an Armenian bishop. A dialect of the 
Aramaic is still spoken at Edessa (comp. Etheridge on 
the Aramaic Dialects , p. 10). 

The report of the introduction of Christianity by 
king Abgar (q. v.), a contemporary of Christ, is proba- 
bly an unfounded legend ; but it is certain that Chris- 
tianity became firmly rooted in Edessa at a very early 
period. The twenty-sixth Osrhoenian king (152-187) 
was, if not a Christian himself, a patron of Christian- 
ity, and the Gnostic Bardesanes is said to have been 
highly esteemed by him. Edessa was an early epis- 
copal see, and in the 4th century became the chief 
seat of Syrian ecclesiastical learning. The emperor 
Julian threatened to distribute the large treasure of 
the churches of Edessa among his soldiers, but bis 
death saved the churches from the execution of this 
threat. In 363, Ephrem (q. v.), the Syrian, came from 
Nisibis to Edessa, and by his preaching, teaching, and 
prolific writing's, greatly distinguished himself in the 
defence of the orthodox doctrines of the Church. After 
the death of Ephrem, the Arians took possession of all 
the churches of Edessa, but after live years the ascen- 
dency of the orthodox school was restored. Different 
from the Edessene school established by Ephrem was 
the Persian school at Edessa, which was intended to 
be a seminary for the Christian subjects of the Persian 
king. It attained its highest prosperity in the time of 
Ephrem, became subsequently a stronghold of Ncsto- 
rianism, and was on that account dissolved in 4^9.— 
Herzog, Real-EncyH. iii, 645; Wetzer und Welte, Kir- 
chen-Lex. iii, 391 ; Chronicon Edessennm, in Assemani, 
Biblioth. Oriental, i, 387-428 ; Cureton, Ancient Syriac 
Documents relative to Edessa, etc. (Lord. 1866); Ether- 
idge, The Syrian Churches (Loud. 1846), p. 35 sq. See 
Nestorians. 

Edgar, John, D.D., a Presbyterian minister of 
Ireland, was born in Count}' Down, Ireland, in 1797, 
and entered the ministry in 1820. His life from the 
outset of his ministry in 1820 was one of ceaseless toil. 
“His energy of character was immense, and his name 
became a tower of strength to all the Christian enter- 
prises with which he was identified. Upon the union 
of Presb}'terians in 1840 he was made one of the pro- 
fessors of Divinity for the Assembly, and the influence 
he wielded over its students was very great, and he 
put forth strenuous and successful efforts for the erec- 
tion and equipment of its theological college in Bel- 
fast. He fired the hearts of his students with his own 


EDGAI 


58 


EDIFICATION 


zeal in the work of the evangelization of their coun- 
try, and spent much of his vacation in personal labors 
for it. II is spirit in church extension was remark- 
able. II is last great effort was in undertaking to 
raise about .'*100,000 for erecting additional manses 
among the churches. By far the greater part of this 
had been secured before his death.” At least liftv of 
the houses of worship belonging to the Presbyterian 
Church in Ireland owe their existence to his persever- 
ing efforts, lie died in Dublin August 26, 1866. See 
Kill .mi, Memoirs of John Edgar (Belfast and London, 
1867) ; 1 merican Annual Cyclopaedia for 1866, p. 277. 

Edgar, John Todd, 1).D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Sussex County, Delaware, April 13, 
1792. With the proverbial love for knowledge of the 
Scotch-Irish, his parents gave him the best education 
that could be obtained in Kentucky, to which state 
they removed soon after his birth. He graduated at 
Princeton in 1816, and was licensed by the New Bruns- 
wick Presbytery. In 1817 he was ordained pastor of 
the church at Flemiugsburg, Ky. lie was thence 
called to Maysville, where lie labored unremittingly. 
In 1829 he was induced to accept a call from the 
church at Frankfort, Ky, where his eloquence soon 
gathered around him the leading men of the state. 
Henry Clay said of him, “If you want to hear elo- 
quence, listen to John T. Edgar.” In 1833 he became 
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Nashville, 
Tenn., and continued to discharge the duties of that 
office with great fidelity and success up to the year 
1859, when an assistant was appointed to aid him. 
lie was distinguished for power in the pulpit, and for 
a degree of liberality of feeling and public spirit which 
caused him to be regarded as belonging rather to the 
whole community than to his particular church. Mr. 
Edgar wrote little, though at one time he was editor 
of the American Presbyterian , published at Nashville, 
lie died suddenly of apoplexy Nov. 13, 1860. 

Edge, with reference to the sword, is the rendering 
of l"I3. peh, mouth (like aropa , Luke xxi, 24; lleb. xi, 
84), or tern. peyah' (Juclg. iii, 16) ; also 3U35, pa- 
id ni , face (Eccles. x, lft); poet. "1*12, tsur, a rock, hence 
sharpness (Psa. Ixxxix, 43): elsewhere, in the sense 
of brink or margin ; it corresponds to nsi', saphah ' , 
lip ; and to katsah ' , kasteh or rPSp 

kitsveh', extremity (Exod. xxviii, 7 ; xxxix, 4; xiii, 
20; xxvi, 5; xxxvi, 12; Num. xxxiii, 6, 37; Josh, 
xiii, 27 ; Psa. xxxix, 4). To “set on edge” is an in- 
accurate rendering (dor. xxxi, 29, 30; Ezek. xviii, 2) 
of hdiah', to be blunt (as in Eccles. x, 10). See 
Sword. 

Ed(cT)i'as (’h^t'ac, Alex. MS.TeJJ/«£, Vulg. Geddi - 
as), the second named of the “sons of Phoros,” who 
took foreign wives after the captivity (1 Esdr. ix, 26) ; 
evidently the Jeziaii (q.v.)ofthe Heb. list (Ezra x, 25). 

Edict, the technical name of a paper read in Pres- 
byterian churches in Scotland, “as a species of guard 
on the purity of the Christian ministry. It is a public 
invit ation to all who can say anything against the 
minister elect to come forward for the purpose. The 
form of the document authorized by the T inted 1\ es- 
byteriun Church is as follows: ‘ Whereas the presby- 
tery of of the United Presbyterian Church have 

received a call from this congregation, addressed to A. 
II. , preacher (or minister) of the Gospel, to be their 
mini>ter, and the said call has been sustained as a reg- 
ular Gospel call, and been accepted of by the said A. 
Ih, and he has undergone trials for ordination ; and 
whereas the said presbytery having judged the said A. 
Ik qualified for the ministry of the Gospel and the pas- 
toral charge of this congregation, have resolved to pro- 
ceed to his ordination on the.- day of , un- 

less something occur which may reasonably impede it, 
notice is hereby given to all concerned that if they, or 


! any of them, have anything to object wliy the said A. 
B. should not he ordained pastor of this congregation, 
they may repair to the presbytery, which is to meet at 
on the said day of ; with certifica- 
tion, that if no valid objection be then made, the pres- 
bytery will proceed without farther delay. By order 
of the presbytery.’ ” — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclopaedia , s. v. 

Edict of Nantes. See Nantes ; France, Pre- 
formed Church of. 

Edicts, Imperial. See Persecutions. 

Edification, “ the process by which believers are 
built up, that is. progressively advanced in knowledge 
and holiness. (1.) The ‘ sacred writers perpetually 
employ this figure as their favorite illustration of the 
condition of Christians, as forming collectively the 
temple, succeeding that literal one on Mount Sion ; 
the temple in which the Lord dwells by bis holy 
Spirit; and as being, individually, “living stones, 
builded up into an habitation for the Lord.” ’ ‘ The 

words “edify” and “edification” have so completely 
lost their literal signification in our tongue, that it 
would be reckoned even an impropriety to use them in 
speaking of the building of a literal edifice, and thus 
the reader loses the force and significance of the lam 
I guage of the sacred writers.’ The word ‘edify,’ es- 
J pccially when applied to individual Christians, has of- 
ten the sense of instruct; though in the ‘ Preface’ to the 
‘Order of Confirmation’ in the English Prayer-book, 

‘ To the end to the more edifying,’ the word is 

probably used in the sense already explained, not in 
the especial sense of ‘ instruct’ ” (Eden). 

(2.) “To perceive the full force and propriety of the 
term as used by the apostles, it is quite necessary to 
keep in mind the similitudes by which they generally 
describe a Christian church. All those spiritual gifts, 
which were bestowed on the Christians were for the 
building and edifying of the members of the Church. 
The apostolical power in Church censures was for edi- 
fication, not for destruction (2 Cor. x, 8) ; to build, and 
not to pull down ; that is, to preserve the unity of the 
Church entire, and its communion pure. And we may 
observe that this edification is primarily applied to the 
Church: that the Church may receive edifying; that 
ye may excel to the edifying of the Church; for the 
edifying of the body of Christ. (1 Cor. xiv, 5, 12; Ephes. 
iv, 12). And it is very observable wherein the apostle 
places the edification of the body of Christ, viz. in uni- 
ty and love : till we all come in the unity of the faith, 
and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect 
man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of 
Christ (Ephes. iv, 12, 13). Till we are united hv one 
faith unto one body, and perfect man. And speaking 
the truth in love, may grow up into him in all things, 
which is the head, even Christ; from whom the whole 
body fitly joined together, and compacted by that which 
every joint supplieth, according to the effectual work- 
| ing in the measure of every part, maketh increase of 
the body unto the edifying of itself in love (Ephes. iv, 
15, 16). This is an admirable description of the unity 
of the Church, in which all the parts are closely united 
and compacted together, as stones and timber are to 
make one bouse; and thus they grow into one body, 
and increase in mutual love and charity, which is the 
| very building and edification of the Church, which is 
| edified and built up in love, as the apostle adds, that 
knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth (1 Cor. viii, 
1). This builds up the Church of Christ ; and that 
not such a common charity as we have for all mankind, 
but such a love and sympathy as is peculiar to the 
members of the same body, and which none but mem- 
bers can have for each other” (Hook, Ch. Diet. s. v.). 

(3.) “ Many professors, and even teachers of religion, 
not greatly liking such union and its obvious conse- 
quences, yet finding much said in the New Testament 
of the attainments and comforts of the first Christians 
have studied to devise means of enjoying these com 


EDIFICE 


59 


EDOMITE 


forts separately. Instead of the objects that chiefly 
drew the attention of the first believers, they have en- 
deavored to fix the attention of Christians on a multi- 
tude of rules respecting the particular conduct of each 
in his devout exercises, his attendance on ordinances, 
and the frame ofhis heart therein. But this is a scheme 
of religion of mere human device. Nothing can be 
plainer from the whole tenor of the Acts of the Apos- 
tles, and their epistles to the churches, than that it is 
the will of Christ his disciples should unite together, 
holding fellowship in the institutions of the Gospel ; 
and also that, as he in his infinite wisdom and grace 
has made abundant provision for Iheir comfort, estab- 
lishment, and edification, so these blessings can only 
be effectually enjoyed in proportion as they obey his 
will in this respect'’ (Buck, Theol. Dictionary , s. v.). 

Edifice. See Architecture; House; Temple; 
Church. 

Edilthryda or Etheldrida, St., daughter of 
the Anglo-Saxon queen Anne. She made a vow of 
chastity in her youth, but was afterwards compelled 
to marry earl Toudbert, who, at her request, respect- 
ed her vow. After his death she desired to retire 
to the island of Ely, but was eventually obliged to 
marry Egfrid, son of the king of Northumbria. This 
marriage was dissolved, and in G71 she retired to the 
convent of Coldingham, and afterwards to the island 
of Ely, where she erected a convent, of which Wilfrid 
named her abbess. Here she led a life of asceticism 
until her death in G79. — Herzog, Real-Encykl. iii, 648 ; 
Butler, Lives of faints, June 23. 

Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland, and seat of a 
bishop of the Scotch Episcopal Church. The diocese 
of Edinburgh had in 18G7 24 churches, 2 missions, 33 
clergymen, and 20 schools. The population of the 
city was, in 18G3, 168,098. Edinburgh is also the seat 
of a Roman Catholic vicar apostolic, whose district 
had in 1SG0 about GO parishes and 70,000 Roman Cath- 
olics. See Churchman's Calendar for 1868 ; Neker, 
Kirchl. Geoyr. i, 103. (A. J. S.) 

Editions, PRINTED, of tiie Original Texts 
of tiie Bible. See Scriptures, Holy; Criticism, 
Biblical. 

Edmund I of England, king and martyr, suc- 
ceeded in 855, when hut fifteen years of age, to his fa- 
ther Offa, king of the East Angles. Edmund reigned 
in meekness, and his whole life was a preparation for 
marty dom. About 870 the heathen Danes invaded 
the kingdom, and, after violating the nuns, killing the 
priests, and laying waste the country, made him a pris- 
oner. Unwilling to offend God by submitting to the 
terms of his captors, he was tortured, and finally be- 
headed (870). In 1122 bis anniversary was placed 
among the English holidays, and the kings of England 
took him for patron. See his Life by Abbo, and an- 
other bv John Lydgate. — Herzog, Real- Encyk lop. iii, 
648. 

Edmund, St., Edmund Rich, archbishop of Can- 
terbury in the thirteenth century, studied at Paris, 
where he became doctor of theology. Returning to 
England, lie preached for the Crusades with such suc- 
cess as to command the approval of the Pope. lie 
was consecrated archbishop of Canterbury April 2, 
1234. It fell to his lot as prolate to resist the will of 
the Pope, and also that of the king of England, and he 
did resist manfully. He died at the monaster}' of 
Soissy, in France, Nov. 16, 1242. The English peo- 
ple, who admired and loved him, demanded his canon- 
ization; the papal court at first refused, but finally 
yielded, and lie was canonized by pope Innocent IV 
in 1249. His Speculum Ecclesuv is published in the 
Bibliotheca Patrum. — Hoefer, Xonv. Bioy. Generate, xv, 
6G0 ; Hook, Lives of the Archbishops of Canterbury 
(18G5, vol. iii) ; Wright, Bioyraphia Liter ana (Anglo- 
Norman period). 


EcTna ( v EtV<r, i. e. pleasure; Vulg. Anna), 

the wife of Raguel and mother of Sara, the bride of 
Tobias (Tob. vii, 2, 8, 14, 1G ; x, 12 ; xi, 1). 

E'dom (Ileb. Edom , E"JXor CITX, so called from 
his red hair, Gen. xxv, 25, or from the red pottage for 
which he bartered his birthright, ver. 30; Sept. ’Ef </>/<), 
the later name of Isaac’s son, elder twin-brother of 
Jacob ; more frequently called Esau (q. v.). See also 
Obed-Edom. 

Edom (Sept. ’Icovpaia) stands also collectively for 
the Edomites , the posterity of Edom or Esau ; and like- 
wise for their country. See Edomite. 

E'domite (Heb. Adomi' , Sept. 'IcovftaTog, 

fern. plur. 1 Kings xi, 1, Sept. ’lcovpaia ; but 

usually SIX, Edom , put collectively for the Edomites). 
The name Edom (fully written ariX, red; see Gese- 
nius, Heb. Thesaur. i, 2G) was originally the secondary 
name of Esau (Gen. xxv, 30, comp. ver. 25; xxxvi, 
8), but is used ethnographical]}' in the O. T., his de- 
scendants (“children of Edom,” ^2) being the 

race who had settled in the south of Palestine, and 
who at a later period came into conflict with the kin- 
dred nation of the Israelites (Dent, xxiii, 7 ; Num. 
xx, 14). Comparatively seldom are the appellations 
children of Esau (Dcut. ii, 4, 8 ; 1 Macc. v, 3), house of 
Esau (Obnd. IS), mount Esau (Obnd. 8, 9, 19, 21). or 
simply Esau (Jer. xlix, 8, 10; Obnd. G), used in Scrip- 
ture for the Edomites or Idumaea; the people and 
country arc oftener called merely Edom (Num. xxiv, 
18 ; Josh, xv, 1 ; 2 Sam. viii, 14 ; 1 Kings xi, 14; and 
especially by the prophets), hence, more fully, land of 
Edom (Gen. xxxvi, 16, 21; Num. xxxiii, 37), or field 
of Edom (Gen. xxxii, 3; Judg. v, 4). The territory 
of the Edomites was mountainous (Obad. 8, 9, 19, 21), 
situated at the southern (Josh, xi, 17 ; xii, 7), i. e. 
south-eastern border of Palestine (Num. xxxiv, S), or 
more particularly of the tribe of Judah (Josh, xv, 1, 
21), in the neighborhood of the Moabites (Jndg. xi, 
18; Isa. xi, 14; 2 Kings iii, 8), and was properly call- 
ed the land or mountain of Seir (“"ITw, Gen. xxvi, 
20; xxxii, 4; Josh, xxiv, 2; Ezek. xxxv, 3, 7, 15; 
comp. Deut. ii, 4, 29). See Seir. Lofty and inter- 
sected by chasms in the rocks, it formed a natural fast- 
ness (Jer. xlix, 1G sq. ; Obad. 3 sq.), vet it was by no 
means unfruitful (Gen. xx vii, 39). It contained, among 
other cities, the famous rock-hewn Sela (2 Kings xiv, 
7), and extended from the yElanitic Gulf to the Red Sea 
(1 Kings ix, 2G; 2 Chron. viii, 17). Hence it admits 
of no doubt that the cleft and craggy region traversed 
by fruitful valleys, now called el-Shira , which stretches 
from the southern extremity of the Dead Sea to the 
eastern arm of the Red Sea, and is separated on the 
west hv the long sandy plain cl-Ghor from the. desert 
et-Tib (Sectzen, xviii, 390,434; Burckhardt, Trav. ii, 
G83), and bounded on the north by the wady el-Ahsa, 
which separates it from 1 the land of Moab, near Keral:, 
in the district of Jehal, is the ancient land of Edom, as 
Saadias has long ago perceived, for he renders Seir in 
Gen. xxxvi, 8 by the same Arabic name Shera (comp. 
Raumer in Berghaus’s Annul . d.Erd. u. Yblkerkunde , 
i, 5G2 sq.). See Sela ; Tf.man ; Uz ; Bozraii. Ac- 
cording to the division in Greek authors, the territory 
of Edom ,Idumrea (’1 dov/taia, a name evidently derived 
from the lleb.), was reckoned as a part of Arabia Pe- 
tram (see Ant lion’s Class. Dirt. s. v.). The early in- 
habitants of Mount Seir, who were called Horites , were 
destroyed by the Edomites (Dent, ii, 12, 22), or rather 
supplanted and absorbed by them. Sec Horite. Al- 
ready, in the time of Moses, the Edomites showed a 
hostile feeling towards the Israelites by forbidding 
them to pass though their territories, and thus subject- 
ing them to the hardship of journeying around it (Num. 
xx, 15-21 ; xxi, 4; comp. Judg. xi, 17 sq. ; see Heng- 
stenberg, rent, ii, 283) ; an act which Saul successfully 


EDOMITE 


60 


EDREI 


avenged (1 Sam. xiv, 47), while David subjugated them 
(2 Sam. viii, 14 : comp. 1 Kings xi, 15 sq. ; I’sa. lx, 2, 

10) , and his successor Solomon fitted out a merchant 
fleet in the Edoinitish harbors (1 Kings ix, 26), al- 
though under his reign a partially successful revolt 
took place (1 Kings xi, 14 sq.). In the division of the 
Hebrew commonwealth the Edomites continued under 
the sway of Judah (probably by means of viceroys, 2 
Kings iii, 9, 12, 26 ; but compare 1 Kings xxii, 48 ; 2 
Kings viii, 20), so that their ports were at the disposal 
of Jewish commerce to the time of Joram (1 Kings 
xxii, 49), under whose reign (B.C. 885) they threw' off 
their allegiance (2 Kings viii, 20), and maintained their 
independence by force of arms against several succeed- 
ing princes of the weak kingdom of Judah (2 Kings 
viii, 21). Amaziah (2 Kings xiv, 7 ; 2 Chron. xxv, 

11) , in B.C. cir. 836, and also Uzziali (2 Kings xiv, 22 ; 
2 Chron. xxv, 11), in B.C. cir. 802, again reduced the 
Edomites to subjection ; but under Ahaz (B.C. cir. 
738) they invaded Judaea (2 Chron. xxviii, 17), while, 
at the same time, the harbor of Elath was wrested 
from the Jewish dominions by the Syrians (2 Kings 
xvi, 6). From this time forward, the Edomites, fa- 
vored by the increasingly formidable attitude of As- 
syria, and later of Chaldaea, remained in merely nom- 
inal connection with the kingdom of Judah, enjoying 
real independence, until they too at last were forced to 
succumb to the Chalda?an power (Jcr. xxvii, 3, 6). 
The earl}' prophets, nearly contemporary with these 
events, had already announced Judah’s future triumph 
over these rebellious subjects and persistent enemies 
(Isa. xi, 14; Joel iii, 19 ; Amos i, 11); but, after they 
had made common cause with the foes of Israel at the 
capture of Jerusalem (Ezek. xxxv, 15 ; xxxvi, 5 ; 
Obad. 10, 13 sq.), the denunciations of the prophets 
became still more decisive (Jcr. xlix, 8, 20; Lam. iv, 
21 sq. ; Ezek. xxv, 12 sq. — compare 35; Obad. pass. ; 
Psa. cxxxvii, 7 ; comp. Isa. xxxiv, 5 sq. ; Ixiii, 1 sq.). 
The Edomites, it is true, likewise felt the ravages of 
the Chaldaean march (Mai. i, 3 sq.), but they w r ere left 
in their ow'n land (in opposition to the view of Eich- 
horn, II< hr. Proph. ii, 618, 624 ; Bertholdt, Einleit. iv, 
1440, 1626, who maintain that the ldumaeans were po- 
litically annihilated by Nebuchadnezzar ; see Geseni- 
us, Comm, on Isa. i, 906 : nor are the predictions of the 
utter desolation of Edom, e. g. Jer. xlix, 17 sq., to be 
pressed to their extreme fulfilment; see Heinrich, De 
Idnmtea ejnsque vastatione, Lips. 1782), and they even 
rentaw'ay a portion of southern Palestine (comp. Ezek. 
xxxv, 10), including the town of Hebron (1 Macc. v, 
65). During the Syrian rule they continued to evince 
their old ill will against the Jew's (1 Macc. v, 3, 65 ; 2 
Macc. x, 15; xii, 32 sq.), until they were wholly sub- 
dued by John Ilyrcanus (B.C. cir. 129), and, by a com- 
pulsory circumcision, were merged in the Jewish slate 
(Josephus, Ant. xiii, 9, 1 ; xv, 7, 9; comp. ll??r, iv, 5, 
5; yet they were invidiously termed half -Jews, Ant. 
xiv, 15, 2). From that time Idumaea continued under 
a Jewish prefect (orparf/yor, Joseph. A nt. xiv, 1. 3). 
One of these, Antipater, managed so to ingratiate him- 
self with the Jewish court, and, during the disputes 
concerning the Maccabaian succession, wielded the 
proeuratorship of all Juda?a, with which the friendship 
of the emperor had invested him. with such efficiency 
(B.C. 47), that he eventually secured the supreme pow- 
er instead of Hyrcanus 1 1 (Joseph. .1 nt. xiv, 8, 5). His 
son Herod became the acknowledged king of the Jew s, 
and founded an Idumaean dynasty in Palestine. Idu- 
maea formed a province of his dominions, and was un- 
der the administration of a special governor («p\uu', 
Joseph. Ant. xv, 7, 9). Concerning the farther history 
of this people, we can here only remark, that the ldu- 
maeans in the last JewiMt contest acted the same ruin- 
ous part w'ith the Jew's themselves (Joseph. B/rr, iv, 4, 
1 and 5 ; vii, 8, 1). The name of Edom or Edomite is 
to this day hateful to the Jews (Otho, Lex. Pabb. p. 
196 ; LiglUfoot, Jlor. Ileb. p. 693). From the time of 


the overthrow of the Jewish nation, the name of Idu- 
ma»a no longer occurs, but passes away in the wider 
denomination Arabia (comp. Steph. Byz. p. 334, 341 ; 
Strabo xvi, 760, 749); since already for a long period 
the southern part of the ancient land of the Edomites 
w r as reckoned, together with its metropolis Petra, to 
Arabia, and entitled separately from (the Jewish prov- 
ince) Idumaea (Joseph. Ant. xiv, 1, 3 ; xvii, 3, 2 ; War, 
i, 13, 8); so that Idumaea, while on the north it in- 
cluded in addition a Jewish district (comp, the term 
Idumaean for Jew', especially among the Roman poets, 
Celsii Ilierob. ii, 469 sq.), at the same time was con- 
tracted in its southern boundary (comp. Ptol. v, 16, 10; 
v, 17 ; Strabo, xvi, 760; Jerome in Obad. 1); but this 
does not affect Biblical geography, and it would be 
difficult to reduce the point to full historical and topo- 
graphical clearness (see Reland, Palast. p. 69 sq.). 
See Arabia; Petra. 

The form of government among the Edomitish peo- 
ple was, like that of surrounding nations, tribal (comp. 
Gen. xxxvi, 15 sq.), yet they originally (or at least 
earlier than the Israelites) had kings (Gen. xxxvi, 32 
sq. ; Nnm. xx, 14; see Tuch on Gen. xxxvi, 9 sq. ; 
Bertheau, Israel. Gesch. p. 207), w r ho appear to have been 
freely chosen from among the clan-chieftains (princes, 
Gen. xxxvi, 40; Ezek. xxxii, 29; comp. Isa. xxxiv, 
12, and Gesenius, in loc. ; Hengstenberg, Pent, ii, 299 
sq.), until (in the time of Solomon) a hereditary dy- 
nasty had established itself (1 Kings xi, 14 sq.). 
While the country remained under Israel itish sway, 
the native royal government was nearly superseded (1 
Kings xxii, 48); although under Jchoshaphat men- 
tion is made (2 Kings iii, 9, 26) of a king (viceroy) of 
the Edomites (in alliance with him), and from this 
time the}' seem to have had an uninterrupted line of 
kings (Amos ii, 1; Jer. xxvii, 3; Ezek. xxxii, 29). 
The principal mode of livelihood and employment of 
the Edomites were commerce by land by means of 
caravans (Ileeren, Ideen, i, 1, p. 107 ; Lengerke, Ken. 
i, 298 ; compare Ezek. xxviii, 16, where, however, the 
true reading is Aram ; see Ilavernick in loc.), probably 
to Elath and Ezion-geber, on the Red Sea ; the rais- 
ing of cattle, agriculture, aud the cultivation of vines 
1 (Num. xx, 17; Ezek. xxv, 13); according to Jerome 
(Onom. s. v. Ken on), also mining (sec C. G.Flade, lie re 
met all. Jlidianit . , Pdomit . , et Plioenic ., Lips. n. d.). Re- 
specting their religion the Old Test, is entirely silent, 
except that it was some form of polytheism (2 Chron. 
xxv, 20); Josephus (.*!»/. xv, 7, 9) mentions one of 
their gods by the name of Coze (Ko^e, ? the de- 

stroyer or ender ; see Hitzig, Philist. p. 265 ; and comp, 
j Epiphan. Jloer. 55; Lengerke, Ken. i, 298). From 
the earliest times the wisdom of the Edomites, namely, 
of the Temanite branch, was celebrated (Obad. 8; Jcr. 
xlix, 7). See Uz. (On the subject generally, see 
Van Iperen, Hist. crit. Edonueor. et Amalel:. Leonard. 
1768; Hoffmann, in the Hall. Encyklop. II, xv, 146). 

| — Wilier, i, 292. See Idum.ea. 

Ed'rei (Hcb. Edre'i, “rppN, mighty; Sept. ’E epa- 
1 tiv and ’Kewur), the name of two cities. 

1. One of the metropolitan tow ns (Ashtaroth being 
the other) of the kingdom of Bashan, beyond the Jor- 
dan (Josh, xii, 4, 5; xiii, 12; Dent, iii, 10). It was 
here that Og, the gigantic king of Bashan, was defeat- 
ed by the Israelites, and lost his kingdom (Num. xxi, 
33-35; Dent, i, 4 ; iii, 1-3). Edrei afterwards belong- 
ed to eastern Manasseli (Josh, xiii, 31; Num. xxxii, 
33). It is probable that Edrei did not remain long in 
possession of the Israelites. May it not he that they 
abandoned it in consequence of its position within the 
borders of a wild region infested by numerous robber 
bands? The Lejah is the ancient Argob, and appears 
to have been the stronghold of the Geshurites; and 
they perhaps subsequently occupied Edrei (Josh, xii, 
4, 5). It was the seat of a bishop in the early ages of 
Christianity (Reland, Falccst. p. 547), and a bishop of 


EDREI 


61 


EDUCATION 


Adraa sat in the Council of Seleucia (A.D. 381) and 
of Chalcedon (A.D. 451). In A.D. 1142 the Crusaders 
under Baldwin III made a sudden attack upon Adraa, 
or Adralum , then popularl} 7 called also Civitas Ber- 
nardi de Stam/ns , but they encountered such obstacles 
in the difficult nature of the ground, the scarcity of 
water, and the valor of the inhabitants, that they'were 
compelled to retreat (Will. Tyr. p. 895, 896, 1031). 
Abulfeda calls it Adsraat {Tab. Syr. 79). 

There are two ancient towns in Bashan which now 
claim the honor of being the representatives of Edrei. 
The one is called Edhra , and is situated on the south- 
west angle of the rocky district of Lejah, the Argob 
of the Hebrews, and the Trachonitis of the Greeks. 
The ruins of Edhra are among the most extensive in 
Hauran. The site is a strange one. It is a rocky 
promontory projecting from the Lejah [see Traciio- 
nitis], having an elevation of some thirty feet above 
the plain, which spreads out beyond it smooth as a sea, 
and of unrivalled fertility. The ruins are nearly three 
miles in circuit, and have a strange, v'ild look, rising 
lip in black shattered masses from the midst of black 
rocks. A number of the ancient houses still remain, 
though half buried beneath heaps of more modern 
ruins. Their walls, roofs, and doors are all of stone ; 
they are low, massive, and simple in plan ; and they 
bear the marks of the most remote antiquity. Some 
of them are doubtless as old as the time of the Repha- 
im, and they are thus specimens of primeval architec- 
ture such as no other country could produce. At a 
later period Edhra v r as adorned with many public 
edifices, now mostly in ruins. A large church still 
stands at the northern end of the town. A Greek in- 
scription over the door informs us that it u f as original- 
ly a heathen temple, was converted into a church, and 
dedicated to St. George in A.D. 516. There are the 
avails of another church of St. Elias ; and in the centre 
of the town a cloistered quadrangle, which appears to 
have been at first attached to a forum, and afterwards 
to a cathedral. On the public buildings and private 
houses are many Greek inscriptions. Some w r ere cop- 
ied by Burckhnrdt, and some b} r Rev. J. L. Porter. 
At the time of the visit of the latter in 1854 the popu- 
lation amounted to about fifty families, of which some 
eight or ten were Christian, and the rest Mohamme- 
dan. A full account of the history and antiquities of 
Edrei is given in Porter’s Five Years in Damascus, ii, 
220 sq., and Handbook for Syria and Palestine , p. 532 
sq. ; also in his Giant Cities of Bashan, p. 94 sq. See 
also Btirekhardt’s Tram Is in Syria, p. 57 sq. ; Buck- 
ingham’s ITavels amour/ the A rab Tribes, p. 274. 

The other place with which Edrei has been identi- 
fied is called Dera, and stands in a shallow v’adv in 
the open plain of Hauran, about fourteen miles south 
of Edhra. The follow ing reasons have been assigned 
in favor of the other site. 1. The name Edrei, which 
signifies “strength,” and the fact that it w r as the cap- 
ital of an ancient and warlike nation, naturally lead 
to the belief that it was a very strong city. Ancient 
cities were always, when possible, built on the tops of 
hills, or in rocky fastnesses, so as to be easily defend- 
ed. Edhra stands on a ridge of jagged rocks, and is 
so encompassed with cliffs and defiles as to be almost 
inaccessible. Dera, on the contrary, is in the open 
plain, and has no traces of old fortifications (G. Robin- 
son, Travels in Palestine, ii, 168). It is difficult to be- 
lieve that the warlike Rephaim would have erected a 
royal city in such a position. 2. Dera lias neither 
well nor fountain to attract ancient colonists to an un- 
defended site. Its supply of water was brought by 
an aqueduct from a great distance (Ritter, Palest., und 
Syr. ii, 834). 3. The ruins of Edhra are more ancient, 

more important, and much more extensive than those 
of Dera. The dwellings of Edhra possess all the char- 
acteristics of remote antiquity — massive walls, stone 
roofs, stone doors. The monuments now existing 
seem to show that it must have been an important 


town from the time the Romans took possession of 
Bashan ; and that it, and not Dera, was the episcopal 
city of Adraa, which ranked next to Bostra (Keland 
Pal. p. 219, 223, 548). None of the buildings in the 
latter seem older than the Roman period (Dr. Smith, 
in Robinson’s Bib . Res. iii, App. p. 155, 1st ed.). On 
the other hand, the identification of Dera and Edrei 
can be traced back to Eusebius and Jerome, w ho say 
that Edrei was then called Adara (’A dapd), and was 
a noted city of Arabia, tw enty-four miles from Bostra 
{Onomast. s. v. ’E crSpatt, Esdrai). In another place 
they give the distance at twenty-five miles from Bos- 
tra and six from Aslitaroth {ib. s. v. ’A<rrapw3, Asta- 
roth, where the place in question is called 'Acpwa, 
Ader). Adara is laid down in the Peutinger Tables 
as here indicated (Reland, Palcest. p. 547 ; comp. Ptole- 
my, v, 17', 7). There can be no doubt that the city 
thus referred to is the modern Dera; and the state- 
ment of Eusebius is tco explicit to be set aside on the 
supposition that he has confounded the two sites in 
dispute. Moreover, it is improbable that the bounda- 
ries of Manasseh East extended so far as the locality 
of Edhra. Most modern geographers have therefore 
concluded that Dera marks the real site of Edrei (Be- 
laud, PctIresL p. 547 ; Ritter, Palest, und Syr. ii, 834 ; 
Burckhardt, Syria , p. 241 ; Buckingham, Arab Tribes, 
p. 168 ; Schwarz, however, declares for the other posi- 
tion, Palest, p. 222). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

2. A fortified town of northern Palestine, allotted to 
the tribe of Naphtali, and situated near Kedesh and 
Hazor (Josh, xix, 37). About two miles south of Ke- 
desh is a conical rocky hill called Tell Khnraibeh, the 
“Tell of the ruin,” with some remains of ancient 
buildings on the summit and a rock-hewn tomb in its 
side. It is evidently an old site, and it may be that 
of the long-lost Edrei. The strength of the position, 
and its nearness to Kedesh, give probability to the 
supposition. I)r. Robinson ( Bill . Res. iii, 365) sug- 
gests the identity of Tell Khnraibeh with Hazor (q. 
v.). For the objections to this theory, see Porter’s 
Handbook for Syria and Palestine , p. 442. — Smith, s. v. 

Education, Hebrew 7 . Although nothing is more 
carefully inculcated in the Law than the duty of par- 
ents to teach their children its precepts and principles 
(Exod. xii, 26; xiii, 8, 14; Dent, iv, 5, 9, 10; vi,2, 7, 20; 
xi, 19, 21; Acts xxii, 3; 2 Tim. iii, 15; Susanna, 3; 
Josephus, Ap. ii, 16, 17, 25), yet there is little trace 
among the Hebrews in earlier times of education in 
any other subjects. The wisdom, therefore, and in- 
struction, of which so much is said in the book of Prov- 
erbs, is to be understood chiefly of moral and religious 
discipline, imparted, according to the direction of the 
Law 7 , by the teaching and under the example of par- 
ents (Prov. i, 2, 8 ; ii, 2, 10 ; iv, 1, 7, 20 ; viii, 1 ; ix, 1, 
10 ; xii, 1 ; xvi, 22 ; xvii, 24 ; xxxi). Implicit excep- 
tions to this statement may perhaps be found in the 
instances of Moses himself, who was brought up in all 
Egyptian learning (Acts vii, 22); of the writer of the 
book of Job, who was evidently well versed in natural 
history and in the astronomy of the da}* (Job xxxviii, 
31 ; xxxix, xl, xii) ; of Daniel and his companions in 
captivity (Dan. i, 4, 17 ; and, above all, in the intellec- 
tual gifts and acquirements of Solomon, w r hich w*ere 
even more renowned than his political greatness (1 
Kings iv, 29, 34 ; x, 1-9; 2 Chron. ix, 1 8), and the 
memory of which has, with much exaggeration, been 
widely preserved in Oriental tradition. The state- 
ment made above may, however, in all probability, be 
taken as representing the chief aim of ordinary He- 
brew education, both at the time when the Law was 
best observed, and also when, after periods of national 
decline from the Mosaic standard, attempts were made 
by nionarchs, as Jehoshaphat or Josiah, or by prophets, 
as Elijah or Isaiah, to enforce, or at least to inculcate 
reform in the moral condition of the people on the basis 
of that standard (2 Kings xvii, 13 ; xxii, 8-20; 2 Chron. 
xvii, 7, 9 ; 1 Kings xix, 14 ; Isa. i sq.). 


EDUCATION* 


62 


EDUCATION 


In later times the prophecies, and comments on ' 
them as ’well as on the earlier Scriptures, together 
with other subjects, were studied (Prol. to Ecclus., and 
Ecclus. xxxviii, 24, 20; xxxix, 1-11). St. Jerome 
adds that Jewish children were taught to say by heart 
the genealogies (Jerome on Titus, iii, 9 ; Calmet, Diet. ■ 
s. v. Gcncalogie). Parents were required to teach their 
children some trade, and he who failed to do so was said 
to be virtually teaching his child to steal (Mishna, Kid- 
dush. ii, 2, vol. iii, p. 413, Surenhus, ; Lightfoot, Chron. 
Temp, on Acts xviii, vol. ii, p. 79). 

The sect of the Essenes, though themselves abhor- 
ring marriage, were anxious to undertake, and careful 
in carrying out the education of children, but confined 
its subject matter chiefly to morals and the divine law 
(Josephus, War, ii, 8, 12 ; Philo, Quod omnis probus 
liber , ii, 458," ed. Mangey ; § 12, Tauehn.). 

Previous to the captivity, the chief depositaries of | 
learning were the schools or colleges, from which, in 
most eases (see Amos vii, 14), proceeded that succession 
of public teachers who, at various times, endeavored to 
reform the moral and religious conduct of both rulers 
and people. (See Wcrkmeister, De prima seholarum 
ap. Hebr. origine, Jesuit. 1735 ; Jlegcwisch, Ob bei den 
Alten ojfenti. Erziehung war, Altona, 1811.) In these 
schools the Law was probably the chief subject of in- 
struction ; the study of languages was little followed 
by any Jews till after the Captivity, but from that time j 
the number of Jews residing in foreign countries must 
have made the knowledge of foreign languages more 
common than before (sec Acts xxi, 37). From the | 
time of the outbreak of the last war with the Homans, 
parents were forbidden to instruct their children in 
Greek literature (Mishna, Sotah , c. ix, 15, vol. iii, p. j 
307, 303, Surenhus). Nor had it ever been generally 
pursued by the Jews (Qrigen, contra Celsum, ii, 34). 

Besides the prophetical schools, instruction was given 
by the priests in the Temple and elsewhere, but their 
subjects were doubtless exclusively concerned with re- 
ligion and worship (Lev. x, 11 ; Ezek. xliv, 23, 24; 1 
Chron. xxv, 7, 8 ; Mai. ii, 7). Those sovereigns who 
exhibited any anxiety for the maintenance of the re- I 
ligious element in the Jewish polity were conspicuous 
in enforcing the religious education of the people (2 
Chron. xvii, 7, 8, 9 ; xix, 5, 8, 11 ; 2 Kings xxiii, 2). 

From the time of the settlement in Canaan there 
must have been among the Jews persons skilled in 
writing and in accounts. Perhaps the neighborhood 
of the tribe of Zebulun to the commercial district of 
Phoenicia may have been the occasion of their reputa- 
tion in this respect. The “writers” of that tribe are l 
represented (Judg. v, 14) by the same word, "ISO, so- j 
pker', used in that passage of the levying of an army, 
or, perhaps, of a military officer (Gesenius, s. v.) as is 
applied to Ezra in reference to the Law (Ezra vii, 6) ; to ' 
Seraiah, David’s scribe or secretary (2 Sam. viii, 17) ; I 
to Shebna, scribe to Hezekiah (2 Kings xviii, 37) ; j 
Shemaiah (1 Chron. xxiv, (5); B.irnch, scribe to Jere- 
miah (Jer. xxxvi, 32), and others filling like offices at 
various times. The municipal officers of the kingdom, 
especially in the time of Solomon, must have required 
a staff of well-educated persons in their various depart- 
ments under the recorder, "PST"?, viazkir' , or historiog- 
rapher, whose business was to compile memorials of 
the reign (2 Sam. viii, 10; xx, 24 ; 2 Kings xviii, 18 ; 

2 Chron. xxxiv, 8). Learning, in the sense above men- 
tioned, was at all times highly esteemed, and educated 
persons were treated with great respect, and, accord- 
ing to Rabbinical tradition, were called “sons of the 
noble,” and allowed to take precedence of others at 
table (Lightfoot, Chr. Temp. Acts xvii, vol. ii, 79, fol. ; 
Jlor. Hebr. Luke xiv, 8-24 ; ii, 540). The same author- 
ity deplores the degeneracy of later times in. this re- 
spect (Mishna, Sotah , ix, 15, vol. iii, 308, Surenhus). 

To the schools of the propTiets succeedM, after the 
Captivity, the synagogues, which -were either them- 


selves used as schools, or had places uear them for that 
purpose. In most places there was at least one, and 
in Jerusalem, according to some, 394, according to oth- 
ers, 4G0 (Calmet, Diet. s. v. Ecoles). It was from these 
schools, and the doctrines of the various teachers pre- 
siding over them, of whom Gamaliel, Sannnai, and 
Ilillel were among the most famous, that many of 
those traditions and refinements proceeded by which 
the Law was in our Lord’s time encumbered and ob- 
scured, and which may be considered as represented, 
though in a highly exaggerated degree, by the Tal- 
mud. After the destruction of Jerusalem, colleges, in- 
heriting and probably enlarging the traditions of their 
predecessors, were maintained for a long time at Japh- 
ne in Galilee, at Lydda, at Tiberias, the most famous 
of all, and at Sepphoris. These schools, in process of 
time, were dispersed into other countries, and by de- 
grees destroyed. According to the principles laid 
down in the Mishna, boys at five years of age were to 
begin the Scriptures, at ten the Mishna, at thirteen 
they became subject to the whole Law (see Luke ii, 
40), at fifteen they entered the Gemara (Mishna, Pirlc. 
Ab. iv, 20; v, 21, vol. iv, p. 400, 482, 480, Surenhus.). 
Teachers were treated with great respect, and both 
pupils and teachers were exhorted to respect each oth- 
er. Physical science formed part of the course of in- 
struction (ib. iii, 18). Unmarried men and women 
were not allowed to be teachers of boys (Mishna, Kid- 
dush. iv, 13, vol. iii, p. 883). In the schools the Rab- 
bins sat on raised seats, and the scholars, according to 
their age, sat on benches below or on the ground (Light- 
foot on Luke ii, 40 ; Philo, nt sup. 12, ii, 458, Mangey). 

Of female education we have little account in Scrip- 
ture, but it is clear that the prophetical schools included 
■within their scope the instruction of females, who were 
occasionally invested with authority similar to that of 
the prophets themselves (Judg. iv, 4; 2 Kings xxii, 
14). Needlework formed a large, but by no means the 
only subject of instruction imparted to females, whose 
position in society and in the household must by no 
means be considered as represented in modern Oriental 
— including Mohammedan — usage (see Prow xxi, 10, 
20; Hist, of Sus. 3; Luke viii, 2, 3; x, 39; Acts xiii, 
50; 2 Tim. i, 5). 

Among modern Mohammedans, education, even of 
boys, is of a most elementary kind, and of females still 
more limited. In one respect it may be considered as 
the likeness or the caricature of the Jewish system, 
viz. that besides the most common rules of arithmetic, 
the Koran is made the staple, if not the only subject of 
instruction. In Oriental schools, both Jewish and Mo- 
hammedan, the lessons are written by each scholar 
with chalk on tablets, which are cleaned for a fresh 
lesson. All rceitc their lessons together aloud; faults 
are usually punished by stripes on the feet. Female 
children are, among Mohammedans, seldom taught to 
read or write. A few chapters of the Koran are learn- 
ed by heart, and in some schools they are taught em- 
broidery and needlework. In Persia there are many 
public schools and colleges, but the children of the 
wealthier parents are mostly taught at home. The 
Koran forms the staple of instruction, being regarded 
as the model not only of doctrine, but of style, and the 
text-book of all science. In the colleges, however, 
mathematics are taught to some extent (Norberg, Opusc. 
ii, 144 sq. ; Shaw, Travels , p. 194; Rauwolff, Travels , 
vii, 00; Burekliardt, Syria, p. 320; Travels in Arabia, 
i, 275 ; Porter, Damascus, ii, 95 ; Lane, Mod. Egypt, i, 
39, 93 ; Englishw. in. Eg. ii, 28, 31 ; Well steel, Arabia, ii, 
0, 395; Chardin, Voyages, iv, 224, Langles ; Olearius, 
Travels, p. 214, 215; Pietro della Valle, Yiaggi, ii, 188). 
— Smith, s. v. On the subject generally, see Jalin, 
fiibl. A rch. § 100, 100 ; TTrsini, Antiquitt. Hebr. scholast. 
acad. (llafii. 1702 ; also in Ugolini Thesanr. xxi); Du- 
mor, De scholis et academ vett. Hebr. (Vs irceb. 1782 ; un- 
critical) ; Purmann, De re scholastica Judevor. (Frcf. 
1779) ; Seiferheld, in Beyscklag’s Sylloge var. opusc . i, 


EDTOIIA 


63 


EDWARDS 


582 sq. ; Wolf, Bill. Ilebr. ii, 917 sq. ; Hartmann, T7 r- 
bind. des A . T. mit den Xeuen , p.377 sq. ; Gfriirer, Gesck. 
u. Crchristentk. I, i, 109 sq.; Beer, Skizzen einer Gesch. 
der Erzichung u. des Enter r. bei den Israelilen (Prague, 
1832 ; a superficial work). See School. 

Education for the Ministry. See Ministry; 
Theological Education. 

Edumia, a plaee thus described by Eusebius and 
Jerome (in the Onomasticon , s. v. ’E oovpia, Edomia) : 
“of the tribe of Benjamin ; and there is still a village 
Eduma, ’ Ecoi'/id , in Aerabatine, about twelve miles 
east of Neapolis.” From this language, Leelere (not. 
in loe.) inters that Adummim is meant; but this lay 
farther south. Van de Velde finds the locality in the 
modern village Daumeh , S.E. of Nablons (Xurrut. ii, 
308) ; a coincidence first pointed out by Robinson (Re- 
searches, iii, 103), as lying in the prescribed position, 
although not within the tribe of Benjamin (apparently 
a conjecture of Euseb.). It is situated on the table- 
land overlooking the Jordan valley, and contains a 
fountain and ancient sepulchres in the outskirts (Rob- 
inson, Later Researches , p. 292, 293). 

E'duth edutli , precept, as it is often ren- 

dered ; Sept, and Vulg. translate accordingly) stands 
(besides being translated elsewhere in its ordinary ac- 
ceptation) as a part (in connection with “Shushan” 
either sing, or plur.) of the inscription of certain poet- 
ical compositions, indicating that the contents were of 
a revealed or saered character (title of Psa. lx, lxxx). 
See SlIOSIIANNIM. 

Edward III, Confessor, king of the Anglo-Sax- 
ons, was born in Oxfordshire in 1004, and died Jan. 5, 
10GG. lie was canonized by Pope Alexander III, and 
styled “Confessor” in the bull of canonization. The 
only ground for this was the fact that when, in 1044, 
he married Editha, daughter of earl Godwin, he in- 
formed her that he would make her his queen, but that 
she should not share his bed. lie kept this unnatural 
vow, and for it, in spite of a licentious life, he was 
sainted by the Pope. 

Edward VI, king of England, son of Henry VIII 
by his wife Jane Seymour, was born at Hampton 
Court, October 12,1537. lie is mentioned here rather 
for the great events of his reign than for his personal 
qualities, though these were excellent. lie was 
crowned in 1547, and his uncle, Edward Seymour, af- 
ter wards earl of Somerset, became Protector of the 
kingdom. “ He was attached to the principles of the 
Reformation, and during his rule great strides were 
made towards the establishment of Protestantism in 
England. The images were removed from the ehureh- 
es ; refractory Roman Catholic bishops were imprison- 
ed ; the laity were . allowed the cup at the ceremony of 
the Lord’s Supper ; all ecclesiastical processes were 
ordered to run in the king's name ; Henry’s famous 
six articles (known as the Bloody Statute) were re- 
pealed ; a new service-book, compiled by Cranmer and 
Ridley, assisted by eleven other divines, was drawn 
up, and ordered to be used, and is known as the First 
Prayer-book of Edward VI (see Common Prayer- 
rook.) ; and the celibacy of the clergy ceased to be ob- 
ligatory*’ (Chambers, Encyclopedia, s. v.). The young 
king was in full sympathy with the Reformation ; but 
his plans, and those of his counsellors, were arrested 
by his death, July G, 1553. 

Edwards, Bela Bates, D.D., was born in South- 
ampton, Mass., July 4, 1802, and graduated at Am- 
herst College in 1824, and at Andover Theological 
Seminary in 1830. He served as a tutor in Amherst 
College during the years 1827-28, and as assistant 
secretary of the American Education Society during 
the years 1828-33. In 1837 he was ordained as a 
minister of the Gospel, and was also appointed pro- 
fessor of Hebrew" in Andover Theological Seminar}' - ; 
and in 1848 he -was elected associate professor of sa- 


[ cred literature, as successor of Professor Moses Stuart, 
in the same institution. From 1828 to 1842 he edited 
the American Quarterly Register. He established in 
1833 the American Quarterly Observer. After publish- 
ing two volumes of it, he united it with the Biblical 
Repository, and was sole editor of the combined peri- 
odicals from January, 1S35, to January, 1838. From 
1844 to 1852 he w'as the senior editor of the Libliotluca 
Sacra. For twenty-three years he was employed in 
* superintending periodical literature, and, with the as- 
sistance of several associates, has left thirty-one oc- 
tavo volumes as the monuments of his enterprise and 
industry in this department of labor. lie also edited 
several duodecimo volumes, among which are the 
Eclectic Reader, the Biography of Self-taught Men , the 
Memoir of Henry Martyn , to which he prefixed an In- 
troductory Essay. He published many articles in the 
religious newspapers, various pamphlets, and impor- 
tant parts of several volumes, such as the German Se- 
lections, by professors Edwards and Park ; Classical 
Studies, by professors Edwards, Sears, anrl Felton. He 
injured his constitution by his unremitting toils, and 
w'as compelled to make the tour of Europe for his 
health, and to spend two winters in the South. He 
died at Athens, Ga., April 20, 1852, in the fiftieth year 
of his age. He w'as distinguished not only for his po- 
etic sentiment, large erudition, soundness of judg- 
ment, skill as an instructor, and eloquence as a 
preacher, but also for his delicacy of taste, his tender 
sensibilities, and, above all, his deep, earnest, and uni- 
form piety. Some of his discourses and essays, w ith 
a memoir of his life by E. A. Park, were publbhed in 
Boston in 1853 in two duodecimo volumes. (E. A. P.) 

Edwards, John, D.D., one of the strongest Cal- 
vinistie divines the. Church of England has produced. 
He w'as born at Hertford Feb. 2G, 1G39, and was edu- 
cated at Merchant-Taylor’s School, London. In 1G53 
he entered St. John’s College, Cambridge, where he 
became scholar and fellow. He was minister of Trin- 
ity Church, Cambridge, from 1GG4 to about 1G7G, when 
he was made reetor of St. Peter’s, Colchester. He re- 
turned to Cambridge in 1G79, and there wrote indus- 
triously on controversial theology. lie died April 1G, 
1716. “ It may be questioned whether, since the days 

of Calvin himself, there has existed a more decided 
Calvinist than Dr. Edw r ards. He lias been termed the 
Paul, the Augustine, the Bradwardine, the Calvin of 
his age. Such was his abhorrence of Arminianism 
that he contended, with the old Puritans, that there is 
a close connection between it and popery.” His prin- 
cipal writings are, Theologia reformat a, or the Body 
and Substance of the Christian Religion, comprised in 
distinct Discourses or Treatises upon the Apostles' Creed, 
the Lord's Prayer, and the Ten Commandments (Loud. 
1713-2G, 3 vols. fol.) : — A compete History or Survey 
of all the Dispensations or Methods of Religion (London, 
1G99, 2 vols. 8vo) : — The Arminian Doctrines rondo mn- 
ed by the Scriptures (Lond. 1711, 8v<>) : — Authority of 
the O. and A r . T. (Lond. 1693, 3 vols. 8vo) : — Exercita- 
tions, critical , theological , etc., on important jdaces in the 
O. and X. T. (Lond. 1702, 8vo) : — Socinianism unmask- 
ed (Lond. 1G97, 8vo) : — The Doctrine of Faith and Jus- 
tification (Lond. 1708, 8vo). — Tones, Christ. Biography , 
s. v. ; Kippis, Biographia Britannica , vol. v. 

Edwards, Jonathan, w as born at East Windsor, 
Conn., on the 5th of October, 1703. His great-great- 
grandfather on the paternal side was the Rev. Richard 
Edwards, a clergyman in London in the time of queen 
Elizabeth. His great-grandfather, William Edwards, 
was horn in England, eame to America about the 
year 1G40, and w-as an honorable trader in Hartford, 
Conn. Ilis grandfather, Richard Edwards, was born 
at Hartford, and spent his life there as a respectable 
and wealthy merchant. Ilis father, Rev. Timothy 
Edwards, was born in Hartford May 14. 1GG9. He 
entered Harvard College in 1687, “and received the 


EDWARDS 


64 


EDWARDS 


two degrees of Bachelor and Master of Arts on the 
same day, July 4, 1001 , one in the morning and the 
other in the afternoon, ‘an uncommon mark of respect 
paid to his extraordinary proficienc}” in learning.’” 
He was ordained pastor of the church at East Windsor 
in May, 1004. In 1711 lie was appointed, by the Leg- 
islature of Connecticut, chaplain of the troops sent on 
an important expedition to Canada. lie was distin- 
guished for his scholarship, devoutness, and general 
weight of character. He generally preached extem- 
pore, and until he had passed his seventieth year lie did 
not often write the heads of his discourses. He lived 
to enjoy the fame of his son, and died January 27, 1758. 
On the maternal side, the great-grandfather of Presi- 
dent Edwards was Anthony Stoddard, Esq., who emi- 
grated from the west of England to Boston, and was a 
member of the General Court from 1GG5 to 1G84. The 
grandfather of Edwards was the Lev. Solomon Stod- 
dard, of Northampton, Mass., one of the most erudite 
and powerful clergymen of New England. Edwards’s 
mother was Esther, the second child of the Northamp- 
ton pastor, a lady of excellent education and rare 
strength of character. 

The history of President Edwards cannot be fully 
understood without considering that both on the pa- 
ternal and maternal side he was allied with families 
belonging to the ecclesiastical aristocracy of New 
England. He was an only son, and had ten sisters, 
some of whom became the wives of eminent men. He 
was trained by his father and his four eldest sisters 
(all of w hom were proficients in learning) for Yale 
College, which he entered in 171G, just before he was 
thirteen years of age. During the next year his fa- 
vorite study was Locke on the Human Understanding. 
“Taking that book into his hand upon some occasion 
not long before his death, he said to some of his select 
friends who were then with him, that he was beyond 
expression entertained and pleased with it when he 
read it in his youth at college; that he w*as as much 
engaged, and had more satisfaction and pleasure in 
studying it, than the most greedy miser in gathering 
up handfuls of silver and gold from some new-discov- 
ered treasure.” When about twelve years of age he 
wrote a paper which indicates that he had been thor- 
oughly interested in the question of Materialism. At 
about the same age lie composed some remarkable pa- 
pers on questions in natural philosophy. Having dis- 
tinguished himself at college as an acute thinker, and 
also as an impassioned writer, he took his Bachelor’s 
degree in 1720, and delivered the “ salutatory, which 
was also the valedictory oration.” 

When he w' r as a hoy, probably about the age of sev- 
en or eight years, lie began to develop his religious 
character. He writes: “1 w*as then very much af- 
fected for man}’’ months, and concerned about the 
things of religion and my soul’s salvation, and w r as 
abundant in religious duties. I used to pray five 
times a day in secret, and to spend much time in re- 
ligious conversation with other boys, and used to meet 
with them to pray together. I experienced 1 know 
not w hat kind of delight in religion. I, w’itli some of 
my schoolmates, joined together and built a booth in a 
swamp, in a very retired spot, for a place of pra}*er ; 
and, besides, I had particular secret places of my own 
in the woods w here I used to retire 1 >}” myself, and 
was from time to time much affected. My affections 
seemed to be lively and easily moved, and I seemed to 
be in my element when engaged in religious duties.” 
Iielleeting on these fervid emotions, Edwards after- 
ward regarded them as no signs of genuine piety. 
He was keen in his analysis of character, and was 
wont to encourage, not only in others, but also in him- 
self, the habit of severe self-examination, and of jeal- 
ous watchfulness against the influence of self-love. 
Although from his cnrlie.st childhood he had* been duti- 
ful, docile, and exeniplarvGn his outward demeanor, 
yet he writes concerning his boyhood and youth ; “ I 


w r as at times very uneasy, especially towards the lat- 
ter part of my time at college, when it pleased God to 
seize me with a pleurisy, in w hich he brought me nigh 
to the grave, and shook me over the pit of hell. And 
yet it was not long after my recovery before I fell 
again into my old ways of sin. But God would not 
suffer me to go on with any quietness. I had great 
and violent inward struggles, till, after many conflicts 
w'ith wicked inclinations, repeated resolutions, and 
bonds that I laid myself under by a kind of vow r s to 
God, I was brought wholly to break oft' all former 
wicked ways, and all ways of known outward sin, and 
to apply myself to seek salvation, and practice many 
religious duties, hut without that kind of affection and 
delight which I had formerly experienced.” With 
his characteristic fidelity in scrutinizing his motives, 
he looked with distrust on his seeking the Lord after 
this “miserable manner, which,” he says, “has made 
me sometimes since to question whether it ever issued 
in that which was saving, being ready to doubt w heth- 
er such miserable seeking ever succeeded.” At length, 
however, but precisely at what period he does not state, 
he began to entertain an abiding confidence in his hav- 
ing been regenerated by the Holy Ghost. In the po- 
etic and fervid style which often characterizes his 
writings, he says ; “I began to have a new kind of 
apprehensions and ideas of Christ, and the work of re- 
demption, and the glorious way of salvation by him. 
This I know not how to express otherwise than by a 
calm, sweet abstraction of soul from all the concerns 
of this world, and sometimes a kind of vision, or fixed 
ideas and imaginations of being alone in the mountains 
or some solitary wilderness, far from all mankind, 
sweetly conversing w ith Christ, and rapt and swallow- 
ed up in God.” On one occasion “1 walked abroad 
alone in a solitar}’ place in m 3 * father's pasture for con- 
templation. As I w’as walking there, and looking upon 
the sk}” and clouds, there came into inv mind so sweet 
a sense of the glorious majesty and grace of God as I 
know not how* to express. 1 seemed to sec them both 
in a sweet conjunction, majesty and meekness joined 
together; it was a sw*eet, and gentle, and lioh* mnjes- 
t} r , and also a majestic meekness, an aw*ful sweetness, 
a high, and great, and hoty gentleness. After this 
my sense of divine things gradual!}” increased, and be- 
came more and more lively, and had more of that in- 
ward sw*ectness. The appearance of even* thing was 
altered; there seemed to be, as it were, a calm, sweet 
cast or appearance of divine glory in almost every 
thing. God's excellency, his wisdom, his purity, and 
love, seemed to appear in even* tiling — in the sun, 
moon, and stars; in the clouds and blue sky; in the 
grass, flow*ers, trees; in the water and all nature — 
which used greatly to fix my mind. 1 often used to 
sit and view the moon for a long time, and in the day 
spent much of 1113 * time in view ing the clouds and sky, 
to behold the sw eet glory of God in these things, in 
the mean time singing forth w*:th a low voice 1113 * con- 
templations of the Creator and Kedcemer, and scares 
an}* thing in all the works of nature w’as so sweet to 
me as thunder and lightning; formerly nothing had 
been so terrible to me. Before, I used to be uncom- 
mon]}” terrified with thunder, and to be struck with 
terror when I saw* a thunder-storm rising ; but now*, on 
the contrary, it rejoiced me. 1 felt God, if I may so 
speak, at the first appearance of a thunder-storm, and 
used to take the opportunity at such times to fix my- 
self in order to view the clouds, and see the lightnings 
play, and hear the majestic and aw’ful voice of God’s 
thunder, which oftentimes w*as exceeding!}” entertain- 
ing, leading me to sweet contemplations of my great 
and glorious God. While thus engaged it alwa }”9 
seemed natural for me to sing or chant forth m} r med- 
itations, or to speak my thoughts in soliloquies with a 
singing voice.” 

The sharpness of his intellect, the activity of his 
imagination, the liveliness of his sensibilities, and the 


EDWARDS 


65 


EDWARDS 


depth of his piety, were regarded as signs of his being 
called of God to the ministry of the Gospel. Having 
been a resident scholar nearly two years at Yale Col- 
lege after his graduation, and having pursued his the- 
ological studies during that period, he was “approba- 
ted” as a preacher in June or July, 1722, several 
months before he was nineteen years of age. From 
August, 1722, until April, 1723, he preached to a small 
Presbyterian church in New York city. His eloquence 
fascinated his hearers, but he felt compelled to decline 
their urgent invitations to become their pastor. In 
his solitary walks along the silent banks of the Hudson 
he learned more and more of “the bottomless depths 
of secret corruption and deceit” belonging to his heart, 
and of the beauty and amiableness of true holiness. 

“ Holiness, as I then wrote down some of my contem- 
plations on it, appeared to me to be of a sweet, pleas- 
ant, charming, serene, calm nature, which brought an 
inexpressible purity, brightness, peacefulness, and rav- 
ishment to the soul. In other words, that it made the 
soul like a field or garden of God, with all manner of 
pleasant flowers, enjoying a sweet calm, and the gentle, 
vivifying beams of the sun. The soul of a true Chris- 
tian, as I then wrote my meditations, appeared like 
such a little white flower as wc see in the spring of the 
year, low and humble on the ground, opening its bos- 
om to receive the pleasant beams of the sun’s glory; 
rejoicing, as it were, in a calm rapture ; diffusing 
around a sweet fragrancy; standing peacefully and 
lovingly in the midst of other flowers round about, all 
in like manner opening their bosoms to drink in the 
light of the sun.” It was during his residence in New 
York that he wrote the first thirty-four of his well- 
known “Resolutions” for the government of his life. 

In September, 1723, he was called to a tutorship in 
Yale College. Having passed the preceding winter 
and spring in severe study at the college, he entered 
on his tutorship in June, 3724, and left it in September, 
172G. After having declined various invitations to 
take the oversight of churches, he was ordained Febru- 
ary 15, 1727, as pastor of the church in Northampton, 
a colleague with his celebrated grandfather, Solomon 
Stoddard. He rose at once into eminence as a preach- 
er, especially as a preacher of the divine law, of the 
divine sovereignty, of man’s entire sinfulness by na- 
ture, of justification by faith, and of eternal punish- 
ment. He often spoke extempore; he seldom made a 
gesture; his voice was not commanding; his power 
was that of deep thought and strong feeling. Dr. 
Trumbull says that when Mr. Edwards was preaching 
at Enfield, Conn., “there was such a breathing of dis- 
tress and weeping that the preacher was obliged to 
speak to the people and desire silence that he might be 
heard.” A gentleman remarked to President Dwight 
that when, in his youth, he heard Mr. Edwards describe 
the day of judgment, he fully supposed that immediate- , 
ly at the close of the sermon “the Judge would de- 
scend, and the final separation take place.” During 
the delivers' of one of his most overwhelming discourses 
in the pulpit of a minister unused to such power, this 
minister is said to have forgotten himself so far as to 
pull the preacher by the coat, and try to stay the tor- 
rent of such appalling eloquence by the question, “Mr. 
Edwards ! Mr, Edwards ! is not God a merciful Be- 
ing?” 

In February, 1729, in consequence of the death of 
Mr. Stoddard, the entire charge of the congregation at 
Northampton was devolved on Mr. Edwards. In 1734 
and 1735 occurred a remarkable “awakening” of re- 
ligious feeling in his parish ; another occurred in 1740, 
at which period he became a bosom friend of George 
AVhitefiekl. During both these developments of re- 
ligious activity he preached with a force which over- 
awed his hearers. While his parochial labors were 
multifarious and earnest, he studied the phenomena of 
the revival with the keenness of a philosopher, and 
thev prompted him to write some of his most acute I 
III.— E 


disquisitions. Indeed, nearly all the works which he 
published during his ministry at Northampton indicate 
the degree in which he labored for the promotion or 
the regulation of those religious “awakenings” for 
which his ministry -was distinguished. Some of these 
works are merely sermons, others are larger treatises. 
They bear the following titles : God glorified in Man's 
Dependence (1731) : — A divine and supernatural Light 
imparted to the Soul by the Spirit of God (1734 ; a ser- 
mon noted for its spiritual philosophy): — Curse ye 
Meroz (1735): — A faith fid Narrative of the surprising 
I York of God in the Conversion of many hundred Souls 
in Northampton, etc. (London, 1736) : — Five Discourses 
prefixed to the American Edition of this Narrative 
(1738) : — Sinners in the Hands of an angry God (1741 ; 
one of his most terrific sermons) : — Sorroios of the be- 
reaved sjjread before Jesus (1741): — Distinguishing 
Marls of a I York of the true Spirit (1741): — Thoughts 
on the Revival in New England , etc. (1712): — The 
Watchman's Duty and Account (1743): — The true Ex- 
cellency of a Gospel Minister (1744): — .1 Treatise con- 
cerning religious A ffections (1745 ; one of his most spir- 
itual and analytical works): — An humble Attempt to 
promote explieit Agreement and, visible Union among 
God's People in extraordinary Prayer (1746) : — True 
Saints , when absent from the Body, present icith the Lord 
(1747) : — God's awful Judgments in breaking the strong 
Rods of the Community (1748) : — Life and Diary of the 
Rev. David Brainerd (1749; a volume which exerted a 
decisive influence on Henry Martyn, and has affected 
the missionary spirit of the English as well as Ameri- 
can churches) : — Christ the Example of Gospel Ministers 
(1749) : — Qualifications for full Communion in the risible 
Church (1749; a treatise of historical as well as theo- 
logical importance) : — Farewell Sermon to the People of 
Northampton (1750; called “the best farewell sermon 
ever written”). 

The last two publications suggest the most sorrow- 
ful event of President Edwards’s life. He was dis- 
missed from his Northampton pastorate on the 2 2d of 
June, 1750. As early as 1744 he had offended many, 
and among them some of the most influential families 
in his congregation, by certain stringent measures 
which he adopted in regard to alleged immoralities 
prevalent at Northampton. The whole parish was 
shaken by his resolute and uncompromising reproofs, 
and was predisposed to resist any subsequent innova- 
tion which he might make. His grandfather, Mr. 
Stoddard, had favored the principle that unconverted 
persons who are not immoral have a right to partake 
of the Lord’s Supper. The authoritative influence of 
Mr. Stoddard had induced not only the Northampton 
Church, but also many other churches, to adopt that 
principle. Mr. Edwards, after prolonged deliberation, 
opposed it. The entire community was aroused by 
his boldness in controverting the teachings of a man 
like Solomon Stoddard, “whose word v r as law.” Af- 
ter a prolonged and earnest controversy, he was eject- 
ed from the office -which lie had adorned for more than 
twenty-three years. He never saw occasion to change 
the opinions which were so obnoxious to his people ; 
and two years after his dismission he published a -work 
entitled Misrepresentation corrected and Truth vindica- 
ted in a Reply to Mr. Solomon Williams's Book on Qual- 
ifications for Communion ; to which is added a Letter 
from Mr. Edwards to his late Flock at Northampton 
(1752). After his death, and after a disastrous con- 
troversy through the land, his principles prevailed 
among the evangelical churches. 

At the present day, when the dismission of pastors 
is so frequent, we cannot easily imagine the mortifica- 
tion and injury which Edwards suffered in conse- 
quence of his difficulties with his parish, lie was in 
his forty-seventh year, and had accumulated no prop- 
erty for the support of his large and expensive family. 
He w r as compelled to receive pecuniary aid from his 
! friends in remote parts of this country and in Great 


EDWARDS 


CG 


EDWARDS 


Britain. His wife was a descendant from the earls of 
Kingston, and was a lady of rare accomplishments. 
The description which he wrote of her in her girlhood 
was pronounced by Dr. Chalmers to be one of the most 
beautiful compositions in the language. He was mar- 
ried to her on the 27th of July, 1727, and at the time 
of his dismission, his eldest son, afterwards judge Tim- 
othy Edwards, was about twelve years of age ; his 
second son, afterwards Dr. Jonathan Edwards, was 
about five years of age; and bis youngest son, after- 
wards judge Pierpont Edwards, was an infant of two 
or three months; his third daughter, afterwards the 
mother of Aaron Burr, was in her eighteenth year; 
and his fourth daughter, afterwards the mother of 
president Timothy Dwight, was in her sixteenth year, 
lie had a family of three sons and seven daughters — 
another daughter, Jerusha, having died three years 
before his dismission. She was betrothed to David 
Brainerd, who had been a cherished inmate of her fa- 
ther’s family. 

In July, 1751, about a year after bis dismission, Ed- 
wards was installed pastor of the small Congregational 
church in Stockbridge, Mass., and missionary of tbe 
Housatonic tribe of Indians at that place. lie preach- 
ed extemporaneously to the Indians through an inter- 
preter. in this uncultivated wilderness he was sadly 
afflicted with the fever and ague, and other disorders 
incident to the new settlements. He published a 
characteristic sermon in 1752, entitled True Grace dis- 
tinguished from the Experience of Devils . In 1754 he 
published the most celebrated of bis works — his Essay 
on the Freedom of the Will. Of this essay there are 
conflicting interpretations. One school of interpreters 
contend that he believed in a literal inability of the 
soul to act otherwise than it does act ; another school 
contend that he did not believe in an inability which 
is natural and literal , but only in one which is moral , 
figurative, “ an inability improperly so called.” One 
school contend . that he believed liberty to consist in 
the mere power of doing what the soul has previously 
willed, of outwardly executing what the soul has an- 
tecedently chosen ; another school contend that lie 
believed liberty to consist in the power of electing 
either of two or more objects — such a power that men 
are not “ at all hindered by any fatal necessity from 
doing, and even willing and choosing as they please, 
with full freedom ; yea, with the highest kind of lib- 
erty that ever was thought of, or that ever could pos- 
sibly enter into the heart of any man to conceive” 
(Letter to a Scotch theologian). One school regard 
Edwards as agreeing with those Calvinists who sup- 
pose that “man, in his state of innocency, had freedom 
and power to do that which is good and well-pleasing 
to God, but yet mutably so that he might fall from it,” 
and that “man, by his fall into a state of sin, hath 
wholly lost all ability of will to any spiritual good ac- 
companying salvation ;” another school regard Ed- 
wards as denying this proposition in its literal , and 
affirming it only in its figurative sense, and believing 
that since the Fall man has all the freedom or liberty 
which be ever bad, or can be imagined to have. One 
class of critics suppose him to believe that motives are 
the efficient or the necessitating causes of volitions ; 
another class suppose him to believe that the volition 
is the result of motive as an occasion , rather than the 
necessary effect of motive as a cause. The latter class 
interpret his whole theory of the will in the light of 
the following remark of Edwards to the Scotch divine : 
“ On tbe contrary, I have largely declared that the 
connection between antecedent tilings and consequent 
ones, which takes place with regard to the acts of 
men’s wills, which is called moral necessity, is called 
by the name of necessity improperly, and that all such 
terms as must, cannot , impossible , unable , irresistible, 
unavoidable, invincible , etc., when applied here, are not 
applied in their proper signification, and are either 
used nonsensically and with perfect insignificance, or I 


in a sense quite diverse from their original and proper 
meaning, and their use in common speech, and that 
such a necessity as attends the acts of men’s wills is 
more properly called certainty than necessity, it being 
no other than the certain connection between t lie sub- 
ject and predicate of the proposition which affirms 
their existence.” It is asserted by many that Ed- 
wards makes no distinction between the will and the 
sensibilities ; it is thought by some that lie does mako 
a distinction ; the acts of the will being acts of moral 
choice , the processes of the sensibilities being what lie 
elsewhere terms “ natural or animal feelings or affec- 
tions 

During his virtual banishment to the Stockbridge 
wilderness lie wrote another of his more noted works, 
entitled The great Christian Doctrine of Original Sin 
defended, etc. The work was finished May 26, 1757, 
but was not published until 1758, several months after 
his death. Perhaps the distinctive peculiarity of this 
treatise is his defence of the doctrine that there was a 
constituted oneness or identity of Adam and his poster- 
ity ;” that they constituted, “as it were, one complex 
person, or one moral whole ;” that as a tree, when a 
century old, is one plant with the little sprout from 
which it grew — as the bod}' of a man, when forty years 
old, is one with the infant body from which it grew — • 
as the body and soul are one with each other, so there 
is a divine “constitution” according to which Adam 
and his posterity are “ looked upon as one , and dealt 
with accordingly;” that in his descendants “ the frst 
existing of a corrupt disposition is not to he looked upon 
as sin belonging to them, distinct from their participa- 
tion in Adam’s first sin ;” that “the guilt a man has 
ppon his soul at his first existence is one and simple, 
viz. the guilt of the original apostasy, the guilt of the 
sin by which the species first rebelled against God. 
This, and the guilt arising from the first corruption or 
depraved disposition of the heart, are not to be looked 
upon as two tilings distinctly imputed and charged 
upon men in the sight of God,” but are one and the 
same thing, according to an arbitrary constitution, like 
that which causes the continued identity of a river 
which is constantly flowing, or of an animal body 
which is constantly fluctuating. “When I call this 
an arbitrary constitution , I mean that it is a constitu- 
tion which depends on nothing but the divine will, 
which divine will depends on nothing but the divine 
wisdom .” During his retirement at Stockbridge, Ed- 
wards wrote his Dissertatim concerning the End for 
which God created the World, and also his Dissertatim 
concerning the Nature of true Virtue. On the former 
of these treatises he had expended much, and on the 
latter a life-long study. One class of his interpreters 
suppose that he wrote the first of these treatises with 
the design, and that the treatise has been followed 
with the result, of modifying the popular aspect of 
Calvinism, and of thereby removing some of the pop- 
ular objections to the system as formerly held. They 
suppose that he designed to make the sovereignty of 
God appear the more amiable by showing that it is in- 
tent on tiie highest interests of his creatures ; tiiat the 
glory of God and the well-being of the universe are 
one and the same thing, and tiierefore, when God is 
said to govern the universe for his own glory, he is 
also said to govern it for its own well-being. In the 
second of the two last-named treatises, a treatise 
which, like the first, and like many of his other essays, 
was designed to reconcile reason with faith — a treatise 
the rudiments of which were written in his boyhood, 
and are found scattered through many of his published 
works — he reduces all moral goodness to “the love of 
being in general,” and this love he considers an act of 
the will as distinct from “animal or natural feeling.” 
Those Calvinistic divines who believe that all the vir- 
tues, such as faith, justice, etc., are in their nature ac- 
tive, and are mere forms of benevolence, and that all 
sin is equally active, and is the elective preference of 


EDWARDS 


07 


EDWARDS 


an inferior above a superior good, appeal to Edwards’s 1 
Dissertation on Virtue as having given a marked im- 
pulse to what has been called by various names, such 
us the new, or the New England, or the Hopkinsian 
divinity. The two last-named dissertations were not 
published until 1788, thirty years after his death. In 
1761 eighteen of Edwards’s sermons were published ill 
a volume, to which was prefixed his memoir by Dr. 
Samuel Hopkins. In 1777 his celebrated History of 
Redemption , in 1788 a new volume of his sermons, in 
1789 another new volume of his sermons, in 1793 his 
Miscellaneous Observations on important Theological Sub- 
jects, in 1796 his Remarks on important Theological Con- 
troversies, were all published at Edinburgh, Scotland. ' 
Ilis published works were collected and printed in 
eight volumes at Worcester, Mass., under the editor- 
ship of Dr. Samuel Austin, in 1809, and have been re- 
published repeatedly in England and America. A 
larger edition of his writings, in ten volumes, including j 
a new memoir, and much new material, especially his 
Notes on the Bible , was published at New York in 1*29, 
under the editorial care of Itev. Dr. Sereno Edwards 
Dwight. Parts of this edition have been republished 
in England. In 1852, his work entitled Chanty and its 
Fruits was published for the first time, and more re- 
cently a volume of his writings has been printed in 
England, which has never been reprinted in America. 

One of most interesting aspects in which president 
Edwards may be viewed is that of his influence over 
Whitefield, Braincrd, and two of his theological pupils, 
Bellamy and Hopkins. Another is that of his influ- 
ence over European scholars and divines. Several of 
his treatises were published in Great Britain before 
they were published in America, and the estimate 
formed of him by Dr. Erskine, Dr. Chalmers, Robert 
Hall, Dugald Stewart, Sir Henry Moncrief, Sir James 
Mackintosh, Dr. Priestley, Dr. George Hill, Isaac Tay- 
lor, and others, is higher than that expressed by men 
of the same relative position in this country. It is a 
remarkable fact that, while living in a kind of exile as 
a missionary among the Indians at Stockbridge, he 
was invited to the presidency of the college at Prince- 
ton, New Jersey. lie was elected to the office on the 
2Gth of September, 1757. In his first response to the 
trustees he expressed his great surprise at their ap- 
pointment, and, among other reasons for declining it, 
he said, with his characteristic simplicity, “I have a 
constitution in many respects peculiarly unhappy, at- 
tended with flaccid solids, vapid, sizy, and scarce flu- 
ids, and a low tide of spirits, often occasioning a kind 
of childish weakness and contemptiblencss of speech, 
presence, and demeanor, with a disagreeable dulness 
and stiffness much unfitting me for conversation, but 
more especially for the government of a college.” lie 
was dismissed from his Stockbridge pastorate January 
4, 1758, after having labored in it six years and a half. 
He spent a part of January and all of February at 
Princeton, performing some duties at the college, but 
was not inaugurated until the 16th of February, 1758. 
lie was inoculated for the small-pox on the 23d of the 
same month ; and after the ordinary effects of the in- 
oculation had nearly subsided, a secondary fever su- 
pervened, and he died on the 22d of March, 1758. He 
had then resided at Princeton about nine weeks, and 
had been the inaugurated president of the college just 
five weeks. Ilis age was 54 years, 5 months, and 17 
days. His father died in his 89th year, only two 
months before him ; his son-in-law, president Burr, 
died in his 42d year, only six months before him ; his 
daughter, Mrs. President Burr, died in her 27th year, 
only sixteen days after him ; his wife died in her 49th 
year, only six months and ten days after him. The 
three last named are interred in the same burial- 
ground at Princeton. (E. A. P.) 

Edwards, Jonathan, D.I)., the second son and 
ninth child of the President whose history has been 
sketched in the preceding article, was bom at North- 


ampton, Mass., May 26th, 1745. Although each was 
the president of a college, yet, as the father was not a 
doctor of divinity, he is familiarly termed the Presi- 
dent, and the son is distinguished from him as the 
Doctor. In his early childhood young Edwards was 
afflicted with an ocular disease, and therefore did not 
learn to read at so early an age as his powers and in- 
stincts would have inclined him. In consequence also 
of his father's ecclesiastical troubles at Northampton, 
he was deprived of some important facilities for his ed- 
ucation. “When' I was but six years of age,” he 
writes in 1788, “my father removed with his family 
to Stockbridge, which at that time was inhabited by 
Indians almost solely, as there were in the town but 
twelve families of whites, or Anglo-Americans, and 
perhaps one hundred and fifty families of Indians. 
The Indians being the nearest neighbors, I constantly 
associated with them ; their boys were mj T daily school- 
mates and playfellows. Out of my father’s house I 
seldom heard any language spoken but the Indian. 
By these means I acquired the knowledge of that lan- 
guage, and a great facility in speaking it. It became 
more familiar to me than my mot her- tongue. I knew 
the names of some things in Indian that I did not 
know in English. Even all my thoughts ran in In- 
dian ; and, though the true pronunciation of the lan- 
guage is extremely difficult to all but themselves, they 
acknowledged that I had acquired it perfectly, which, 
as they said, had never been done before by any An- 
glo-American. On account of my skill in their lan- 
guage in general, I received from them many compli- 
ments applauding my superior wisdom. This skill in 
their language I have in a good measure retained to 
this day.” 

Although the pastor at Stockbridge was nominally 
the teacher of the Housatonnucks, yet, in fact, he often 
gave instruction to families of the Mohawks, Oneidas, 
and Tuscaroras, who had gone to his parish for the 
sake of its educational advantages. He was a patron 
and also an intimate companion of Gideon Hawley, a 
man highly revered as a preacher to the Indian tribes. 
The elder Edwards desired that his son Jonathan should 
be trained for a missionary among the aborigines, and 
he therefore sent the boy, not then eleven years old, 
to a settlement of the Oneida Indians on the banks of 
the Susquehanna. The faithful friend, Gideon Ilaw- 
lev, travelled with the boy, and took the charge of 
him, but, in consequence of the French and Indian war, 
was obliged to return with him, after a residence of 
about six months among the Oneidas. Young Ed- 
wards endeared himself to the Oneida tribe, and on 
one occasion, when they expected an attack from the 
French, the Indians took the boy upon their shoulders, 
and bore him many miles through the wilderness to a 
i place of safety. At that early age he exhibited the 
I traits which afterwards distinguished him — courage, 
fortitude, and perseverance. 'While travelling through 
the wilderness in ’the depths of winter he was some- 
times compelled to sleep on the ground in the open 
I air, and he endured the hardness as a good soldier. 
He spent the two years 1756, 1757, under the parental 
roof in Stockbridge, but in January, 1758, his father 
| removed to Princeton, and in October, 1758, both his 
father and mother were removed from the world, and 
thus, in his fourteenth } r ear, he was left an orphan. 
He had no pecuniary means for pursuing his educa- 
tion ; but, having received promises of aid lrom the 
friends of his parents, he entered the Grammar School 
at Princeton in February, 1760, was admitted to Prince- 
ton College in September, 17G1, and was graduated 
there in September, 1765. During the presidency and 
under the preaching of Dr. Finley, he became, as he 
thought, a true servant of Christ, and in September, 
1763, he became a member of the Church. After hav- 
in^ studied theology v T ith I)r. Joseph Bellamy, he w r as 
approbated as a preacher in October, 1766, by the 
Litchfield County Association. In 1767 he was ap- 


EDWARDS 


GS 


EDWARDS 


pointed to the office of tutor at Nassau Hall, and was 
continued in the office two years. He was also of- 
fered, but he declined to accept, the professorship of 
languages and logic in the same institution. lie had 
distinguished himself as a linguist and as a logician at 
Nassau Hall, and at a later day he received the doc- 
torate of divinity from that college. Thus in his ear- 
lier years he was honored by his Alma Mater as a man 
of uncommon promise, and in his maturer years as a 
man of uncommon attainments. His contemporaries 
speak of him as indefatigablv diligent while at college, 
and as ever afterwards ail eager aspirant for knowl- 
edge in its various branches. 

lie was also an instructive and sometimes an elo- 
quent preacher. Accordingly, he was invited to the 
pastorship of an important church in New Haven, 
Conn., and was ordained there Jan. 5, 1769. It is 
stated in his memoir, that the ordaining council were 
so intensely interested in his preparatory examination 
that they continued it for their own pleasure and profit 
several hours after the time which had been previous- 
ly appointed for the public exercises of the ordination. 
Several members of his church were advocates of the 
“half-way covenant;” he, like his father, was deci- 
dedly hostile to it. This divergence of views occa- 
sioned much trouble to him in his pastorate. The 
extravagances which had been connected with the 
“great awakening” in 1740-2 were followed by a dis- 
astrous reaction among the New England churches, 
and the ministry of Dr. Edwards was made in some 
degree uncomfortable by it. I lis pastorate was also 
disturbed by the demoralizing influences of the Revo- 
lutionary war. That war introduced a flood of errors 
among the people. Dangerous heresies were adopted 
by some members of his parish. The result of all 
these untoward events was that he was dismissed from 
liis office May 19, 1795, after having labored in it more 
than twenty-six years. The Connecticut Evangelical 
Magazine stated that the principal cause “of his dis- 
mission was the departure of some of his parishioners 
from their former faith, but the ostensible cause as- 
signed by the society was their inability to support a 
minister.” 

He had already acquired a great reputation as a 
philosopher and as a philanthropist. He was well 
known and much beloved by divines in Great Britain, 
with some of whom he maintained an active corre- 
spondence. Such a man could not long remain with- 
out some official relations. In January, 1796, he was 
installed pastor of the church in Colebrook, Conn. 
Here, in the bosom of an intelligent, affectionate, and 
confiding parish, he persevered in his rigorous system 
of study, and prepared himself for works which he did 
not live to execute. Having enjoyed his busy retreat 
a little more than three years, he was surprised by be- 
ing called in May, 1799, to the presidency of Union 
College, Schenectady, N. Y. After a prolonged ex- 
amination of his duty, he applied to an ecclesiastical 
council for their advice, and in accordance with their 
counsel he accepted the new office. lie entered on its 
duties in the summer of 1799, and was welcomed with 
unusual demonstrations of joy. Rev. I)r. Andrew 
Yates, who was associated with Dr. Edwards in the 
government of the college, says of him : “His disci- 
pline was mild and affectionately parental, and his re- 
quirements reasonable. Such a character for govern- 
ment in president Edwards was unexpected to some 
who professed to know his disposition, and had formed 
their opinions of him in this respect. It was there- 
fore the more noticed. There was ail apparent auster- 
ity and reserve in his manner, which no doubt arose 
from the retirement of study and from habits of close 
thought, and would leave such an impression after a 
slight acquaintance; but in his domestic intercourse, 
and with his intimate friends, while conscientiously 
strict and prompt in his duties, and while lie’ acted 
with decision, he was mild and affectionate. The i 


1 same spirit characterized his government of the col- 
lege. It was probably conducted with greater mild- 
ness and affection than would have been exercised 
had not the prevailing expectations of some intimated 
the danger of his erring on the side of severity. His 
pupils, like a well-regulated family under faithful dis- 
cipline, were respectfully attached to him.” 

On August 1, 1801, after an illness of about a fort- 
night, he died, at the age of fifty-six years, two months, 
and six days. “ The blood of Christ is ray only ground 
of hope” were among his last words. A highly eulo- 
gistic sermon was preached at his funeral in the Re- 
formed Dutch Church at Schenectady by his friend, 
Rev. Robert Smith, of Savannah. Dr. Edwards had 
been greatly affected by the loss of his first wife, who, 
in June, 1782, was drowned. He had also been be- 
reaved of one child ; but three of his children survived 
him. 

The influence of Dr. Edwards in the pulpit, although 
not equal to that of his father, was yet greater than 
might have been expected from his analytic habits. 
His eye was piercing, his whole manner was impress- 
; ive, his thoughts were clear and weight)', and his gen- 
eral character was itself a sermon. He was known to 
be honest, and a hearty lover of the truth as it is in 
Jesus. Although not a talker, in the superficial 
meaning of that phrase, yet he was powerful in con- 
versation with men of letters, and was a prince among 
j disputants ; therefore his influence over his thcologi- 
1 cal pupils was perhaps as important as his power in 
moulding the character of his parishioners. He in- 
structed many young men for the Christian ministry, 
and his influence is yet apparent ill the writings of 
some of them. One of these pupils was his nephew, 
j president Dwight, of Yale College, who was wont to 
speak of him with filial reverence ; another was Dr. 
Griffin, president of Williams College, who bore fre- 
quent testimony to the power of his teacher. A large 
part of Dr. Edwards’s influence arose from his inter- 
pretations of his father’s writings. He often said that 
he had spent his life on those writings, although, in 
“tact, he had a more various learning than belonged to 
liis father. He studied the published and the unpub- 
lished works of the elder president with peculiar care. 
He was an early and confidential friend of Dr. Bella- 
• my, one of the most intimate associates of the elder 
president, and he learned from Bellamy the exact 
shadings of the father's system. He was also a life- 
long friend of Dr. Samuel Hopkins, another of presi- 
dent Edwards’s bosom companions, and he obtained 
from Hopkins many nice discriminations in regard to 
the president’s theories as expounded in his conversa- 
tions. He was thus well fitted to be an editor of his 
father's works, and lie did prepare for the press the 
1 History of the Work of Redemption , two volumes of ser- 
mons, and two volumes of Miscellaneous Observations 
on important Theological Subjects . He was also well 
fitted to write a commentary on liis father’s doctrinal 
system, as that system was originally published by 
the President, or afterwards modified by Hopkins, Bel- 
lamy, Smalley, and others. In this aspect there is 
great value belonging to Dr. Edwards's treatise enti- 
tled Improvements in Theology made by President Ed- 
wards and those who have foil need his Course of Thought. 
In 1797, while he was at Colelvook, lie published A 
Dissertation concerning Liberty and Necessity ; in reply 
to the Rev. Dr. Samuel West. This volume may he re- 
[ garded as perhaps the fairest exponent of the elder 
president's theory of the will. It led Dr. Emmons to 
| say that, of the two, the father had more reason than 
the soil, yet the son was a better reasoner than the fa- 
ther. 1 1 is accordingly in his published works that the 
influence of Dr. Edwards has been most conspicuous. 
He printed numerous articles in the New York Theo- 
logical Magazine ; various sermons, one in 1783, at the 
ordination of Rev. Timothy Dwight, at Greenfield, 
Conn. ; one in 1791, on the Injustice and Impolicy of 


EDYT ARDS 


69 


EDWARDS 


the Slave-trade; one in 1791, on Human Depravity; 
one in 1792, at the ordination of Rev. Dan Bradley, at 
Hamden; one in 1792, at the ordination of Rev. Wil- 
liam Brown, at Glastenlmry ; one in 1792, the Concio 
ad Clerum, preached in the chapel of Tale College on 
the marriage of a deceased wife’s sister; one in 1793, 
on the death of Roger Sherman ; an election sermon 
in 1794 ; in 1797, a sermon on the Future State of Ex- 
istence and the Immortality of the Soul; in 1799, a 
Farewell Sermon to the people of Colebrook. The 
most celebrated of his discourses are the three On the 
Necessity of the A tenement and its Consistency with Free 
Grace in Forgiveness. They were “ preached before 
his excellency the governor and a large number of 
both houses of the Legislature of the State of Connec- 
ticut, during their sessions at New Haven, in October, 
1785, and published by request.” They have been 
frequently republished, and they form the basis of 
that theory of the atonement which is sometimes call- 
ed the “Edwardean theory,” and is now commonly 
adopted by what is termed the “ New England school 
of divines.” These discourses have great historical 
ns well as theological importance, and they serve to 
illustrate the fact that some of the most profound 
treatises in the science of divinity have been originally 
preached in sermons. One ultimate design of his vol- 
ume on the Atonement was to refute the argument 
which some were deriving from that doctrine in favor 
of universal salvation. Intimately connected with 
this volume was another larger work, original^ pub- 
lished in 1789, but frequently republished, and enti- 
tled, The Salvation of all Men strictly examined , and the 
endless Punishment of those who die impenitent argued 
and defended against the Reasonings of Dr. Chauncy in 
his book entitled “ The Salvation of all Men.” This 
work alone would have established the fame of Dr. 
Edwards as a divine of singular acuteness, deep pene- 
tration, accuracy and precision of thought and style. 
At the present day it is more suggestive of the true 
and the decisive modes 'of reasoning on this subject 
than is perhaps any other volume. The preceding 
works illustrate the metaph 3 T sical acumen and the pro- 
found judgment of Dr. Edwards ; he published one 
essay which indicates his tact as a philologist, and 
which elicited the enthusiastic praises of Humboldt. 
This is his Observations on the Language of the Muh- 
hekaneew Indians , in which the Extent of that Language 
in North America is shown, its Genius grammatically 
traced, and some of its Peculiarities, and some Instances 
of Analogy between that and the Hebrew are pointed 
out. These observations were “communicated to the 
Connecticut Society of Arts and Sciences, and publish- 
ed at the request of the society.” One of the most ac- 
complished of American linguists, Hon. John Picker- 
ing, who edited one edition of this paper, says of it: 

“ The work has been for some time well known in Eu- 
rope, where it has undoubtedly contributed to the dif- 
fusion of more just ideas than once prevailed respecting 
the structure of the Indian languages, and has served i 
to correct some of the errors into which learned men 
had been led by placing too implicit confidence in the 
accounts of hasty travellers and blundering interpret- 
ers. In the Mithridates , that immortal monument of 
philological research, professor Yater refers to it for 
the information he has given upon the Mohegan lan- 
guage, and he has published large extracts from it. 
To a perfect familiarity with the Muhhekaneew dialect, 
Dr. Edwards united a stock of grammatical and other 
learning which well qualified him for the task of re- 
ducing an unwritten language to the rules of gram- 
mar.” Nearly all of Dr. Edwards’s published writ- 
ings were collected and reprinted in two octavo vol- 
umes, each of above 500 pages, in 1842. Thej'- were 
edited, and a memoir was prefixed to them, by his 
grandson, Rev. Try on Edwards, D.D. 

Although the two Edwardses were in various partic- 
ulars dissimilar, yet in man 3 ’- respects there was a 


striking resemblance between them. Dr. Samuel Mil. 
ler, of Princeton, says “the son greatly resembled 
his venerable father in metaphysical acuteness, in ar- 
dent piety, and in the purest exemplariness of Chris- 
tian deportment.” The son, like the father, was a 
tutor in the college where he had been a student ; was 
first ordained over a prominent church in the town 
where his maternal grandfather had been the pastor ; 
was dismissed on account of his doctrinal .opinions; 
was afterwards the minister of a retired parish ; was 
then president of a college, and died soon after his in- 
auguration. Ills memoir states that both the father 
and the son preached on the first Sabbath of the Jan- 
uary preceding their death from the text, “ This year 
thon slialt die.” (E. A. P.) 

Edwards, Justin, D.D., an eminent Congrega- 
tional minister, was born at Westhampton, Mass., April 
25, 1787. He graduated at Williams College 1810 ; en- 
tered the Theological Seminary in Andover March, 
1811, and was installed pastor of the South Church in 
the same place December 2, 1812. In 1825 he was one 
of the sixteen who founded the “American Society 
for the Promotion of Temperance.” He was installed 
pastor of the Salem-Strect Church, Boston, January 1, 
1828, but resigned August 20, 1829, and entered the 
service of the American Temperance Society as secre- 
tary. His zeal, w isdom, and activity contributed, per- 
haps more than any other agency, to diffuse the prin- 
ciples of the Temperance reform in the United States. 
He was elected Professor of Theology in the Seminary 
in New York in February, 1836, and President of the 
Seminary at Andover, 1837. He accepted the latter 
appointment. In 1842 he w’as chosen secretary of the 
newly-formed American and Foreign Sabbath Union, 
and in this service lie spent several laborious and emi- 
nently useful years. He died July 24, 1853. He pub- 
lished An Address before the Rhetorical Society in the 
Theological Seminary at Andover (1824) : — An Address 
at the laying of the corner-stone of the new meeting-house 
in Andover (1826) : — A Letter to the friends of Temper- 
ance in Mass. (1836) : — Permanent Temperance Docu- 
ments, a series of papers (1830-36) : — Permanent Doc- 
uments, a series of papers on The Sabbath; and numer- 
ous tracts for the American Tract Society, and a com- 
pendious Commentary (N. T. and part of O. T. ; Amer. 
Tract Society). His life was full of varied hut always 
consecrated labor, and few men have contributed more 
largely to promote Christian ethics in America hv lay- 
ing their foundation wisely in true religion. See Ilal- 
leck, Life of Justin Edwards (Amer. Tract Society): 
and Sprague, Annals , ii, 572. 

Edwards, Morgan, a Baptist minister, was born 
in Trevethin parish, Wales, May 9, 1722. He com- 
menced preaching in 1738, supplied for seven years a 
small congregation in Boston, Lincolnshire, and thence 
removed to Cork, Ireland, where he was pastor for nine 
years. After spending one year more at Rye, in Sus- 
sex, he emigrated to America, and in May, 1761, be- 
came pastor of the Baptist Church in Philadelphia. In 
1772 he removed to Newark, Del., and preached to sev- 
eral vacant churches until the commencement of the 
Revolution. After the w r ar he delivered lectures on 
divinity in Philadelphia and other parts of Pennsylva- 
nia, as well as in New r Jersey, Delaware, and New* En- 
gland. He died January 28, 1795. Besides various 
manuscripts, he left behind him forty-two volumes of 
sermons. lie published a number of occasional ser- 
mons, addresses, pamphlets, etc.— Sprague, A nn. vi, 82. 

Edwards, Thomas, an English divine, was edu- 
cated at Trinity College, Cambridge, w here lie passed 
A.B. in 1605, and A.M. in 1609. lie did not become 
a Nonconformist, but yet was ahvays a Puritan in 
theology. “ T never,” says he, “had a canonical coat, 
declined subscription for many years before the Par- 
liament, though I practised the old conformity; much 
less did I bow to the altar and at the name of Jesus,” 


EDWARDS 


1 0 


EDZARDI 


etc. He was lecturer at Hertford, and afterwards in 
London. When the Long Parliament declared against 
Charles I he sided with them, but when the Jndepeud- ■ 
ents came into power he opposed them with great vir- 
ulence both by writing and acting. He published 
Reasons against the Independent Government of partial- \ 
lar Congregations (1641, 4to) : — Antapotogia , or a full 
ansicer to the apohgctical Narration of Mr. Goodtcyn , 
Mr. Nge, Mr. Sgmpson , Mr. Burroughs , Mr. Bridge, 
Members of the Assembly of Divines, wherein are han- 
dled many of the Controversies of these Times (1044, 4to: 
the chief design of this work we learn from himself, 
in the preface to it: “This Antapologia ,” says he, “I 
here recommend to you for a true glass to behold the 
faces of Presbytery and Independency in, with the 
beauty, order, and strength of the one, and the deform- 
ity, disorder, and weakness of the other”) : — Gangrce- 
na, or a Catalogue mid discovery of many of the Errors , 
Heresies, Blasjtkemies, and pernicious Practices of the 
Sectaries of this Time (1645, 4to) : — Gangrcma , part ii 
(1646, 4to) : — Gangrama , part iii : — The casting doicn 
of the last and strongest hold of Satan , or a Treatise 
against Toleration (part i, 1647): — Of the particular 
] Isihilitg of the Church : — A Treatise of the Civil Power 
in Ecclesiastical , and of Suspension from the Lord's 
Sujipev. The time and place of his death arc un- 
known. lie professed himself “a plain, open-hearted 
man, who hated tricks, reserves, and designs; zealous 
for the Assembly of Divines, the Directory, the use of 
the Lord’s Prayer, singing of psalms, etc., and so ear- 
nest for what he took to be the truth that he was usu- 
ally called in Cambridge young Luther.” — Kippis, 
Biog. Brit . vol. v. 

Edwards, Thomas, D.D., a learned Arminian 
divine, born at Coventry, England, in 1729; entered 
Clare Hall, Cambridge (of which .lie became fellow), 
in 1747 ; master of the Free School, and rector of St. 
John the Baptist, Coventry, in 1758; vicar of Nunea- 
ton, Warwickshire, in 1770; and died in 1785. His 
principal writings are, (1.) The Doctrine of irresistible 
Grace proved to have no Foundation in the Waitings of 
the New Testament (Camb. 1759, 8vo): — (2.) Prolegom- 
ena in libros veteris Testamenti poeticos (Cantab. 1762, | 
8vo). 

Edwards, Timothy, a Congregational minister, ! 
was horn May 14, 1669, at Hartford, Conn. He grad- 
uated at Harvard College July 4, 1691, and was or- 
dained May, 1694, as pastor in East Windsor, which 
relation he sustained until his death, Jan. 27, 1758. 
Mr. Edwards was father of the distinguished Jonathan j 
Edwards. He published but one sermon ( Election Sei- 
mon , 1732). — Sprague, Annals, i, 230. 

Edwy, surnamed the Fair, eldest son of king Ed- 
mund. succeeded his uncle Eldred as king of England 
in 955, while his brother Edgar became viceroy of 
Mercia. Edwy had married Alfriga, the daughter 
of a noble matron, and was affectionately attached to 
his young wife. The monks, at the head of whom 
were Dunstan and archbishop Odo, had, during the 
reign of Eldred, exerted a great influence at the court; 
but the young king rejected their councils, and this 
appears to have made them jealous of Alfriga, believ- 
ing her to be the cause of this change; and when, on 
the occasion of his coronation, the king left his court 
for a time, Dunstan, who had watched for an opportu- 
nity to revenge himself on the queen, rushed to her 
chamber, tore the king from her arms, and brought 
him hack to his courtiers. In revenge for this indig- 
nity, Edwy not only banished Dunstan (956), but ex- 
tended his hatred to the monks generally. Odo de- 
clared the marriage unlawful, carried the queen a pris- 
oner to Ireland, and ordered her face to be branded 
with a red-hot iron. Her wounds soon healing, she 
recovered her former beauty, and returned to Glou- 
cester. Here she was discovered hv Odo’s emissaries, 
and was treated with such cruelty as to cause her 


death. When Edwy attempted to resist this violence 
of the monks, Odo formed a conspiracy against him 
with Edgar, supported by the Mercians and Northum- 
brians, and he was deprived of the larger part of his 
kingdom — all England north of the Thames. He sur- 
vived the partition of his kingdom only a few mouths, 
and died before the end of the year 959. While the 
monks represent king Edwy as licentious and a mal- 
administrator, Huntingdon, who was no party in the 
quarrel, gives him a handsome character, reports that 
the country flourished under his administration, and 
that Odo and Dunstan became his enemies because he 
was unwilling to submit to the severity of monastic 
rulers. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Geiiir. xv, 692; Mackin- 
tosh, IJistoi'y of England , i, 55 sq. ; Wright, Biographic 
Brit . Lit. (A. S. P.) 430 sq. ; Collier, Eccles. History , i, 
430 sq. ; Eelinb. Rev. xxv and xlii. 

Edzardi, Esra, a great Hebrew scholar, was born 
at Hamburg June 28, 1629. He pursued his studies 
at Leipzig, Wittenberg, and Tubingen, and, in order 
to become still more proficient, visited many of the 
larger cities, as Zwickau, where he studied under 
Damn ; Basle, where he enjoyed the instruction of 
Buxtorf (q. v.) ; Strasburg, Giessen, Greifswald, and 
also Bostoek, where he was made a licentiate. On his 
' return to Hamburg he gave instruction in Hebrew, 
and became famous not only for his learning in the 
Oriental tongues, his thorough acquaintance with Tal- 
mudic literature and Hebrew antiquities, but also for 
bis zeal in the conversion of Jews and Romanists. He 
died January 1,1708. Most of the works of Edzardi 
remain in MS. form. The only hook mentioned by 
Griisse is Consensus Antiquit. Juclaicce c. explicat. chris- 
tianorum super Jerem. xxiii. 5, 6, Ilebr. Ralb. (Hamb. 
1670, fob). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biograph. Generate, xv, C93; 
Griisse, Allgem. Literargeschichte , vi, 886. (J. II. W.) 

Edzardi, Esra Heinrich, a theologian and 1ns- 
1 torian, son of Sebastian Edzardi, was born at Hamburg 
Jan. 28, 1703. Although his life was very short (he 
died Feb. 4, 1733), lie left a number of works, of which 
the principal are, Schwedisehe Kirchengeschichte (Alto- 
na, 1720, 8vo) : — Ordnung der zehn Gebote in Lutheri 
Catechismo (Hamburg, 1721, 8vo): — Dispitlaiio de Cycno 
ante mortem von canente (Wittenb. 1722, 4to) : — Wahre 
Lehre von der Gnademvalil (1721, 4to). — Hoefer, A t oki\ 
Biogr. Gem-rale , xv, 694. (J. II. W.) 

Edzardi, Georg Elieser, son of Esra Edzardi, 
known, like his father, as a great Hebrew scholar, was 
born at Hamburg January 22, 1661. He studied at 
the universities of Giessen, Frankfort on the Oder, and 
Heidelberg, and resided for some time at Worms, 
where he held man}'’ disputations with the Rabbis. 
After a journey through Germany, he was appointed 
professor of Greek and history at the gymnasium in 
Hamburg. In 1717 he was appointed professor of He- 
brew, and in this department became the worthy suc- 
cessor of his father, and, like him, was zealous in the 
conversion of the Jews. He died July 23, 1727. Be- 
sides treatises on the Talmud, we have from him Ex- 
cerpta Gemaree Babylonicce. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gmer. 
xv, 693 ; Grasse, Literargeschichte, vi, 886. (J . H. W.) 

Edzardi, Johann Esra, a German historian, 
brother of the distinguished Hebraist Georg Eliezer, 
was horn at Hamburg June 23,1662. He studied at 
his own native place, at Giessen, and at the leading 
universities of Germany and Switzerland. He v’as 
for a time an instructor at Rostock, and on his return 
to Hamburg was called to London to preside as pastor 
over the evangelical Church of the Holy Trinity. He 
died Nov. 15, 1713. Besides a Funeral Oration to Queen 
Mary , he left in MS. a History of the Church of England. 

! — noefer, Nouv. Biogr. Gmer. xv, 693. (J. H. W.) 

Edzardi, Sebastian, youngest son of Esra, was 
born at Hamburg August 1, 1673. When only eight- 
een years old he went to Holland and England, and 
, soon after entered the University of Wittenberg, 


EFFECTUAL CALLING 


VI 


EGEDE 


where he received-his M.A. degree in 1G95. He then 1 
entered upon the study of theology, but in 1696 was ap- j 
pointed professor of logic and metaphysics at the Ham- 
burg Gymnasium. He was a man of vast learning, 
but his zeal for the Lutherans and his hatred of the 
Reformed, whom he believed insincere in their profes- ! 
sions, engaged him in long and violent controversies. 
The king of Prussia, Friedrich I (in 1705), ordered five 
of Edzardi's dissertations written against the Reform- 
ed to be burned at Berlin by the hand of the sheriff 
(YValch, Ketzer-llistorie , i, 512 sq. ; iii, 1087 sq.). But 
this punishment was of no avail with Edzardi. He even 
went so far as to impeach the character of the Univers- 
ity of Halle, which he called Halle (Tartarus). After 
the death of his father he aided his brother Georg Eli- 
eser in his efforts for the conversion of the Jews. He 
died June 10, 1786. A complete catalogue of his nu- 
merous polemical writings may be found in Thiessen, 
Versuch e. Gelehrt. Gesch. von Hamburg, Th. i, 189-154, 
and in Holler’s Cimbria Litcrata, i, 117-151. His lead- 
ing dissertations against a union with the Reformed 
were, Dissertui. de unione cum Reformatis hodiernis fu- 
gicnda (Ilamb. 1703, 4to): — Diatr. de cans, unionis a 
Calviniunis qucesitie (Hamb. 1704, 4to) : — Pelagianismus 
Calvinianonim commonstratus (Hamb. [Yiteb.] 1705, 
4to) : — Manichccismus Calvinianor. commonstratus , una 
cum consectario : nullum esse eccl. c. Calvin, unioni locum 
(Hamb. 1705, 4to). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. Giner. xv, 
694; Fuhrmann, Hmidwbrierb. d. Kirchen gesch. i, 672; 
A sell bach, Allgem. Kirchen- Lexikon, ii, 495 ; Schrockh, 
Ki rcke n gesch ichte s. d. Reform, viii, 231, 232; Grasse, 
Allgem. Liter drgeschickte, vi, 886. (J. 11. W.) 

Effectual Calling. See Call. 

Effectual Prayer is the rendering of an expres- 
sion which occurs James v, 16 : “The effectual fervent 
(ti'fpy ovpkvij) prayer of a righteous man availeth 
much.” The verb ire pyiio (the root of the English en- 
ergy), thus translated, signifies to work in , produce, 
effect (intransitively, Matt, xiv, 2; Mark vi, 15; or 
transitively, 1 Cor. xii, G; Gal. iii, 5; Ephes. i, 11; 
Phil, ii, 13; or in the “middle voice,” Rom. vii, 5; 2 
Cor. i, 6; iv, 12; Gal. v, 6; Ephes. iii, 20; Col. i, 29; 

1 Thess. ii, 13; 2 Tliess. ii, 7). The participle here, if 
regarded as used in a neuter sense, adjectively, would 
signify operative , effective, and such is the interpreta- 
tion of most commentators (see Wolfii Curie , in loc., 
for the views and discussions of the older writers) ; 
but this produces a tautology with the context (t to\v 
iVyuft, “ availeth much”), which all efforts have failed 
to remove (such as that of Meyer, who renders adverb- 
ially, “The prayer of a righteous man avails much, in 
that it works [indem es wirkt],” i. e. in its efficiency 
(so Alford, in loc.). It is better (with Vatablns, Ham- 
mond, "Whitby, Macknight. Doddridge, and Clarke, to 
regard it as passive , in its literal sense, inwrought , im- 
plying both earnest unction and divine influence, not 
full inspiration (although the example of Elijah ad- 
duced in the following verse would almost warrant 
that), but such an afflatus as accompanies the suppli- 
cations of the believing suppliant. See Prayer. 

Efficacious Grace. See Grace; Jansenism. 

Effrontes, an obscure Transylvanian sect of the 
sixteenth century, who not only denied the Holy 
Ghost, but, among other fooleries, cut their foreheads 
and anointed them with oil as a mode of initiation. 
Hence their name “ exfrons" — out of the brow (Eadie, 
Eccl. Cyclop, s. v.). 

Effusion of the Holy Spirit. See Pentecost. 

Egbert or Ecbert, archbishop of York, was a 
brother of Eadbert, king of Northumberland, and a 
pupil, and later a friend, of Beda. As teacher at the 
cathedral school of York, he became celebrated for ex- 
tensive knowledge and for his Christian character. 
Among those who were educated at this school were 
Alcuin and Aelbert. He became bishop of York in 


731, and soon after, in 735, York was made an arch- 
bishopric, with metropolitan power over all bishoprics 
north of the river Humber. Even as bishop and arch- 
bishop he continued to give instruction at the cathe- 
dral school. He founded a library at York which 
gained great reputation, but was destroyed by fire in 
the reign of Stephen. He died in 767, leaving a Dia- 
logus de Ecclesmsiica Institatione (Dublin, 1664 ; Lond. 
1693; also in Galland’s Bill. Pair, xiii, 266), and a 
collection of canonical prescriptions, De jure sacerdo- 
tal i, of which only a few fragments are extant (Mansi, 
xii, fob 411-431). The treatise De Remedlis peccatorum 
(Mansi, xii, 489) is probably an extract from the work 
just named by some other writers. Some penitential 
books have also been ascribed to Egbert, but falsely. — 
Mosheim, Ch. Hist, ii, 15; Collier, Eccl. Hist, of Eng - 
land, vol. i ; Wright, Biog. Brit. Lit. Anglo-Saxon Pe- 
riod, p. 297 ; Herzog, Real-Encykl. iii, 658; Hoefer, Bi- 
ographic Ginerale , xv, 700. 

Egbert, Saint, was born in the 7th century. He 
was a monk in the convent of Rathmelsing, and in G44, 
when seized with the plague, he made a vow that, in 
case of recovery, he would leave his country and 
! preach the Gospel among the pagans. He accordingly 
I set out as a missionary for Germany, but was by a 
tempest compelled to return. He then took up his 
| abode among the monks of the island of Hy, from 
I where he sent as missionaries to Friesland, first, the 
learned monk Wictbert, and, when this one returned 
after two years of fruitless labor, twelve Anglo-Sax- 
ons. Egbert bad a prominent share in kindling that 
remarkable missionary zeal which distinguished the 
Anglo-Saxons in the 8th century. He introduced, in 
716, into the monastery of Hy the Roman manner of 
celebrating Easter, and the Roman tonsure. He died 
in 729. — Beda, Hist. Eccl. Angl. iii, 27 ; v, 10, 11, 23; 
Herzog, Real-Encykl. iii, 658. (A. J. S.) 

Egede, Hans, an eminent Danish missionfiry, 
called the “apostle of Greenland,” was 1 orn at Har- 
stadt, Norway (which at that time belonged to Den- 
mark), Jan. 31, 1686, and became pastor at Drontheim 
in 1707. , Here he conceived the project of a mission 
to Greenland, having derived from a history of Nor- 
way the impression that formerly there had been Chris- 
tians in Greenland, where now there were only hea- 
thens. “ Egede, after receiving some suggestions to 
this effect from a friend in Bergen, became so enthusi- 
astic on the subject that he wrote to the bishops of 
Bergen and Drontheim in 1710, proposing an expedi- 
tion to convert the Greenlanders ; and on its striking 
him that such a recommendation would come with an 
ill grace from one who did not offer to undertake it 
himself, he made the offer, supposing, however, as he 
himself tells us, that as it was war-time, and the expe- 
dition would require some money, the proposal would 
not be accepted. He received in reply a strange let- 
ter from the bishop of Drontheim, Krog, in which the 
prelate suggested that ‘Greenland was undoubtedly a 
part of America, and could not be very far from Cuba 
and Hispaniola, where there was found such abun- 
dance of gold ;’ concluding that it was very likely that 
those who went to Greenland would bring home ‘in- 
credible riches.’ Egede had made this offer; very 
oddly, without acquainting his wife ; and as soon as 
she became aware of it, by the receipt of the bishop’s 
letters, she, with her mother and his mother, assailed 
Egede with such strong remonstrances, that, he says 
in his own account, he was quite conquered, and re- 
pulsed his folly with a promise to remain in the land 
which ‘God had placed him in’ ” {Eng. Cyclop.'). Soon 
after, his wife, however, gave her consent. In 1717 
he threw up his benefice at Vaagen, and went with his 
family to Bergen, endeavoring to found a company to 
trade with Greenland. The merchants did not re- 
ceive this project favorably, and Egede determined to 
lay his plans before the king at Copenhagen. “ Fred- 


EGEDE 


72 


EGEDE 


erick IV of Denmark, who had already, in 1714, found- 
ed a college for the propagation of the Gospel, sent 
Egede back to Bergen with his approbation; a com- 
pany was formed, to which Egede put down his name 
for the first subscription of 300 dollars, and finally, on 
May 3, 1721, a ship called k Haahet,’ or 1 The Hope,’ set 
sail" for Greenland, with forty-six souls on board, in- 
cluding Egede and his family. On the 3d of July, af- 
tjr a dangerous voyage, they set foot on shore at Baals- 
revier, on the western coast, and were, on the -whole, 
hospitably received by the natives. The very appear- 
ance of the Greenlanders at once put a negative on the 
supposition that they were descended from the North- 
men, and their language, which it was now the mis- 
sionary’s business to learn, was found to be entirely of 
a different kind, being, in fact, nearly related to that 
spoken by the Esquimaux of Labrador. The climate 
and the soil were both harsher and ruder than the 
Norwegians had expected, and the only circumstance 
that was in their favor was the character of the inhab- 
itants, which, though at first excessively phlegmatic, 
so as to give the idea that their feelings had been 
frozen, was neither cruel, nor, as was found by further 
experience, unadapted to receive religious impressions. 
For some years the mission had a hard battle for life. 
The settlers, unable to obtain sufficient food by fishing 
and the chase, were entirely dependent on the supply 
of provisions sent them by annual store-ships from 
Denmark, and when this supply was delayed, were re- 
duced to short rations and the dread of starvation. 
On one occasion even Egede’s courage gave way, and 
he had made up his mind to abandon the mission and 
return to Europe unless the provisions arrived within 
fourteen days. His wife alone opposed the resolution, 
and refused to pack up, persisting in predicting that 
the store-ship would arrive in time; and, ere the time 
had elapsed, the ships, which had missed the coast, 
found their way, and brought tidings that, rather than 
give up the attempt to Christianize Greenland, the 
king had ordered a lottery in favor of it, and, on the 
lottery’s failing, had imposed a special tax on Denmark 
and Norway under the name of the Greenland Assess- 
ment. In 1727 the Bergen company for trading with 
Greenland was dissolved, from the losses it had sus- 
tained, and the Danish government then resolved on 
founding a colony in Greenland, and sent in 1728 a 
ship of war, with a body of soldiers under the com- 
mand of a Major Paars. The soldiers grew mutinous 
when they saw to what a country they had been sent, 
and Egede found his life in more danger from his coun- 
trymen than it had ever been from the natives. The 
death of king Frederick IV, in 1731, occasioned a 
change of affairs. The new king, Christian IV, deter- 
mined to break up the colony and recall all his sub- 
jects from Greenland, with the exception of such as 
chose to remain of their own free-will, to whom he 
gave directions that provisions were to be allowed for 
one year, but that they were to be led to expect no 
further supply. Egede had then been ten years in 
Greenland, ami bis labors were beginning to bear fruit. 
His eldest son Paul, who was a boy of twelve when 
they landed, had been of much assistance in learning 
the language and in other ways; his wife and the 
younger children had aided greatly in producing a fa- 
vorable effect on the natives, who had seen no Euro- 
peans before except the crews of the Dutch trading- 
vessels. The angekoks, or conjurors, who might al- i 
most he called the priests of the native religion, had 
been awed, some into respect and others into silence, 
by the mildness and active benevolence of the foreign 
angckok ; the natives had seen with wonder the inter- 
est he took in their welfare, and, if they refused to be- 
lieve the new doctrines themselves, had not forbidden 
them to their children, of whom Egede had a hundred 
and fifty baptized. The elder Greenlanders, when 
Egede told them of the efficacy of prayer, asked him 1 
to pray that there should be no winter ; and when he i 


spoke of the torment of fire, said they should prefer it 
! to frost. Egede, confirmed by his wife, resolved to re- 
main, and this resolution greatly increased his influ- 
ence over the Greenlanders, who knew that it could 
only proceed from zeal in their behalf. The king of 
Denmark, unable to resist his constancy, sent another 
year’s provision beyond what he had promised, and 
finally, in 1733, announced that Jie hail changed his 
mind, and determined to devote a yearly sum to the 
Greenland mission. A dreadful trial was approach- 
ing. The Greenland children, of whom some had oc- 
casionally been sent to Denmark, almost all died of 
the small-pox. Two of them were returning home 
from Copenhagen in the vessel which came in 1733 ; 
one of them died on the voyage, the other brought the 
disorder to Greenland, and the mortality was dreadful. 
From September, 1733, to June, 1734, the contagion 
raged to a degree that threatened to depopulate Green- 
land. When the trading-agents afterwards went over 
the country, they found every dwelling-house empty 
for thirty leagues to the north of the Danish colony, 
and the same devastation was said to have extended 
still farther south : the number of the dead was com- 
puted at 3000. That winter in Greenland offered a 
combination of horrors which could seldom be equal- 
led, but they were met with admirable constancy by 
Egede and his indefatigable wife. The same ship that 
brought the small-pox had brought the assistance of 
some Moravian missionaries. In the year 1734 his son 
Paul Egede returned from Copenhagen, whither he had 
been sent to study, and the elder Egede, finding his 
health begin to fail, applied for leave to return home. 
The permission reached him in 1735, but his return was 
delayed from the illness of his wife, who longed to see 
her native land again, but was denied that gratifica- 
tion, dying finally in Greenland on the 21st. of Decem- 
ber, 1735, at the age of G2. Egede carried her coffin 
with him to Denmark, and she was buried in Copenha- 
gen, where she was followed to the grave by the whole 
of the clergy of the city. A seminary for the Green- 
land mission was established there in 1740, and Egede 
I was appointed superintendent, with the title of bishop. 
In the same year he preferred a memorial for an expe- 
dition to be sent out to discover the lost 1 eastern col- 
ony’ of the old Norwegians, and offered to accompany 
it in person, bnt the proposal was not adopted. In 
1747 Egede retired from his office at Copenhagen, and 
spent most of the remainder of his life at the house of 
his daughter Christine, who was married to a clergy- 
man of the island of Falster. While he was at Co- 
penhagen he had married a second wife, who aceom 
panied him to Falster, but before liis last illness he ex- 
pressed his wish that lie should be buried by the side 
of his first wife at Copenhagen, and said that if they 
would not promise to carry this wish into effect, he 
would go to Copenhagen to die there. He died at 
Falster on the 5th of November, 1758” (Eng. Cyclop.'). 
He wrote -two hooks on the history of his life’s labors. 
The first was, Relation angaaende den Grbnlandske Mis- 
sions Begyndelse og forsdttelse (Copen h. 1738 ; German, 
Ilamb. 1748). It is rich in materials, but drv in style. 
Its chief recommendation is its sincerity. The reader 
is disposed to give entire confidence to the missionary, 
who not only tells him that on one occasion he labored 
earnestly in his vocation, lmt that on another he occu- 
pied himself for days in the study of alchemy; who 
not only speaks of the ardor of his faith at times, but 
tells us that at others lie was seized with a hatred of 
his task and of religion altogether. Den gamlc G run- 
lands nge Perlmtration (Copenh. 1741-4) was trans- 
lated into French (17<;3), and into English in 1745, un- 
der the title of .4 Description of Greenland. The trans- 
lation was reprinted in 1*1*. It comprises his obser- 
vations on the geography and natural history of Green- 
land, and the manners of its inhabitants. ISee Engl sh 
Cychpadia , s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Encykl. iii, G59; lioe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , xv, 702 ; Brauer, Beitrag zur 


EGEDE 


73 


EGINHARD 


Gesch. der FTeidenbekehrung (part iii, 1839) ; Rudelbach, 
Christl. Biogr. (part vi). 

Egede, Paul, son of Hans, was born at Waagen, 
Norway; went to Greenland in 1720, in his twelfth 
year ; afterwards studied at Copenhagen ; returned to 
Greenland in 1734 ; finally left it in 1740, and was, in 
reward for his labors, appointed chaplain of the hospi- 
tal of the Holy Ghost, member of the College of Mis- 
sions, director of the Hospital of Orphans, and finally 
(177G) bishoj) of Greenland. Having retired to the 
house of his son-in-law, pastor Saabvc, he did not 
cease to urge the Danish government to send new ex- 
peditions to that colony, and had the joy of seeing 
his wishes finally complied with. He died June 3, 
1789. He wrote and published a Greenland grammar 
(Grammatica Grcenlandico- Lat.-Dan., Copenh. 17G0) 
and dictionary ( Dictionarium Gratnlcindicum-Dano-La- 
tinum, Copenh. 1754), which have since been improved 
bv Fabricius; translated the New Testament into the 
language, and was the author of a work ,Efterretninger 
om Gronkmd ( Information on Greenland, Copenh. 1789), 
which is one of the most interesting in Danish litera- 
ture. It gives a history of the mission from 1720 to 
1788 in a more interesting style than his father was 
master of. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biogr. Giner. xv, 705. 

Egel. Sec Heifer. 

Egg (In IS" 1 3, beytsah ', so called from' its whiteness, 
wop) occurs, in the plur., of eggs deserted (Isa. x, 14), 
of the eggs of a bird (Dent, xxii, G), of the ostrich (Job 
xxxix, 14), or the cockatrice (Isa. lix, 5). Sec Fowl ; 
Ostrich ; Cockatrice. It is apparently in this last 
sense that an egg is contrasted with a scorpion in 
Luke xi, 12, as a desirable article of food. The body 
of the scorpion is said to be very like an egg; the 
head can scarcely be distinguished, as it appears to be 
joined and continued to the breast. Bochart adduces 
authorities to prove that scorpions in J uda?a were 
about the size of an egg (Job xxxix, 14; Isa. x, 14; 
lix, 5). The passage in Dent, xxii, G, humanely pro- 
hibits the taking away of a brooding bird from a nest, 
and is similar in its nature to the provision respecting 
other animals and their young (Lev. xxii, 28). 

Eggs are usually considered a great delicacy in the 
East, and are served up with fish and honey at their 
entertainments. Among the ancient Egyptians poul- 
try seems to have been bred in abundance, and the 
most remarkable thing connected with it is the man- 
ner in which the eggs were hatched by artificial means, 
and which, from the monuments, we have reason to 
infer, was known and practised there at a very early 
period. At the present time there are as many as four 
hundred and fifty of these establishments, which, be- 
ing heavily taxed, produce a large revenue to the gov- 
ernment. The proprietors of these egg-ovens make 
the round of the villages in their vicinity, and collect 
eggs from the peasants, which are given in charge to ! 
the rearers, who, without any previous examination, 
place all they receive on mats strewed with bran, in a 
room eleven feet square, with a flat roof, and about 
four feet high, over which is a chamber of the same j 
size, but with a vaulted roof, about nine feet high ; a j 
small aperture in the centre of the vaulted roof ad- 
mitting light during the warm weather, and another 
of larger diameter immediately below, communicating 
with the oven, through whose ceiling it is pierced. 
By this the man descends to observe the eggs : but in 
the cold season both openings are closed, and a lamp 
is kept burning instead, another entrance at the front 
part of the oven being then used for the same purpose, 
and shut immediately on his quitting it. In the up- 
per room, the fire is disposed along the length of two 
troughs, based with carthern slabs, reaching from one 
side to the other against the front and back walls. In 
the oven the eggs are placed in a line corresponding 
to and immediately below the fire, where they remain 
half a day. They are then removed to a warmer 


I place, and replaced by others, and so on, till all have 
taken their share of the warmest positions, to which 
i each set returns, again and again, in regular sueccs- 
! sion, till the expiration of six days. They are then 
held up one by one towards a strong light, and if the 
egg appears clear, and of a uniform color, it is evident 
it has not succeeded ; but if it shows an opaque sub- 
stance within, or the appearance of different shades, 
the chicken is already formed ; and these last are all 
returned to the oven for four days more, their positions 
being changed as before. At the expiration of the 
fourth day they are removed to another oven, over 
which, however, there are no fires, where they remain 
for five days in one heap, the aperture in the roof be- 
ing closed with tow to exclude air; after which they 
are placed separately about one, two, or three inches 
apart, over the whole surface of the mats, which are 
sprinkled with a little bran. They arc now continu- 
ally turned and shifted from one part of the mats to 
another for six or seven days, all air being carefully 
excluded, and are constantly examined by one of the 
rearers, who applies each singly to his upper eyelid. 
1 hose which are cold prove the chickens to be dead; 
but -warmth greater than that of the human skin is the 
favorable sign that the eggs have succeeded. The 
average temperature maintained is from 100° to 105°. 
The manager, having been accustomed to his art from 
his youth, knows from experience the exact tempera- 
ture required for the success of the operation, without 
having any instrument like our thermometer to guide 
him. Each ma'amal , or set of ovens, receives about 
one hundred and fift v thousand eggs during the an- 
nual period of its being brought into use, which is only 
during about two or three months in the spring. Of. 
this number, generally one quarter, or a third, fail to 
i be productive; so that when the peasants bring their 
! eggs to be hatched, the proprietor of the ma’amal re- 
turns one chicken for every two eggs. The fowls pro- 
| dneed in this way are inferior both in size and flavor 
to those of Europe (Wilkinson’s Ane. Egyptians , ii, 
170, Am. cd. ; Lane’s Mod. Egyptians , ii, 5). 

The word challamutl/ , in Job vi, 6 , which 

our translators have rendered “the ■white of an egg," 
is so rendered by the Hebrew interpreters, and the 
Targum, or rather, “the slime of the yolk of an egg.” 
The Syriac interpretation gives “a tasteless herb,” 
which is there proverbially used for something unsa- 
vory or insipid. See Pukslain. 

Egidio Antonini, surnamed of Viterbo, Latin 
patriarch of Constantinople, was bom at Viterbo in 
the second half of the 15th century. He was received 
into the order of the hermits of St. Augustine at the 
early age of ten years; was professor of philosophy 
and theology in several towns of Italy, and became 
one of the most eloquent preachers of his epoch. Hav- 
I ing become general of his order in 1507, he was ap- 
: pointed patriarch of Constantinople, and bishop of Vi- 
| terbo, Nepi, Castro, and Sutri. In 1512 he opened, by 
order of pope Julius II, the Council of Latcran, and on 
| this occasion severely censured the corruption prevail- 
I ing in the Church, and, in particular, among the cler- 
gy. In 1517 pope Leo X sent him to Germany, and 
appointed him cardinal ; in the following year he was 
sent as papal legate to Spain. Egidio was well versed 
in the Oriental languages, and a good Latin poet. He 
wrote a commentary to the first three chapters of Gene- 
sis and to several psalms, Latin dialogues, epistles, and 
poems, and a treatise Be ecclesuv incremento. Some of 
these works are given in Martene et Durand, A mplis- 
sima Colleetio veterum monumentomm , tom. iii. — Hoe- 
fer, Xouv. Biogr. Gener. xv, 718. (A. J. S.) 

Egidius. See ^Egidius. 

Egidius. See Gil Juan. 

Eginhard or Einhard (sometimes also called 
Agenhard or Ainhard), the biographer of Charle- 


EGLAII 


EGLINUS 


74 


magnc, was born about 770. The place of his birth is 
entirely unknown. At an early age he repaired to 
the court of Charlemagne, and became a pupil of Al- 
cuin. Eginhard gained the favor of the emperor to a 
high degree, and an intimate friendship sprang up be- 
tween him and the emperor’s children, especially the 
emperor’s oldest son and successor, Louis le Debon- 
naire. The emperor appointed him his private secre- 
tary, and superintendent of public buildings at Aix- 
la-Chapelle. Eginhard accompanied the emperor in 
all his marches and journeys, never separating from 
him excepting on one occasion (*S0G), when he was 
dispatched by Charlemagne on a mission to pope Leo, 
in order to obtain the signature of the pope for the 
document which divided the empire among the sons 
of Charlemagne. The emperor departed in his case, 
as in that of Alcuin, Angilbert, and some other friends, 
from his habit not to cumulate ecclesiastical benefices 
in one hand, and gave to him the abbeys of St. Bavo 
and Blandenberg in Ghent, St. Lerontius in Maestricht, 
Fritzlar in Germany, St. Wandregisil in France, and 
others. On the death of Charlemagne, he was ap- 
pointed preceptor of Lothaire, son of Louis le Debon- 
naire. The latter presented him with a large tract 
of land in the Odenwald, the centre of which was Mi- 
chelstadt. Here Eginhard spent the last years of his 
life in retirement. He was in 820 ordained presbyter, 
and in 827 assumed as abbot the direction of a monas- 
tery at Seligenstadt, which be had erected upon his es- 
tates. As his wife Emma was still alive at this time, 
he appears to have agreed with her to consider her 
only as a sister. The report that his wife was a 
daughter of Charlemagne is probably untrue. The 
year of his death is unknown. He was still alive in 
848. He probably had no children, and the claim of 
the counts of Erbach, who trace their descent from 
him, and in whose castle the coffins of Eginhard and 
his wife are still shown, is probably unfounded. The 
reputation of Eginhard rests chiefly upon his life of 
Charlemagne ( 1 ita et Conversatio Oloriosissimi Impe- 
rntoris Karoli Regis Magni, completed about 820), 
which is generally regarded as the most important 
historical work of a biographical nature that has come 
down to us from the Middle Ages. It frequently 
served as a model for other biographies, and was ex- 
tensively used as a scliool-hook. The best edition is 
that of Pertz (1829), in vol. ii of the J fonumenta Ger - 
manias historica ; another edition, with valuable notes 
and documents, was published by ldeler, Lebenv. Wan- 
del Karl's des Grossen (Gotha, 1839, 2 vols.) Another 
work, the Annnles Regum Francorum , Pippini, Caroli i 
Magni, Illudouici Imperatons , embraces the period 
from 741 to 829 (published in Pertz, Monumenta, vol. 
i). The first part (741-788) is based on the Annals of 
Lorsch ; the second part is original. He also wrote 
an account of the transfer of the relics of St. Marcellin 
and St. Peter from Rome to his monastery in Seligen- 
stadt ( Ilistoria iranslationis St. Marcellini et Petri , in 
Acta Sanctorum , June 2). His Epistalce., 02 in num- 
ber, are also of considerable value in a historical point 
of view. They are published in Weinkens, Eginhar- 
dus vindientus (Francf. 1714). Another work, Libellus 
de adoranda cnice , is lost. The French consider the 
edition of Eginhard'* works by M.Teulot, with a trans- 
lation and life of Eginhard (Paris, 1840-43, 2 vols.), 
to be the best and most complete. — Cave, Hist. Lit., 
anno 814 ; Moshcim, Ch. Hist. rent, viii, chap, ii, note 
43; Herzog, Real-Encyld. iii, 725; Dahl, Veber Egin- 
hard und Emma (Darmstadt, 1817). (A. J. S.) 

Eg'Iah (Heb. Eglah * , a heifer , as often ; 

Sept. AiydX and 'AyXo), one of David’s wives during 
his reign in Hebron, and the mother of his son Ith- 
ream (2 Sam. iii, 5; 1 Chron. iii, 3). B.C. 10-15. In 
both lists the same order is preserved, Eglali being the 
sixth and last, and in both is she distinguished by the 
special title of David’s “ wife.” According to the an- 


cient Hebrew tradition preserved by Jerome (Qucest. 
Ilebr. on 2 Sam. iii, 5 ; vi, 23), she was Miciial (q. v.), 
the wife of his youth, and she died in giving birth to 
Ithream. A name of this signification is common 
among the Arabs at the present day. — Smith, s. v. 
See also Eglatii. 

Eg'laim (Heb. Egla'yim , two ponds; Sept. 

’AyaXtip, Vulg. Gallim ), a place named in Isa. xv, 8, 
apparently as one of the most remote points on the 
boundary of Moab. It is probably the same as the 
Ex-eglaim (<j. v.) of Ezek. xlvii, 10. Eusebius and 
Jerome (O nomast. s. v. 'A yaXXtip, Agallcim ) say that 
it still existed in their day as a village (A iyaXXtip), 
eight miles south of Areoplis, i. e. Ar-Moab. Exact- 
ly in that position, however, stands Kerak,the ancient 
Kir-Moab. A town named Agalla ("AyaXXa) is men- 
tioned by Josephus with Zoar and other places as in 
the country of the Arabians (Ant. xiv, 1, 4). Some 
have also confounded it with Gallic (q. v.). De 
Saulcy conceives Eglaim to be the same with a place 
which he names Wady Ajerrah , not far north of the 
ruins of Rabbah, but on slender grounds (Dead Sea, i, 
202, 270). Sec also Eglatii ; Eglox 3. 

Egiath or Eglah (q. v.), in the phrase 
FT eglatii ' shelishigah' , Isa. xv, 5 ; Jer. xlviii, 

34, which literally signifies a heifer q/*the third year; 
Sept. cupaXiQ rpdrgQ (but v. r. ciytXia JUaXiaia in 
Jer.); Vulg. vitula conternans ; A. V. “a heifer three 
years old ;” and so the Targum, and most modern in- 
terpreters (Hitzig, Umbreit, etc.). Others (as Kno- 
bel, Winer, etc.) understand the term to be the proper 
name of a place on the border of Moab, mentioned in 
connection with Zoar, Luhith, and Horonaim (q. v. 
respectively), and so compare it with the Agalla of 
Josephus (Ant. xiv, 1, 4) and the Necla (or Jecla, Ni- 
uXa or 'igfcXrt) of Ptolemy (v, 17, 5), which lay in this 
region (Lightfoot, Ilor. Ilebr. p. 931), and with the 
modern region Ajlun north of Jabbok (Abulfetla, Syr. 
13, 93 ; Robinson, Research, iii, App. p. 102), as the last 
name has in Arab, the same signification as the Heb. 
See Eglaim. 

Eglinus, Raphael, also called Iconius, a minis- 
ter of the Reformed Church, was born at Riissicon, in 
the Swiss canton of Zurich, Dec. 28, 1559. After stud- 
ying theology at Zurich, Geneva, and Basel, he for 
some time taught school at Sonders, in the Ycltlin 
(now part of Lombardy) ; but, with the Protestants 
generally, he had to leave this place in 1580. After 
working for some time as teacher and “ diaconus” in 
Winterscheid, and as u piedagogus” at the college of 
the alumni at Zurich, he was, in 1592, appointed pro- 
fessor of the New Testament in the latter city. Be- 
coming absorbed in the study of theosophy and alche- 
my, he spent his whole property in experiments, and 
in 1001 had to flee on account of debts which he had 
contracted. Through the intercession of his friends 
he obtained, however, permission to return, and an 
) honorable dismission. He wont to Cassel, where land- 
L grave Moritz, himself a great friend of alchemy, ap- 
pointed him teacher at the court school, and later, 
June 13, 1000, professor of theology at Marburg. From 
the theological faculty of this university he received, 
in 1007, the title of D.D. Subsequently Moritz also 
appointed him court preacher at Marburg. lie died 
May 20, 1022. Eglinus was one of the first Reformed 
theologians in Hesse where landgrave Moritz and his 
successors endeavored to supplant Lutheranism by ’the 
Reformed Church. lie wrote in defence of his creed 
a number of small essays, the most important of which 
relate to the doctrine of predestination. He is one of 
those writers in whom the German reformed theology 
became more scholastic in its character, and was 
merged in the stricter Calvinistic tendency. In 1018 
Eglinus wrote an apology of the Rosicrucians, of 
which association he had become an active member, 
lie also wrote several books on alehvmy and on the 


EGLON 


75 


EGYPT 


Apocalypse. A complete list of his works is given by 
Strieder, Grundlage zu eincr kess. Gelehrten-Gesch . — 
Heppe, in Herzog, Retd-Encykhpiidie, xix, 456 ; Ha- 
genbach, Histoiy of Doctrines (edited by Smith), ii, 
175. (A.J.S.) 

Eg'lon (Heb. Eglon' , place of heifers , q. d. 

vituline), the name of a man, and also of two places. 

1. (Sept. 'EyXw/u, Josephus ’EyAwi', Vulgate Eglon .) 
An early king of the Moabites (Judg. iii, 12 sq.), who, 
aided by the Ammonites and the Amalekites, crossed 
the Jordan and took “the city of palm-trees,” or Jeri- 
cho (Josephus). B.C. 1527. Here he built himself a 
palace (Josephus, Ant . v, 4, 1 sq.), and continued for 
eighteen years to oppress the children of Israel, who 
paid him tribute (Josephus). AVhether he resided at 
Jericho permanently, or only during the summer 
months (Judg. iii, 20; Josephus), he seems to have 
formed a familiar intimacy (( juvi)0i]g , Josephus, not 
Judg.) with Ehud, a young Israelite {vtaviag, Jose- 
phus) who lived in Jericho (Josephus, not Judg.), and 
who, by means of repeated presents, became a favorite 
courtier of the monarch. Eglon subdued the Israel- 
ites beyond the Jordan, and the southern tribes on this 
side the river, and made Jericho the seat, or one of the 
seats, of his government. This subjection to a power 
always present must have been more galling to the 
Israelites than any they had previously suffered. At 
length (B.C. 1509) they were delivered, through the 
instrumentality of Ehud, who slew the Moabitish king 
(Judg. iii, 12-33). — Ivitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See 
Ehud. 

2. (Sept. ’EyAw^i v. r. A tAdp, but in Josh, x, ’OjoX- 
Xdfi ; Vulgate Eglon , A glon.') A city in the maritime 
plain of Judah, near Lachish (Josh, xv, 39), formerly 
one of the royal cities of the Canaanites (xii, 12). Its 
Amoritish king Dcbir (q. v.) formed a confederacy 
with the neighboring princes to assist Adoni-zedek, 
king of Jerusalem, in attacking Gibeon, because that 
city 5 ' had made peace with Joshua and the Israelites 
(Josh, x, 3, 4). Joshua met the confederated kings 
near Gibeon and routed them (Josh, x, 11). Eglon 
was soon after visited by Joshua and destroyed (x, 34, 
35). Eusebius and Jerome {Onomnst. s. v. ’EyAojp, 
Eglon) erroneously identify it with Odollam or Adul- 
i,am (q. v.), and say it was still “a large village,” ten 
It. miles (Jerome, twelve) east of Elcutheropolis, being 
misled by the unaccountable reading of the Sept, as 
above. On the road from Elcutheropolis to Gaza, 
nine miles from the former and twelve from the lat- 
ter, are the ruins of Ajlan, which mark the site of the 
ancient Eglon (Robinson, Researches, ii, 392). The site 
is now completely desolate. The ruins are mere shape- 
less heaps of rubbish, strewn over a low, white mound 
(Porter, Handb.for Syria, p. 262). The absence of 
more imposing remains is easily accounted for. The 
private houses, like those of Damascus, were built of 
sun-dried bricks ; and the temples and fortifications of 
the soft calcareous stone o‘f the district, which soon 
crumbles away. A large mound of rubbish, strewn 
with stones and pieces of potter}', is all we can now 
expect to mark the site of an ancient city in this plain 
(Van de Velde, Narrative , ii, 188 ; Thomson, Land and 
Rook, ii, 356). 

3. Another important place of this name Cp^iC*), 
according to Schwarz {Palest, p.235), is mentioned in 
Talmudical authorities as situated within the bounds 
of Gad. He identifies it with the present village A fun, 
one mile east of Ivnlat er-Rubud, or Wady Rejib, which 
runs parallel with Jebel Ajlun on the south (see Rob- 
inson’s Map, and comp. Researches , ii, 121). The vil- 
lage is built on both sides of the narrow rivulet Jenne, 
and contains nothing remarkable except a few ancient 
mosques (Burckhardt., Syria , p. 266). 

Egoism. See Selfishness. 

E'gypt (or, more strictly, sEgypt, since the word 


is but Anglicized from the Gr. and Lat. A\yinrTOQ % 
EEgyptus ), a region important from the earliest times, 
and more closely identified with Bible incidents than 
any other, except the Holy Land itself. For a vindi- 
cation of the harmony between Scripture history and 
the latest results of Egyptological research (Brugsch, 
Aus dem Orient , Bcrl. 1864), see Volck in the Dorpater 
Zeitschrift , 1867, ii, art. 2. 

I. Names . — The common name of Egypt in the Heb. 
Bible is Mizraim, Mitsra'yim (or, more fully, 

“the land of Mizraim”). In form Mizraim is a dual, 
and accordingly it is generally joined with a plural 
verb. IVhen, therefore, in Gen. x, 6, Mizraim is men- 
tioned as a son of Ilam, some conclude that nothing 
more is meant than that Egypt was colonized by de- 
scendants of Ham. See Mizraim. The dual number 
doubtless indicates the natural division of the country 
into an upper and a lower region, the plain of the Del- 
ta and the narrow valley above, as it has been com- 
monly divided at all times. The singular Mazor , 
Matsor', also occurs (2 Kings xix, 24 ; Isa. 
xxxvii, 25; perhaps as a proper name in Isa. xix, 6; 
Mic. vii, 12; A. V. always as an appellative, “besieged 
city,” etc.), and some suppose that it indicates Lower 
Egypt, the dual only properly meaning the whole 
country ; but there is no sure ground for this assertion. 
See Mazor. The mention of Mizraim and Pathros 
together (Isa. xi, 11 ; Jer. xliv, 1, 15), even if we adopt 
the explanation which supposes Mizraim to be in these 
places by a late usage put for Mazor, by no means 
proves that, since Pathros is a part of Egypt, Mizraim, 
or rather Mazor, ‘is here a part also. The mention of 
a part of a country by the same term as the whole is 
very usual in Hebrew phraseology. This designa- 
tion, at all events, is sometimes used for Egypt indis- 
criminately, and was by the later Arabs extended to 
the entire country. Josephus {Ant. i, 6, 2) says that 
all those who inhabit the country call it Mestre (MAx- 
tqi]), and the Egyptians Mestrwans (Mfrr-pato/). The 
natives of Modern Egypt invariably designate it by 
the name Misr, evidently cognate with its ancient 
Heb. appellation (Hackett’s lllustra. ef Scripture , p. 
120 ). 

Egypt is also called in the Bible EH “ the land 

of Ham” (Psa. cv, 23, 27 ; comp, lxxviii, 51), refer- 
ring to the son of Noah. See Ham. Occasionally 
(Psa. lxxxvii, 4; lxxxix, 10; Isa. Ii, 9) it is poetical- 
ly styled Ra'hab, SHH, i. e. “the proud” or “inso- 
lent.” See Raiiab. The common ancient Egyptian 


name of the country is -written in hieroglyphics 


SB 




KEM, which was probably pronounced Chem ; the de- 
motic form is KEM I (Brugsch , Geographische Inschrif- 
ien, i, 73, No. 362) ; and the Coptic forms are Chame or 
Chemi (Memphitic), Kenie or Kerne (Sahidic), and Kimi 
(Bashmuric). This name signifies, alike in the an- 
cient language and in Coptic, “black,” and may be 
supposed to have been given to the land on account of 
the blackness of its alluvial soil (comp. Plutarch, De Is. 
et Osir. c. 33). It would seem, however, to be rather 
a representative of the original Heb. name Ham (i. e. 
Cham), which likewise in the Shcmitic languages de- 
notes sun-burnt , as a characteristic of African tribes. 
The other hieroglyphic names of Egypt appear to be 
of a poetical character. 

The Greek and European name (») Aiyv7rroQ, EEgyp- 
tus), Egypt, is of uncertain origin and signification 
(Champollion, L'Egypie, i, 77). It appears, howev- 
er, to have some etymological connection witli the 
modern name Copt, and is perhaps nothing more than 
“land of the Copts” (the prefix a l- being perhaps for 
ala = y ala or yij). In Ilomer the Nile is sometimes 
{Odys. iv, 351, 355 ; xiv, 257, 258) called Egypt (At- 
yVTTTQQ). 


EGYPT 


EGYPT 


1(j 



II. Extent and Population . — Egypt occupies the 
north-eastern angle of Africa, between X. lat. 31° 37' 
and 24° 1', and E. long. 27° 23' and 34° 12'. On the 
E. it is bounded by Palestine, Idunnea, Arabia Pet rasa, 
and the Arabian Gulf. On the \V., the moving sands 
of the wide Libyan desert obliterate the traces of all 
political or physical limits. Inhabited Egypt, how- 


ever, is restricted to the valley of the Nile, which, hav- 
ing a breadth of from two to three miles, is enclosed 
on both sides by a range of hills : the chain on the 
eastern side disappears at Mokattam, that on the west 
extends to the sea. Its limits appear to have always 
been very nea ly the same. In Ezekiel (xxix, 10; 
xxx, G), according to the obviously correct rendering 



EGYPT 


Ti 


EGYPT 



(see Migdol), the whole country is spoken of as ex- 
tending from Migdol to Syene, which indicates the 
same limits to the east and the south as at present. 
Egypt seems, however, to have always been held, ex- 
cept by the modern geographers, to include no more 
than the tract irrigated by the Nile lying within the 
limits we have specified. The deserts were at all 
times wholly different from the valley, and their tribes 
more or less independent of the rulers of Egypt. Sy- 
ene, now Aswan, is also assigned by Greek and Ara- 
bian writers as the southern limit of Egypt. Here 
the Nile issues from the granite rocks of the cataracts, 
and enters Egypt proper. The length of the country, 
therefore, in a direct line, is 45G geographical miles. 
The breadth of the valley between Aswan and the 
Delta is very unequal ; in some places the inundations 
of the river extend to the foot of the mountains; in 
other parts there remains a strip of a mile or tw r o in 
breadth, which the water never covers, and which is 
therefore always dry and barren. Originally the name 
Egypt designated only this valley and the Delta ; but 


at a later period it came to include also the region be- 
tween this and the Red Sea from Berenice to Suez, a 
strong and mountainous tract, with only a few spots 
fit for tillage, but better adapted to pasturage. It in- 
cluded also, at this time, the adjacent desert on the 
west, as far as to the oases, those fertile and inhabit- 
ed islands in the ocean of sand. The name Delta , 
also, was extended so as to cover the districts between 
Pelusium and the border of Palestine, and Arabia 
Petrrea ; and on the west it included the adjacent tract 
as far as to the great deserts of Libya and Barca, a 
region of sand of three days’ journey east and west, 
and as many north and south. 

Egypt, in the extensive sense, contains 115,200 
square geographical miles, yet it has only a superfi- 
cies of about 9582 square geographical miles of soil, 
which the Nile either does or can w r ater and fertilize. 
This computation includes the river and lakes as well 
as sandy tracts which can be inundated, and the wdiole 
space either cultivated or fit for cultivation is no more 
than about 5G2G square miles. Anciently 2735 square 


EGYPT 


78 


EGYPT 


miles more may have been cultivated, and now it 
would be possible at once to reclaim about 1295 square 
miles. These computations are those of Colonel Ja- 
cotin and INI. Esteve, given in the Memoir of the for- 
mer in the great French work (. Description de VEgypte , 
2d ed. xviii, pt. ii, p. 101 sq.). They must be very 
nearly true of the actual state of the country at the 
present time. Mr. Lane calculated the extent of the 
cultivated land in A.D. 1375-0 to be 5500 square geo- 
graphical miles, from a list of the cultivated lands of 
towns and villages appended to De Sacy’s Abd-Alhitif. 
He thinks this list may be underrated. M. Mengin 
made the cultivated land much less in 1821, but since 
then much waste territory has been reclaimed (Mrs. 
Poole, Englishwoman in Egypt, i, 85). The chief dif- 
ferences in the character of the surface in the times 
before the Christian era were that the long valley 
through which flowed the canal between the Nile and 
the Red Sea was then cultivated, and that the Gulf of 
Suez perhaps extended further north than at present. 

As to the number of its inhabitants, nothing very 
definite is known. Its fertility would doubtless give 
birth to and support a teeming population. In very 
remote times as many as 8,000,000 souls are said to 
have lived on its soil. In the days of Diodorus Sicu- 
lus they were estimated at 3,000,000. Volney made 
the number 2,300,000. A late government estimate is 

3.200.000, which seems to have been somewhat below 
the fact (Bowring’s Report on Egypt and Candia , p. 4). 
According to the census taken in 18G7, the inhabitants 
are 4,911,019. Among them are half a million of 
Copts, descendants of the ancient occupants of the 
country; 400,000 Bedouins; 250,000 Europeans and 
Syrians; and 500,000 Turks. In Alexandria, at the 
close of the last century, scarcely 40,000 inhabitants 
were counted, whereas at present that city contains 

300.000, about half of whom are Arabs and half Euro- 
peans. The nationality of the latter has been ascer- 
tained to be as follows (the figures represent thou- 
sands): Greeks, 25; Italians, 18; French, 1G; Anglo- 
Maltese, 13; Syrians and natives of the Levant, 12; 
Germans and Swiss, 10; various, 0. Cairo, the cap- 
ital, contains upwards of 400,000 inhabitants ; with- 
in its walls are 140 schools, more than 400 mosques, 
11GG cafes, G5 public baths, and 11 bazars. The other 
towns of importance, from their population, are, in 
Lower Egypt, Damietta, 45,000; Rosetta, 20,000 ; and 
in Upper Egypt, Syout, on the left bank of the Nile, 
numbering 20,000 souls. 

III. Geographical Divisions. — Under the Pharaohs 
Egypt was divided into Upper and Lower, “the two 
regions” TA-TI ? called respectively “the ►Southern 
Region” TA-RES,and “the Northern Region” TAME- 
II IT. There were different crowns for the two regions, 
that of Upper Egypt being white, and that of Lower 
Egypt red, the two together composing the pskeiit. 
The sovereign had a special title as ruler of each re- 
gion : of Upper Egypt he was SUTEN, “king,” and 
of Lower Egypt SIIEBT, “bee,” the two combined 
forming the common title SUTEN-S11EBT. The in- 
itial sign of the former name is a bent reed, which il- 
lustrates what seems to have, been a proverbial expres- 
sion in Palestine as to the danger of trusting to the 
Pharaohs and Egypt (1 Kings xviii, 21 ; Isa. xxxvij 
G; Ezek. xxix, 6): the latter name may throw light 
upon the comparison of the king of Egypt to a fly, and 
the king of Assyria to a bee (Isa. v ii, 18). It must be 
remarked that Upper Egypt is always mentioned be- 
fore Lower Egypt, and that the crown of the former 
in the pshent rises above that of the latter. In sub- 
sequent times the same division continued. Manetlio 
speaks of it (ap. Josephus, c. Apion. i, 14), and under 
the Ptolemies it still prevailed. In the time of the 
Greeks and Romans, Upper Egypt was divided into 
the Ileptanomis and the Thebais, making altogether 
three provinces, but the division of the whole country 
into two was even then the most usual. The Thebais 


extended from the first cataract at Philre to Hermopo* 
lis, the Ileptanomis from Hermopolis to the point where 
the Delta begins to form itself. About A.D. 400 Egypt 
was divided into four provinces, Augustanuiiea Prima 
and Seennda, and yEgyptus Prima and Seeunda. The 
Heptanomis was called Arcadia, from the emperor Ar- 
cadius, and Upper Egypt was divided into Upper and 
Lower Thebais. 

From a remote period Egypt was subdivided into 
nomes (IIESPU, sing. 1IESP), each one of which had 
its special objects of worship. The monuments show 
that this division was as old as the earlier pa it of the 
twelfth dynasty, which began cir. B.C. 1900. They 
are said to have been first 3G in number ( Diod . Sic. i, 
54 ; Strabo, xvii, 1). Ptolemy enumerates 44, and 
Pliny 46; afterwards they were further increased. 
There is no distinct reference to them in the Bible. 
In the Sept, version, indeed, tlzb‘Z'2 (Isa. xix, 2) is 
rendered by vop oc;, but we have no warrant for trans- 
lating it otherwise than “kingdom.” It is probable 
that at that time there were two, if not three kingdoms 
in the country. Two provinces or districts of Egypt 
are mentioned in the Bible, Pathros (q. v.) and Caph- 
tor (q. v.) ; the former appears to have been part of 
Upper Egypt; the latter was evidently so, and must 
be represented by the Coptite nome, although no doubt 
of greater extent. The division into nomes was more 
or less maintained till the invasion of the Saracens. 
Egypt is now composed of 24 departments, which, ac- 
cording to the French system of geographical arrange- 
ment, are subdivided into arrondissements and cantons 
(Bowring’s Report ). 

IV. Surface , Climate , etc. — The general appearance 
of the country cannot have greatly changed since the 
days of Moses. The Delta was always a vast level 
plain, although of old more perfectly watered than 
now by the branches of the Nile and numerous canals, 
while the narrow valley of Upper Egypt must have 
suffered still less alteration. Anciently, however, the 
rushes must have been abundant ; whereas now they 
have almost disappeared, except in the lakes. The 
whole country is remarkable for its extreme fertility, 
which especially strikes the beholder when the rich 
green of the fields is contrasted with the utterly-bare 
yellow mountains or the sand-strewn rocky desert on 
either side. Thus the plain of Jordan, before the cit- 
ies were destroyed, was, we read, “well watered every- 
where” .... “[even] like a garden of the Lord, like 
the land of Egypt” (Gen. xiii, 10). The aspect of 
Egypt is remarkably uniform. The Delta is a richly- 
cultivated plain, varied only by the mounds of ancient 
cities and occasional groves of palms. Other trees are 
seldom met with. The valley in Upper Egypt is also 
richly cultivated. It is, however, very narrow, and 
shut in by low hills, rarely higher than 300 feet, which 
have the appearance of cliffs from the river, and are 
not often steep. They, in fact, form the border of the 
desert on either side, and the valley seems to have 
been, as it were, cut out of a table-land of rock. The 
valley is rarely more than twelve miles across. The 
bright green of the fields, the reddish-brown or dull 
green color of the great river, the tints of the bare 
yellow rocks, and the deep blue of the sky, always 
form a pleasant view, and often one of great beauty. 
The soil consists of the mud of the river, resting upon 
desert sands ; hence this country owes its existence, 
fertility, and beauty to the Nile, whose annual over- 
flow is indispensable for the purposes of agriculture. 
The country around Svene and the cataracts is highly 
picturesque ; the other parts of Egypt, and especially 
the Delta, are exceedingly uniform and monotonous. 
The prospect, however, is extremely different, accord- 
ing to the season of the year. From the middle of the 
spring season, when the harvest is over, one sees noth- 
ing but a gray and dusty soil, so full of cracks and 
chasms that he can hardly pass along. At the time 


EGYPT 


79 


EGYPT 


of the autumnal equinox, the whole country presents 
nothing but an immeasurable surface of reddish or yel- 
lowish water, out of which rise date-trees, villages, 
and narrow dams, which serve as a means of commu- 
nication. After the waters have retreated, which usu- 
ally remain only a short time at this height, you see, 
till the end of autumn, only a black and slimy mud. 
But in winter nature puts on all her splendor. In 
this season, the freshness and power of the new vege- 
tation, the variety and abundance of vegetable pro- 
ductions, exceed everything that is known in the most 
celebrated parts of the European continent ; and Egypt 
is then, from one end of the country to the other, noth- 
ing but a beautiful garden, a verdant meadow, a field 
sown with flowers, or a waving ocean of grain in the 
ear. 

The climate is very equable, and, to those who can 
bear great heat, also healthy; indeed, in the opinion 
of some, the climate of Egypt is one of the finest in 
the world. There are, however, unwholesome tracts 
of salt marsh which are to be avoided. Rain seldom 
falls except on the coast of the Mediterranean. At 
Thebes a storm will occur, perhaps, not oftener than 
once in four years. Cultivation nowhere depends 
upon rain or showers. This absence of rain is men- 
tioned in Deut. (xi, 10, 11) as rendering artificial irri- 
gation necessary, unlike the case of Palestine, and in 
Zech. (xiv, 18) as peculiar to the country. The at- 
mosphere is clear and shining ; a shade is not easily 
found. Though rain falls even in the winter months 
very rarely, it is not altogether wanting, as was once 
believed. Thunder and lightning are still more un- 
frequent, and are so completely divested of their ter- 
rific qualities that the Egyptians never associate with 
them the idea of destructive force. Showers of hail 
descending from the hills of Syria are sometimes 
known to reach the confines of Egypt. The forma- 
tion of ice is very uncommon. Dew is produced in 
great abundance. The wind blows from the north 
from May to September, when it veers round to the 
east, assumes a southerly direction, and fluctuates till 
the close of April. The southerty vernal winds, trav- 
ersing the arid sands of Africa, are most changeable 
as well as most unhealthy. They form the simoom or 
samiel, and have proved fatal to caravans and even to 
armies (View of Ancient and Modern Egypt , Edin. Cab. 
Library). 

Egypt has been visited at all ages by severe pesti- 
lences, but it cannot be determined that any of those 
of ancient times were of the character of the modern 
plague. The plague with which the Egyptians are 
threatened in Zech. (1. c.) is described by a word, 
P5E5*2, which is not specially applicable to a pestilence 
of their country (see ver. 12). See Botcii. Cutane- 
ous disorders, which have always been very prevalent 
in Egypt, are distinctly^ mentioned as peculiar to the 
country (Deut. vii, 15 ; xxviii, 27, 35, GO, and perhaps 
Exod. xv, 20, though here the reference may be to the 
plague of boils), and as punishments to the Israelites 
in case of disobedience, whereas if they obeyed they 
were to be preserved from them. The Egyptian cal- 
umny that made the Israelites a body of lepers and 
unclean (Joseph, c. Apion.) is thus refuted, and the 
traditional tale as to the Exodus given by Manetho 
shown to be altogether wrong in its main facts, which 
depend upon the truth of this assertion. Famines are 
frequent, and one in the Middle Ages, in the time of 
the Fatimite caliphate El-Mustansir-billah, seems to 
have been even more severe than that of Joseph. 
Mosquitoes, locusts, frogs, together with the small-pox 
and leprosy, are the great evils of the country. Oph- 
thalmia is also very prevalent. See Disease. 

V. The Nile . — Egypt is the land of the Nile, the 
country through which that river flows from the island 
of Pliila?, situated just above the Cataracts of Syene, 
in lat. 24° 1' 36", to Damietta, in 31° 35' N., where 


its principal stream pours itself into the Mediterranean 
Sea. In lat. 30° 15' the Nile divides into two prin- 
cipal streams, which, in conjunction with a third that 
springs somewhat higher up, forms the Delta, so called 
from its resemblance to the Greek letter A. At Khar- 
tum, 160 miles north of Senndr, the Nile forks into two 
rivers, called Bahr el-Abiad and Bahr el-Azrak, or the 
white and blue river, the former flowing from the west, 
the latter from the east. The blue river is the smaller 
of these, but it possesses the same fertilizing qualities 
as the Nile, and is of the same color. The sources of 
this river were discovered by Bruce ; those of the 
white river were, until quite recently, undiscovered. 
They are now known to flow from lakes situated 
among the mountains south of the equator (Beke, 
Sources of the Nile , Lond. 18G0). Most ancient writers 
mention seven mouths of the Nile, beginning from the 
east: 3, Pelusiac or Bubastic; 2, Saitic or Tanitic ; 3, 
Mendesian ; 4, Bucolic or Phatmetic (now of Damiet- 
ta) ; 5, Sebennytic ; G, Bolbitine (now of Rosetta) ; 7, 
Canopic or Heracleotic. 

The Nile is called in the Bible Shichor ', ‘V.lT'-uS, oi 
“the black (river);” also Yeor YliO, "150, “the riv- 
er.” As to the phrases "IT3, “the river of 

Egypt,” and ^H3, “the brook of Egypt,” it 

seems unlikely that the Nile should be so specified ; 
and ^H3 or "iPt3 here more probably denotes a moun- 
tain stream, usually dry, on the borders of Egypt and 
Palestine, near the modern El-Arish (Num. xxxiv, 5; 
Josh, xiii, 3, etc.). See Egypt, River of. Some 
have thought that ^H3 is the origin of the word 
Nile others have been anxious to find it in the San- 
scrit Nila , which means dark blue. The Indus is 
called Nil-ab, or “the blue river;” the Sutlej also is 
known as “the blue river.” It is to be observed that 
the Low Nile was painted blue by the ancient Egyp- 
tians. The river is turbid and reddish throughout the 
year, and turns green about the time when the signs 
of rising commence, but not long after becomes red 
and very turbid. The Coptic word is iom, “sea,” 
which corresponds to the Arab name for it, bahr, prop- 
erh r sea ; thus Nahum iii, 3, “ Populous No (Thebes), 
whose rampart was the sea.” In Egyptian the Nile 
bore the sacred appellation IIAPI, or HAPI-MU, 
“the abyss,” or “the abyss of waters.” As Egypt 
was divided into two regions, we find two Niles, 11A- 
PI-RES, “the Southern Nile,” and HAPI-MEHIT, 
“ the Northern Nile,” the former name being given to 
the river in Upper Egypt and in Nubia. The common 
appellation is ATUR, or AUK, “the river,” which 
may be compared with the Heb. Yeor. 

The inundation, HAPI-UR, “ great Nile,” or “ high 
Nile,” fertilizes and sustains the country, and makes 
the river its chief blessing, a very low inundation or 
failure of rising being the cause of famine. The Nile 
was on this account anciently worshipped, and the 
plague in which its waters were turned into blood, 
while injurious to the river itself and its fish (Exod. 
vii, 21; Psa. cv, 29), was a reproof to the superstition 
of the Egyptians. The rise begins in Egypt about 
the summer solstice, and the inundation commences 
about two months later. The greatest height is at- 
tained about or somewhat after the autumnal equinox. 
The inundation lasts about three months. During 
this time, and especially when near the highest, the 
river rapidly pours along its red turbid waters, and 
spreads through openings in its banks over the whole 
valley and plain. The prophet Amos, speaking of the 
ruin of Israel, metaphorically says that “the land . . . 
shall be drowned, as [by] the flood [river] of Egypt” 
(viii, 8; ix, 5). Owing to the yearly deposit of allu- 
vial matter, both the bed of the Nile and the land of 
Egypt are gradually raised. The river proceeds in its 
current uniformly and quietly at the rate of two and a 
half or three miles an hour, always deep enough for 


EGYPT 


SO 


EGYPT 


navigation. Its water is usually blue, but it becomes 
of a deep brick-red during the period of its overflow. 
It is salubrious for drinking, meriting the encomiums 
which it has so abundantly received. On the river 
the land is wholly dependent. If the Kile does not 
rise a sufficient height, sterility and dearth, if not fam- 
ine, ensue. An elevation of sixteen fathoms is essen- 
tial to secure the prosperity of the country. Such, 
however, is the regularity of nature, and such the 
faithfulness of God, that for thousands of years, with 
but few and partial exceptions, these inundations have 
in essential particulars been the same. The waters 
of the stream are conveyed over the surface of the 
country by canals when natural channels fail. Dur- 
ing the overflow the land is literally inundated, and 
has the appearance of a sea dotted with islands. Wher- 
ever the waters reach abundance springs forth. The 
cultivator has scarcely more to do than to scatter the 
seed. No wonder that a river whose waters are so 
grateful, salubrious, and beneficial should in days of 
ignorance have been regarded as an object of worship, 
and that it is still revered and beloved. See Kile. 

VI. Geology . — The fertile plain of the Delta and the 
valley of Upper Egypt are bounded by rocky deserts 
covered or strewn with sand. On either side of the 
plain they are low, but they overlook the valley, above 
which they rise so steeply as from the river to present 
the aspect of cliffs. The formation is limestone as far 
as a little above Thebes, where sandstone begins. The 
First Cataract, the southern limit of Egypt, is caused 
b} T granite and other primitive rocks, which rise 
through the sandstone and obstruct the river’s bed. 
In Upper Egypt the mountains near the Kile rarely 
exceed 300 feet in height, but far in the eastern des- 
ert they often attain a much greater elevation. The 
highest is Jebel Gharib, which rises about (3000 feet 
above tli * sea. Limestone, sandstone, and granite 
were obtained from (juarries near the river; basalt, 
breccia, and porphyry from others in the eastern des- 
ert between the Thebais and the Red Sea. A geologi- 
cal change has, it is thought, in the course of centuries 
raised the country near the head of the Gulf of Suez, 
and depressed that on the northern side of the isthmus. 
The Delta is of a triangular form, its eastern and west- 
ern limits being nearly marked by the courses of the 
ancient Pelusiac and Canopic branches of the Nile: 
Upper Egypt is a narrow winding valley, varying in 
breadth, but seldom more than twelve miles across, 
and generally broadest on the western side. Ancient- 
ly there was a fertile valley on the course of the Canal 
of the Red Sea, the Land of Goshen (q. v.), now called 
Wady Tnmeilat: this is covered with the sands of the 
desert. To the south, on the opposite side, is the oasis 
now called the Feyum, the old Arsinoi'te Nome, con- 
nected with the valley by a neck of cultivated land. 

VII. Agriculture , etc. — The ancient prosperity of 
Egypt is attested by the Bible, as well as by the nu- 
merous monuments of the country. As early as the 
age of the Great Pyramid it must have been densely 
populated and well able to support its inhabitants, for 
it cannot be supposed that there was then much exter- 
nal traffic. In such a climate the wants of man are 
few, and nature is liberal in necessary food. Even 
the Israelites in their hard bondage did “eat freely” 
the fish, and the vegetables, and fruits of the country, 
and ever afterwards they longed to return to the idle 
plenty of a land where even now starvation is un- 
known. The contrast of the present state of Egypt 
with its former prosperity is more to be ascribed to polit- 
ical than to physical causes. It is true that the branch- 
es of the Nile have failed, the canals and the artificial 
lakes and ponds for fish are dried up ; that the reeds 
and other water-plants which were of value in com- 
merce, and a shelter for wild-fowl, have in most parts 
perished ; that the Land of Goshen, once, at least for 
pasture, “ the best of the Iand”'(Gen. xlviiyfi, 11), is 
now sand-strewn ami unwatered, so as scarcely to be 


| distinguished from the desert around, and that the 
predictions of the prophets have thus received a literal 
fulfilment (see especially Isa. xix, 5-10), yet this has 
not been l»y any irresistible aggression of nature, but 
I because Egypt, smitten and accursed, has lost all 
; strength and energy. The population is not large 
enough for the cultivation of the land now fit for cul- 
; ture, and long oppression lias taken from it the power 
: and the will to advance. 

| Egypt is naturally an agricultural country. As far 
back as the days of Abraham, we find that when the 
produce failed in Palestine, Egypt was the natural re- 
; source. In the time of Joseph it was evidently the 
| granary — at least during famines — of the nations 
around (Gen. xii, 10; comp. Exod. xvi, 3; Josephus, 
Ant. xv, 0, 2). The inundation, as taking the place 
of rain, has always rendered the system of agriculture 
peculiar ; and the artificial irrigation during the time 
of low Nile is necessarily on the same principle. We 
read of the Land of Promise that it is “ not as the land 
of Egypt, from whence ye came out, where thou sow- 
edst thy seed, and wateredst [it] with thy foot, as a 
garden of herbs : but the land whither thou goest in 
to possess it, [is] a land of bills and valleys, [and] 
drinketh water of the rain of heaven” (Dent. xi,A0, 
11). Watering with the foot may refer to some mode 
of irrigation by a machine, but we are inclined to think 
that it is an idiomatic expression implying a laborious 
work. The monuments do not afford a representation 
of the supposed machine. That now called the sha- 
duf, which is a pole having a weight at one end and 
a bucket at the other, so hung that the laborer is aided 
by the weight in raising the full bucket, is depicted, 
and seems to have been the common means of artifi- 
cial irrigation (q. v.). There are detailed pictures of 
breaking up the earth, or ploughing, sowing, harvest, 
threshing, and storing the wheat in granaries. See 
Agriculture. The threshing was simply treading 
out by oxen or cows, unmuzzled (comp. Dent, xxv, 4). 
The processes of agriculture began as soon as the wa- 
ter of the inundation had sunk into the soil, about a 
month after the autumnal equinox (Exod. ix, 31, 32) 
Vines were extensively cultivated, and there were 
several different kinds of wine, one of which, the 3\Ia- 
reotic, was famous among the Romans. Of other 
fruit-trees, the date-palm was the most common and 
valuable. The gardens resembled the fields, being 
watered in the same manner hv irrigation. See Gar- 
den ; Vineyard. On the tenure of land much light 
is thrown by the history of Joseph. Before the fam- 
I ine each city and large village — for “P" must be held 
to have a wider signification than our “city” — had its 
! field (Gen. xli, 48); but Joseph gained for Pharaoh 
all the land, except that of the priests, in exchange 
for food, and required for the right thus obtained a 
I fifth of the produce, which became a law (xlvii, 20-26). 
The evidence of the monuments, though not very ex- 
plicit, seems to show that this law was ever afterwards 
in force under the Pharaohs. There does not seem to 
have been any hereditary aristocracy, except perhaps 
I at an earlier time, and it is not impossible that these 
lands may have been held during tenure of office or 
| for life. The temples had lands which of course were 
! inalienable. Diodorus Siculus states that all the lands 
belonged to the crown except those of the priests and 
the soldiers (i, 73). It is probable that the latter, 
when not employed on active service, received no pay, 
but were supported by the crown lands, and occupied 
them for the time as their own. See Land. 

The great lakes in the north of Egypt were ancient- 
ly of high importance, especially for their fisheries 
and the growth of the papyrus. Lake Menzeleh, the 
most eastern of the existing lakes, has still large fish- 
eries, which support the people who live on its islands 
and shore, the rude successors of the independent 
Egyptians of the Bucolia. Lake Moeris, anciently so 


EGYPT 


81 


EGYPT 


celebrated, was an artificial lake between Beni-Suweif 
and Medinet el-Feyum. It was of use to irrigate tbe 
neighboring country, and its fisheries yielded a great 
revenue. See Angling. It is now entirely dried 
up. The canals are now far less numerous than of 
old, and many of them are choked and comparatively 
useless. The Bahr Yusuf, or “river of Joseph” — not 
the patriarch, but the famous sultan Yusuf Salah-ed- 
deen, who repaired it — is a long series of canals, near 
the desert on the west side of the river, extending 
northward from Farshut for about 350 miles to a little 
below Memphis. This was probably a work of very 
ancient times. There can be no doubt of the high an- 
tiquity of the canal of the Red Sea, upon which the 
Land of Goshen mainly depended for its fertility. It 
does not follow, however, that it originally connected 
the Nile and the Red Sea. 

VIII. Botany . — The cultivable land of Egypt con- 
sists almost wholly of fields, in which are very few 
trees. There are no forests and few groves, except 
of date-palms, and in Lower Egypt a few of orange and 
lemon trees. There are also sycamores, mulberry- 
trees, and acacias, either planted on the sides of roads 
or standing singly in the fields. The Theban palm 
grows in the Thebais, generally in clumps. All these, 
except, perhaps, the mulberry-tree, w r ere anciently 
common in the country. The two kinds of palm are 
represented on the monuments, and sycamore and aca- 
cia-wood are the materials of various objects made by 
the ancient inhabitants. The chief fruits are the date, 
grape, fig, sycamore-fig, pomegranate, banana, many 
kinds of melons, and the olive; and there are many 
others less common or important. These were also of 
old produced in the country. Anciently gardens seem 
to have received great attention, to have been elabo- 
rately planned, and well filled with trees and shrubs. 
Now horticulture is neglected, although the modern 
inhabitants are as fond of flowers as were their prede- 
cessors. The vegetables are of many kinds and ex- 
cellent, and form the chief food of the common people. 
Anciently cattle seem to have been more numerous, 
and their meat, therefore, more usually eaten, but 
never as much so as in colder climates. The Israel- 
ites in the desert, thongli they looked back to the time 
when they “ sat by the flesh-pots” (Exod. xvi, 3), seem 
as much to have regretted the vegetables and fruits, 
as the flesh and fish of Egypt. “Who shall give us 
flesh to eat ? We remember the fish which we did eat 
in Egypt freely, the cucumbers, and the melons, and 
the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic” (Num. xi, 4, 
5). The chief vegetables now are beans, peas, lentils, 
of which an excellent thick pottage is made (Gen. 
xxv, 34), leeks, onions, garlic, radishes, carrots, cab- 
bages, gourds, cucumbers, the tomato, and the egg- 
fruit. There are many besides these. The most im- 
portant field-produce in ancient times was wheat ; af- 
ter it must be placed barley, millet, flax, and, among 
the vegetables, lentils, peas, and beans. At the pres- 
ent day the same is the case ; but maize, rice, oats, 
clover, the sugar-cane, roses, the tobacco-plant, hemp, 
and cotton, must be added, some of which are not in- 
digenous. In the account of the plague of hail four 
kinds of field-produce are mentioned — flax, barley, 
wheat, and Pi'CSZ (Exod. ix, 31, 32), which is various- 
ly rendered in the A.V. “rye” (1. c.), “spelt” (Isa. 
xxviii, 25), and “ fitches” (Isa. xxviii, 27). It is doubt- 
ed whether the last be a cereal or a leguminous prod- 
uct: we incline to the former opinion. See Rye. 

It is clear from the evidence of the monuments and 
of ancient writers that, of old, reeds were far more 
common in Egypt than now. The byblus or papyrus 
is almost or quite unknown. Anciently it was a com- 
mon and most important plant: boats were made of 
its stalks, and of their thin leaves the famous paper 
was manufactured. It appears to be mentioned under 
two names in the Bible, neither of which, however, can 
III. — F 


be proved to be a peculiar designation for it. (1.) 
The mother of Moses made N'C-i HZP1, “an ark” or 
“skiff” “of papyrus,” in which to put her child (Exod. 
ii, 3), and Isaiah tells of messengers sent apparently 
from farthest Ethiopia in “vessels of papy- 

rus” (xviii, 2), in both which cases must mean 
papyrus, although it would seem in other places to 
signify “reeds” generically. (2.) Isaiah prophesies, 
“ The papyrus-reeds (r’HZ) in the river (I’lSO), on the 
edge of the river, and everything growing [lit. sown] 
in the river shall be dried up, driven away [by the 
wind], and [shall] not be” (xix, 7). Gesenius renders 
a naked or bare place, here grassy places on the 
banks of the Nile. Apart from the fact that little 
grass grows on the banks of the Nile, in Egypt, and 
that little only during the cooler part of the year, in- 
stead of those sloping meadows that must have been 
in the European scholar’s mind, this word must mean 
some product of the river which with the other water- 
plants should he dried up, and blown away, and utter- 
ly disappear. Like the fisheries and the flax men- 
tioned with it, it ought to hold an important place in 
the commerce of ancient Egypt. In can therefore 
scarcely be reasonably held to intend anything but the 
papyrus. See Papek Reed. 

The marine and fluvial product tj!lD, from which the 
Red Sea was called will be noticed under 

Red Sea. The lotus was anciently the favorite flow- 
er, and at feasts it took the place of the rose among 
the Greek and Arabs : it is now very rare. ■ 

IX. Zoology . — Anciently Egypt was far more a pas- 
toral country than at present. The neat cattle are still 
excellent, but lean kine are more common among them 
than they seen? to have been in the days of Joseph’s 
Pharaoh (Gen. xli, 19). Sheep and goats have always 
been numerous. Anciently swine were kept, but not 
in great numbers ; now there are none, or scarcely 
any, except a few in the houses of Copts and Franks. 
The Egyptian oxen were celebrated in the ancient 
world (Aristot. 1 list. Anim. viii, 28). — Horses abound- 
ed (1 Kings x, 28); hence the use of war-chariots in 
fight (Isa. xxxi, 1 ; Diod. Sic. i, 45), and the celebrity 
of Egyptian charioteers (Jer. xlvi, 4; Ezek. xvii, 15). 
Under the Pharaohs the horses of the country were in 
repute among the neighboring nations, who purchased 
them as well as chariots out of Egypt. Thus it is 
commanded respecting a king of Israel: “He shall 
not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to 
return to Egypt, to the end that he should multiply 
horses: forasmuch as the Lord hath said unto you, Ye 
shall henceforth return no more that way” (Deut. 
xvii, 16), which shows that the trade in horses was 
with Egypt, and would necessitate a close alliance. 
“ Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen 
yarn : the king’s merchants received the linen yarn 
at a price. And a chariot came up and went out of 
Egypt for six hundred [shekels] of silver, and a 
horse for a hundred and fifty; and so for all the 
kings of the Ilittites and for the kings of Syria did 
they bring [them] out by their hand” (1 Kings x, 28, 
29). The number of horses kept by this king for char- 
iots and cavalry was large (iv, 26; x, 26; 2 Cliron. i, 
14; ix, 25). Some of these horses came as yearly 
tribute from his vassals (1 Kings x, 25). In later 
times the prophets reproved the people for trusting in 
the help of Egypt, and relying on the aid of her horses 
and chariots and horsemen, that is, probably, men in 
chariots, as we shall show in speaking of the Egyptian 
armies. The kings of the Ilittites, mentioned in the 
passage quoted above, and in the account of the close 
of the siege of Samaria by Benhadad, where we read, 
“ The Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear a 
noise of chariots, and a noise of horses, [even] the 
noise of a great host : and they said one to another, 
Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us the kings 


EGYPT 


82 


EGYPT 


of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians to come 
upon us” (2 Kings vii, 6) — these kings ruled the Hit- 
tites of the valley of the Orontes, who were called by 
the Egyptians S1IETA or KHETA. The Pharaohs 
of the 18th, 19tli, and 20th dynasties waged fierce wars 
with these Hittites, who were then ruled by a great 
king and many chiefs, and whose principal arm was a 
force of chariots, resembling those of the Egyptian 
army. — Asses were anciently numerous : the breed at 
the present time is excellent. — Buffaloes are common, 
and not wild. — Dogs were formerly more prized than 
now ; for, being held by most of the Moslems to be 
extremely unclean, they are only used to watch the 
houses in the villages. — Cats are as numerous, but 
less favored. — The camel has nowhere been found 
mentioned in the inscriptions of Egypt, or represented 
on the monuments. In Ihe Bible Abraham is spoken 
of as having camels when in Egypt, apparently as a 
gift from Pharaoh (Gen. xii, 16), and before the Exo- 
dus the camels of Pharaoh or his subjects were to be 
smitten by the murrain (Exod. ix, 3 ; comp. 6). Both 
these Pharaohs may have been shepherds. The Ish- 
maelites or Midianites who took Joseph into Egypt 
carried their merchandise on camels (Gen. xxxvii, 
25, 28, 36), and the land traffic of the Arabs must al- 
ways have been by caravans of camels ; but it is prob- 
able that camels were not kept in Egypt, but only on 
the frontier. On the black obelisk from Nimrud, 
now in the British Museum, which is of Shalmanubar, 
king of Assyria, contemporary with Jehu and Hazael, 
camels are represented among objects sent as tribute 
by Egypt. They are of the two-humped sort, which, 
though perhaps then common in Assyria, has never, 
so far as is known, been kept in Egypt. — The deserts 
have always abounded in wild animals, especially of 
the canine and antelope kinds. The wolf, fox, jackal, 
hyena, wild cat, weasel, ichneumon, jerboa, and hare 
are also met with. — Anciently the hippopotamus was 
found in the Egyptian Nile, and hunted. This is a 
fact of importance for those who suppose it to be the 
behemoth (q. v.) of the book of Job, especially as that 
book shows evidence of a knowledge of Egypt. Now 
this animal is rarely seen even in Lower Nubia. — The 
elephant may have been, in the remotest historical 
period, an inhabitant of Egypt, and, as a land animal, 
have been driven further south than his brother pachy- 
derm, for the name of the island of Elephantine, just 
below the First Cataract, in hieroglyphics, AB . . “El- 
ephant-land,” seems to show that lie was anciently 
found there. — Bats abound in the temples and tombs, 
filling the dark and desecrated chambers and passages 
with the unearthly whirr of their wings. Such deso- 
lation is represented by Isaiah when he says that a 
man shall cast his idols “to the moles and to the bats” 
(ii, 20). See each animal in its place. 

The birds of Egypt are not remarkable for beauty 
of plumage: in so open a country this is natural. The 
Rapaces are numerous, but the most common are scav- 
engers, as vultures and the kite. Eagles and falcons 
also are plentiful. Quails migrate to Egypt in great 
numbers. The Grullatores and Ansei'cs abound on the 
islands and sand-banks of the river, and in the sides 
of the mountains which approach or touch the stream. 

Among the reptiles, the crocodile (q. v.) must be es- 
pecially mentioned. In the Bible it is usually called 
■piPi, t^SPl, “dragon,” a generic word of almost as 
wide a signification as “reptile,” and is used as a 
symbol of the king of Egypt. Thus, in Ezekiel, “ Be- 
hold, I am against thee, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, the 
great dragon that lietli in the midst of his rivers, 
which hath said, My river [is] mine own, and I have 
made [it] for myself. But I will put hooks in thv 
jaws, and 1 will cause the fish of thy rivers to stick 
unto thy scales, and I will bring thee up out of the 
midst of thy rivers, and all the'fisli of thy rivers shall 
stick unto thy scales. And I will leave thee [thrown] 


into the wilderness, thee and all the fish of thy rivers. 
... I have given thee for meat to the beasts of the 
field and to the fowls of the heaven” (xxix, 3, 4, 5). 
Here there seems to be a retrospect of the Exodus 
(which is thus described in Isa. li, 9, 10, and 15), and 
with a more close resemblance in Psa. lxxiv, 13, 14, 
“Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou 
brakest the heads of the dragons (D^iri) in the wa- 
ters. Thou brakest the heads of leviathan (“(T^b) in 
pieces, [and] gavest him [to be] meat to the dwellers 
in the wilderness” (C^S, i. e. to the wild beasts ; comp. 
Isa. xiii, 21). The last passage is important as indi- 
cating that whereas is the Hebrew generic name 
of reptiles, and therefore used for the greatest of them, 
the crocodile, is the special name of that animal. 

The description of leviathan in Job (xli) fully bears 
out this opinion, and it is doubtful if any passage can 
be adduced in which a wider signification of the latter 
word is required. In Job (xxvi, 12) also there is an 
apparent allusion to the Exodus in words similar to 
those in Isaiah (Ii, 9, 10, and 15 ?), but without men- 
tion of the dragon. In this case the division of the 
sea and the smiting of Rahab, 2.rn, the proud or inso- 
lent, are mentioned in connection with the wonders 
of creation (ver. 7-11, 13) : so, too, in Isaiah (ver. 13, 
15). The crossing of the Red Sea could be thus spo- 
ken of as a signal exercise of the divine power. — Frogs 
are very numerous in Egypt, and their loud and con- 
stant croaking in the autumn in “the streams,” 
rhija, “the rivers,” D“HjO, and “the ponds” or 
“marshes,” (Exod. viii, 1, A. V. 5), makes it 

not difficult to picture the Plague of Frogs. — Serpents 
and snakes are also common, including the deadly ce- 
rastes and the cobra di capello ; but the more venom- 
ous have their home in the desert (comp. Deut. viii, 
15). 

The Nile and lakes have an abundance of fishes; 
and although the fisheries of Egypt have very greatly 
fallen away, their produce is still a common article of 
food. 

Among the insects the locusts must be mention- 
ed, which sometimes come upon the cultivated land 
in a cloud, and, as in the plague, eat every herb, and 
fruit, and leaf where they alight ; hut they never, as 
then, overspread the whole land (Exod. x, 3-6, 12- 
19). They disappear as suddenly as they come, and 
are carried away by the wind (ver. 19). As to the 
lice and flies, they are now plagues of Egypt, hut it is 
not certain that the words C23 and Z^V designate 
them (Exod. viii, 16-31). The daugerous scorpion is 
frequently met with. Beetles of various kinds are 
found, including the sacred scarabanis. Bees and silk- 
worms are kept, but the honey is not very good, and 
the silk is inferior to that of Syria. 

X. Ancient Inhabitants . — The old inhabitants of 
Egypt appear from their monuments and the testimony 
of ancient writers to have occupied in race a place be- 
tween the Nigritians and the Caucasians. The con- 
stant immigrations of Arab settlers have greatly di- 
minished the Nigritian characteristics in the general- 
ity of the modern Egyptians. The most recent in- 
quiries have shown that the extreme limit at Philae 
was only of a political nature, for the natives of the 
country below it were of the same race as those who 
lived above that spot — a tribe which passed down into 
the fertile valley of the Nile from its original abode in 
the south. These Ethiopians and the Egyptians were 
not negroes, but a branch of the great Caucasian fam- 
ily. Their frame was slender, but of great strength. 
Their faces appear to have been oval in shape, and 
narrower in the men than in the women. The fore- 
head was well-shaped, but small and retiring ; the e3 r es 
were almond-shaped and mostly black : the hair was 
long, crisp, and generally black ; the skin of the men 


EGYPT 


83 


EGYPT 




Ancient Profiles (from the Monument?) : 1. Egypto-Ethiopian 
(the Tirhake of Scripture) ; 2, 4. Ethiopian ; 3. Egyptian. 

was dark brown, chiefly from exposure; that of the 
women was olive-colored or even lighter. The women 
were very fruitful (Strabo, xv, p. 695 ; Heeron, Ideen , 
xi, 2, 10). The ancient dress was far more scanty 
than the modern, and in this matter, as in manners 
and character, the influence of the Arab race is also 
very apparent. The ancient Egyptians. in character 
were very religious and contemplative, but given to 
base superstition, patriotic, respectful to women, hos- 
pitable, generally frugal, but at times luxurious, very 
sensual, lying, thieving, treacherous, and cringing, and 
intensely prejudiced, through pride of race, against 
strangers, although kind to them. This is very much 
the character of the modern inhabitants, except that 
Mohammedanism has taken away the respect for wom- 
en. The ancient Egyptians arc indeed the only early 
Eastern nation that we know to have resembled the 
modern Westerns in this particular; but we find the 
same virtue markedly to characterize the Nigritian s 
of our day. That the Egyptians in general treated 
the Israelites with kindness while they were in their 
country, even during the oppression, seems almost cer- 
tain from the privilege of admission into the congre- 
gation in the third generation, granted to them in the 
Law, with the Edomites, while the Ammonites and 
Moabites were absolutely excluded, the reference in 
three out of the four cases being to the stay in Egypt, 
and the entrance into Palestine (Dent, xxiii, 3-8). 
This supposition is important in its bearing on the his- 
tory of the oppression. 

XI. Language. — The ancient Egyptian language, 
from the earliest period at which it is known to ns, is 
an agglutinate monosyllabic form of speech. It is ex- 
pressed by the signs which we call hieroglyphics. The 
character of the language is compound : it consists of 
elements resembling those of the Nigritian languages 
and the Chinese language on the one hand, and those 
of the Shemitic languages on the other. All those who 
have studied the African languages make a distinct 
family of several of those languages, spoken in the 
north-east quarter of the continent, in which family 
they include the ancient Egyptian ; while every She- 
mitic scholar easily recognises in Egyptian, Shemitic 
pronouns and other elements, and a predominantly 
Shemitic grammar. As in person, character, and re- 
ligion, so in language we find two distinct elements, 
mixed but not fused, and here the Nigritian element 
seems unquestionably the earlier. Bunsen asserts 
that this language is “ ante-historical Shemitism we 
think it enough to say that no Shemitic scholar has ac- 
cepted his theory. For a full discussion of the ques- 
tion, see Poole, The Genesis of the Earth and of Man , 


chap. vi. As early as the age of the 26th dynasty, a 
vulgar dialect was expressed in the demotic or encho- 
rial writing. This dialect forms the link connecting 
the old language with the Coptic or Christian Egyp- 
tian, the latest phase. The Coptic does not very great- 
ly differ from the monumental language, distinguished 
in the time of the demotic as the sacred dialect, except 
in the presence of many Greek words. See Coptic 
Language. 

The language of the ancient Egyptians was entirely 
unknown until the discoveries made by Dr. Young 
from the celebrated Rosetta stone, now preserved in 
the British Museum. This stone is a slab of black 
marble, which was found by the French in August, 
1799, among the ruins of Fort St. Julien, on the west- 
ern bank, and near the mouth of the Rosetta branch 
of the Nile. It contains a decree in three different 
kinds of writing, referring to the coronation of Ptole- 
Tny V (Epiphanes), and is supposed to have been sculp- 
tured B.C. cir. 195. As part of the inscription is in 
Greek, it was easily deciphered, and was found to state 
that the decree was ordered to be written in sacred, 
enchorial, and Greek characters. Thence, by careful- 
ly comparing the three inscriptions, a key was obtain- 
ed to the interpretation of the mysterious hieroglyph- 
ics. The language which they express closely resem- 
bles that which was afterwards called Coptic when 
the people had become Christians. It is monosyllabic 
in its roots, and abounds in vowels. There were at 
least two dialects of it, spoken respectively in Upper 
and Lower Egypt. See Rosetta Stone. 

“ The wisdom of Egypt” was a phrase which, at an 
early period, passed into a proverb, so high was the 
opinion entertained by antiquity of the knowledge and 
skill of the ancient Egyptians (1 Kings iv, 30; Herod, 
ii, 160 ; Josephus, A nt. viii, 25 ; Acts vii, 22). Nor, as 
the sequel of this article will show, were there want- 
ing substantial reasons for the current estimate. If, 
however, antiquity did not on this point exceed the 
bounds of moderation, very certain is it that men of 
later ages are chargeable with the utmost extrava- 
gance in the terms which they employed when speak- 
ing on the subject. It was long thought that the hie- 
roglyphical inscriptions on the monumental remains 
of Egypt contained treasures of wisdom no less bound- 
less than hidden ; and, indeed, hieroglyphics were, in 
the opinion of some, invented by the priests of the 
land, if not expressly to conceal their knowledge from 
the profane vulgar, yet as a safe receptacle and con- 
venient storehouse for their mysterious but invaluable 
doctrines. Great, consequently, was the expectation 
of the public when it was announced that a key had 
been discovered which opened the portal to these long- 
concealed treasures. The result has not been altogeth- 
er correspondent, especially with regard to the pre- 
sumed secrets of ancient lore. Men of profound learn- 
ing, great acuteness of mind, and distinguished repu- 
tation have engaged and persevered in the inquiry : it 
is impossible to stud}’' without advantage the writings 
of such persons as Zoega, Akerblad, Young, Cbampol- 
lion,Spolin, Seyffarth, lvosegarten, Riihle; and equal- 
ly ungrateful would it be to affirm that no progress 
has been made in the undertaking ; but, after all, the 
novel conclusions and positions which have been drawn 
and set forth are only in a few cases (comparatively) 
definite and unimpeachable (Heeren,/c/««,ii, 2,4; Qua- 
tremcre , , Recherches sur la. longue tt la litterature de 
VEgypte). See Hieroglyphics. The results in point 
of history and archaeology, as detailed by Lepsius, 
Brugscli, and other late Egyptologists, are far more 
important than in a purely scientific view. See below. 

XII. Religion . — The basis of the religion was Nigri- 
tian fetich ism, the lowest kind of nature-worship, dif- 
fering in different parts of the country, and hence ob- 
viously indigenous. Upon this were engrafted, first, 
cosmic worship, mixed up with traces of primeval rev- 
elation, as in Babylonia ; and then a system of per- 


EGYPT 


84 


EGYPT 


tonifications of moral and intellectual abstractions. 
The incongruous character of the religion necessitates 
this supposition, and the ease with which it admitted 
extraneous additions in the historical period confirms 
it. There were, according to Herodotus, three orders 
of gods — the eight great gods, who were the most an- 
cient, the twelve lesser, and the Osirian group. They 
were represented in human forms, sometimes having 
the heads of animals sacred to them, or bearing on 
their heads cosmic or other objects of worship. The 
fetichism included, besides the worship of animals, that 
of trees, rivers, and hills. Each of these creatures or 
objects was appropriated to a divinity. There was no 
prominent hero-worship, although deceased kings and 
other individuals often received divine honors — in one 
case, that of Osirtasen II, of the 12th dynasty, the old 
Sesostris, of a very special character. The great doc- 
trines of the immortality of the soul, man’s respon- 
sibility, and future rewards and punishments, were 
taught. Among the rites, circumcision is the most re- 
markable : it is as old as the time of the 4tli dynasty. 

Wilkinson gives us the following classification of 
the Egyptian deities ( [Materia Ilierogbjphica , p. 5S, 
modified by himself in Rawlinson’s Herod, ii, 241 sq.) : 
T. First Order. 

1. Amen, or Amnn-rn, “ the king of all the gods.” 

2. Miiut, or Mut (Sanehou. mot), the material principle, 

sometimes as Buto (^=Latona). 

3. Noam, Xu, Xef, or Kuepli— Mercury. 

4 Site— Juno. 

5. Ptlinh, or Ptah, the creative power [a function assigned by 
others to Kueph]r : Vulcan. 

f>. Neith, self-born and of masculine characterful inerva. 

7. Khem, the generative principle {phallus). 

8. Pasht=Diana. 

II. Second Order. 

1. Re, Ra, or Phrah, the Sun, father of many deities, often 

combined with those of the others. 

2. Seb, the Earthf Saturn, father of the inferior gods. 

3. Xetpe, wife of Seb, the Sky, mother of gods— Rhea. 

4 Khous, son of Anmn and Mailt, the Moonf Hercules. 

5. Anouke [Fire]=Vesta. 

6. Atmu [?or Mat], Darkness, or Twilight. 

7. Mui, or Shu, son of Re, Light [= Phoebus]. 

S. Taphne (Daphne), or Tafnet, a lion-headed goddess. 

9. Tlioth, the Intellectf Ilermcs and the Moon. 

10. Sanak-re, or Sebak. 

11. Eilithyiaf Lucina. 

12. Maudu, or Munt=Mars. 

III. Tuikd Order. 

o’ son an( l daughter of Seb and Netp6. 

3. Aroeris, the elder Ilorus, son of XetptL 

4. Seth, or Typhon, the destructive principle [Death]. 

5. Xepthvs (Nebtei), “ lady of the house”f Vesta. 

0. Ilorus the younger, god of Victory^ Apollo. 

T. llarpocrates, son of Osiris and Isis, emblem of Youth. 

8. Anubis, son of Osiris. 

IV. Miscellaneous. 

1. Thmei, or Ma (Bc/us), goddess of Truth and Justice, head- 

less. 

2. Athor (eit-llor)f Venus, another daughter of Ra. 

3. Xophr-Atmu, perhaps a variation of Atmu above. 

4. llor-l lat, a winged globe, as uyaBodat/juav. 
t). ITakte (llecate), a lion-headed goddess. 

6. Selk, a scorpion-headed goddess. 

7. Tore, a god connected with Ptah. 

8. Amunta, perhaps a female Araun. 

9. The, “ the heavens.” 

10. llapi, or the god of the Nile. 

11. Ranno, an asp-headed goddess, as uyaOodai/jitav. 

12. Hermes Trismegistns, a form of Tlioth. 

13. Asclepius, Moth, or Imoph, “son of Ptah.” 

14. Soph, the goddess of Speech. 

Together with about 50 more, some of thorn local divini- 
ties, and personifications of cities, besides deified ani- 
mals, etc, 

Xum, Xu, or Kneph , was one of the most important 
of the gods, corresponding to the “soul” of the uni- 
verse, to whom was ascribed the creation of gods, men, 
and the natural world. He is represented as a mail 
with the head of a ram and curved horns. The chief 
god of Thebes was Amen , or Amen-Ra, or Amen-Ra 
Khem , also worshipped in the great oasis, and. some- 
times portrayed under the form of Kneph. He was 
the Jupiter Ammon of the classics. The goddess Mut, 
or “the mother,” is the companion of Amen, and is 


represented as a female wearing the crowns of Upper 
and Lower Egypt, and the vulture head-dress of a 
queen. Khem was the god by whom the productive- 
ness of nature was symbolized. 11 is name reminds 
us of the patriarch Ham. The Greeks identified him 
with Pan, and called Chemmis, a city in the Thebais, 
where he was worshipped, Panopolis. lie is accom- 
panied by a tree or a flower on the sculptures, which 
may have been, as supposed by Mr. Poole, the asherah 
or sacred grove spoken of in the Bible. Ptah was the 
god of Memphis, and worshipped there under the form 
of a pigmy or child ; but, as his temples have been de- 
stroyed, little is known of his worship. The goddess 
Xeii or Xeith is often associated with Ptah. She was 
the patron deity of Sais, in the Delta ; and the Greeks 
say that Cecrops, leading a colony from thence to Ath- 
ens, introduced her worship into Greece, where she 
was called Athene. This name may be derived from 
the Egyptian, if wc suppose the latter to have been 
sometimes called Thenei, with the article prefixed like 
the name of Thebes. She is represented as a female 
with the crown of Lower Egypt on her head. Ra, or 
the sun, was worshipped at Heliopolis. His common 
figure is that of a man with a hawk’s head, on which 
is placed the solar disk and the royal asp. Thoth was 
the god of science and letters, and was worshipped at 
Hermopolis Magna. His usual form is that of a man 
with the head of an ibis surmounted by a crescent. 
Bast was called Bubastis by the Greeks, who identified 
her with Artemis. She is represented as a lion or cat- 
headed female, with the globe of the sun on her head. 
There is a similar goddess called Pasht. Athor was 
the daughter ofRa, and corresponded to the Aphrodite 
of the Greeks; the town of Tentyra or Denderah was 
under her protection. Shu represented solar or phys- 
ical light, and Ma-t or Thma (Themis) moral light, 
truth, or justice. Sehak was a son of Ra. He has a 
crocodile’s head. Osiris is the most remarkable per- 
sonage in the Egyptian Pantheon. His form is that 
of a mummied figure holding the crook and flail, and 
wearing the crown of Upper Egypt, generally with an 
ostrich feather on each side, lie was regarded as the 
personification of moral good. lie is related to have 
been on earth instructing mankind in useful arts ; to 
have been slain by his adversary Typhon (Set or 
Seth), by whom he was cut in pieces ; to have been 
bewailed by his wife and sister Isis ; to have been em- 
balmed ; to have risen again, and to have become the 
judge of the dead, among whom the righteous were 
called by bis name, and received his form — a wonder- 
ful fore-feeling of the Gospel narrative, and most like- 
ly symbolizing the strife between good and evil. Isis 
was the sister and spouse of Osiris, worshipped at Abv- 
dns and the island of Pliila?. Ilorus was their son. 
Apep, Apophis of the Greeks, an enormous serpent, 
was the only representative of moral evil. The wor- 
ship of animals is said to have been introduced by the 
second king of the second dynasty, when the bull Apis, 
at Memphis, and Mnevis, at Heliopolis, and the Men- 
desian goat, were called gods. The cat was sacred to 
Pasht, the ibis to Thoth, the crocodile to Sebak, the 
scarabieus to Ptah and a solar god Atum. In their 
worship of the gods, sacrifices of animals, fruit, and 
vegetables were used, as well as libations of wine and 
incense. No decided instance of a human sacrifice 
lias been found. After death a man was brought be- 
fore Osiris : his heart weighed against the feather of 
truth. lie was questioned by forty -two assessors as to 
whether he had committed forty-two sins about which 
they inquired. If guiltless, he took the form of Osiris, 
apparently after long series of transformations and 
many ordeals, and entered into bliss, dwelling among 
the gods in perpetual day on the banks of the celestial 
Nile. If guilty he was often changed into the form 
of some base animal, and consigned to a fiery place of 
punishment and perpetual night. From this abstract 
it may be seen that the Egyptian religion is to be re- 


EGYPT 


85 


EGYPT 


ferrert to various sources. There is a trace of some 
primeval revelation in it ; also a strong Sabaean ele- 
ment. (See a full discussion of the subject, with fig- 
ures of the leading deities, in Kitto’s Pictorial Bible , 
note on Deut. iv, 16). A more favorable view of the 
ancient Egyptian theology is taken b} 7 Wilkinson in 
his Ancient Egyptians (see his summary in the abridged 
ed. ii, 327 sq.) ; and it is probably true, as was the 
case with the polytheism of the Greeks and Romans 
likewise, that the more learned and philosophical class- 
es were able to spiritualize to some extent a religion 
which* could have been to the populace nothing but a 
gross idolatry. 

The Israelites in Egypt appear, during the oppres- 
sion, to have adopted to some extent the Egyptian idol- 
atry (Josh, xxiv, 14 ; Ezek. xx, 7, 8). The golden 
calf, or rather steer, fear, was probably taken from 
the bull Apis, certainly from one of the sacred bulls. 
Remphan and Chiun were foreign divinities adopted 
into the Egyptian Pantheon, and called in the hiero- 
glyphics RENPU (probably pronounced Remphu ) and 
KEN. It can hardly be doubted that they were wor- 
shipped by the shepherds ; but there is no satisfactory 
evidence that there was any separate foreign system 
of idolatry. See Remphan. Ashtoreth was wor- 
shipped at Memphis, as is shown by a tablet of Ame- 
noph II, B.C. cir. 1415, at the quarries of Tura, oppo- 
site that city (Vvse’s Pyramids , iii, “Tourah tablet 
2*’), in which she is represented as an Egyptian god- 
dess. The temple of “the Foreign Venus,” in “the 
Tyrian camp” in Memphis (Herod, ii, 112), must have 
been sacred to her. Doubtless this worship was in- 
troduced by the Phoenician shepherds. 

As there are prominent traces of primeval revela- 
tion in the ancient Egyptian religion, we cannot be 
surprised at finding certain resemblances to the Mo- 
saic law, apart from the probability that whatever 
was unobjectionable in common belief and usages 
would be retained. The points in which the Egyp- 
tian religion shows strong traces of truth are, how- 
ever, doctrines of the very kind that the Law does not 
expressly teach. The Egyptian religion, in. its refer- 
ence to man, was a system of responsibility mainly 
depending on future rewards and punishments. The 
Law, in its reference to man, was a system of respon- 
sibility mainly depending on temporal rewards and 
punishments. All we learn, but this is of the utmost 
importance, is that every Israelite who came out of 
Egypt must have been fully acquainted with the uni- 
versally recognised doctrines of the immortality of the 
soul, man's responsibility, and future rewards and 
punishments, truths which the law does not, and of 
course could not, contradict. The idea that the Mosaic 
law was an Egyptian invention is one of the worst ex- 
amples of modern reckless criticism. 

XIII. Laws. — -AYe have no complete account of the 
laws of the ancient Egyptians either in their own rec- 
ords or in works of ancient writers. The passages in 
the Bible which throw light upon the laws in force 
during the sojourn of the Israelites m Egypt most 
probably do not relate to purely native law, nor to law 
administered to natives, for during that whole period 
they may perhaps have been under shepherd rulers, 
and in any case it cannot be doubted that they would 
not be subject to absolutely the same system as the 
Egyptians. The paintings and sculptures of the mon- 
uments indicate a very high degree of personal safety, 
showing us that the people of all ranks commonly 
went unarmed, and without military protection. We 
must therefore infer that the laws relating to the 
maintenance of order were sufficient and strictly en- 
forced. The punishments seem to have been lighter 
than those of the Mosaic law, and very different in 
their relation to crime and in their nature. Capital 
punishment appears to have been almost restricted, in 
practice, to murder. Crimes of violence were more 


severely treated than offences against religion and 
morals. Popular feeling seems to have taken the du- 
ties of the judge upon itself in the case of impiety 
alone. That in early times the Egyptian populace 
acted with reference to any offence against its religion 
as it did under the Greeks and Romans, is evident 
from the answer of Moses when Pharaoh proposed that 
the Hebrews should sacrifice in the land. “ It is not 
meet so to do ; for we shall sacrifice the abomination 
of the Egyptians to the Lord our God : lo, shall we 
sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their 
eyes, and will they not stone us?” (Exod. viii, 26.) 

XIV. Government. — The rule was monarchical, but 
not of an absolute character. The sovereign was not 
superior to the laws, and the priests had the power to 
check the undue exercise of his authority. The kings 
under whom the Israelites lived seem to have been 
absolute, but even Joseph’s Pharaoh did not venture 
to touch the independence of the priests. Nomes and 
districts were governed by oflicers whom the Greeks 
called nomarchs and toparchs. There seems to have 
been no hereditary aristocracy, except perhaps at the 
earliest period, for indications of something of the kind 
occur in the inscriptions of the 4th and 12th dynasties. 

XV. Foreign Policy. — This must be regarded in its 
relation to the admission of foreigners into Egypt and 
to the treatment of tributary and allied nations. In 
the former aspect it was characterized by an exclu- 
siveness which sprang from a national hatred of the 
yellow and white races, and was maintained by the 
wisdom of preserving the institutions of the country 
from the infiuenee of the pirates of the Mediterranean 
and the Indian Ocean, and the robbers of the deserts. 
Hence the jealous exclusion of the Greeks from the 
northern ports until Naueratis was opened to them, 
and hence, too, the restriction of Shemitic settlers in 
earlier times to the land of Goshen, scarcely regarded 
as part of Egypt. It may be remarked as a proof of the 
strictness of this policy that during the whole of the 
sojourn of the Israelites the} 7 appear to have been kept 
in Goshen. The key to the policy towards foreign 
nations, after making allowance for the hatred of the 
yellow and white races balanced by the regard for the 
red and black, is found in the position of the great 
Oriental rivals of Egypt. The supremacy or influ- 
ence of the Pharaohs over the nations lying between 
the Nile and the Euphrates depended as much on wis- 
dom in policy as prowess in arms. The kings of the 
4th, 6th, anil 15th dynasties appear to have uninter- 
ruptedly held the peninsula of Sinai, where tablets 
record their conquest of Asiatic nomads. Rut with 
the 18th dynasty commences the period of Egyptian 
supremacy. Ver} 7 soon after the accession of this pow- 
erful line most of the countries between the Egyptian 
border and the Tigris were reduced to the condition 
of tributaries. The empire seems to have lasted for 
nearly three centuries, from about B.C. 1500 to about 
1200. The chief opponents of the Egyptians were the 
Hittites of the valley of the Orontes, with whom the 
Pharaohs waged long and fierce wars. After this 
time the influence of Egypt declined ; and until the 
reign of Shishak (B.C. cir. 990-967), it appears to 
have been confined to the western borders of Pales- 
tine. No doubt the rising greatness of Assyria caused 
the decline. Thenceforward to the days of Pharaoh 
Necho there was a constant struggle for the tracts ly- 
ing between Egypt, and Assyria, and Babylonia, until 
the disastrous battle at Carchemish finally destroyed 
the supremacy of the Pharaohs. It is probable that 
during the period of the empire an Assyrian or Bab} r - 
lonian king generally supported the opponents of the 
rulers of Egypt. Great aid from a powerful ally can. 
indeed alone explain the strong resistance offered by 
the Hittites. The general policy of the Egyptians to- 
wards their eastern tributaries seems to have been 
marked by great moderation. The Pharaohs inter- 
married with them, and neither forced upon them 


EGYPT 


SG 


EGYPT 


Egyptian garrisons, except in some important posi- 
tions, nor attempted those deportations that are so 
marked a feature of Asiatic policy. In the ease of 
those nations which never attacked them they do not 
appear to have even exacted tribute. {So long as their 
general supremacy was uncontested they would not 
l>e unwise enough to make favorable or neutral pow- 
ers their enemies. Of their relation to the Israelites 
we have for the earlier part of this period no direct in- 
formation. The explicit account of the later part is 
fully consistent with what we have said of the general 
policy of the Pharaohs. Shishak and Zerah, if the 
latter were, as we believe, a king of Egypt or a. com- 
mander of Egyptian forces, are the only exceptions in 
a series of friendly kings, and they were almost cer- 
tainly of Assyrian or Babylonian extraction. One 
Pharaoh gave his daughter in marriage to Solomon, 
another appears to have been the ally of Jehoram, king 
of Israel (2 Kings vii, G), So made -a treaty with Ho- 
shea, Tirhakah aided Hezekiah, Pharaoh Necho fought 
Josiah against his will, and did not treat Judah with 
the severity of the Oriental kings, and his second suc- 
cessor, Pharaoh liophra, maintained the alliance, not- 
withstanding this break, as firmly as before, and, al- 
though foiled in his endeavor to save Jerusalem from 
the Chaldeans, received the fugitives of Judah, who, 
like the fugitives of Israel at the capture of Samaria, 
took refuge in Egypt. It is probable that during the 
earlier period the same friendly relations existed. The 
Hebrew records of that time afford no distinct indica- 
tion of hostility with Egypt, nor have the Egyptian 
lists of conquered regions and towns of the same age 
been found to contain any Israelitish name, whereas in 
Shishak’s list the kingdom of Judah and some of its 
towns occur. The route of the earlier Pharaohs to 
the east seems always to have been along the Pales- 
tinian coast, then mainly held by the Philistines and 
Phoenicians, both of whom they subdued, and across 
Syria northward of the territories occupied by the He- 
brews. With respect to the African nations a differ- 
ent policy appears to have been pursued. The Rebu 
(Lebu) or Lubim, to the west of Egypt, on the north 
coast, were reduced to subjection, and probably em- 
ployed, like the Shayretana or Cherethim, as merce- 
naries. Ethiopia was made a purely Egyptian prov- 
ince, ruled by a viceroy, “the prince of Kesh (Cush),” 
and the assimilation was so complete that Ethiopian 
sovereigns seem to have been received by the Egyp- 
tians as native rulers. Further south the negroes 
were subject to predatory attacks like the slave-hunts 
of modem times, conducted not so much from motives 
of hostility as to obtain a supply of slaves. In the 
Bible we find African peoples, Lubim, Phut, Snkkiim, 
Cush, as mercenaries or supporters of Egypt, but not 
a single name that can be positively placed to the east- 
ward of that country. 

XVI. Army . — There are some notices of the Egyp- 
tian army in the O. T. Th'ey show, like the monu- 
ments, that its most important branch was the chariot- 
force. The Pharaoh of the Exodus led GOO chosen 
chariots, besides his whole chariot-force, in pursuit of 
the Israelites. The warriors lighting in chariots are 
probably the “horsemen” mentioned in the relation 
of this event and elsewhere, for in Egyptian they are 
called the “horse” or “cavalry.” We have no sub- 
sequent indication in the Bible of the constitution of 
an Egyptian army until the time of the 22d dynasty, 
when we find that Shishak’s invading force was partly 
composed of foreigners ; whether mercenaries or allies 
cannot as yet he positively determined, although the 
monuments make it most probable that they were of 
the former character. The army of Necho, defeated 
at Carehemish, seems to have been similarly composed, > 
although it probably contained Greek mercenaries, 
who soon afterwards became, t lie most important for- 
eign element in the Egyptian forces. 

XVII. Customs , Science , and Art . — The sculptures ! 


and paintings of the tombs give us a very full insight 
into the domestic life of the ancient Egyptians, as 
may be seen in Sir G. Wilkinson’s work. What most 
strikes us in their manners is the high position occu- 
pied by women, and the entire absence of the harem 
i system of seclusion. The wife is called “the lady of 
the house.” Marriage appears to have been univer- 
sal, at least with the richer class; and if polygamy 
were tolerated it was rarely practised. Of marriage 
ceremonies no distinct account has been discovered, 
but there is evidence that something of the kind was 
usual in, the ease of a queen (De Rouge, JSssai sur une 
Stele Egyptlenne , p. 53, 54). Concubinage was ah 
lowed, the concubines taking the place of inferior 
wives. There were no castes, although great classes 
were very distinct, especially the priests, soldiers, ar- 
tisans, and herdsmen, with laborers. A man of the 
upper classes might, however, both hold a command 
in the army and be a priest ; and therefore the caste- 
system cannot have strictly applied in the ease of the 
subordinates. The general manner of life does not 
much illustrate that of the Israelites from its great es- 
sential difference. The Egyptians from the days of 
Abraham were a settled people, occupying a land 
which they had held for centuries without question, 
except through the aggression of foreign invaders. 
The occupations of the higher class were the superin- 
tendence of their fields and gardens, their diversions, 
the pursuit of game in the deserts or on the river, and 
fishing. The tending of cattle was left to the most 
despised of the lower class. The Israelites, on the 
contrary, were from the very first a pastoral people : 
in time of war they lived within walls ; when there 
was peace they “dwelt in their tents” (2 Kings xiii, 5). 

The Egyptian feasts, and the dances, music, and 
feats which accompanied them for the diversion of the 
guests, as well as the common games, were probably 
introduced among the Hebrews in the most luxurious 
days of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah. The ac- 
count of the noontide dinner of Joseph (Gen. xliii. 1G, 
31-34) agrees with the representations of the monu- 
ments, although it evidently describes a far simpler 
repast than would be usual with an Egyptian minister. 
The attention to precedence, which seems to have sur- 
prised Joseph's brethren (ver. 33), is perfectly charac- 
teristic of Egyptian customs. 

The Egyptians were in the habit of eating much 
bread at table, and fancy rolls or seed-cakes were in 
abundance at every feast. Those who could afford it 
ate wheaten bread, the poor alone being content with 
a coarser kind, made of dura flour or millet. They 
ate with their fingers, though they occasionally used 
spoons. The table was sometimes covered with a 
cloth ; and in great entertainments among the rich, 
each guest was furnished with a napkin. They sat 
on a carpet or mat upon the ground, or else on stools 
or chairs round the table, and did not recline at meat 
like the Greeks and Romans. They were particularly 
fond of music and dancing. The most austere aud 
scrupulous priest could not give a feast without a good 
band of musicians and dancers, as well as plenty of 
wine, costly perfumes and ointments, and a profusion 
of lotus and other flowers. Tumblers, jugglers, and 
various persons skilled in feats of agility, were hired 
for the occasion, and the guests played at games of 
chance, at mora, and the game of latruneuli, resem- 
bling draughts. The latter was the favorite game of 
all ranks, and Rameses 111 is more than once repre- 
sented playing it in the palace at Thebes. The num- 
ber of pieces for playing the game is not exactly known. 
They were of different colors on the opposite sides of 
the board, and were not flat as with us, but about an 
inch and a half or two inches high, and were moved 
like chessmen, with the thumb and finger. 

The religious festivals were numerous, and some of 
them were, in the days of Herodotus, kept with great 
merry-making and license. Ilis description of that 


EGYPT 


87 


EGYPT 


«f the goddess Bubastis, kept at the city of Bubastis, ' 
in the eastern part of the Delta, would well apply to 
some of the great Mohammedan festivals now held in 
the country (ii, 59, GO). The feast which the Israel- 
ites celebrated when Aaron had made the golden calf 
seems to have been very much of the same character : j 
first offerings -were presented, and then the people ate, | 
and danced, and sang (Exod. xxxii, 5, 6, 17, 18, 19), ! 
and even, it seems, stripped themselves (ver. 25), as 
appears to have been not unusual at the popular an- 
cient Egyptian festivals. 

The funeral ceremonies were far more important 
than any events of the Egyptian life, as the tomb was 
regarded as the only true home. The bod} 7 of the de- 
ceased was embalmed in the form of Osiris, the judge 
of the dead, and conducted to the burial-place with 
great pomp and much display of lamentation. The 
mourning lasted seventy-two days or less. Both Ja- 
cob and Joseph were embalmed, and the mourning for 
the former lasted seventy days. 

The Egyptians, for the most part, were accustomed 
to shave their heads; indeed, except among the sol- 
diers, the practice was probably almost universal. 
They generally wore skull-caps. Otherwise they wore 
their own hair, or wigs falling to the shoulders in nu- 
merous curls, or done up in the form of a bag. They 
also shaved their faces ; kings, however, and other 
great personages had beards about three inches long 
and one inch broad, which were plaited. The crown 
of Upper Egypt was a short cap, with a tall point be- 
hind, which was worn over the other. The king often 
had the figure of an asp, the emblem of royalty, tied 
just above his forehead. The common royal dress 
was a kilt which reached to the ankles ; over it was 
worn a shirt, coming down to the knees, with wide 
sleeves as far as the elbows: both these -were gener- 
ally of fine white linen. Sandals were worn on the 
feet, and on the person, armlets, bracelets, and neck- 
laces. The upper and middle classes usually went 
barefoot ; in other respects their dress w T as much the 
same as that of the king’s, but of course inferior in 
costliness. The priests sometimes wore a leopard’s 
skin tied over the shoulders, or like a shirt, with the 
fore legs for the sleeves. The queen had a particular 
head-dress, which was in the form of a vulture with 
expanded wings. The beak projected over the fore- 
head, the wings fell on either side, and the tail hung 
down behind. She sometimes wore the urreus or asp. 
The royal princes were distinguished by a side-lock 
of hair elaborately plaited. The women wore their 
hair curled or plaited, reaching abont half way from 
the shoulders to the waist. 

The Egyptians were a very literary people, and 
time has preserved to us, besides the inscriptions on 
their tombs and temples, man} 7 papyri of a religious 
or historical character, and one tale. They bear no 
resemblance to the hooks of the O. T., except such as 
arises from their sometimes enforcing moral truths in 
a manner not wholly different from that of the hook 
of Proverbs. The moral and religious system is, how- 
ever, essentially different in its principles and their 
application. Some have imagined a great similarity 
between the O. T. and Egyptian literature, and have 
given a show of reason to their idea by dressing up 
Egyptian documents in a garb of Hebrew phraseology, 
in which, however, they have gone so awkwardly that 
no one who had not prejudged the question could for a 
moment be deceived. We find frequent reference in 
the Bible to the magicians of Egypt. The Pharaoh 
of Joseph laid his dream before the magicians, who 
could not interpret it (Gen. xli. 8); the Pharaoh of the 
Exodus used them as opponents of Moses and Aaron, 
when, after what appears to have been a seeming suc- 
cess, they failed as before (Exod. vii, 11, 12, 22; viii, 
18, 19; ix, 11 ; 2 Tim. iii, 8, 9). The monuments do 
not recognise any such art, and w r e must conclude 
that magic was secretly practised, not because it was 


thought to be unlawful, but in order to give it impor- 
tance. See Magic ; Jambres ; Jannes. 

In science, Egyptian influence may be distinctly 
traced in the Pentatench. Moses was “ learned in all 
the wisdom of the Egyptians” (Acts vii, 22), and prob- 
ably derived from them the astronomical knowledge 
which was necessary for the calendar. His acquaint- 
ance with chemistry is shown in the manner of the 
destruction of the golden calf. The Egyptians ex- 
celled in geometry and mechanics : the earlier books 
of the Bible, however, throw no light upon the degree 
in which Moses may have made use of this part of his 
knowledge. In medicine and surgery, the high profi- 
ciency of the Egyptians was probably of but little use 
to the Hebrews after the Exodus: anatomy, practised 
by the former from the earliest ages, was repugnant 
to the feelings of Shemitcs, and the simples of Egypt 
and of Palestine would be as different as the ordinary 
diseases of the country. In the arts of architecture, 

| sculpture, and painting, the former of which was the 
I chief, there seems to have been but a very slight and 
material influence. This was natural, for with the 
Egyptians architecture was a religious art, embodying 
in its principles their highest religious convictions, 

| and mainly devoted to the service of religion. Dura- 
ble construction, massive and grand form, and rich, 
though sober color, characterize their temples and 
i tombs, the abodes of gods, and “homes” of men. To 
adopt such an architecture would have been to adopt 
the religion of Egypt, and the pastoral Israelites had 
no need of buildings. When they came into the Prom- 
ised Land they found cities ready for their occupation, 
and it was not until the days of Solomon that a tem- 
ple took the place of the tent, which was the sanctuary 
of the pastoral people. Details of ornament were of 
course borrowed from Egypt ; but, separated from the 
vast system in which they were found, they lost their 
significance, and became harmless until modern scio- 
lists made them prominent in support of a theory 
which no mind capable of broad views can for a mo- 
ment tolerate. 

It is hardly needful to observe that the ancient 
Egyptians had attained to high degrees of civilization 
and mental culture. This is evidenced by many facts. 
For instance, the variation of the compass may even 
now he ascertained by observing the lateral direction 
of the pyramids, on account of their being placed so 
; accurately north and south. This argues considerable 
acquaintance with astronomy. Again, we know that 
they were familiar with the duodecimal as well as the 
l decimal scale of. notation, and must therefore have 
made some progress in the study of mathematics. 
There is proof that the art of painting upon plaster and 
panel was practised by them more than 2000 years be- 
fore Christ; and the sculptures furnish representations 
of inkstands that contained two colors, black and red; 
the latter being introduced at the beginning of a sub- 
ject, and for the division of certain sentences, showing 
this custom to be as old as that of holding the pen be- 
hind the ear, which is often portrayed in the paintings 
of the tombs. Alabaster was a material much used 
for vases, and as ointment was generally kept in an 
alabaster box, the Greeks and Bom an s applied the 
name cilahastron to all vases made for that purpose ; 
and one of them found at Thebes, and now in the mu- 
seum at Alnwick Castle, contains some ointment per- 
fectly preserved, though from the queen’s name in the 
hieroglyphics it must be more than 8000 years old. In 
architecture they were very successful, as the mag- 
nificent temples yet remaining bear evident witness, 
though in ruins. The Doric order is supposed to have 
been derived from columns found at Beni-IIassan, and 
the arch is at least as old as the 16th century B.C. In 
medical science, we know from the evidence furnished 
bv mummies found at Thebes that the art of stopping 
teeth with gold, and probably cement, was known to 
the ancient Egyptians, and Cuvier found ineontestible 


EGYPT 


88 


EGYPT 


proof that the fractured bone of an ibis had been set 
by them while the bird was alive. 

Sacred music was much used in Egypt, and the 
harp, lyre, Hute, tambourine, cymbals, etc., were ad- 
mitted in divers religious services, of which music con- 
stituted an important element. Sacred dancing was 
also common in religious ceremonies, as it seems to 
have been among the Jews (Psa. exlix, 3). Moses 
found the children of Israel dancing before the golden 
calf (Exod. xxxii, 19), in imitation probably of rites 
they had often witnessed in Egypt. 

The industrial arts held an important place in the 
occupations of the Egyptians. The workers in fine 
flax and the weavers of white linen are mentioned in 
a manner that shows they were among the chief con- 
tributors to the riches of the country (Isa. xix, 9). 
The fine linen of Egypt found its way to Palestine 
(Prov. vii, 1C). That its celebrity was not without 
cause is proved bv a piece found near Memphis, and 
by the paintings (comp. Gen. xli, 42 ; 2 Chron. i, 16, 
ete.). The looms of Egypt were also famed for their 
fine cotton and woollen fabrics, and many of these 
were worked with patterns in brilliant colors, some- 
times being wrought with the needle, sometimes woven 
in the piece. Some of the stripes w’ere of gold thread, 
alternating with red ones as a border. Specimens of 
their embroidery are to be seen in the Louvre, and the 
many dresses painted on the monuments of the 18th 
dynasty show that the most varied patterns were used 
by the Egyptians more than 3000 years ago, as they 
were subsequently by the Babylonians, who became 
noted for their needle-work. Sir G. Wilkinson states 
that the secret of dyeing cloths of various colors by 
means of mordants was known to the Egyptians, as 
proved by the manner in which Plinv has described 
the process, though he does not seem to have under- 
stood it. They were equally fond of variet)' of pat- 
terns on the walls and ceilings of their houses and 
tombs, and some of the oldest ceilings show that the 
chevron, the checker, the scroll, and the guilloche, 
though ascribed to the Greeks, were adopted in Eg} r pt 
more than 2000 years before our asra. 

A gradual progress may be observed in their choice 
of fancy ornament. Beginning with simple imitations 
of real objects, as the lotus and other flowers, they 
adopted, by degrees, conventional representations of 
them, or purely imaginary devices; and it is remark- 
able that the oldest Greek and Etruscan vases have a 
similarly close imitation of the lotus and other real ob- 
jects. The same patterns common on Greek vases 
had long before been introduced on those in Egypt ; 
whole ceilings are covered with them; and the vases 
themselves had often the same elegant forms we ad- 
mire in the eilix and others afterwards made in Greece. 
They were of gold and silver, engraved and embossed ; 
those made of porcelain were rich in color, and some 
of the former were inlaid or studded with precious 
stones, or enamelled in brilliant colors. Their knowl- 
edge of glass-blowing is shown by a glass bead in- 
scribed with the name of a queen of the 18th dynas- 
ty, which proves it to be as old as 3200 years ago. 
Among their most beautiful achievements in this art 
were their riehly-colored bottles with waving lines 
and their small inlaid mosaics. In these last, the 
fineness of the work is so great that it must have re- 
quired a strong magnifying power to put the parts to- 
gether, especially the more minute details, sneh as 
feathers, the hair, ete. “They were composed,” says 
Sir G. Wilkinson, “of the finest threads or rods of 
glass (attenuated by drawing them when heated to a 
great length), which, having been selected according 
to their color, were placed upright side by side, as in 
an ordinary mosaic, in sufficient number to form a 
portion of the intended picture. Others were. then 
added until the whole had been composed; and when 
they had all been cemented together by a pro'per heat, 
the work was completed. Slices were then sawn off 


transversely, as in our Tunbridge ware, and each sec- 
tion presented the same picture on its upper and un- 
der side.” 

The more wealthy Egyptians had their large town- 
houses and spacious villas, in which the flower-garden 
and pleasure-grounds were not the least prominent 
features. Avenues of trees shaded the walks, and a 
great abundance of violets, roses, and other flowers 
was always to be bad, even in winter, owing to the 
nature of their climate and the skill of their gardeners. 
A part also was assigned to vines and fruit-trees ; the 
former were trained on trellis-w r ork, the latter were 
standards. It is a curious fact that they w r ere in the 
habit of employing monkeys, trained for the purpose, 
to climb the upper branches of the sycamore-trees, and 
to gather the tigs from them. The houses generally 
consisted of a ground floor and one upper story ; few 
were higher. They were often placed round an open 
court, in the centre of which was a fountain or small 
garden. Large houses had sometimes a porch with a 
flight of steps before the street door, over which latter 
was painted the name of the owner. The wealthy 
landed proprietors were grandees of the priestly and 
military classes (Air. Bireh and M. Ampere may be 
said to have proved the non-existence of castes, in the 
Indian sense , in Egypt) ; but those who tended cat- 
tle were looked down upon by the rest of the com- 
munity. This contempt is often shown in the paint- 
ings, by their being drawn unshaven, and squalid, and 
dressed in the same covering of mats that were thrown 
over the beasts they tended. None would intermarry 
with swineherds. It was the custom for the men to 
milk, as it is still among some Arab tribes, who think 
it disgraceful for a woman to milk any animal. 

Potters were very numerous, and the wheel, the 
baking of cups, and the other processes of their art 
w r ere prominent on the monuments. It is singular, as 
affording illustration of Scripture language, that the 
same idea of fashioning the clay was also applied to 
man’s formation ; and the gods Ptah and Xnin, the 
creative agencies, are represented sitting at the pot- 
ter’s wheel turning the clay for the human creation. 
Pottery appears to have furnished employment to the 
Hebrews during the bondage (Psa. lxxxi, G; lxviii, 
13 ; eonip. Exod. i, 14). 

The Egyptians -were familiar with the use of iron 
from a very remote period, and their skill in the man- 
ufacture of bronze w r as celebrated. They w'ere ac- 
quainted also with the use of the forceps, the blow- 
pipe, the bellows, the syringe, and the siphon. Gold 
mines were wrought in Upper Egypt (Diod. Sic. iii, 
12 ). 

Leather was sometimes used for writing purposes, 
but more frequently paper yiade from the papyrus, 
which grew in the marsh-lands of the Delta. The 
mode of making it w T as by cutting the pith into thin 
slices lengthwise, which being laid on a table w r ere 
covered with similar layers at right angles, and the 
tw'o sets, being glued together and kept under pressure 
a proper time, formed a sheet. The dried flower-heads 
of the papyrus have been found in the tombs. 

As illustrating Scripture, it may be mentioned that 
the gods are sometimes represented in the tombs hold- 
ing the Tau or sign of life m , which w'as adopt- 
ed by some of the early Christians in lieu of the cross, 
and is mentioned by Ezek. ix, 4, 6, as the “ mark (Tau) 
set upon the foreheads of the men” who w'ere to be 
preserved alive. Christian inscriptions at the great 
oasis are headed by this symbol ; it has been found on 
Christian monuments at Kome. 

Egyptian edicts seem to have been issued in the 
form of a firman or written order; and from the word 
used by Pharaoh in granting power to Joseph (“Ac- 
cording to thy word shall all my people be ruled;” 
Hebrew kiss, Gen- xli, 40, alluding evidently to the 


EGYPT 


89 


EGYPT 


custom of kissing a firman), we may infer that the peo- 
ple who received that order adopted the usual Eastern 
mode of acknowledging their obedience to the sover- 
eign. Besides the custom of kissing the signature at- 
tached to these documents, the people were doubtless 
expected to “ bow the knee” (Gen. xli, 43) in the pres- 
ence of the monarch and chiefs of the nation, or even 
to prostrate themselves before them. The sculptures 
represent them thus bow ing w ith the hand stretched 
out towards the knee. 

The account of brick-making in Exod. v, 7-19 is 
illustrated in a remarkable degree by a painting in a 
tomb at Thebes, in which the hardness of the work, 
the tale of bricks, the straw', and the native taskmas- 
ters set over foreign workmen, are vividly portrayed. 
The making of bricks was a monopoly of the crown, 
which accounts for the Jew's and other captives being 
employed in such numbers to make bricks for the Pha- 
raohs. See Brick. 

Certain injunctions of the Mosaic law appear to be 
framed with particular reference to Egyptian prac- 
tices, e. g. the fact of false witness being forbidden by 
a distinct and separate commandment, becomes the 
more significant when we bear in mind the number of 
witnesses required by the Egyptian law for the execu- 
tion of the most trifling contract. As many as six- 
teen names are appended to one for the sale of a part 
of certain properties, amounting only to 400 pieces of 
brass. It appears that bulls only, and not heifers, 
were killed by the Egyptians in sacrifice. Compare 
w r ith this the law of the Israelites (Num. xix, 2), com- 
manding them to “bring a red heifer, without spot, 
wherein was no blemish.” It w'as on this account 
that Moses proposed to go “three days’ journey into 
the desert,” lest the Egyptians should be enraged at 
seeing the Israelites sacrifice a heifer (Exod. viii, 2G) ; 
and by this very opposite choice of a victim they were 
made unequivocally to denounce and separate them- 
selves from the rites of Egypt. The Egyptian com- 
mon name for Heliopolis was AN, from which was de- 
rived the Hebrew On or Aon, pointed in Ezek. xxx, 
17, Aven, and translated by Bethshemesh (Jer. xliii, 
13). So also the Pi-beseth of the same place in Eze- 
kiel is from the Egyptian article Pi, prefixed to Bast , 
the name of the goddess there worshipped, and is equiv- 
alent to Bubastis, a city named after her, supposed to 
correspond to the Grecian Artemis. The Tahpanhes 
of Scripture (Jer. xliii, 8; Ezek. xxx, 18) w r as per- 
haps a place called Daphnas, sixteen miles from Pelu- 
sium. 

XVI II. Comparison with tke Manners of the modern 
Inhabitants. — The mode of life of the Egyptians has in 
all ages necessarily been more or less influenced by 
their locality : those w ho dwelt on high lands on the 
east, as well as those w'ho dw'elt on the marshy flat 
country in the Delta, have become shepherds, as their 
land docs not admit of cultivation. The people who 
live along the Nile become fishermen and sailors. The 
cultivated part of the natives who live on the plains 
and over the surface of the country diligently and 
most successfully practise all the arts of life, and in 
former ages have left ever-during memorials of their 
proficiency and skill. 

On this natural diversity of pursuits, as w'ell as on 
a diversity of blood — for besides the master and rul- 
ing race of Ethiopians there w'ere anciently others w'ho 
were of nomadc origin — was early founded the institu- 
tion of so-called castes, which Egj'pt had, although 
less marked than India, and w r hich pervaded the en- 
tire life of the nation. These, according to Herodotus 
(xi, 164), were seven in number (comp. Diod. Sic. i, 
73). The priestly caste was the most honored and in- 
fluential. It had in every large city a temple dedica- 
ted to the deity of the place, together with a high- 
priest, who stood next to the king and restricted his 
power. The priesthood possessed the finest portions 
of the country. They were the judges, physicians, 


astrologers, architects — in a word, they united in them« 
selves all the highest culture and most distinguished 
offices of the land, while with them alone lay tradi- 
tion, literature, and the sacred -writings. This class 
exerted the most decided and extensive influence on 
the culture not only of their own country, but of the 
world ; for during the brightest periods of Grecian his- 
tory the love of knowledge carried into Egypt men 
who have done much to form the character of after 
ages, such as Solon, Pythagoras, Archytas, Thales, He- 
rodotus, Plato, and others (comp. Gen. xli, 8; Exod. 
vii, 11 ; viii, 11 ; xiii, 7 ; Josephus, Ant. ii, 9, 2). 

The peculiarities of the ancient Egyptians of the 
low'er castes seem to have survived best, and to be 
represented, at least in some particulars, by the Fel- 
lahs of the present day. These Fellahs discharge all 
the duties of tilling the country and gathering its rich 
abundance. They are a quiet, contented, and submis- 
sive race, always living, through an unjust govern- 
ment, on the edge of starvation, yet always happy, 
w'itli no thought for the morrow, no care for, no inter- 
est in, political changes. “ Of the Fellahs it may be 
said, as was said by Amrou of the ancient Egyptians, 
‘ they are bees always toiling, always toiling for oth- 
ers, not themselves.’ The love of the Fellah for his 
country and his Nile is an all-absorbing love, lie- 
move him, and he perishes. He cannot live a year 
away from his village ; his grave must be where his 
cradle w r as. But he is of all men most submissive : he 
will rather die than revolt; resignation is his primary 
virtue; impatience under any yoke is unknown to 
him ; his life, his faith, his law r is submission. ‘Al- 
lah Kerim!’ is his hourly consolation, his perpetual 
benediction. He was made for peace, not for war; 
and, though his patriotism is intense, there is no min- 
gling in it of the love of glory or the passion for con- 
quest. His nationality is in his local affections, and 
they are most intense. Upon this race, the race of 
bright e} r es and beautiful forms, it is impossible to 
look without deep interest : of all the gay, the gayest ; 
of all the beings made for happiness, the most excita- 
ble. If days of peace and prosperity could be theirs, 
what songs, what music, what joys!” (Bowring’s Re- 
port, p. 7). 

The ruling class consists of Arabs intermingled 
with Turks, who have been in succession the conquer- 
ors of the land, and may be regarded as representing 
the priestly and military castes. 

The only other tribe we have room to notice is that 
of the Copts, equally with the preceding indigenous. 
The}' are Christians by hereditary transmision, and 
have suffered centuries of cruel persecutions and hu- 
miliations, though now they seem to be rising in im- 
portance, and promise to fill an important page in the 
future history of Egypt. In character they are amia- 
ble, pacific, and intelligent, having, of course, the 
faults and vices of dissimulation, falsehood, and mean- 
ness, which slavery never fails to engender. In office 
they are the scribes, the arithmeticians, the measurers, 
the clerks — in a word, the learned men of the country. 
The language which they use in their religious servi- 
ces is the ancient Egyptian, or Coptic, which, how- 
ever, is translated into Arabic for the benefit of the 
laity (Bowring’s j?c/>or(). Sec below, Egypt, Chris- 
tian ; and Copts. 

XIX. Technical Chronology. — That the Egyptians 
used various periods of time, and made astronomical 
observations from a remote age, is equally attested by 
ancient writers and by their monuments. It is, how- 
ever, very difficult to connect periods mentioned by 
the former with the indications of the fame kind of- 
fered by the latter ; and what we may term the record- 
ed observations of the monuments cannot be used for 
the determination of chronology without a previous 
knowledge of Egyptian astronomy that we have not 
wholly attained. The testimony of ancient writers 
must, however, be carefully sifted, and we must not 


EGYPT 


90 


EGYPT 


take their statements as a positive basis without the 
strongest evidence of correctness. Without that tes- 
timony, however, we could not at present prosecute 
the inquiry. The Egyptians do not appear to have 
had any common fera. Every document that bears 
the date of a year gives the year of the reigning sover- 
eign, counted from thatcurrent year in which he came 
to the throne, which was called his first year. There 
is, therefore, no general means of testing deductions 
from the chronological indications of the monuments. 

There appear to have been at least three years in 
use with the Egyptians before the Roman domination, 
the Vague Year, the Tropical Year, and the Sothic 
Year; but it is not probable that more than two of 
these were employed at the same time. The Vague 
Year contained 365 da}’s without any additional frac- 
tion, and therefore passed through all the seasons in 
about 1500 years. It was used both for civil and for 
religions purposes. Probably the Israelites adopted 
this } r ear during the sojourn in Egypt, and that insti- 
tuted at the Exodus appears to have been the current 
Vague Year fixed by the adoption of a method of in- 
tercalation. See Year. The Vague Year was divi- 
ded into twelve months, each of thirty days, with five 
epagomence , or additional days, after the twelfth. The 
months were assigned to three seasons, each compris- 
ing four months, called respectively the 1st, 2d, 3d, 
and 4th of those seasons. The names by which the 
Egyptian months are commonly known, Thoth, Pao- 
phi, etc., are taken from the divinities to which the} r 
were sacred. The seasons are called, according to our , 
rendering, those of Vegetation, Manifestation, and the 1 
Waters, or the Inundation: the exact meaning of 
their names has, however, been much disputed. They 
evidently refer to the phenomena of a tropical year, I 
and swell a year we must therefore conclude the Egyp- 
tians had, at least in a remote period of their histo- 
ry- if, as we believe, the third season represents the 
period of the inundation, its beginning must be dated 
about one month before the autumnal equinox, which 
would place the beginning of the year at the winter 
solstice, an especially fit time in Egypt for the com- 
mencement of a tropical year. The Sothic Year was 
a supposed sidereal } r ear of 365^- days, commencing 
with the so-called heliacal rising of Sotliis. The Vague 
Year, having no intercalation, constantly retreated 
through the Sothic Year, until a period of 1461 years 
of the former kind, and 1460 of the latter had elapsed, 
from one coincidence of commencements to another. 

The Egyptians are known to have used two great 
cycles, the Sothic Cycle and the Tropical Cycle. The 
former was a cycle of the coincidence of the Sothic 
and Vague years, and therefore consisted of 1460 years 
of the former kind. This cycle is mentioned by an- 
cient writers, and two of its commencements recorded, 
the one, called the iEra of Menophres, July 20, B.C. 
1322, and the other on the same day, A.D. 139. Me- 
nophres is supposed to he the name of an Egyptian 
king, and this is most probable. The nearest name is 
Mern-ptah, or Menephthah, which is part of that of 
Sethi Menptah, a title that seems to have been in one 
form or another common to several of the first kings 
of the 19th dynasty. Chronological indications seem 
to 1)0 conclusive in favor of Sethos 1. The Tropi- 
cal Cycle was a cycle of the coincidence of the Tropi- 
cal and Vague years. We do not know the exact 
length of the former year with the Egyptians, nor, 
indeed, that it was used in the monumental age; but 
from the mention of a period of 500 } r ears, the third 
of the cycle, and the time during which the Vague 
Year would retrograde through one season, we cannot 
doubt that there was such a cycle, not to speak of its 
analogy with the Sothic Cycle. It has been supposed 
by M. Biot to have had a duration of 1505 years; but 
the length of 1500 Vague Years is preferable, since it 
contains a number of complete lunations, besides that 
the Egyptians could scarcely have been more exact, 


and that the period of 500 years is a subdivision of 
1500. Ancient writers do not fix any commencements 
of this cycle. If the characteristics of the Tropical 
Year are what we suppose, the cycle would have begun 
B.C. 2005 and 507 : two hieroglyphic inscriptions are 
thought to record the former of these epochs (Poole, 
Horn sEgyptiaccc, p. 12 sq., pi. i, Nos. 5, 6). The re- 
turn of the Phoenix has undoubtedly a chronological 
meaning. It has been supposed to refer to the period 
last mentioned, but Poole is of opinion that the Phoenix 
Cycle was of exactly the same character, and there- 
fore length, as the Sothic, its commencement being 
marked by the so-called heliacal rising of a star of the 
constellation BENNU HESAP, “the Phoenix of Osi- 
ris,’’ which is placed in the astronomical ceiling of the 
Rameseium of El-Kurneh six months distant from So- 
this. The monuments make mention of Panegyrical 
Months, which can only, it is supposed, he periods of 
thirty years each, and divisions of a year of the same 
kind. Poole has computed the following as dates of 
commencements of these PanegjTical Years, in accord- 
ance with which he has adjusted his chronology : 1st, 
B.C. 2717, 1st dynasty, tera of Menes (not on monu- 
ments); 2d, B.C. 2352, 4th dynasty, Suphis I and II ; 
Bd, B.C. 1986 (12th dynasty, Osirtasen III ? not on 
monuments) ; the last-mentioned date being also, ac- 
cording to him, the beginning of a Phoenix Cycle, 
which he thinks comprised four of these Panegyrical 
Years. The other important dates of the system of 
panegyrics which occur on the monuments are, in his 
scheme : B.C. 1442, 18th dynasty, queen Amen-nemt ; 
and B.C. 1412, 18th dynasty, Thothmes III. 

Certain phenomena recorded on the monuments 
have been calculated bj r M. Biot, who has obtained the 
following dates : Rising of Sotliis in reign of Tlioth- 
mes III, 18th dynasty, B.C. 1445; supposed vernal 
equinox, Thothmes III, B.C. cir. 1441; rising of So- 
this, Raineses 1 1, 19th dynasty, B.C. 1301 ; star-risings, 
Raineses VI and IX (? Meneptah I and II), 20th dy- 
nasty, B.C. cir. 1241. Some causes of uncertainty af- 
fect the exactness of these dates, and that of Rameses 
II is irreconcilable with the two of Thothmes III, un- 
less we hold the calendar in which the inscription sup- 
posed to record it occurs to he a Sothic one, in which 
case no date could he obtained. 

Egyptian technical chronology gives ns no direct 
evidence in favor of the high antiquity which some as- 
sign to the foundation of the first kingdom. The 
earliest record which all Eg} r ptologers are agreed to 
regard as affording a date is of the fifteenth century 
B.C., and no one has alleged any such record to he of 
an earlier time than the twenty-fourth century B.C. 
The Eg}'ptians themselves seem to have placed the 
beginning of the 1st dynasty in the twenty-eighth cen- 
tury Ii.C., but for determining this epoch there is no 
direct monumental evidence, and a comparison with 
Scripture does not favor quite so early a date. See 
Chronology. 

XX. Historical Chronology . — The materials for this 
are the monuments and the remains of the historical 
work of Manetho. Since the interpretation of hiero- 
glyphics has been discovered the evidence of the mon- 
uments has been brought to bear on this subject, but 
as yet it has not been sufficiently full and explicit to 
enable us to set aside other aid. We have still to look 
elsewhere for a general framework, the details of which 
the monuments may fill up. The remains of Manetho 
are now generally held to supply this want. A com- 
parison with the monuments has shown that he drew 
his information from original sources, the general au- 
thenticity of which is vindicated by minute points of 
agreement. The information Manetho gives us, in the 
present form of his work, is, however, by no means ex- 
plicit, and it is only by a theoretical arrangement of 
the materials that they take a definite form. The re- 
mains of Manetlio’s historical work consist of a list of 
the Egyptian dynasties and two considerable frag- 


EGYPT 


91 


EGYPT 


ments, one relating to the Shepherds, the other to a 
tale of the Exodus. The list is only known to us in 
the epitome given by Africanus, preserved by Syncel- 
lus, and that given by Eusebius. These present such 
great differences that it is not reasonable to hope that 
we can restore a correct text. The series of dynasties 
is given as if they were successive, in which case the 
commencement of the first would be placed full 5000 
years B.C., and the reign of the king who built the 
Great Pyramid, 4000. The monuments do not war- 
rant so extreme an antiquity, and the great majority 
of Egyptologers have therefore held that the dynasties 
were partly contemporary. A passage in the frag- 
ment of Manetlio respecting the Shepherds, where he 
speaks of the kings of the Theba'is and of the rest of 
Egypt rising against these foreign rulers, makes it al- 
most certain that he admitted at least three contempo- 
rary lines at that period (Josephus, Afrion, i, 14). The 
naming of dynasties anterior to the time of a single 
kingdom, and then of later ones, which we know gen- 
erally held sway over all Egypt — in other words, the 
first seventeen, distinct from the 18th and following 
dynasties — lends support to this opinion. The former 
are named in groups : first a group of Thinites,then one 
of Memphites, broken by a dynast} 1 - of Elephantinites, 
next a Heracleopolite line, etc., the dynasties of a par- 
ticular city being grouped together ; whereas the lat- 
ter generally present but one or two together of the 
same name, and the dynasties of different cities recur. 
The earlier portion seems therefore to represent par- 
allel lines, the later a succession. The evidence of 
the monuments leads to the same conclusion. Kings 
who unquestionably belong to different dynasties are 
shown by them to be contemporary (see, for example, 
in Rawlinson’s Herod . ii, 289). In the present state 
of Egyptology this evidence has led to various results 
as to the number of contemporary dynasties, and the 
consequent duration of the whole history. One great 
difficulty is that the character of the inscriptions makes 
it impossible to ascertain, without the explicit mention 
of two sovereigns, that any one king was not a sole 
ruler. For example, it has lately been discovered that 
the 12th dynasty was for the greatest part of its rule a 
double line; yet its numerous monuments in general 
give no hint of more than one king, although there 
was almost always a recognised colleague. Therefore, 
a fortiori, no notice would be taken, if possible, on any 
monument of a ruler of another house than that of the 
king in whose territory it was made. We can there- 
fore scarcely expect very full evidence on this subject. 
Mr. Lane, as long ago as 1830, proposed an arrange- 
ment of the first seventeen dynasties based upon their 
numbers and names. The subjoined table, after Poole, 
contains the dynasties thus arranged, with the approx- 
imative dates B.C. which he assigns to their com- 
mencements. 

I. Thinites 

2T17 Menes. III. Memphites. 

2G50 

II. 2470 IV. 2440 V. Elephantinites. 

2440 

VI. 2200 IX. Ilermonthites. 

2200 

vii. isoo 

VIII. ISOO 

X. 1750 

The monuments will not justify any great extension 
of the period assigned in the table to the first seven- 
teen dynasties. The last date,’ that of the commence- 
ment of the 18th dynasty, cannot be changed more 
than a few years. Some Egyptologists, indeed, place 
it much earlier (Bunsen, B.C. 1625; Bockh, 1655; 
Lepsius, 1684 ; Brugsch, 1706), but they do so in oppo- 
sition to positive monumental evidence. The date of 
the beginning of the 1st dynasty, which Poole is dis- 
posed to place a little before B.C. 2700, is more doubt- 
ful, but a concurrence of ethnological evidence points 


to the twenty-fifth century. The interval between 
the two dates cannot therefore be greatly more or less 
than nine hundred years, a period quite in accord- 
ance with the lengths of the dynasties according to the 
better text, if the arrangement here given be correct. 
Some have supposed a much greater antiquity for the 
commencement of Egyptian history (Bunsen, B.C. 
3623; Lepsius, 3892; Brugsch, 4455 ; Bockh, 5702). 
Their system is founded upon a passage in the chrono- 
logical work of Syncellus, which assigns a duration of 
3555 years to the thirty dynasties ( Citron . p. 51 n). It 
is by no means certain that this number is given an 
the authority of Manetlio, but apart from this, the 
whole statement is unmistakably not from the true 
Manetlio, hut from some one of the fabricators of chro- 
nology, among whom pseudo-Man etho held a promi- 
nent place ( Kncijc . Brit. 8th edit., “Egypt,” p.452; 
Quarterly Review , No. 210, p. 395-7). If this number 
be discarded as doubtful or spurious, there is nothing 
definite to support the extended system so confidently 
put forth by those who adopt it. 

The importance of this ancient list of Egyptian 
kings — it being, in fact, the only completely connected 
line extant — requires a fuller exhibit than we find in 
the dictionaries of Smith and Kitto, from which a 
large part of the other investigations of this article is 
derived. The dates given by us are essentially those 
assigned by Wilkinson in Bawlinson’s Herodotus , vol. 
ii, chap. viii. The identifications are in part made 
by Kenrick ( Egypt under the Pharaohs , vol. ii). The 
names of Manetlio exhibit many striking coincidences 
with the elements afforded by the latest researches 
and discoveries, especially Mariette’s “Apis list” on 
the tablet of Sakkarnh, Diimichen's “Sethos list” on 
that of Abydos, and the “Turin papyrus,” as these 
are given in detail by Unger ( Chronoloejie des Manet ho, 
Berlin, 1867), although we have not been able to adopt 
all the conclusions of this author, whose work is the 
most elaborate on the subject. The fact that the 
names in all these lists are in continuous order does 
not prove an unbroken succession of reigns, for such 
is the case in Manetho’s list, although lie expressly 
states that the several dynasties were of different local- 
ities. That the dynasties of the monumental lists like- 
wise are not all consecutive is further proved by at 
least two conclusive circumstances: 1. The sum of the 
years of those 74 reigns, to which an explicit length is 
assigned in the Turin roll, is 1060 ; now if to this we 
add a corresponding number for the other 160 reigns 
whose duration is not specified in the same document, 
and also for the 10 subsequent names in the parallel 
lists down to Sethi I (B.C. 1322), we obtain a total of 
3484 years for the first eighteen dynasties, or a date 
for Menes of B.C. 4806; hut this would be 2144 years 
before the Flood , even according to the longest compu- 
tation of the Biblical text. See Ages of the World. 


XI. Piospolites. 
2200, 


Shepherd*. 
XV. and XV 

XII. 20SO 

XIV. Xoites. 

XIII. 1920 

20S0 

20S0 

XVIII. 1525 


XVII. 

1GS0 


2. Several dynasties are wholly and designedly omit- 
ted in one of these monumental lists, which are given 
at length in the others (e. g. the 7th, 8th, 9th, 13th, 
14th, and 15th), and at least one of them (the 11th) is 
absent in all of them, not to speak of numerous gaps 
and discrepancies : they must therefore, if at all trust- 
worthy, he intended as contemporaneous lines in dif- 
ferent sections of the empire, precisely as were those 
of Manetlio, who frequently dispatches an entire dy- 
nasty without any details whatever, as being of local 
importance only. See Manetho. 


Dynasty. 


EGYPT 


92 


EGYPT 


TABLE OF TITE EGYPTIAN REIGNS. 


[IV. 

[in. 


1 Order. 1 

| 

| Manetho. 

2 

§ 

Various Readings, 
aad other Authors. 

1 

On the Ancient Monuments. 

Turin 

Papyrus. 

Tablet 

| of Abydos. 

Tablet 

of Sakkarah. 

1. 

| Menes 

02 

Menas, etc. 

60, 3C 

1, l,Mena 


1, Mena 


2. 

Athothis 

57 

Athothes. etc. 27, 5b 

2, Atu(t) 


2, Tuta 


3. 

Kenkenes 

31 


39, 32 










3, 


3, Atutu 


4. 

Oueu5phe3 

23 

Ouennfphes 

42 










4, .... a 


4, Ata 


5. 

Ousaphais 

20 

Ousaphaidos 


5, Husapati 


5, Husapati 


6. 

Miebidos 

26 

Niebais 


6, Merbat-pen 


6, Merbat-pu 

I , Merbat-pen 

7. 

Semempsea 

is 

Mempses 


7, Mensa-nepher 

7, Ptah- 


8. 

Bieiieches 

26 

'Oubienthis 


8, . . buhu 


8, Kebubu 

2, Kebuhu 

1. 

Boethos 

38 

) Bocho8 


9 bau 


9, Bu-zau 

3, Nuter-bau 

2. 

Kai^chos 

39 

Chobs 


10, . . . kau 


10, Ka-kau 

4, Ka-kau 

"3. 

Binothris 

47 

Biophis, etc. 


11, . . nuter-ea 


11, Ba-nuter-en 

5, Bn-nuter-u 

4. 

Tlas 

17 



12, 


12, Vet-nas 

6, Vet-las 

5. 

Sctliene3 

41 



13, Seneta 


13, Seneta 

7, Seaeta 

6. 

Ohuires 

17 



14, Heru-ka 




7. 

NepherchSres 

25 



15, .... . 



8, Nepher-ke-ra 

8. 

Sesochris 

49 



16, Sokaru 




9. 

Chen^reS 

30 



17, Chea(nu)ra 









II, a, 1, ... 

2, . . . . 

3 




I. 

Xecherophes 

28 

Necherochis 


4, Nepber-ke-so- 


9, Sokar-nepher- 






karu 

8 


ke 

2. 

Tosorthros 

29 

Sesorthos, etc 

6 





3. 

Tureis 

7 

Gosormies 

30 





4. 

Mesodiris 

17 

Mares 

27 





5. 

Sotiphis 

16 

Anoiiphis 

20 

5, Hu-zepbau 

16 


10, Zeph 






6, Babi 

27 

14, Zazi 

11, Babi 


[Three names 









misplaced.] 








9. 

Kerpk£res 

26 

Knoubos 

22 

7, Nebka(-ra ?) 

19 

15, Nebka 

14, Ra-nebka 

1. 

Soris 

29] 

Sirius 

18 

b, 1 , Seri 

19 

16, Ser-tat 

1 2, Sera 

6. 

ToSertasia 

19 



2, Ser-tat 

6 

17, Tetn 

13, Ser-teta 

7. 

Aches 

42 



3, Huai-acbu 

7 

1f«, Sezes 

15, Huni 

8. 

Sephouris 

30] 



4, Saephru 

24 20, Snephru 

16, Snephru 


[One misplaced.] 








2. 

Soupbis 

63 



5, 

27 

21, Shuphu 

17, Shuphuph 






6, 

8 22, Ra-tateph 

18, Ra-tateph 

3. 

Souphis 

66 



7, 

23 j 

23, Ra-shaph 

19, Ra-shauph 








24, Ra-men-keo 

20, 





13 

9, 


25, Ases-kaph 

21, 

6^ 

Bichdris 

22 

Biures 

10 

io' 

18 


7. 

SebercbCrea 

7 



11, 

4 


23, 

S. 

Thnmpthis 

9 



12, 

2| 


24 

1. 

Ousercheres 

28 



13, .... ka 

7 

26, Ves(ur)-kepb 

25, Vesur-ke 

2. 

Sephres 

13 



14, 

12,27, Sahu-ra 

26, SHhu-ra 

3. 

Nepherchgres 

20 



«, 1, . . . ke- 



27, Ra-nepher-ke- 









ari 

4. 

Sisires 

7 



2, 

7 28,-keka 

28, Ases-ke-ra 

5. 

Cheres 

20 



3, 

10 29, Ra-nuphi 

29, Ra-shn-nepher 

6. 

Rhathoures 

44 



4, 

11 

30, Ra-vesnr-en 


7. 

Menech&res 

9 



5, Har-menka 

8 31, Har-menkeu 

30, Har-menke 


Tanchfres 

44 

MoschSres 

31 

6, Tat(ti) 

28 32, Ra-tat-ke 

31, Ra-ma-ke 

9 . 

Onnos 

33 

Obnos 


7, Unas 

30 ; 

33, Unas 

32, Unaa 

1. 

Othdcs 

30 

Mosthes 

33 

III, a, 1, 


34, Teta 

33, Teta 








35. Ra-vesur-ke 


2. 

Phios 

53 



2, 

20 

36, Ra-meri 

34, Pepi 

3. 

Methousouphis 

7 



3, 

14 37, Ra-iner-en 

35, Ra-mer-en ] 

4. 

Phiops 

100 

Apappous 


4, 

90 

38, Ra-uepher-ke 

36, Ra-aepher-ke 

5. 

Menthesouphis 

1 

Echeskesokarts 

5, 

1 

39, Ment-ein-saph 


6. 

Nitokris 

12 

queen 

6 

6, Nit-akeri 


40, Ra-aeter-ke 



70 [ v. r. 5] kings 


[! In dailv 







2 months 


turn] 70d. 7oy. 

b, 1, Ka-nepter 









2, Sa-nepher 









3, Abe 









5, Abe-n-ra 









6, Sepbi suk 









7, Pesst-en-spet 

2 








8, PaU-asu 

4 








9, Ser-heru-nibu 

2 








10, 

1 








11, 





28 [v. r. 5] kings 

146 

[Successively] 

I00y, 

IV, a, I, 


41, Ra-mea-ke 







2, 


42, Ra-nepher-ke 







3, Ra-nepher-ke 


43, Rn-nepber-ke-nebi 







4, Sbroti 


44, Ra-peliurer-mat 







5, Se-heru-herri 


45, Ra-nepher-sheatu 







6, 


46, Hnr-mer-en 







7, Mer . . . 


47, Snepher-ke 







8, Meh . . . 


48, Ra-en-ke 







9, Hu . . . 


49, Rn-ke-rerelt 







b, 1, 


50, Har-nepher-ke 







2, Ra-nepber-ke 


51, Ra-ke Pepi-seaeb 







3, Shenti 


52, Ra-ke-annu 







4, Vesuri 


53, Ra-en-keu 







5, 


54, Ra-nepher-keu 









55, Ha'.-neuher-keu 









56, Ra-nepner-ari-ke 


1. 

AchthRi : 3 and 18 


Achthoa 


V, 1, Men(tu-hotp) 





others 

409 

13 others 

100 

2, Enteph 

3, 1 



1 






4, 

5, Ra-neb-8heru 


57, Ra-neb-sheru 

37, Ra-neh-sheru 






6, Ua-s’anch-ke 


58, Ra-s’anch-ke 

3S, Ra-s’anch-ke 


Other 

Inscriptions. 


Designation 
t*y most 
Writers. 


Nepherkera 


Nuphreka I. 


! Huni-ba 
! 11,5, Hespti 


Ke-ke-oa 

? Uses-keph 
-nuter-ka 
Men-ke-ra 
Nepher-ke-ra 
? Nepher-ke-ra 
? Tat-ke-ra 
? Nepher-ke-ra 
? Merenhor 
Snuph-re-ka 
Ka-en-ra 
Nepher-ke-ra 
-nupb-re-ka 
! Nupb-re-ka- 
enst 

f Snuph-re-ka 


Skuphu 


Shuphu 

Shuphu 

Men-ke-ra 

Ba-ke-ra 

Shepher-ke-ra 

? Ra-ap-amh 

Vesur-keph 

Shuph-ra 

Neplier-ke-ra 


? Vesur-en-ra 
Menke-har 
Ra-tat-ke-Ases 
Onas ' 

Ati 

(Ra-meri-)Pepi Pepi I. 


Acces- 

sion, 

B.C. 


Shuphu I. 


Shuphu II. 
Shuphu III. 


Mentoph I. 
Enteph 1. 


Eutepb, 


i-hotp, or Mentoph II. 
;ph, etc. Enteph II., 


Dynasty. 


EGYPT 93 EGYPT 

TABLE OF THE EGYPTIAN REIGNS.— (Continued.) 


19 kiuga 


Various Readings, 
and other Authors, 


Ammengmes 
Sesonchosis j 
Aunnenemes 

Sesostris 

Laeharea 

Am5res 


Skemiftphris 

kings 



On the Ancient Monuments. 


Designation 
by mo9t 
Writers. 

Acees* 

TSirin 

1 Tablet 

T Mel 

Other 

sion. 

ll.C. 

Papyrus. 

| of Abydos. 

of Sakkarah. 

Inscriptions. 


12 


Ousimaris 
Sethinilos 
Sempbroukrntes 18 
Chouther 7 

Meiire6 12 

Chomaemphtha 11 

Soikounoa 
16 Peteathuris 
46|Gesong6sis, etc. 

38 1 Ammanemes 

ds'siatosichermea 
8 1 Lamar is, etc. 

8 Mares 43 


76 king* 


VI, 


1 , Ra-s’hetep-hati 

2, . . . . ke 46;59, 


7, Shereuna 

8, Ra-aebek-nophru 
VII, a, 1, Ra T shu-toti 1 


Ra*ahepher-ke 
auiou, Ra-nub-keu 

19 61 , Ra-ke-shepher 
30 1 62, Ra-aha-keu 
40|63, Ra-n-maab 

9 64, Ra-sheruma 


2, Ra-ka-shem 6 

3, Ra-amen-em-liati 2 

4, Ra-setep-hati 1 

5, Auph-na 

6, Ra-s’auch-hati 12 

7, Ra-s’men-ke 22 

8, Ra-setp-hati 27 

9, Ra-s’nezem-ke 21 

10 , 

1 1 , Ra-nezem-liati 

12, Ra-sebek-hotp 

13, Ra-nepher-ke 

14, Ra-vutu-hati 

15, Ra-sezephau-hotp 

16, Ra-shem-shu Se- 

bek-hotp 

17, Ra-vesur-shu 

18, Ra-s’mench-ke 

Mer-men-phiu 

19, .... ke 

20, . vesiu Seth 

21, Ra-shetn Sebek- 3 

hotp 

b, l,Ra-she Nepher-11 

hotp 

2, P-se-n-hathor 

3, Ra-slu-nepher Se- 

bek-hotp 

4, 

5, 

6, Ra-she-hotp 5 

7, Ra-hati Aa-hati 11 

c, 1, Ra-meri-nepher 14 

Ai 

2, Ra-meri-hotp 2 

3, Ra - s’anch - en - 3 

a’vutu 

4, Ra-mer-shem- 3 

Au-ran 

5, Ra-s’vut-keu 10 

Hora 

6, Ra-sem-zam 


7, • 


10 , . 

11, . 

12 , . 

13, . 

14, . 

15, . 

16, Ra-mer-9 

17, Ra-meri-I 

18, Ra-sbem-vut- 

8hau 

19 

20 , 

21 , 


shepher 

•keu 


22 , 

23, . . . meau 

24, Ma-n-ra Abe 

25, Ra-uben Nran 

26, Ra . . . ke 

27, Ra . . . ma 

28, 

29, 

30, Ra-nehnsi 

31, Ra-she-shru 

32, Ra-neb-em-vutu 21 
VIII, a, 1, Ra-aeheb-ai 

2, Ra-mer-zepha 

3, Ra-s’vut-ke 

4, Ra-zephau-ra-nib 1 

5, Ra-uben 


8, Ra-neb-zepha 

9, Ra-uben 

10, Ra-a’vutu-het 

11, Ra-heri-het 

12, Ra-nab-aerm 1 i 

13, 


14 , 

15, Ra-be 

16, Se-shepher-en-ra 2 

17, Ra-tat-sheru 

18, Ra-s’anch-ke 


39, Ra-a’hetep-hnti 

40, Ra-abepher-ke 

41, Ra-nub-ke 

42, Ra-ke-shepher 

43, Ra-sba-ke 
54, Ra-n-maat 

45, Ra-aheruma 

46, Ra-aebek-ke 


Ra 

Ra-snepher-ke 

Ra-neb-nem 

Ra-nub-sheper 

Ve8ur-en-ra 


Necht-en-ra 
Ra-skenen 
Amen-em-hat 
Ra-ke Vesur-tesen 
Ra-nub-ke Amen- 
em-hat 
Vesur-tesen 
Ra-keu Vesur-tesen I 
Ra-mat Auiar-em- 
bat 

Ra-sheruma Amen- 
em-hat 
Ra-sebek-nophru 
Ra-shem -snu-toti' Sebakhotp I. 
Sehek-hotp 


Amunemhet I. 
Osirtasen I. 
Amunemhet II. 

Osirtasen II. 
'Osirtasen III. 
Amunemhet 

III. 

Amunemhet IV. 


Sebek-hotp 

Sebek-hotp 
? Ra-messu 

Sebek-hotp 

Nepher-hotp 

Sebek-hotp 
Ra-she Sebek-hotp 


Ra-meri-hotp A-na 
Ra-a’vutu-en 


Sebakhotp II. 
Sebakhotp III. 

Sebakhotp IV. 

Sebakhotp V. 
Sebakhotp VI. 


Ra-meri-keu 

Ra-shem-vutu 

Sebek-em-tat 
Ra-6hu-anch, Se- 
bek-hotp 


Sebakhotp VII, 


Se-shepher-en-ra 


Dynasty. 


EGYPT 


94 


EGYPT 


TABLE OF THE EGYPTIAN REIGNS. — (Continued.) 


| Various Readings, 
and other Authors. 


On the Ancient Monuments. 


Turin 

Papyrus. 


Tablet Tablet 

of Abydos. of Sakkarah. 


Other 

Inscriptions. 


Designation 
by most 
Writers. 


Acces- 

sion. 

BC. 


XVI. 

XVII. 
XVIII. 


1. Suites 

2. Buon 

3. Apachnan 

4. Apliobis 

5. Staan 

6. j Archies 

32 kings 
86 kings 

1, Amosis 

[One misplaced.] 

3. 1 Amenophthis 

2. Chebros 

4. Amensis 

5. Misaphria 

6. Misphragmouthosis 

1. Touthmosis 

8. Ameoophis 

9. Horns 

10. Acherrhes 

11. Rathos 

12. Chebres 

13. j Acherrhes II 

14. [Armais 

15. iRhiimmtfses 


[One misplaced.] 
Sethos 

Rhapsakea 

Amenophnth 

Armenophthes 

Uhamesses 


19 Silites 
44 Baion 


Apachnas 
6, Aphophis 
Sethos, etc. 
Asseth, etc. 


Tethmosis 


16.] 


6, Ammenemnes 
6. Tlionoris 
12 kings 


Amemphis i 

Chebron 
22 1 A messes 
13:6, Miphre8 ] 

2615, Mephragmou- 
tnosis 

9|Thmosis ] 

31 Memnon 


] 2 j Acheneherses 
9 Athoris 
12 Chencheres 
12 Akench&res, etc. 30 

5 Arm5sis 
3 Rh am esses I 

Rbamesses Mia- 


Rhampses 

Amenophi8 

Amenophis 

Sethos 

Ammenemes 


19, Ra-nepher-bau 

20, Ra-shem 

21 , Ra-ke-der 

b, 1, Ra-nepher-het 

2, Ra-a . . abe 

3, Ra-shau 

4, Ra-anut-ke 

5, Ra-s’men 

6, Ra . . . 

7, 


9, Ra-shem . . 

10, Ra-shein . . 

1 1 , Ra-shem . . 

12, Ra-sesen . . 

13, Ra-neb-aten- 

vutu 

14, Ra-neb-aten 

vutu 

15, Ra-s’men-ke 

16, Ra-s’vesur-ke 

17, Ra-hau-shed- 

hen’t 

18, 

19, 


21, Ra-vesur . . 

22, Ra-vesur . . 

23 


c, 1, . 


3, 
d, 1, 


, . . Nerau 
> . hebai 


10 , 
11 , . 


. . . mbit 

13, . . . n-nth 

14, 

15, Ra . . . . 

16, Ra . . . . 

17, 

IS 

19, Ra-s’nepher-ke 

20, Ra-meoch-heru 

21, Hu ... . 


e, 1, . 

2 , . 


. . ke 
. . ke 
ke Ilapn 
ke Ha-ua- 
tha 

ke Bebnuu 
. . ke 

en-nn Aamu 
n . . ateph 30 
? Ap . . . 

! Ap . . . 


queen of 


! regent 
queen 


65, Aah-mes 

66, Amen-hotp 

67, T nul-mes 

68, Taut-mes 

69, Taut-mes 

70, Amen-hotp 

71, Taut-mes 

72, Amen-hotp 

73, Hnr-erm- 
heb 


74, Ra-m 


75, Seti 

76, Ra-messu 


? Pianki 
! Ab- 


Aah-mes 


47, Aah-mes 


48, Amen-hotp 'Amen-hotp 

49, Taut-mes Taut-mes 

50, Taut-mes Taut-mes 

51 , Taut-mes Taut-mes 

52, Amen-hotp ! Amen-hotp 

53, Taut-mes Taut-mes 

54, Amen-hotp Amen-hotp 

Amen-hotp 

55, Har-erm- Har-erm-beb 
heb 

? Resitot 

Ra-shephru-neb, or 
Amen -anch- tut - 
hak 

Amen-mer 
Ra-mesesu 


Ames I 

Amenoph I. 
Thothmes I. 
Thothmes II. 
Thothmes III. 

Amenoph IT. 
Thothmes IV, 
Amenoph III. 


57, Seti 


Ra-mna-nien Seti 

Ra - messu - mer - 
amen 

Mern -ptali -liotp- 
her 

Seti Mern-ptah 

Ra-messu hak 

Amen -amen 

Neta-hor 

Ra-vesur Ra-messu 

Rn-sur Ra-messu 

Uncertain. 

Ra - nepher Ra - 
messu 

Rn-messu Rn-she- 
plier 

Rn-shn Ra-messu 

Mer -amen Ra- 
messu 

Shu-muab Ra- 
mesfn 

Th* rest uncertain. 


Sethi I. 
Rameses II. 
Meneptah I. 


1322 
1307 
! 1247 


Sethi II, Me- ! 1240 
neptah II. 

Rameses III. 


Rameses IV. 
Rameses V. 


Rnmeses VI. 
Rameses VII. 


Rameses VIII, 
Rameses IX. 


EGYPT 95 EGYPT 


TABLE OF THE EGYFTIAN REIGNS. — {Continued.) 


Dynas- 

ty. 

Order. 

Manetho. 

Years. 

Various Readings, 
and other Authors. 

On the Monuments. 

Designation 
by most 
Writers. 

Acces- 

sion. 

B.C. 

XXI. 

1 . 

Smendea 

26 

Stneudis 

46 

} Nes-ben-tet 


1085 

2. 

Psouaennes 

41 

Xepherchdres 

Ammeuopbtbia 





3. 

4. 

Nephelchdrea 

Amendphthia 

4 

9 


! Amun-se Pebor 






6 



? Fi-anch 




6. 

Psinaehea 

9 


35 






14 

Sousennes 

1 Pi-shatn 

Sheshonk I. 


XXII. 



21 

Sesonchosia 


Ra-het Sheshonk 

9S9 


Osorthon 

15 

Osorchon 


Ra-sheru Osarkan 

Osorkon I. 

968 





1 Ra-bet Tekerot 

Tiklat 1. 

! 957 



3 others 

25 



Ra-vesur Osarkan 

Osorkon 11. 

i 943 




{ 

Ra-shem Shesbonk 

Sheshonk II. 

? 920 


6. 

Takelotbis 

13 

3, 

( 

Ra-het Tekerot 

Tiklat 1 11. 

? Osorkon III. 

! 905 
? 890 



3 others 

42 


- 

Ra-vesur Sheshonk 

Sheshonk HI. 

! 862 




( 


i Tiklat III. 

! 833 

XXIII. 






Ra-vesur Pimai 

? Pishai. 

1 MS 






Ra-aa-shepher Sheahonk 

Sheshonk IV. 

? 796 


1 . 


40 

Petouhates 

25 

Ra-sehar Pet-si-bast 

Pet- Bash t. 

? MS 


2. 

Osorcho 

8 

Osorthon 

9 

Ra-aa-shepher Osarkan 

Ra-vesur P’si-mut 

1 Osorkon IV. 

« 783 


3. 


10 




\ 775 


4. 

Zet 

31 


34 



? 765 

XXIV. 


6 


44 

? Bek-en-rauph 

Shebek I. 

734 

XXV. 

1. 

Sabakon 

8 


12 

Ra nepher-slie Shebake 

3 728 

1 716 


Sebichos 

14 


12 

Ra-tet-keu Shebateke 

Shebek 11. 


3. 

Tarkos . 

IS 

Tarakos 

20 

Ra-nepher-teru-shu Taharba 

Tehrak. 

690 

XXVI. 

1. 

Atntneria 

12 







Stepbinates 

7 

2, 






2. 

Xechepsoa 

•6 

3, 






3. 

Xechao 

8 

4, Nachao 



Psametik I. 

664 


4. 

PsauunetichoS 

54 

Psammetuchos 

46 

Rn-ah-het Paernitik 


5. 

Xechao 11 

6 

Neehepsos 


Ra-nem-het Nekau 

Neku. 

CIO 


6. 

Psammouthis II 

6 

Psamruetichoa 

17 

Ra-nepher-het Psemitik 

Psametik II. 

594 


7. 

Onaphris 

Amosis 

19 


25 

Ra-haa-het Ru-ah-het 

Vaprahat. 

588 


8. 

44 


42 

Ra-knum-het Aah-mes 

Ames II. 

569 


9. 

Psammecberitea 

4 

Ra-anch-ka’u Psemitik 

Psametik III. 

525 

XXVII. 

1. 

Kambnses 

[Smerdis, 7 months.] 

Dareios Ison of) Hustaspos 

4 


6 

Ra mesnt Kambotk 

Cambyaea. 

Darius I. 

525 

521 


2. 

36 



Ra-amen-mari N tarnish 


3. 

Xerxes toe Great 

21 

4, Artabanoa 

f. 

Khsersha 

Xerxes 1. 

Artaxerxes I. 

485 

465 


4. 

Artaxerxes 

41 

The Long-handed 

40 

Artakhshersba 


5. 



Xerxes II 




424 



[Sogdianus, 

Dareios 

19 




Darius II. 

423 

XXVIII. 


Amurtaioa 

6 

AmurtSos 


Amen-ret-kam 

N-ephaorot. 

Hakor. 

414 

XXIX. 

1 . 

NepberiteS 

Acndris 

6 



Ra-ba’n-netru Naipb-au-ret 
Ra-uiaa’t-khnum Ilakar 

408 

2. 

10 


13 

402 


3. 

Psamouthia 

1 

Paammontbia 




389 


4. 



Xepherites 2 mos. 



388 





Mouthis 

1 



388 

XXX. 

1 . 

Nek tan She 3 

IS 

Nektandbis 

lfi 

Ra-s’nezein Nekt-har-heb 

Nektaneb I. 

387 

2. 



Teds 

0 

? Ze(t)-ho 


* 3G9 


3. 

Nektaneboa 

18 


8 

Ra-shepher-ke Nekt-neb 

Nektaneb II. 

361 

XXXI. 

1 . 

Ochos 

6 

Olcbos 

2 

Artaxerxes III. 

343 

2. 

Arses 

3 


4 


Arses. 

33S 


3. 

Dareios 

4 


6 


Darius III. 

336 




Conquest of Egypt by Alexander the Great. 


332 


XXI. History . — 1. Traditionary Period . — We have 
first to notice the indications in the Bible which relate 
to the earliest period. In Gen. x we find the colo- 
nization of Egypt traced up to the immediate children 
of Noah, for it is there stated that Mizraim was the 
second son of Ham, who was himself the second son of 
Noah. That Egypt was colonized by the descendants 
of Noah in a very remote age is further shown by the 
mention of the migration of the Philistines from Capli- 
tor, which had taken place before the arrival of Abra- 
ham in Palestine (Gen. x, 14; compare Deut. ii, 23; 
Amos ix, 27). Before this migration could occur the 
Caplitorim and other Mizraites must have occupied 
Egypt for .some time. Immediately after these gene- 
alogical statements, the sacred narrative (Gen. xii) in- 
forms us that the patriarch Abraham, pressed by fam- 
ine, went down (B.C. 2087) into Egypt, where it ap- 
pears he found a monarch, a court, princes, and serv- 
ants, and where he found also those supplies of food 
which the well-known fertility of the country had led 
him to seek there ; for it is expressly stated that the 
favor which his wife had won in the reigning Phara- 
oh’s eyes procured him sheep and oxen, as well as he- 
asses, and men-servants, and maid-servants, and she- 
asses, and camels. A remarkable passage points to a 
knowledge of the date at which an ancient city of 
Egypt was founded: “Hebron was built seven years 
before Zoan in Egypt” (Num. xiii, 22). We find that 
Hebron was originally called Kirjath-arba, and was a 
city of the Anakim (Josh, xiv, 15), and it is mentioned 
under that appellation in the history of Abraham (Gen. 
xxiii, 2) : it had therefore been founded by the giant- 
race before the days of that patriarch. In Gen. xxi, 
9, mention is made in the case of Ishmael, the son of 
Hagar the Egyptian, whose mother took him a wife 
out of the land of Egypt (B.C. cir. 2055), of a mixed 


race between the Egyptians and the Chaldseans, a race 
which in after times became a great nation. From 
this mixture of races it has been supposed the Arabs 
(n'nr, “mixed people”) had their name (Sharpe’s Ear- 
ly Ilist. of Egypt , i, 11). 

The evidence of the Egyptians as to the primeval 
history of their race and country is extremely indefi- 
nite. They seem to have separated mankind into two 
great stocks, and each of these again into two branch- 
es, for the}’- appear to have represented themselves and 
the negroes, the red and black races, as the children 
of the god Horns, and the Shemites and Europeans, 
the yellow and white races, as the children of the god- 
dess Pesht (comp. Brugsch, Geogr. Inschr. ii, 90, 91). 
They seem, therefore, to have held a double origin of 
the species. The absence of any important traditional 
period is very remarkable in the fragments of Egyp- 
tian history. These commence with the divine dynas- 
ties, and pass abruptly to the human dynasties. f Ihe 
latest portion of the "first may indeed be traditional, 
not mythical, and the earliest part of the second may 
he traditional and not historical, though this last con- 
jecture we are hardly disposed to admit. In any case, 
however, there is a very short and extremely obscure 
time of tradition, and at no great distance from the 
earliest date at which it can be held to end we come 
upon the clear light of history in the days of the pyra- 
mids. The indications are of a sudden change of seat, 
and the settlement in Egypt of a civilized race, which, 
either wishing to be believed autochthonous, or having 
lost all ties that could keep up the traditions of its first 
dwelling-place, filled up the commencement of its his- 
tory with materials drawn from mythology. There is 
no trace of the tradition of the Deluge which is found 
in almost every other country of the world. The 


EGYPT 


96 


EGYPT 


priests are indeed reported to have told Solon, when he 
spoke of one deluge, that many had occurred (Plat. 
Tim. 23 ), hut the reference is more likely to have been 
to great hoods of the Nile than to any extraordinary 
catastrophes. See Deluge. 

2. Uncertain Period . — The history of the dynasties 
preceding the 18th is not told by any continuous series 
of monuments. Except the bare lists indicated in the 
above table, there are scarcely any records of the age 
left to the present day, and thence in a great measure 
arises the difficulty of determining the chronology. 
From the time of Menes, the first king, until the Shep- 
herd invasion, Egypt seems to have enjoyed perfect 
tranquillity. During this age the Memphite line was 
the most powerful, and by it, under the 4th dynasty, 
were the most famous pyramids raised. The Shep- 
herds were foreigners who came from the east, and, in 
some manner unknown to Manetho, gained the rule 
of Egypt. Those whose kings composed the 15th dy- 
nasty were the first and most important. They ap- 
pear to have been Phoenicians, and it is probable that 
their migration into Egypt, and thence at last into 
Palestine, was part of the great movement to which 
the coming of the Phoenicians from the Erythraean 
Sea, and the Philistines from Caphtor, belong. It is 
not impossible that the war of the four kings — Che- 
dorlaomer and his allies — was directed against the 
power of the kings of the 15th dynasty. Most proba- 
bly the Pharaoh of Abraham was of this line, which 
lived at Memphis, and at the great fort or camp of 
Avaris on the eastern frontier. The period of Egyp- 
tian history to which the Shepherd invasion should be 
assigned is a point of dispute. It is generally placed 
after the 12th dynasty, for it is argued that this power- 
ful line could not have reigned at the same time as 
one or more Shepherd dynasties. Toole is of the opin- 
ion that this objection is not valid, and that the Shep- 
herd invasion was anterior to the 12th dynasty. It is 
not certain that the foreigners were at the outset hos- 
tile to the Egyptians, for the} r may have come in by 
marriage, and it is by no means unlikely that they 
ma} 7- have long been in a position of secondary impor- 
tance. The rule of the 12th dynasty, which was of 
Thebans, lasting about 1G0 years, was a period of pros- 
perity to Egypt, but after its close those calamities 
appear to have occurred which made the Shepherds 
hated by the Egyptians. During the interval to the 
18th dynasty there seems to have been no native line 
of any importance but that of the Thebans, and more 
than one Shepherd dynasty exercised a severe rule 
over the Egyptians. The paucity of the monuments 
proves the troubled nature of this period. See Hyk- 
sos. 

Of these first seventeen dynasties, Menes, the first 
mortal king of Egypt, according to Manetho, Herodo- 
tus, Eratosthenes, and Diodorus, and preceded, accord- 
ing to the first, by gods, heroes, and Manes (?), vskvsq, 
is accepted on all hands as a historical personage. His 
hieroglyphic name reads MEN1 or MENA, and is the 
first on the list of the Pameseium of el-Kurneh. It is 
also met with in the hieratic of the Turin Papyrus of 
Kings. Strong reasons arc given by Mr. Stuart Poole 
for fixing the date of his accession at B.C. 2717 ( Jloree 
sErjyptiaca f, p. 94-98); but even this date must be 
somewhat lowered, as it would precede that of the 
Flood (B.C. 2515); on the other hand, Unger (nt sup.) 
raises it to June 27, B.C. 5G13. As one step in Poole’s 
argument involves a very ingenious elucidation of a 
well-known statement of Herodotus, we cannot for- 
bear to mention it. Herodotus says that, in the inter- 
val from the first king to Sethon, the priest of He- 
ph rest us, the priests told him that “the sun had four 
times moved from his wonted course, twice rising 
where he now sets, and twice setting where lje' now 
rises.” Upon this Mr. Poole remarks : “It is evident 
that the priests told Herodotus that great p'eriods had 
elapsed since the time of Menes, the first king, and 


that, in the interval from his reign to that of Sethon, 
the solar risings of stars — that is to say, their manifes- 
tations — had twice fallen ou those days of the Vague 
Year on which their settings fell in their time, and 
vice versa; and that the historian, by a natural mis- 
take, supposed they spoke of the sun itself.” Menes 
appears to have been a Thinite king, of the city of 
This, near Abydus, in Upper Eg} r pt. Herodotus as- 
cribes the building of the city of Memphis to him, 
while Manetho says that he made a foreign expedition 
and acquired renown, and that eventually he was 
killed by a hippopotamus. Menes, after a long reign, 
was succeeded by his son Athothis, who was the sec- 
ond king of the first dynasty. Manetho says that he 
built the palace at Memphis, that he was a physi- 
cian, and left anatomical books; all of these state- 
ments implying that even at this early period the 
Egyptians were in a high state of civilization. About 
the time of Athothis, the 3d dynasty is supposed, 
according to the scheme which seems most reasona- 
ble, to have commenced, and Memphis to have be- 
come independent, giving its name to five dynasties 
of kings — 3d, 4th, 6th, 7th, and 8th. The 1st Thinite 
dynasty probably lasted about two centuries and a 
half. Of the 2d very little has reached us ; under 
one of the kings it was determined that women could 
hold the sovereign power; in the time of another it 
w'as fabled, says Manetho, that the Nile flowed mixed 
with honey for the space of eleven days. The dura- 
tion of this dynasty was probably between 300 and 
400 years, and it seems to have come to a close at the 
time of the Shepherd invasion. The 3d (Memphite) 
dynasty, after having lasted about 200 years, was suc- 
ceeded by the 4th, one of the most famous of the lines 
which ruled in Egypt ; while the 5th dynasty of Ele- 
phantinite kings arose at the same time. This was 
emphatically the period of the pyramids, the earliest 
of which was probably the northern pyramid of Abu- 
Sir, supposed to have been the tomb of Soris or .Shu- 
rai, the head of the 4th dynasty. He was succeeded 
by two kings of the name of Suphis, the first of whom, 
the Cheops of Herodotus, the Shuphu of the monu- 
ments, was probably the builder of the great pyramid. 
On these wondrous monuments we find traces at that 
remote period of the advanced state of civilization of 
later ages. The cursive character scrawled on the 
stones by the masons proves that writing had been 
long in common use. Many of the blocks brought 
from vSyene are built together in the pyramids of Ghi- 
zeh in a manner unrivalled at any period. The same 
manners and customs are portrayed on them as on the 
later monuments. The same boats are used, the same 
costume of the priests, the same trades, such as glass- 
blowing and cabinet-making. At the beginning of 
the 4th dynasty, moreover, the peninsula of Sinai was 
in the possession of the Egyptians, and its copper 
mines were worked by them. The duration of this 
dynasty probably exceeded two centuries, and it was 
followed by the 6th. The 5th dynasty of Elephantin- 
ites, as just remarked, began the same time as the 4th. 
The names of several of its kings occur in the Necrop- 
olis of Memphis. The most important of them is Se- 
phres, the Shuphra of the monuments, the Chephren 
of Herodotus, and Chephren of Diodorus. This dy- 
nasty lasted nearly 600 years. Of the 6th dynasty, 
which lasted about 150 years, the two most famous 
sovereigns are Phiops “or Pepi and queen Nitocris. 
The former is said to have ruled for a hundred years. 
With the latter the dynasty closed; for at this period 
Lower Egypt was invaded by the Shepherds, who en- 
tered the country from the north-east, about 700 years 
after Menes, and eventually drove the Memphites 
from the throne. Of the 7th and 8th dynasties noth- 
ing is known with certainty; they probably followed 
the 15th. To the former of them, one version of Ma- 
netho assigns a duration of 70 days, and 150 years to 
the latter. The Sth dynasty of Ileracleopolites, or, 


EGYPT 


07 


EGYPT 


more properly, of Hermonthites, as Sir G. Wilkinson 1 
lias suggested (Rawlinson’s Herod, ii, 293), arose while 
the 0th was in power. Little is known of either the 
9th or 10th dynasties, which together may have lasted 
nearly GOO years, ending at the time of the great Shep- 
herd war of expulsion, which resulted in the over- 
throw of all the royal lines except the Diospolite or 
Theban. With the 11th dynasty commenced the Di- 
ospolite kingdom, which subsequently attained to 
greater power than any other. Amenemhet I was 
the last and most famous king of this dynasty, and 
during part of his reign he was co-regent of Osirtasen 
or Sesertesen I, head of the 12th. An epoch is marked 
in Egyptian history by the commencement of this dy- 
nasty, since the Shepherd rule, which lasted for 500 
years, is coeval with it. The three Osirtasens flour- 
ished in this dynasty, the second of whom is probably 
the Sesostris of Manetho. It began about Abraham’s 
time, or somewhat later. In ancient sculptures in 
Nubia we And kings of the 18th dynasty worshipping 
Osirtasen III as a god, and this is the only case of 
the kind. The third Osirtasen was succeeded by 
Amenemhet III, supposed to be the Moeris of Herodo- 
tus, who built the labyrinth. After the reigns of two 
other sovereigns, this dynasty came to a close, having 
lasted about 1G0 years. The 13th dynasty, which 
lasted some 400 years, probably began before the close 
of the 12th. The kings of this dynasty were of little 
power, and probably tributary to the Shepherds. The 
Piospolites, indeed, did not recover their prosperity 
till the beginning of the 13th dynasty. The 14th, or 
Xoite dynasty, seems to have risen with the 12th. It 
■was named from Xois, a town of Lower Egypt, in the 
northern part of the Delta. It may have lasted for 
nearly 500 years, and probably terminated during the 
great Shepherd war. The loth, 16th, and 17th dynas- 
ties are those of the Shepherds. Who these foreign- 
ers were who are said to have subdued Egypt without 
a battle is a question of great uncertainty. Their 
name is called Hyksos by Manetho, which is variously 
interpreted to mean shepherd kings, or foreign shep- 
herds. They have been pronounced to have been As- 
syrians, Scythians, ^Ethiopians, Phoenicians, and Ar- 
abs. The kings of the 15th dynasty were the greatest 
of the foreign rulers. The kings of the lGth and 17th 
dynasties are very obscure. Mr. Poole says there are 
strong reasons for supposing that the kings of the IGtli 
•were of a different race from those of the 15th, and 
that they may have been Assyrians. Having held 
possession of Egypt 511, or, according to the longest 
date, 625 years, the Shepherds were driven out by 
Ames, or Amosis, the first king of the 18th dynasty ; 
and the whole country was then united under one 
king, who rightly claimed the title of lord of the two 
regions, or of Upper and Lower Egypt. 

3. Period of the Hebrew Sojourn . — In Gen. xxxix 
begins the interesting story of Joseph’s being carried 
down to Egypt, with all its important conseqnences 
for the great-grandchildren of Abraham. The produc- 
tiveness of the country is the allurement, famine the 
impulse. Attendant circumstances show that Eg} r pt 
was then famous also for its commercial pursuits ; and 
the entire narrative gives the idea of a complex sys- 
tem of society (about B.C. 1890), and a well-constitu- 
ted yet arbitrary form of government. As in Eastern 
courts at later periods of history, elevation to high of- 
fices >vas marked and sudden. The slave Joseph is 
taken from prison and from impending death, and 
raised to the dignity of prime vizier, and is intrusted 
with making provision for an approaching dearth of 
food, which he had himself foretold, during which lie 
effects in favor of the ruling sovereign one of the 
greatest revolutions of property which history has re- 
corded. The high consideration in which the priestly 
order was held is apparent. Joseph himself marries a 
daughter of the priest of On. Out of respect towards, 
as well as by the direct influence of Joseph, the He- 
III.— G 


brews were well treated. The scriptural record, how- 
ever, distinctly states (xlvi, 34) that before the de- 
scent of Israel and his sons “every shepherd” was 
“ an abomination unto the Egyptians.” The He- 
brews, whose “trade had been about cattle,” must 
have been odious in the eyes of the Egyptians, yet 
they are expressly permitted to dwell “ in the best of 
the land” (xlvii, G), which is identified with the land 
of Goshen, the place which the Israelites had prayed 
might be assigned to them, and which they obviously 
desired on account of the adaptation of its soil to their 
way of life as herdsmen. Having settled his father 
and family satisfactorily in the land, Joseph proceeded 
to supply the urgent wants of a hungry nation, and at 
the ’same time converted the tenure of all property 
from freehold into tenancy-at-will, with a rent-charge 
of one fifth of the produce, leaving the priests’ lands, 
however, in their own hands; and thus he gave an- 
other evidence of the greatness of their power. 

The richness of Goshen was favorable, and the Is- 
raelites “grew and multiplied exceedingly,” so that 
the land was filled with them. But Joseph was now 
dead ; time had passed on, and there rose up a new 
king (probably one of a new dynasty) “which knew 
(Exod. i, 8) not Joseph,” having no personal knowl- 
edge, and, it may be, no definite information of his 
services ; who, becoming jealous of the increase of the 
Hebrews, set about persecuting them with the avowed 
intention of diminishing their numbers and crippling 
their power. Severe task-masters are therefore set 
over them ; heavy tasks are imposed ; the Hebrews 
are compelled to build “treasure cities, Pithom and 
Raamses.” It is found, however, that they only in- 
crease the more. In consequence, their burdens are 
doubled and their lives made bitter with hard bondage 
(Exod. i, 14), “in mortar and in brick, and in all man- 
ner of service in the field.” See Brick. Their first- 
born males, moreover, are doomed to destruction the 
moment they come into being. The deepest heart- 
burnings ensue ; hatred arises between the oppressor 
and the oppressed ; the Israelites seek revenge in pri- 
vate and by stealth (Exod. ii, 12). At last a higher 
power interferes, and the afflicted race is permitted to 
quit Egypt (B.C. 1658). At this time Egypt appears 
to have been a well-peopled and well-cultivated coun- 
try, with numerous cities, under a despotic monarch, 
surrounded by officers of his court and a life-guard. 
There was a ceremonial at audience, a distinction of 
ranks, a state-prison, and a prime minister. Great 
buildings were carried on. There was set apart from 
the rest of the people an order of priests who probably 
filled offices in the civil government ; the priest of 
Midian and the priest of On seem to have ruled over 
the cities so named. There was in the general class 
of priests an order — wise men, sorcerers, and magi- 
cians — who had charge of a certain secret knowledge; 
there -were physicians or embalmers of the dead ; the 
royal army contained chosen captains, and horsemen, 
and chariots. The attention which the people at large 
paid to agriculture, and the fixed notions of property 
which they in consequence had, made them hold the 
shepherd or nomade tribes in abhorrence, as freeboot- 
ers only less dangerous than hunting-tribes. See 
Piiaraoii. 

According to the scheme of Biblical chronology, 
which we have adopted as the most probable, the 
whole sojourn in Egypt would belong to the period be- 
fore the 18th dynasty. The Israelites w'ould have 
come in and gone forth during that obscure age, for the 
history of which w r e have little or no monumental evi- 
dence. This would explain the absence of any posi- 
tive mention of them on the Egyptian monuments. 
Some assert that they were an unimportant Arab tribe, 
and therefore would not be mentioned, and that the 
calamities attending their departure could not be com- 
memorated. These two propositions are contradictory, 
and the difficulties are unsolved. If, as Lepsius sup- 


EGYPT 


98 


EGYPT 


poses, the Israelites came in under the 18th dynasty, 
and went out under the 19th, or if, as Bunsen holds, 
they came in under the 12th, and (after a sojourn of 
1434 years!) went out under the 19th, the oppression 
in both cases falling in a period of which we have 
abundant con tern porary monuments, sometimes the 
records of every year, it is impossible that the monu- 
ments should be wholly silent if the Biblical narrative 
is true. Let us examine the details of that narrative. 
At the time to which we should assign Joseph’s rule, 
Egypt was under Shepherds, and Egyptian kings of 
no great strength. Since the Pharaoh of Joseph must 
have been a powerful ruler and held Lower Egypt, 
there can be no question that he was, if the dates be 
correct, a Shepherd of the 15th dynasty. How "does 
the Biblical evidence affect this inference? Nothing 
is more striking throughout the ilhcient Egyptian in- 
scriptions and writings than the bitter dislike of most 
foreigners, especially Easterns. They are constantly 
spoken of in the same terms as the inhabitants of the 
infernal regions, not alone when at war with the Pha- 
raohs, but in time of peace and in the case of friend- 
ly nations. It is a feeling paralleled in our days by 
that of the Chinese alone. The accounts of the Greek 
writers, and the whole history of the later period, abun- 
dantly confirm this estimate of the prejudice of the 
Egyptians against foreigners. It seems to us perfect- 
ly incredible that Joseph should be the minister of an 
Egyptian king. In lesser particulars the evidence is 
not less strong. The Pharaoh of Joseph is a despot, 
whose will is law, who kills and pardons at his pleas- 
ure ; who not only raises a foreign slave to the head of 
his administration, but through his means makes all 
the Egyptians, except the priests, serfs of the crown. 
The Egyptian kings, on the contrary, were restrained 
by the laws, shared the public dislike of foreigners, 
and would have avoided the very policy Joseph fol- 
lowed, which would have weakened the attachment of 
their fellow-countrymen by the loosening of local ties 
and complete reducing to bondage of the population, 
although it would have greatly strengthened the pow- 
er of an alien sovereign. Pharaoh’s conduct towards 
Joseph’s family points to the same conclusion. He 
gladly invites the strangers, and gives them leave to 
dwell, not among the Egyptians, but in Goshen, where 
his own cattle seem to have been (Gen. xlvi, 34 ; xlvii, 
6). His acts indicate a fellow-feeling, and a desire to 
strengthen himself against the national party. Sec 
Joseph. 

The “new king,” “which knew not Joseph,” is gen- 
erally thought b}' those who hold with us as to the 
previous history, to have been an Egyptian, and head 
of the 18th dynasty. It seems at first sight extremely 
probable that the king who crushed, if he did not ex- 
pel the Shepherds, would be the first oppressor of the 
nation which they protected. Plausible as this theory 
appears, a close examination of the Biblical narrative 
seems to us to overthrow it. We read of the new king 
that — “he said unto his people, Behold, the people of 
the children of Israel [are] more and mightier than 
we : come on, let us deal wisely with them, lest they 
multiply, and it come to pass that, when there falleth 
out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and tight 
against us, and [so] get them up out of the land” 
(Exod. i, 9, 10). 1 lie Israelites are therefore more and 
stronger than the people of the oppressor; the oppress- 
or fears war in Egypt, and that the Israelites would 
join his enemies; he is not able at once to adopt open 
violence, and he therefore uses a subtle system to re- 
duce them by making them perform forced labor, and 
soon after takes the stronger measure of killing their 
male children. These conditions point to a divided 
country and a weak kingdom, and cannot, we think, 
apply to the time of the IStli and 19th dynasties. The 
whole narrative of subsequent events to the Exodus is 
consistent with this conclusion, to which 'the use of 
universal terms does not offer any real objection. 


When all Egypt is spoken of, it is not necessary either 
in Hebrew or in Egyptian that we should suppose the 
entire country to be strictly intended. If we con- 
clude, therefore, that the Exodus most probabl} 1 - oc- 
curred before the 18th dynasty, we have to ascertain, 
if possible, whether the Pharaohs of the oppression ap- 
pear to have been Egyptians or Shepherds. The 
change of policy is in favor of their having been Egyp- 
tians, but is by no means conclusive, for there is no 
reason that all the foreigners should have had the 
same feeling towards the Israelites, and we have al- 
ready seen that the Egyptian Pharaohs and their sub- 
jects seem in general to have been friendly to them 
throughout their history, and that the Egyptians were 
privileged by the law, apparently on this account. It 
may be questioned whether the friendship of the two 
nations, even if merely a matter of policy, would have 
been as enduring as we know it to have been, had the 
Egyptians looked back on their conduct towards the 
Israelites as productive of great national calamities, or 
had the Israelites looked back upon the persecution as 
the work of the Egyptians. If the chronology be cor- 
rect, we can only decide in favor of the Shepherds. 
During the time to which the events are assigned 
there were no important lines but the Theban, and one 
or more of Shepherds. Lower Egypt, and especially 
its eastern part, must have been in the hands of the 
latter. The land of Goshen was in the eastern part 
of Lower Egypt : it was wholly under the control of 
the oppressors, whose capital or royal residence, at 
least in the case of the Pharaoh of the Exodus, lay 
very near to it. Manetho, according to the transcript 
of Africanus, speaks of three Shepherd dynasties, the 
15th, 16th, and 17th, the last of which, according to 
the present text, was of Shepherds and Thebans, but 
this is probably incorrect, and the dynasty should rath- 
er be considered as of Shepherds alone. It is difficult 
to choose between these three: a passage in Isaiah, 
however, which has been strangely overlooked, seems 
to afford an indication which narrows the choice. 
“My people went down aforetime into Egypt to so- 
journ there, and the Assyrian oppressed them without 
cause” (lii,4). This indicates that the oppressor was 
an Assyrian, and therefore not of the 15th dynasty, 
which, according to Manetho, in the epitomes, was of 
Phoenicians, and opposed to the Assyrians (Josephus, 
Apion, i, 14). Among the names of kings of this pe- 
riod in the royal Turin papyrus (ed. Wilkinson) are 
two which appear to be Assyrian, so that we may rea- 
sonably suppose that some of the foreign rulers were 
of that race. Their exact date, however, is undecided. 
It cannot be objected to the explanation we have of- 
fered that the title Pharaoh is applied to the kings 
connected with the Israelites, and that they must 
therefore have been natives, for it is almost certain 
that at least some of the Shepherd kings were Eg}p- 
tianized, like Joseph, who received an Egyptian name, 
and Moses, who was supposed by the daughters of 
Jethro to be an Egyptian (Exod. ii, 19). It has been 
urged by the opponents of the chronological schemes 
that place the Exodus before the later part of the 
fourteenth century B.C., that the conquests of the 
Pharaohs of the 18th, 19th, and 20th dynasties would 
have involved collisions with the Israelites had they 
been in those times already established in Palestine, 
whereas neither the Bible nor the monuments of Egypt 
indicate any such event. It has been overlooked by 
the advocates of the Rabbinical date of the Exodus 
that the absence of any positive Palestinian names, 
except that of the Philistines, in the lists of peoples 
and places subject to these Pharaohs, and in the rec- 
ords of their wars, entirely destroys their argument ; 
for while it shows that they did not conquer Palestine, 
it makes it impossible for us to decide on Eg}-ptian 
evidence whether the Hebrews were then in that coun- 
try or not. Shishak’s list, on the contrary, presents 
several well-known names of towns in Palestine, be* 


EGYPT 


99 


EGYPT 


sides that of the kingdom of Judah. The policy of 
the Pharaohs, as previously explained, is the key to 
their conduct towards the Israelites. At the same 
time, the character of the portions of the Bible relating 
to this period prevents our being sure that the Egyp- 
tians may not have passed through the country, and 
even put the Israelites to tribute. It is illustrative 
of the whole question under consideration that, in the 
most flourishing days of the sole kingdom of Israel, a 
Pharaoh should have marched unopposed into Pales- 
tine and captured the Canaanitish city Gezer, at no 
great distance from Jerusalem, and that this should be 
merely incidentally mentioned at a later time instead 
of being noticed in the regular course of the narrative 
(1 Kings ix, 15, 10). See Exode. 

4. Definite Period . — With the 18th dynasty, about 
B.C. 1520, a new and clearer epoch of Egyptian histo- 
ry begins, both as regards the numerous materials for 
reconstructing it, and also its great importance. In 
fact, the history of the 18th, 19th, and 20th dynasties 
is that of the Egyptian empire. Amosis, or Ahmes, 
the head of the hist of these, overthrew the power of 
the Shepherds, and probably expelled them. No 
great monuments remain of the first king, but from 
various inscriptions we are warranted in supposing 
that he was a powerful king. During his reign we 
first find mention of the horse, and, as it is often called 
by the Shemitic name sus, it seems probable that it 
was introduced from Asia, and possibly by the Shep- 
herd kings. If so, they may have been indebted to 
the strength of their cavalry for their easy conquest 
of Egypt. It is certain that, while other animals are 
frequently depicted on the monuments, neither in the 
tombs near the pyramids, nor at Beni - Ilassan, is 
there any appearance of the horse, and yet, subse- 
quently, Egypt became the great depot for these ani- 
mals, insomuch that in the time of Solomon they 
were regularly imported for him^ and for “all the 
kings of the Ilittites, and for the kriigs of Syria and 
when Israel was invaded by Sennacherib, it was on 
Eg}q>t that they were said to put their trust for char- 
iots and for horsemen. Amenoph I, the next king 
(B.C. cir. 1498), was sufficiently powerful to make 
conquests in Ethiopia and in Asia. In his time we 
find that the Egyptians had adopted the five interca- 
lary days, as well as the twelve hours of day and night. 
True arches, not “arches of approaching stones,” also 
are found at Thebes, bearing his name on the bricks, 
and were in common use in his time. See Aroii, 
Some of the more ancient chambers in the temple of 
Amen-ra, or El-Karnak, at Thebes, were built by him. 
In the reign of his successor, Thothmes I (B.C. cir. 
1478), the arms of Egypt were carried into Mesopota- 
mia, or the land of “Naharayn by some Naharayn 
is identified with the ISTairi, a people south-west of 
Armenia. Libya also was subject to his sway. A 
monument of his reign is still remaining in one of the 
two obelisks of red granite which he set up at El-Kar- 
nak, or Thebes. The name of Thothmes II (B.C. cir. 
1470) is found as far south as Napata, or Gebel Berkel, 
in Ethiopia. With him and his successor was associa- 
ted a queen, Amense or Amen-numt, who seems to 
have received more honor than either. She is thought 
to have been a Semiramis, that name, like Sesostris, 
probably designating more than one individual. Queen 
Amen-nemt and Thothmes II and III are the earliest 
sovereigns of whom great monuments remain in the 
temple of El-Karnak, the chief sanctuary of Thebes. 
Thothmes III (B.C. cir. 14G3) was one of the most re- 
markable of the Pharaohs. He carried his arms as 
far as Nineveh, and reduced perhaps Babylon also to 
his sway, receiving a large tribute from Asiatic na- 
tions over whom he had triumphed. This was a com- 
mon mode of acknowledging the supremacy of a con- 
queror, and by no means implied that the territory 
was surrendered to him ; on the contrary, he may only 
have defeated the army of the nation, and that beyond 


its own frontier. The Punt , a people of Arabia, the 
Shuplia , supposed to be of Cyprus, and the Rutcn, a 
people of the Euphrates or Tigris, thus confessed the 
power of Thothmes ; and the monuments at Thebes 
are rich in delineations of the elephants and bears, 
camelopards and asses, the ebony, ivory, gold, and sil- 
1 ver which they brought for tribute. Very beautiful 
specimens of ancient Egyptian painting belong to the 
time of this king; indeed his reign, with that of 
Thothmes II preceding it, and those of Amenoph II 
(B.C. cir. 1416), Thothmes IV (whose name is borne 
i by the sphinx at the pyramids), and Amenoph III fol- 
lowing it, may be considered as comprising the best 
period of Egyptian art; all the earlier time showing a 
gradual improvement, and all the later a gradual de- 
clension. In the reign of Thothmes IV (B.C. cir. 
1410), according to Manetho, the Shepherds took their 
final departure. The conquests of Amenoph III (B.C. 
cir. 1403) were also very extensive ; traces of his pow- 
er are found in various parts of Ethiopia ; he states on 
scarabiei, struck apparently to commemorate his mar- 
riage, that his northern boundary was in Mesopota- 
mia, his southern in Kara (C-holoe?). From his fea- 
tures, he seems to have been partly of Ethiopian ori- 
I gin. His long reign of nearly forty years was marked 
| by the construction of magnificent temples. Of these, 
the greatest were two at Thebes; one on the west 
bank, of which little remains but the two great colossi 
that stood on each side of the approach to it, and one 
of which is known as the vocal Memnon. He like- 
wise built, on the opposite bank, the great temple, now 
called that of El-Uksor, which Bameses 1 1 afterwards 
much enlarged. The tomb of this king yet remains at 
Thebes. For a period of about thirty’- years after the 
reign of Amenoph III, Egypt was disturbed by the 
rule of stranger kings, who abandoned the national re- 
ligion, and introduced a pure sun-worship. It is not 
known from whence they came, but they were regard- 
ed by the Egyptians as usurpers, and the monuments 
of them are defaced or ruined by those who overthrew 
them. Sir G. Wilkinson supposes that Amenoph III 
may have belonged to their race ; but, if so, we must 
date the commencement of their rule from the end of 
| his reign, as then began that change of the state re- 
ligion which was the great peculiarity of the foreign 
domination. How or when the sun-worshippers were 
j destroyed or expelled from Egypt does not appear. 
Homs, or Harem-lieb, who succeeded them (B.C. cir. 
13G7), was probably the prince by whom they were 
overthrown. He was a son of Amenoph III, and con- 
tinued the line of Diospolite sovereigns. The records 
of his reign are not important ; but the sculptures at 
Silsilis commemorate a successful expedition against 
the negroes. Horus was indirectly succeeded by Ra- 
meses I, with whom substantially commences the 19th 
dynasty, about B.C. 1324. His tomb at Thebes marks 
the new dynasty, by being in a different locality from 
that of Amenoph II T, and being the first in the valley 
thenceforward set apart as the cemetery of the Theban 
kings. After a short and unimportant reign, he was 
succeeded by his son Sethi I, or Sethos (B.C. 1322). 
lie is known by the magnificent hypostyle hall in the 
great temple of El-Karnak, which he built, and on the 
outside of the north wall of which are sculptured the 
achievements of his arms. His tomb, cruelly defaced 
by travellers, is the most beautiful in the Valley of 
the Kings, and shows that his reign must have been a 
long one, as the sepulchre of an Egyptian king was 
commenced about the time of his accession, and thus 
indicated the length of his reign. He conquered the 
Kheta , or Hittites, and took their stronghold Ketesh, 
variously held to be at or near Emesa, on or near the 
Orontes, or Ivadesh, or even Ashtaroth. His son Ra- 
meses 1 1, who was probably for some time associated 
with him in the throne, became the most illustrious 
of the ancient kings of Egypt (B.C. cir. 1307). If he 
did not exceed all others in foreign conquests, he 


EGYPT 


100 


EGYPT 


far outshone them in the grandeur and beauty of the I 
temples with which he adorned Egypt and Nubia. 
His chief campaign, as recorded on his numerous 
monuments, was against tiie Klieta or llittitcs, and a 
great confederacy they had formed. He defeated ! 
their army, captured Ketesh, and forced them to con- 
clude a treaty with him, though this last object does | 
not seem to have been immediately attained. It is he 
who is generally intended by the Sesostris of classic 
writers. He built the temple which is erroneously 
called the Memnonium, but properly the Eameseum 
of El-Kurneh, on the western bank of the Nile, one of 
the most beautiful of Egyptian monuments, and a 
great part of that of El-Uksor, on the opposite bank, 
as well as additions to that of El-Karnak. Through- 
out Egypt and Nubia are similar memorials of the 
power of Raineses II, one of the most remarkable of 
which is the great rock-tcmple of Abu-Simbel, not far ] 
north of the second cataract. The temple of Ptah, at 
Memphis, was also adorned by this Pharaoh, and its I 
site is chiefly marked by a very beautiful colossal 1 
statue of him, fallen on its face and partly mutilated 
through modern vandalism. He was succeeded by his I 
son Meneptnh, who is supposed by the advocates of the 
Rabbinical date of the Exodus to have been the Pha- 
raoh in whose time the Israelites went out. The mon- 
uments tell us little of him or of his successor, which 
latter was followed by his son Raineses III, perhaps 
the head of the 2()th dynasty (B.C. cir. 1200). With 
this sovereign the glories of the Theban line revived, 
and a scries of great victories by land and sea raised 
Egypt to the place which it had held under Raineses 
II. He built the temple of Medinet-Habu, on the 
western bank at Thebes, the walls of which are cov- 
ered with scenes representing his exploits. The most 
remarkable of the sculptures commemorating them 
represents a naval victory in the Mediterranean, gain- 
ed by the Egyptian licet over that of the Tohkari . , 
probably the Carians, and Shairetana (Khairetana), 
or Cretans. Other Shairetana, whom Mr. Poole takes 
to correspond to the Cherethim of Scripture, served in 
the Egyptian forces. This king also subdued the Pe - 
lesatu, or Philistines, and the R<bu (Lcbu), or Lubim, 
to the west of Egypt. Several kinL r s bearing the name 
of Raineses succeeded Rameses II, but their tombs 
alone remain. Under them the power of Egypt evi- 
dently declined, and towards the close of the dynasty 
the country seems to have fallen into anarchy, the 
high-priests of Amen having usurped regal power at 
Thebes, and a Lower Egyptian dynasty, the 21st, arisen 
at Tanis. Of these, however, but few records lemain. 

With the succeeding dynasty occurs the first defi- 
nite point of connection between tiie monumental and 
the scriptural history of Egypt. The ill feelings 
which the peculiar circumstances connected with the 
exode from Egypt had occasioned served to keep the 
Israelites and the Egyptians strangers, if not enemies, 
one to another during the lapse of centuries, till the 
days of David and Solomon, when (1 Kings iii, vii, 
ix, xi) friendly relations again spring up between the 
two countries. Solomon marries the daughter of 
Pharaoh, who burns the city of Gezer, and who, in , 
consequence, must have been master of Lower Egypt I 
(B.C. cir. 1010). “And Solomon had horses brought 
out of Egypt, and linen yarn six hundred shekels 
was the price of a chariot, and one hundred and fifty 
the price of a horse. Probably the Egyptian princess 
who became Solomon's wife was a daughter of a king 
of the Tanite dynasty. It was during the reign of a 
king of this age that “ lladad, being yet a little child, ” 
fled from the slaughter of the Edomites by David, and 
took refuge, together with “certain Edomites of his 
father's servants,” at the court of Pharaoh, who “ gave 
him to wife the sister of bis own wife, the sister of 
Tahpenes the queen” (1 Kings xi, 17-19), B.C. cir. 
1040-1000. The 22d dynasty was of Bnhastite kings ; 
the name of one of them has been found among the 


sculptured remains of the temples of Btibastis ; they 
were probably not of unmixed Egyptian origin, and 
may have been partly of Assyrian or Babylonian race. 
The first king was Slieshonk I (B.C. cir. 090), the con- 
temporary of Solomon, and in liis reign it was that 
“Jeroboam arose and tied into Egypt unto Shishak, 
king of Egypt, and was in Egypt until the death of 
Solomon” (1 Kings xi, 40), B.C. 973. In the oth year 
of Rehoboam, B.C. 9G9, Slieshonk invaded Judiea with 
an army of which it is said “the people were without 
number that came with him out of Egypt, the Lubims, 
the Sukkiims, and the Ethiopians and that, having 
taken the “fenced cities” of Judah, lie “came up 
against Jerusalem, and took away the treasures of the 
house of the Lord, and the treasures of the king’s 
house,” and “the shields of gold which Solomon had 
made” (2 Chron. xii). “The record of this cam- 
paign,” says Sir G. "Wilkinson, “which still remains 
on the outside of the south wall of the great temple of 
Karnak, bears an additional interest from the name of 
Yuda-Melchi (kingdom of Judah), first discovered by 
Champollion in the long list of captured districts and 
towns put up by Slieshonk to commemorate his suc- 
cess.'* Perhaps it was by Jeroboam's advice that he 
thus attacked Judah. It is doubtful, however, wheth- 
er Jeroboam did not suffer hy the invasion as well as 
Rehoboam. See Shishak. The next king, Osorkon 
I, is supposed by seme to have been the Zcrah whom 
Asa defeated (2 Chron. xiv, 9); and in that view, as 
the army that Zerali led can only have been that of 
Egypt, his overthrow will explain the decline of the 
house of Sheslionk. According to others, Zerali was 
a king of Asiatic Ethiopia. See Zeraii. Of the other 
kings of this dynasty we know scarcely more than the 
names. It was followed by the 23d dynasty of Tanite 
kings, so called from Tunis, the Zoan of Scripture. 
The}' appear to have been of the same race as their 
predecessors. Boeehoris the "Wise, a Suite, celebrated 
as a lawgiver, was the only king of the 24th dynasty 
(B.C. cir. 734). He is said to have been burned alive 
by Sabaco the Ethiopian, the first king of the 25th or 
Ethiopian dynasty. Egypt therefore makes no figure 
in Asiatic history during the 23d and 24th dynasties; 
under the 25th it regained, in part at least, its ancient 
importance. This was a foreign line, the warlike 
sovereigns of which strove to the utmost to repel the 
onward stride of Assyria. It is not certain which of 
the Sahacos — Sliebake, or his successor Shebateke — 
corresponded to the So or Seva of the Bible, who made 
a treaty with Hosbea, which, as it involved a refusal 
of his tribute to Shalmaneser, caused the taking of 
i Samaria, and the captivity of the ten tribes. See So. 
1 lie last king of this dynasty was Tirhakah, or Teh- 
rak (B.C. GOO), who, probably while yet ruling over 
| Ethiopia or Upper Egypt only, advanced against Sen- 
nacherib to support Ilezekiab, king of Judah, B.C. 
713. It docs not appear whether he met the Assyrian 
army, but it seems certain that its miraculous destruc- 
tion occurred before, any engagement had been fought 
between the. rival forces. Perhaps Tirliakak availed 
himself of this opportunity to restore the supremacy 
of Egypt west of the Euphrates. See Tiiuiakaii. 
With him the 25th dynasty closed. It was succeeded 
by the 2Gtli, of Suite or native kings. The. first sover- 
eign of importance was Psanimetichus, or Psametik I 
(B.C. GGl), who, according to Herodotus, had previ- 
ously been one of a dodecarehy which had ruled 
Egypt. Rawlinson finds in Assyrian history traces 
of a dodecarehy before Psanimetichus. This portion 
of the history is obscure. Psammctiehus carried on a 
war in Palestine, and is said to have taken Ashdod, or 
Azotus, i. e., according to Wilkinson, Shedul, “the 
strong,” after a siege of twenty-nine years (Herod, ii, 
157 ; see Rawlinson in loc. ii, 204). It was probably 
held by an Assyrian garrison, for a Tartan, or gen- 
eral of the Assyrian king, had captured it apparently 
when garrisoned by Egyptians and Ethiopians in the 


EGYPT 


101 


EGY r PT 


preceding century (Isa. xx). Psammetielnis was sue- | 
ceeded by his soil Neku, the Pharaoh-Necho of Scrip- | 
ture, B.C. 610. In his first year he advanced to Pal- 
estine, marching along the sea-coast on his way to 
Carcliemish on the Euphrates, and was met by Josiah, 
king of Judah, whom he slew at Megiddo, P.C. COD. 
The remonstrance of the Egyptian king on this occa- 
sion is very illustrative of the policy of the Pharaohs 
in the East (2 Cliron. xxxv, 21), no less than in his 
lenient conduct after the defeat and death of the king 
of Judah. Neku was probably successful in his enter- 
prise, and on his return deposed Jehoahaz, the son of 
Josiali, and set up Jehoiakim in his stead. lie appar- 
ently wished by this expedition to strike a blow at the 
falling power of the Assyrians, whose capital was 
shortly after taken by the combined forces of the Bab- 
ylonians and Medes. The army, however, which was 
stationed on the Euphrates by Neku met with a signal 
disaster three years afterwards, being routed by Nebu- 
chadnezzar at Carcliemish (Jcr. xlvi, 2). The king 
of Babylon seems to have followed up his success, as 
we are told (2 Kings xxiv, 7) that “the king of Egypt 
came not again any more out of his land, for the king 
of Babylon had taken from the river of Egypt unto the 
river Euphrates all that pertained to the king of 
Egypt.” Neku either commenced a canal to connect 
the Nile and the Bed Sea, or else attempted to clear 
one previously cut by Baineses II ; in either ease the 
work was not completed. See Neciio. The second 
successor of Neku was the next sovereign of note, Bu- 
ahprah, or Vaphrah, called Pharaoh-Hophra in the 
Bible, and by Herodotus Apries. He took Gaza and 
Sidon, and defeated the king of Tyre in a sea-fight. 
He also worsted the Cyprians. Having thus restored 
the power of Egypt, he succored Zedekiali, king of Ju- 
dah, and when Jerusalem was besieged, obliged the 
Clmldieans to retire (Jer. xxxvii, 5, 7, 11). lie was 
so elated by these successes that he thought “ not even 
a god could overthrow him.” In Ezek. xxix, 3, he is 
thought to be called “the great dragon (i. e. croco- 
dile?) that lieth in the midst of his rivers, which hath 
said, My river is mine own, and I have made it for 
myself.” At last, however, Amosis, or Ahmes II. 
who had been crowned in a military revolt, took him 
prisoner and strangled him (B.C. 56D), so that the 
words of Jeremiah were fulfilled : “I will give Pha- 
raoh-Hophra, king of Egypt, into the hand of his ene- 
mies, and into the hand of them that seek his life” 
(Jer. xliv, 30). There seems little doubt that at the 
time of this rebellion, and probably in conjunction 
with the advance of Amosis, Eg} r pt was invaded and 
desolated by Nebuchadnezzar. See Hopiira. The 
remarkable prophecies, however, in Ezek. xxix-xxxi 
may refer for the most part to the invasion of Camby- 
ses, and also to the revolt of Inarus under Artaxerxes. 
Amosis, the successor of Apries, reigned nearly fifty 
years, and, taking advantage of the weakness and 
fall of Babylon, he somewhat restored the weight of 
Egypt in the East. But the new power of Persia was 
to prove even more terrible to his house than Baby- 
lon had been to the house of Psammetielnis. lie was 
succeeded by his son Psammenitus, held to he the Psa- 
metik III of the monuments, B.C. 525. Shortly after 
his accession this king was attacked by Cambyses, 
who took Pelusiuin, or “Sin, the strength of Egypt,” 
and Memphis, and subsequently put Psammenitus to 
death. — With Cambyses (B.C. 525) began the 27th 
dynasty of Persians, and Egypt became a Persian 
province, governed by a satrap. The conduct of Da- 
rius Hystaspis (B.C. 521) to the Egyptians was favor- 
able, and he caused the temples to be adorned with 
additional sculptures. The large temple in the Great 
Oasis was principally built by him, and in it is found 
his name, with the same honorary titles as the ancient j 
kings. Before the death of Darius, however, the 
Egyptians rebelled, but were again subdued by Xerxes 
(B.C. 485), who made his brother Achamienes governor 


of the country. Under Artaxerxes Longimanus they 
again revolted, as above referred to, and in the 10th 
year of Darius Nothus contrived to throw off the Per- 
sian yoke, when Amyrtseus the Suite became the sole 
king of the 28th dynasty (B.C. 414). After having 
ruled six years, he was succeeded by the first king of 
the 2Dth or Mendesian dynasty. Of the four kings 
comprising it little is known, and the dates are uncer- 
tain. It was followed by the last, or 30th dynasty of 
Sebennyte kings. The first of these was Nectanebo, 
or Nekt-har-lieb (B.C. 387), who successfully defend- 
ed his country against the Persians, had leisure to 
adorn the temples, and was probably the last Pharaoh 
who erected an obelisk. His son Teos, or Tachos, 
was the victim of a revolt, from which he took refuge 
in the Persian court, where he died, while his nephew 
Nectanebo II, or Nekt-neb, ascended the throne as 
the last native king of Egypt (B.C. 3G1). For some 
time he successfully opposed the Persians, but eventu- 
ally succumbed to Artaxerxes Ochus, about B.C. 343, 
when Egypt once more became a Persian province. 
“From that time till our own day,” says Mr. Poole, 
“a period of twenty-two centuries, no native ruler has 
sat on the throne of Egypt, in striking fulfilment of 
the prophecy, ‘ There shall he no more a prince of the 
land of Egypt’ (Ezek. xxx, 13).” 

Egypt was governed by a Persian satrap till Persia 
itself was conquered by Alexander the Great, B.C. 
332. When Alexander’s army occupied Memphis, 
the numerous Greeks who had settled in Lower Egypt, 
found themselves the ruling class. Egypt became at 
once a Greek kingdom, and Alexander showed his 
wisdom in the regulations by which he guarded the 
prejudices and religion of the Egyptians, who were 
henceforth to he treated as inferiors, and forbidden to 
carry arms, lie founded Alexandria as the Greek 
capital. On his death, his lieutenant Ptolemy made 
himself king of Egypt, being the first of a race of 
monarchs who governed for 300 years, and made it 
the second chief kingdom in the world, till it sunk un- 
der its own luxuries and vices and the rising power 
of Borne. The Ptolemies founded a large public li- 
brary and a museum of learned men. See Alexan- 
dria. 

After the time of the exile the Egyptian rtolcmies 
were for a long while (from B.C. 301 to about 180) 
masters of Palestine, and during this period Egypt be- 
came as of old a place of refuge to the Jews, to whom 
man} 1, favors and privileges were conceded. This shel- 
ter seems not to have been for ages withdrawn (Matt, 
ii, 13). Yet it cannot be said that the Jews were held 
in esteem by the Egyptians (Philo, c. Ajnon, ii, p. 521). 
Indeed, it was from an Egyptian, Manetlio (B.C. 300), 
that the most defamatory misrepresentations of Jewish 
history were given to the woild; and, in the days of 
Augustus, Clneremon took special pains to make the 
Jewish people appear despicable (Josephus, Apion , i, 
32 ; comp. Creuzer, Com. Ilerod. i, 270). See Ptolemy. 

In the reign of Ptolemy Philometor, Onias, whose 
father, the third high-priest of that name, had been 
murdered, fled into Egypt, and rose into high favor 
with the king and Cleopatra his queen. The high- 
priesthood of the Temple of Jerusalem, which belonged 
of right to his family, having passed from it to the 
family of the Maccabees, by the nomination of Jona- 
than to this office (B.C. 153), Onias used his influence 
with the court to procure the establishment of a tem- 
ple and ritual in Egypt which should detach the Jews 
who lived there from their connection with the Tem- 
ple at Jerusalem. The king complied with the re- 
quest. To reconcile the Egyptian Jews to a second 
temple, Onias alleged Isa. xix, 18, ID. He chose for 
the purpose a ruined temple of Bubastis, at Leontopo- 
lis, in the Heliopolitan nome, one hundred and fifty 
stadia from Memphis, which place he converted into a 
sort of miniature Jerusalem (Josephus, 1 Par, i, 1), erect- 
ing an altar in imitation of that in the Temple, and 


EGYPT 


102 


EGYPT 


constituting himself higli-priest. The king granted | 
a tract of land around the temple for the maintenance 
of the worship, and it remained in existence till de- 
stroyed by Vespasian (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 3; xx, 9; 
War, vii, 11). The district in which this temple stood 
appears to have been, after Alexandria, the chief seat 
of the Jews in Egypt, and which, from the name of its 
founder, was called 'Orion \iopci (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 
8; Helen's Pilgrim, p. 328). See Onias, City of. 

1 nder these Alexandrian kings the native Egyp- 
tians still continued building their grand and massive 
temples, nearly in the style of those built by the kings 
of Thebes and Sals. The temples in the island of 
Pliihe, in the Great Oasis, at Latopolis, at Ombos, at 
Demlera, and at Thebes, prove that the Ptolemies had 
not wholly crushed the zeal and energy of the Egyp- 
tians. An Egyptian phalanx had been formed, armed 
and disciplined like the Greeks. These soldiers re- 
belled unsuccessfully against Epiphanes, and then 
Thebes rebelled against Soter II, but was so crushed 
that it never again held rank among cities. But 
while the Alexandrians were keeping down the Egyp- 
tians, they were themselves sinking under the Bo- 
mans. Epiphanes asked for Boman help; his two 
sons appealed to the senate to settle their quarrels and 
guard the kingdom from Syrian invasion. Alexander 
II was placed on the throne b} r the Bomans, and Au- 
letes went to Borne to ask for help against his subjects. 
Lastly, the beautiful Cleopatra, the disgrace of her 
country and the lirebrand of the republic, maintained 
her power by surrendering her person, first to Julius 
Cresnr, and then to Mark Antony. On the defeat of 
[Mark Antony by Augustus, B.C. 30, Egypt became a 
province of Borne, and was governed by the emperors 
with jealous suspicion. It was still a Greek state, 
and Alexandria was the chief seat of Greek learning 
and science. Its library, which had been burned by 
Caisar's soldiers, had been replaced by that from Per- 
gamus. The Egyptians yet continued building tem- 
ples and covering them with hieroglyphics as of old ; 
l>ut on the spread of Christianity the old superstitions 
lost their sway, the animals were no longer worship- 
ped, and we find few hieroglvphical inscriptions after 
the reign of Commodus. On the division of the Ro- 
mon empire, A.D. 337, Eg} r pt fell to the lot of Con- 
stantinople. See Smith’s Diet, of Class. Geogr. s. v. 
*Egyptus. 

Ever since its first occupancy by the Bomans Egypt 
has ceased to be an independent state, and its history 
is incorporated with that of its different conquerors 
and possessors. In A.D. 018 it fell under the power 
of the Persians, but in 040 it was transferred to the 
Saracens by the victorious Amru, general of the caliph 
Omar, under whose successors it continued till about 
1171, when the Turcomans expelled the caliphs ; these 
again were in their turn expelled in 1250 by the Mam- 
elukes. The hitter raised to the throne one of their 
own chiefs with the title of sultan, and this new dy- 
nasty reigned over Egypt till 1517, when the [Mame- 
lukes were totally defeated, and the last of their sultans 
put to death by the Turkish sultan Selim. This prince 
established the government of Egypt in twenty-four 
beys, whose authority he subjected to a council of 
regency, supported by an immense standing army. 
The conqueror did not, however, entirely suppress the 
[Mameluke government, who continued to be ‘‘the pow- 
er behind the throne” until their massacre in 1811, 
which made the pacha virtually independent of the 
Sublime Porte. Great and rapid changes have taken 
place in this interesting country within the last fifty 
years. The campaign of the French army in 1800, , 
undertaken with a view to subdue Egypt, and so se- 
cure to the French an important share of the East In- 
dia trade, though it resulted unsuccessfully „ was at- 
tended with important consequences to the interests 
of science and learning. Mohammed Ali, the late 
viceroy, though a perfect despot, did much to elevate J 


his dominions to a rank with civilized nations in arts, 
commerce, and industry. The works of internal im- 
provement which he undertook, the extensive manu- 
factories he established, and the encouragement he 
gave to literary institutions, have done much to change 
the political, if not the moral aspect of Egypt. His 
successors have carried out his enlightened views hv 
establishing railroads and opening out canals, which, 
while they increase the commerce of the country, 
greatly facilitate communication with India by what 
is called the overland route — by the Mediterranean, 
Egypt, and the Bed Sea, to Bombay. See M‘Cul- 
loch’s Gazetteer , s. v. 

For the history of Christianity in Egypt, see Egypt, 
Christian. 

XXII. Monumental Localities . — Of the towns on the 
northern coast the most western is Alexandria or EI- 
Iskenderiveh, founded B.C. 332 by Alexander the 
Great, who gave it the form of a [Macedonian chlomvs 
or mantle. Proceeding eastward, the first place of im- 
portance is Er-Bashid, or Bosetta. on the west bank of 
the branch of the Nile named after this town. In as- 
1 cending the Bosetta branch the first spot of interest, is 
the site of the ancient Sai's, on the eastern bank, mark- 
ed by lofty mounds and the remains of massive walls 
of crude brick. It was one of the oldest cities of 
, Egypt, and gave its name to the kings of the 26th dy- 
nasty. The goddess Neith, supposed to be the origin 
of Athene, was the local divinity, and in her honor an 
annual festival was held at Sal's, to which pilgrims re- 
sorted from all parts of Egypt. On the eastern side 
of the other branch of the Nile, to which it gives its 
name, stands the town Dim vat, or Damictta, a strong 
place in the time of the Crusades, and tlien regarded 
I as the key of Egypt. It has now about 28,000 inhab- 
itants. To the eastward of Damietta is the site of 
Pelusium, the Sin of Scripture, and the ancient key of 
Egypt, towards Palestine. No important remains have 
been found here. Between this site and the Damietta 
branch are the mounds of Tanis, or Zoan, the famous 
| Avaris of the Shepherds, with considerable remains of 
j the great temple, of which the most remarkable are 
several fallen obelisks, some of them broken. This 
temple was as ancient as the time of the 12th dynasty, 
and was beautified by Baineses II. Tanis was on the 
i eastern bank of the Tanitic branch of the Nile, now 
I called the canal of El-Moi'z. A little south of the 
modern point of the Delta, on the eastern bank of t lie 
river, is the site of the ancient Heliopolis, or On, mark- 
I ed by a solitary obelisk, and the ruins of a massive 
brick wall. The obelisk bears the name of Osirtasen 
! I, the head of the 12th dynasty. At a short distance 
I south of Heliopolis stands the modern capital, Cairo, or 
j El-Kahireh. The ancient city of Memphis, founded 
by Menes, stood on the western bank of the Nile, 
about ten miles above Cairo. The kings and people 
who dwelt there chose the nearest part of the desert as 
their burial-place, and built tombs on its rocky edge 
or excavated them in its sides. The kings raised 
pyramids, round which their subjects were buried in 
smaller sepulchres. The site of Memphis is marked 
by mounds in the cultivated tract. A few blocks of 
stone and a fine colossus of Rameses II are all that re- 
mains of the great temple of Ptali, the local deity. 
See Memphis. 

There is not space here for a detailed account of the 
pyramids ; suffice it to say that the present perpendic- 
ular height of the great pyramid is 450 ft. 9 in., and 
its present base 746 fr. It is about 30 ft. lower than it 
was originally, much of the exterior having been worn 
oil' by age and man’s violence. Like all the other 
pyramids, it faces the cardinal points. The surface 
presents a series of great steps, though when first built 
it was cased, and smooth, and polished. The platform 
on the summit is about 32 ft. square. The pyramid is 
almost entirely solid, containing only a few chambers, 
so small as not to be worthy of consideration in ealeu- 


EGYPT 


103 


EGYPT 


lating its contents. It was built by Khufa (Cheops), 
or Sliufu (Supliis). The second pyramid stands at a 
short distance south-west of the great pyramid, and is 
not of much smaller dimensions. It is chiefly remark- 
able for a great part of its casing having been pre- 
served. It was built by Khafra or Shafra (Chephren), 
a king of the same period. The third pyramid is 
much smaller than either of the other two, though it is 
constructed in a more costly manner. It was built by 
Mycerinus or Mencheres, the fourth ruler of the 1th 
dynasty. Near the three pyramids are six smaller 
ones ; three of them are near the east side of the great 
pyramid, and three on the south side of the third pyr- 
amid. They are supposed to be the tombs of near 
relatives of the kings who founded the great pyramid. 
To the east of the second pyramid is the great sphinx, 
188 feet in length, hewn out of a natural eminence in 
the solid rock, some defects of which are supplied by a 
partial stone casing, the legs being likewise added. 
See Pyramids. 

In the tract between the pyramids of Sakkarah and 
Abu-Sir are the remains of theSerapeuin, and the burial- 
place of the bulls Apis, both discovered by 31. 3Iariette. 
They are inclosed by a great wall, having been con- 
nected, for the Serapeum was the temple of Apis. The 
tomb is a great subterranean gallery, whence smaller 
passages branch off, and contains many sarcophagi in 
which the bulls were entombed. Serapis was a form 
of Osiris, his name being Osir-hapi, or Osiris Apis. In 
ascending the river we arrive at the ancient Ahnas, 
supposed by some to be the llanes of Isaiah, and about 
sixty miles above Cairo, at Beni-Suweif, the port of 
the province of the Feyum. In this province are 
supposed to be the remains of the famous Labyrinth 
of Moeris, probably Amen-em-ha III, and not far off, 
also, may be traced the site of the Lake Mceris, near 
the ancient Arsinoe, or Crocodilopolis, now represented 
by Medinct el-Keyiim. The next objects of peculiar 
inte.est arc the grottoes of Beni-Hassan, which are 
monuments of the l*2th dynasty, dating about B.C. 
2001). Here are found two columns of an order which 
is believed to be the prototype of the Doric. On the 
walls of the tombs are depicted scenes of hunting, 
fishing, agriculture, etc. There is also an interesting 
representation of the arrival of certain foreigne s, sup- j 
posed to be Joseph's brethren — at least illustrative of 
their arrival. In the town of Asyut, higher up the riv- 
er, is seen the representative of the ancient Lycopolis. 
It was an important place 3500 years ago, and has thus 
outlived Thebes and Memphis, Tunis and Pelusium. 


Further on, a few miles south-west of Girga, on the 
border of the Libyan desert, is the site of the sacred 
city of Abydus, a reputed burial-place of Osiris, near 
which, also, must have been situated the very ancient 
city of This, which gave its name to the 1st and 2d dy- 
nasties. About forty miles from Abydus, though near- 
ly in the same latitude, is the village of Denderah, fa- 
mous for the remains of the temple of Athor, the Egyp- 
tian Venus, who presided over the town of Tentyra. the 
capital of the Teutyrite notne. This temple dates from 
the time of the earlier Cicsars, and the names of the last 
Cleopatra, and Cnesarion her son, are found in it. See 
Denderah. 

About twenty miles still higher up the Nile than 
Denderah, and on the western bank, are the ruins 
of Thebes, the No-Amon of the Bible. In the hiero- 
glyphic inscriptions the name of this place is written 
AP-T, or with the article prefixed T-AP, and AMEN- 
TIA, the abode of Amen. The Copts write the for- 
mer name Tape, which becomes in the Memphitic dia- 
lect Thaba , and thus explains the origin of the Greek 
Qijfiai. The time of its foundation is unknown, but 
remains have been found which are ascribed to the 
close of the 11th dynasty, and it probably dates from 
the commencement of that first Diospolita line of 
kings. Under the 18th and two following dynasties 
it attained its highest prosperity, and to this period its 
greatest monuments belong. The following is a de- 
scription of this celebrated locality by 31 r. Poole : 
“The monuments of Thebes, exclusive of its sepul- 
chral grottoes, occupy a space on both sides of the riv- 
er, of which the extreme length from north to south 
is about two miles, and the extreme breadth from east 
to west about four. The city was on the eastern bank, 
where is the great temple, or, rather, collection of 
temples, called after El-Karnak, a modern village 
near by. The temple of El-Karnak is about half a 
mile from the river, in a cultivated tract. 3Iore than 
a mile to the south-west is the temple of El-Uksur, on 
the bank of the Nile. On the western bank was the 
suburb bearing the name 31emnonia. The desert near 
the northernmost of the temples on this side almost 
reaches the river, but soon recedes, leaving a fertile 
plain generally more than a mile in breadth. Along 
the edge of the desert, besides the small temple just 
mentioned as the northernmost, are the Kameseum of 
El-Kurneh, and that of 3Iedinct-IIabu less than a mile 
farther to the south-west, and between them, but with- 
in the cultivated land, the remains of the Anienophi- 
um, with its two gigantic seated colossi. Behind thesa 



Restoration of the Propylon , or Gale of the Temple of El-L ksur, or Luxor. 


EGYPT 


104 


EGYPT 


edifices rises the mountain, which here attains a height 
of about 1200 feet. It gradually recedes in a south- 
westerly direction, and is separated from the cultiva- 
ted tract by a strip of desert in which are numerous 
tombs, partly excavated in two isolated hills, and two 
small temples. A tortuous valley, which commences 
not far from the northernmost of the temples on this 
bank, leads to those valleys in which are excavated 
the wonderful tombs of the kings, near the highest part 
of the mountain, which towers above them in bold and 
picturesque forms” ( Enci/clop . Britannica , art. Egypt, 
p. 500). At the entrance to the temple of El-Uksur 
stood two very tine obelisks of red granite, one of which 
is now in the centre of the Place de la Concorde, at 
Paris. There is also a portal with wings 200 feet in 
width, covered with sculptures of the highest inter- 
est, illustrating the time of Rameses II. Within is a 
magnificent avenue of 14 columns, having capitals of 
the bell-shaped flowers of the papyrus. They are GO 
feet high, and elegantly sculptured. These are of the 
time of Amenoph III. — On a south portal of the great 
temple of El-Karnak is a list of countries subdued by 
Sheshonk I, or Shisliak, the head of the 22d dynasty. 
Among the names is that of the kingdom of Judah, as 
before mentioned. The great hvpostyle hall in this 
temple is the most magnificent work of this class in 
Egypt. Its length is 170 feet, its width S29; it is 
supported by 134 columns, the loftiest of which are 
nearly 70 feet in height and about 12 in diameter, and 
the rest more than 40 feet in height and about 9 in di- 
ameter. The great columns, 12 in number, form an 
avenue through the midst of the court from the en- 
trance, and the others are arranged in rows very near 
together on each side. Theie is a t ansverse avenue 
made by two rows of the smaller columns being placed 
further apart than the rest. This great hall is there- 
fore crowded with columns, and the effect is surpass- 
ingly grand. The forest of pillars seems intermina- 
ble in whatever direction one looks, producing a result 
unequalled in any other Egyptian temple. This great 
hall was the work of Sethi I, the head of the 19th 
dynasty, who came to the throne 13. C. cir. 1340, and it 
was sculptured partly in his reign and partly in that 
of his son and successor Rameses II. — The Rameseum 
remains to be briefly noticed. This temple on the 
edge of the desert is perhaps the most beautiful ruin 
in Egypt, as Karnak is the grandest. It also records 
the glories of Rameses II, of whom there is in one of 
its courts a colossal statue hewn out of a single block 
of red granite, supposed to weigh nearly 900 tons, 
and transported thither from the quarries of Svene. 
This temple is also noted for containing the celebrated 
astronomical ceiling, one of the most precious records 
of ancient Egyp tian science. Not the least interesting 
among the monuments of Thebes are the tombs of the 
kings. The sepulchres are 20 or 21 in number. Nine- 
teen are sculptured, and are the mausolea of kings, of a 
queen with her consort, and of a prince, all of the 18th, 
19th, and 20th dynasties. The paintings and sculp- 
tures are almost wholly of a religions character, refer- 
ring chiefly to a future state. Standing on the resting- 
places of kings and warriors who figured in the history 
of Egypt while the world was yet young, and long be- 
fore the age of others whom we are accustomed to con- 
sider heroes of antiquity, it seems as though death it- 
self were immortalized ; and proudly indeed may those 
ancient Pharaohs, who labored so earnestly to preserve 
their memory on earth, look down upon the paltry ef- 
forts of later aspirants, and their slender claims to he 
regarded as either ancient or immortal. See Thebes. 

About twenty miles further south of the site of 
Thebes is the village of Edfu, representing the town 
called by the Greeks Apollinopolis Magna, where is 
still found in a comparatively perfect state a temple 
of the Ptolemaic period. See Temple. Above Edfu, 
at Jebel es-Silsileh, the mountains on either side, 
which have for some time confined the vallev to a 


narrow space, reach the river, and contract its course ; 
and higher still, about thirty miles, is the town of As- 
wan, which represents the ancient Sycne, and stands 
among the palm-trees on the eastern bank, opposite to 
the island of Elephantine. The bed of the river above 
this place is obstructed by numerous rocks and islands 
of granite, which form the rapids called the first cata- 
ract. During the inundation boats are enabled by a 
I strong northerly wind to pass this cataract without 
aid, and, in fact, at other times the principal rapid has 
only a fall of five or six feet, and that not perpendicu- 
lar. The roaring of the troubled stream, and the red 
granite islands and rocks which stud its surface, give 
the approach a wild picturesqueness till we reach the 
open stream, less than two miles further, and the beau- 
tiful island of Finite suddenly rises before our eyes, 
completely realizing one’s highest idea of a sacred 
place of ancient Egypt. It is very small, only a quar- 
ter of a mile long and 500 feet broad, and contains 
monuments of the time of the Ptolemies. In the des- 
ert west of the Nile are situate the great and little 
waits (oases), and the valley of the Natron lakes, con- 
taining four Coptic monasteries, the remains of the 
famous anchorite settlement of Nitria, recently noted 
for the discovery of various Syrian MSS. In the east- 
ern desert the chief town of importance is Es-Suweis, 
or Suez, the ancient Arsinoe, which gives its name to 
the western gulf of the Red Sea. 

XXIII. Prophecies . — It would not he within the 
province of this article to enter upon a general con- 
I sideration of the prophecies relating to Egypt ; we 
must, however, draw the reader’s attention to their 
remarkable fulfilment. The visitor to the country 
needs not to be reminded of them ; everywhere he is 
struck by the precision with which they have come 
to pass. We have already spoken of the physical 
changes which have verified to the letter the words 
of Isaiah. In like manner we recognise, for instance, 
in the singular disappearance of the city of Memphis 
I and its temples in a country where several primeval 
towns yet stand, and scarce any ancient site is un- 
marked by temples, the fulfilment of the words of Jer- 
emiah : lm Noph shall he waste and desolate without an 
, inhabitant” (xlvi, 19), and those of Ezekiel, “Thus 
snith the Lord God, I will also destroy the idols, and 
I will cause [their] Images to cease out of Noph” 
(xxx, 13). 

The principal passages relating to Egypt are as fol- 
lows : Isa. xix ; Jer. xliii, 8-13; xliv, 30; xlvi ; Ezck. 
xxix-xxxii, inclusive. In the course of what has 
been said, several allusions have been made to portions 
of these prophecies ; and it may here be observed that 
the main reference in them seems to he to the period 
extending from the times of Nebuchadnezzar to those 
of the Persians, though it is not easy to elucidate them 
to any great extent from the history furnished by the 
monuments. Nebuchadnezzar appears to have in- 
vaded Egypt during the reign of A pries, and Sir G. 
Wilkinson thinks that the story of Amasis’s rebellion 
was invented or used to conceal the fact that Pharaoh- 
Ilophra was deposed by the Babylonians. Jt is not 
improbable that Amasis came to the throne by their 
intervention. The forty years’ desolation of Egypt 
(Ezek. xxix, 10) is a point of great difficulty, owing 
chiefly to the statements of Herodotus (ii, 161, 177) as 
to the unexampled prosperity of the reigns of Aprics 
and Amasis (B.C. 5*8-25), during which the period in 
question must have fallen. That the Greek historian, 
was misled by the accounts of the Egyptian priests, 
who wished to conceal the extent of the national hu- 
miliation by Nebuchadnezzar and Cambvscs, is made 
, evident by Browne (Ordo Saiclornm , p. 191 sq.), who 
thus arranges the events: “Soon after B.C. 572, 
Nebuchadnezzar invades Egypt, conquers Apries, and 
puts him to death, and carries off’ the spoil of Egypt, 

( together with its chief men, to some other part of his 
\ dominions : Amasis is appointed his viceroy. Cyrus, 


EGYPT 


105 


about B.C. 532, ‘turns the captivity of Egypt,’ as he 
had before done that of the Jews. On his death Ama- 
sis revolts, and Cambyses invades and fully subju- 
gates all Egypt, B.C. 525.” See Ezekiel. 

XXIV. Literature. — For a very full classified list of 
works on Egypt, see Jolowiez’s Bibliotheca sEgyptiaca 
(Lpz. 1858, 8vo), with the Supplement thereto (ib. 1861). 
The following are the most useful, excepting such as 
relate to the modern history. On Egypt generally : 
Description de V E'gypte (2d ed. Par. 1821-9) ; Encyclo- 
pedia Britannica (8th edit. art. Egypt). Description, 
Productions, and Topography: Abd-Allatif, Relation de 
V E'gypte (ed. Silvestrc de Saey, Par. 1810); D’Anville, 
Memoires sur l' E'gypte (Par. 1766); Belzoni, Xarrative 
of Operations (London, 1820) ; Brugseh, Geographische 
fnschriften d . alt-iigyptischen Denkmaler (Lpz. 1857) ; Id. 
Reiseberichte aus yEgypten (ib. 1855) ; Chainpollion le 
Jeune, V E'gypte sous les Pharaons (Par. 1814) ; Id. Let- 
tres ecrites pendant son Voyage en E'gypte (2d edit. Par. 
1833); Ehrenberg and Hemprich, Mat urge schichiliche 
Reise.n — Reisen in yEgypten , etc. (Lpz. 1828) ; Symbolce 
Physicce (ib. 1829-1845) ; Forskill, Descriptiones aninut - 
Hum, ete. (Hafn. 1775-6) ; Id. Flora yEyyptiuco-arabica 
(ib. 1775); Harris, Ilieroglyphical Standards (London, 
1852) ; Lilian t de Bellefonds, Memoire sur le lac de Mor- 
ris (Paris, 1843); Quatremere, Memoires Geographiques 
et Ilistoriques (Paris, 1811); Bussegger, Reisen (Lpz. 
1841-8) ; Vyse and Perring, Pyramids of Gizeh (Lond. 
1839-42); Perring, 5S Large Views, etc ., of the Pyra- 
mids of Gizeh (Lond. 1841) ; Wilkinson, Modern Egypt 
and Thebes (Lond. 1843); Id. Hand-book for Egypt (2d 
edit. Lond. 1858) ; Id. Survey of Thebes (plan) ; Id. on 
the Eastern Desert (in the Jour. Geogr. Soc. ii, 1832, p. 28 
sq.) ; Hartmann, Xalurgesch. der Xillander (Lpz. 1865) ; 
Kremer, yEgypten (modern, Lpz. 1863) ; Parthey, Erdk. 
des alten yEgyptens (ib. 1859); Pethorick, Egypt, etc. 
(Lond. 1861). Monuments and Inscriptions : Chain- 
pollion le Jeune, Monuments (Paris, 1829-47) ; Id. Xo- 
tices descriptiv e (ib. 1844); Gliddou, Lectures (X. Y. 
1843) ; Lepsius, Denkmliler (Lpz. 1819 sq.) ; Letronne, 
Recneil des inscriptions grecques tt latines d' E'gypte (Par. 
1842); Rosellini, Monumenti (Pisa, 1832—14); Duini- 
ehen, Altdgypt. InschriftenQn three series, Lpz. 1865-8); 
Brugseh, Recneil de Monuments E'gyptiens (Par. 1862- 
63); Leemans, 3 fonuments E'gyptiens (ib. 1866); Rhind, 
Thebes , etc. (Lond. 1862). Language : Brugseh, Gram- 
maire Demotique (Berl. 1855); Id. Hierog.-Demot. Wor- 
terb. (Berl. 1867) ; Id. Ztvei bilingue Papyri (ib. 1865) ; 
Birch, Dictionary of Hieroglyphics (in Bunsen, vol. v) ; 
Champollion le Jeune, Grammaire E’gyptienne (Paris, 
1836-41) ; Dictionnaire E'gypiien (ib. 1841) ; Eneyclop. 
Brit. (8th edit. art. Hieroglyphics) ; Parthey, Vocabula- 
rium Coptico-Latinum , etc. (Berl. 1844) ; Perron, 
matica I ngum Copticm (Turin, 1841); Id. Lexicon (ib. 
1835); Schwartze, Das Alte Aeyypten (Lpz. 1843). An- 
cient Chronology, History, and Manners : Bunsen, 
Egypt's Place (London, 1850-59): Cory, Ancient Frag- 
ments (2d edit. Lond. 1832) ; Herodotus (ed. Rawlinson, 
vols. i-iii, Lond. and N. Y. 1861) ; Hen gsten berg, Egypt 
and the Books of Moses (Lond. 1843) ; Ideler, Handbuch 
der Chronologic (Lpz. 1825) ; Lepsius, Chronologic der 
Aegypter (vol. i, Lpz. 1849); Id. Konigsbueh der alten 
Aegypter (ib. 1858); Poole, Horm yEgyptiacm (Lond. 
1851); Wilkinson, Manners and Customs of the Ancient 
Egyptians (ib. 1837, 1841); Id. Popular Account of the 
Ancient Egyptians (Lond. and N. Y. 1855); Kenriek, 
Egypt under the Pharaohs (Lond. and X. Y. 1852) ; Os- 
burn, Monumental History (Lond. 1851) ; Sharpe, Hist, 
of Egypt (Lond. 1846); Brugseh, Histoire de V E'gypte 
(Paris, 1859 sq.) ; Hincks, Years of the Egyptians (Lon- 
don, 1865) ; Lauth, Der Dynast. Manetho's (Leipzig, 
1SG5) ; Unger, Chronologic des Manetho (Berlin, 1867). 
Ancient Religion: Herodotus; Diodorus of Sicily ; Plu- 
tarch; Porphyry; Iambliehus, etc. ; Jablonski, Pan- 
theon mgypt. (Frankf. 1750-52, 3 vols.) ; Schmidt, De 
saeerdot. et sacrifeiis rEgyptinrum (Tiib. 1786); Hirt, 
U. d. Bildung d. dgyptischen Gottheiten (1821) ; Cham- 


EGYPT, CHRISTIAN 

pollion, Pantheon egyptien (Paris, 1832); Haymann, 
Darstellung d. A.-n. M. (Bonn, 1837); Roth, Die dg. 
u. Zoroastrische Glaubemlehre (Manli. 18-16) ; Beaure- 
gard, Les clivinites E’gyptiennes (Paris, 1866) ; Sharpe, 
Egyptian Mythology (Lond. 1S63) ; Lepsius, D. Todten- 
buch (Lpz. 1867); Rouge, Ritual des E'gyptiens (Paris, 
I860); Birch, The Funeral Ritual (in Bunsen, vol. v) ; 
Pley to, La Religion des Pre-Isrcieliies (Par. 1862). Mod- 
em I n habitants : Lane, Modern Egyptians (3d ed. 1860) ; 
Id. Thousand and One Mights (2d edit., by Poole, Lond. 
1859); Mrs. Poole, Englishwoman m Egypt (Lond. and 
X. Y. 1844). The periodicals of Great Britain, Franee, 
and Germany eontain many valuable papers on Egyp- 
tian history and antiquities, by Dr. Hincks, Mr. Birch, 
51. de Rouge, and others. There is a monthly Zdl - 
schrift , devoted exclusively to Egyptological scienee 
and information, edited by Lepsius, with the aid of 51. 
Brugseh, published at Berlin. 

EGYPT, Brook or River of. This is frequently 
mentioned as the southern limit of the Land of Prom- 
ise (Gen. xv, 18; 2 Chron. vii, 8; Xum. xxiv, 5; Josh, 
xv, 4). See Brook. Calmet is of opinion that this 
was the Xile, remarking that Joshua (xiii, 3) describes 
it by the name of Sihor, which is the true name of the 
Xile (Jer. ii, 18), “the muddy river;” and that Amos 
(vi, 14) ealls it the river of the wilderness, because the 
; eastern arm of the Xile adjoined Arabia, or the wilder- 
ness, in Hebrew Arabah , and watered the district by 
the Egyptians ealled Arabian. In answer to this, it 
is said that this stream was the limit of Jndsea toward 
Egypt, anti that the Sept. (Isa. xxvii, 12), “unto the 
river of Egypt,” render “to Rhinocorura," an inter- 
pretation which is adopted by Cellarius, Bochart, Wells, 
and others, although that is the name of a town cer- 
tainly not adjacent to the Xile. See Xile. Besides, 
it is extremely dubious whether the power of the He- 
brew nation extended at any time to the Xile, and, if 
it did, it was over a mere sandy desert. But, as this 
desert is unquestionably the natural boundary of the 
Syrian dominions, no reason can be given why the 
political boundary should exceed it. 5Iost geogra- 
phers, therefore, understand by “the River of Egypt” 
the modern Wady el-Aiish , which drains the middle 
of the Sinaitic desert ; a few, however, take it to be 
the brook Besor. between Gaza and Rhinoeorura. (See 
Josh, xv, 17.) See Egypt. 

EGYPT, Christian. — 1. Church History. The first 
seeds of Christianity were undoubtedly scattered in 
Egypt at the time of the apostles. According to some 
ancient historians, Peter founded the Church of Alex- 
andria and several other Egyptian churches. 5Iark 
the Evangelist is said by an old tradition, preserved by 
Eusebius ( Ecclcs . Hist, ii, 16), to have been “the first 
that was sent to Egypt, and first established church- 
es at the eity of Alexandria.” See Alexandria. 
The testimony of Eusebius, that the first Christians 
of Egypt followed a rigidly ascetie school, is very 
doubtful, because Pbilo, to whom he refers, docs not 
i speak of Christians, but of a Jewish sect, the Thera- 
peutic, and expressly mentions that they lived, not 
I in Alexandria, but on Lake 51ccris. From Lower 
I Egypt Christianity soon spread to Cyrene, Pentapolis, 
Libya, Central and Upper Egypt. There were at least 
twenty bishoprics in Egypt about the middle of the 
third 601111113% f° r that number of bishops were assem- 
bled at a council in 235. Five councils of Egyptian 
bishops were held before 311 ; a great many in the 
fourth and following centuries. As Egypt had been 
in the times before Christ the seat of philosophy and 
mystieism, so it now became one of the ehief seats of 
Christian literature. The Alexandrian school was the 
oldest of the higher class of institutions for Christian 
education. Jerome and others hold 5Iark the Evan- 
gelist to have been its founder, but the succession of 
catechists is differently stated. See Alexandrian 
School. Among the scientific men whom it gave to 


EGYPT, CHRISTIAN 100 EGY r PT, CHRISTIAN 


the Church were Clement , Athanasius, Origen , Cgril. 
Gnosticism found numerous adherents. Basilicles, 
Valentinus, Ileraclcon, Ptoleniaeus, Carpocrates, were 
Egyptians. The Ophites and Doketism sprang up 
there ; Sabellianism and Arianism were also products 
of Egypt. The influence of Egypt in the history of 
Monachism is equally marked ; Paehomius, Anthony, 
and man}* other celebrated hermits, greatly contrib- 
uted to the spreading of Monachism in the Christian 
Church. Monachism (q. v.), in fact, cannot be fully 
understood without a due appreciation of the Egyp- 
tian element. In the history of the constitution of 
the Christian Church Egypt has also had a consider- 
able influence. In no other country of the East were 
hierarchical tendencies so early developed, for the 
patriarch of Alexandria soon sought to obtain privi- 
leges which no other of the superior bishops enjoyed. 
The M on ophy sites, who subsequently received the 
name of Copts, became in Egypt the predominant 
Church, and gradually wrested nearly all the church- 
es from the orthodox Christians, who, as early as the 
end of the sixth century, were reduced to a very insig- 
nificant number. The patriarchal seat at Alexandria 
was occupied almost exclusively by Monophysite (Jac- 
obite) patriarchs, with the exception of Cosmas (elect- 
ed about 72G) and Eutychus (elected in 934). The or- 
thodox (Greek) Christians received from their oppo- 
nents the nickname Melchites (q. v.). In G15 Egypt 
was invaded by Chosroes, king of Persia, when few 
bishoprics were spared. The dominion of the Persians 
lasted only a few years, when the whole country, with 
the capital city of Alexandria, passed into the power 
of the Mohammedans in 635 (according to others in 
G40). Under them Christianity suffered incalculable 
injuries, and gradually declined so as to become a de- 
spised and oppressed sect. See Copts. Better pros- 
pects for Christianity did not open till the beginning 
of the 19th century, when Egypt, under the reign of 
the enlightened Mehemet Ali, was brought under the 
influence of European civilization. Since then the 
educated Egyptians have learned to appreciate the 
superiority of European nations, especially of England 
and France ; many young men of talent have been 
sent to European schools ; the native Christian popu- 
lation begins to rise from its degradation and despised 
condition ; the large cities, especially Alexandria and 
Cairo, are filling up with an intelligent and influen- 
tial population of foreign-born Christians; Christian 
schools, and other religious and charitable institutions, 
are multiplying; and the signs of the times seem to 
indicate that the prospects of Christianity are at pres- 
ent very bright. 

An attempt to establish a Protestant mission in 
Egypt was made by the Moravians in 17G9. A mis- 
sionary, Hocker, who previously had sought to open 
communication with the Abyssinian Church, but had 
been compelled to return to Europe in 1701, was in 
17G8 commissioned, together with a young man named 
Danke, a carpenter by trade, to return to Egypt, and 
await any opening that might present itself to pene- 
trate into Abyssinia. “ On March 5, 17G9, they reach- 
ed Cairo, Hooker earning a livelihood bv practising as 
a physician and Danke by working at bis trade. The 
latter soon learned to converse tolerably in Arabic, 
and when an assistant arrived for Ilocker in the per- 
ron of John Antes, a watchmaker, he set out on his 
first journey to the Copts, landing at Gizch, in Upper 
Egypt. The state of the country at this time was ex- 
ceedingly disturbed, tile Mameluke beys having re- 
volted against the Turkish government, and many of 
them being also at war with one another. Ilocker had 
been summoned to attend members of the household 
of Ali Bey ( for a time the first chief in Egypt), and 
Danke’s connection with the ‘English physician,’ as 
Ilocker was called, brought him into favor with the 
officers and soldiers at Gizch, who treated' him with 
the greatest kindness. He met a number of Copts in 


this city, with whom he formed a very intimate friend- 
ship. At first several of them invited him to visit 
their native city, Behncssc, the population of which 
was exclusively Coptic, but afterwards they endeav- 
ored to deter him by describing the danger to which 
he would expose himself. Danke, however, refused 
to listen to them, and, after bidding the Copts at Gir- 
zeh farewell, he set out Sept. 13th. Danke made in 
all three visits to the Copts at Behnesse. His labors 
were by many eagerly accepted, by others they were 
viewed with suspicion or openly opposed. His testi- 
mony for Jesus was not without encouraging effect, 
and many of the priests even became his firm support- 
ers, and begged him to remain amongst them. On 
his third visit he caught a severe cold, upon which 
followed an attack of malignant fever. Notwithstand- 
ing the most careful nursing on the part of the other 
brethren, the disease increased upon him, and on Oct. 
Gth, 1772, he died, aged only 38 years. By permission 
of the Greek patriarch, his body was interred in a 
vault of St. George’s church, in the Old City of Cairo. 
In May, 1775, George AVinigcr arrived as Danke’s 
successor. He proceeded to Behnesse, and labored 
faithfully in preaching the Gospel and instructing the 
people privately. Michael Baschara (the magistrate 
referred to above) remained faithful to his profession, 
and was an active and influential assistant. In 1780. 
three other brethren were sent from Herrnhut to re- 
inforce the mission, but it had become evident before 
their arrival that in the present state of the country it 
would be impossible to continue the work amongst the 
Copts, and that an effort to penetrate into Abyssinia 
would he useless. The brethren remained at their 
post until the Synod of 1782 resolved to discontinue 
the mission. Hocker, who had labored for its estab- 
lishment ever since the year 1752, died at Cairo in Au- 
gust, 1781” ( Moravian [newspaper], May 7, 1868). 

In 182G, the “Church Missionary Society” of Lon- 
don scut out some German missionaries to labor 
among the Copts. After spending some time in stud- 
ying the Arabic language, and distributing the Bible 
and religious tracts, the missionaries fixed the location 
of the mission at Cairo, where they had two schools, 
attended by Greek, Coptic, Armenian, Roman Catho- 
lic, and even pure Mohammedan children. In 1833 
a hoarding-school was commenced, designed for train- 
ing teachers and catechists. In 1834 a chapel was con- 
structed by subscriptions obtained on the spot. In 
1835 the mission was interrupted by a terrible visita- 
tion of tbe plague. In 1840 it was reported by the 
missionaries that in the different quarters of the town 
no less than six religious meetings had been establish- 
ed hv the native Copts for the purpose of reading the 
Scriptures; that the patriarch had sanctioned loth 
these meetings and a plan for the establishment of an 
institution in Egypt for the education of the Coptic 
clergy. In 1841, a pupil of the missionary school of 
Cairo was appointed by the patriarch Abuna, or head 
of the Abyssinian Church. Bishop Gobat, who visited 
Egypt in 1849, expressed in a letter dated Jan. 9,1850, 
the opinion that the plan on which this mission had 
been established, to seek the friendship of the higher 
clergy of the Eastern churches, and to induce them to 
reform their churches, had failed. The mission was 
subsequently abandoned. 

A mission established by the American Missionary 
Association has also been again abandoned. The most 
successful of any of the Protestant missions has 1 cen 
that undertaken by the United Presbyterian Chinch. 
It organized a number of congregations ar.d schools, 
and, through the liberality of the Maharajah Uhuleep 
Singh, who married a pupil of the mission school, it 
obtained a press, through which a large amount of 
useful reading has been scattered throughout the 
land. The growth of the Church was sufficiently 
encouraging to organize the churches into the Pres- 
byter}’' of Egypt, in connection with the General As- 


107 


EGYPTIAN VERSIONS 


EGYPT, CHRISTIAN 


sembly of the Church in the United States. A flour- 
ishing theological school has been established at Osi- 
oot, for which the Ilev. Mr. Hogg, in 18GG, raised in 
Great Britain about $2500. In 18G7 the patriarch of 
the Coptic Church manifested the fiercest hostility to 
the mission ; and obtaining, it is believed, at least the 
tacit consent and authority of the civil government, 
he instituted proceedings that at one time threatened 
the mission churches with great disaster. Finally, 
however, the Egyptian government, chiefly in conse- 
quence of the remonstrances of the English and Amer- 
ican consuls, stopped the persecution. The last an- 
nual report on this mission, made to the General As- 
sembly of the United Presbyterian Church in May, 
18G8, states that in nearly all the churches gratifying 
accessions have been made to the membership during 
the past year, and that during the persecution only 
four shrunk back, all of whom subsequently returned. 
The Presbytery have taken the proper steps for eacli 
native church to have a native pastor duly called, or- 
dained, and installed. The churches of Ghous and 
Cairo already have called native pastors, and taken 
steps for providing the necessary salaries. The Pres- 
bytery of Egypt, in 1SG7, also adopted strong resolu- 
tions against the slave-trade, which is still carried on 
in Egypt with the connivance of the government. 

2. Statistics . — The large majority of the inhabitants 
are Mohammedans. The theological school connect- 
ed with the mosque of Cairo is one of the most fre- 
quented schools of the Islam. All the elementary 
schools and higher institutions for the Mohammedan 
population are of a strictly religious character. Me- 
hemet Ali established several schools after the Euro- 
pean model, in which young Egyptians were to be 
educated, partly b}*- European teachers, for civil and 
military offices. Such schools were the medical school 
at Abu-Zabel, the cadet school at Gizeli, the marine 
school at Alexandria, the school of engineers at Clian- 
ka, the medical college of Casr-el-Ayin, the artillery 
school of Turrali, and the musical institute in the Cit- 
adel of Cairo. A special college for young Egyptians 
was also established in Paris. Several of these schools 
were, however, suppressed under the reign of Abbas 
Pasha. The most numerous body of Christians are 
the Copts, who have a patriarch, four metropolitans, 
and seven other bishops, and a population estimated 
from 150,000 to 250,000 souls. See Copts. The num- 
ber of United Copts, who recognise the authority of 
the Pope, is about 10,000. They have a vicar apos- 
tolic at Cairo, For the Latin Roman Catholics there 
is another vicar apostolic at Alexandria, who is at the 
same time delegate for the United Orientals of other 
rites than the Coptic. According to letters of Roman 
Catholic missionaries, Alexandria had, in 1853, 7020 
Latins, 600 United Copts, 240 Maronites, 350 Mel- 
chites (United Greeks), 50 Syrians, GO Armenians — to- 
gether 8320. The Roman Catholic population of Cai- 
ro at the same time consisted of 4148 Latins, 200 
Melchites, 800 Copts, 300 Maronites, 300 Armenians, 
200 Syrians, 100 Chaldees. Since then the Roman 
Catholic population of these two cities has undoubtedly 
largely increased in consequence of the rapid growth 
of the total population of the two cities ; but no later 
trustworthy statistics are known. There are Francis- 
can monasteries at Alexandria, Damictta, Cairo, and 
two in Upper Egypt. The orthodox Greek Church 
has in Egypt a population of about 8000 souls. They 
are under the patriarch of Alexandria, who resides at 
Alexandria or Cairo, and whose official title is “The 
most Blessed and Holy Patriarch of the great City of 
Alexandria, and of all Egypt, Pentapolis, Libya, and 
Ethiopia, Pope, and (Ecumenical Judge.” Four inet- 
ropolical sees belong to the Greek patriarchate of Al- 
exandria, viz.: 1, Libya; 2. Memphis; 3. Pclusium; 
4. Metelis ; but the last three appear to have been va- 
cant for some time. 

The mission of the American United Presbyte- 


rian Church reported at the General Assembly for 
18G8 the following statistics : missionaries, 12, includ- 
ing one medical missionary; congregations, 5; organ- 
ized out-stations, 9 ; communicants, 125. The mission 
occupies live central stations : Alexandria, Cairo, Osi- 
oot (the metropolis of Upper Egypt), Fayoum, and 
Ghous. The theological school at Osioot had in 18G7 
13 theological students. Schools for boys and girls are 
organized in connection with each of the live churches 
and at each of the out-stations. The distribution of 
the Bible is prosecuted by the agents of the British and 
Foreign Bible Society, by the American missionaries, 
by the Crischona mission, and by others. There were, 
in 18GG, three depots in Cairo for the sale of the Bible, 
and the yearly sale of the Scriptures averaged from 
7000 to 10,000 copies. " The Crischona, or Pilgrim 
mission, at Basel, Switzerland, intended to establish 
a so-called “Apostles’ Street,” or series of twelve sta- 
tions, from Alexandria far into the heart of Abyssinia. 
Of these, the following stations were, in 18GG, in active 
operation in Egypt: St. Matthew's in Alexandria; St. 
Mark’s in Cairo ; St. Peter’s at Assouan, at the falls 
of the Nile ; St. Thomas at Khartoum, at the junction 
of the White and Blue Niles ; and St. Paul’s at Ma- 
tammali, on the borders of Abyssinia. The deacon- 
esses of Ivaiserswerth have a hospital in Alexandria, 
and the first German Protestant church of Egypt was 
opened in 18GG. — Princeton Review, 1850, p. 260 ; 1850, 
p. 715; Newcomb, Cyclop . of Missions, s. v. ; Hard- 
wick, Christ and other Masters, vol. ii ; Journal of Sac. 
Lit. viii, ix ; Bibliotheca Sacra, vi, 707 ; Christian Year - 
booh for 1867, p. 289; the Annual Reports of the U. P. 
Foreign Mission Board, in July number of Evangel. 
Repository (18G0-18G8). (A. J. S.) 

Egyp'tian (properly y*'?, Mitsri' , AiyvTcrtoQ ; 
but often in the plur. as a rendering in the A. V. of 

Egypt), a native of the land of Egypt (q. v.) ; 
found in the sing. masc. (Gen. xxxix, 1, etc. ; Acts 
xxi, 38, etc.), fern. (Gen. xvi, 1), plur. masc. 

(Gen. xii, 12, i4 ; Acts vii, 22, etc.), fern, 
r (Exod. i, 19). The Egyptian insurrectionist 

of Acts xxi, 38, seems to have been a mountebank 
(yat]C, Josephus, Bar, ii, 13, 5), or pretended prophet 
(HmL xx, 7, G). See Paul. That country was pro- 
verbial for such characters. 

EGYPTIAN PLAGUES. See Plagues of 
Egypt. 

EGYPTIAN VERSIONS of tiie Holy Scrip- 
tures. After the death of Alexander the Great the 
Greeks multiplied in Ejypt, and obtained important 
places of trust near the throne of the Ptolemies. The 
Greek language accordingly began to diffuse itself 
from the court among the people, so that the proper 
language of the country was either forced to adapt it- 
self to the Greek both in construction and in the adop- 
tion of new words, or was entirely suspended. In 
this way originated the Coptic, compounded of the old 
Egyptian and the Greek. (See Tattam, Egyptian 
Grammar of the Coptic, Sahidic, and Bttshmuric Ver- 
sions, 2d edit. Lond. I860.) See Coptiu Language, 
There is a version in the dialect of Lower Egypt usu- 
ally called the Coptic, or, better, the Memphitic version ; 
and there is another in the dialect of Upper Egypt, 
termed the Sahidic, and sometimes the Thebaic. See 
Davidson, Bibl. Criticism, ii, 20G sq. ; Scrivener, Introd. 
to N. T. p. 270 sq. ; Westcott, N.-T. Canon , p. 322 sq. 

1. The Memphitic version of the Bible. — The O. T. 
in this version was made from the Septuagint and not 
from the original Hebrew. It would appear from 
Miinter (Specim. rerss. Ban. C<pt. Roma?, 1786) that the 
original was the Ilesychian recension of the Sept, then 
current in the country. There is little doubt that all 
the O.-T. books were translated, though many of them 
have not vet been discovered. Although this version 
(not the Thebaic) seems to be that exclusively used 


EHI 


108 


EHUD 


in the public services of the Copt 5 ;, it was not known 
in Europe till Dr. Marshall, of Lincoln College, con- 
tributed some readings from it to bishop Fell’s New 
Testament (Oxford, 1075). The Pentateuch has been 
published by Wilkins (London, 1781, 4to), by Fallet 
(Paris, 1854 sq.), and by De La garde (Leipz. 1867, 
8vo); the Psalms at Pome (1714 and 1749) by the 
Propaganda Society. In 1837 Ideler published the 
Psalter more correctly : and in 1844 the best critical 
edition, by Schwartze, appeared. Tbe twelve minor 
prophets were published by Tattam (Oxon. 1836, 8vo), 
and the major prophets by the same (1852). Bardelli 
published Daniel (Pisa, 1849). A few pieces of other 
books were printed at different times by Mingarelli, 
Quatremere, and Miinter. The N. T., made from the 
original Greek, was published by Wilkins, with a Lat- 
in translation (Oxford, 1716). In 1846 a new and more 
correct edition was begun by Schwartze, and con- 
tinued, but in a different manner, after his death, by 
Bottichcr (1852, etc.). In 1848-52, the “ Society for 
promoting Christian Knowledge” published the N. T. 
in Memphitic aiul Arabic (Loiul. 2 vols. fol.). The 
text was revised by Lieder. The readings of this ver- 
sion, as may be inferred from the place where it was 
made, coincide with the Alexandrine family, and de- 
serve the attention of the critic. Unfortunately, the 
version has not yet been adequately edited. 1 1 belongs 
perhaps to the 3d century. See Davidson, in Horne’s 
Jntrod. ii, 66. 

2. The Thebaic . — This version was also made from 
the Greek, both in the O. and N. T., and probably in 
the 2d century. Only some fragments of the. O.-T. 
part have been printed by Miinter, Mingarelli, and 
Zoega. In the N. T. it agrees generally, though not 
uniformly, with the Alexandrine family. Not a few 
readings, however, are peculiar; and some harmonize 
with the Latin versions. Fragments of it have been 
published by Mingarelli, Giorgi, Miinter, and Ford. 

3. The Bashmuric , or A mmonian . — Only some frag- 
ments of such a version in the O. and N. T. have been 
published, and very little is known concerning it. 
Scholars are not agreed as to the nature of the dialect 
in which it is written, some thinking that it does not 
deserve the name of a dialect, while others regard the 
Bashmuric as a kind of intermediate dialect between 
those spoken in Upper and Lower Egypt. Hug and 
De Wette are inclined to believe that it is merely the 
version of Upper Egypt transferred to the idiom of the 
particular place where the Bashmuric was spoken. 
The origin of this version belongs to the 3d or 4lh 
century. See Tregclles, in Horne’s Introduct . iv, 287- 
299. — Kitto, s. v. See Versions (of tiie Bible). 

E'hi (Heb. EchT , ^nx, prob. a modified form of 
the name Am ; Sept. ’Ayx'ig ; Vulg. Eclii ), one of the 
“sons” of Benjamin (Gen. xlvi, 21), apparently the 
grandson called Am ham (q. v.) in Num. xxvi, 38 
(from which the name is perhaps contracted). In the 
parallel passage (1 Chron. viii, 6) he seems to be call- 
ed Enri> (q. v.). 

E'kud (lleb. Ehud' , union), the name of 

two or three Benjamites, and apparently hereditary in 
that tribe, like Gera (q. v.). 

1. (Sept. "12d v. r. 'Awfl ; Vulg. Ahod .) A descend- 
ant of Benjamin, progenitor of one of the clans of Geba 
that removed to Manahath (I Chron. xiii, 10). The 
name is there written “UPiX, Echud either for 
as above, or altogether erroneously for "HX, Echi i. e. 
Em (q. v.), the grandson of Benjamin, which appears 
in the parallel list of Gen. xlvi, 21, and as a son of 
Belah according to the Sept, version of that passage, 
lie seems to be the same as Ahi-ram, C^TIX, in the 
list in Num. xxvi, 38, and, if so, A hi ram is probably 
the l ight name, as the family were called Ahiramifcs. 
In 1 Chron. viii, 1, the same person seems to.be called 
P“PN, Aiiarah, and perhaps also rnnx, Aiioaii, in 


ver. 4 (Sept. ’Ayta, and in Cod. Vatic. 'AyipdU), PUHX 
(’Aytrt), A Utah, ver. 7, and PHX (’Aop), A her, 1 Chron. 
vii, 12. See Siiauaraim. These fluctuations in the 
orthography seem to indicate that the original copies 
were partly effaced by time or injury. See Becher ; 
Chronicles. 

2 . (Sept. ’A ftew v. r. ’Aw3-; Vulg. Aod .) The third 
named of the seven sons of Bilhan, the son of Jediael, 
and grandson of the patriarch Jacob (1 Chron. vii, 10). 
B.C. post 1856. 

3. (Sept. ’Amc ; Vulg. Aod; Josephus ’H overje.) The 
son of Gera (there were three others of this name, Gen. 
xlvi, 21 ; 2 Sam. xvi, 5; 1 Chron. viii, 3), of the tribe 
of Benjamin (Judg. iii, 16, marg. “son of Jemini,” but 
vid. Gesenius, Lex. sub v. “p^SS), the second judge 
of the Israelites, or, rather, of that part of Israel which 
he delivered from the dominion of the Moabites by the 
assassination of their king Eglon. These were the 
tribes beyond the Jordan, and the southern tribes on 
this side the river. In the Bible lie is not called a 
judge, but a deliverer (1. c.) ; so Othnicl (Judg. iii, 9), 
and all the judges (Neb. ix, 27). As a Bcnjamite he 
was specially chosen to destroy Eglon, who had estab- 
lished himself in Jericho, which was included in the 
boundaries of that tribe. See Eglon. In Josephus 
he appears as a young man (vtaviag). lie was very 
strong, and left-handed. So A. V. ; but the more lit- 

j oral rendering is, as in the margin, “ shut of his right 
hand.” The words are differently rendered: 1. left- 
handed, and unable to use his right; 2. using his left 
hand as readily as his right. For 1. Targum, Josephus, 
Syr. ( impotem ), Arab. ( aridmn ), and Jewish writers 
generally ; Cajet., Buxtorf, Parkh., Gesen .(impeditus): 
derivation of “L2X from “‘IJX, the latter only in Psa. 
lxix, 16, where it = to shut. For 2. Sept. (dptpioiZioc), 
Vulg. (oui utrdque manu pro dextrd ntebatur ), Corn, a 
Lap., Bonfrcr., Patrick (comp. irtmlth ac, Horn. II. 
xxi,163; Hipp. Ajh. 7, 43) ; Judg. xx, 16, sole lecur- 
rence of the phrase, applied to 700 Benjamites, the 
picked men of the army, who were not likely to be 
chosen for a physical defect. As regards Psa. lxix, 
16, it is urged that ^Z2X \Yio.y=corono=aperio; hence 
“OX — apertus = expeditus, q. d. expedita dextra ; or if 
“claitstutj 11 clausvs de.itrd=cinctus dextrd=7repiceKiog , 
ambidexter (vid. Poli The feint of drawing the 

dagger from the right thigh (Judg. iii, 21) is consistent 
with either opinion. See Ambidexter. 

Ehud obtained access to Eglon as the bearer of trib- 
ute from the subjugated tribes, and being left-handed, 
or, rather, ambidextrous, he was enabled to use with a 
sure, and fatal aim a dagger concealed under a part of 
his dress, where it was unsuspected, because it would 
there have been useless to a person employing his 
right hand. The circumstances attending this tragical 
event are somewhat differently given in Judges and 
in Josephus (see Winkler, Enters. sclitrerer Schriftst. i, 
45 sq. ; lledslob, in the Studiai n. Krit. ix, 912 sq. ; 
Ewahl, Isr. Gesch. ii, 375 sq.). That Ehud had the en- 
tree of the palace is implied in Judges (iii, 19), but 
more distinctly stated in Josephus. In Judges the 
Israelites send a present by Ehud (iii, 15): in Josephus 
Ehud wins his favor by repeated presents of his own. 
Josephus represents this intimacy as having been of 
long continuance; but in Judges we find no mention 
: of intimacy, and only one occasion of a present being 
made, viz., that which immediately preceded the death 
I of Eglon. In Judges we have two scenes, the offering 
! of the present and t lie death scene, which are separated 
by the temporary withdrawal of Ehud (ver. 1*, 19) ; in 
.1 < sephus there is but one scene. The present is offered, 

, the attendants are dismissed, and the king enters into 
friendly conversation (o/uXtor) with Ehud. In Judges 
the place seems to change from the reception -room into 
the “summer-parlor,” where Ehud found him upon his 
return (ccmp. ver. 18, 20). In Josephus the entire ac- 


EKDACIi 


109 EINSIEDELN 


tion takes place in the summer-parlor ( empciTiov ). In 
Judges the king exposes himself to the dagger by ris- 
ing apparently in respect for the divine message which 
Eh nd professed to communicate (Patrick, ad loc.) ; in 
Josephus it is a dream which Elmd pretends to reveal, 
and the king, in delighted anticipation, springs up 
from his throne. The obesity of Eglon, and the con- 
sequent impossibility of recovering the dagger, are not 
mentioned by Josephus (vid. Judg. iii, 17, fat, dcrTtiog , 
Sept.; but “crassus,” Vulg., and so Gesenius, Lex.), 
The “quarries that were by Gilgal,” to which Eliud 
retired in the interval between the two interviews (iii, 
19), are rendered in the margin better, as in Deut. vii, 
25, “graven images” (Patrick, ad loc.; comp. Gesen. 
Ileb. Lex . s. v. C^DB). See Eglon. 

After this desperate achievement Ehud repaired to 
Seirah (improp. Seirath ; see Gesen. Lex. s. v.), in the 
mountains of Ephraim (iii, 2G, 27), or Mount Ephra- 
im (Josh, xix, 50). To this wild central region, com- 
manding, as it did, the plains east and west, he sum- 
moned the Israelites by sound of horn (a national 
custom according to Josephus; A.Y. “a trumpet”). 
Descending from the hills they fell upon the Moabites, 
dismayed and demoralized by the death of their king 
(Josephus, not Judges). The greater number were 
killed at once, but 10,000 men made for the Jordan 
with the view of crossing into their own country. 
The Israelites, however, had already seized the fords , 
and not one of the unhappy fugitives escaped. As a 
reward for his conduct Ehud was appointed judge (Jo- 
sephus, not Judges). The Israelites continued to en- 
joy for eighty years (B.C. 1509-1430) the indepen- 
dence obtained through this deed of Ehud (Judg. iii, 
15-30). — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. See Judges. 

Ekdach. See Carbuncle. 

Eiehhorn, Johann Gottfried, a celebrated 
German Orientalist and theologian, was born Oct. 1G, 
1752, at Dorenzimmern, in the principality of Ilohen- 
lohe-CEhringen. lie received his education at the 
gymnasium of Heilbronn and at the University of 
Gottingen, under Miehaelis and Heyne. He became 
professor of Oriental literature at Jena in 1775, and 
was named court-councillor by the duke of Saxe-Wei- 
mar in 1783. In 1788 he succeeded Miehaelis as pro- 
fessor of philosophy at the University of Gottingen, 
and in 1811 he was made professor of theology there, 
which post he retained until his death, June 25, 1827. 
Eiehhorn was a thoroughly industrious student and a 
very voluminous writer. His first proof of Oriental 
knowledge was given in his Geschichte des Ostindischen 
Handels vor Mohammed (Gotha, 1775, 8vo). This was 
followed by Monumeuta untiquissima histories Arabian, 
post Alh. Sehultcns, arablce edldlt , latine vertit , et an - 
imadvers. adjedt J. G. Elckhom (Gotha, 1775, 8vo) : — 
He rei nummarue apud Arabos iuitiis (Jena, 1776, 4to). 
At Jena he devoted himself to Biblical literature, and 
established, as a sort of organ, a magazine entitled 
Repertorhim filr biblische und morgenldndische Liter atur, 
which lasted from 1777 to 178G (Leipzig), and was 
followed by the Allgemeine Bib/iothek d. biblischen Lit - 
eratur (Leipz. 1787-1803, 10 vols. 8vo). Ills profes- 
sorship at Gottingen opened to him a wider field (1788) 
alter the death of J. D. Miehaelis. He lectured not 
only on Oriental literature, and on the exegesis of the 
O. and N. T., but also in the field of general history, 
in which he soon appeared as an author. In 1790-93 
appeared his UrgcscMchte (Primitive History), edited 
by Gabler from the Repertodum (Nuremh. 8vo). His 
more important works, in addition, are Commentarius 
in Apocafypsin Joannis (Getting. 1791, 2 vols. 8v<>): — 
Einleitung ins A.T. : Einleitung ins N. T. (also publish- 
ed under the general title of Kritische Schriften , Leips. 
1804-1814, 8vo, 7 vols.). He also published a number 
of historical writings, besides many essays, reviews, 
etc. ; and all this time his lectures w r ere kept up in 
the university. The zealous and continued indus- 


try of Eiehhorn is one of the marvels of modem lit- 
erature. 

As an interpreter of the Bible, Eiehhorn, following 
Miehaelis, transcended him in the boldness of his crit- 
icism and in his far-reaching Rationalism. The re- 
sults of his criticism were that the Bible, as we have 
it , has only a moral and literary superiority over other 
books. The primeval history attributed to Moses was 
made up of ancient sagas , and gathered up, partly, by 
Moses into the Pentateuch. His system of interpre- 
tation multiplies paradoxes, and tends to uproot the 
Christian revelation, as such, entirely. In his view 
the Apocalypse is a prophetic drama, and he comments 
on it as he would on a play of Aristophanes or Terence. 
But his vast labors in Biblical literature retain great 
part of their reputation, while his method of interpre- 
tation is fast passing into oblivion, even in Germany. 
— Saintes, History of Rationalism , chap, xi ; Herzog, 
Rea l-En cyklop. iii, 710. 

Eiehhorn, Karl Friedrich, son of Johann Gott- 
fried Eiehhorn (q. v.), was born at Jena in 1781. Af- 
ter completing his studies at the University of Gottin- 
gen, he became privatdocent of law at the University 
of Jena. In 1805 he was appointed professor at the 
University of Frankfort on the Oder, and in 1811 was 
transferred, with the university, to Berlin, where he 
edited, with Savignv, Goschen, and, later, with Ru- 
dorff, th cZeitschrift fur geschichtliche Reihtswusenschaft. 
From 1817 to 1828 lie was professor of Church law, and 
other branches, at Gottingen ; from 1831 to 1833 pro- 
fessor at the University of Berlin. In 1833 he was 
appointed a member of the supreme state court, and 
subsequently filled some other high offices in the civ- 
il administration. He was regarded as the head of 
the historical school of German jurists, lie died at 
Berlin July 4, 1854. Besides a number of law books, 
which still occupy a high rank in that literature, he 
w rote a work on Church law (Grundsdtze des Kirchen - 
rechts der Icathol. u. evangel. Religionsparteien , Gotting. 
1831-1833). — Herzog, Reul-Encykl. xi ? 470. (A. J. S.) 

Einhard. See Eginhard. 

Einsiedeln (Maria-Einsi edeln , Deiparce Virginia 
Eremus , Notre Dame des Er mites), a Benedictine mon- 
astery in Switzerland, founded in the 9th century by 
Meinrad of Soleure, who was murdered by robbers 
A.D. 861. In 934, Ebcrhard, provost of the cathedral 
of Strasburg, built a monastery and church here, which 
the emperor Otto, in 946, endowed with the free right 
of election. The convent was to he consecrated Sep- 
tember 14, 948, by the bishop of Constanz, but the 
latter claimed to have heard the preceding night the 
song of angels, and to have seen Christ himself, at- 
tended by angels, saying mass and consecrating the 
chapel ; and when, the next morning, he prepared to 
perform the act of consecration, he w r as admonished 
hv a voice saying, “ Hold on, brother, God himself 
has dedicated the chapel.” The story w'as believed, 
and on the sole strength of it the annual pilgrim- 
age to Einsiedeln on September 14, to commemorate 
the “Angelic Consecration” (Engel -]Vdhi), became, 
and still is, one of the most famous pilgrimages in the 
Church of Rome. The popes granted full absolution 
to all w’lio went in pilgrimage to the church. The 
congregation consisted mostly of scions of noble fami- 
lies, and the convent steadily increased in power and 
riches. A new church w r as built in the beginning of 
the last century on the model of the Lateran Church, 
and contains Meinrad’s cell and the image of the Vir- 
gin. In the time of the Reformation most of the 
monks left the convent, but it was subsequently reor- 
ganized by Ludwig Blarer, a Benedictine monk of St, 
Gall. In 1710 2G0,000 are said to have visited Ein- 
siedeln, and iri 1851 the number was over 200,000. 
The vendors of blessed images, medals, etc., do a thriv- 
ing business there, and at a large profit. There are 
at Einsiedeln confessionals fer the people of different 


EISEX MEN GE1 


110 


EKRON 


nations and languages, each bearing an inscription by 
which it is recognised. In 1807 the convent had 75 
priests, and 6 clerical and 17 lay brothers. The 
“Stiftsschule” (“ Gymnasium” and Lyceum) number- 
ed about 200 pupils. Until 1852 the convent had a sec- 
ond “gymnasium” in Bellizona, in the canton of Tes- 
sin, but in that year it was suppressed by the Liberal 
government of the canton. See Placid us, Documenta 
archiv'd Eiusidlensis (3 vols. folio); Annates Jleremi 
Dcipanv matris (Frib. Brisg. 1012, fol.) ; Herzog, Real- 
Eneyklop. iii, 7*12; Lainlolt, Ur sprung u. erste Gestal- 
tung <lcs Blasters Einsiedeln (Finsied. 1845); Brandes, 
IJc-r heil. J fe inrad u. die Wallfahrt von Einsiedeln (Ein- 
siedeln, 1861). 

Eisenmenger, Johann Andreas, a German Ori- 
entalist, was born at Mannheim in 1654, and studied at 
the University of Heidelberg, in which, after a journey 
to England and Holland, lie became in 1700 professor 
of Oriental languages. He died in 1704. His princi- 
pal work is entitled EntdecktesJudenthum(¥YViki. 1700). 
The Jews opposed its publication by all means in their 
power, and even obtained an imperial edict against it. 
At the time of his death nearly the whole edition of 
the work still lay under arrest. The Jews shortly be- 
fore offered him 12,000 florins for the surrender of all 
the copies, but he asked 30,000. Friedrich I of Prus- 
sia appealed, in behalf of the heirs of Eisenmenger, 
to the emperors Leopold and Joseph for permission to 
publish the book, and, when this led to no result, had 
the book reprinted and published at his own expense 
(Konigsberg, 1711). Subsequently the Frankfort edi- 
tion was also permitted to sec the light. Eisenmenger 
also compiled a Lexicon Orientale harmonicum , which 
has never been printed, and he published, conjointly' 
with Lcusden (q. v.),in 1004, an edition (without points) 
of the Hsb. Bible.— -Herzog, Re.ul-Eniyk. iii, 744; Hoe- 
fer, Biog. Gen. xv, 776 ; Wetzer n. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. 
xii, oil ; Jost, Gesch. der Juden. vol. viii. (J. II. W.) 

E'ker (Hob. id. a plant rooted up and trans- 
planted, e. g. metaph. a resident foreigner, Lev. xxv, 
47), the youngest of the three sons of Lain, the grand- 
son of Ilezron (1 Chron. ii, 27 ; Sept. ’Af cop, Yulg. 
Aehar). B.C. post 1856. 

Ekkehard, the name of several learned monks of 
St. Gall. The lirst of the name, about the middle of the 
10th century, was the director of the convent school, and 
subsequently dean of the convent. lie laid the foun- 
dation of the literary celebrity of St. Gall, wrote sev- 
eral ecclesiastical hymns, and is honorably mentioned 
in the history of German literature. Another Ekke - 
hard, a nephew of the former, was also a director of 
the convent school, and subsequently a chaplain of 
emperor Otto II. He also composed ecclesiastical 
hymns, and is supposed to have been familiar with ste- 
nography. He died April 28, 900. A third Ekke hard, 
born about 980, was a pupil of Notker Labeo, and be- 
came distinguished for his knowledge of Latin, Greek, 
German, mathematics, astronomy, and music. Aribo, 
archbishop of Mentz, appointed him superior of the 
cathedral school of that city. He continued the An- 
nals of St. Gall, which a monk by the name of Ratper- 
tus had begun and carried to the year 883. This work, 
Gasus Memasterii Sancti Galli (printed in Monvmenta 
Germania ? hist or. Scriptor. ii, 74-163) is of great im- 
portance for the Church history of the 10th century. 
Ekkehard also compiled a collection of ecclesiastical 
hymns, under the title Liber Benedictionum. He wrote 
a poem, I)p ornatu dictionis , and translated a life of St. 
Gall, in German verses by Ratpertus, into Latin, lie 
died in 1080. A fourth Ekkehard, who lived at the 
beginning of the 12th century', wrote a Vita Saneti Not- 
keri. — Herzog, Retd- Eneyklop. iii, 745. (A. J. S.) 

Ek'rebel (’Bicp f/ 3//X ; Pesli. Eerahat ; Yulg. omits), 
a place named in Jud. vii, 18 ojdy, as “near to Chusi, 
which is on the brook Moohmur,” apparently some- 
where in the hill country' to the south-east of the Plain 


of Esdraelon and of Dothain. The Syriac reading of 
the word points to the place Aerabbein, mentioned by 
Eusebius in the Onomasticon as the capital of a district 
called Acrabattine, and still standing as Akrabih, about 
six miles south-east of Nablus (Shechem), in the Wady 
Makfuriyeh, on the road to the Jordan valley (Yan de 
\ elde, ii, 304, and Map). Though frequently' mention- 
ed by Josephus (liar, ii, 20, 4 ; iii, 3, 5, etc.), neither 
the place nor the district are named in the Bible, and 
they' must not be confounded with those of the same 
name in the south of Judah. — Smith, s. v. See Ak- 
rabbtm; Araeattlne; Maaleii-acrabbiji. 

Ek'ron (Ileb. Ekron', , eradication ; comp. 

Zepli. ii, 4, which apparently' contains a play’ upon the 
word; Sept, [usually'] and Josephus i) 'AKKapibv, Yulg. 
Accaron), one of the live towns belonging to the lords 
of the Philistines, and the most northerly' of the five 
(Josh, xiii, 3). Like the other Philistine cities, its 
situation was in the maritime plain. In the gen- 
eral distribution of territory' (unconquered as well as 
conquered) Ekron was assigned to Judah, as being 
upon its border (Josh, xiii, 3), between Bethshemesh 
and Jabneel (Josh, xv, 11,45), but apparently' was af- 
terwards given to Han, although conquered by' Judah 
(Josh, xv, 11, 45; xix, 43; Judg. i, 18; comp. Jose- 
phus, Ant. v, 1, 22; v, 2, 4). But it mattered little 
to which tribe it nominally' belonged, for before the 
monarchy' it was again in full possession of the Philis- 
tines (1 Sam. v, 10). In Scripture Ekron is chiefly' re- 
markable from the ark having been sent homo from 
thence, upon a new cart drawn by' two milch kine (1 
Sam. v, 10; vi, 1-8). Ekron was the last place to 
which the ark was carried before its return to Israel, 
and the mortality' there in consequence seems to have 
been greater than at either Aslulcd or Gath. ( r Ihe 
Sept, in both MSS., and Josephus [Ant. vi, 1, 1], 
substitute Asealon for Ekron throughout this passage 
[1 Sam. v, 10-12]. In support of this it should he re- 
marked that, according to the Hebrew text, the golden 
trespass-offerings were given for Ashkelon, though it is 
omitted from the detailed narrative of the journeyings 
of the ark. There'are other important differences be- 
tween the Sept, and Hebrew texts of this transaction. 
See especially' v, 0.) From Ekron to Bethshemesh 
(q. v.) was a straight highway' (Thomson, Land and 
Book, ii, 309). After David’s victory' over Goliath, the 
Philistines were pursued as far as this place (1 Sam. 
xvii, 52). Henceforward Ekron appears to have re- 
mained uninterruptedly' in the hands of the Philistines 
(1 Sam. xvii, 52 ; 2 Kings i, 2, 10 ; Jer. xxv, 20). Ex- 
cept the casual mention of a noted sanctuary' of Baal- 
zebub (q. v.) existing there (2 Kings i, 2, 3, C, 16), 
there is nothing to distinguish Ekrcn from any' ether 
town of this district. In later days it is merely named 
with the other cities of the Philistines in the denunci- 
ations of the prophets against that people (Jer. xxv, 
20; Amos i,8; Zepli. ii, 4; Zeeh. ix, 5). 1 he name 

occurs in the cuneiform inscriptions (q. v.) of the As- 
syrian monuments. In the Apocrypha it appears as 
Accaron (’Aiacapibr, 1 Mace, x, 89, only), bestowed 
with its borders (rd opia avrijc) by' Alexander Balas 
on Jonathan Maecabanis as a reward for his services. 
Eusebius and Jerome describe it ( Onomast . s. v. Ak- 
tcapior , Accaron ) as a large village of the Jews, be- 
tween Azotus and Jamnia towards the east, or east- 
ward of a line drawn between these two places. The 
same name Accaron occurs incidentally' in the his- 
tories of the Crusades (Gesta Dei per Francos, p. 404). 
The site of Ekron has lately' been recognised by I>r. 
Robinson (Bib. Researches, iii, 24) in that of *A kir, 
in a situation corresponding to all that we know of 
Ekron. The radical letters of the Arabic name are 
the same as those .of the Hebrew, and both the Chris- 
tians and Moslems of the neighborhood regard the site 
as that of the ancient Ekron. It is a considerable 
Moslem village, about live miles south-west of Ram- 


EKEONITE 


111 


ELAIS 


leh, and three due east of Yebna, on the northern side 
of the important valley Wady Surar. It is built of 
unburnt bricks, and, as there are no apparent ruins, 
the aneient town was probably of the same materials. 
It is alleged, however, that cisterns and the stones of 
hand-mills are often found at Akir and in the adjacent 
fields. The plain south is rich, but immediately round 
the village it has a dreary, forsaken appearanee (hence 
perhaps the name = *' wasteness”), only relieved by a 
few scattered stunted trees (Porter, Ilandb. p.275 ; and 
see Van de Velde, ii, 169). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Ek'ronite (Heb. Ekroni', Josh, xiii, 3, 

Sept. , Afcfc«pwr<V//c,Vulg. Accaronilce; plur. 

1 Sam. v, 10, ’AaKaXiovircu, Acccironitce), a native of 
the Philistine town Ekron (q. v.). 

El- (^X, mighty , hence God , either Jehovah or a 
false deity; sometimes a hero or magistrate [see God]) 
occurs as a prefix (and also as a suffix) to several Heb. 
names, e. g. El-Beth-El; El-El-oih-Isra-el, all of 
which see in their place. Compare Eli-. 

E'la (’H\d,Vnlg. Jolaman ), one of the heads of 
clans (or places) whose “sons” had taken foreign 
wives after the Babylonian exile (1 Esdr. ix, 27) ; ev- 
idently the Elam (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra x, 26). 
See also Elaii. 

El'a&ah (Heb. Eladah' , whom God has 

pat on , i. e. fills with himself; Sept. ’EXaoct v. r. ’EA- 
£fltf«,Vulg. Elada ), one of the sons (rather than grand- 
son or later descendant, as the text seems to state) of 
Ephraim (1 Chron. vii, 20), perhaps the same as Ele- 
ad (q. v.) of ver. 21, since several of the names [see 
Taiiath] in the list appear to be repeated (compare 
Nunn xxvi, 36, where the only corresponding name is 
Eran). See Beriaii. 

E'lall (Heb. Elah', !"&X, terebinth or oak [q. v.]), 
the name of a place, and also of five men. 

1. The Valley of Elaii (rcxri vale of the 
terebinth or oak; Sept, i) KotXdc; ’HAd, but translates i) 
koi\uq Tijq cpvoQ in 1 Sam. xvii, 2, 19; Vulg. likewise 
vallis terebinthi ), a valley in (not “by,” as the A.V. 
has it) which the Israelites were encamped against the 
Philistines when David killed Goliath (1 Sam. xvii, 2, 
19 ; xxi, 9). It lay somewhere near Shocoli of Judah, 
and Azekah, and was nearer Ekron than any other 
Philistine town (1 Sam. xvii). Shocoh has been with 
great probability identified with Shmveikeh, near Beit 
Net if, some 14 miles SAW of Jerusalem, on the road 
to Beit Jibrin and Gaza, among the more western of 
the hills of Judah, not far from w here thej 1 - begin to 
descend into the great Philistine plain. The village 
stands on the south slopes of the wady es-Sumi , or 
valley of the acacia , which runs off in a NAV. direc- 
tion across the plain to the sea just above Ashdod. 
Above Shmveikeh it branches into two other wadys. 
large, though inferior in size to itself, and the junction 
of the three forms a considerable open space of not less 
than a mile -wide cultivated in fields of grain. In the 
centre is a wide torrent bed thickly strewed with round 
pebbles, and bordered by the acacia bushes from w’hich 
the valley derives its present name. There seems to 
be no reason to doubt that this is the Valley of the Ter- 
ebinth. It has changed its name, and is now called 
after another kind of tree (the sumt , or acacia), but the 
terebinth (batin') appears to be plentiful in the neigh- 
borhood, and one of the largest specimens in Palestine 
still stands in the immediate neighborhood of the spot, 
in wady Sur, the southernmost of the branch wadys. 
Four miles E. of Shuweikeh, along wady Musur, the 
other branch, is the khan and ruined site Akbeh, 
which Van de Velde proposes to identify with Azekah. 
These identifications are confirmed In’- that of Ephes- 
dammim (q. v.), the site of the Philistine camp. Ek- 
ron is 17 miles, and Bethlehem 12 miles distant from 
Shocoh. (For the valley, see Robinson, Researches , ii, 


350; Van de Velde, Narrative , ii, 191; Porter, Hand- 
book, p. 249, 250, 280 ; Schwarz, Palest, p. 77.) 

There is a point in the topographical indications of 
1 Sam. xvii which it is very desirable should be care- 
fully examined on the spot. The Philistines were be- 
tween Shocoh and Azekah, at Ephes-dammim, or Pas- 
dammiin, on the mountain on the S. side of the w-ady, 
while the Israelites were in the “valley” (p£2) of 
the terebinth, or, rather, on the mountain on the N. 
side, and “the ravine” or “the glen” (X^H) was be^ 
tween the two armies (ver. 2, 3). Again (ver. 52), 
the Israelites pursued the Philistines “till you come 
to ‘ the ravine’ ” (the same word). There is evident- 
1}' a marked difference between the “valley” and the 
“ravine,” and a little attention on the spot might do 
much towards elucidating this, and settling the iden- 
tification of the place. In the above location, the dis- 
tance between the armies was about a mile, and the 
vale beneath is flat and rich. The ridges rise on each 
side to the height of about 500 feet, and have a uni- 
form slope, so that the armies ranged along them 
could see the combat in the vale. The Philistines, 
when defeated, fled down the valley towards Gath and 
Ekron. 

The traditional “ Valley of the Terebinth” is the 
wady Beit-IIamna , which lies about 4 miles to the 
NAV. of Jerusalem, and is crossed by the road to Nebi 
Samwil. The scene of David’s conflict is pointed out 
a little N. of the “ Tombs of the Judges,” and close to 
the traces of the old paved road. In this valley olive- 
trees and carob-trees now prevail, and terebinth-trees 
are few; but the brook is still indicated whence the 
youthful champion selected the “ smooth stones” 
wherewith he smote the Philistine. The brook is dry 
in summer, but in winter it becomes a mighty torrent, 
which inundates the vale (Kitto, Pictorial Palestine, p. 
121). But this spot is in the tribe of Benjamin, and 
otherwise does not correspond with the narrative of 
the text (see Thenius, Sachs, exeg. Stud, ii, 151). — 
Smith, s. v. 

2. (Sept. TlAdt;, but ’HAde in Chron.; Vulg. Ela.') 
One of the Edomitish “dukes” or chieftains in Blount 
Seir (Gen. xxxvi, 41 ; 1 Chron. i, 52), B.C. post 1963. 
By Knobel ( Comment . zu Gen. in loc.) he is connected 
with Elath (q. v.) on the Red Sea. 

3. (Sept. ’Acd v. r. *AA d.) The middle one of the 
three sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh (1 Chron. iv, 
15), B.C. 1618. In that passage his sons are called 
Kenaz or Uknaz, but the words may be taken as if 
lvenaz was, with Elah, a son of Caleb. It is a singu- 
lar coincidence that the names of both Elah and Ke- 
naz also appear among the Edomitish “dukes.” 

4. (Properly Ela, Heb. Ela', X2X; Sept. ’HAd.) 
The father of Shimei ben-Ela, Solomon’s commissariat 
officer in Benjamin (1 Kings iv, 18), B.C'. 1013. 

5. (Sept. ’HAd, Josephus *IIActi»o£, Vulg. Ela.) The 
son and successor of Baasha, king of Israel (1 Kings 
xvi, 8-10) ; his reign lasted for little more than a year 
(comp. ver. 8 with 10), B.C. 928-7. He was killed 
while drunk by Zimri, in the house of his steward Ar- 
za, who was probably a confederate in the plot. This 
occurred, according to Josephus (Ant. viii, 12, 4), while 
his army and officers were absent at the siege of Gib- 
bethon. lie was the last king of Baisha’s line, and 
by this catastrophe the predictions of the prophet John 
were accomplished (1 Kings xvi, 6, 7, 11-14). 

6. (Sept. HAd.) The father of Hoshen, last king 
of Israel (2 Kings xv, 30 ; xvii, 1), B.C. 729, or ante. 

7. (Sept. ’HAd v. r. ’HAw,Vulg. Ela.) The son of 
Uzzi, and one of the Benjamite heads of families who 
were taken into captivity (1 Chron. ix, 8), or rather, 
perhaps, returned from it. B.C. 536. 

Elah. See Oak; Terebinth. 

Elais (TlA mg), a Phoenician city mentioned by 
Dionysius (Periegrd 10) and other ancient authors as 


ELAM 


112 


ELAM 


tying between Joppa and Gaza, bnt apparently mere- 
ly an appellative (see Ueland, Palaest. p. 747) for some 
place noted for olives (tXaia), which abound in that 
entire region. 

E'lam (Ileh. Eylam ', corresponding to the 

Feldvi A trjama [sec Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1016]), the 
name of a man and of the region settled by his pos- 
terity, also of several Hebrews, especially about the 
time of the Babylonian captivity. 

1. (Sept. ’EAd/i ; Josephus "E\n/<oc, Ant . i, 6, 4; 
Vulg. uElam .) Originally, like Aram, the name of a 
man — the son of Sliem (Gen. x, 22; 1 Chron. i, 17). 
B.C. post 2514. Commonly, however, it is used as the 
appellation of a country (Gen. xiv, 1, 9; Isa. xi, 11; 
xxi, 2; Jcr. xxv, 25; xlix, 34-89; Ezek. xxxii, 24; 
Dan. viii, 2). In Gen. xiv, 1, it is introduced along j 
with the kingdom of Shinar in Babylon, and in Isa. j 
xxi, 2, and Jer. xxv, 25, it is connected with Media, j 
In Ezra iv, 9, the Elamites are described among the 
nations of the Persian empire; and in Dan. viii, 2, , 
Susa is said to lie on the river Ulai (Eulaeus or Cho- 1 
aspes), in the province of Elam. This river was the i 
modern Karun (Layard, Nineveh and Bab. p. 146), 
and the capital of Elam was Shushan (q. v.), one of 
the most powerful and magnificent cities of the prime- 
val world. The name Elam occurs in the cuneiform 
inscriptions (q. v.) found on the bulls in Sennacherib’s 
palace at Nineveh. The country was also called Nu- 
vaki , as we learn from the monuments of Khorsabad 
and Besutun (Layard, Nin. and Bab. p. 452). 

The Elam of Scripture appears to be the province 
lying south of Assyria and east of Persia Proper, to 
which Herodotus gives the name of Cissia (iii, 91; v, 
49, etc.), and which is in part termed Susis or Susiana 
by the geographers (Strah. xv, 3, § 12; Ptolem. vi, 3, 1 
etc.). It includes a portion of the mountainous coun- . 
try separating between the Mesopotamian plain and 
the high table-land of Iran , together with a fertile 
and valuable low tract at the foot of the range, be- 
tween it and the Tigris. The passage of Daniel (viii, 
2) which places Shushan (Susa) in “ the province of j 
Elam,” may be regarded as decisive of this identifica- 
tion, which is further confirmed by the frequent men- 
tion of Elvmaians in this district (Strah. xi, 13, § 6; 
xvi, 1, § 17 ; Ptolem. vi, 3; Flin. II. N. vi, 26, etc.), 
as well as by the combinations in which Elam is found 
in Scripture (see Gen. xiv, 1 ; Isa. xxi, 2 : Ezek. xxxii, 
24). It appears from Gen. x, 22, that this country 
was originally peopled by descendants of Shorn, close- 
ly allied to the Aramaeans (Syrians) and the Assyr- 
ians; and from Gen. xiv, 1-12, it is evident that by 
the time of Abraham a very important power had 
been built up in the same region. Not only is “Chc- 
dor-laomer, king of Elam,” at the bead of a settled I 
government, and able to make war at a distance of j 
two thousand miles from bis own country, but he man- ' 
ifestly exercises a supremacy over a number of other 
kings, among whom we even find Amraphel, king of 
Shinar, or Babylonia. It is plain, then, that at this 
early time the predominant power in Lower Mesopo- 
tamia was Elam, which for a while held the place pos- 
sessed earlier bv Babylon (Gen. x, 10), and later by 
either Babylon or Assyria. Discoveries made in the 
country itself confirm thi* view. They exhibit to us | 
Susi, the Elamitic capital, as one of the most ancient 
cities of the East, and show that its monarchs main- 
tained, throughout almost the whole period of Baby- 
lonian and Assyrian greatness, a quasi-independent 
position. Traces are even thought to have been found 
of Chedor-laomer himself, whom some are inclined to 
identify with an early Babylonian monarch, who is 
called the “ lhivager of the AVest,” and whose name 
reads as Kudnr-mapnla. The Elamitic empire estab- 
lished at this time was, however, hut of short dura- 1 
tion. Babylon and Assyria proved, on the whole, 
stronger powers, and Elam during the period of their 


greatness can only be regarded as the foremost of their 
feudatories. Like the other subject nations she re- 
tained her own monarchs, and from time to time, for 
a longer or a shorter space, asserted and maintained 
her independence. But generally she was content to 
acknowledge one or other of the two leading powers 
as her suzerain. Towards the close of the Assyrian 
period she is found allied with Babylon, and engaged 
in hostilities with Assyria; but she seems to have de- 
clined in strength after the Assyrian empire was de- 
stroyed, and the Median and Macedonian arose upon 
its ruins. Elam is clearly a “ province” of Babylonia 
in Belshazzar’s time (Dan. viii, 2\ and we may pre- 
sume that it had been subject to Babylon at least from 
the reign of Nebuchadnezzar. The desolation which 
Jeremiah (xlix, 30-34) and Ezekiel (xxxii, 24, 25) 
foresaw was probably this conquest, which destroyed 
the last semblance of Elamitic independence. It is 
uncertain at what time the Persians added Elam to 
their empire. Possibly it only fell under their domin- 
ion together with Babylon ; but there is some reason 
to think that it may have revolted and joined the 
Persians before the city was besieged. The prophet 
Isaiah in two places (xxi, 2; xxii, 6) seems to speak 
of Elam as taking part in the destruction of Babylon ; 
and, unless we are to regard him with our translators 
as using the word loosely for Persia, we must suppose 
that, on the advance of Cyrus and his investment of 
the Chaldsean capital, Elam made common cause with 
the assailants. She now became merged in the Per- 
sian empire, forming a distinct satrapy (Herod, iii, 91), 
and furnishing to the crown an annual tribute of SCO 
talents. Susa, her capital, was made the ordinary res- 
idence of the court, and the metropolis of the whole 
empire. This mark of favor did net, however, prevent 
revolts. Not only was the Magian revolution organ- 
, ized and carried out at Susa, hut there seem to have 
been at least two Elamitic revolts in the early part of 
the reign of Darius Hvstaspis ( Behistun Inscr. col. i, 
par. 16, and col. ii, par. 3). After these futile efforts, 
Elam acquiesced in her subjection, and, as a Persian 
province, followed the fortunes of the empire. These 
historic facts illustrate the prophecy of Jeremiah (xlix, 
35-39), “And upon Elam will 1 bring the four winds 
from the four quarters of heaven, and I will scatter 
them towards all these winds.” The situation of the 
country exposed it to the invasions of Assyrians, 
Medes, and Babylonians; and it suffered from each in 
succession before it was finally embodied in the Per- 
sian empire. Then another part of the prophecy was 
also singularly fulfilled: “T will set my throne in 
Elam, and I will destroy from thence the king and 
princes.” The present state of the Persian empire, 
in which Elam is included, may be a fulfilment of the 
concluding words of the passage: “But it shall come 
to pass in the latter days that I will bring again the 
captivity of Elam” (Vaux, Nineveh and Persepolis , p. 
85 sq.). See Persia. 

Herodotus gives the name Cissia to the province of 
which Susa was the capital (iii, 91) ; Strabo distin- 
guishes between Susiana and the country of the Elv- 
m scans. The latter he extends northwards among 
the Zagros mountains (xi, 361 ; xv, 503 ; xvi, 507). 
Pliny says Susiana is separated from Elymais by the 
River Eulceus, and that the latter province extends 
from that river to the confines of Persia (Hist. Nat. 
vi, 27). Ptolemy locates Elymais on the coast of the 
Persian Gulf, and regards it as part only of Susiana 
Q Georrp \ vi, 3). According to Josephus, the Elvimeans 
were the progenitors of the Persians (J«L i, 6, 4); and 
Strabo refers to some of their scattered tribes as far 
north as the Caspian Sea. From these various notices, 
and from the incidental allusions in Scripture, we may 
conclude that there was a little province on the east 
of the Lower Tigris called Elymais ; but that the Elv- 
mieans, as a people, were anciently spread over and 
ruled a much wider district, to w'hich their name was 


ELAM 


113 


ELASAH 


often attached. They were a warlike people, trained 
to arms, and especially skilled in the use ot' the bow 
(Isa. xxi, 2; Jcr. xlix, 35); they roamed abroad like 
the Bedawin, and like them, too, were addicted to 
plunder (Strabo, xi, 301). Josephus mentions a town 
called Elytuais, which contained a famous temple ded- 
icated to Diana, and rich in gifts and votive offerings 
(Ant. xxii, 9, 1) ; Appian says it was dedicated to Ve- 
nus (Bochart, Opp. i, 70 sq.). Antioch us Epiphanes 
attempted to plunder it, but was repulsed (1 Macc. vi). 
It is a remarkable fact that little images of the god- 
dess, whose Assyrian name was Anaitis, were discover- 
ed by Loftus in the mounds of Susa ( Chaldceo , p. 379). 
The Elamites who were in Jerusalem at the feast of 
Pentecost were probably descendants of the captive 
tribes who had settled in Elam (Acts ii, 9). 

It has been repeatedly observed above that Elam is 
called Cissia by Herodotus, and Susiana by the Greek 
and Roman geographers. The latter is a term formed 
artificially from the capital city, but the former is a 
genuine territorial title, and probably marks an impor- 
tant fact in the history of the country. The Elamites, 
a Shemitie people, who were the primitive inhabitants 
(Gen. x, 22), appear to have been invaded and con- 
quered at a very early time by a Ilaniitic or Cushite 
race from Babylon, which was the ruling element in 
the territory from a date anterior to Chedor-laomer. 
These Cushites were called by the Greeks (A'ssians 
(K ifjcnoi) or Ccwsasans (KoovTaloO, and formed the dom- 
inant race, while the Elamites or Ely m seans were in a 
depressed condition. In Scripture the country is call- 
ed by its primitive title without reference to subse- 
quent changes ; in the Greek writers it takes its name 
from the conquerors. The Greek traditions of Mcm- 
non and his Ethiopians are based upon this Cushite 
conquest, and rightly connect the Cissians or Cossreans 
of Susiana with the Cushite inhabitants of the upper 
valley of the Nile. 

The fullest account of Elam, its physical geography, 
rnins, and history, is given in Loftus’s Chaldea and 
Susiana (Loud. 1856; N.Y. 1857). The southern part 
of the country is flat, and towards the shore of the gulf 
marshy and desolate. In the north the mountain 
ranges of Backhtiari and Luristan rise gradually from 
the plain in a series of calcareous terraces, intersected 
by ravines of singular wildness and grandeur. Among 
these mountains are the sources of the Ulai (Loftus, p. 
308, 347 sq.). The chief towns of Elymais are now 
Shuster (“ little Shush”) and Dizful ; but the greater 
part of the country is overrun by nomad Arabs. — Kitto, 
s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Elamite. 

2. (Sept. ’ItvQvijXtoXdp v . r. ’iwXdg, also ’QXup 
and AiXaf.i ; Vnlg. sElam.) A Korhite Levite, fifth 
son of Meshelemiah, one of the Bcnc-Asaph, and su- 
perintendent of the fifth division of Temple wardens 
in the time of king David (1 Chron. xxvi, 3), B.C. 
1014. 

3. (Sept. ’A);\«/< v. r. AiXcqu, Vulg. EElam.) A 
chief man of the tribe of Benjamin, one of the sons of 
Shashak, resident at Jerusalem at the captivity or on 
the return (1 Chron. viii, 24), B.C. 536 or ante. 

4. (Sept. \Y Y/Vrg, Vulg. sElam.) “Children 
of Elam,” Bene-Elam , to the number of 1254, returned 
with Zerubbabel from Babylon (Ezra ii, 7; Neh. vii, 
12; 1 Esdr. v, 12), and a 'further detachment of 71 
men with Ezra in the second caravan (Ezra viii, 7 ; 1 
Esdr. viii, 33). It was one of this family, Shechani- 
ah, son of Jeliiel, who encouraged Ezra in his efforts 
against the indiscriminate marriages of the people 
(Ezra x, 2, text fib 5 ’?, i. e. -Vir, Olam), and six of 
the Bene-Elam accordingly put away their foreign 
wives (Exra x, 26). The lists of Ezra ii and Neh. vii 
contain apparently an irregular mixture of the names 
of places and of persons. In the former, ver. 21-34, 
with one or two exceptions, are names of places; 3-19, 
on the other hand, are not known as names of places, 

III.— II 


and are probably of persons. No such place as Elam 
is mentioned as in Palestine, either in the Bible or in 
the Onomasticon of Eusebius, nor has since been dis- 
covered as existing in the country, although Schwarz 
endeavors (Palest, p. 143) to give the word a local ref- 
erence to the grave of a Samaritan priest Eli, at a vil- 
lage named by him as Charim ben-Elim, on the bay, 8 
miles N.N.E. of Jaffa. See IIarim. Most interpret- 
ers have therefore concluded that it was a person. 
B.C. ante 536. It is possible, however, that this and 
the following name have been borrowed from No. 1, 
perhaps as designating Jews who resided in that re- 
gion of the Babylonian dominions during the captivity. 

5. In the same lists is a second Elam, whose sons, 
to the same number as in the former case, returned 
with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 31 ; Neh. vii, 34), and which, 
for the sake of distinction, is called “the other Elam” 
(*nX ; Sept. ’HXa/<dp, ’HXn/<«dp,Vulg. JElam 
alter). The coincidence of the numbers is curious, 
and also suspicious, as arguing an accidental repetition 
of the foregoing name. B.C. ante 536. 

6. (Sept. A/Xrt/b Vulg. sElam.) One of the sacerdo- 
tal or Levitical singers who accompanied Nehemiah at 
the dedication of the new wall of Jerusalem (Neh. xii, 
42). B.C. 446. 

7. (Sept. TlXdjti, Vulg. aElum.) One of the chiefs 
of the people who signed the covenant with Nehemiah 
(Neh. x, 14), B.C. 410. 

E'lamite (Chald. Elemcn/ , *‘2^, in the plural 
iOlibr; Gr. ’KXvpaloi, Strabo, Ptolemy; or ’E Xa/ii- 
rai, Acts ii, 9; Vulg. ^Elamike). This word is found 
in the O. T. only in Ezra iv, 9, and is omitted in that 
place by the Sept, translators, who probably regarded 
it as a gloss upon “Susanchites,” which had occurred 
only a little before. The Elamites were the original 
inhabitants of the country called Elam ; the} r were 
descendants of Shein, and drew their name from an 
actual man, Elam (Gen. x, 22). It has been observed 
in the preceding article that the Elamites yielded be- 
fore a Cosssean or Cushite invasion. See Elam. They 
appear to have been driven in part to the mountains, 
where Strabo places them (xi, 13, § 6 ; xvi, 1, § 17), 
in part to the coast, where they are located by Ptole- 
my (vi, 3). Little is known of their manners and 
customs, or of their ethnic character. (See Muller, 
in the Journal Asiatique, 1839, vii, 299; Wahl, A sien, 
p. 603; Mannert, Geogr. X r , ii, 158; comp. Plutarch, 
Vit. Pomp. 36 ; Justin, xxxvi, 1 ; Tacit. Annul, vi, 44). 
Strabo says they were skilful archers (xv, 3, § 10; 
comp. Nenopli. Cgrop. ii, 1, 16; Livy, xxxv, 48; Ap- 
pian, Syr . 32), and with this agree the notices both of 
Isaiah and Jeremiah, the latter of whom speaks of 
“the bow of Elam” (xlix, 35), while the former sa} r s 
that “Elam bare the quiver” (xxii, 6). Isaiah also 
adds in this place that they fought both on horseback 
and from chariots. They appear to have retained 
their nationality with peculiar tenacity, for it is plain 
from the mention of them on the day of Pentecost 
(Acts ii, 9) that they still at that time kept their own 
language, and the distinct notice of them by Ptolemy 
more than a century later seems to show that they 
were not even then merged in the Cossseans. (See 
Hassel, Erdbeschr. v. sisien, ii, 769 sq. ; Assemani, 
Bill. Or. Ill, ii, 419, 744; comp. Herod, i, 102; Ar- 
rian, Ind. 42; Pliny, vi, 31; Strabo, xv, 728.) In 
Judith i, 6, the name is given in the Greek form as 
Elymjeans, and in 1 Macc. vi, 1, mention is made of 
a city Elymais (q. v.). — Smith, s. v. 

El'asah [some Ela / sah~\ (Ilcb. Elasah ', 
whom God made; Vulg. Elasd), the name of four men 
(variously Anglicized in the A. V.). Sec also Eleasa. 

1. (Sept. ’EXfrtaa.) The son of Ilelez, and father 
of Sisamai; one of the descendants of Judah, of the 
family of Hezron (1 Chron. ii, 39, A. V. “Eleasah”). 
B.C. post 1016. 


EL ATI I 


114 


ELATII 


2. (Sept. ’EXcacra v. r. ’EXaca, A. V. “ Elcasah.”) 
A son of Kapha or Kepharah, and father of Azel ; de- 
scendant of kino; Saul through Jonathan and Merib- 
baal or Mcphibosheth (1 Chron. viii, 37 ; ix, 43). B.C. 
considerably ante 588. 

3. (Sept. ’EXfacrrt'p v. r. ’EXtaorn', A.V. “Elasah.”) 
The son of Shaphan ; one of the two men who were 
sent on a mission by king Zedekiah to Nebuchadnez- 
zar at Babylon after the first deportation from Jerusa- 
lem, and who at the same time took charge of the let- 
ter of Jeremiah the prophet to the captives in Babylon 
(Jer. xxix, 3).* B.C. 594. 

4. (Sept. ’HXflffrt, A. V. “Elasah.”) One of the 
Bcne-Pashur, a priest, who renounced the Gentile wife 
whom he had married after the return from Babylon 
(Ezra x, 22). B.CV45S. 

E'lath (Ileb. Eylath ', grove, perhaps of 

TEREBiXTii-trces ; occurs in this form Dent, ii, 8; 2 
Kings xiv, 22; xvi, G; also in the plur. form 
“Ei.otii” [q. v.], 1 Kings ix, 2G; 2 Chron. viii, 17; 
xxvi, 2; “Elath,” 2 Kings xvi, G; in the Sept. Ar- 
\a% and A 1\mv ; in Joseph. [A nt. viii, G, 4] A IXavij ; in 
Jerome, A Hath [w ho says that in his day it v r as called 
Ailgh, to which its appellation in Arabic waiters corre- 
sponds] ; by the Greeks and Ilomans, Elana or sElana, 
’EXch'a [Ptol. v, 17, [AtXovrt [Strabo, xvi, 7G8 ; comp. 
Pliny, v, 12 ; vi, 32] ; in Arabic authors Allah), a city 
of Idumaea, having a port on the eastern arm or gulf of 
the Bed Sea, which thence received the name of Sinus 
Elanitieus (Gulf of Akabah). According to Eusebius 
( 0 no mast . s. v. 'HA«3), it was ten miles east from Petra. 
It must have been situated at the extremity of the val- 
ley of El-Ghor, which runs at the bottom of two par- 
allel ranges of hills, north and south, through Arabia 
Petnea, from the Dead Sea to the northern parts of the 
Elanitic Gulf; but on which side of the valley it lay 
has been matter of dispute (see M‘Culloch’s Geog. Diet. 
s. v. Akabah). In the geography of Arabia it forms 
the extreme northern limit of the province of the 
Hijoz (El-Makrizi, Khitat; and Marasid, s. v. ; comp. 
Arabia), and is connected with some points of the 
history of the country. According to several native 
writers the district of Ailah was in very ancient times 
peopled by the Sameyda’, said to be a tribe of the 
Amalekites (the first Amalek). The town itself, how- 
ever, is stated to have received its name from Ey- 
leh, daughter of Midian (El-Makrizi’s Khitat, s. v. ; 
Caussin’s Essai sur Vllistoire des Arahes, i, 23). The 
Amalekites, if we may credit the v T ritings of Arabic 
historians, passed in the earliest times from the neigh- 
borhood of the Persian Gulf through the peninsula 
(spreading over the greater part of it), and thence 
finally passed into Arabia Petraaa. Future research- 
es may trace in these fragments of primeval tradition 
the origin of the Phoenicians. Herodotus seems to 
strengthen such a supposition when he says that the 
latter people came from the Erythraean Sea. Were 
the Phoenicians a mixed Cushite settlement from the 
Persian Gulf, w ho carried with them the known mari- 
time characteristics of the peoples of that stock, devel- 
oped in the great commerce of Tyre, and in that of the 
Persian Gulf, and, as a link between their extreme 
eastern and western settlements, in the fleets that sail- 
ed from Ezion-gebcr and Elatli, and from the south- 
ern ports of the Yemen? See Arabia; Caphtgr; 
Mizraim. It should be observed, however, that Tyr- 
ian sailors manned the fleets of Solomon and of Je- 
hoshaphat (see Jour. Sac. Lit. Oct. 1851, p. 153, n.). — 
Smith, s. v. 

The first time that Elatli is mentioned in Scripture 
is in Dent. ii. 8, in speaking of the journey of the Isra- 
elites towards the Promised Land : “When wc passed 
by from our brethren the children of Esau, which dwelt 
in Scir, through the way of the plain from Elatli, and 
from Ezion-geber.” These two places are' mentioned 
together again in 1 Kings ix, 2G (comp. 2 Chron. viii, 


17), in such a manner as to show that Elatli was more 
ancient than Ezion-geber, and w r as of so much repute 
as to be used for indicating the locality of other places : 
the passage also fixes the spot "where Elatli itself w'as 
to be found : “ and king Solomon made a navy of ships 
in Ezion-geber, which is beside Elatli, on the shore 
(Num. xxxiii, 35) of the Red Sea, in the land of Edom.” 
Sec Ezion-geber. The use which David made of 
the vicinity of Elatli show's that the country w r as at 
that time in his possession. Accordingly, in 2 Sam. 
viii, 14, we learn that lie had previously made himself 
master of Id tunica, and garrisoned its strong-holds with 
his own troops. Under Joram, how ever (2 Kings viii, 
20), the Idumaeans revolted from Judali, and elected a 
king over themselves. Joram thereupon assembled 
his forces, “and all the chariots with him,” and, fall- 
ing on the I du m loans by night, succeeded in defeating 
and scattering their army. The Hebrews, neverthe- 
less, could not prevail, but “Edom revolted from under 
the hand of Judah unto this day;” thus exemplifying 
the striking language employed (Gen. xxvii, 40) by 
Isaac : “ By thy swonl slialt thou live, and slialt serve 
thy brother ; and it shall come to pass, when thou slialt 
have the dominion, that thou slialt break his yoke from 
off thy neck.” From 2 Kings xiv, 22, however, it ap- 
pears that Uzziah recovered Elath, and, having so re- 
paired and adorned the city as to he said to have built, 
that is, rebuilt it, lie made it a part of his dominions. 
This connection w r as not of long continuance; for in 
chap, xvi, vcr. G of the same hook, w e find the Syrian 
king Rezin interposing, who captured Elath, drove out 
the Jews, and annexed the place to his Syrian king- 
dom, and “the Syrians came to Elath, and dwelt there 
unto this day.” At a later period it fell under the 
power of the Romans, and w*as for a time guarded by 
the tenth legion, forming part of Falaistina Tertia (Je- 
rome, Onomast. s. v. Ailath ; Strabo, xxi, 4, 4 ; Reland, 
Palcest. p. 55G). It subsequently became the residence 
of a Christian bishop. Bishops of Elatli were at the 
Council of Chalcedon (A.D. 451) and at that of Con- 
stantinople (A.D. 53G). At the Council of Chalcedon, 
Bervllus thus wrote his designation as “ bishop of yEla 
of Third Palestine” (’AVX« rijg UaXainriviiQ vpirijc). 
In the days of its prosperity it w*as much distinguished 
for commerce, which continued to flourish under the 
auspices of Christianity (Cellarii Xotit. ii, G86 sq.). In 
the 6th century it is spoken of hv Procopius as being 
inhabited bv .Tews subject to the Roman dominion ( De 
Bell. Pers. i, 19). In A.D. G30 the Christian commu- 
nities of Arabia Pctrsca found it expedient to submit 
to Mohammed, w'lien John, the Christian governor of 
Ailah, became bound to pay an annual tribute of 300 
gold pieces (Abulfeda, Ann. i, 171). Henceforward, 
till the present century, Ailah lay in the darkness of 
Islamism. It is merely mentioned l>v the supposed 
lbn-Haukal (Engl, translation of D’Arvieux, Append, 
p. 353), perhaps in the lltli century; and, after the 
middle of the 12th, Edrisi describes it as a small town 
frequented by the Arabs, who were now its masters, 
and forming an important point in the route between 
Cairo and Medina. In A.D. 1116, king Baldwin of Je- 
rusalem took possession of it. Again it was wrested 
from the hands of the Christians by Saladin 1,A.D. 
1167, and never again fully recovered by them, al- 
though the reckless Rainaldof Chatillon, in A.D. 1182, 

! seized, and for a time held, the town. In Abulfeda’s 
day, and before A.D. 1300, it w*as already deserted. 
He says, “ In our day it is a fortress, to which a gov- 
I ernor is sent from Egypt. It had a small castle in the 
sea, but this is now abandoned, and the governor re- 
moved to the fortress on the shore.” Such as Ailah 
w r as in the days of Abulfeda, is Akabah now'. Mounds 
! of rubbish alone mark the site of the town, while a 
fortress, occupied by a governor and a small garrison 
under the pasha of Etrvpt, serves to keep the neigh- 
boring tribes of the desert in awe, and to minister to 
the wants and protection of the annual Egyptian II aj, 


EL-BETHEL 


115 


ELDEL 


or pilgrim caravan. Under the Roman rule it lost its 
former importance with the transference of its trade 
to other ports, such as Berenice, Myos Honnos, and 
Arsinoe; but in Mohammedan times it again became 
a place of some note. It is now quite insignificant. 
It lies on the route of the Egyptian pilgrim-caravan, 
and the mountain-road or ’Akabah named after it 
was improved or reconstructed by Ahmad lbn-Tulun, 
who ruled Egypt from A.D. cir. 840 to 848. This | 
place has always been an important station upon the 
route of the Egyptian Haj. Such is the importance 
of this caravan of pilgrims from Cairo to Mecca, both 
in a religions and political point of view, that the rulers 
of Egypt from the earliest period have given it convoy 
and protection. For this purpose a line of fortresses 
similar to that of Akabah has been established at inter- 
vals along the route, with wells of water and supplies 
of provisions (Robinson’s Biblical Researches , i, 250). 
The first Frank who visited this place in modern times 
was Ruppcll, in 1822 ( Reise , p. 248 sq.). Laborde (Jour- 
ney through Arabia Petrosa , London, 1836) was well re- 
ceived by the garrison and inhabitants of the castle of 
Akabah, of which he has given a view (i, 116). The 
fortress, he states, is built on a regular plan, and is in 
a pretty good condition, though within several good 
habitations have been su tiered to hill to decay. It has 
only two guns fit for service (Bartlett, Forty Days in 
the Desert, p. 99 sq.). The ancient name of the place is 
indicative of groves in the vicinity, and Strabo speaks 
of its palm-woods (xvi, 776), which appear still to sub- 
sist (Niebuhr, Besclir. p. 400; Schubert, ii, 379). — Ivit- 
to, s. v. 

El-Beth'el (lleb. El Beyth-El ' SX, God 

of Bethel ; Sept, simply BniSV/X, Vtilg. Domus Dei), the 
name given by Jaeob to the altar erected by him as a 
sanctuary (Gen. xxxv, 7), on the spot where he had 
formerly experienced the vision of the mystic ladder 
(chap, xxxi, 13 ; xxviii, 18). See Bethel. 

Elcesaites. See Elkesaites. 

El'cia (’EW«), one of the forefathers of Judith, 
and therefore belonging to the tribe of Simeon (Jnd. 
viii, 1); what Hebrew name the word represents is 
doubtful. Hilkiah is probably Chelkias, two steps 
back in the genealogy. The Syriac version has El - 
kana . In the Vulgate the names are hopelessly alter- 
ed. — Smith, s. v. 

El'daah [some Eld:iaK\ (lleb. Eldaah', HP'JSX, ' 
whom God called; Sept. ’EXdayd, 'EXcaed ; Josephus 
'EXeriff, Ant. i, 15, 1), the last-named of the five sons of 
Midian, Abraham’s son by Keturah (Gen. xxv, 4; 1 
Chron. i, 33). B.C. post 2063. 

El'dad (Heb. Eldad' , Tl'bx, whom God has loved; 
comp. TheophUus ; Sept. 'EXJdo), one of the seventy 
elders who had been appointed under Moses to assist 
in the administration of justice among the people. 
B.C. 1658. He is mentioned along with Medad, an- 
other elder, as having on a particular occasion re- 
ceived the gift of prophecy, which came upon them in 
the camp, while Moses and the rest of the elders were 
assembled around the door of the tabernacle. The 
spirit of prophecy was upon them all ; and the simple 
peculiarity in the ease of Eldad and Medad was that 
they did not bse their share in the gift, though they 
abode in the camp, but they prophesied there. It ap- 
peared, however, an irregularity to Joshua, the son of 
Nun, and seems to have suggested the idea that they 
were using the gift with a view to their own aggran- 
dizement. lie therefore entreated Moses to forbid 
them. But Moses, with characteristic magnanimity, 
replied, u Enviest thou for my sake? Would God 
that all the Lord’s people were prophets, and that the 
Lord would put his spirit upon them!” (Num. xi, 24- 
29). — Fairbairn, s. v. The great fact of the passage is 
the more general distribution of the spirit of prophecy, 
which had hitherto been concentrated in Moses ; and 


the implied sanction of a tendency to separate the ex- 
ercise of this gift from the service of the tabernacle, 
and to make it more generally available for the en- 
lightenment and instruction of the Israelites, a ten- 
dency which afterwards led to the establishment of 
“schools of the prophets.” The circumstance is in 
strict accordance with the Jewish tradition that all 
prophetic inspiration emanated originally from Moses, 
and was transmitted from him by a legitimate succes- 
sion down to the time of the captivity. The mode of 
prophecy in the case of Eldad and Medad was proba- 
bly the extempore production of hymns, chanted forth 
to the people (Hammond) ; comp, the case of Saul, 1 
Sam. x, 11. From Num. xi, 25, it appears that the 
gift was not merely intermittent, but a continuous en- 
ergy, though only occasionally developed in aetiou. — 
Smith, s. v. See Prophecy. 

Elder (properly zaken' ; 7rpecr(3vr€poc, a term 
which is plainly the origin of our word “ priest Sax- 
on preoster and preste , then jmesf, High and Low Dutch 
priest er, French prestre and pretre , Ital. prete, Span. 
jjresbytero), literally, one of the older men ; and be- 
cause, in ancient times, older persons would naturally 
be selected to hold public offices, out of regard to 
their presumed superiority in knowledge and expe- 
rience, the term came to be used as the designation 
for the office itself, borne by an individual of whatever 
age. (See Gesenins, lleb. Lex. s. v.) Such is the 
origin of the words yepovaia (a council of elders), sena- 
tus, alderman, etc. 

I. In the 0. T. — The term elder was one of extensive 
use, as an official title, among the Hebrews and the sur- 
rounding nations. It applied to various offices; Eli- 
ezer, for instance, is described as the “old man of the 
house,” i. e. the major-domo (Gen. xxiv, 2); the officers 
of Pharaoh's household (Gen. 1, 7), and, at a later period, 
David’s head servants (2 Sam. xii, 17) were so term- 
ed ; while in Ezek. xxvii, 9 the “old men of Gebal” are 
the master-workmen. But the term “elder” appears 
to be also expressive of respect and reverence in gen- 
eral, as signore , seigneur , sehor , etc. The word occurs 
in this sense in Gen. 1, 7, “Joseph went up to bury 
his father, and with him went up all the servants of 
Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of 
the land of Egypt” (Sept. rrptrrfi rrenoi, XTdg. senes'). 
These elders of Egypt were probably the various state 
officers. As betokening a political offiee, it applied 
not only to the Hebrews and Egyptians, lmt also to 
the Moabites and Midianites (Num. xxii, 7). The 
elders of Israel, of whom such frequent mention is 
made, may have been, in early times, tbe lineal de- 
scendants of the patriarchs (Exod. xii, 21). To the 
elders Moses was directed to open his commission 
(Exod. iii, 16). They accompanied Moses in his first 
interview with Pharaoh, as the representatives of the 
Hebrew nation (ver. 18) ; through them Moses issued 
his communications and commands to the whole peo- 
| pie (Exod. xix, 7 ; Deut. xxxi, 9) ; they were his im- 
! mediate attendants in all great transactions in the 
i wilderness (Exod. xvii, 5); seventy of their number 
were selected to attend Moses, Aaron, Nadab, and 
Abihu, at the giving of the law (Exod. xxiv, 1), on 
which occasion they are called the nobles ( = 
lit. deep-rooted, i. e. of high-born stock; Sept, f —<Xfv- 
ro() of the children of Israel, who did eat and drink 
before God, in ratification of the covenant, as repre- 
sentatives of the nation (ver. 11). In Num. xi, 16, 17, 
we meet with the appointment of seventy elders to 
bear the burden of the people along with Moses ; these 
were selected by Moses out of the whole number of 
the elders, and are described as being already officers 
over the children of Israel. It is the opinion of Mi- 
ch aelis that this council chosen to assist Moses should 
not be confounded with the Sanhedrim, which, he 
thinks, was not instituted till after the return from 
the Babylonish captivity. See Sanhedrim. He ob 


ELDER 


110 


ELDER 


serves tliat these seventy elders were not chosen to 
be judges of the people, who had already more than 
60,000 judges. lie also argues that the election of 
seventy additional judges would have done but little 
towards suppressing the rebellion which led Moses to 
adopt this proceeding; hut that it seems more likely 
to have been his intention to form a supreme senate 
to take a share in the government, consisting of the 
most respectable persons, either for family or merit, 
which would materially support his power and influ- 
ence among the people in general ; would unite large 
and powerful families, and give an air of aristocracy 
to his government, which had hitherto been deemed 
too monarchical. lie further infers that this council 
was not permanent, not being once alluded to from 
the death of Moses till the Babylonish captivity; that 
Moses did not fill up the vacancies occasioned by 
deaths, and that it ceased altogether in the wilderness. 
Wherever a patriarchal system is in force, the office of 
the elder will be found as the keystone of the social 
and political fabric ; it is so at the present day among 
the Arabs, where the sheik ( = the old man) is the 
highest authority in the tribe. That the title origin- 
ally had reference to age is obvious ; and age was 
naturally a concomitant of the office at all periods 
(Josh, xxiv, 31 ; 1 Kings xii, 6), even when the term 
had acquired its secondary sense. At what period the 
transition occurred, in other words, when the word elder 
acquired an official signification, it is impossible to say. 
The earliest notice of the elders acting in concert as a 
political body is at the time of the Exodus. We need 
not assume that the order was then called into exist- 
ence, but rather that Moses availed himself of an insti- 
tution already existing and recognised by his coun- 
trymen, and that, in short, “ (he elders of Israel” (Ex- 
od. iii, It] ; iv, 29) had been the senate (Sept, yipovma) 
of the people ever since they had become a people. 
The position which the elders held in the Mosaic con- 
stitution, and more particularly in relation to the peo- 
ple, is described under Congregation ; they were 
the representatives of the people, so much so that el- 
ders and people are occasionally used as equivalent 
terms (comp. Josh, xxiv, 1 with 2, 19, 21 ; 1 Sam. viii, 
4 with 7, 10, 19). Their authority was undefined, and 
extended to all matters concerning the public weal ; 
nor did the people question t lie validity of their acts, 
even when they disapproved of them (Josh, ix, 18). 
When the tribes became settled the elders were dis- 
tinguished by different titles, according as they were 
acting as national representatives (‘‘elders of Israel,” 
1 Sam. iv, 3; 1 Kings viii, 1, 3; “of the land,” 1 
Kings xx, 7; “of Judah,” 2 Kings xxiii, 1; Ezek. 
viii, 1), as district governors over the several tribes 
(Dent, xxxi, 28; 2 Sam. xix, 11), or as local magis- 
trates in the provincial towns, appointed in conformi- 
ty with Dent, xvi, 18, whose duty it was to sit in the 
gate and administer justice (Dent, xix, 12; xxi, 3 sq. ; 
xxii, 15 ; Until i v, 9, 1 1 ; 1 Kings xxi, 8 ; .1 udg. x, 6) : 
their number and influence may be inferred from 1 
Sam. xxx, 2G sq. They retained their position under 
all the political changes which the Jews underwent: 
under the judges (Judg. ii, 7 ; viii, 14; xi, 5; 1 Sam. 
iv, 3 ; viii, 4) ; in the time of Samuel (1 Sam. xvi, 4) ; 
under Saul (1 Sam. xxx, 2G), David (1 Chron. xxi, 
1G), and the later kings (2 Sam. xvii, 4 : 1 Kings xii, 
G; xx, 8; xxi, 11); during the captivity (Jer. xxix, 
1; Ezek. viii, 1 ; xiv, 1 ; xx, 1); subsequently to the 
return (Ezra v, 5; vi, 7, 14; x, 8, 14); under the 
Maccabees, when they were described sometimes as 
the senate (ytpovoia ; 1 Mace, xii, 6; 2 Mace, i, 10; 
iv, 41 ; xi, 27 ; Josephus, Ant. xii, 3, 3), sometimes by 
their ordinary title (1 Maec. vii, 33; xi, 23; xii, 35); 
and, lastly, at the commencement of the Christian icra, 
when they are noticed as a distinct body from the San- 
hedrim, hut connected with-it as one outlie classes 
whence its members were selected, and always acting 
in conjunction with it and the other dominant classes. 


See Council. Thus they are associated sometimes 
with the chief priests (Matt, xxi, 23), sometimes with 
the chief priests and the scribes (Matt, xvi, 21), or the 
council (Matt, xxvi, 59), always taking an active part 
in the management of public affairs. Luke describes 
the whole order hv the collective term Trofc/iuriyoioi', 
i. e. eldership (Luke xxii, GG ; Acts xxii, 5). Like 
the scribes, they obtained their seat in the Sanhedrim 
by election, or nomination from the executive author- 
ity. — Smith, s. v. ; lvitto, s. v. See Age. 

II. In the Xew Testament and in the Apostolical 
Church. — In the article Bishop (i, 818 sq.), the origin 
and functions of the eldership in the X.T. and in the 
early Church are treated at some length, especially 
with regard to the question of the original identity of 
bishops and presbyters (or elders). Deferring our read- 
ers to that discussion, we add here the following points. 

1. Origin of the Office. — No specific account of the 
: origin of the eldership in the Christian Church is given 

in the N. T. “ The demand for it arose, no doubt, 
very early; as, notwithstanding the wider diffusion 
of gifts not restricted to office, provision was to be 
made plainly for the regular and fixed instruction and 
conduct of the rapidly multiplying churches. The 
historical pattern for it was presented in the Jewish 
synagogue, namely, in the college or bench of elders 
(jrptoiiurtnut, Luke vii, 3 ; dp\wcvciy(t)yo\, Mark v, 
22; Acts xiii, 15), who conducted the functions of 
public worship, prayer, reading, and exposition of the 
Scriptures. S\ r e meet Christian presbyters for the 
first time (Acts xi, 30) at Jerusalem, on the occasion 
of the collection sent from the Christians of Antioch 
for the relief of their brethren in Jiulaea. From thence 
the institution passed over not only to all the Jewish- 
Christian churches, but to those also which were plant- 
' ed among the Gentiles. From the example of the 
household of Stephanas at Corinth (1 Cor. xvi, 15) we 
see that the first converts (the d7rap\at) ordinarily 
were chosen to this office, a fact expressly confirmed 
also bv Clemens Romanus” (1 Cor. c. xiii). Seliaff, in 
Meth. Quart. Iter. Oct. 1851 ; Apostolic Church , § 182. 
“ The creation of the office of elder is nowhere record- 
ed in the X. T., as in the case of deaeons and apostles, 
because the latter offices were created to meet new and 
1 special emergencies, while the firmer was transmitted 
from the earliest times. In other words, the office of 
elder was the only permanent essential office of the Church 
under either dispensation ” ( Princeton Review, xix, Gl). 
The Jewish eldership, according to this view, was 
tacitly transferred from the Old Dispensation to the 
j New, without express or formal institution, except in 
Gentile churches, where no such office had a previous 
existence (comp. Acts xi, 30; xiv, 23). 

2. Functions of the Elders. — The “elders” of the X. 

I T. Church were plainly the ‘‘pastors” (Fph. iv, 11), 

“bishops, or overseers” (Acts xx, 28, etc.); “load- 
ers” and rulers” (Deb. xiii, 7 ; 1 Thess. v, 12, etc.) of 
the flock. But they were not only leaders and rulers, 
but also the “regular teachers of the congregation, to 
whom pertained officially the exposition of the Scrip- 
tures, the preaching of the Gospel, and the administra- 
tion of the sacraments. That this function was closely 
connected with the other is apparent, even from the 
conjunction of ‘pastors and teachers,’ Eph. iv, 11, 
where the terms, as wc have already seen, denote the 
same persons. The same association of ruling and 
teaching occurs Hob. xiii, 7 : 4 1’einember them which 
have the rule over you (jiyovjuvoi), who have spoken 
unto you the word of God ( oi-irtc t\d\t]<rav vph' rbv 
Xdyor -or Oeor\ whose faith follow, considering the 
end of their conversation’ (comp. ver. 17). Especially 
decisive, however, are the instructions of the pastoral 
epistles, where. Paul, among the requirements for the 
presbyterate, in addition to a blameless character and 
a talent for business and government, expressly men- 
tions also ability to teach (1 Tim. iii, 2) : ‘A bishop must 
be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, 


ELDER 


m 


ELDER 


of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach ’ 
(utWrocor), etc. ; so also Tit. i, 0, where it is required 
of a bishop that he shall 4 hold fast the faithful word 
as lie hath been taught (avTt\opivov rov k-citci rt)v 
Cicaxijv tticftov Aoyou), that he may be able by sound 
doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsay- 
ers’ ” (SchafF, l. <?.). It is not improbable (indeed, sev- 
eral passages in the New Test, seem clearly to favor 
the notion) that many persons were ordained elders in 
the apostolical age who were not, and could not be, 
separated from their temporal occupations. “At first, 
those who held office in the Church continued, in all 
probability, to exercise their former trades for a live- 
lihood. The churches would scarcely be able (as they 
were mostly poor) to provide stipends at first for their 
pastors” (Neander). Nevertheless, men specially call- 
ed and fitted for the work, and devoted to it, were enti- 
tled by the Christian law, as set forth by the apostles, 
to be supported by the people ; but there was no dis- 
tinction of rank, honor, or authority between those 
elders who had stipends and those who had none, un- 
less, indeed, the latter, who, following Paul's example, 
“worked with their own hands” that they might not 
be chargeable to the churches, were held in greater 
honor for the time. The principle that full ministerial 
title may stand apart from stipend is fully recognised 
in modern times in the system of local preachers (q. v.) 
in the Methodist Episcopal Church (see Steward, On 
Church Government , Lond. 1853, p. 128). 

“After the pattern of the synagogues, as well as of 
the political administration of cities, which from of old 
was vested in the hands of a senate or college of decurio- 
nes, every church had a number of presbyters. We meet 
them everywhere in the plural and as a corporation : 
at Jerusalem, Acts xi, 30; xv. 4, G, 23; xxi, 18 ; at Eph- 
esus, xx, 17, 28 ; at Philippi, Phil, i, 1 ; at the ordina- 
tion of Timothy. 1 Tim. iv, 14, where mention is made 
of the laying on of the hands of the presbytery ; and in 
the churches to which James wrote, James v. 14: 4 Is 
any sick among you ? let him call for the presbyters of 
the congregation , and let them pray over him,’ etc. 
This is implied also by the notice (Acts xiv, 23) that 
Paul and Barnabas ordained elders for every church, 
several of them of course ; and still more clearly by 
the direction given to Titus (Tit. i, 5) to ordain eld- 
ers, that is, a presbytery of such otlicers, in every city 
of Crete. Some learned men, indeed, have imagined 
that the arrangement in the larger cities included sev- 
eral congregations, while, however, each of these had 
but one elder or bishop ; that the principle of congre- 
gational polity thus from the beginning w'as neither 
democratic nor aristocratic, but monarchical. But this 
view is contradicted by the passages just quoted, in 
which the presbyters appear as a college, as well as 
by the associative tendency which entered into the 
very life of Christians from the beginning. The house- 
hold congregations (tKicXjjaiai tear oiicor'), which arc 
often mentioned and greeted (Rom. xvi, 4, 5, 14, 15 ; 
1 Cor. xvi, 19; Col. iv, 15; Philem. 2), indicate mere- 
ly the fact that where the Christians had become very 
numerous they were accustomed to meet for edifica- 
tion at different places, and by no means exclude the 
idea of their organized union as a whole, or of their 
being governed by a common body of presbj'ters. 
Hence, accordingly, the apostolical epistles also are 
never addressed to a separate part, an ecclesiola in ec- 
cle si a, a conventicle, but always to the whole body of 
Christians at Rome, at Corinth, at Ephesus, at Philip- 
pi, at Thcssalonica, etc., treating them in such case as 
a moral unity (comp. 1 Thess. i, 1 ; 2 Thess. i, 1 ; 1 
Cor. i, 2 ; v, 1 sq. ; 2 Cor. i, 1, 23; ii, 1 sq. ; Col. iv, 
1G; Phil, i, 1, etc.). Whether a full parity reigned 
among these collegiate presbyters, or whether one, 
say the eldest, constantly presided over the rest, or 
whether, finally, one followed another in sueh presi- 
dency as primus inter pares by some certain rotation, 
cannot be decisively determined from the N. T The 


analogy of the Jewish synagogue leads here to no en- 
tirely sure result, since it is questionable whether a 
particular presidency belonged to its eldership as early 
as the time of Christ. Some sort of presidency, in- 
deed, would seem to be almost indispensable for any 
well-ordered government and the regular transaction 
of business, and is thus beforehand probable in the 
case of these primitive Christian presbyteries, only 
the particular form of it we have no means to deter- 
mine” (SchafF, l. c.). 

III. In the early Church ( post-apostolic ). — Very soon 
after the apostolic age the episcopacy arose, first in the 
congregational form, afterwards in the diocesan epis- 
copacy. See Episcopacy. I T ntil the full develop- 
ment>of the latter, elders or presbyters were the high- 
est order of ministers. No trace of ruling elders, in 
the modern sense, is to be found in the early Church. 
There was a class of seniores ecclesie in the African 
Church, whom some writers have supposed to corre- 
spond to the ruling elder ; but Bingham clearly shows 
the contrary. The name occurs in the writings of 
Augustine and Optatus. In the Diocletian persecu- 
tion, when Mensurius was compelled to leave his 
church, he committed the ornaments and utensils to 
sueh of the elders as he could trust, jidelibus senioribus 
commendahit (Optatus, lib. 1, p. 41). In the works of 
Optatus there is a tract called “ the Purgation of Felix 
and Caecilian,” where is mention of these seniores. 
Augustine inscribes one of his epistles, Clero, seniori- 
bus ^ et universes plebi ; 44 To the clergy, the elders, and 
all the people” ( Epist . 137). According to Bingham, 
some of these seniores were the civil optimafes (magis- 
trates, aldermen); the Council of Carthage (A.D. 403) 
speaks of magistratus vel seniores locorum. Others 
were called seniores ecclesiastic /, and had care of the 
utensils, treasures, etc., of the church, and correspond 
to modern churchwardens or trustees (Bingham, Orig. 
Eceles. bk. ii, eh. xix, § 19; Hitchcock, in Amer. Presb. 
Review, April, 18G8). 

IV. In the modern Church. — 1. In the Roman Cath- 
olic Church, the Church of England, and the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church, the word “priest” is generally 
used instead of 44 presbyter” or 44 elder” to designate 
the second order of ministers (the three orders being 
bishops, priests, and deacons). See Presbyter; 
Priest. 

2. In the Methodist Episcopal Church but two orders 
of ministers are recognised, viz. ciders and deacons, 
the bishop being chosen as primus inter jiarcs, or su- 
perintendent. See Episcopac y. For the election, 
ordination, duties, etc., of elders, see the Discipline of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church , pt. ii. eh. ii, § 15, and 
pt. iv, ch. vi, § 2. The presiding elder is appointed by 
the bishop, once in four years, to superintend a dis- 
trict. For the nature and functions of this office, see 
Presiding Elder. 

3. Among Congregationalists, the only Church offi- 
cers now known are elders (or ministers) and deacons. 
Ruling elders were recognised in the Cambridge plat- 
form (q. v.), and their duties particularly pointed out ; 
but neither the office itself nor the reasons hy which it 
was supported were long approved. Ruling elders 
never were universal in Congregationalism, and the of- 
fice was soon everywhere rejected (Upham, Ratio Dis - 
ciplince, 1844, § 38*39; Dexter, On CungregationaUsni). 

4. Among Presbyterian churches (i. o. all which 
adopt the Presbyterian form of government, whether 
designated by that name or not) there are generally 
two classes of elders, teaching and ruling elders. The 
teaching elders constitute the body of pastors ; the rul- 
ing elders are laymen, who are set apart as assistants 
to the minister in the oversight and ruling of the llock. 
Together with the minister, they constitute 44 the Ses- 
sion,” the lowest judicatory in the Church. See Pres- 
byterian Church. They cannot administer the sac- 
raments, but aid at the Lord’s Supper by distributing 
the elements to the communicants. 


ELDEF 


118 


ELDER 


1. In Scotland, ruling ciders constitute, with the 
ministers, the “Kirk Session.” The Form of Govern- 
ment annexed to the Confession of Faith asserts that 
“ as there were in the Jewish Church elders of the peo- 
ple, joined with the priests and Levites in the govern- 
ment of the Church, so Christ, who hath instituted 
government and governors ecclesiastical in the Church, 
besides the ministers of the Word, w ith gifts for gov- 
ernment, and with commission to execute the same 
when called thereunto, who are to join with the minis- 
ter in the government of the Church, which officers 
reformed churches commonly call elders .” “These 
elders are chosen from among the members, and are 
usually persons of tried character. After their accept- 
ance of office, the minister, in the presence of the con- 
gregation, sets them apart to their office by prayer, 
and sometimes bv imposition of hands, and concludes 
the ceremony of ordination with exhorting both elders 
and people to discharge their respective duties. They 
have no right to teach or to dispense the sacraments. 
‘They generally discharge the office, which originally 
belonged to the deacons, of attending to the interests 
of the poor; but their peculiar function is expressed 
by the name “ruling elders;” for in every question 
of jurisdiction they are the spiritual court of which the 
minister is officially moderator, and in the presbytery 
— of which the pastors within the bounds are officially 
members — the elders sit as the representatives of the 
several sessions or consistories’ (Hill's Theolog. Jnstit. 
pt. ii, sec. ii, p. 171). In the Established Church of 
►Scotland elders are nominated by the Session, but in 
unestablished bodies they are freely chosen by the 
people” (Eadie, Feel. Cyclop, s. w). The United Pres- 
byterian Church has the following rules on the subject : 
“ 1. The right of electing elders is vested solely in the 
members of the congregation who are in full commu- 
nion. ! 2 . No fixed number of elders is required, but 
two, along with the minister, arc required to constitute 
a Session. 3. When the Session judge it expedient that 
an addition should be made to their number, the first 
step is to call a meeting of the congregation for the 
purpose of electing the required number. ... 6, At the 
meeting for election a discourse is generally delivered 
suitable to the occasion. Full opportunity is first of 
all given to the members to propose candidates. The 
names are then read over, and, after prayer, the votes 
arc taken, and the individuals having the greatest ; 
number of votes are declared to be duly elected. 7. 
After the election the call of the congregation is inti- 
mated to the elders elect, and on their acceptance the 
►Session examines into their qualifications, and, if sat- 
isfied, orders an edict to be read in the church. 8. At 
the time mentioned in the edict, which must be read 
on two Sabbath days, the Session meets, the elders 
elect being present. After the Session is constituted, 1 
if no objections are brought forward, the day of ordina- 
tion is fixed. If objections are made, the Session pro- 
ceeds to inquire into and decide on them. 9. On the 
day of ordination, the moderator calls on the elders 
elect to stand forward, and puts to them the questions 
of the formula. Satisfactory answers being given, 
the minister proceeds to ordain or set them apart by 
prayer to the office of ruling elder. Immediately af- 
terwards the right hand of fellowship is given to the 
persons thus ordained by the minister and by the other 
elders present, and the whole is followed by suitable 
exhortations” (Eadie, s. v.). 

2. The Form of Government of the Presbyterian 
Church in the United States (hk. i, ch. v) contains the 
following: “ Killing elders are properly the represent- 
atives of the people, chosen by them for the purpose 
of exercising government and discipline, in conjunc- 
tion with pastors or ministers. This office has been 
understood, by a great part of the Protestant reformed 
churches, to be designated in the holy Scriptures by 
the title of governments, and of those udfo rule w*eli, 
but do not labor in the w'ord and doctrine” (1 Cor. xii, 


28). Chap, xiii gives the rules for the election and 
ordination of ruling elders. Each congregation elects 
“according to the mode most approved and in use in 
that congregation and the w hole procedure is very 
similar to that of the U. P. Church recited above. 
The ordination is “by prayer” and the “right hand 
of fellowship,” not by imposition of hands. The ofiice 
is perpetual. The elders, with the pastor, constitute 
the Session ; one elder from each church is a member 
of Presbytery and Synod ; and one for every twenty- 
four ministers in each presbytery is sent to the General 
Assembly. 

In the Reformed Church the elders are chosen for 
two years only, by the congregation or by the Con- 
sistory ( Constitution of the Ref. Dutch Church, ch. i, art. 
iii). They are entitled to membership in Classis and 
Synod as delegates ( Constitution , ch. ii, art. iii). There 
is a form given in the book for their ordination, with- 
out imposition of hands. So also in the new liturgy 
prepared for the German Reformed Church. 

3. Ruliny Elders. — The distinction between teach- 
ing and ruling elders originated with Calvin, and has 
diffused itself very widely among the churches which 
adopt the Presbyterian form of government ; and the 
authority of the N. T. is claimed for it (see above, 2) 
in the Presbyterian “ Form of Government” (hk. i, ch. 
v) ; in the Reformed Church Form of Ordination 
(Constit. p. 118); in the Lutheran Church Formula of 
Government (ch. iii, § G). The Congregationalists of 
New' England admitted this distinction for a while 
(see above), but soon abandoned it. 

Calvin ( Institutes , bk. iv, chap, iii, § 8) seeks a 
scriptural basis for lay eldership as follows: “Gov- 
ernors (1 Cor. xii, 2) I apprehend to have been per- 
sons of advanced years, selected from the people fro 
unite with the bishops in giving admonition, and ex- 
ercising discipline. No other interpretation can be 
given of ‘ He that ruleth, let him do it with diligence’ 
(Rom. xii, 8). . . . Now' that this w'as not the regula- 
tion of a single age expeiiencc itself demonstrates.” 
This passage, how'ever, occurs first in the 3d edition 
of the Institutes , 1543 ; it is not found in the editions 
of 1530 or 1539. The office of lay elders had existed 
before among the Unitas Fratrum , who W'erc supposed 
to have borrow'ed it from the Waldo nses ; but these 
lay elders w r ere only trustees or churchwardens. Cal- 
vin himself organized a lay eldership in Geneva, to be 
elected yearly, and seems aftenvards to have sought 
a scriptural warrant for it. In so doing he formed a 
novel theory, viz. that of a twofold eldership. “ This 
cardinal assumption of a dued preshyterate was contro- 
verted by Blondel, himself a Presbyterian, in 1G48, 
and again in 1G9G by Vitringa, who, as Rothe says in 
his Anfunge , ‘routed from the field this phantom of 
apostolic lay elders.’ Even the Westminster Assem- 
bly, when, in 1G13, it debated the question of Church 
government, as it did for nearly four weeks, was care- 
ful not to commit itself to Calvin’s theory of lay pres- 
byters, refused to call them rilling elders, and in its 
final report in 1G44 spoke of them as ‘other Church 
governors,’ ‘which reformed churches commonly call 
elders .’ Calvin’s theory has also been controverted by 
James P. Wilson in his Primitive Government of Chris- 
tian Churches (1833), and by Thomas Smyth in his 
Xante, Nature, and Functions of Ruling Elders (1845). 
The drift of critical opinion is now decidedly in this 
direction. It is beginning to be conceded, even among 
Presbyterians of the staunchest sort, that Calvin was 
mistaken in his interpretation of 1 Tim. v, 17 ; that 
two orders of presbyters are not there brought to view, 
but only one order, the difference referred to being 
simply that of service, and not of rank. And if this 
famous passage fails to justify the dual preshyterate , 
much loss may we relv upon the b Trpdiorafitvog, tv 
arrovetj, ‘he that ruleth with diligence,’ of Rom. xii, 
8, or the Kvfienvtjoetg^ ‘ governments,’ of 1 Cor. xii, 28. 

J n short, the jure divino theory of the lay eldership is 


ELEAD 


119 


ELEATIC SCHOOL 


steadily losing ground. A better support is sought 
for it in the New-Testamcnt recognition throughout of 
the right and propriety of lay participation in Church 
government; in the general right of the Church, as 
set forth by Hooker in his Ecclesiastical Polity , to gov- 
ern itself by whatsoever forms it pleases, provided the 
great end of government be answered; and in the 
proved fitness and efficiency of our present Presbyte- 
rian polity, as compared either with prelacy on the 
one side, or Congregationalism on the other” (Hitch- 
cock, in Am. Presb. Pev. 1808, p. 255). Dr. Thornwell 
{Southern Presb. Review, 1859; Spirit of the XIXth 
Cmfury , Dec. 1843; reprinted in Southern Presb. Rev. 
July, 1807) sets forth a peculiar theory of the divine 
right of the ruling eldership, viz. that the ruling elder 
is the presbyter of the N. T., whose only function was 
to rule, while the preachers were generally selected 
from the class of elders. This view is also maintained 
by Breckinridge {Knowledge of God , subjectively con- 
sidered , p G29) ; and is refuted by Dr. Smyth, Prince- 
ton Review, vol. xxxiii (see also Princeton Review , xv, 
313 sq.). Principal Campbell {Theory of Ruling Elder- 
ships, Edinb. and Loud. I860) aims to show that “el- 
der” in the N. T. always means pastor, and never 
means the modern “ruling elder” (see Brit, and For. 
Evan. Review , Jan. 1808, p. 222). He shows that the 
Westminster Assembly, after a long discussion, re- 
fused to sanction Calvin’s view; but he seeks to find 
lay ciders, under another name, in Pom. xii, 8 ; 1 Cor. 
xii, 28, etc., and also in early Church History. For a 
criticism of his view, and a luminous statement of the 
whole subject of lay eldership, with a conclusive proof 
that there is no trace of it in the N. T., see Dr. Hitch- 
cock’s article in the A mer. Presb. Revieic, April, 18G8, 
p. 253 sq. See also an able critical and historical dis- 
cussion of the subject in Dexter, Congregationalism 
(Boston, 1805), p. 120 sq. The scriptural right of lay 
elders is maintained in The divine Right of Church Gov- 
ernment, with Dr. Owen's Argument in favor of Ruling 
Elders (New York, 1844, 12mo); in Miller, On Ruling 
Elders (Presb. Board, 18mo). See also King, Elder- 
ship in the Christian Church (N. Y. 1851) ; Muhlenberg, 
On the Office of Riding Elders; MTverrow, Office of 
Ruling Elders (London, 1840) ; Engles, Duties of Ruling 
Elders (Presb. Board) ; Smyth, Name, Nature, and 
Functions of Ruling Elders (N. Y. 1845, 12mo) ; Bing- 
ham, Orig. Eccles. bk. ii, eh. xx, § 19 ; Gieseler, Church 
History , vol. i, § 29; Neander, Planting and Training, 
bk. i, eh. ii ; Davidson, Keel. Polity of N. T. ; Watson, 
Theol. Institutes, pt. iv, eh. i ; Schaff, Apostolic Church, 
§ 132, 133 ; Bothe, Avfange cl. christlichen Kirche, § 28, 
29 ; Bilson, Perpetual Government of Christ's Church ; 
Owen, Bor/.s (Edinb. 1851), xv, 504. 

E'lead (Heb. Find ', “iAn;, whom God has applaud- 
ed ; Sept. 'EAfdJ, V ulg. Elad), a descendant of Ephra- 
im (1 Chron. vii, 21), but whether through Shuthelah 
(q. v.), or a son of the patriarch (the second Shuthelah 
being taken as a repetition of the first, and Ezer and 
Elead as his brothers), is not determined (see Ber- 
theau, Comment, zu Ckronik, p. 82). B.C. post 1850. 
Perhaps he is the same with Eladaii (q. v.) in the 
preceding verse, who appears to have survived, if iden- 
tical with Euan (Nuni. xxvi, 30). 

Elea'leh (Heb. Elaleh', ri'bybx, whither God has 
ascended , once Elale' , Nnm. xxxii, 37 ; Sept. 

’ E\ea\rj ), a place on the east of Jordan, in the pastoral 
country, taken possession of and rebuilt bv the tribe 
of Beuben (Nuni. xxxii, 3, 37). We lose sight of it till 
the time of Isaiah and Jeremiah, by both of whom it 
is mentioned as a Moabitish town, and, as before, in 
close connection with Heshbon (Isa. xv, 4 ; xvi, 9; 
Jer. xlviii, 34). It apparently lay close to the border 
of Beuben and Gad (Josh, xiii, 20). On the decline 
of Jewish power, Elealeh, with the whole Mishor, fell 
into the hands of the Moabites, and is thus included in 


the woes pronounced by Isaiah on Moab (xvi, 9) : “1 
will water thee with my tears, O Heshbon aiul Elea- 
leh ; for the alarm is fallen upon thy summer fruits, 
and th}’’ harvest.” Elealeh was still a large village 
in the time of Eusebius and Jerome, one mile from 
Heshbon {Onomcist. s. v. ’EAfriAs, Eleale). The ex- 
tensive ruins of the place are still to be seen, bearing 
very nearly their ancient name, El-A'al, though with 
a modern signification, “the high,” a little more than 
a mile north of Heshbon (Bobinson,iiYse«rcAps, ii, 278). 
It stands on the summit of a rounded hill commanding 
a very extended view of the plain, and the whole of 
the southern Belka (Burekhardt, Syria, p. 305; Seet- 
zen, 1854, p. 407). The whole surrounding plain is 
now desolate. The statements of all travellers who 
have visited it show how fully the prophetic curses 
have been executed (Irby and Mangles, 1st ed. p. 471 ; 
Bitter, Pal. mid Syr. ii, 1172; G. liobinson’s Palest . 
and Syr. ii, 180 sq.). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Ele'asa (’EAfoua, Alex. MS. ’AAacra; Yulg. La- 
isa ), a place at which Judas Maecabams encamped be- 
fore the fatal battle with Bacehides, in which he lost 
his life (1 Mace, ix, 5). It was apparently not far 
from Azotus (comp. ver. 15). Josephus {Ant. xii, 11, 
1) has Bethzetho (Ib/S^/c^O), by which lie elsewhere 
renders Bezeth. But this may be but a corrupt read- 
ing of Berzetha or Bethzetha, which is found in some 
MSS. for Berea in 1 Mace, ix, 4. Elsewhere (Bar, i, 
1, 0), however, Josephus states that Judas lost his life 
in a battle with the generals of Autioehus Eupator at 
Adasa (q. v.), which is probably the correct reading 
here, since Adasa was where Judas had encamped on 
a former memorable occasion (1 Macc. vii, 40). It is 
singular that Bezeth should be mentioned in this con- 
nection also (see verse 19). — Smith, s. v. 

Ele'asah [man}" ElcasKW], the name (in the A. 
X r .) of two men (1 Chron. ii, 39 ; viii, 37 ; ix. 4‘ ), iden- 
tical (in the Heb.) with that of two others (.b r. xxix, 
3; Ezra x, 22), more properly Anglicized Elasaii 
(q. v.). 

Eleatic School, the designation given to an early 
and brilliant sect of Greek philosophers. The name 
was bestowed in consequence of the residence or birth 
of the chiefs of the school at Elea or Velia, a town on 
the western coast of Italy, founded in 544 by the Pho- 
easans, who abandoned their Ionian home rather than 
submit to the arms of Cyrus. The general character- 
istic of this type of speculation is the maintenance of 
a broad and irreconcilable distinction between the ap- 
parent and the intellectual universe — between transi- 
tory phenomena and eternal truth. It is thus con- 
trasted with the earlier Ionic School, which assumed 
material principles as the origin of the world, and with 
the Pythagorean School, which assigned a mathemat- 
ical basis for the creation. But it exhibited several 
points of contact with these more ancient doctrines, 
and hence both Empedocles and Democritus are some- 
times enumerated among the Eleatics. In its wider 
acceptation, the Eleatic philosophy includes the pan- 
theistic idealism of Xenophanes and Parmenides, and 
the sceptical materialism of Leucippus and Epicurus, 
embracing both extremes of metaphysical thought. 
It may thus he distributed into two main divisions : 

I. The Eleatic School proper, which asserted a di- 
vine unity to be the origin and essence of all things, 
regarded multiplicity as only the manifestation of the 
incessant activity of this divine unity, considered all 
change as merely phenomenal, and all temporal facts 
as only the transitory and deceitful shows of things, 
believing that the only true existence was the one in- 
discrete divine Essence, which underlay, determined, 
animated, and enclosed the whole sensible and intelli- 
gible order of the universe. 

II. The Atomistic or Epicurean School, which con- 
fined attention to the earthly and material side of the 
problem, not denying the immaterial and spiritual, but 


ELEATIC SCHOOL 


120 


ELEATIC SCHOOL 


renouncing it as unattainable. Its position may be 
appreciated by comparing it with the modern schemes 
of Moleschott, Herbert Spencer, and Comte. It took 
note only of the temporal and perishable side of the 
universe, and established a foundation for its reason- 
ings by supposing the eternity and indestructibility of 
the elementary constituents of matter. 

Kg a a immortali primordia corpore debent, 

Disflolvi quo quai pie supremo tempore possint, 

Mat erics ut suppaditet rebus reparanrieU. 

Thus tlie two branches of the school, or the two 
schools, starting from the same point, but pursuing di- 
vergent courses, arrived at exactly opposite conclu- 
sions. The Eleatics disregarded the sensible, the Epi- 
cureans the divine element; the former contemplated 
the imperishable, the latter the perishable aspeets of 
the universe. But neither denied what they re- 
nounced. In the present article, the Eleatic School 
proper will alone be considered ; for a notice of the 
other branch, reference is made to the title Epicurean 
Philosophy. 

History of the Eleatic Philosophy. — The shadowy and 
impalpable character of the Eleatic doctrine renders it 
peculiarly difficult of determination, because it admits 
of many modifications, and of a great variety of expo- 
sitions and limitations. Another difficulty arises from 
the fact that the sources of our knowledge are confined 
to a few metrical fragments of Xenophanes and Par- 
menides, to the statements of their adversaries, Plato 
and Aristotle, to Diogenes Laertius, who is hv no 
means a reliable witness, and to a few other relics of 
antiquity. There is, consequently, more uncertainty 
in regard to the tenets of this school, and to the inter- 
pretation given to them by their advocates, than in 
regard to any other of the Greek sects except the Py- 
thagorean, After all the diligence of Fiilleborn, Bran- 
dis, Karsten, Cousin, and other inquirers, there is much 
doubt whether we are ascribing to the Eleatic leaders 
positions which they deliberate! v hold, or are imposing 
our own conjectural interpretations upon their doc- 
trines. The general complexion of the school is, how- 
ever, readily recognized. 

The Eleatic School is rather united by a common 
principle than by agreement in the application of the 
principle (v. Aristotle, Metaphysicct , i, v). Eaeli distin- 
guished philosopher of the sect creates his own scheme, 
and differs in procedure and in doctrine from the rest : 
lienee it is impracticable to give any general exposi- 
tion which will be true for its whole development, and 
it therefore becomes necessary to consider the peculiar 
modifications which it assumed in the hands of its suc- 
cessive teachers. The principal expounders of the 
Eleatic philosophy were Xenophanes, Parmenides, 
Zeno, and Melipus: the first of these was its founder. 
The period during which the}’ flourished may be con- 
sidered to extend over the century preceding the Pelo- 
ponnesian War. But the chronological data are con- 
fused and uncertain. 

Xenophanes. — Xenophanes of Colophon, in Asia Mi- 
nor, an exile from his native land, migrated to Sicily, 
and may have resided in Elea, whose foundation he 
celebrated in verse. The dates are uncertain ; but 
Cousin, in an elaborate essay, fixes his birth in the 
40th Olympiad (B.C. 620-616), and he lived nearly a 
century. His philosophy was presented in a metrical 
form in his poem On Xature , of which fragments re- 
main. though they are too broken and obscure to give 
any clear revelation of his tenets. Ilis leading doc- 
trines, as far as they can now be ascertained, appear 
to have constituted an indistinct, confused, and unde- 
veloped idealism, remarkable at the period of their 
introduction, hut requiring expansion and rectification 
before they could he arranged in any harmonious sys- 
tem. They are rather germs of thought than precise 
principles. They needed the ..acute logical intellect 
of Parmenides to give them consistency, as the So- 
cratic speculations received definite form from Plato. 


Parmenides probably deviated as far from the simple 
reveries of Xenophanes as Plato did from the practical 
maxims of Socrates. Xenophanes apparently adopted 
from Pythagoras, either directly or indirectly, the con- 
viction that there must he an ultimate term of being, 
which was not the sensible universe, but the divine 
intelligence. But Pythagoras distinguished between 
God and nature; while Xenophanes, by exaggerating, 
confused this distinction, and resolved everything into 
a single divine essence. He denied all beginning, 
and therefore denied that anything eonkl become what 
it had not always been. The doctrine ex nihilo nihil 
fit had with him a broader and deeper significance 
than it received from Epicurus, and his Boman expos- 
itor, Lucretius. If nothing commences and nothing 
becomes, then all tilings arc eternal, and all things 
are one. The unity of the Godhead is thus asserted 
against polytheism; the individuality of the Deity 
against the dualism of conflicting forces. This antag- 
onism to the current creed and prevalent speculations 
is developed in his attacks on Homer, Hesiod, and the 
whole Hellenic mythology, and by his earnest repudia- 
tion of all anthropomorphism. The substantial reality 
of the sensible world is necessarily rejected: God and 
the universe are identified, and a close approximation 
is made to Spinozism, though not without essential 
differences. The only reality is the divine intelli- 
gence, av{.nravTa re eivea vovv Kai tttpovijmv (Diogenes 
Laert. ix, xix). Everything cognizable by the human 
senses represents merely the accidents and shows of 
things. The sensible world is in an unceasing flux, 
but the divine essence is unchanging, unchangeable, 
unmoving, incapable of being moved, impassive, eter- 
nal, infinite, though possessing spherical dimensions, 
uneoni pounded, one (eiidiov-u7reipov-’7riiv-dv-ev-id- 
rptov-dKinjTov-dimdvvov-avdXyijror-avooov-ovre 
erepoiovfievoif ewei,ovre fnyvvjxevov liWo), Aristot. De 
Xenoph. i : “unam esse omnia, neque id esse inutabile, 
et id esse Deum, neque natuni umquam, et sempiter- 
num, conglobata figura,” Cicero, Acacl.Pr. ii, xxxvii.). 
All change is but apparent — the restless play of colors 
on the surface of the immutable Existence — the inces- 
sant agitation of the waves on the bosom of the bound- 
less and unalterable deep. There is no denial of the 
actuality of sensible facts and changes; there is a de- 
nial of their reality ; they are shadows of the eternal, 
the mists and vapors that disguise and conceal the in- 
finite One. 

Unquestionably there are contradictions involved 
in this scheme, but the acceptance of antinomies is one 
of the most striking characteristics of the doctrines of 
Xenophanes. Naturally and necessarily he is brought 
to declare all things incomprehensible. Certain knowl- 
edge is thus impossible ; ail truth evaporates into opin- 
ion ; scepticism is introduced — the scepticism which 
disregards the sensible as a delusion — the scepticism 
which excludes the eternal and the divine as unintel- 
ligible, or the scepticism which regards truth as unat- 
tainable. Thus tlie fundamental positions of the Ele- 
atics prognosticate the age of the Sophists, and the 
theories of the Epicureans the Pyrrhonists and the 
Neo-Platonists. 

It is not easy to discover the exact mode in which 
Xenophanes interpreted the order of the sensible crea- 
tion. The remarkable feature in his cosmogony is 
that he anticipated geology, and made it the basis of 
some of his deductions. lie thus contributed to sci- 
ence the commencements of that marvellous investi- 
gation, as Pythagoras contributed the theory of the 
geometrical harmonies of the universe, and divined 
the Copernican system. It may appear a remarkable 
incongruity that, after identifying God and the uni- 
verse, and assorting the infinity, immutability, and 
eternity of the divine existence, Xenophanes and Par- 
menides should both have held the periodicity of tlie 
destruction of the world — the former by water, the lat- 
ter by fire. This conclusion may have been suggested 


ELEATIC SCHOOL 


121 


ELEATIC SCHOOL 


to the earlier philosopher by the fossil remains which 
he recognised as aqueous deposits; but it also results 
from the dogma that all things are in a perpetual flux 
except the one eternal existence. The phenomena 
change recurrently, the One remains unchanged. 

The Eleatic philosophy, in its first enunciation, was 
a crude idealism, extravagant in expression, if moder- 
ate in design. It was an anxious attempt to unite 
the operation of the omnipotence, omnipresence, and 
unity of the divine Intelligence with the recognition 
of his continual support and government of the cre- 
ation. It was a protest alike against the vain ab- 
stractions, the materialistic tendencies, and the poly- 
theistic creed of the Hellenic world; but in the en- 
deavor to avoid popular and philosophical errors, it fell 
into the opposite extreme, and became in tendency, 
though not in purpose, distinctly pantheistic. It is 
impossible to explain the connection between the Cre- 
ator and the creation — the distinction and the union of 
the intelligible and the sensible universe. To these 
heights the mind of man cannot soar. There is a truth 
of things sensible and a truth of things spiritual. 
Neither can be safely disregarded or misapprehended. 
The world of matter, with all its changes — the world 
of mind, with all its intuitions and reasonings, arc as 
essentially real as the divine Being on whom thej’- de- 
pend. But what the. degree and mode of the depend- 
ence — when the dependence is interrupted and the laws 
imposed upon creation come into action — what is the 
hidden spring of natural forces, who shall define ? 
If Xenophanes ran into errors as hazardous as those 
which he resisted, he is entitled to indulgent censure 
when it is considered that he was the first, or among 
the first, to introduce into Greek speculation worthy, 
if inadequate, conceptions of the grandeur, and glory, 
and ineffable sovereignty of the divine Intelligence. 

Parmenides . — The most illustrious name produced 
by the Eleatic School is that of Parmenides, the disci- 
ple, probably, of the founder of the sect. lie was, by 
all accounts, a native of Elea (about 53G B.C.), and 
may have furnished, by his birthplace, the chief cause 
for the designation habitually bestowed upon this type 
of philosophy. He is frequently represented as the 
founder of dialectics, though this distinction is given 
by Aristotle to his pupil Zeno. He is, however, enti- 
tled to the credit of having given a more logical de- 
velopment to the views of his supposed teacher. So 
far as an} r authoritative exposition of his doctrines is 
concerned, we arc in nearly os unfortunate a position 
as in the case of his predecessor. Insufficient frag- 
ments of his philosophical poem are preserved, but the 
rest of our knowledge must be obtained from the po- 
lemics of his adversaries, and from the statements of 
late compilers. He is commended by Aristotle for his 
perspicacity, and certainly gave greater coherence to 
the system espoused by him. In doing so he may 
have improved its form at the expense of its elevation. 
The divinity of the universal Existence disappears ; 
for his point of departure is not the all-embracing In- 
telligence, but the abstract conception of being. In 
the main he agrees with Xenophanes, though he pre- 
sents his tenets in a different order and connection. 
He states precisely the antagonism between the judg- 
ments of the senses and the conclusions of the reason, 
but lie leaves it undeveloped. This lias been regarded 
as his most important addition to the Eleatic meta- 
physics, though the principle is latent and presupposed 
in the whole speculations of the earlier philosopher. 
The fundamental position of his scheme is the contra- 
diction of entity and nonentity. What is cannot be 
non-existent; what is non-existent is not. Blit ev- 
erything that is, exists. Hence the universality and 
unity of existence must be admitted; and as nothing 
can spring from nothing, or proceed from non-exist- 
ence to existence, all existence is eternal and un- 
changeable. There is nothing but being; therefore 
there is a plenum without any vacuum, and all being is 


thought. Being is limited, but limited only by itself, 
and embodied in a perfect sphere. It is independent 
of time, space, and motion, all of which are denied to 
have any absolute existence. It is a state of ever- 
lasting repose. All changes and motions are apparent 
only; they arc mere semblances. On this system be- 
ing is indestructible — a dogma which has returned 
upon us unexpectedly in the philosophy of Herbert 
Spencer, and those with whom he coincides. There 
is no loss or cessation of existence, onty variation of 
species, or change of apparent condition. Everything 
is determined Ly an indwelling necessity — a law which 
is involved in the existence by which it is revealed. 

There is a singular accordance in the procedure of 
Parmenides and that of Des Cartes. The highest 
speculations of man roll, like the world on which lie 
dwells, in one self-repeating orbit around the centre 
of attraction, deviating by slight deflections from the 
precisely-described track, blit never departing so far 
as to destroy the uniformity of the course. Contrast- 
ed but connected schemes of thought succeed each 
other in each revolution like the seasons, and all “ lead 
up the golden year.” 

In the physical application of his principles Par- 
menides recurred, like Xenophanes, to the procedure 
of the Ionic and Pythagorean schools, admitting an- 
tagonistic elements and forces, whose collisions and 
conjunctions produced the phenomena of the universe. 

In all these speculations, one main cause of bewil- 
derment and exaggeration is the oscitaney and im- 
palpability of abstract terms. We are at the mercy of 
the abracadabra with w hich the enchantments are at- 
tempted. The peiplexity and hallucination resulting 
from loose and elastic phrases was of course most per- 
ilous and least suspected before logical science arose, 
and before metaphysicians distinguished between rig- 
orous thought and current expression. 

Such defects exposed the doctrines of Parmenides 
to the attacks of acute contemporaries, and led to the 
recognition of the necessity of precision in statement, 
and to the consequent examination of the strict import 
of terms and of the validity of arguments. Hence 
they furnished to his disciple the occasion of inaugu- 
rating logic. 

Zeno . — The relation of Zeno to Parmenides is the 
most certain fact connected with the filiation of the 
Eleatic School. He was pupil, friend, companion, and 
apologist. He was the only prominent member of the 
sect w ho was unquestionably a native of Elea. lie 
defended and explained the dogmas of his preceptor; 
but the mode of his exposition led to notable changes 
in the career of philosophy, and prepared the way for 
the Socratic irony, the Platonic dialectics, the Orga- 
non of Aristotle, and other developments scarcely less 
important, lie became the inventor of regular dia- 
lectic procedure , but his claims in this respect are 
limited by the remarkable declaration of the Stagyritc 
in regard to his own labors, that his predecessors had 
only furnished examples of the forms of reasoning, 
while he had created the art ( Sophist . Elench . sub fin.). 

Increase of logical precision may give greater con- 
sistency and intelligibility to a philosophical system, 
but it renders its errors and dangers more prominent. 
This was the case with Zeno's presentation of the 
views of Parmenides. In urging the unreliability of 
the senses, and of inferences from observation, he ar- 
rayed experience against reason, and denied the valid- 
ity of the former. He acknowledged, at the same 
time, the impossibility of recognising in things sensible 
the unity which was alone real existence, and thus in- 
vited scepticism anti provoked the age of the Sophists. 

J felissns . — There is no reason for believing that Me- 
lissus of Samos was directly or consciously connected 
with the Eleatic family, but he is habitually included 
in their number in consequence of substantial identity 
of doctrine. He confined his attention almost exclu- 
sively to the negative aspects of the system, endeav- 


ELEAZAR 


122 


ELEAZAR 


oring to demonstrate the unreality of the phenomenal 
■world, and the inconsistency of ascribing time, motion, 
change, divisibility or limitation to the solitary Exist- 
ence. In representing being as infinite, he recoiled 
from the position of Parmenides and Zeno, and in 
some degree also from Xenophanes. He differed from 
them also in asserting that \vc can have no knowledge 
of the gods ; and, according to Aristotle, inclined to 
materialism in his conception of the universal One. 
The Eleatic idealism was thus verging towards the 
form of doctrine propounded by Epicurus. It bad com- 
pleted its course, and had swung round nearly to the 
opposite extreme from the point where it started. 

Whatever extravagances may be justly charged 
upon this celebrated school, its services to speculation 
and to the cause of truth should be neither denied nor 
underrated. It was surely a splendid and meritorious 
office, in the dawn of systematic philosophy, to awaken 
the minds of men to the recognition of the vain and 
evanescent character of all temporal things ; to protest 
against the delusions of Polytheism ; to direct atten- 
tion to a supreme and omnipresent Intelligence, per- 
fect in all attributes; to unveil the everlasting truth 
which was latent, but active, beneath all material and 
transitory forms; and to bring the reason of man into 
direct communion with the sovereign Power of the 
universe, in which he and all tilings else “ lived, and 
moved, and had their being.” In discharging this 
high function, the Eleatics promoted physical specula- 
tion, laid the foundations of logic, and perhaps of 
rhetoric, and introduced the argumentative dialogue 
which was employed with such consummate genius by 
Plato. 

There is a most profound significance in the obser- 
vation made by Aristotle in regard to Parmenides, that, 
“ looking up to the whole heavens, he declared the one 
only Being to be God.” This seems to have been the 
distinctive purport of the Eleatic School, though it was 
soon obscured, and ultimately discarded; but it prop- 
agated itself by a secret growth, and allied itself with 
other forms of speculation. 

Literature. — Plato, Sophista , Parmenides ; Aristotle, 
IP Xenophcme , Zenone et Gorr/ia; Metapkysica, lib. i, 
cap. v; Diogenes Laertius; Bayle, Diet. Hist, et Crit. 
s. v. Xenophane ; Boschmnnn, Diss. Hist. Philosophy de 
Xenoplume (Altona, 1729) ; Fullcborn, Liber de A 'eno- 
phone, Zenone, Gorr/ia, Aristoteli vulrjo tributus, partim 
illustratus commentario (Hal. 1789) ; Fragments of 
Xenophanes and Parmenides (Zullichau, 1795) ; Van 
der Kemp, Parmenides (Edma?, 1781); Gundling, Ob- 
servations on the Philosophy of Parmenides ; Brandis, 
Comm. Eleatiearum pars i (Altona, 1813) ; V. Cousin , 
Xouveaux Essais Philosopliiqucs (Paris, 1828); I Jose li- 
ber g, De Eleaticrv philos. primordiis (Berl. 1829); Kar- 
sten, Pliilosophoruni Grrec. v derum Reliquiae (Bruxelles, 
1S30) ; Mullach, Aristotelis de Melisso lib. Dispntationes 
(Berol. 1X16); Lewes, Hist, of Philosophy (Lond. 1867, i, 
G7 sq.) ; Ueberwcg, Gesch. d. Philosophic, i, 47 ; and the 
various historians of Greek philosophy. (G. F. II.) 

Eleazar (lleb. Elazar' , whom God has 

helped: Sept, and N. T. \E\tdsap ; from the Gneeized 
form [found in Maccabees and Josephus], 

came by contraction the later name AdZ,uooc, Laza- 
rus'), a common name among the Hebrews, being borne 
by at least six persons mentioned in Scripture, besides 
several in the Apocrypha and Josephus. See also 
Euezek. 

1. The third son of Aaron, by Elisheba, daughter of 
Amminadab, who was descended from Judah, through 
Phare/. (Exod. vi, 23; xxviii, 1; for his descent, see 
Gen. xxxviii, 29 ; xlvi, 12 ; Buth iv, IX, 20). lie mar- 
ried a daughter of Putiel, who bore him I’liinehas 
(Exod. vi, 25). After the death of Xadab and -Abilin 
without children (Lev. x, 1 ; Xu m. iii, 4), Eleazar was 
appointed ehief over the principal Levites, to have the , 
oversight of those who had charge of the sanctuary | 


(Xum. iii, 32). With his brother Ithamar he minis- 
tered as a priest during their father’s lifetime, and im- 
mediately before the death of their father he was in- 
vested on Mount Ilor with the sacred garments, as the 
successor of Aaron in the office of high-priest (Xum. 
xx, 28). B.C. 1019. One of his first duties was, in 
conjunction with Moses, to superintend the census of 
the people (Xum. xxvi, 3). lie also assisted at the in- 
auguration of Joshua, and at the division of spoil taken 
from the Midianites (Xum. xxvii, 22 ; xxxi, 21). Af- 
ter the conquest of Canaan by Joshua, he took part in 
the distribution of the land (Josh, xiv, 1). The time 
of his death is not mentioned in Scripture ; Josephus 
says it took place about the same time as Joshua’s, 25 
years after the death of Moses. He is said to have 
been buried in “the hill of Phinehas” his son (Josh, 
xxiv, 33), where Josephus says his tomb existed {Ant. 
v, I, 29), or possibly a town called Gibeath-Phinehas 
(Gesenius, Thesanr. p. 260, b). The liigh-priesthood is 
said to have remained in the family of Eleazar until 
the time of Eli, a descendant of Itbmar, into whose 
family, for some reason unknown, it passed until it 
was restored to the family of Eleazar in the person of 
Zadok (1 Sam. ii, 27 ; 1 Chron. vi, 8 ; xxiv, 3; 1 Kings 
ii, 27 ; Josephus, Ant. viii, 1, 3). — Smith, s. v. See 
Higii-priest. 

2. An inhabitant of Kirjath-jearim, on the “hill” 
(n^Iir), who was set apart by his fellow-townsmen to 
attend upon the ark, while it remained under the roof 
of his father Abinadab, after it had been returned to 
the Hebrews by the Philistines (1 Sam. vii, 1, 2). B.C. 
1124. II is service in this capacity was doubtless some- 
what irregular, but justifiable under the circumstances; 
for there is no evidence that he belonged to the priest- 
ly order, although it is probable that he was of a Lc- 
vitical family (who were not allowed to touch the ark, 
but had only the general charge of it, Xum. iii, 31 ; iv, 
15). He seems to have continued to exercise this sole 
care of the sacred deposit for the twenty years that in- 
tervened till the judgeship of Samuel (1 Sam. vii, 1), 
although the ark remained in the same place much 
longer (1 Chron. xiii, 7). 

3. A Levite, son of Mahli, and grandson of Merari. 
B.C. cir. 1618. He is mentioned as having had only 
daughters, who were married by their “ brethren” (i. 
c. their cousins) (1 Chron. xxiii, 21, 22 : xxiv, 28). 

4 . The son of Dodo the Ahohite (“'"nX”“ 52 ), i. e. 
possibly a descendant of Aboah, of the tribe of Benja- 
min (1 Chron. viii, 4) ; one of the three most eminent 
of David's thirty-seven distinguished heroes (1 Chron. 
xi, 12), who “ fought till his hand was weary” in main- 
taining with David and the other two a daring stand 
against the Philistines after “the men of Israel had 
gone away.” lie was also one of the same three 
when they broke through the Philistine host to gratify 
David’s longing for a drink of water from the well of 
his native Bethlehem (2 Sam. xxiii, 9, 10, 13). B.C. 
cir. 1046. See David. 

5 . Son of Phinchas, and associated with the priests 
and Levites in taking charge of the sacred vessels re- 
stored to Jerusalem after the Exile (Ezra viii. 33). 
B.C. 459. lie is probably the same with one of those 
who encompassed the walls of Jerusalem on their com- 
pletion (Xeh. xii, 42). B.C. 416. It docs not appear 
from these passages, however, that lie was necessarily 
a priest or even a Levite. 

6. One of the descendants (or citizens') of Parosh, 
an Israelite (i. e. layman) who renounced the Gentile 
wife whom lie had married on returning from Babylon 
(Ezra x, 25). B.C. 410. Possibly he is the same with 
Xo. 5. 

7 . The first-named of the “principal men and learn- 
ed” sent for by Ezra to accompany him to Jerusalem 
(1 Esd. viii, 43); evidently the Eliezek (q. v.) of the 
Ilcb. text (Ezra viii, 16). 

8. According to Josephus, the Jewish high-priest, 


ELEAZAR 


123 


ELECT 


brother and successor of Simon the Just, and son of 
Onias I, whose correspondence with Ptolemy Phila- 
delphus resulted in the Septuagint (q. v.) translation 
being made {Ant. xii, 2, 5 sq. ; 4, 4). See Higu- 

PR1EST. 

9. Surnamed Avaran (1 Macc. ii, 5, Avapav, or 

Arp civ, and so Josephus, Ant. xii, 6, 1 ; 9, 4. In 1 
Macc. vi, 43, the common reading 6 arises 

either from the insertion of C by mistake after O, or 
from a false division of ’EXfu^rtpoc Auapav ), the fourth 
son of Mattathias, who fell by a noble act of self-de- 
votion in an engagement with Antiochus Eupator, 
being crushed to death by the fall of an elephant which 
he stabbed under the belly in the belief that it bore 
the king, B.C. 1G4 (1 Macc. vi, 43 sq. ; Josephus, Ant. 
xii, 19, 4; JlTir, i. 1, 5; Ambrose, De ojfic. min. 40). 
In a former battle with Nicanor, Eleazar was appoint- 
ed by Judas to read “the holy book” before the at- 
tack, and the watchword in the fight — “ the help of 
God” — was his own name (2 Macc. viii, 23). 

The surname “Avaran” is probably connected with 
Arab, havar , “ to pierce an animal behind” (Michae- 
Iis, s. v.). This derivation seems far better than that 
of Rudiger (Erscli u. Gruber, s. v.) from Arab, Mia va- 
ran, “an elephant-hide.” In either case the title is 
derived from his exploit. 

10 . A distinguished scribe (’EXfa^apoc . . . rw v 
7 rpoj-zv 6 rrojv ypa^gariiov, 2 Macc. vi, 18) of great 
age, who suffered martyrdom during the persecution 
of Antiochus Epiphanes (2 Macc. vi, 18-31). B.C. cir. 
1G7. His death was marked bv singular constancy 
and heroism, and seems to have produced considerable 
effect. Later traditions embellished the narrative by 
representing Eleazar as a priest ( De Macc. 5), or even 
high-priest (Grimm, cul Macc. 1. c.). He was also 
distinguished by the nobler title of “the proto r martvr 
of the old covenant,” “the foundation of martyrdom” 
(Chrvsost. Horn. 3 in Macc. in it. Comp. Ambrose, De 
Jacob, ii, 10). For the general credibility of the his- 
tory comp. Grimm, Excnrs. iiber 2 Macc. vi, 18— viii, in 
Exeg. llandb . ; also Ewald, Gesch. iv, 341, 532. See 
Maccabees. 

The name Eleazar in 3 Macc. vi appears to have 
been borrowed from this Antiochian martyr, as be- 
longing to one weighed down by age and suffering, and 
yet “helped by God.” — Smith, s. v. 

11 . The father of Jason, ambassador from Judas 
Maccabanis to Rome (1 Macc. viii, 18). B.C. 1G1. 

12 . Son of Eliud and father of Matthan, which last 
was the grandfather of Joseph, Christ’s reputed father 
(Matt, i, 15). B.C. cir. 150. 

13 . A priest mentioned by Josephus as having 
charge of the Temple treasures, who sought to divert 
Crassus from pillaging the sanctuary by the largess 
of a beam of gold {Ant. xiv, 7, 1). 

14 . A son of Boethus, whom A rebel a us put into the 
high-priesthood in place of his brother Joazar, but soon 
displaced by Jesus the son of Sie (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 
13,1). 

15 . Son of Ananus (or Ananias), made high-priest 
in the room of Ishmael (son of Phabi) by Gratus, who 
deposed him after one } r ear in favor of Simon son of 
Camithus (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 2, 2). While a youth, 
his boldness led him, as prefect of the Temple, to ad- 
vise the Jews to refuse all foreign presents (Josephus, 
War. ii, 17, 2). He had been seized by the Sicarii as 
a hostage for ten prisoners of their own number {Ant. 
xx, 9, 3). He was one of the generals chosen by the 
Jews for Idumaea during the revolt under Cestius 
(liar, ii, 20, 4). 

16 . Son of Uinacus, a robber who for many years 
infested the mountains of Samaria, whose troop was at 
length broken up by Cumanus (Josephus, Ant. xx, G, 
1). He was himself captured by stratagem and sent 
to Rome by Felix ( ib . 8, 5). He seems to be the same 
with the notorious rebel commander of Massada, at 
whose instigation the desperate garrison committed 


suicide ( War, vii, 8-9; comp. Ant. xx, 1, 1; War, ii 
13, 2). 

17 . A companion of Simon of Gerasa; sent by the 
latter to endeavor to persuade the garrison of Herodi- 
um to capitulate, hut indignantly put to death by them 
(Josephus, War, iv, 9, 5). 

18 . A young Jew of great valor in the siege of Ma- 
chicrus by Bassus ; captured by Rufus, but released 
by the Romans on condition of the surrender of the 
fortress (Josephus, War, vii, G, 4). 

19 . A Jewish conjuror whom Josephus speaks of 
having seen exorcise demons in the presence of Ves- 
pasian and his officers by means of a magical ring 
{A nt. viii, 2, 5). 

20 . A son of Sameas, and born in Saab in Galilee, 
who performed a heroic act of valor and self-devotion 
during the final siege of Jerusalem (Josephus, War , 
iii, 7, 21). 

21. Son of Simon, and ringleader of the Zealots in 
the final convulsions of the Jewish nation (Josephus, 
War, iv, 4, 1). He first appears as possessor of a 
large amount of plunder from the Romans under Ces- 
tius, which gave him control of public affairs {ib. ii, 20, 
3). During the siege by Titus he held the Temple 
against the other factions {ib. v, 1, 2), being supplied 
by the sacred stores of provisions (ib. 3); but at length 
he formed a coalition with one of these opponents, 
John of Gischala, who occupied the remainder of the 
eastern part of the city {ib. v, G, 1), having lost his 
vantage by a stratagem of the latter {ib. 3, 1). See 
the full account under Jerusalem. 

Eleazar (in Armenian Eghiazar ), an Armenian 
patriarch, was born at Anthab, in Syria. In 1G50, 
David, the patriarch of Constantinople, w r as ejected 
from his seat, and Eleazar elected in his place. He 
held this position only for two years, for in 1G52 Phil- 
ip, the patriarch of Etchmiadzin, and supreme head of 
the Church, arrived at Constantinople, expelled Elea- 
zar, and consecrated John of Meghin, who, in turn, 
was soon ejected by the intrigues of Eleazar. The 
see then remained vacant for some time. Eleazar 
went to Jerusalem, in compliance with an invitation 
of the patriarch of that city, Azduadzadur, who wished 
his assistance in a quarrel with the Greeks, and prom- 
ised to make him his successor. AYhile residing in 
the convent of St. James, Eleazar discovered a treasure 
of 100,000 pieces of gold and 100,000 pieces of silver. 
After many troubles with Turkish officials and several 
imprisonments, he succeeded in obtaining possession 
of the convent. He built a church, called after the 
residence of the chief patriarch of the Armenians, 
Etchmiadzin, and caused himself to be elected inde- 
pendent patriarch of Jerusalem, lie was expelled in 
1GG4, and again, after having regained possession of 
the dignity, in 1GG8, when he was succeeded by a per- 
sonal enemy, Martyr. The people, dissatisfied with 
this change, replaced Azduadzadur, after whose death 
Eleazar took forcible possession of the patriarchal see. 
He maintained himself in this position until 1G80, 
when, after the death of James IV, the patriarch of 
Etchmiadzin, he assumed the title of patriarch of all 
the Armenians. A subsequent election confirmed him 
in this position, and in 1G82 he took up his residence 
in Etchmiadzin. His chief aim as head of the Arme- 
nian Church was to put an end to internal dissensions. 
He died at Etchmiadzin in IG91. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, xv, 791. (A. J. S.) 

Eleazu'rus (a strange rendering for 'E\i actfioQ, 
Alex. MS. ' E\i«(Ti/3oc,V ulg. Eliasib), one of the Levit- 
ical musicians who married a Gentile wife after the re- 
turn from Babylon (1 Esdr. ix, 24) ; evidently the 
Eliashib (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra x, 24). 

Elect, a term sometimes applied in the ancient 
Church (1) to the whole body of baptized Christians, 
who were called dyioi , itcXeKroi , saints , elect; (2) to 
the highest class of catechumens elected to baptism; 


ELECTA 


124 


ELECTION OF CLERGY 


(3) at other times to the newly baptized, as especially 
admitted to the full privileges of their profession, and 
sometimes called the perfect. 

Ascetics, who at one time were considered the most 
eminent of Christian professors, were called the elect 
of the elect. — Bingham, Oriy. Eccles. bk. x, ch. ii, § 5. 
Sec Catechumens. 

Electa or Eclecta (’EicXficr//,Anth. Vers, “elect” 
lady). According to Grotius, Wetstein, and some oth- 
er critics, this word is used as a proper name in the ad- 
dress of John’s second epistle, '(> 1 Ipterfiortpog ’EkX tu- 
rf} Kvpiq — “'The Presbyter to the Lady Eclecta .” This 
meaning is advocated by bishop Middleton, in his trea- 
tise on the Doctrine of the Greek Article (2d edit. Cam- 
bridge, 1828, p. 626-629). lie adduces in support of it 
several epistolary inscriptions from Basil, in which the 
name precedes, and the rank or condition in life is sub- 
joined, such as EvaraQiip icirpip — Aeo vr’up ootparry — 

U OOTTOptip tTTKJKOTClp M(iyi'}]fUCtl>(p KOpl]Tl 110116 of 

these, however, are purety honorary titles. To meet 
the objection that the sister of the person addressed is 
also called Eclecta in verse 13, lie suggests that the 
words rfjg 'EuXturyg are a gloss, explanatory of <xou. 
But this is mere conjecture, unsupported by a single 
manuscript ; and such a gloss, if occasioned (as bishop 
Middleton supposes) bv the return to the singular 
number, would more naturally have been inserted af- 
ter or, in which position, however unnecessary, it 
would at least produce no ambiguity. Some writers, 
both ancient and modern, have adopted a mystical in- 
terpretation, though contrary to the usus loquendl, and 
to all apostolic usage, and suppose with Jerome that 
the term tuXturij referred to the Church in general, 
or with Cassiodorus, to some particular congregation. 
The last-named writer (born A.l). 470, died 5G2), in his 
Complexities in Epistolcis, etc. (London, 1722, p. 136), 
says, “Johannes — electa? dominie scribit ecclesire, iili- 
isque ej us, quas sacro fonte genuerat.” Clemens Al- 
exandriniis, in a fragment of his Adnmbrationes , at- 
tempts to combine the literal and tire mystical mean- 
ings — “Script* vero est ad quandam B.ibyloniam Elcc- 
tam nomine, significat autem electionem ecclesiie sanc- 
t»” (Opera, ed. Klotz, iv, p. 66). The Anth. Version 
translates the words in question “ the elect lady,” an 
interpretation approved by Castalio, Beza, Mill, Wolf, 
Lc Clere, and Mac-knight. Most modern critics, how- 
ever — Schleusner and Breitsclmcider, in their lexi- 
cons; Bourger (1763), Vater (18241, Goschen, and Tis- 
chendorf (1S41), in their editions of the N. Testament; 
Noander (Planting of the Church, ii, 71), De Wette 
(Lehrhuch, p. 339), and Llicke ( Commentary on the Epis- 
tles of St.John, p. 314-320, Eng. transl.) — agree with 
the Syriac and Arabic versions in making k vpia a 
proper name, and render the words u to the elect CyriaP 
(Sec Grutqri Inscnpt. p. 1127.) Lardner has given a 
copious account of critical opinions in his History of 
the Apostles and Evangelists , c. xx ( HoJs-, vi, 2*4-288). 

• — Kitto, s. v. See also Heumann, De Cyria (Getting. 
1726); llittmeier, De tuXtury kopqi (Helmst. 1706) ; 
Knauer, Ueber UXtu-y Kvpiqi (in the Theol. Stud. n. 
Krit. vi, 452 sq.); Amer. Presb. llev., Jan. 1867. See 
John (Third Epistle of). 

Election of Clergy. IIow far the people had a 
right in the election of ministers in the early Church 
is a question that lias been much disputed. 

1. The account in Acts i, 15 of the choice of an apos- 
tle in place of Judas is cited as proof that even the 
apo>tles would not elect without the voice of the 
Church at Jerusalem. So in the choice of the deacons 
(Acts vi), the people “chose Stephen and set him be- 
fore the apostles.” On the other hand, the apostles 
themselves appointed elders, and St. Paul empowered 
Titus and Timothy to do the same (Acts xiv, 23; 2 
Tim. ii, 1 ; Tit. i,5); though some interpret the word 
yfiporoi'tTr, i n these passages, as implying ordination 
only- 1 - and not excluding a previous election by the 


people. Compare also Acts xv, 1 ; 1 Cor. v.2 ; 2 Cor. 
viii, 19. 

2. Clemens Romanus (f 100) (Epist. ad Corinth, i, 
j § 44) asserts that the apostles appointed bishops and 

deacons with the concurrence of the whole Church. 
It is clear, from Clement’s statement, that in his time 
the Church had a share in the appointment of its min- 
isters. Cyprian (f 258) testifies to the share of the 
people in the election of bishops and elders, calling it 
matter of divine authority that “ sacerdos plebe pre- 
sente sub omnium oculis deligatur, et dignus atque ido- 
neus puldico judicio ac testimonio comprobetur” (Epist. 
68). Bingham cites Lampridius ( Vit. A lex. Seven, c. 
45) as stating that the emperor (A. D. 222-235) gave 
the people a negative vote in the appointment of proc- 
urator, on the express ground that “ what the Chris- 
tians did in the election of their priests and ministers, 
should certainly be allowed the people in the appoint- 
ment of governors of provinces.” 

3. Even after the establishment of the hierarchy, it 
seems to have been usual for the clergy or presbytery, 
or the sitting bishop or presbyter, to nominate a per- 
son to fill the vacant office, and then for the suffrages 
of the people — not merely testimonial, but really elec- 
tive suffrages — to be taken. Bingham sums up the 
facts (Orig. Eccles. bk. iv, chap, ii) in substance as fol- 
lows : 1. No bishop could be obtruded upon an ortho- 
dox people against their consent (in case a majority 

l were heretics or schismatics, the case was otherwise 
1 provided for) : when the)’- agreed upon a deserving 
bishop, they were usually gratified in their choice. 
The emperor Valentinian III held it to be a crime in 
Hilary of Arles that “he ordained bishops against the 
! consent and w ill of the people.” 2. In many cases the 
voices of the people prevailed against the nominations 
of the bishops. 3. The inodes of voting illustrate the 
power of the people in the elections ; if they were 
unanimous for or against a man, they cried out “ wor- 
! thy” or “un-worthy” («£iof, ctva^iog', dignus, indignus'). 

If they were divided, they expressed their dissent in 
J accusations, or even in tumults. There are instances 
i in which persons w-ere brought by force to the bishop 
to he ordained, or were elected to the office by accla- 
mation. It was decided by the fourth Council of Car- 
thage, that as the bishop might not elect clerks with- 
out the advice of his clergy, so likewise he should se- 
cure the consent, co-operation, and testimony of the 
people. The popular elections, however, became scenes 
of great disorder and abuse. A remarkable passage 
from Chrysostom (De Sacerdf) has been frequently 
quoted, and applies more or less to such elections, not 
only in Constantinople, but also in Rome, Alexandria, 
Antioch, and other large cities. He says : “ Go and 
witness the proceedings at our public festivals, in 
which, more especially, according to established rule, 
the election of ecclesiastical officers take place. You 
will find there complaints raised against the minister 
as numerous and as various in their character as the 
multitude of those who are the subject of Church gov- 
ernment. For all those in whom the right of election 
is vested split into factions. It is evident that there 
is no good understanding, either among themselves, or 
with the appointed president, or with the presbytery. 
One supports one man, and one another; and the rea- 
son of this is, that they all neglect to look at that point 
which they ought to consider, namely, the intellectual 
and moral qualifications of the person to be elected. 
There are other points by which their choice is deter- 
mined. One, for instance, says, L It is necessary to 
elect a person who is of a good family.’ Another 
would choose a wealthy person, because he would not 
require to be supported out of the revenues of the 
Church. A third votes for a person who has come 
over from some opposite party. A fourth uses his in- 
fluence in favor of a relative or friend ; while another 
lends his influence to one who has won upon him by 
1 fair speeches and plausible pretensions.” In order to 


ELECTION OF GRACE 125 ELECTION OF GRACE 


set aside these abuses, some bishops claimed an exclu- 
sive right of appointing to spiritual offices. In this 
way they gave offence to the people. In the Latin 
and African churches an attempt was made to secure 
greater simplicity in elections by introducing inter- 
ventors or “visitors.” This did not, however, long 
continue. Another plan was to vest the election in 
members of the lay aristocracy. But the determining 
who these should be was left to caprice or accident ; 
and the result was, that the right of election was taken 
out of the hands of the people, and vested partly in 
the hands of the ruling powers, and partly with the 
clergy, who exercised their right, either by the bish- 
ops, their suffragans and vicars, or by collegiate meet- 
ings, and this very often without paying any regard to 
the Church or diocese immediately concerned. Some- 
times the extraordinary mode of a bishop's designating 
his successor was adopted ; or some one unconnected 
with the diocese, to whom a doubtful case had been re- 
ferred for decision, was allowed to nominate. But in 
these cases the consent of the people was presupposed. 
Patronage has prevailed since the fifth century ; but 
the complete development of this system was a work 
of the 8th and 9th centuries. — Bingham, Orvjines Ec- 
clesiastics, bk. iv, chap, ii ; Farrar, Ecclesiastical Diet. 
s. v.; Kiddle, Christian Antiquities, bk. iii, chap, xv; 
Coleman, Christian Antiquities , chap. v. See Patron- 
age. 

Election of Grace. On the history of the doc- 
trine of Election, sec Arsiixianism ; Predestina- 
tion. We present here, 1. A statement of the doc- 
trine from the Augustinian or Calvinistic point of 
view, by the Kev. C. Ilodge, D.D., of Princeton ; 11. 
A statement of the doctrine from the Methodist point 
of view; 111. Some other conceptions of the doc- 
trine. 

I. Election from the Calvinistic Point of View . — The 
Scriptures speak, 1st, of the election of individuals to 
office, or to positions of honor and privilege. Thus 
Abraham was chosen to be the father of the faithful, 
and the depositary of the promise of redemption. Thus 
Jacob was chosen, in preference to Esau, to be the 
progenitor of the chosen people. In like manner, Saul 
w r as chosen by God to be king over Israel, and subse- 
quently' David, and after him Solomon, were selected 
for the same high dignity. Thus also the prophets, 
and, under the new dispensation, the apostles, were 
chosen by God for the work assigned them. 2d. The 
Bible speaks of the election of nations to special privi- 
leges. The Hebrews were chosen from all the nations 
of the earth to be God's peculiar people. To them 
were committed the oracles of God. They w r ere his 
inheritance. They received from him their law's and 
their religion, and were under his special guidance 
and protection. In Deut. vii, G, it is said, “Thou art 
an holy people unto the Lord thy God : the Lord thy 
God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto him- 
self, above all people that are upon the face of the 
earth;’’ xxxii, 9, “The Lord’s portion is his people; 
Jacob is the lot of his inheritance Eom. ix, 4, “ Who 
are Israelites; to whom pertaineth the adoption, and 
the glory, and the covenants, and the giving to the 
law, and the service of God, and the promises.” 3d. 
Besides this election of individuals and of nations to 
external advantages, the Scriptures speak of an elec- 
tion to salvation; 2 Thess. ii, 13, “We are bound to 
give thanks always to God for you, brethren, beloved 
of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning 
chosen } t ou to salvation, through sanctification of the 
Spirit and belief of the truth.” 

Of this election to eternal life all Augustinians teach, 
frst, that its objects are not nations, nor communities, 
nor classes of persons, but individuals. 1. Because 
neither the nations nor communities, as such, are 
saved. God did not choose all the nation of the Jew's 
to salvation. Neither does he choose the nations of 
Christendom to eternal life; nor any organized Church, 


whether Papal or Protestant. The heirs of salvation 
are individual men. 

2. Because those chosen to salvation are chosen to 
“ sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth. 
They arc chosen “to be holy and without blame be- 
fore him in love” (Eph. i, 4). The}' are elect accord- 
ing to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through 
sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprink- 
ling of the blood of Jesus Christ” (1 Pet. i, 2). Put 
nations and communities are not sanctified, or obedi- 
ent, or unblamable before God in love. 

3. We "accordingly find that the elect are always ad- 
dressed as individuals. Paul, when writing to a num- 
ber of persons residing in Thessalonica, says, “God 
hath chosen you to salvation.” Writing to the Ephe- 
sians, he says, “God hath chosen us,” “having pre- 
destinated us.” Our Lord (John xiii, 18) says, “ I speak 
not of you all; I know -whom I have chosen;” and 
again (John vi, 37), “All that the Father giveth me 
shall come to me ; and him that cometh to me I will 
in no wise cast out.” John xvii, 2, “Thou hast given 
him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal 
life to as many as thou hast given him.” Ver. 9, “ I 
pray not for the world, but for those which thou hast 
given me.” The Scriptures, therefore, clearly teach 
that the elect are certain individuals chosen out of the 
world to be the heirs of salvation. 

Secondly. Augustinians hold that the ground of this 
election is the good pleasure of God. That is, that 
the reason why one person and not another is chosen 
to eternal life is to be found, not in what he is or does, 
distinguishing him favorably from his fellow'- men, 
but simply because so it seems good in the sight of 
God. All being equally guilty and unworthy, God, 
for the manifestation of his glory, and for the attain- 
ment of the highest ends, chooses seme, and not oth- 
ers, to be vessels of mercy prepared beforehand unto 
glory. 

That such is the doctrine of the Scriptures on this 
subject is argued, 1. Because the Bible expressly says 
that election is of grace and not of w'orks. It is not 
of works means that it is not what a man does that 
determines whether he is to be one of the elect or not. 
The apostle, in Korn, ix, 11, teaches that the choice of 
Jacob instead of Esau was made and announced before 
their birth, “that the purpose of God, according to 
election, might stand, not of works, but of him that 
ealleth.” It matters not whether the election here 
spoken of be to eternal life or to temporal advantages. 
The apostle refers to this incident in proof of God’s 
sovereignty, and therefore he infers from it, “ It is not 
of him that villcth, nor of him that runneth, but of 
God that sboweth mercy” (ver. 1G). In like manner, 
in ch. xi of the same epistle, he refers to the declara- 
tion made in the Old Test, to Elias : “ I have reserved 
unto myself seven thousand men who have ’not bowed 
the knee to the image of Baal ;” and adds, “Even so, 
then, at this present time there is a remnant according 
to the election of grace. And if l>v grace, then it is 
no more of w r orks ; otherwise grace is no more grace” 
(ver. 4-G). The mass of the Jews were cast off. A 
remnant was saved. That remnant consisted of those 
whom God chose. His choice was a sovereign one. 
It was of grace, and not of w'orks. It was determined 
by the good pleasure of God, and not by what the ob- 
jects of that choice had done. Paul himself belonged 
to that remnant. He was an illustrious example of 
the sovereignty of God in election. lie had dona 
nothing to secure the favor of God. He was chosen 
to eternal life not because he repented and believed. 
He was converted not because he had faithfully used 
the means of securing a knowledge of Christ. On the 
contrary, he w r as converted in the midst of his wicked 
career of persecution. Tie w r as brought to faith and 
repentance because, as our Lord says, “ lie w r as a cho- 
sen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gen- 
tiles, and kings, and the children of Israel” (Acts ix. 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


126 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


15 ). Paul’s experience, as well as the teaching of the 
IIolv Spirit, impressed upon his mind a deep convic- 
tion of the sovereignty of God in the salvation of men. 
He knew he bad been chosen not for, but notwith- 
standing, his previous character and conduct. And 
he knew that, had he not been thus chosen, he would 
have perished forever. It is not surprising, therefore, 
that he valued this doctrine, or that he so often refers 
to himself as a monument of the grace of God in the 
election and salvation of sinners. In his epistle to 
the Galatians, after referring to the fact that he had 
“beyond measure persecuted the Church of’God,” lie 
adds, “ It pleased God, who separated me from my 
mother’s womb, and called me by his grace, to reveal 
his Son in me” (Gal. i, 15). See also Acts xxii, 14; 1 
Cor. xv, 9; 1 Tim. i, 15, 1G : “Jesus Christ came into 
the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. How- 
beit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first 
Jesus Christ might show forth all suffering, for a pat- 
tern to them which should hereafter believe in him to 
life everlasting.” Nothing could have pained the 
apostle more than that any one should attribute his 
conversion in any form or in any measure to himself. 
His constant and grateful acknowledgment was, “ By 
the grace of God I am what I am.” The negative 
statement that election is “not of works,” is often, as 
in the passages above cited, connected with the posi- 
tive assertion that it is of grace, or due to the sover- 
eign pleasure of God. 

2. It is not, however, merely in isolated passages 
that this doctrine is taught; it is elaborately proved 
and vindicated. Thus, in 1 Cor. i, 17-31, the oppo- 
nents of Paul in Corinth had urged against him that 
he was neither a philosopher nor a rhetorician ; lie 
came neither with “the w’isdom of men” nor with 
“enticing words.” Paul’s answer to this objection is 
twofold. First, he shows that philosophy, or the wis- 
dom of men, had never led to the saving knowledge of 
God (i, 13-21); secondly, that when the true method 
of salvation was revealed, it was rejected by the wise. 
“ Look at your calling, brethren,” he says ; see whom 
it is that God hath chosen. It is not the wise, the m>- 
ble, or the great ; but God hath chosen the foolish, the 
weak, and the base. This was done with the design 
that no flesh should glory in his presence ; no man 
was to he allowed to refer his conversion to himself. 
It is of God ye are in Christ Jesus, that he that glori- 
eth may glory in the Lord (i, 26-31). 

Thus, also, in Eph. i,3-6, the apostle reminds his 
readers that God had blessed them with every spirit- 
ual blessing (v. 3). This he had done because he had 
chosen them in Christ before the foundation of the 
world, to he holy and without blame before him in 
love (v. 4). He had thus chosen them to holiness, be- 
cause he had, according to the good pleasure of his 
w ill, predestined them to the high dignity of sonship 
(v. 5). He had thus predestined them to he his sons, 
in order to glorify his grace or unmerited love (v. 6). 
In these few verses the whole Augustinian doctrine on 
this subject is stated with the utmost clearness and 
precision. 

In the 8th chapter of the epistle to the Romans, the 
design of the apostle is to show the security of believ- 
ers. Those who arc in Christ shall never be con- 
demned; because they are justified; because they have 
the principle of spiritual life through the indwelling 
of the lloly Ghost; because the}' arc the children of 
God; because the Spirit makes intercession for them; 
because those whom God foreknov'S, he predestinates: 
whom lie predestinates, lie calls: whom he calls, he 
justifies: whom he justifies, he glorifies. This is a 
chain which cannot be broken. Those in whom he 
fixes his choice, he predestines, as said in the Ephe- 
sians, to he his sons and daughters; and those. whom 
he thus predestinates, he. effectually calls or regener- 
ates ; and those whom he regenerates, he will certainlv 
save. All this the apostle confirms by a reference to 


the infinite and immutable love of God. “ If God sc 
loved us,” he argues, “that he spared not his own Son, 
but delivered him up for us, how shall he not with him 
freely give us all things ? Who shall lay anything to 
the charge of God’s elect? It is God that justified. 
Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, 
yea, rather, that is risen again, who is even at the 
right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for 
us.” 

It was a natural objection to the apostle’s doctrino 
that God had rejected the Jews and called the Gen' 
tiles ; that it involved a violation of his promise to the 
patriarch Abraham, To this objection he gives, in the 
ninth chapter of his epistle to the Romans, a twofold 
answer. The one is, that the promise of salvation per- 
tained not to the natural, but to the spiritual children 
of Abraham; not to the \l<7pa/)\ Kara trap/ca, but to 
the ’Iapa/yX Kara Ttvtvfia. The other is, that God acts 
as a sovereign in the dispensation both of temporal and 
of spiritual blessings. This he illustrates in the choice 
of Isaac instead of Ishmael, and of Jacob instead of 
Esau. Resides, lie expressly claims this prerogative, 
saying to Moses, “I will have mercy on whom I w r ill 
have mercy, and I will have compassion on w hom I 
will have compassion.” 

To the objection that it is unjust thus to dispense or 
withhold mercy at his own good pleasure, Paul’s an- 
swer is, that any attribute which the Scriptures ascribe 
to God, and any prerogative which he actually exer- 
cises, W'c must admit rightfully to belong to him. If 
God, in his Word, claims this prerogative of having 
mercy on v'liom he will have mercy, and if he actually 
exercises it in his providence, and in the dispensation 
of his grace, it is vain for us to deny or to protest. 
The judge of all the earth must do right. 

Besides, as the inspired writer continues his argu- 
ment, if the potter has the right of the same mass of 
clay to make one vessel to honor and another to dis- 
honor, has not the infinite God the same right over his 
fallen creatures? Can any one complain if, to mani- 
fest his mercy, he saves some of the guilty children of 
men, and to manifest his justice he allow'S others to 
bear the just recompense of their sins? This is only 
doing what every good and wise human sovereign is 
expected and required to do. 

It cannot fail to he noticed that the character of the 
apostle's doctrine is determined by the objections to 
it. Had he taught that God chooses as vessels of 
mercy those who he foresees will believe, and leaves 
to perish those who he foresees will reject the Gospel, 
there had been no pretext for the charge of injustice. 
It was because he taught that God gave repentance 
and faith to some and not to others that his opponents 
charged him with teaching what was inconsistent with 
impartial justice on the part of God. 

3. That God is sovereign in the election of the heirs 
of salvation is plain, because men are chosen to holi- 
ness: faith and repentance are gifts of God, and fruits 
of his Spirit. If it is election to salvation which se- 
cures repentance and faith, repentance and faith can- 
not be the ground of election. The passages of Scrip- 
ture already quoted distinctly assert that election pre- 
cedes and secures the exercise of faith. In Eph. i, 4, 
it is said, We were chosen, before the foundation of the 
W'orld, to be holy. In chap, ii, 8, of the same epistle, 
it is said, “ Faith is the gift of God and in v. 10, that 
we w'erc foreordained unto good works. In Colos- 
sians, faith is said to he “ of the operation of God” (ii, 
12). In Eph. i, 19, it is referred to “the mighty pow- 
er of God,” which wrought in Christ when he raised 
him from the dead. In 1 Pet. i, 2, it is said, we are 
elected “unto obedience and the sprinkling of the 
blood of Jesus Christ.” Vocation, that is, regenera- 
tion, the fruits of which arc faith and holy living, fol- 
low's election, as taught in Rom. viii, 30, “whom he 
did predestinate, them he also called.” In a preceding 
verse of that chapter, it is said, we arc predestinated 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


127 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


“ to be conformed to the image of his Son.” But con- 
formity to the image of Christ includes all that is good 
in us." Christ was exalted “to give repentance and 
forgiveness of sin” (Acts v, 31). “If God perad ven- 
ture will give them repentance to the acknowledging 
of the truth” (2 Tim. ii, 25). “ Hearken, my beloved 

brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world 
to be rieh in faith” (James ii, 5). “ It is of him ye are 
in Christ Jesus” (1 Cor. i, 30). It is, however, un- 
necessary to multiply quotations. The Bible is full 
of the doctrine that regeneration is the gift of God; 
that all holy exercises are due to the working of his 
Spirit. All Christians recognise this truth in their 
prayers. The} r pray earnestl} r for the conversion of 
those dear to them. This takes for granted that God 
can and does change the heart; that all that pertains 
to salvation, the means as well as the end, are his 
gifts. If he gives ns repentance — if the faet be due to 
him that we, and not others, turn from our sins to the 
living God, then surely he does not choose us and not 
others because of such repentance. 

4. Salvation is by grace. Grace is not mere benev- 
olence, nor is it love in the form in which God loves 
the holy angels. It is love to the unholy, the guilty, 
to enemies. It is mysterious love. It is compared to 
the instinctive love of a mother for her child, which is 
independent of its attractions. This is the most won- 
derful, and, perhaps, the most glorious of all the known 
attributes of God. We are distinctly told that the 
special object of the redemption of man was the reve- 
lation of this divine perfection ; it was for the manifes- 
tation “of the glory of the riches of his grace” (Eph. 
i, G). He hath quickened us, raised us up, made us sit 
in heavenly places, “that in the ages to come he might 
show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness 
to us through Christ Jesus” (Eph. ii, 5-7). Such be- 
ing the design of redemption, it must, in all its stages, 
be a work of grace. It was a matter of grace that re- 
demption was provided for man and not for angels ; 
it was a matter of grace that God gave his Son for our 
salvation. To make the mission of Christ a matter of 
justice, something to which our fallen race had a 
righteous claim, would alter the whole character of the 
Bible. The incarnation, sufferings, and death of the 
Son of God are everywhere set forth as manifestations 
of the unmerited and infinite love of God. But if a 
matter of grace that salvation was provided for the 
children of men, it was a matter of grace that the 
knowledge of the plan of salvation was communicated 
to some and not to others — to the Jews and not to the 
Gentiles. It is of grace that any sinner is justified, 
that he is sanctified and saved. From first to last sal- 
vation is of grace. To introduce the element of works 
or merit into any part of the plan vitiates its charac- 
ter. It is expressly taught that regeneration or con- 
version, the faet that one man is converted and not 
another, is a matter of graced This is what the apostle 
specially insists upon in the first chapter to the Corin- 
thians, already referred to. lie calls upon his readers 
to look at their calling, to see who among them were 
called. It was not the wise or the great, but the fool- 
ish and the insignificant, whom God chose, for the very 
purpose that no flesh should glory in his presence. It 
was necessary that the subjects of salvation should 
feel and acknowledge that they were saved by grace; 
that it was not for any merit of their own, not for an} r - 
thing favorably distinguishing them from others, but 
simply that God, and the riches and sovereignty of his 
grace, should be magnified in them. Such is the form 
of apostolic Christianity, and such is the form in which 
it reveals itself in the heart of the believer. His 
theory ma} r be one thing, hut his inward and, it may 
be added, his delightful consciousness is that he owes 
his salvation to the grace of God alone. 

5. The doctrines of the Bible are so related that one 
of necessity implies others. If the Scriptures teach 
that men, since the Fall, are born in a state of sin and 


condemnation, and are spiritually dead until renewed 
by the Holy Ghost; if this death in sin involves en- 
tire helplessness, or inability to any spiritually good ; 
if regeneration, or effectual calling, is effected, not by 
the moral influence of the truth, or by those divine in- 
fluences common to all who hear the Gospel, but “by 
the mighty power of God,” then of necessity the call- 
ing and consequently the election of those w lio are 
saved is a matter of sovereignty. If Christ, when on 
earth, raised some from the dead and not others, it 
was not anything in the state of one dead body as dis- 
tinguished from others which determined which should 
rise and which should remain in their graves. As 
this connection between doctrines exists, all the evi- 
dence which the Bible contains of one of the truths 
just mentioned is so much evidence in favor of the 
others. 

6. The system of doctrine with which these views are 
connected is frequently designated as Pauline. But 
this is a misnomer. Although clearly taught by the 
apostle Paul, these views are far from being peculiar to 
his writings. They not only pervade the Scriptures, 
but were inculcated with greater solemnity, clearness, 
and frequency by our blessed Lord himself than by 
any other of the messengers of God. He constantly 
addressed men as in a hopeless and helpless state of 
sin and misery, from which nothing hut the almighty 
power of God could deliver them. Of the mass of 
mankind thus lying under the just displeasure of 
God, he speaks of those whom the Father had given 
him, who should certainly come to him, and whom he 
would without fail bring into his heavenly kingdom. 
He constant I} r refers to the good pleasure of God as 
the only assignable reason why one is saved and not 
another. “Many widows were in Israel in the days 
of Elias .... but unto none of them was Elias sent 
save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman, and 
she was a widow. And many lepers were in Israel in 
the time of Eliseus the prophet, and none of them was 
cleansed saving Naaman the Syrian” (Luke iv, 25-27). 
“At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, 
0 Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast 
hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast 
revealed them unto babes. Even so, Father; for so it 
seemed good in thy sight” (Matt, xi, 25, 2G). “To 
you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom 
of God, but to others in parables ; th it seeing they 
might not see, and hearing they might not under- 
stand” (Luke viii, 10). “All that the Father hath 
given me shall come to me; and him that eometh to 
me I will in no wise east out. . . . And this is the 
Father’s will which hath sent me, that jt'all which he 
hath given me I should lose nothing, but raise it up 
again at the last day” (John vi, 37, 30). “No man 
can come to me except the Father draw him ; and I 
will raise him up at the last day” (v. 44). “No man 
can come to me except it were given unto him of my 
Father” (v. 65). “Ye are not of the world, but I have 
chosen you out of the world” (John xv, 10). “ Ye be- 

lieve not because ye are not of my sheep, as 1 said 
unto von. My sheep hear my voice, and I know 
them, and they follow me : and I give unto them eter- 
nal life ; and they shall never perish, neither shall any 
man pluck them out of my hand. My Father, which 
gave them me, is greater than all ; and no man is able 
to pluck them out of my Father’s hand. I and my 
Father are one” (John x, 26-2H). “ Thou hast given 

him power over all flesh, that he might give eternal 
life to as many as thou hast given him” (John xvii, 
2). “Thine they were, and thou gavest them me” 
(v. 6). “ I pray not for the world, hut for them which 
thou hast given me ; for they are thine” (v. 0). ‘ 1 Holy 
Father, keep through thine own name those whom 
thou hast given me” (v. 11). “ Father, I will that they 
also, whom thon hast given me, he with me where I 
am.” Our Lord thus teaches that those who are saved 
are certain .Dersons chosen out of the world and given 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


128 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


to him by the Father ; that those thus given to him 
certainly come to him ; that this certainty is secured 
by the drawing of the Father; and that those thus 
given to him are certainly saved. 

7. There is an intimate relation between truth and 
Christian experience. The one accords with the other. 
What the Bible teaches of the sinfulness of man, the 
believer feels to be true concerning himself. What it 
teaches of the helplessness and dependence of the sin- 
ner, his own experience teaches him to be true; what 
is said of the nature and effects of faith answers to 
what he tinds in his own heart. If, therefore, the Bi- 
ble teaches that it is of God, and not of himself, that 
the believer is in Christ Jesus; that he, and not oth- 
ers, repent and believe; that he has been made to 
hear the divine voice, while others remain deaf — this 
will find a response in the bosom of the experienced 
Christian. We consequently find all these truths im- 
pressed upon the common consciousness of the Church, 
as it finds expression in its liturgies, its prayers, 
praises, and confessions. “ Not unto us, not unto ns, 
O Lord, but unto thy name be the glory,” is the spon- 
taneous language of the believer’s heart. It is not in 
experimental religion, in the theology of the heart, 
that the children of God differ, but in the form in 
which the understanding undertakes to reduce these 
facts of Scripture experience to logical consistency. 

S. As there is this correspondence between the 
truths of the Bible and religious experience, there is a 
like analogy between the providence of God and the 
dispensations of his grace. He is not more sovereign 
in the one than in the other. It is of him that we 
were born in a Christian land and not heathendom ; 
among Protestants instead of in Spain or Italy; of 
Christian parents and in the bosom of the Church in- 
stead of being the children of the irreligious and im- 
moral. It is the “ Lord that maketh poor and maketh 
rich; he bringeth low and lifteth up” (1 Sam. ii, 7). 
“ God pntteth down one and setteth up another” (Psa. 
Ixxv, 7). “ It is he giveth power to get wealth” (Deut. 
viii,lS). “ He giveth wisdom to the wise, and knowl- 
edge to them w ho know’ understanding” (Dan. ii, 12). 
“The Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and 
giveth it to whomsoever he wills” (iv, 17). The Bible 
is full of this doctrine. God governs all his creatures 
and all their actions, “lie worketh all things after 
the counsel of his own will” (Eph. i, 11). This is a 
truth of even natural religion ; at least it is recognised 
by all Christians. They pray for favorable seasons, 
for protection from disease and accident, and from the 
malice of their enemies. When the pestilence sw’eeps 
over the land, and one is taken and another left, we 
all say, “ It is the Lord, let him do what seemeth right 
in his sight.” All that Augustinians teach concern- 
ing election is, that God acts in the dispensation of 
grace as he does in his providential government of the 
world. If sovereignty be consistent with justice and 
goodness in the one case, it must he in the other. 

The difficulty which is usually felt on this subject 
arises from looking at only one aspect of the case. It 
is true that God gives health, wisdom, riches, power, 
the knowledge of the truth, saving grace, and life ev- 
erlasting, according to his good pleasure. lie exer- 
cises the prerogative of having mercy upon whom he 
will have mercy. It is true that what in fact occurs 
God intended to permit. Although he can, as all 
Christians admit, control the nets of free agents, he 
permitted the fall of man. He permits the present 
amount of sin and misery in the world. If so be that 
multitudes perish in their sins, it is undeniable that 
God intended, for w'ise reasons, to permit them to per- 
ish. While all this is true, it is no less true that he 
never interferes with the free agency of his rational 
creatures. If a man of the world determines to make 
the acquisition of wealth the end of his life, he is per- 
fectly free in forming that determination.' If he de- 
termines by diligence and honesty to accomplish his 


object, or if he chooses to resort to deceit and fraud, 
lie is in both cases free and responsible. On the other 
hand, if a man determines to make the salvation of his 
soul and the service of Christ the great end of his be- 
ing, he also is perfectly free in the choice he makes. 
If God makes him willing, he does not act unwillingly. 
Paul was never more free in his life than when he 
made a complete surrender of himself to Christ, say- 
ing, “Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?” No 
man, we may well believe, ever sought Christ with 
the diligence and constancy, under the guidance of the 
Gospel, which the men of the world exhibit who failed 
of being saved. All who perish under the knowledge 
of the truth perish because they deliberately prefer 
the world to God. 

The importance of the doctrine in question arises 
from the fact that, in the present state of human na- 
ture, if God bv his almighty power did not convert 
some from the error of their way, no man would be 
saved. If he left all to themselves, and to those in- 
fluences of the Spirit common to all who hear the Gos- 
pel, all would continue in their sins. Ilad not Christ 
by his omnipotence healed some lepers, none would 
have been healed ; had he not opened some sightless 
eyes, all the blind would have continued in darkness. 

The practical effect of the doctrine, that we are en- 
tirely helpless in our sin and guilt, lying at the mercy 
of God, is to lead us to cast ourselves at his feet, sav- 
ing, God be merciful to us sinners! As the deaf, and 
blind, and leprous, under a sense of helplessness and 
misery, crowded to Christ for healing, so souls bur- 
dened with the leprosy of sin are constrained to look 
to him for help, and those who come to him he will in 
no wise cast out. (C. H.) 

J I . The Doctrine of Election from the Methodist P.oint 
of View. — 1. John Wesley sums up his view of elec- 
tion as follows: “l believe it commonly means one 
of these two things : (1.) A divine appointment of some 
particular men to do some particular work in the 
world. And this election I believe to be not only per- 
sonal, but absolute and unconditional. Thus Cyrus 
was elected to rebuild the Temple, and St. Paul, with 
the twelve, to preach the Gospel. But I do not find 
this to have any necessary connection with eternal 
happiness. Nay, it is plain it has not ; for one who 
is elected in this sense may yet he lost eternally. 
‘Have I not chosen (elected) you twelve,’ saith our 
Lord, ‘yet one of you hath a devil ?’ Judas, you see, 
was elected as well as the rest ; yet is his lot with the 
devil and his angels. (2.) I believe election means, 
secondly, a divine appointment of some men to eternal 
happiness. But 1 believe this election to be condi- 
tional, as well as the reprobation opposite thereto. I 
believe the eternal decree concerning both is express- 
ed in these words : ‘ He that belie veth shall be saved ; 
he that bclieveth not shall be damned.’ And this de- 
cree, without doubt, God will not change, and man 
cannot resist. According to this, all true believers are 
in Scripture termed elect ; as all who continue in unbe- 
lief are so long properly reprobates , that is, unapproved 
of God, and without discernment touching the things 
of the Spirit. Now’ God, to whom all things are pres- 
ent at once, who sees all eternity at one view’, ‘ calleth 
the things that are not as though they were,’ the things 
that are not as yet as though they were now’ subsist- 
ing. Thus he calls Abraham ‘ the father of many na- 
tions’ before even Isaac was horn. And thus Christ 
is calk'd ‘the Lamb slain from the foundation of the 
world,’ though he w’as not slain, in fact, till some 
thousands of years after. In like manner God calleth 
true believers ‘ elect from the foundation of the world,’ 
although they w’ere not actually elect or believers till 
many ages after, in their several generations. Then 
only it was that they were actually elected when they 
were made ‘the sons of God by faith.’ Then w’ere 
they in fact chosen and taken out of the world ; 
‘elect,’ saith St. Paul, ‘through belief of the truth;’ 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


129 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


or, as St. Peter expresses it, ‘elect according to the I 
foreknowledge of God, through sanctification of the ! 
Spirit.’ This election I as firmly believe as I believe I 
the Scripture to be of God. But unconditional elec- | 
tion I cannot believe ; not only because I cannot find 
it in Scripture, but also (to waive all other considera- 
tions) because it necessarily implies unconditional rep- 
robation. Find out any election which does not imply 
reprobation, and 1 will gladly agree to it. But repro- 
bation I can never agree to while I believe the Scrip- 
tures to be of God, as being utterly irreconcilable to 
the whole scope of the Old and New Testaments” 
(1 Vorks, N. Y. edition, vi, 28, 29). 

2. The following summary statement is from the 
Rev. Dr. Wliedon : “ All God’s choices are elections. 
Some of these elections are unconditional, viz. those 
which relate to material objects, the absolute disposing 
of which violates no free agency. But there is also 
a class of conditional elections or predeterminations 
by God, which are so far contingent as that they are 
conditioned upon the actual performance of certain free 
acts by the finite agent as foreseen. Those free acts, 
required by God as conditions to this election, are by 
divine grace placed in the power of every responsible 
agent, so that the primary reason why any are not 
elected is that they do not exercise their power of 
meeting those conditions. And since every responsi- 
ble agent has the power to make his own calling and 
election sure, and every elect person has full power to 
reject the conditions, so it is not true that the number 
of the elect can be neither increased nor diminished. 
Every man lias gracious powers to be elected accord- 
ing to the eternal purpose of God. All men may be 
saved. Every individual, by grace divine, may place 
himself in the number of those who are chosen from 
before the foundation of the world. The reprobates 
are those who, abusing the conferred grace of God, re- 
sisting the Holy Spirit, reject the conditions of salva- . 
tion, and so fail to present the necessary tests to their | 
election. The elect are chosen unto good works, to , 
holy faith, to persevering love, to a full manifestation j 
of the power of the Gospel during their probationary 
life, and upon their full performance of this their work 
and mission, they attain, through grace divine, to a 
rich, unmerited salvation” (. Bibliotheca Sacra , April, 

1862, p. 268). 

3. The following statement and argument is chiefly 
abridged from Watson, Theological Institutes, pt. ii, eh. 
xxvi. Three kinds of election are mentioned in Scrip- 
ture, viz. : 

i. The election of individuals to perform some particu- 
lar service , which has no necessary connection with 
their salvation. Cyrus was God’s chosen servant to 
promote the rebuilding of his Temple. The apostles 
of our Lord were elected to their office : “ Have I 
not chosen you twelve ?” This was an act of sover- 
eign choice for which Christ gave no reason. He 
made no apologies to those disciples who were not 
chosen, and he never allowed any one who had the 
call to refer to anything meritorious in himself as the 
cause. ITc is the Lord of his Church. Great mis- 
chief has been done by confounding this election to 
office, which in its nature must be unconditional, with 
personal election to salvation, dependent upon faith 
and perseverance. St. Paul had an unconditional elec- 
tion to the same office from which Judas fell. He was 
a “chosen” vessel to be the apostle of the Gentiles. 

ii. The second kind of election is that of communi- 
ties or bodies of people to eminent religious privileges to 
accomplish, through their means, the merciful purpo- 
ses of God in benefiting other nations. This was 
once applicable to the Jews, as it is now to the Chris- 
tians. “ You only have I chosen of all the families 
of the earth.” “The Lord thy God hath chosen thee 
to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all people 
that are upon the face of the earth.” This fact may 
in part account for the frequent and familiar use of 

III.— X 


the terms elect , chosen , and peculiar in the New Testa- 
ment, when the apostles are writing to the churches. 
This, however, does not explain fully the reason for 
the use of these terms. The abrogation of the church- 
state of the Jews, and the admission of Gentiles to an 
equality with Jews as the people of God, will account 
for the adoption of this phraseology. The reason of 
their peculiar existence as a nation ceased with the 
coming of Christ, for he w’as a light to lighten the 
Gentiles, as well as the glory of his people Israel. 
There was a new election of a new people of God, to 
be composed of Jew's, not by virtue of their natural 
descent, but by faith in Christ ; and of Gentiles of all 
nations, also believers, and placed on an equal ground 
with the believing Jew’s (see Rom. xi). It is easy, 
therefore, to see what is the import of the 1 calling’ 
and ‘election’ of the Christian Church, as spoken of 
in the New Testament. It w r as not the calling and 
the electing of one nation in particular to succeed the 
Jew's, but it was the calling and the electing of believ- 
ers in all nations, wdierever the Gospel should be 
preached, to be in reality what the Jew's typically, 
and therefore in an inferior degree, had been — the vis- 
ible Church of God, ‘his people,’ under Christ ‘the 
head;’ with an authenticated revelation; with an ap- 
pointed ministry, never to be lost; with authorized 
w'orship ; with holy days and festivals ; with instituted 
forms of initiation ; and with special protection and 
favor. 

Now w'hat w'ere the effects of this election? (1.) 
Plainly the ancient election of the Jew’s to be God’s 
peculiar people did not secure the salvation of every 
Jew individually, nor did it exclude the non-elect Gen- 
tiles from adequate means of salvation ; nay, the elec- 
tion of the Jews w T as intended for the benefit of the 
Gentiles — to restrain idolatry and diffuse spiritual 
truth. (2.) As to the election of the Christian Church, 
it does not infallibly secure the salvation of every 
member of the Church, nor does it conclude anything 
against the saving mercy of God being still exercised 
as to those w ho are out of the Church ; nay, the very 
election of Christians (who arc the “salt” of the earth) 
is intended to bring those who are still in “ the world” 
to Christ. 

This collective election is often confounded by Cal- 
vinists with personal election. This is especially done 
in the interpretation of Paul’s argument in Romans 
ix-xi. But a just exegesis of these chapters show's 
that they can be interpreted only of collective elec- 
tion, not of personal election (see the full examin- 
ation of this in Watson, Institutes , ii, 312-325). The 
apostle does, indeed, treat of unconditional election in 
this discourse, but it is of unconditional collective elec- 
tion. 

iii. The third kind is personal election of individuals 
to be the children of God. Our Lord says, “ I have 
chosen you out of the world.” St. Peter says, “Elect 
according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, 
through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and 
sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ.” Then elec- 
tion must take place in time, and must be subsequent 
to the administration of the means of salvation. The 
“calling” goes before the “ election,” and the “ sprink- 
ling of the blood of Christ” before that “sanctifica- 
tion” through which they become “the elect” of God. 
In a w'ord, “ the elect” arc the body of true believers ; 
and personal election into the family of God is through 
personal faith. All who truly believe are elected ; 
and all to wdiom the Gospel is sent have, through the 
grace that accompanies it, the power to believe placed 
within their reach ; and all such might, therefore, at- 
tain to the grace of personal election. The doctrine 
of personal election is therefore brought down to its 
true meaning. Actual election cannot be eternal ; for 
from eternity the elect were not actually chosen out 
of the world, and from eternity they could not be 
“sanctified unto obedience.” The phrases “eternal 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


130 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


election’' anti “eternal decree of election” can there- 
fore mean only “an eternal purpose” to elect, a pur- 
pose formed in eternity to choose and sanctify in time 
“by the Spirit and the blood of Jesus.” lint when 
Calvinists graft on this the doctrine that God hath 
from eternity chosen in Christ unto salvation a set 
number of men (cerium quornndam kominum multitudi - 
nem ) unto holiness and eternal life, without cause or 
condition except his arbitrary will, they assert a doc- 
trine not to be found in the Word of God. It has two 
parts : (1) the choosing of a determinate number of 
men, which cannot be increased or diminished : (2) this 
choice is unconditional. Let us consider these two 
points. 

a. As to the choosing of a determinate number of men , 
it is allowed by Calvinists that they have no express 
scriptural evidence for this tenet. And, (1.) As to 
God’s eternal purpose to elect, we know nothing except 
from revelation, and that declares (a) that he willeth 
all men to be saved; (b) that Christ died for all men, 
in order to the salvation of all : and (c) the decree of 
God is, “lie that believeth shall be saved, and be that 
believeth not shall be damned:” and if God be un- 
changeable, this must have been his decree from all 
eternity : (d) if the fault of men’s destruction lies in 
themselves , then the number of the elect is capable of 
increase and diminution. (2.) This doctrine necessarily 
carries with it that of the unconditional reprobation of 
all mankind, except the elect, which cannot be recon- 
ciled with the moral attributes of God, i. e. with his 
love, wisdom, grace, compassion, justice, or sincerity; 
nor with the scriptural doctrine that God, is no respect- 
er of persons; nor with the scriptural doctrine of the 
eternal salvation of infants ; nor, finally, with the prop- 
er end of punitive justice, which is, to deter men from 
sin, and to add strength to the law of God. 

1. As to the second branch of this doctrine, viz. that 
personal election is unconditional. (1.) According to 
this doctrine, the Church of God is constituted on the 
sole principle of the divine purpose, not upon the basis 
of faith and obedience, which manifestly contradicts 
the Word of God, according to which Christ’s Church 
is composed not merely of men, as Peter, James, and 
John, but of Peter, James, and John believing and 
obeying; while all who “believe not,” and obey not, 
are of “the world,” not of “the chosen.” (2.) This 
doctrine of election ivithout respect to faith contradicts 
the history of the commencement and first constitution 
of the Church of Christ. The first disciples became 
such by believing; and before baptism men were re- 
quired to believe, so that their actnal election had re- 
spect to faith. (3.) There is no sncli doctrine in Scrip- 
ture as the election of individuals unto faith, and it is 
inconsistent with several passages which speak ex- 
pressly of personal election, e. g. John xv, 19; 1 Pet. 
i, 2 ; 2 Thess. ii, 13, 14. (4.) There is another class of 

texts in which the term election occurs, referring to 
believers, not personally, but as a body forming the 
Church of Christ, which texts, containing the irord 
election, are ingeniously applied to the support of the 
doctrine of unconditional personal election, when in 
fact they do not contain it. Such is Epli. i, 4, 5, 0. 
Now in regard to this text, it might be shown (a) that 
if personal election were contained in it, the choice 
spoken of is not of men merely, but of belieriny men ; 
but (b) it does not contain the doctrine of personal 
election, but that of the eternal purpose of God to con- 
stitute his visible Church no longer upon the ground 
of descent from Abraham, blit on that of faith in Christ. 
(f>.) Finally, the Calvinistic doctrine has no stronger 
passage to lean upon. We conclude by asking, if this 
doctrine be true, (a) Why are we commanded “to 
make our election sure?” ( b) Where does Scripture 
tell us of elect unbelievers ? (c) and bow can the Spirit 
of truth convince such of sin and danger, when they 
are, in fact, in no danger ? 

The fundamental objection made by Calvinists to 


the Arminian doctrine is that it “subverts grace ! n 
How ? Because “ it is not an act of grace for the Most 
High to do justice!” Does this mean that God can- 
not be at once gracious and just? Grace, in this dis- 
cussion, is not opposed to Cod’s justice, but to man’s 
desert. If, indeed, human merit alone had entered into 
the question, the race would have ended with Adam ; 
j and it was only in virtue of the covenant of grace that 
descendants were born to him. Under that covenant 
God is bound, not, indeed, by any desert of man (for 
that would preclude grace), but by his own faithful- 
ness, to offer salvation in Christ to all who fell in 
Adam. This is the doctrine of Arminians; this, too, 
is the doctrine of Scripture. The Gospel system is 
called by St. Paul the “grace of God, given to us in 
Christ Jesus.” And he tells us that “the grace of 
God, which bringeth salvation to all men (») an >ri)- 
piog Trdmv drOptoTrotg) hath appeared” (Tit. ii, 11) 5 
that “the living God is the Saviour of all men, es- 
pecially those that believe” (1 Tim. iv, 10); that he 
“ will have all men to be saved, and to come unto 
the knowledge of the truth” (1 Tim. ii, 4). Accord- 
ing to the Gospel scheme, “As in Adam all die, so 
in Christ shall all be made alive.” This OeXppct Btoo 
is his determinate counsel — a decree “of his good 
pleasure.” “Not, however, that it would have been 
consistent for God to desert the human race, and leave 
it to perish ; the divine goodness forbids such a suppo- 
I sition. The simple meaning is that no external neces- 
sity compelled him to it, and that it was his free grace, 
without desert or worthiness on the part of man” 
(Knapp, Theol. § 88). Were God bound, by any merit 
in man, to restore freedom of will and moral power to 
man, there would be no grace in the act. But God 
may be bound by the perfections of his own character, 
and, in accordance with the scheme of human salva- 
tion which he in his infinite goodness has devised and 
announced, to do many things for man, which, so far 
as the recipient is concerned, are pure acts of grace. 

I The Augustiniau doctrine holds, in effect, that God 
displays his mercy in saving a portion of mankind by 
irresistible grace, and in “ destroying the rest by the 
simple rule of his own sovereignty.” The Metho- 
dist doctrine is that God, of his boundless philanthropy 
((fjt\av9nu)7ria. Tit. iii, 4), provides means for the sal- 
vation of the whole human race, gives grace to enable 
each man to appropriate that salvation to himself, and 
destroys none but those who wilfully refuse that grace. 
The former, in its fatalistic elements, is as much the 
doctrine of Mohammed as of Christ; the latter is the 
very “grace of the Gospel.” See Grace. 

III. Other Views on Election. — It is undeniable that 
the Augustin inn doctrine has been held by many of 
the greatest and subtlest intellects from Augustine’s 
time until now. It has a sort of fascination, especial- 
ly for masculine and vigorous natures. Is not the 
explanation probably to be found in the fact that such 
natures find “a deep peace in the belief that their own 
greatest efforts are not really efforts at all, but the 
natural fruits of a divine necessity; that they can nei- 
ther fail nor succeed so long as they obey implicitly, 

| but only transmit the energies and register the decrees 
; of a diviner might and wisdom ? No doubt there is a 
I great fascination in a mode of thought which almost 
obliterates the human instrument in the grandeur of 
the inevitable purpose. Calvinism is a personal and 
Christian way of merging the individual in the gran- 
j deur of a universal destiny” ( Spectator , July 2, 1864). 
Perhaps the greatest danger in the tendencies of mod- 
ern thought is that of the subversion of the moral 
! freedom of man by the general acceptance of the doc a 
trine that physical law is just as valid in the moral 
world as in t lie material. That the Calvinistic doc- 
trine tends in this direction cannot be denied. And this 
tendency is doubtless one of the grounds, if not the 
chief ground, of the modern reaction against Augus- 
tinianism among spiritual thinkers (as distinguished 


131 


ELEMENTS 


ELECTION OF GRACE 


from materialists) on the one hand, and of the various I 
schemes of modified Angustinhmism which have been 
proposed within the theological sphere as substitutes i 
for extreme Calvinism, as Baxterianism, the so-ealled 
moderate Calvinism (q. v.) and the New-England The- j 
ology (q. v.). A _ 

1. Dr. Nevin (Mercersburgli Review, April, 18o<, not j 
writing from the Arminian point of view) compares 
the New-Testament idea of election with the Calvin- 
istic as follows: “Are the references to the idea of 
election in the New Testament such, as a general 
thing, that they maybe fairly construed in the known 
and established sense of the Calvinistic dogma ; or are 1 
they so circumstanced and conditioned as to require 
plainly a different interpretation ? On this point there 
is no room for any serious doubt. The New-Testa- 
ment doctrine of election, as it meets us, for instance, 
in the epistles of St. l*eter, and rules continually the 
thinking and writing of St. Paul, is something essen- 
tially different from the doctrine of election which is 
presented to our view in Calvin’s Institutes. The 
proof of this is found sufficiently in one single consid- 
eration. The Calvinistic election involves, beyond the 
possibility of failure, the full salvation at last of all 
those who are its subjects ; there is no room to con- 
ceive of their coming short of this result in any single 
instance, made certain as it is in the form of a specific 
purpose and predetermination in the divine mind from 
all eternity. Election and glorification, the beginning 
and the end of redemption, are so indissolubly hound 
together that they may be considered different sides 
only of one and the same fact. The ‘elect’ in Cal- 
vin’s sense have no power really to fall from grace, 
or come short of everlasting life. But, plainly, the 
‘elect’ of whom the New Testament speaks, the ‘chos- 
en and called of God’ in the sense of St. Peter and 
St. Paul, are not supposed to possess any such advan- 
tage; on the contrary, it is assumed in all sorts of 
ways that their condition carries with it, in the present 
world, no prerogative of certain ultimate salvation 
whatever. They may forget that they were purged 
from their old sins, lose the benefit of their illumina- 
tion, make shipwreck of their faith, and draw' hack to 
everlasting perdition. They have it in their power to 
throw away the opportunities of grace, just as much 
as it lies in the power of men continually to waste in 
like manner the opportunities of mere nature. Their 
salvation is, after all, hypothetical, and suspended upon 
conditions in themselves which are really liable to fail 
in every case, and which with many do eventually fail 
in fact. Hence occasion is supposed to exist, in the 
sphere of this election itself, for all sorts of exhorta- 
tion and warning to those who are the subjects of it, 
having the object of engaging them to ‘make their 
calling and election sure .’ The tenor of all is, ‘Walk 
worthy of your vocation. Only such as endure unto 
the end shall be saved. So run that ye may obtain.’ 
Plainly, w r e repeat, the two conceptions are not the 
same. The difference here brought into view’ is such 
as to show unanswerably that the Calvinistic dogma 
is one thing, and the common New-Testament idea of 
election altogether another. The Calvinistic election 
terminates on the absolute salvation of its subjects ; 
that forms the precise end and scope of it, in such 
sort that there is no room to conceive of its failing to 
reach this issue in any single case. The N.-T. elec- 
tion, as it enters into the thinking of St. Peter and St. 
Paul, terminates manifestly on a state or condition 
short of absolute salvation. Whatever the distinction 
may involve, for those who are its subjects, in the wry 
of saving grace, it docs not reaeli out at once to the 
full issue of eternal life. The fact it serves to estab- 
lish and make certain for them is of quite another 
character and kind ; it sets them in the way of salva- 
tion, hut it does not make their salvation sure.” 

2. INlartensen ( Christian Dogmatics , Edinb. 1866), 
a modern Lutheran divine, remarks that Calvin “ con- 


founds predestination with the election of grace. The 
separation which is only temporal he made eternal, be- 
cause he laid its foundations in the eternal counsel of 
God. God, according to him, made from eternity a 
twofold election, because he hath foreappointed certain 
persons to faith and to blessedness, and certain others 
to unbelief and everlasting damnation. This awful 
election he further maintained to be purely uncondi- 
tional, and thus he mistook the true relations between 
the divine and the human. . . . From Calvin's point 
of view man has no history— at least so far as history 
includes the idea of a temporal and free life in which 
what is as yet undecided will be decided; all is de- 
cided beforehand — existence, life, destiny. . . . The 
true basis of the doctrine of election is given in the 
Lutheran doctrine of universal grace and conditional 
decrees” (§ 206-210). 

3. Browne, bishop of Ely, in his Exposition of the 
Thirty-nine Articles (N. Y. 1865, 8 vo), gives a pretty 
full history of the doctrine of election, and maintains, 
in substance, the theory of “ecclesiastical election,” 
viz. that, as the “Jew's of old were God’s chosen peo- 
ple, so now is the Christian Church ; that any bap- 
tized member of the Church is one of God’s elect, and 
, that this election is from God’s irrespective and un- 
1 searchable decree. Here, therefore, election is to bap- 
tismal privileges, not to final glory; and the elect are 
identical with the baptized ; and the ‘ election’ consti- 
tutes the Church” (p. 402). Ilis conclusion, from an 
examination of the passages of Seripture bearing on 
the question, is, “that the revelation which God has 
given us concerns his will and purpose to gather to- 
1 getlier in Christ a Church chosen out of the world, and 
that to this Church, and to every individual member of 
! it, he gives the means of salvation. That salvation, 
if attained, will he wholly due to the favor of God, 
which first chooses the elect soul to the blessings of 
the baptismal covenant, and afterwards endues it with 
power to live the life of faith. If, on the other hand, 
the proffered salvation be forfeited, it will be in conse- 
quence of the faults and wickedness of him that rejects 
it. Much is said in Scripture of God’s will that all 
shall be saved, and of Christ’s death as sufficient for 
all men ; and we hear of none shut out from salvation 
but for their own faults and demerits. IMore than 
this cannot with certainty he inferred from Scripture, 
for it appears most probable that what w T e learn there 
concerns only predestination to grace, there being no 
revelation concerning predestination to glory” (p.442). 
See also, for views somewhat similar, Faber, Primitive 
Doctrine of Election (New York, 1840, 8vo) ; Fry, Essay 
on Election (Loud. 1*64). For the further literature, 
see Armtnianism ; Predestination. 

Election of Pope. See Cardinals ; Con- 
clave ; Pope. 

El-eloTie-Xs'iael (Hebrew El Elohey Yisrael 
Mighty One, God of Israel ; Sept. 

, o 3 tog ’[<rpai]\; Vnlg. Fortissimus Deus Israel ), the 
name bestowed by Jacob on the altar which he erect- 
ed facing the city of Sheehem, in the piece of culti- 
vated land upon which he had pitched his tent, and 
which he afterw'ards purchased from the Bene-Hamor 
(Gen. xxxiii, 20). This compound term designates 
God as the being who can do whatever seems good to 
him, and who, in the recent experience of Jacob, had 
peculiarly manifested his power in overcoming the 
deep-rooted enmity of Esau, and thereby averting the 
most alarming evil which Jacob had ever been called 
to encounter. See Jacob. 

Elements (oroiyao). The etymon both of the Eng- 
lish and Greek word conveys their primary meaning : 
thus, elements, from “ elementa,” the alimenta from 
which things are made, and nroiylia , from crra\w,“to 
' go up by steps” — th efrst principles whence the subse- 
quent parts of things (aroiyovot) proceed in order. It 
seems to have been believed, from a very early period, 


ELEM-RECIIOKIM 


132 


ELEPHANT 


that all bodies consist of certain first, specific ingredi- 
ents (0Toi\'e7«), into which they are all resolvable, 
although different opinions prevailed respecting the 
number and nature of these primary constituents of 
things. Ilesyehius explains ormyaa by 7 rep, vdiop, 
yip Kui at’ipy cup’ ibv ra o utfiara — fire, water, earth, and 
air, of which bodies arc formed. This, which is the 
simplest, may be called the primary sense of the word. 
A secondary use of the word relates to the organized 
parts of which anything is framed, as the letters of the 
alphabet (Hesychius gives also ypapparct), these be- 
ing the elements of words; also the elements, rudi- 
ments, or first principles of any art or science. 

The word occurs in its primary sense, Wis. vii, 17, 
avGTctmv KQGfiov Kct i f idpyeiav GTOi\Uiov, “the con- 
stitution of the world and the operation of the ele- 
ments;” also xix, 18. It is used in the same sense , 2 
Pet. iii, 10, orotyelrt ct KavGovptva A vOijGOvrctt, and 
ver. 12, TtjKirai , “ the elements burning will be dis- 
solved and melted.” The Jews, in Peter’s time, spoke 
of four elements (Josephus, Ant. iii, 7, 7). 

The word occurs in a secondary sense in Gal. iv, 3-9, 
ra Groi\eicL tov Koapav, “the elements or rudiments 
of the world,” which the apostle calls ciodevp Kai 7 rrw- 
y a oroiyna, “weak and poor elements.” He intro- 
duces the word to preserve the unity of his comparison 
of the law to a pedagogue (iii, 24), and of persons under 
it to children under tutors; and by the elements or 
rudiments of the world he evidently means that state 
of religious knowledge which had subsisted in the 
world, among Jews and Gentiles, before Christ ; the 
weakness of which, among the Jews, may be seen in 
Heb. vii, 18, 19 ; x, 1 ; and among the Gentiles, in the 
epistle to the Pomans, passim. “The elements of the | 
world” occurs again, Col. ii, 8 - 20 , in the same sense, as 
appears from the various allusions both to the terms 
used in Grecian philosophy, and the dogmas of the 
Jtulaizers in the subsequent verses; the phrase being 
possibly suggested to the apostle by his previous use 
of it to the Galatians. The word GTot\uct, in Heb. v, 
12, is restricted, by the addition riov \oyuov too Bcoo, 
to the rudiments of Christianity (see Roscnmuller and 
Benson on the passages). — lvitto, s. v. 

II. In the Sacraments. — The materials used in the 
sacraments are called the elements. Water is the ele- 
ment of baptism, bread and wine are the elements of 
the Eucharist. “This use of the word ‘elements’) 
(oro/Yfifl) sprung from the philosophy of the school j 
divines, and evidently had reference to the change i 
supposed to take place after consecration. The Church 
of England has discarded the term in her services, and 
has introduced instead the word ‘creatures’ (‘These 
thy creatures of bread and wine’) in the communion 
service, though the word ‘elements’ is found in one 
of the rubrics of that office” (Eden). “In all the 
Jewish sacrifices of which the people were partakers, 
the viands or materials of the feast were first made 
God’s by a pious oblation, and then afterwards eaten 
by the communicants, not as man’s, but as God’s pro- 
visions, who, by thus entertaining them at his own 
table, declared himself reconciled, and again in cov- 
enant with them. And therefore our blessed Saviour, 
when he instituted the new sacrament of bis own body 
and blood, first gave thanks and blessed the elements 
— that is, offered them up to God as Lord of the crea- 
tures, as the most ancient fathers expound that pas- 
sage ; who for that reason, whenever they celebrated 
the holy Eucharist, always offered the bread and wine 
for the communion to God upon the altar by this or 
some short ejaculation ; ‘ Lord, we offer tliee thine own 
out of what thou hast bountifully given ns’” (Bishop 
Patrick, cited by Hook, Church Dictionary , s. v.). 
Elem-Recho'kim. Sec Jonath-Elem-Recho- 

KIM. 

E'leph (Ileb. with the art. ha-F/lepk , eAjsIT Vulg. 
Eleph), one of the second group of towns allotted to 


1 Benjamin, and named between Zelali and Jerusalem 
[ (Josh, xviii, 28). It is possibly the ruined site mark- 
ed as Katamon on Van de Velde’s “ Map of the envi- 
| rons of Jerusalem,” about one mile S.AV. of Jerusa- 
lem. The Sept, unites the preceding name with this, 
under the compound form 2 /;\ a\e<p (Vat. MS. I'cAf- 
! K«V), and accordingly assigns only thirteen (ctKctrpue) 

I cities to this group. Eusebius and Jerome (in their 
j Onomasticon , s. v.) mention Sela (EfA«, <pt>\ijg llevia- 
piv) as distinct from Eleph. The Peshito strangely 
J renders the name as Geblra. From the occasional use 
of in the bucolic sense of “ox,” it has been con- 
I jectured that “Eleph and its villages” was a pastoral 
district. The extremely frequent numerical sense, 
however, of C?>t, a thousand, points rather to th c pnp- 
1 ulousness of these towns, which lay in the neighborhood 
of Jebus or Jerusalem. Schultens (Prov. Solom. ii, 17) 
refers to the Arabic alaph, “union,” in illustration of 
both the numerical and the domestic sense of the Heb. 
root. (See further Meier, Ileb. 11". w . b. p. 379.) Si- 
mon (in liis Onomasticon , p. 141) refers to the name of 
the Cilician town 1VI vplcnJpog in illustration, and to 
Deut. i, 11 ; Psa. xei, 7, etc., for an indefinite use of 
T?X, to designate a great multitude. Fiirst, in His 
Ilebrdisches Worferb. (i, 91, 98), finds in Zeeh. ix, 7 
another mention of our town Eleph, under the form 
or TSX, Alluph; which, like Jebusi , he makes a 
j frontier city belonging to Benjamin and Judah. He 
quotes from Jephet (or Jefet ben-Ali), a Jewish com- 
mentator who lived at Jerusalem in the 10 th century, 
a statement that the words of Josh, xviii, 28, “bs 
wPXil, are, in fact, the designation of but a 
) single city — or still less, apparently, than even that, 
for he further quotes Jefet as saying that in his time a 
ward of Jerusalem bore that aggregate name, in which 
was the sepulchre of Zeeliariah. We reject this view 
as not only doing violence to the distinct enumeration 
of the group of cities given in Josh, xviii, 28, but as 
dist urbing the sense of the passage in Zech. ix, 7 (see 
Hengstenberg, Christology , iii, 392-394). The phrase 
T 2 X ( tribe-prince in Judah), used by the 
prophet in this passage, is by him repeated twice (see 
Zeeh. xii, 5, 6 ). In the Pentateuch and 1 Chron. the 
same noun, in the plural, designates the chief- 
tains or “dukes” of Edom. For some valuable re- 
marks on the phrase, as indicating the genuineness of 
the passages in Zechariab, see also Hengstenberg, i\% 
67, note. — Kit to, s. v. 

Elephant (tXerpag) does not occur in the text of 
the canonical Scriptures of the A. V., except in the ndj. 
khf^avTivog, “ of ivorv,” Rev. xviii, 12. But the an- 
imal is believed to be referred to in the Heb. 
elephant's tooth , i. e. “ivory,” 1 Kings x, 22; 2 Chron. 
ix, 21 . See Ivoky, Some have also regarded it as 
identical with the Behemoth (q. v.), as in the margin 
of Job xl, 15. Elephants, however, are repeatedly 
mentioned in the 1st and 2 d books of Maccabees as be- 
ing used in warfare. The way in which they were 
used in battle, and the method of exciting them to 
fight, is described in 1 Mace. vi. The essential sylla- 
ble of the Greek (and modern) name seems to be de- 
rived from that which all the nations of the south and 
west of Asia have for many ages generally used, name- 
ly, fil. feel, pheel, pldl, b"2 ; for we find it in the Chal- 
dee (SO n D, pila' , Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. col. 1722), Syr- 
iac, Persian, Arabic*, and Turkish, extending to the 
east far beyond the Ganges, where, nevertheless, in 
the indigenous tongues, anel, waranam, and haft l are 
existing names. See Cassel, De variis eleph. denomi- 
natt. in the Symbol, lit. lirem. 1, i, 136 sq. ; Zeitschr. f. 
Kunde cles Morgenl. 1 V, i, 12 sq. 

It is well known that these animals were anciently 
employed in battles, originally in India (Aristotle, 


ELEPHANT 


133 


ELEPHANT 


Anirn. ix, 1; Pliny, vi, 22; /Elian, Anim. xiii, 8, 22; 
com]). Ritter, Erdk. v, 903 sq.), where they are com- 
monly stronger and more sagacious than in Africa 
(Diod. Sic. ii, 1G ; Pliny, vi, 22 ; Philostr. Apol. ii, 12 ; 
Cnrtius, viii, 9, 17; /Elian, Anim. xvi, 15; yet see 
Herod, iv, 191 ; comp. Burmeister, in the Hall. Ennjcl. 
xxxiii, 2G5 sq.) ; next in Persia (although only indirect- 
ly before the times of Alexander, Arrian, Alex, iii, 11, 
6); later also in Asia Minor and even in the West (Flor. 
i, 18; Livy, xxxi, 36; xxxvii, 40; xxxviii, 39; llir- 
tius, Bell. Afr . xlviii, 8G ; Pliny, viii, 5 ; Yeget. Mil. 
iii, 24; comp. Pausanias, i, 12, 4); and the Maccabees 
had to contend with such trained elephants in the Syr- 
ian armies of the Selencidaj (comp. Plutarch, Bemetr. 
xxviii sq. ; Appian, Syr. 4G; Polybius, xi, 32) in im- 
mense numbers (comp. Livy, xxxvii, 39; Pliny, vi, 
22 ; Polybius, v, 53). Military elephants were accus- 
tomed to carry on their backs a wooden tower (Pliny, 
viii, 7; Philostr. Apoll. ii, G; Juvenal, xii, 110; Livy, 
xxxvii, 40), in which were a number of soldiers (four 
in the Syrian army of Antiochus the Great, according 
to Livy, 1. c. ; according to Philostr. Apoll. ii, 12, about 
ten to fifteen; in India only three, /Elian, Anim. xiii, 
19; comp. Plim r , 1. c. ; certainly not thirty-two, as is 
stated in 1 Macc. vi, 37 : in modern India only four or 
five persons are placed in the elcpliant-tower, Munro, 
Hist, of War in East India , p. 91 [comp. Schlegel, Ind. 
Bibl. 1, ii, 17G; Bochart, i, 2G2; and see Wernsdorf, 
De fide Macc. p. 119 sq.], although an elephant can 
easily travel with 4000 pounds on his back) ; and their 
courage was artificially stimulated by wine (./Elian, 
Anim. xiii, 8; on the fondness of these animals for 
spirituous drinks, see Thevcnot, Voyage , iii, 89). This 
illustrates 3 Macc. v, 2; also 1 Mace, vi, 34. Each 
equipped elephant was surrounded in battle by more 
than a hundred soldiers, to protect him on the side (1 
Macc. vi, 35 sq.), and thus were these animals conve- 
niently distributed along the whole line (1 Macc. vi, 
35 ; comp. Livy, xxxvii, 40 ; Curtius, viii, 12, 7). Oc- 
casionally, however, the elephant, becoming frighten- I 
ed, did his master more harm than the enemy (Curtins, 
iii, 13, 15; viii, 14, 1G; ix, 2, 20). The driver of a | 
single armed elephant was called Ti^oc, i. e. an Indian 
(1 Macc. vi, 37), while the commander of a battalion 
of such was styled kXtQavrdpxiig, an elephantarch (2 
Macc. xiv, 12; 3 Macc. v, 4). See generally Bochart, 
Illeroz . i, 233 sq. ; Schlegel, Indlsche Bibliothek , I, ii, 
129 sq. ; Armandi, Ilistoire milltaire des rllphants (Par. 
1844); Oken, Lekrb. dev Naturgesch. Ill, ii, 783 sq. ; 
Tavernier, Voyage , ii, 72 sq. ; Phil. a. S. Trinitate, 
Reisebeschr. p. 38G sq. ; fig. in Schreber’s Sciugethiere, I 
vi, pi. 317. 

The elephant’s tusks, growing from the upper jaw 
(Aristotle, Anim. ii, 4; /Elian, Anim. xi, 37), which 
the ancients sometimes mistook for horns (/Elian, 
Anim. iv, 31; vii, 2 ; xi, 37; Pausan. v, 12, 1; Pliny, 
viii, 4 ; xviii, 1 ; Philostr. Apoll, ii, 13 ; perhaps the 
Vr? of Ezek. xxvii, 15; comp. Ludolf, Hist. 

sEthiop. i, 10, 29 ; but see Ilavernick, in loe.) or ivory 
(ZYinp’::, or simply *j'J ; comp. Pott, in the Zeitschr . 
f. Morgenl. 1Y, i, 13 sq.), much earlier known in Asia 
Minor and Europe than the animal itself, were used 
b} 7 the Hebrews from the time of Solomon for orna- 
menting (overlaying, Pliny, xvi, 84) furniture (espe- 
cially the divan, Amos vi, 4; Philo, Opp. ii, 478;— 1 , 
Kings x, 18 ; Apulej. Metam. ii, p. 37, ed. Bip.) and 
chambers (1 Kings xx, 39 ; Amos iii, 15 ; Psa. xlv, 9 ; 
comp. Homer, Odyss. iv, 73 ; Diod. Sic. iii, 47 ; Pausan. 

i, 12, 4; Petron. 135; Horace, Od. ii, 18, 1 ; Lucan, x, 
119; Herodian, iv, 2, 3; /Elian, Var. Hist, xii, 39; 
Avien. 1200), also weapons (Cnrtius, viii, 5, 1). Like- 
wise vessels and images of the gods (Pausan. v, 12, 1 ; 

ii, 17, 4; Virgil, Georg, i, 480; Pliny, xxxvi, 4; comp. | 
Hermann, Ad Lucian, conscrib. hist. p. 303) were con- 
structed of it (Rev. xviii, 12) ; while the Tyrians, who 
disposed of ivory as an article of commerce (Ezek. I 


xxvii, 15), carried luxury so far as to make the row- 
ers’ benches of their ships of boxwood inlaid with 
ivory. For the estimation in which ivory was an- 
ciently held, and its various uses among the Greeks 
and Romans, see Heyne, Antiquar. Aufs . ii, 149 sq. 
(also in the Not), commentatt. Soc . Goetting. I, ii, 9G 
sq.); Schlegel, ut sup), p. 137 sq. ; Kype, Observe, ii, 
461 sq. ; Muller, Arclidol. p. 418 sq. ; Bottiger, 4r- 
chaol. Andeut. i, lt>8 sq. Solomon brought it by sea 
from Ophir (1 Kings x, 22 ; comp. ver. 11). — Winer, 
i, ol5. 



Asiatic Elephant. 

The animals of this genus consist at present of two 
very distinct species, one a native of Southern Asia, 
once spread considerably to the westward of the Up- 
per Indus, and the other occiqying southern and mid- 
dle Africa to the edge of the great Sahara. In a fossil 
state, however, there are six more species clearly dis- 
tinguished. The elephant is the largest of all terres- 
trial animals, sometimes attaining above eleven feet 
of vertical height at the shoulders, and weighing from 
five to seven thousand pounds : he is of a black or 
slaty-ash color, and almost destitute of hair. The 
head, which is proportionably large, is provided with 
two broad pendulous ears, particularly in those of the 
African species, which are occasionally six feet in 
length. This species has also two molar teeth on each 
side of the jaw, both above and below, and only three 
toe-nails on each of the hind feet, whereas the Asiatic 
species is provided with only one tooth on each side 
above and below, and, though both have tusks or de- 
fences, the last mentioned has them confined solely to 
the males: they are never of more than 70 pounds in 
weight, often much less, and in some breeds even to- 
tally wanting ; while in the African both sexes are 
armed with tusks, and in the males they have been 
known seven feet in length, and -weighing above 150 
pounds each. The forehead of the African is low, 
that of the Asiatic high ; in both the eyes are compar- 
atively small, with a malevolent expression, and on 
the temples are pores which exude a viscous humor ; 
the tail is long, hanging nearly to the heels, and dis- 
tichous at the end. But the most remarkable organ 
of the elephant, that which equally enables the animal 
to reach the ground and to grasp branches of trees at 
a considerable height, is the proboscis or trunk — a 
cylindrical elastic instrument, in ordinary condition 
reaching nearly down to the ground, but contractile 
to two thirds of its usual length, and extensile to one 
third beyond it; provided with nearly 4000 muscles 
crossing each other in such a manner that the probos- 
cis is flexible in every direction, and so abundantly 
supplied with nerves as to render the organ one of the 
most delicate in nature. Within is the double canal 
of the nostrils, and at the terminal opening a finger- 
like process, with which the animal can take up very 
minute objects and grasp others, even to a writing 


ELEPHANT 


134 


ELEUSINIAN MYSTERIES 


pen, anti mark paper with it. By means of the pro- ! 
boseis the elephant lias a power of suction capable of 
raising nearly 200 pounds’ weight; and with this in- 
strument he gathers food from trees and from the 
earth, draws up drink to squirt it down his throat, 
draws corks, unties small knots, and performs num- 
berless other minute operations; and, if necessary, 
tears down branches of trees more than five inches in ; 
diameter with no less dexterity than strength. The 
gait of an elephant is an enormous stride, performed 
with his high and ponderous legs, and sufficiently rap- 
id to require brisk galloping on horseback to outstrip 
him. Elephants are peaceable towards all inoffensive 
animals; sociable among themselves, and ready to 
help each other; gregarious in grassy plains, but more 
inclined to frequent densely-wooded mountain glens; 
at times not unwilling to visit the more arid wastes, ' 
but fond of rivers and pools, where they wallow in 
mud and water among reeds and under the shade of 
trees. They are most assuredly more sagacious than 
observers, who, from a few visits to menageries, com- 
pare them with dogs, are able to appreciate, for on this 
question we must take into account, on the one hand, 
the physical advantages of the proboscis added to the 
individual experience gained by an animal slow in 
growth, and of a longevity exceeding a century, but 
still placed in contact with man after a birth free in 
every sense, where his powers expand without human 
education ; while, on the other hand, clogs are the off- 
spring of an immense number of generations, all fash- 
ioned to the will of a master, and consequently with 
innate dispositions to acquire a certain education. In 
Griffith’s Cuvier are found several anecdotes illustra- 
ting the sagacity of these animals, to which we shall add 
only a single one, related by the late Captain Hobson, 
II. N., as observed by himself at Travancore, where 
several of these animals were employed in stacking 
teak-timber balk. They had scarcely any human aid 
or direction, but each beam being successively noosed 
and slung, they dragged it to the stack, raised one end 
itp, contrived to shove it forward, nicely watehing 
when, being poised by its own weight, the lower end 
would rise, and then, placing their foreheads against 
the butt end, they pushed it even on the stack ; the 
sling they unfastened and carried back to have it fit- 
ted again. In a wild state no other animal has the 
sagacity to break off a leafy branch, hold it as a fan, 
and use it as a brush to drive away flies. 

The Asiatic species, carrying the head higher, has 
more dignity of appearance, and is believed to have 
more sagacity and courage than the African, which, 
however, is not inferior in weight or bulk, and has 
never been in the hands of such experienced managers 
as the Indian mohants are, who have acquired such 
deep knowledge of the character of these beasts that 
they make them submit to almost incredible opera- 
tions ; such, for example, as suffering patiently the 
extraction of a decayed part of a tooth, a kind of chis- 
el and mallet being the instruments used for the pur- 
pose. Elephants walk under water as long as the end 
of the proboscis can remain above the surface, but when 
in greater depth they float with the head and back only 
about a foot beneath it. In this manner they swim 
across the broadest streams, and guide themselves by 
the sense of smelling till they reach footing to look 
about them and land. They are steady, assiduous 
workmen in many laborious tasks, often using discre- 
tion when they require some dexterity and attention 
in the performance. Good will is all man can trust to 
in directing them, for correction cannot be enforced 
beyond their patience; but flattery, good treatment, 
kind words, promises, and rewards, even to the wear 
of finery, have the desired effect. In history they ap- 
pear most conspicuous as formidable elements of battle. 
From the remotest ages theyAvere trained for war by 
the nations of India, and by their aid they no doubt 
acquired and long held possession of several regions of 


High Asia westward of the Indus. They are noticed 
in the ancient Mahabarata. According to Sauti, the 
relative force of elephants in an akshaushini , or great 
army corps, was one to each chariot of war, three horse- 
men, and five foot soldiers, or, rather, archers mounted 
on the animal’s back within a defensible hoicduh — in 
the West denominated a castle. Tlius one armed ele- 
phant, one chariot, and three horsemen, formed a paid 
or squad of at most eleven men, and, if there were oth- 
er bodies of infantry in the army, they are unnoticed. 
This enumeration is sufficient to show that in India, 
which furnished the elephants and the model of arm- 
ing them, there were only four or five archers, with or 
without the mohant or driver, and that, consequently, 
when the successors of Alexander introduced them in 
their wars in Syria, Greece, and even Italy, they could 
not be encumbered more than perhaps momentarily 
with one or two additional persons before a charge ; 
for the weight carried by a war-elephant is less than 
that of one used for burden, which seldom equals 2000 
pounds. In order to ascend his back when suddenly 
required, the animal will hold out one of his hind legs 
horizontally, allowing a person to step upon it until lie 
has grasped the crupper and crept up. hi t lie West, 
where they were considered for a time of great impor- 
tance, no doubt the squad or escort was more consid- 
erable than in the East, and may have amounted to 
thirty-two foot-soldiers, the number given, by some 
mistake, as if actually mounted, in 1 Macc. vi, 87. 
Although red colors are offensive to many animals, it 
may be observed that the use of mulberry-juice or 
grapes must have been intended as an excitement to 
their taste, for they are all fond of fruit. Wine, so as 
to cause an approach to intoxication, would render 
them ungovernable, and more dangerous than when 
in a state of fear. They do not require stimulants to 
urge them on in a modern battle, with all its flashes 
of tire, smoke, and explosion ; and red colors usually 
employed for their trappings produce more of a satis- 
factory feeling than rage. Judicious and long-con- 
tinued training is the only good remedy against sud- 
den surprises caused by objects not yet examined by 
their acutely-judging senses, or connected with former 
scenes of danger, which are alone apt to make them 
turn. It is likely that the disciplined steadiness of 
! well-armed ranks frightened them by their novelty 
' more than the shouts of Macedonian thousands, which 
must have been feeble in the ears of elephants accus- 
tomed to the roar of hundreds of thousands of Indians. 
It is probable that the Carthaginians made the exper- 
iment of training African elephants in imitation of 
Ptolemy Philadel plius : they are noticed in their army 
only in the first Punic war; and, from what appears 
of the mode of managing them, there is reason to be- 
lieve, as already noticed, that they were never so thor- 
oughly subdued as the Indian elephants (see Penny 
Cyclopedia, s. v.). — Kitto, s. v. 

Elettsinian Mjrsteries, the sacred rites with 
which the annual festival of Ceres was celel rated at 
Eleusis, a town in Attica, situated to the north-west 
of Athens, and opposite the island of Salami's. They 
were the most ancient and most venerated mysteries 
of Greece, and were probably at first a national and 
harvest festival instituted to thank Demeter for the 
I gift of fruit, to remember the barbaric times preceding 
the introduction of agriculture, and to rejoice at the 
progress made since. Both the founder of the myste- 
ries and the time of their foundation are unknown. It 
is probable that the first foundation of them was laid 
1 »v Thracians, who from Bocotia spread over Western 
Attica; and that they were farther developed by the 
Athenians themselves, especially at the time of the 
Pisistratidle. The place in which they were celebra- 
ted was the temple of Demeter at Eleusis, a spacious, 
almost quadratic structure, which bad been erected by 
the architect Iktinos, and was surrounded with a 
, double vestibule ( penbolos ). At the time when Her- 


ELEUSINIAN MYSTERIES 


135 


ELEUTIIEROPOLIS 


acles came to Athens to be initiated into the mysteries 
it was not yet permitted to admit any foreign Greek. 
In order not to violate the traditional laws, and at the 
same time not to offend the great hero, who was not 
less feared than venerated, the lesser mysteries were 
transferred to Agrie, a suburb of Athens, and with 
them Heracles had to be content. From this time the 
lesser mysteries served as a preparation for the great- 
er. The initiation into the mysteries was preceded 
by some devotional exercises, sacred rites, and sym- 
bolic aetions, the object of which was to divert the 
candidates for initiation for a time from the world, its 
pleasures and occupations, and to bring about in them 
a change of mind, and a longing for the disclosures to 
be made to them. Between initiation into the lesser 
and initiation into the greater one year had to elapse. 
The lesser were celebrated from the 19th to the 21st 
of the month Anthesterion (beginning of April); the 
greater one, the Eleusinian mysteries, were celebrated 
from the lGtli to the 25th of Boedromion (beginning 
of October). “On the first day (called ayurnios , the 
assembling), the neophytes, already initiated at the 
preparatory festival, met, and were instructed in their 
sacred duties. On the second day (called llalade, 
mystm, To the sea, ye initiated /), they purified them- 
selves by washing in the sea. On the third day, sac- 
rifices, comprising, among other things, the mullet- 
fish, and cakes made of barley from the Bharian plain, 
were ottered with special rites. The fourth day was 
devoted to the procession of the sacred basket of Ceres 
(the Kalathion). This basket — containing pomegran- 
ates, salt, poppy seeds, etc., and followed by bands of 
women carrying smaller baskets similarly filled — was 
drawn in a consecrated cart through the streets, amid 
shouts of ‘ Hail, Ceres !’ from the onlookers. The fifth 
day was known as the ‘ day of the torches,’ and was 
thought to symbolize the wanderings of Ceres in quest 
of her daughter. On it the mystic, led by the ‘dadu- 
chus,’ the torch-bearer, walked two by two to the tem- 
ple of the goddess, and seem to have spent the night 
there. The sixth day, called lacchus, in honor of the 
son of Ceres, was the great day of the feast. On that 
day the statue of lacchus was borne in pomp along the 
sacred way from the Ceramicns at Athens to Eleusis, 
where the votaries spent the night, and were initiated 
in the last mysteries. Till this stage of the proceed- 
ings they had been only my site ; but on the night of 
the sixth day they were admitted into the innermost 
sanctuary of the temple, and, from being allowed to 
behold the sacred things, became entitled to be called 
‘epoptai,’ or ‘ephori,’ i. e. spectators , or contemplutors. 
They were once more purified, and repeated their 
original oath of secrecy witli an imposing and awful 
ceremonial, somewhat resembling, it is believed, the 
forms of modern free-masonry. On the seventh day 
the votaries returned to Athens with mirth and music, 
halting for a while on the bridge over the Cephisus, 
and exercising their wit and satire against the specta- 
tors. The eighth day was called Epidauria, and was 
believed to have been added to the original number of 
the days for the convenience of those who had been 
unable to attend the grand ceremonial of the sixth 
da}% It was named in honor of .Esculapius, who ar- 
rived oil one occasion from his native city of Epidau- 
rus too late for the solemn rites, and the Athenians, 
unwilling to disappoint so distinguished a benefactor 
of mankind, added a supplementary day. On the 
ninth day took place the ceremony of the 4 Plemo- 
choa*,’ in which two earthen vessels filled with wine 
were turned one towards the east and the other to- 
wards the west. The attendant priests, uttering some ] 
mystic words, then upset both vessels, and the wine 
so spilt was ottered as a libation. Slaves, prosti- 
tutes, and persons who had forfeited their citizenship 
were excluded from the rites. During the period of 
the festival, none of those taking part in it could be 
arrested for any offence. Lycurgus, with a view to 


1 destroying distinctions of class, forbade any woman to 
ride to the Eleusinia in a chariot, under a penalty of 
G000 drachmae. The mysteries were celebrated with 
the most scrupulous secrecy. No initiated person 
might reveal what he had seen under pain of death, 
and no uninitiated person could take part in the cere- 
monies under the same penalty. The priests were 
chosen from t lie sacred family of the Euinolpidae, 
whose ancestor, Eumolpus, had been the special favor- 
j ite of Ceres. The chief-priest was called the ‘Hiero- 
phant,’ or ‘ Mystagogue next in rank to him was the 
Daduchus, or Torch-bearer ; after whom came the 
1 Hiero-Ceryx,’ or Sacred Herald, and the priest at the 
altar. Besides these leading ministers, there was a 
multitude of inferior priests and servants” (Chambers, 
Cyclop, s. v.). It was undoubtedly one chief aim of 
these mysteries to spread among the educated elasses 
of the people move elevated religions ideas than were 
held by the mass of the people, especially with regard 
to the immortality of the soul, the punishment of the 
j wicked, and the rewards of the good. The initiated 
J were supposed to be especially protected by the gods, 
and to be sure of the joys of the future life. See Ou- 
waroff, Essai sur ks Mysteres d' Eleusis (3d edit. Paris, 
181 G; Preller, Demeter und Persephone (ilamb. 1837); 
Mommsen, lleortologie. A ntiquar. Untersuchungen uber 
die stddt 'scheii Feste derA thener (Leipz. 18G4). (A. J. S.) 

Eleutheropolis ( EAt vdepoiroXiQ, free city), a 
place not named in Scripture, but which was an epis- 
copal city of such importance in the time of Eusebius 
and Jerome that they assumed it as the point whence 
to estimate the distances and positions of other cities 
in southern Palestine ( Onomast . s. v. Estherne, Sephe- 
la, Jermus, etc.; see 1 {eland, Pulsst. p. 410,411). It 
appears from these and many other notices that Eleu- 
theropolis was the capital of a large province during 
the fourth and fifth centuries of our era. It was also 
an episcopal city of Pahestina Prima (St. Paulo, Geogr. 
Sac. p. 30G; A blithe Ecclesiastics , p. G). Its site re- 
mained unknown for many centuries, though defined 
by several ancient writers with much minuteness. 
Eusebius states that the plain of Slieplieleli extends 
from Eleutheropolis westward and southward ( Ono- 
mast. s. v. Sephela), and hence it must have stood at 
the south-western base of the mountains of J uduh. He 
j also states that Bethshemesh was ten miles distant 
from it, on the road to Nicopolis ; and Jedna, six miles 
I on the road to Hebron ; and Sochoh, nine miles on the 
road to Jerusalem. All these places are now known, 
and the lines of road being traced and the distances 
measured, we find that the site indicated is Beit Jibrin 
(Kobiuson. Bib. Pes. ii, 348, 359, 398, 404-420, G42-G4G). 
In the Acta Sanctorum Marty rum, published by Asse- 
mani in Syriac, Greek, and Latin, Peter Abselama the 
martyr is said to have been born at Anea, which lay, 
according to the Syriac version, in the district of Beth 
Gnbrin , while both the Greek and Latin read in the 
district of Eleutheropolis ( ib . p. GG). This establishes 
the identity of Beth Gubrin and Eleutheropolis. Jo- 
sephus mentions a town in this neighborhood called 
Betaris, which some copies read B fjyafiptg, and it ap- 
pears to be the same place (IPar, iv, 8, 1). Under its 
ancient name Batogabra (Batroydfina, i. e. house of 
Gabra or Gabriel j), it is enumerated by Ptolemy 
among the cities of Palestine (v, 16), and it is also laid 
down as Bctogabri in the Peutinger tables (Poland, 
Palcest. p. 421). The name Eleutherojynlis first appears 
on eoins of this city inscribed to Julia Donna, the wife 
of Septimius Severus, in A.D. 202-8 (Eckhel, iii, 488). 
The emperor had been in Syria about that time, and 
had conferred important privileges on various cities, 
among which was Betogabris, which appears to have 
been then called Eleutheropolis , as being made a free 
eitv. Epiphanius. the well-known writer, was born in 
a village three miles from the city in the beginning 
of the 4th century, and is often called an Eleuthoropol- 
itan (Iieland, p. 751, 752). In the year A.D. 796, little 


ELEUTHEROPOLIS 


136 


ELI-1 AN AN 


more than a century and a half after the Saracenic con- 
quest, Eleutheropolis was razed to the ground, and left 
completely desolate. The Greek language now gave 
place to the Arabic, and this city lost its proud name 
and its prouder rank together (Reland, p. 987). Like 
so many other cities, the old Aramaic name, which had 
probably never been lost to the peasantry, was revived 
among writers, and we thus tind Beigeberin, or some 
form like it, constantly in use after the 8th century 
(Reland, Paler st. p. 222, 227 ; Gesta Dei per Francos, i 
p. 1044). In the 12th century the Crusaders found it 
in ruins, and called by the Arabs Bethgebrim (doubt- 
less a Frank corruption of Beit Jibrin). They built a 
strong fortress on the old foundations to guard against 
the incursions of the Moslems, t lie remains of which, 
and the chapel connected with it, still exist. After 
the battle of Hattin it fell into the hands of Saladin, 
but was retaken by Richard of England. It was I 
finally captured by Bibars (see Will. Tyr. xiv, 22 ; Jac. ' 
de Yit. in Gesta Dei, p. 1070, 1071; Bohaeddin, Yit. 
/Salad. }>. 229). It has since crumbled to ruin under 
the blight of Mohammedan rule. 

The modern village of Beit Jibrin is ahout twenty- 
five miles from Jerusalem, on the road to Gaza. It 
contains between two and three hundred inhabitants, 
and is situated in a little nook or glen in the side of a 
long green valley, which is shut iu by low ridges of 
limestone partially covered with dark copse. The 
ancient ruins are scattered around it, and are of con- 
siderable extent. The principal one is a large irregu- 
lar inc-losure, formerly surrounded by a massive wall, 
still in part standing, and containing the remains of 
the Crusaders’ castle. A great part of this outer wall 
is completely ruinous ; but the north side, which skirts 
the bank of the valley, is still several feet high. The 
inclosure is about GOO feet in diameter. The fortress 
is ahout 200 feet square, and is of a much later date 
than the outer wall. In the castle, along the south 
side, are portions of the walls and the groined roof 
and clustered columns of a fine old chapel — the same, 
doubtless, which was built by the Crusaders. An 
Arabic inscription over the castle-gate bears the date 
A. II. 958 = A.D. 1551 — probably the time when it was 
last repaired. A short distance eastward are other 
massive ruins and a deep well ; while about a mile up 
the valley are the picturesque remains of the church 
of St. Anne (Porter, Handbook for Syr. and Pal. p. 25G 
sq.). Several curious traditions have found a “local 
habitation” at Beit Jibrin. One places here the mi- 
raculous fountain which sprang from the jaw-bone 
Samson wielded with such success against the Philis- 
tines (Anton. Mont. Itin. p. 30, 32). 

The valley, on the side of which the ruins of Eleu- 
theropolis lie, runs up among the hills for two miles 
or more south-by-east. On each side of it are low 
rid gee of soft limestone, which rises here and there in 
white bare crowns over the dark shrubs. In these 
ridges are some of the most remarkable caverns and 
excavations in Palestine, rivalling in extent and in- 
terest the catacombs of Rome and Malta. They are 
altogether different in character from the rock-tombs 
of Jerusalem and the grottos of Petra. They were 
examined and described by Dr. Robinson, and they 
have since been more fully explored bv Mr. Porter. 
They are found together in clusters, and form subter- 
ranean villages. Nome are rectangular, 100 feet and 
more in length, with smooth walls and lofty arched 
roofs. Others are bell-shaped — from 40 to 70 feet in 
diameter, by nearly GO feet in height — all connected 
together by arched doorways and winding subterra- 
nean passages. A few are entirely dark, but most of 
them are lighted by a circular aperture at the top. 
They occur at short intervals along both sides of the 
whole valley, and may also be seen at several- other 
neighboring villages. The origin and object of these 
singular excavations are easily ascertained. During 
the Babylonian captivity the Edomites overran and 


occupied the whole of southern Palestine, which is 
hence called In' Josephus Idumaea. Jerome calls the 
Idumajans Ilorites, and says they inhabited the whole 
country extending from Eleutheropolis to Petra and 
Elah, and that they dicelt in caves — preferring them 
both on account of their security and their coolness 
during the heat of summer {Comm, in Obad. i). The 
original inhabitants of Edom were Ilorites , that is, 
Troglodytes , “dwellers in caves.” The descendants 
of Esau adopted the habits of their predecessors, and 
when they took possession of southern Palestine exca- 
vated rock dwellings wherever practicable (see Robin- 
son’s Biblical Peso arches, 2d cd. ii, 23, 57 sq. ; Van de 
Velde, Narrative , ii, 147 sq. ; Thomson, Land and Book , 
ii, 358 sq.). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Eleu'tlierus (EXtvQenoc.free ; see Simonis, Onom. 
p. 58), a river of Syria mentioned in 1 Macc. xi, 7; 
xii, 30. In early ages it was a noted border stream 
(Pliny, v, 17 ; ix, 12 ; Ptolemy, v. 15, 4). According 
to Strabo, it separated Syria from Phoenicia (xvi, 753), 
and formed the northern limit of Ccele-Syria. Jose- 
phus informs us that Antony gave Cleopatra “ the 
cities that were within the river Eleutherus, as far as 
Egypt, except Tyre and Sidon” {Ant. xv, 4, 1 ; liar, 
i, 18, 5). A careful examination of the passages in 
Nnm. xxxiv, 8-10, and Ezek. xlvii, 15-17, and a com- 
parison of them with the features of the country, lead 
Mr. Porter to the conclusion that this river also formed 
in part the northern border of the “Promised Land” 
(Five Years in Damascus, ii, 354 sq.). Pliny says that 
at a certain season of the } r ear it swarmed with tor- 
toise (ix, 10). Of the identity of the Eleutherus with 
the modern Nahr el-Kebir , “Great River,” there can- 
not be a doubt. Its highest source is at the north- 
eastern base of Lebanon ; it sweeps round the northern 
end of the range, through the opening called in Scrip- 
ture “the entrance of Hamath” (Xum. xxxiv, 8), 
and, after receiving several small tributaries from the 
heights of Lebanon, it falls into the Mediterranean 
about eighteen miles north of Tripolis. It still forms 
the boundary between the provinces of Akkar and el- 
Husn. During summer and autumn it is but a small 
stream, easily forded, but in winter it swells into a 
} large and rapid river (Maundrell, p. 33; Burckhardt, 

1 p. 270; Paulus, Samml. i, 35, 303). — Smith, s. v. 

Eleutherus or Eleutherius, a native of Xicop- 
olis, elected bishop of Rome after the death of Soter, 
May 3, 177. He is previously (1G8) mentioned as a 
deacon of bishop Anicetus of Rome. He opposed with 
much zeal the errors of the Valentinians during his 
tenure of office. Two events are reported to have 
rendered his pontificate memorable : the glorious death 
of the martyrs of Lyons and Vienne (Eusebius, Hist. Ec- 
cles. v, 4), and an embass}' from Lucius, king of Great 
Britain, to demand a missionary to teach the Britons 
the Christian religion (Bede, Ilist. Eccl. iii, 25 ; Collier, 
Feel. Hist, i, 35). The churches of Lyons and Vienne 
sent to him the acts of those of their members who had 
just suffered martyrdom. Their messenger was the 
presbyter Jrenams, subsequently celebrated as one of 
the pillars of the Church in Gaul. As the letter of 
these churches to Eleutherus warns against the Mon- 
tanists, some have inferred, though without being sup- 
ported by any other proof, that Eleutherus was an ad- 
herent of the Montanist sect. The legend about the 
embassy of king Lucius, and the subsequent mission 
of two Roman missionaries to England, is doubted by 
many historians. Eleutherus died A.D. 192. He is 
commemorated in the Church of Rome as a saint on 
the 2Gth of May. See Mosheim, Comment, i, 273; 
Neaudcr, Planting and Training, ii, 518 : Smith, Relig- 
ion of Ancient Britain, p. 121, 122; Herzog, ReaUEn - 
cykl' iii, 753. (A. J. S.) 

Elha'nan (Ilcb. Elchanan ', “nss:, whom God has 
graciously bestowed [compare Hananeel , Hanananierh, 
Johanan, Phccu. Hannibal ; also Baal-hanan , etc.] ; 


ELHANAN 


137 


ELI 


Sept. ’EXf ctvav; Vulg. Adeodatus , but Chanan , Elcka- 
nan, in Chron.), a distinguished warrior in the time 
of king David, who performed a memorable exploit 
against the Philistines, though in what that exploit 
exactly consisted, and who the hero himself was, it is 
not easy to determine. B.C. cir. 1020. 

1. 1 Sam. xxi,19, says that he was the “son of Ja- 
are Oregiin the Bethlehemite,” and that he “slew 
Goliath the Gittite, the staff* of whose spear was like a 
weaver’s beam.” Here, in the A.V., the words “the 
brother of” are inserted, to bring the passage into 
agreement with, 

2. 1 Chron. xx, 5, which states that “ Elhanan, son 
of Jair (or Jaor), slew Lalimi, the brother of Goliath 
the Gittite, the staff* of whose spear,” etc. 

Of these two statements the latter is probably the 
more correct, the differences between them being much 
smaller in the original than in English (see Kennicott, 
Dissertation , p. 78). See Lahmi. 

(a.) The word Oregim (q. v.) exists twice in the 
verse in Samuel, first as a proper name, and again at 
the end — “weavers.” The former has probably been 
taken in by an early transcriber from the latter, i. e. 
from the next line of the MS. To the end of the 
verse it certainly belongs, since it is found in the par- 
allel passage of Chronicles, and also forms part of w hat 
seems to have been a proverbial description of Goliath 
(comp. 1 Sam. xvii, 7). 

(6.) The statement in Samuel is in contradiction to 
the narrative of 1 Sam. xvii, according to which Goli- 
ath the Gittite was killed by David. True, Ewald 
( Gesch . iii, 91 sq.) — from the fact that David’s antago- 
nist is, with only three exceptions (one of them in the 
doubtful verses, xvii, 12-32), called “the Philistine,” 
and for other linguistic reasons — has suggested that 
Elhanan was the real victor of Goliath, and that after 
David became king the name of Goliath was attached 
to the nameless champion whom he killed in his youth. 
But against this is the fact that Goliath is named thrice 
in 1 Sam. xvii and xxi — thrice only though it be ; and 
also that Elhanan’s exploit, from its position both in 
Samuel and in Chronicles, and from other indications, 
took place late in David’s reign, and when he had 
been so long king, and so long renowned, that all the 
brilliant feats of his youth must have been brought to 
light, and w T ell known to his people. It is recorded 
as the last but one in the series of encounters of what 
seems to have been the closing struggle with the Phi- 
listines. It was so late that David had acquired among 
his warriors the fond title of “the light of Israel” (2 
Sam. xxi, 17), and that his nephew Jonathan was old 
enough to perform a feat rivalling that of his illustri- ! 
ous uncle years before. It was certainly after David I 
was made king, for he goes down to the tight, not with ! 
his “young men,' 1 as when he was leading his band I 
during Saul’s life, but with his “servants,” literally 
his “slaves,” a term almost strictly reserved for the 
subjects of a king. The vow of his guard, on one of 
these occasions, that it should be his last appearance 
in the field, shows that it must have been after the 
great Ammonitish war, in which David himself had 
led the host to the storming of Kabbah (2 Sam. xii, 
29). It may have been between this last event and 
the battle with Absalom beyond Jordan, though there 
arc other obvious reasons why David staid within the 
walls of Mahanaim on that occasion. See David. 

Jerome, in his Qucest. Ifebr. on both passages— he 
does not state whether from ancient tradition or not — 
translates Elhanan into A 'deo-dutus, and adds flius sal- 
tits Polymitarius Bethlehemite s — “the son of a wood, a 
weaver, a Bethlehemite.” Adeodatus, he says, is Da- 
vid, which he argues not only by considerations drawn 
from the meaning of each of the above words, but also 
from the statement in the concluding verse of the rec- 
ord that all these giants “fell by the hand of David 
and by the hand of his servants,” and as Elhanan j 
slew Goliath, Elhanan must be David. 


3. Elhanan is elsewhere called the son of Dodo of 
Bethlehem, one of “the thirty” of David’s guard, and 
named first on the list (2 Sam. xxiii, 24; 1 Chron. xi, 

26) . See Kennicott’s Dissertation, p. 179. Perhaps 
his father had both names.- — Smith, s. v. See Jair. 

Elevation of the Host. See Host and Mass. 

Elfege. See Alphage. 

Elfric. See /Elfric. 

E'li ( Xleb.Eli i. q. *4 3, ascent; Sept.TlXi [so 
N. T. see Heli], Josephus ’HAW, Vulg. Heli), the high- 
priest of the Jews when the ark was in Shiloh (1 Sam. 
i, 3, 9). He was descended from Aaron through Itlia- 
mar, the youngest of his two surviving sons (Lev. x, 
1, 2, 12), as appears from the fact that Abiathar, who 
was certainly a lineal descendant of Eli (1 Kings ii, 

27) , had a son Ahimelech, who is expressly stated to 
have been “of the sons of lthamar” (1 Chron. xxiv, 3; 
comp. 2 Sam. viii, 17). With this accords the circum- 
stance that the names of Eli and his successors in the 
high-priesthood up to and including Abiathar are not 
found in the genealogy of Eleazar (1 Chron. vi, 4-15 ; 
comp. Ezra vii, 1-5). As the history makes no men- 
tion of any high-priest of the line of lthamar before 
Eli, he is generally supposed to have been the first of 
that line who held the office (Josephus, Ant. viii, 1, 3). 
From him, his sons having died before him, it appears 
to have passed to his grandson Ahitub (1 Sam. xiv, 3; 
comp, however Josephus, Ant. v, 11, 2), and it certain- 
ly remained in his family till Abiathar, the grandson 
of Ahitub, was “thrust out from being priest unto the 

1 Lord” bv Solomon for his share in Adonijah’s rebel- 
lion (1 Kings ii, 26, 2-7 ; i, 7), and the high-priestliood 
! passed back again to the family of Eleazar in the per- 
l son of Zadok (1 Kings ii, 35). How the office ever 
came into the younger branch of the house of Aaron 
we are not informed ; perhaps it was through the inca- 
1 pacitv or minority of the then sole representative of 
the elder line, for it is very evident that it was no un- 
authorized usurpation on the part of Eli (1 Sam. ii, 27, 
28, 30). See Ithamar. Eli also acted as regent or 
civil judge of Israel after the death of Samson, being 
the immediate predecessor of his pupil Samuel (1 Sam. 
vii, 6, 15-17), the last of the judges. This function, 
indeed, seems to have been intended, by the tlieocrat- 
ieal constitution, to devolve upon the high-priest, by 
virtue of his office, in the absence of any person spe- 
cially appointed by the divine King to deliver and 
govern Israel. He is said to have judged Israel JO 
years (1 Sam. iv, 18): the Septuagint makes it 20. It 
has been suggested, in explanation of the discrepancy, 
that he was sole judge for 20 years, after having been 
eo-judge with Samson for 20 years (Judg. xvi, 31). 
But the probability is that the number JO is correct, 
but that it comprehends only the period of his admin- 
istration as judge; for not only does the whole tenor 
of the narrative imply that this immediately succeeded 
the judgeship of Samson (as indeed Josephus evidently 
understood it ; a fact apparent not only from his his- 
tory, but also from the summing up of his numbers as 
computed by himself, Ant. v, 9 ; x, 3 ; title to book v), 
but this view is evidently taken by Paul in his assign- 
ment of the period of J50 years to the judges (Acts 
xiii, 20), a number that immediately results from sim- 
ply adding together the items as given in the O.-T. 
history, including Samson and Eli as continuous to the 
others. See Judges. As Eli died at the age of nine- 
ty-eight (1 Sam. iv, 15), the forty years (B.C. 1165- 
1125) must have commenced when he was fifty-eight 
years old. (See Light foot's Works, i, 53, 907, fol. Lond. 
1684; Selden, De Success, in Pontif. Ifebr. lib. i, cap. 
4). See Higii-priest. 

Eli seems to have been a religious man, and the only 
fault recorded of him was an excessive easiness of 
temper, most unbefitting the high responsibilities of 
his official character. Ilis sons Hophni and Phine- 
has, whom he invested with authority, misconducted 


ELI 


ELIADA 


138 


themselves so outrageously as to excite deep disgust 
among the people, and render the services of the tab- 
ernacle odious in their eyes (1 Sam. ii, 27-30; 1 Kings 

ii, 27). Of this misconduct Eli was aware, but con- 
tented himself with mild and ineffectual remonstrances 
(1 Sam. ii, 22 25), where his station required severe 
and vigorous action (1 Sam. iii, 13). For this neglect 
the judgment of God was at length denounced upon 
his house, through the young Samuel (q. v.), who, un- 
der peculiar circumstances, had been attached from i 
childhood to his person (1 Sam. ii, 29; iii, 18). Some 
years passed without any apparent fulfilment of this 
denunciation, but it eame at length in one terrible 
crash, by which the old man’s heart was broken. The 
Philistines had gained the upper hand over Israel, and 
the ark of God was taken to the field, in the confidence 
of victory and safety from its presence. Hut in the 
battle which followed the ark itself was taken by the 
Philistines, and the two sons of Eli, who were in at- 
tendance upon it, were slain. The high-priest, then 
blind with age, sat by the wayside at Shiloh, awaiting 
tidings from the war, “for his heart trembled for the 
ark of God.” A man of Benjamin, with his clothes 
rent, and with earth upon his head, brought the fatal 
news : and Eli heard that Israel was defeated — that his 
sons were slain — that the ark of God was taken — at 
which last word he fell heavily from his seat, and died 
(1 Sam. iv). According to Schwarz ( Palest . p. 142), 
an erroneous tradition locates his grave in an elegant 
building at the village C'harim ben-Elim, eight miles 
N.N.E. of Jaffa, on the shore. The ultimate doom 
upon Eli's house was accomplished when Solomon re- 
moved Abiathar (the last liigh-priest of this line) from 
his office, and restored the line of Eleazar, in the per- 
son of Zadok (1 Kings ii, 27). See Abiatiiar. An- 
other part of the same sentence (1 Sam. ii, 31-33) ap- 
pears to have been taking effect in the reign of David, 
when we read that “there were more chief men found 
of the sons of Eleazar than of the sens of lthamar” — 
sixteen of the former, and only eight of the latter (1 
Chron. xxiv, 4). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v, 

E'li (//Ai , for Heb. [Psa. xxii, 2], eft', my God, 
as it is immediately rendered), an exclamation used 
by our Saviour on the cross, in appeal to his heavenly 
Father (Matt. xxvii,4G). Sec Agony. In the par- 
allel passage (Mark xv, 34) it is written ’EXuu, Eloi 
( q. v.). 

Eli- ( n l?8s, an old form of the “construet state” of 
the Mighty , i. e. Almighty, the union vowel i be- 
ing used as in Aei-, Am-, etc.) often occurs as the 
first clement of proper names (corn]). Elihu, Elijah, and 
many others here following), as referring to the high- 
est notion of the Deity among the Sliemitic. races, j 
As such epithet it is sometimes interchangeable with 
Baal- (q. v.) (see 2 Sam. v, 16; 1 Chron. xiv, 7), or j 
even Jkho- (q. v.) (see 2 Kings xxiii, 34). This 
constructive form is also sometimes interchanged with | 
the abbreviation of the simple PX into ”P^ (1 Chron. 

iii, G; xiv, 5; comp. Exod. vi, 22; Nnm. iii, 30), or j 
it even exchanges places with the other clement of the 
name, e. g. Eliam (2 Sam. xi, 3) becomes Ammiel (1 
Chron. iii, 5). As in the words beginning with Ahi-, 
A hi-, etc., this element often melts into the other 
member, not strictly in a genitive sense, but as a sort 
of liturgical invocation or eulogiinn of the Deity, as 
is found to lie the case with similar names used as re- 
ligious formula*, especially among the ancient Phoeni- 
cians (see Eluanan). 

ETiab [usually Eli' ah'] (Heb. Eliah', to 

whom God is father; Sept. ’E Xid/3, Vitlg. Eliah ), the 
name of seven men. 

1. A Keubenilo, son of Palin or rhallu, whose fam- 
ily was one of the principal iji the tribe, and father 
or progenitor of Dathan and Abiram, the' leaders in 
the revolt against Moses (Num. xxvi, 8, 9 ; xvi, 1, 12 ; j 


Deut. xi, G). B.C. post. 1856. Eliah had another son 
named Nemuel ; and the record of Num. xxvi is in- 
terrupted expressly to admit a statement regarding 
his sons. 

2. A son of Hclon, and phylarcli of the tribe of Zeb- 
ulun at the time of the census in the wilderness of Si- 
nai (Num. i, 9 ; ii, 7 ; vii, 24, 29; x, 1G). B.C. 1G57. 

3. An ancestor of Samuel (q. v.) the prophet, being 
a Kohathite Levite, son of Nahath and father of Jero- 
ham (1 Chron. vi, 27 [12]). B.C. cir. 1250. In the 
other statements of the genealogy this name appears to 
be given as Elihu (1 Sam. i, 1) and Eliel (1 Chron. 
vi, 34 [19]). 

4. The eldest son of Jesse and brother of David (1 
Sam. xvi, G; xvii, 13; 1 Chron. ii, 13). It was he 
that made the contemptuous inquiry, by which he 
sought to screen his own cowardice, when David pro- 
posed to fight Goliath, “With whom hast thou left 
those few sheep in the wilderness?'’ (1 Sam. xvii, 28.) 
B.C. 10G3. His daughter Abihail married her second 
cousin Rehohoam, and bore him three children (2 
Chron. xi, 18); althpugh, taking into account the 
length of the reigns of David and Solomon, it is diffi- 
cult not to suspect that the word “daughter” is here 
used in the less strict sense of granddaughter or de- 
scendant. In 1 Chron. xxvii, 18, we find mention 
of “Elihu, of the brethren of David,” as “ruler” 
(TPS) or “prince” (“'^) of the tribe of Judah. Ac- 
cording to the ancient Hebrew tradition preserved by 
Jerome (Quiest. Ilebr. ad loe.), this Elihu was identical 
with Rliab. “ Brethren” is, however< often used in 
the sense of kinsman, e. g. 1 Chron. xii, 2. — Smith, 
s. v. 

5. The third of the Gadite heroes who joined David 
in his stronghold in the wilderness (1 Chron. xii, 9). 
B.C. 10G1. 

6. A Levite in the time of David, who was both a 
“porter” (“2Vj, sho'er, i. e. a door-keeper) and a mu- 
sician on the “psaltery” (1 Chron. xv, 18, 20; xvi, 
5). B.C. 1013. 

7. Son of Nathanael, one of the forefathers of Ju- 
dith, and therefore belonging to the tribe of Simeon 
(Judith viii, 1). 

Eli'ada (Heb. Ehjada' , whom God has 

known), the name of three men. 

1. (Sept., in Kings, ’EXftnl, and repeated, BonAt- 
ftiif); in Chron. ’KXiada, v. r. EXtl^o ; Vulg. Elioda, 
Eliadct.) One of David’s sons ; according to the list, 
the youngest but one of the family born to him* after 
his establishment in Jerusalem (2 Sam. v, 1G; 1 Chron. 
iii, 8). B.C. post 1033. From the latter passage it ap- 
pears that he was the son of a wife and not of a con- 
cubine. In 1 Chron. xiv, 7, the name appears in the 
form of Beeliada (q. d. whom the Master 

has known ; see Simonis, Onomast. p. 4G0; 222 being 
the S 3 r riac form of P22, Lord). This curious read- 
ing of the Masoretic text is not, however, indisputa- 
ble; De Rossi’s Cod. 18G (jirimd maim) reads 
the Sept. ’E \iads, and the Peshito Elidaa. On the 
strength of these authorities, De- Rossi (after Datbins, 
Lib. Hist. V. T. p. G54) pronounces in favor of assim- 
ilating this passage to the other two, and refers to the 
improbability of David's using the names and 
promiscuously (see De Rossi's Hu*. Tjcet. F. T. Ilehrai- 
ece, iv). We must not, however, in the interest of 
careful criticism, too hastily succumb to arguments 
of this kind. As to MSS., the four or five which 
Kcnnicott adduces all support the text of 1 Chron. 
xiv, 7; the authority of the Sept, is neutralized by 
Codd. Alex, and Erid. Avgust., the former of which 
has B aWiaPei, and the latter BoXtytW, evidently cor- 
roborating the Masoretic text, as does the X"ulg. BaaL 
iada. As to the difficulty of David’s using a name 
which contained for one of its elements, it is at 


139 


ELIAM 


ELIADAH 


least very doubtful whether that word, which literally 
means master, proprietor, husband , and is often used in 
the earlier Scriptures inoffensively (see Gesenius,77ies. 
p. *224), in David’s time had acquired the bad sense 
which 7?aa/-worsliip in Israel afterwards imparted to 
it. It is much to the present point that in this very 
chapter (ver. 11) David does not object to employ the 
word in the name Baal-perazim , in commemora- 
tion of a victory vouchsafed to him by the Lord (see 
2 Sam. v, 20, where the naming of the place is as- 
cribed to David himself). It is possible that this ap- 
pellation of his son might itself have had reference to 
that signal victory. The name appears to be omitted 
by Josephus in his list of David’s family (-4nL vii, 3, 
3), unless he be there called Eiien (’EAg)f). — K itto, 
s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

2. (Sept. 'EA laid, v. r. ’EXtadas ; Vulg. Ellada .) 
Apparently an Aramitc of Zobali, the father of Rezon, 
which latter was captain of a marauding band that 
annoyed Solomon (1 Kings xi, 23, where the name is 
.Anglicized “ Eliadah”). ILC. ante 975. 

3. (Sept. ’EXiadd, Vulg*. Ellada.) A mighty man 

of war TB5), a Benja mite, who led 200,000 (?) 

archers of his tribe to the army of Jehoshaphat (2 
Chron. xvii, 17). B.C. 945. See jEiiosnAniAT. 

Eli'adcih (1 Kings xi, 23), a less correct mode of 
Anglicizing the name Eliad i (q. v.). 

Eli'adas (’EAmJdc, Vulg. Eiiadas ), one of “the 
sons of Zamoth” who divorced his Gentile wife after 
the restoration from Babylon (1 Esdr. ix, 28) ; evi- 
dently the Elioenai (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra x, 
27). ' 

Eli'adun (’HA uioovo v. r. 'HAmooi'iqVulg. omits), 
a name given as that of the father of Joda, whose sons 
and brethren assisted in rebuilding the Temple after 
the return from Babylon (1 Esdr. y, 58); apparently 
a corruption for the Henadad (q. v.) of the Hebrew 
narrative (Ezra iii, 19). 

Eli'ali (1 Chron. a iii, 27 ; Ezra x, 2G), a less cor- 
rect mode of Anglicizing the name of Elijah (q. v.), 
but referring to others than the prophet. 

Eli'ahba (Ileb. Eliyachba ' , but in Chron. 

Ebjachba , whom God will hide ; Sept. ’EAt- 

afid, Vulg. Eliabaj , a Shaalbonite; one of David’s 
thirty chief warriors (2 Sam. xxiii, 32; 1 Chron. xi, 
33). " tf.C. 104G. 

Eli'akim (Heb. Elyalim , whom God will 

raise up; Sept. ’EX undp and 'EA teacup; N. T. 

Ktifi ; Josephus, ’EXiaKipog, Ant. x, 1, 2 ; Vulg. Elia- 
dm), the name of five men. 

1. The son of Melea and father of Jonan, in the 
genealogy (q. v.) of Christ (Luke iii, 30) ; probably 
the grandson of Nathan, of the private line of David’s 
descent (Strong’s Harm, and Expos, p. 1G). B.C. con- 
siderably post 1013. 

2. Son of llilkiah, and prajfect of the palace under 
king Ilczekiah, who sent him to receive the message 
of the invading Assyrians, and report it to Isaiah 
(2 Kings xviii, 18 ; xix, 2 ; Isa. xxxvi, 3, 11, 22 ; 
xxxvii, 2). B.C. 713. lie succeeded Shebna in this 
office after the latter had been ejected from it (Gro- 
tius thinks by reason of his leprosy) as a punishment 
for his pride (Isa. xxii, 15-20). Eliakim was a good 
man, as appears by the title emphatically applied to 
him b} r God, “niy servant Eliakim” (Isa. xxii, 20), 
and as was evinced by his conduct on the occasion of 
Sennacherib’s invasion (2 Kings xviii, 37 ; xix, 1-5), 
and also in the discharge of the duties of his high sta- 
tion, in which he acted as a “father to the inhabitants 
of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah” (Isa. xxii, 
21). It was as a special mark of the divine approba- 
tion of his character and conduct, of which, however, 
no further details have been preserved to us, that he 
was raised to the post of authority and dignity which 


he held at the time of the Assyrian invasion. What 
this office was has been a subject of some perplexity 
to commentators. The ancients, including the Sept, 
and Jerome, understood it of the priestly office, as ap- 
pears by the rendering of pO (Isa. xxii, 15; A. V. 

“ treasurer”) by 7racrro0OjO(Oi’, the “priest’s chamber,” 
by the former, and of rP2rpb2 (“over the house,” 
as Isa. xxxvi, 3) by “ prapositus temjdi ,” by the lat- 
ter. Hence Nicephorus, as well as the author of the 
Alexandrian Chronicle, includes in the list of high- 
priests Soninas or Sobnas (i. e. Shebna), and Eliakim, 
identifying the latter with Shallum or Mcshullam. 
But it is certain from the description of the office in 
Isa. xxii, and especially from the expression in ver. 
22, “The key of the house of David will I lay upon 
his shoulder,” that it was the king’s house, and not 
the house of God, of which Eliakim was prefect, as 
Ahisbarhad been in the reign of Solomon (1 Kings iv, 
G), and Azrikam in that of Ahaz (2 Chron. xxviii, 7). 
With this agrees both all that is said, and all that 
is not said, of Eliakim’s functions. The office seems 
to have been the highest under the king, as was the 
case in Egypt, when Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Thou 
shalt be over my house ("Tp“p‘) . . . only in the 
throne w ill I be greater than thou” (Gen. xli, 40 ; 
comp. Ixxxix, 4). In 2 Chron. xxviii, 7, the officer is 
called “governor (T"p) of the house.” It is clear 
that the “scribe” was inferior to him, for Shebna, 
when degraded from the prefecture of the house, act- 
ed as scribe under Eliakim (2 Kings xviii, 37). The 
whole description of it too by Isaiah implies a place 
f of great eminence and power. This description is 
transferred in a mystical or spiritual sense to Christ 
the son of Davkl in Rev. iii, 7, thus making Eliakim 
in some sense typical of Christ. The true meaning 
of pb, soken' , is very doubtful. “Friend,” i. c. of the 
kin:., and “steward of the provisions,” are the two 
most probable significations. See Treasurer. Eli- 
akim’s career was a most honorable and splendid one. 
Most commentators agree that Isa. xxii, 25 does not 
apply to him, but to Shebna. — Smith, s. v. 

3. The original name of Jelioiakim (q. v.), king of 
Judah (2 Kings xxiii, 34; 2 Chron. xxxvi, 4). 

4. Son of Abiud and father of Azor, of the poster- 
ity of Zerubbabel (Matt, i, 13). He is probably iden- 
tical with the Siiecii axi ah (q. v.) of 1 Chron. iii, 21 

| (Strong’s Harmony and Expos, of the Gospels , p. 11). 
See Genealogy (of Christ). 

5. A priest in the days of Nehemiah, w r ho assisted 
at the dedication of the new wall of Jerusalem (Nell, 
xii, 41). B.C. 446. 

Eli'ali (’EAirtAi v. r. *E\ta\u, Vulg. Dielus), one 
of “the sons of Maani” who divorced his Gentile wife 
after the exile (1 Esdr. ix, 34); apparently a corrup- 
tion for the Binnui (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra x, 
38). 

E'liam [usually EM / am~] (Heb. Eliam CppX, 
God is [his] peojde, i. a. friend; Sept. ’EAtd/1, A ulg. 
Eliam), t lie father of Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah and 
afterwards of David (2 Sam. xi, 3). In the list of 1 
Chron. iii, 5, the names of both father and daughter 
arc altered, the former to the equivalent Am.miel (q. 
v.), and the latter to Bathslma, both the hitter names 
being also those of non-Israelite persons, while l riah 
was a Ilittite (comp. Gen. xxxviii, 12; 1 Chron. ii, 3; 
also 2 Sam. xvii, 27). The same name Eliam also oc- 
curs as that of a Gilonite, the son of Ahithophel, and 
one of David’s “thirty” warriors (2 Sam. xxiii, 34). 
It is omitted in the list of 1 Chron. xi, but is now prob- 
ably discernible as “Aiiijaii the Pclonite” (ver. 3G) 
(see Kennieott, Dissertation , p. 207). The ancient 
Jewish tradition preserved by Jerome (flu. Jlebr. on 2 
Sam. xi, 3, and 1 Chron. iii, 5) is that the two Eliam? 
are the same person. An argument has been founded 


ELIAOXIAS 


140 


ELI AS API! 


on this to account for the hostility of Ahithophel to ’ 
king David, as having dishonored his house and caused 
the death of his son-in-law (Blunt, Coincidences , pt. ii, 
x). lint he would perhaps have rather been proud of 
this alliance with royalty. B.C. 1046. — Smith, s. v. 

EliaoTiias [many Eliaoni'cis ] (’EXiawi'iaf, Vulg. 
Moaliliojiis, including the preceding name), a son of 
Zaraias of Pahath-Moab, leader of two hundred exiles 
from Babylon (1 Esdr. viii, 31) ; evidently the Eli- 
iioenai (q. v.) of the Ilcb. text (Ezra viii, 4). 

Eii'as ('HXiaff, in Maccabees, elsewhere and in 
1ST. T. 'UXtrtc, Vulg. Elias, but in Cod. Amiat. He lias ), 
the Groecized form in which the name of Elijah (q. 
v.) is given in the A.V. of the Apocrypha and N. T. 
(Ecclus. xlviii, 1, 4, 12; 1 Mace, ii, 58; Matt, xi, 14; 
xvi, 14 ; xv ii, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12 ; xxvii, 47, 40 ; Mark vi, 
15; viii, 28; ix, 4, 5, 11, 12, 13; xv, 85, 30; Luke i, 
17: iv, 25, 20; ix, 8, 10, 30, 33, 54; John i, 21, 25; 
Bom. xi, 2; James v, 17). In Korn, xi, 2, the refer- 
ence is not to the prophet, but to the portion of Scrip- 
ture designated by his name, the words being iv 'HAiVr, 
“in Elias,” not as in A.V. “of Elias.”- — Smith, s. v. 

Elias Levita (properly Elijah the Levite, son of 
Asher), one of the greatest Jewish scholars of mod- 
ern times, was born in the latter half of the fifteenth 
century. Both the year and the place of his birth 
have been the subject of literary controversy. The 
former point seems to have been settled by the learn- 
ed Bossi (see below), who showed that Elias was born 
in 1471 or 1472, not, as Ilirt maintains, in 1469, or, as 
Nagel undertook to prove, in 1477. The second point 
is still a point of dispute, both Italians and Germans 
being desirous to claim this great writer for their 
country. The chief argument of the former is that 
Elias, in one of his works, speaks of Italy as “my 
country” and Venice as “my city;” the chief argu- 
ments of the Germans are that Elias, on the title- 
pages of several of his books, calls himself Ashkenazi 
("‘TZE-N;), or “the German,” and that, according to 
the express testimony of his friend and pupil, Sebas- 
tian Munster (q. v.), be was born at Neustadt, on the 
Aieli, not far from Nuremberg. The margrave of 
Neustadt expelled Elias, together with several other 
Jews, from that town. He then w T ent to Italy, lived 
in several places as teacher of the Hebrew' language, 
especially (from 1504) at Padua, where he lectured on 
the Hebrew' grammar of Moses Kimchi, and wrote a 
commentary on it. AVhen Padua, in 1509, was cap- 
tured and plundered, Elias lost all his property and 
went to Venice, which city, in 1512, he again left for 
Pome. There he met with a very friendly reception 
from cardinal Egidio of Viterbo, who even received 
him and his family into his ou’n house. For many 
years Elias instructed the cardinal in the Hebrew' lan- 
guage, w'ho, in turn, made him better acquainted with 
the classical languages. Through Egidio, Elias en- 
tered into intimate relations with a number of other 
cardinals and bishops, who so warmly recommended 
him that he received an honorable call from king 
Francois 1 of France, which he, however, declined. 
When Pome, in 1527, was plundered by the troops of 
Karl V, Elias again lost his whole property. He 
again went to Venice, where he remained until 1540, 
when he accepted a call from Paul Fagius to assist 
him in the establishment of a new' Hebrew printing- 
olliee, and in the publication of several Hebrew hooks, 
at Isny, in Suabia. lie remained in Isny until 1547, 
when he returned to Venice, where he died in 1549. 
Elias rejected many of the Jewish traditions, and al- 
ways spoke favorably of the Christians; but be ex- 
pressly denied that lie had secretly become a Chris- 
tian, and averred that, “thanks to God, he was still 
a Jew'.” He was universally esteemed both for his 
character and his extraordinary scholarship ; only 
some fanatical Jew's hated him, as they suspected his 
fidelity to Judaism. His celebrated works on Hebrew' 


grammar procured him the surname of “ the Gramma- 
rian” His first work was a commentary 

on the q Z n*2 { [Mahalak ), or grammar of the rabbi Mo- 
ses Kimchi, first published by a certain Benjamin who 
had stolen the MS. (at Pesaro, 1508; frequently re- 
printed, with a Latin translation by Sebastian Mun- 
ster, Basel, 1527, 1531 ; and another by L’Empereur, 
Leyd. 1631). This is a different work from bis scholia 
on Kimchi’s HITS ( Pethach Debar ay ), or brief 

grammatical introduction, the text of which had ap- 
peared at Naples in 1492, and Levita’s scholia on it at 
Pesara in 1507, and later editions. At Pome he com- 
posed a grammar entitled ( hab-Bachvr , Pome, 

1518) , and a work on “ Composition ” (!lEE‘7<jCb Pome, 

1519) , in w hich he treats of the irregular words of the 

Bible. Both works w ere translated by Munster (the 
former first at Basel in 1518, and the latter in 1536). 
He also wrote a more extensive grammatical treatise 
in four parts, entitled “ Elijah's Scc- 

I tions’ 1 ’ 1 (Soncino, 1520, and later elsewhere; trans. by 
1 Minister, Basel, 1527, and later). After his return to 
Venice he wrote a hook on the accents (EEIJ E‘E) Tub 
Taam (Ven. 1538, and other eds. ; likewise translated 
by Munster, Basel, 1539), and, the most celel rated of 
all his works, a critical book on the Biblical text and 
! its authors (r^EESj r * " EE), Masoreth ham-Masoreih 
(Venice, 1538, 1546; Basel, 1539 [with a Latin summa- 
ry of the work by Miinster ; Sulzbaeh, 1769 and 1771]). 

I Ibis work, remarkable alike for literary merit, al- 
though it anticipated the judgments of the highest 
modern criticism on the questions of which it treats, 
and although it w'as, in fact, the lather of the great 
1 Buxtorf and Cappel controversy, which raged round 
the Hebrew' Scriptures for more than a hundred years 
after Levita’s death, had, until recently, never been act- 
ually translated either into Latin or any modern lan- 
guage. Nagel translated into Latin the three intro- 
ductions (Altdorf, 1757-1771) ; and there is a so-called 
German translation of Levita’s book, published at 
Ilalle in 1772, and commonly known as Semler’s. 
But Sender was not really, as indeed he did not pro- 
fess to be, the translator of Levita. The translation, 
such as it was, was executed by a young Jewish con- 
vert to Christianity of the name of Meyer, and all 
that Sender did was to supervise and annotate the Ger- 
man rendering. After all, the work was full of errors, 
and many valuable passages of the original are alto- 
| getlier omitted. A complete and very carefully exe- 
cuted translation into English, together with a critical 
edition of the original, was in 1867 published by Dr. 
Ginsbnrg (The Masoreth ha-Masoreth of Elias Levi - 
ta , in Hebrew, with an English Translation and Explan- 
atory Notes, London, 1867). Among the works com- 
piled by him at Isny is a Chaldaic-Pabhinical Diction- 
ary (" 1*2 *2, Methurgemdn, Isny, 1541 ; Ven. 1560). 
Elias also prepared a German translation of the Psalms 
(Von. 1545), and was, according to Sabtai, the author 
of a Hebrew'- Germ an novel, Baba . A full list of these 
and other works of Elias, with their editions, transla- 
tions, etc., also bibliographical treatises on them and 
their author, may he found in Fiirst’s Bibliotheca Ju- 
daica, ii, 239 sq. A valuable biography of Elias is 
found in Dr. Ginslmrg’s edition of Masoreth ham-Ma- 
soreth, cited above; see also Herzog, Beal-Encykl. iii, 
758 ; Hoofer, Naur. Bioy. Gen, xv, 810 ; Possi, Diziova- 
rio storico deyli Autori Ebrci (German transl. [ Hist, 
Handworterbuch dir jihl. Schriftsteller ] by Dr. Ham- 
berger, Lcipz. 1839); Ilirt, Oriental, and Exegct. Bib- 
liothek, pt. vii, Jena, 1755 ; XVolfii Bibliotheca Ilebrcra, 

^ Hamburg, 1715, i, 153. (A. J. S.) 

Eli'asaph (Heb. Elyasaph' , E E^ 2 N:, whom God has 
added; Sept. ’EX<tw0), the name of tw'O Israelites at 
1 the time of the Exode. 


ELIASHIB 


141 


ELIEZER 


1. Son of Reucl or Deuel, and phylarch of the tribe 
of Dan (Num. i, 14; ii, 14; vii, 42, 47 ; x, 20). B.C. 
1657. 

2. Son of Lael, and chief of the family of the Ger- 

shomite Levites (Num. iii, 24). 13. C. 1657. 

Eli'ashib (Heb. Elyashib' , whom God 

will restore; Sept. 'EXiaGefidov, ’EAta/3t, ’EXiaadfi, 
’EXtaaovfi, etc. ; Josephus ’EAm<xt/3oc; Yulg. Eliasub, 
Eliasib ), a common name of Israelites, especially at 
the later period of the O.-T. history. 

1. A priest in the time of king David ; head of the 

eleventh “course” in the order of the “governors” 
(^“ir) of the sanctuary (1 Chron. xxiv, 12). 13. C. 

1013. T 

2. A Levitical singer w r ho repudiated his Gentile 

■wife after the exile (Ezra x, 24). I3.C. 458. 

3. An Israelite of the lineage of Zattu, who did the 
same (Ezra x, 27). Ii.C. 458. 

4. An Israelite of the lineage of Bani, who did the 
same (Ezra x, 36). B.C. 458. 

5. The high-priest of the Jews in the time of Nehe- 
miah (Neh. xii, 28). B.C. 446. With the assistance 
of his fellow-priests, he rebuilt the eastern city wall 
adjoining the Temple (Neh. iii, 1). His own exten- 
sive mansion was doubtless situated in the same vicin- 
ity, probably on the ridge Ophel (Neh. iii, 20, 23). See 
Jerusalem. Eliashib was in some way allied (^“Hp 
= near) to Tobiah the Ammonite, for whom he had 
prepared an ante-room in the Temple, a desecration 
which excited the pious indignation of Nehemiah (Neh. 
xiii, 4, 7). One of the grandsons of Eliashib had also 
married the daughter of Sanballat the Horonite (xiii, 
28). There seems no reason to doubt that the same 
Eliashib is referred to in Ezra x, 6, as the father of 
Johanan, who occupied an apartment in the Temple 
(comp. Josephus, Ant. xi, 5, 4). He is evidently the 
same with the son of Joiakim and father of Joiada 
(Josephus, “ Judas,” Ant. xi, 7, 1), in the succession of 
high-priests (Neh. xii, 10, 22). See High-priest. 

6. A son of Elioenai, and member of the latest fam- 
ily of the lineage of Zerubbabel, mentioned in the Old 
Test. (3 Chron. iii, 24). B.C. 406. 

Eli'asib (’EAtdeu/tfof), the Grrecized form (1 Esdr. 
ix, 1) of the name of the high-priest Eliashib (q. v.). 

Eli 'asis ('EAidrrtc v. r. ’EXiaowg), a name given 
(1 Esdr. ix, 34) as that of one of the “ sons of Maani” 
who divorced their Gentile wives after the captivity, 
and corresponding in position to Mattenai (q. v.) of 
the Heb. list (Ezra x, 33) ; but probably a merely er- 
roneous repetition of Enasibos (q. v) preceding in the 
same verse. 

Eli'athah (Heb. Elia'thah , fiPNpbs:, 1 Chron. 
xxv, 4, or Eliya'thah , ver. 27, to whom God 

will come ; Sept. ’EAiaS'd v. r. , EAt«3', Vnlg. Eliatlui ), 
the eighth named of the fourteen sons of the Eevite 
I reman, and a musician in the Temple in the time of 
king David (1 Chron. xxv, 4), who, with twelve of his 
sons and brethren, had the twentieth division of the 
Temple-service (xxv, 27). B.C. 3033. In Jerome’s 
Qwest. Ihbr. on ver. 27, the name is given as Eliaba, 
and explained accordingly; but not so in the Vulgate. 

Eliberis. See Elvira. 

Eli'dad (Hebrew Elidad' , *11*^ Nl, whom God has 
loved ; Sept. ’EAedo, Yulg. Eklad), the son of Chislon, 
and phylarch of the tribe of Benjamin, one of the com- 
missioners appointed to portion out the promised land 
among the tribes (Num. xxxiv, 23). B.C. 3639. 

ETiel (Heb. ElieV , to whom God is might'), 

the name of some nine Israelites. 

1. (Sept. ’EXu)X.) A valiant phylarch of the tribe 
of Manasseh cast (1 Chron. v, 24). B.C. post 1612. 

2 . (Sept. ’EAn/A.) Son ofToah and father of Jero- 
han, ancestors of Heman the singer and Levite (1 
Chron. vi, 34) ; probably identical with the Eliab of 1 


Chron. vi, 34, and the Elihu of 1 Sam. i, 1. B.C. cir 
1250. See Samuel. - 

3. (Sept. ’EAn/A t.) One of the descendants of Shim‘ 
hi, and head of a Benjamite family in Jerusalem (1 
Chron. vii i, 20). B.C. between 1612 and 588. 

4. (Sept. ’EAf/'/A.) One of the descendants of Sha- 
shak, and likewise head of a Benjamite family at Jeru- 
salem (1 Chron. viii, 22). B.C. eod. 

5 . (Sept. ’EAu'/A v. r. 'EAtu/3.) The seventh of the 
Gadite heroes who joined David in his stronghold in 
the wilderness (3 Chron. xii, 13), possibly the same 
with No. 6 or 7. B.C. 3063. 

6. (Sept. ’EAo/A v. r. TfAi/jA.) A Mahanite (q. v), 
and one of David’s distinguished warriors (1 Chron. 
xi, 46). B.C. 1046. 

7. (Sept. 'AAn/A v. r. AaXit)\.) Another of David’s 
distinguished -warriors (1 Chron. xi, 47). B.C. eod. 

8. (Sept. ’EAi/'/A.) Chief of the 80 Hebronite Le- 
vites assembled by David to assist in bringing the ark 
to Jerusalem (3 Chron. xv, 9, 11). B.C. 1043. 

9. (Sept. ’EAt/jA.) One of the Levites appointed by 
Hezekiah to have charge of the offerings for the Tem- 
ple services (2 Chron. xxxi, 13). B.C. 726. 

Elie'liai (Heb. Elieynay ', "'3 n 3?"'PN, peril, contract- 
ed for Elioenai [q. v.] ; Sept. EA uoijvai v. r. ’EAtw- 
vai , Yulg. Elioenai ), one of the Bene-Shimhi Ben- 
jamite heads of families resident at Jerusalem (1 Chron. 
viii, 20). B.C. between 1618 and 588. 

Elie'zer (Heb. id. God is his help , a mod- 

ification of the name Eleazar [see Lazarus] ; Sept. 
'EAitsfp and ’EAti&p, N. T. ’EAii^fp), the name of 
eleven men. 

1. “Eliezer of Damascus,” mentioned in Gen. 
xv, 2, 3, apparently as a liouse-born domestic [see 
Slave] and steward of Abraham, and hence likely, in 
the absence of direct issue, to become the patriarch’s 
heir. B.C. 2088. The Sept, interprets the terms 
thus : “But the son of Masek, my house-born maid, is 
this Heliezer of Damascus.” It appeared even thus 
early that the passage of Scripture in which the name 
of Eliezer occurs is one of some difficulty. Abraham, 
being promised a son, says, “I go childless, and the 
steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus (>v il 
“TP*”P^ he of Damascus , Eliezer) . . . Behold, 

to me thou hast given no seed : and, lo, one born in 
mine house is mine heir” (Gen. xv, 2, 3). The com- 
mon notion is that Eliezer was Abraham’s house-born 
slave, adopted as his heir, and meanwhile his chief 
and confidential servant, and the same w ho was after- 
wards sent into Mesopotamia to seek a w r ife for Isaac 
(q. v.). This last point we may dismiss with the re- 
mark that there is not the least evidence that “the 
elder servant of his house” (Gen. xxiv, 2), whom 
Abraham charged with this mission, w r as the same as 
Eliezer. The obvious meaning is that Eliezer was 
born in Damascus, and how is this compatible with 
the notion of his being Abraham’s house-born slave, 
seeing that Abraham’s household never was at Damas- 
cus? It is true that there is a tradition, quoted by 
Josephns from Nicolaus of Damascus (AwL i, 7, 4), 
that Abraham “reigned in Damascus;” blit the tradi- 
tion was probably founded on this very passage, and 
has no claim on our belief. The Mohammedans call 
him Dameshak , or Damascennis, and believe him to 
have been a black slave given to Abraham by Nimrod, 
at the time, when he saw him, by virtue of the name 
of God, walking out of the midst of the flames (Ur), 
into which he had been cast b} r his orders. See Abra- 
ham. The expression, “ the steward of mine house,” 
in ver. 2, prp “3 (note the alliteration between 

the obscure term meshek and Dammesek ), literally 
translated, is “the son of possession of my house,” 
i. e. one who shall possess my house, my property, 
after my death, and is therefore exactly the same as 
the phrase in the next verse, “the son of my house 


ELIEZER 


142 


ELIEZER BEX-XATHAN 


paraphrased by “one born in mine house”) 1 
is mine heir.” This removes every objection to Elie- 
zer’s being of Damascus, and enables us to dispense 
with t lie tradition; for it is no longer necessary to sup- 
pose that Eliezer was a house-born slave, or a servant 
at all, and leaves it more probable that he was some 
near relative whom Abraham regarded as his heir-at- 
law. It is by no means certain that “this Eliezer” 
was present in Abraham’s camp at all; and we, of 
course, cannot know in what degree he stood related 
to Abraham, or under what circumstances he -was born 
at, or belonged to Damascus. It is possible that he 
lived there at the very time w hen Abraham thus spoke 
of him, and that he is hence called “Eliezer of Da- 
mascus.” This view' removes another difficulty, which 
arises from the fact that, while Abraham speaks of ' 
Eliezer as his heir, bis nephew' Lot was in his neigh- | 
borhood, and had until lately been the companion of 
his wanderings. If Eliezer w’as Abraham’s servant, 
it might well occasion surprise that lie should speak 
of him and not of Lot as bis heir; but this surprise 
ceases when w r e regard Eliezer as also a relative, and 
if so, a nearer relative than Lot, although not, like 
Lot, the companion of his journeys. Some have sup- 
posed that Lot and Eliezer w ere, in fact, the same per- 
son ; and this would he an excellent explanation if 
the Scriptures afforded sufficient grounds for it. (See 
Gesenins, Thes. Ueb. s. v. p'^'2 ; Rosenmiiller, on Gen. 
xv ; Knobel, Comment, in loc.) — Kitto, s. v. 

2. A son of Beclier, and grandson of Benjamin (1 
Cliron. vii, 8). B.C. post 185C. 

3. (Josephus ’EXsd^apoc, A nt. ii, 13, 2.) The sec- 
ond of the two sons of Moses and Zipporali, born dur- 
ing the exile in Midian, to whom his father gave this 
name, “ because, said be, the God of my fathers w’as 
my help, that delivered me from the sword of Pha- 
raoh” (Exod. xviii, 4; 1 Cliron. xxiii, 15, 17). B.C. 
cir. 1G00. lie remained with his mother and brother 
Gersliom, in the care of Jethro his grandfather, when 
Moses returned to Egypt (Exod. iv, 18), she having 
been sent back to her father by Moses (Exod. xviii, 
2), though she set off to accompany him, and went 
part of the way with him. Jethro brought back Zip- 
porah and her two sons to Moses in the wilderness, 
after be heard of the departure of the Israelites from 
Egypt (xviii). Eliezer had one son, Behabiab, from 
whom sprang a numerous posterity (1 Cliron. xxiii, 
17 ; xxvi, 25, 2G). Shelomitb, in the reigns of Saul 
and David (ver. 28), who bad the care of all the treas- 
ures of things dedicated to God, W'as descended from 
Eliezer in the Gtli generation, if the genealogy in 1 
Cliron. xxvi, 25, is complete. — Smith, s. v. 

4. One of the priests who blew' with trumpets before 
the ark when it was brought to Jerusalem (1 Chron. 
xv, 24). B.C. 1043. 

5. Son of Zichri, and chief of the Reubenites under 
David (1 Cliron. xxvii, 1G). B.C. ante 1013. 

6. A prophet (son of Dodavah of Mareshah), who 
foretold to .Teliosliaphat (q. v.) that the merchant fleet 
which he fitted out in partnership with Ahaziah should 
be wrecked, and thus prevented from sailing to Tar- 
shisli (2 Cliron. xx, 37). B.C. 805. 

7. Son of Jorim, ami father of Joseh, of the private 
lineage of David prior to Snlathicl (Luke iii, 20). B.C. 
ante 588. 

8. One of the chiefs of the Jews during the exile, 
sent by Ezra, with others from Ahavn, to Casiphia, to 
induce some Levitcs and Nethinim to join the party 
returning to Jerusalem (Ezra viii, 1G). B.C. 450. 

9. < hie of the priests (of the kindred of Jeshua) w ho 
divorced his Gentile wife after the exile (Ezra x, 18). 
B.C. 158. 

JO. A Levite who did the same (Ezra x, 23). B.C. 
458. 

11. An Israelite of the lineage of llarim, who did 
the same (Ezra x, 31). B.C. 458. 


Eliezer ben-Elias Aschenazi (i. e. son of Eli- 
jah , the German ), a distinguished Rabbi, was born 
about the opening of the lGtli century, and practiced 
medicine nt Cremona. Obliged to leave that town, lie 
W'ent to Constantinople, and w'as intrusted with the 
care of the synagogue at Naxos, in the Archipelago. 
Finally he w T ent to Poland, and w r as made chief Rabbi 
of tlie synagogue at Posen. His coreligionists regard 
him as one of the most learned men of the lGtli cen- 
tury. lie died at Cracow in 158G. He published 
Cwi‘ 1 (Cremona, 1570, and often), a commentary 
on Esther: — JTrr/2 (Work of Jehovah), in which 
he describes the historical events of the Pentateuch 
(Venice, 1583; Cracow, 1584, and later), and one or 
two less important works.— Hoefer, ATwr. Blog. Ginlr. 
xv, 827. (J. II. XV.) 

Eliezer ben-Hyrkanos, surnamed the Great, 
w'as born about the middle of the 1st century. He 
w'as of a good family, but liis early education was very 
much neglected, and at the age of 28, urged by an 
awakened impulse after knowledge, be left bis father’s 
house and became a disciple of Jochanan ben-Zachni. 
Eliezer soon repaired his deficiencies, and became one 
of the distinguished Rabbins of his age. Profound in 
the Cabala (q. v.), he made many practical acquisi- 
tions in magical science, and became the thauiuatur- 
gist of the school. During the controversies between 
Gamaliel (q. v.) and the rival doctors at Jamnia, he 
founded a school at Lydda, wliwe his teaching appears 
to have assumed so mystical a character as to involve 
him in difficulties with the rabbinical authorities. The 
Karaites regarded Eliezer as one of the defenders cf 
their doctrines. He died about 73 A.D., at Caesarea, 
in Palestine. His principal work is J irke It. Eliezeris 
(edit. Princ. Ilebraiee.Venet. 1544, 4to), translated into 
Latin with notes by Vorstius (Leyd. 16-14, 4to), ed. by 
Abr. Aaron Broda, w ith a Hob. commentary (XVilna, 
1838, 4to), and often republished. See Boruitlui dcr 
It. Eliesir, by Loop. Zunz (Beilin, 1832), a critical ac- 
count of the w'ork and its author. He is regarded also 
as the author of Oreothchaiim ( The Way of Lift), which 
has been often reprinted. — lloefer, Nouv. Bioyr. Gaur. 
xv, 825-G ; Etheridge, Introd. to Ueb. Literature , p. GO 
sq. ; Griisse, AUgem. Literdrgesch. i, 1108 sq. (J.H.XV.) 

Eliezer ben- Judah (sometimes called Eleazar 
Garmiza, hut apparently without good reason), of 
Worms, the son of Kalonymos of Mentz, was one of 
the most distinguished Rabbins of the 13th century, 
lie w r as a pupil of Judah the Saint, and died in 1238. 
He w'rote thirty works, of which only a few' have been 
printed. The principal ones are: Yoreh Chcttaim 

“he will instruct sinners”) a liturgical and 
[ascetic formulary (Venice, 1589, 8vo, and ofteu): — 
Yeyn hei-Rekaeli (np“n “fN “wine of spicerv”), a 
cabalistic commentary on Canticles and Ruth (Lub- 
lin, 1608, 4to) : — S<plier Rokectch (n£* Fjjiced 

book”), on the fear of God and repentance (Kano, 
1505, fob, and often since) 2, etc., a commen- 

tary on the cabalistic book Jczirah (Mantua, 15G2, 4to, 
and since): — etc., a cabalistic exposition of 
the Pentateuch (extracts in Azulai’s ^H3, 

Leghorn, 1800):— on angelology (in pnit, 
Amst. 1701, 4 to). Several of his works in ISIS, are at 
the Bibliotheque de I'Oratoire at Paris.— lloefer, Xour. 
Biogr. Gener. xv, 820-7 ; Grasse, Allgem. Literdrgesch. 
iii, 521 ; Fiirst, Bibliotheca Judaica , i, 228. (J. H. 1\ .) 

Eliezer beii-Nathau, sometimes also surnamed 
Metz, from his native place, was a contemporary of 
Rashi, and eminent in the cabalistic science. His 
renown is greatly due to a work on Talnmdical law 
which be composed in 1152, under the title 
j ( stone of help), printed at Prague in 1610. The Rab- 
I bins Jachia and Wolf ascribe to him also the author- 


ELIGIUS 


143 


ELIIIU 


ship of Tsopknath Paaneach, but Rossi asserts that Eli- 
ezer of Spain was the veal author of that work. It 
appears to be only another title of the preceding work. 
Rewrote also *£02 (Constantinople, 1520, and 

later) and bspil (Cremona, 1554, and later); 

both relating to the Jewish ritual. — Hoefer, A7m\ Biop . 
Gener. xv, 82G ; Grasse, Allgem. Literiirgesch. iii, 502. 

Eligius, Eloi, or Eloysius (St.), bishop of No- 
von, one of the most eminent names in the ecclesiasti- 
cal history of France, was born at Cadillac, near Li- 
moges, in or shortly before the year 588. He learned 
the trade of a goldsmith, and became the most skilful 
artist of the day, especially in ornaments for churches 
and tombs. He gained the confidence of Clotaire 11, 
and stood high at his court. While working at his 
art, he always had an open Bible before him. He 
devoted his gains to works of piety, especially to the 
redemption of slaves from captivity, sometimes eman- 
cipating a hundred at one time. As a layman, he in- 
structed the common people constantly. Dagobert, 
the son and successor of Clotaire, made him liis treas- 
urer, and employed him for important missions, in 
which he was always successful. Thus he brought 
about a treaty of peace between Dagobert and Judica- 
hill, duke of Brittany. Eligius availed himself of his 
influence with the weak and licentious Dagobert to 
obtain large donations, which he used for the estab- 
lishment of churches, monasteries, and hospitals. In 
640, two years after the death of Dagobert, the major- 
domo Herchenoald, who was regent during the minor- 
ity of Clodvig II, in order to get rid of the influence 
of Eligius, appointed him bishop of Noyon. In this 
office he was in labors abundant for eighteen years, 
preaching, taking missionary tours, and founding 
churches and monasteries. Eligius seems to have 
been a thoroughly converted man, and his life is in- 
deed a light in a dark place. Eligius, together with 
his friend Audoenns (St.Oucn), archbishop of liheims, 
had a predominating influence upon the churches of 
Gaul ; and although most of the bishops disliked the 
rigor and severity of Eligius, they yielded to his zeal 
and authority. Thus, in 644, at a synod of Chalons 
sur Saone, very strict rules were given for the appoint- 
ment of bishops and abbots ; and the metropolitan 
Theodosius of Arles, who had violated many Church 
laws, was suspended from his office. When bishop 
Martin of Rome, in the Monothelitic controversy, was 
imprisoned and exiled by the emperor, the majority of 
the Gallic bishops, at a council held in Orleans, under 
the leadership of Eligius and Audoenns, declared for 
tlie pope and against the Monothelites, who were cru- 
elly persecuted. After the death of Clodvig II and 
Herchenoald, Eligius was recalled by the queen dow- 
ager Bathilde to the court, where he remained until 
shortly before his death. He died at Noyon Nov. 30, 
658 (or 659), and the people soon after began to vener- 
ate him as a saint. His life ( 17/ a S. Eligii ), written 
by his disciple Audoenns (St. Onen), will he found in 
D’Achery, Spicilegium , ii, 76-123, and in Migne, Pa- 
trol. Latin. Ixxxix, 474. The extracts from sermons 
of Eligius which are included in this biography arc 
almost verbally taken from the sermons of Caesarius 
of Arles. In its present form this work is undoubt- 
edly of a later origin. Sixteen homilies are given to 
him in Bib . Max. Patr. xii, 300 ; also in jMigne, Patrol. 
Latin, lxxxvii, 505; but their genuineness is ques- 
tioned. A letter from Eligius to bishop Desiderius of 
Cuhors is given in Canisii Antiquit. Lection, ed. Bas- 
nage, torn, i, and in Migne, lxxxvii, G57. See Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. iii, 7G0; Hoefcr, Nouv. Biog. Gener. xv, 
004; Neander, Ch. Hist, iii, 41, 42; Neander, Light in 
Dark Places; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. bk. ii, ch. vii, pt. ii, 
ch. ii, n. 24. 

Elihoe'nai (Heb. Elyehoeynay ' , to- 

ward Jehovah are my eyes'), the name of two men. See 
also Elioenai and Elienai. 


1. (Sept. ’E\uoi]vai v. r. ’EXtomm, Yulg. Elioenai.) 
The seventh and youngest son of Aleshelcmiah (q. v.) 
the Levite, of the time of David (1 Cliron. xxvi, 3, 
where the name is improperly Anglicized “ Elioenai”). 
B.C. 1043-13. 

2. (Sept. 'E Xiactvct v. r. ’EXtavct, Vulg. Elioenai.) 
Son of Zerahiah of the “ sons of Pahath-Moab,” who 
returned with 200 males from the exile (Ezra viii, 4). 
B.C. 459. 

Eliho'reph (Heb. Elicho'reph , Eprpix, God is 
his recompense; Sept. ’EXiyopg^ v. r. ’EA«0 and ’Ew- 
pg^t), son of Shislia, and appointed, with his brother 
Ahiah, royal scribe (*3*0) by Solomon (1 Kings iv, 
3). B.C* 1012. 

Eli'hu (Heb. Ellhit ', [but abbreviated 

in Job xxxii, 4; xxxv, 1; 1 Chron. xxvi, 7 ; 
xxvii, 18], whose God is //e, i. e. Jehovah), the namo 
of five men. 

1. (Sept. ’EA(oi'c-) One of Job’s friends, described 
as “the son of Barachel, a Buzite, of the kindred of 
Ram” (Job xxxii, 2). This is usually understood to 
imply that he was descended from Buz, the sou of 
Abraham’s brother Nahor, from whose family the city 
called Buz (Jer. xxv, 23) also took its name. The 
Chaldee paraphrase asserts that Elihu was a rela- 
tion of Abraham. Elihu’s name does not appear 
among those of the friends who came in the first in- 
stance to condole with Job, nor is his presence indica- 
ted till the debate between the afflicted man and his 
three friends had been brought to a conclusion. Then, 
finding there was no answer to Job’s last speech, he 
comes forward with considerable modesty, which he 
loses as lie proceeds, to remark on the debate, and to 
deliver his own opinion on the points at issue (Job 
xxxii, xxxvii). B.C. cir. 2200. It appears, from the 
manner in which Elihu introduces himself (Job xxxii, 
3-7), that he was much the youngest of the party; 
and it is evident that he had been present from the 
commencement of the discussion, to which lie had paid 
very close attention. This would suggest that the 
debate between Job and his friends was carried on in 
the presence of a deeply-interested auditory, among 
which was this Elihu, who could not forbear from 
interfering when the controversy appeared to have 
reached an unsatisfactory conclusion (see Kitto’s Daily 
Bible Illust. in loc.). lie expresses his desire to mod- 
erate between the disputants ; and his words alone 
touch upon, although they do not thoroughly handle, 
that idea of the disciplinary nature of suffering, which 
is the key to Job’s perplexity and doubt ; but, as in 
the whole book, the greater stress is laid on God’s un- 
searchable wisdom, and the implicit faith which lie de- 
mands (see Velthuysen, De Ellen carmine , Rotterdam, 
1789-90). lie does not enlarge on any supposahle 
wickedness in Job as having brought his present dis- 
tresses upon him, hut controverts his replies, liis infer- 
ences, and his arguments, lie observes on the mys- 
terious dispensations of Providence, which he insists, 
however they may appear to mortals, are full of wis- 
dom and mercy ; that the righteous have their share 
I of prosperity in this life no less than the wicked ; that 
God is supreme, and that it becomes ns to acknowl- 
edge and submit to that supremacy, since “the Crea- 
tor wisely rules the world he made and he draws 
instances of benignity from the constant wonders of 
creation, of the seasons, etc. His language is copious, 
glowing, and sublime ; and it deserves notice that Eli- 
liu does not appear to have offended God hv his senti- 
ments; nor is any sacrifice of atonement commanded 
for him as for the. other speakers in the poem. It is 
almost pardonable that the character of Elihu has been 
thought figurative of a personage interposed between 
God and man — a mediator — one speaking “without 
terrors,” and not disposed to overcharge mankind. 
This sentiment may have had its influence on the ac- 


ELIJAH 


144 


ELIJAH 


ceptabilitv and preservation of the book of Job (see 
Hodges’s Elihu , Oxford, 1750). See Jon (Book of). 

2. (Sept. *H\«ou.) Son of Tohu, and grandfather of 
Elkanah, Samuel’s father (1 Sam. i, 1). In the state- 
ments of the genealogy of Samuel in 1 Chron. vi the 
name Elii:l (q. v.) occurs in the same position — son 
ofTonh, and father of Jeroham (vi, 34 [Ileb. 19]); and 
also Eli . vn (vi, 'J7 [Ileb. 12]), father of Jeroham, and 
grandson of Zophai. The general opinion is that Eli- 
hu is the original name, and the two latter forms but 
copyists’ variations of it. — Smith, s. v. 

3. (Sept. ’EAtoi'n v. r. £A ifiovS.) One of the chili- 
archs of Manasseh who joined David at Ziklag (1 
Chron. xii, 20), after he had left the Philistine army 
on the eve of the battle of Gilboa, and who assisted 
him against the marauding band (‘T^S) of the Amale- 
kites (comp. 1 Sam. xxx). B.C. 1053. 

4. (Sept. 'EAtou.) One of the eminently able-bod- 
ied members of the family of Obed-edom (apparently 
a grandson by Shemaiah), who were appointed porters 
of the Temple under David (1 Chron. xxvi, 7). B.C. 
1013. Terms are applied to all these doorkeepers 
which appear to indicate that they were not only 
“strong men,” as in A.AL, but also fighting men. 
(See ver. G, 7, 8, 12, in which occur the -words = 
army, and 2 warriors or heroes.) 

5. (Sept. *EAm J.) A chief of the tribe of Judah, 
said to be “of the brethren of David” (1 Chron. xxvii, 
18), and hence supposed by some to have been his old- 
est brother Eliab (1 Sam. xvi, G). B.C. 1013 or ante. 

Eli'jah (Ileb. Eliyah ', ST* whose God is Jehovah , 
2 Kings i, 3, 4, 8, 12; 1 Chron. viii, 27 ; Ezra x, 21, 
2G ; Mai. iv, 5 ; elsewhere in the prolonged form Eli- 
ya'hu , Sept. ’HAiou v. r. ’ll\iag ; X. T. *HAi- 

ag ; Josephus, TlAiVc, Ant . viii, 13, 4; Vnlg. Elias'), 
the name of several men in the O. T., but the later 
ones apparently all namesakes of the famous prophet. 

X. “Elijah tiie Tishbite,” the “Elias” of the 
N. T., a chaiacter whose rare, sudden, and brief ap- 
pearances, undaunted courage and fiery zeal — the 
brilliancy of whose triumphs — the pathos of whose 
despondency — the glory of whose departure, and the 
calm beauty of whose reappearance on the Mount of 
Transfiguration — throw such a halo of brightness 
around him as is equalled by none of his compeers in 
the sacred story. 

1. Origin . — This wonder-working prophet is intro- 
duced to our notice like another Melchizedek (Gen. x, 
4, 18 : Heb. vii, 3), without any mention of his father 
or mother, or of the beginning of his days — as if he 
had dropped out of that cloudy chariot which, after 
his work was -done on earth, conveyed him back to 
heaven. “Elijah the Tishbite, of the inhabitants of 
Gilead,” is literally all that is given us to know of his 
parentage and locality (1 Kings xvii, 1). The He- 
brew text is rrrnn The 

third word may be pointed (1), as in the present Maso- 
retic text, to mean “from the inhabitants of Gilead,” 
or (2) “from Tishbi of Gilead,” which, with a slight 
change in form, is what the Sept, has (o Ik 0£it<t£/3wi'). 
The latter is followed by Ewald (hr. Gcsck. iii, 48G, 
note). Lightfoot assumes, but without giving his au- 
thority, that Elijah was from Jahcsh-Gilead. By Jo- 
sephus he is said to have come from Thesbon — Ik 
ttoA ti»Q OcfT/hoio/c Tijc IV A o auriCoQ \ojpar (J fit. viii, 
13, 2\ Perhaps this may have been read as Ileshbon, 
a city of the priests, and given rise to the statement 
of Epiphnnius that he was “of the tribe of Aaron,” 
and grandson of Zadok. (See also the Chron. Pasch. 
in Fabricius, Cod. Pscudep. F. T. p. 1070, etc. ; and Qua- 
resmius, Elueid. ii, G05.) According to Jewish tradi- 
tion — grounded on a certain similarity between the 
fiery zeal of the two — Elijah was identical with Phi- 
nehas, the son of Eleazar the priest, lie wits also the 
angel of Jehovah who appeared in fire to Gideon 


(Lightfoot on John i, 21 ; Eisenmenger, i, GSG). Arab 
tradition places his birthplace at Gilhad (Jalud), a 
few miles north of es-Salt (Irby, p. 98), and his tomb 
near Damascus (Mislin, i, 490). The common assump- 
tion — perhaps originating with Hiller ( Onom . p. 947) 
or Keland (Pal. p. 1035) — is that he was born in the 
town of Tliisbe (q. v.), mentioned in Tob. i, 2. But, 
not to insist on the fact that this Tliisbe was not in 
Gilead, but in Xaphtali, it is nearly certain that the 
name has no real existence in that passage, but arises 
from a mistaken translation of the same Hebrew word 
which is rendered “inhabitants” in 1 Kings xvii, 1. 
See Tishbite. 

2. Personal Appearance. — The mention of Gilead, 
however, is the key-note to much that is most charac- 

i teristic in the story of the prophet. Gilead was the 
j country on the further side of the Jordan — a country 
of chase and pasture, of tent-villages and mountain- 
castles, inhabited by a people not settled and civilized 
like those who formed the communities of Ephraim 
and Judah, but of wandering, irregular habits, exposed 
to the attacks of the nomad tribes of the desert, and 
gradually conforming more and more to the habits of 
those tribes ; making war with the Hagarites, and 
taking the countless thousands of their cattle, and 
then dwelling in their stead (1 Chron. v, 10, 19 -22). 
See Gilead. With Elijah this is seen at every turn. 
Of his appearance as he “stood before” Ahab — with 
the suddenness of motion to this day characteristic of 
the Bedouins from his native hills — we can perhaps 
I realize something from the touches, few, but strong, 
j of the narrative. Of his height little is to be inferred 
— that little is in favor of its being beyond the ordi- 
nary size. His chief characteristic was his hair, long 
and thick, and hanging down his back, and which, if 
not betokening the immense strength of Samson, yet 
accompanied powers of endurance no less remarkable. 

| See Hair. His ordinary clothing consisted of a girdle 
of skin round his loins, which he tightened when about 
to move quick!}' (1 Kings xviii, 4G). But in addition 
to this he occasionally wore the “mantle” (q. v.), or 
cape, of sheep-skin, which has supplied us with one of 
our most familiar figures of speech. In this mantle, 
in moments of emotion, he would hide his face (1 
Kings xix, 13), or when excited would roll it up as 
into a kind of staff. On one occasion we find him 
bending himself down upon the ground with his face 
between his knees. Such, so far as the scant}' notices 
| of the record will allow us to conceive it, -was the gen- 
! eral appearance of the great prophet — an appearance 
which there is no reason to think -was other than un- 
common even at that time. The solitary life in which 
these external peculiarities had been assumed had also 
nurtured that fierceness of zeal and that directness of 
address which so distinguished him. It. was in the 
wild loneliness of the hills and ravines of Gilead that 
the knowledge of Jehovah, the living God of Israel, 
had been impressed on his mind, which was to form 
the subject of his mission to the idolatrous court and 
country of Israel. 

3. History. — The northern kingdom had at this time 
forsaken almost entirely the faith in Jehovah. The 
worship of the calves had been a departure from him, 
it was a violation of his command against material 
resemblances ; but still it would appear that even in 
the presence of the calves Jehovah was acknowledged, 
and they were at any rate a national institution, not 
directly imported from the idolatries of any of the 
surrounding countries. See Calf. They were an- 
nounced by Jeroboam as the preservers of the nation 
during the great crisis of its existence: “ Behold thy 
gods, O Israel, that brought thee up out of the land 
of Egypt” (1 Kings xii, 28). But the case was quite 
different when Ahab, not content with the calf-wor- 
ship— “as if it bad been a light thing to walk in the 
sins of Jeroboam, the son of Xcbat” — married the 
daughter of the king of Sidon, and introduced on the 


ELIJAH 


145 


ELIJAH 


most extensive scale (Josephus, Ant. ix, 6, C) the for- j 
eign religion of his wife’s family, the worship of the 
Phoenician Baal. What this worship consisted of we | 
are ignorant — doubtless it was of a gay, splendid, and i 
festal character, and therefore very opposite to the 
grave, severe service of the Mosaic ritual. Attached 
to it and to the worship of Asherah (A. V. “Ashta- 
roth,” and “the groves”) were licentious and impure 
rites, which in earlier times had brought the heaviest I 
judgments on the nation (Numb, xxv; Judg. ii, 13, I 
14 ; iii, 7, 8). But the most obnoxious and evil char- 
acteristic of the Baal religion was that it was the wor- I 
ship of power, of mere strength, as opposed to that of 
a God of righteousness and goodness — a foreign relig- 
ion, imported from nations the hatred of whom was 
inculcated in every page of the law, as opposed to the 
religion of that God who had delivered the nation from 
the bondage of Egypt, had “ driven out the heathen 
with his hand, and planted them in,” and through 
whom their forefathers had “trodden down their ene- 
mies, and destroyed those that rose up against them.” 
It is as a witness against these two evils that Elijah 
conies forward. (B.C. cir. 907.) 

(1.) What we may call the first act in his life em- ! 
braces between three and four years — three years and 
six months for the duration of the drought, according 
to the statements of the New Testament (Luke iv, 25 ; 
James v, 17), and three or four months more for the 
journey to Iloreb and the return to Gilead (1 Kings 
xvii, 1-xix, 21). His introduction is of the most 
startling description : he suddenly appears before 
Ahab, as with the unrestrained freedom of Eastern 
manners he would have no difficulty in doing, and 
proclaims the vengeance of Jehovah for the apostasy 
of the king. This he does in the remarkable formula 
evidently characteristic of himself, and adopted after 
his departure by his follower Elisha — a formula which 
includes everything at issue between himself and the 
king — the name of Jehovah — his being the God of 
Israel — the Living God — Elijah being his messenger, 
and then — the special lesson of the event — that the 
god of power and of nature should be beaten at his 
own weapons. “As Jehovah, God of Israel, liveth, 
before whom I stand,” whose constant servant I am, 
“there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but 
according to my word.” Before, however, he spoke 
thus, it would seem that be had been warning this 
most wicked king as to the fatal consequences which 
must result both to himself and his people from the 
iniquitous course he was then pursuing, and this may 
account for the apparent abruptness with which he 
opens his commission. What immediate action fol- 
lowed on this we are not told ; but it is plain that Eli- 
jah had to fly before some threatened vengeance, ei- 
ther of the king, or more probably of the qneen (comp, 
xix, 2). Perhaps it was at this juncture that Jezebel 
“cut off the prophets of Jehovah” (1 Kings xviii, 4). 
We can imagine Ahab and Jezebel being greatly in- 
censed against Elijah for having foretold and prayed 
that such calamities might befall them. For some 
time they might attribute the drought under which 
the nation suffered to natural causes, and not to the 
interposition of the prophet; and, therefore, however 
they might despise him as a vain enthusiast, they 
would not proceed immediately to punish him. When, 
however, they saw the denunciation of Elijah taking 
effect far more extensively than had been anticipated, 
they would naturally seek to wreak their vengeance 
upon him as the cause of their sufferings. But we do 
not find him taking one step for his own preservation 
till the God whom he served interposed. lie was di- 
rected to the brook Cherith, either one of the torrents 
which cleave the high table-lands of his native hills, 
or on the west of Jordan, more in the neighborhood 
of Samaria, perhaps the present wady Kelt. See 
Cherith. There, in the hollow of the torrent-bed, he 
remained, supported in the miraculous manner with 
III.— Iv 


which we are all familiar, till the failing of the brook 
obliged him to forsake it. How long he remained in 
the Cherith is uncertain. The Hebrew expression is 
simply “ at the end of days nor does Josephus afford 
us any more information. A vast deal of ingenuity 
has been devoted to explaining away Elijah’s “ra- 
vens.” The Hebrew word, orebini , has been 

interpreted as “Arabians,” as “merchants,” as in- 
habitants of some neighboring town of Orbo or Orhi. 
By others Elijah has been held to have plundered a 
raven’s nest, and this twice a day regularly for several 
months ! See Haven. 

His next refuge, under the divine guidance (1 Kings 
xvii, 9), was at Zarephath, a Phoenician town lying 
between Tyre and Sidon, certainly the last place at 
which the enemy of Baal would be looked for. The 
widow woman in whose house he lived is thought, 
however, to have been an Israelite, and no Baal-wor- 
shipper, by some who take her adjuration by “Jeho- 
vah thy God” as an indication. But the obvious cir- 
cumstances of the case, and her mention by our Sav- 
iour (Luke iv, 2G), imply her heathen character. Here 
Elijah performed the miracles of prolonging the oil and 
the meal, and restored the son of the widow to life after 
his sudden death. The traditional scene of his meet- 
ing with the widow was in a wood to the south of the 
town (Mislin, i, 532, who, however, does not give his 
authority). In the time of Jerome the spot was marked 
by a tower (Jerome, Ep. Paulee). At a later period a 
: church dedicated to the prophet was erected over the 
house of the widow, in which his chamber and her 
kneading-trough were shown (Anton. Martyr and Pho- 
cas, in Reland, p. 985). This church was called ro 
y?;p£t on (A eta Sanctorum). The Jewish tradition, 
quoted by Jerome, was that the resuscitated boy was 
the servant who afterwards accompanied Elijah, and 
finally became the prophet Jonah (Jerome, Pref. to 
Jonak; and see the citations from the Talmuds in Ei- 
senmenger, ii, 725). 

The drought continued, and at last the full horrors 
of famine, caused by the failure of the crops, descended 
on Samaria. During this time the prophet was called 
upon passively to suffer God’s will ; now he must, once 
again resume the more active duties of life ; he must 
make one great public effort more to reclaim his coun- 
try from apostasy and ruin. According to the word 
of the Lord, he returned to Israel ; Ahab was yet alive, 
and unreformed ; Jezebel, his impious consort, was 
still mad upon her idols; in a word, the prophets of 
Baal were prophesying lies , the priests were bearing rule 
by their means , and the people loved to have it so. The 
king and his chief domestic officer had divided between 
them the mournful duty of ascertaining that neither 
round the springs, which are so frequent a feature of 
central Palestine, nor in the nooks and crannies of the 
most shaded torrent-beds, was there any of the herb- 
age left, which in those countries is so certain an indi- 
cation of the presence of moisture. No one short of 
the two chief persons of the realm could be trusted 
with this quest for life or death — “Ahab went one way 
by himself, and Obadiah went another way by him- 
self.” It is the moment for the reappearance of the 
prophet. Wishing not to tempt God by going unnec- 
essarily into danger, he lirst presented himself to good 
Obadiah (1 Kings xviii, 7). There, suddenly planted 
in his path, is the man whom he and his master have 
been seeking for more than three years. Before the 
sudden apparition of that wild figure, and that stern, 
unbroken countenance, Obadiah could not but fall on 
his face. Elijah requested him to announce to Ahab 
that he had returned. Obadiah, apparently stung by 
the unkindness of this request, replied, “ What have I 
sinned, that thou shouklest thus expose me to Ahab’s 
rage, who will certainly slay me for not apprehending 
thee, for whom he has so long and so anxiously sought 
in all lands and in confederate countries, that they 


ELIJAH 


14G 


ELIJAH 


should not harbor a traitor whom he looks upon as the | 
author of the famine,” etc. Moreover, he would deli- 
catch' intimate to Elijah how he had actually jeopard- 
ed his own life in securing that of one hundred of the 
Lord’s prophets, and whom he had fed at his own ex- 
pense. {Satisfied with Elijah’s reply to this touching 
appeal, wherein he removed all his fears about the 
Spirit's carrying him away (as 2 Kings ii, 11-10 ; Ezek. 
iii, 4; Aets viii, SO), he resolves to be the prophet’s 
messenger to Ahab. Intending to be revenged on 
him, or to inquire when rain might be expected, Ahab 
now came forth to meet Elijah. lie at once charged 
him with troubling Israel, i. e. with being the main 
cause of all the calamities which he and the nation 
had suffered. But Elijah flung back the charge upon 
himself, assigning the real cause to be his own sin of 
idolatry. Regarding, however, his magisterial posi- 
tion, while he reproved his sin, he requests him to ex- 
ercise his authority in summoning an assembly to 
Mount Carmel, that the controversy between them 
might be decided by a direct miracle from heaven 
(comp. Matt, xvi, 1). Whatever were his secret mo- 
tives, Ahab accepted this proposal. As fire was the 
element over which Baal was supposed to preside, the 
prophet proposes (wishing to give them eA'ery advan- 
tage), that, two bullocks being slain, and laid each 
upon a distinct altar, the one for Baal, the other for Je- 
hovah, whichever should be consumed by fire must 
proclaim whose the people of Israel were, and whom 
it was their duty to serve. The people consent to this 
proposal, because, it may be, they were not altogether 
ignorant how God had formerly answered by fire (Gen. 
i v, 4 ; Lev. ix, 24 ; Judg.vi,21; xiii, 20 ; 1 Chron. xxi, 
26; 2 Chron. vii, 1). Elijah will have summoned not 
only all the elders of Israel, but also the four hundred 
priests of Baal belonging to Jezebel's court, and the 
four hundred and fifty who were dispersed over the 
kingdom. The former, however, did not attend, be- 
ing, perhaps, glad to shelter themselves under the plea 
that Jezebel would not allow' them to do so. Why 
Mount Carmel, which we do not hear of until now', 
w as chosen in preference to the nearer Ebal or Geri- 
zim, is not evident. Possibly Elijah thought it wise 
to remove the place of the meeting to a distance from 
Samaria. Possibly in the existence of the altar of Je- 
hovah (xviii, 60) — in ruins, and therefore of earlier 
erection — we have an indication of an ancient sanctity 
attaching to the spot. On the question of the particu- 
lar part of the ridge of Carmel which formed the site 
of the meeting, there cannot be much doubt. See 
Carmel. 

There are few' more sublime stories in history than 
this. On the one hand the solitary servant of Jeho- 
vah, accompanied by his one attendant, with his wild 
shaggy hair, his scanty garb, and sheepskin cloak, but 
with calm dignity of demeanor, and the minutest reg- 
ularity of procedure; on the other hand, the prophets 
of Baal and Ashtaroth, doubtless in all the splendor of 
their vestments (2 Kings x, 22\ with the wild din of 
their “vain repetitions” and the maddened fury of 
their disappointed hopes, and the silent people sur- 
rounding all — these things form a picture which bright- 
ens into fresh distinctness every time w*e consider it. 
Having reconstructed an altar w hich had once belong- 
ed to God, with twelve stones — as if to declare that the 
twelve tribes of Israel should again be united in the 
service of Jehovah — and having laid thereon his bul- 
lock, and filled the trench by which it was surrounded 
with large quantities of water, lest any suspicion of 
deceit might occur to any mind, the prophet gives 
place to the Baalites — allows them to make trial first. 
In vain did these deceived and deceiving men call, 
from morning till evening, upon Baal — in vain did 
they now' mingle their owm blood with that of the sac- 
rifice : no answer was given — no fire descended. Eli- 
jah having rebuked their folly and wicke'dness with 
the sharpest irony, and it being at last evident to all 


that their efforts to obtain the wished-for fire were 
vain, now r , at the time of the evening sacrifice, offered 
up his prayer. The Baalites’ prayer was long, that 
of the prophet is short — charging God with the care 
of his covenant, of his truth, and of his glory — when, 
“ behold, the fire came down, licked up the water, and 
consumed not only the bulloek, but the very stones of 
the altar also.” The effect of this on the mind of the 
people w T as what the prophet desired : acknowledging 
the awful presence of the Godhead, they exclaim, as 
with one voice, “ The Lord, he is God ; the Lord, he is 
God!” Seizing the opportunity while the people’s 
hearts v r ere warm with the fresh conviction of this 
miracle, he bade them take those juggling priests and 
kill them at Kishon, that their blood might help to fill 
that river which their idolatry had provoked God to 
empty by drought. All this Elijah might law fully do 
at God’s direction, and under the sanction of his law 
(Deut. xiii, 5; xviii, 20). Ahab having now' publicly 
■ vindicated God’s violated law' by giving his royal 
sanction to the execution of Baal’s priests, Elijah in- 
formed him that he may go up to his tent on Carmel 
to take refreshment, for God w ill send the desired rain. 
In the mean time he prayed earnestly (James v, 17, 
18) for this blessing: God hears and answers: a little 
cloud arises out of the Mediterranean Sea, in sight of 
which the prophet now was, diffuses itself gradually 
over the entire face of the heavens, and now' empties 
its refreshing W'aters upon the whole land of Israel ! 
Here was another proof of the divine mission of the 
prophet, from w hich, we should imagine, the whole na- 
tion must have profited ; but subsequent events w'ould 
seem to prove that the impression produced by these 
dealings of God was of a very partial and temporary 
character. Impressed with the hope that the report 
of God’s miraculous actings at Carmel might not only 
reach the ear, but also penetrate and soften the hard 
heart of Jezebel, and anxious that tlie reformation of 
his country should spread in and about Jezrcel also, 
Elijah, strengthened, as w*e are told, from on high, now 
accompanies Ahab thither on foot. The ride across 
the plain to Jezreel w r as a distance of at least 16 miles ; 
the prophet, with true Arab endurance, running before 
the chariot, but also, with true Arab instinct, stopping 
short of the city, and going no further than the “en- 
trance of Jezreel.” 

So far the triumph had been complete ; but the spir. 
it of Jezebel was not to be so easily overcome, and her 
first act is a vow of vengeance against the author of 
this destruction. “ God do so to me, and more also,” 
so ran her exclamation, “ if I make not thy life as the 
life of one of them by to-morrow about this time.” It 
was no duty of Elijah to expose himself to unnecessary 
dangers, and, as at his first introduction, so now, he 
takes lefuge in flight. The danger was great, and 
the refuge must be distant. The first stage on the 
journey w f as Beersheba — “ Beersheba which belongeth 
to Judah,” says the narrative, with a touch betraying 
its Israelitish origin. Here, at the ancient haunt of 
those fathers of his nation whose memory was so dear 
to him, and on the very confines of cultivated country, 
Elijah halted. Ilis servant — according to Jewish tra- 
dition, the hoy ofZarephath — he left in the town, while 
he himself set out alone into the w ilderness — the waste 
uninhabited region which surrounds the south of Pal- 
estine. The labors, anxieties, and excitement of the 
last few r days had proved too much even for that iron 
frame and that stern resolution. Ilis spirit is quite 
| broken, and he wanders forth over the dreary sweeps 
of those rocky hills wishing for death — “ It is enough ! 
Lord, let me die, for I am not better than my fathers.” 
The man whose prayer had raised the dead, had shut 
and opened heaven, he who had been so wonderfully 
preserved by God at Cherith and Xarephath, and who 
dared to tax Ahab to his face with being Israel’s 
trouhler, is now terrified and disconsolate, thus afford- 
ing a practical evidence of what the apostle James 


ELIJAH 


147 


ELIJAH 


says of him, that he was a man of like passions with 
us. Ilis now altered state of mind would seem to 
have arisen out of an exaggerated expectation of what 
God designed to effect through the miracles exhibited 
to, and the judgments poured upon this guilty nation. 
He seems to have thought that, as complete success 
did not crown the last great effort he had made to re- 
form Israel, there could not be the slightest use in la- 
boring for this end any longer. It is almost impossi- 
ble not to conclude from the terms of the story that he 
was entirely without provisions for this or any jour- 
ney. But God, who had brought his servant into this 
difficulty, provided him with the means of escaping 
from it. lie now, alone in the wilderness and at 
Mount Iloreb, will at once touch his heart and correct 
his pet nl an ey by the ministration of his angel, and by 
a fearful exhibition of his divine power. The prophet, 
in a fit of despair, laid himself down beneath a lone 
“juniper-tree” (Hebrew inx CHS, one Rothem-tree ). 
See Juniper. The indented rock opposite the gate of 
the Greek convent Deir Mar-Etyas, between Jerusalem 
and Bethlehem, which is now shown to travellers as 
the spot on which the prophet rested on this occasion, 
appears at an earlier date not to have been so restrict- 
ed, but was believed to be the place on which he was 
“accustomed to sleep” (Sandys, lib. iii, p. 17G; Maun- 
drell, Ear. Trav. p. 45G), and the site of the convent as 
that where he u r as born (Gaysforde, loOG, in Bonar, p. 
117). Neither the older nor the later story can be be- 
lieved ; but it is possible that they may have origina- 
ted in some more trustworthy tradition of his having 
rested here on his southward journey, in all probabil- 
ity taken along this very route. (See a curious state- 
ment by Quarcsmius of the extent to winch the rock 
had been defaced in his ow n time “ by the piety or im- 
piet}'” of the Christian pilgrims, Elurulatio, ii, G05 ; 
comp. Doubdan, Voyage, etc. p. 144.) In this position 
the prophet was wakened from his despondent dream 
beneath the solitary bush of the wilderness, was fed 
with the bread and the water "which to this day are all 
a Bedouin's requirements, and went forward, “in the 
strength of that food,” a journey of fort} 1 ' days, “to the 
mount of God, even to Iloreb.” Here, in “ the cave” 
(il^S'^il), one of the numerous caverns in those awful 
mountains — perhaps some traditional sanctuary of that 
hallowed region, at any rate well known — be remain- 
ed for certainly one night 0]^^). In the morning 
came the “"word of Jehovah” — the question, “What 
doest thou here, Elijah ? Driven by what hard neces- 
sity dost thou seek this spot, on wTiich the glory of Je- 
hovah has in former times been so signally show'll?” 
In answer to this invitation the prophet opens his 
griefs. He has been very zealous for Jehovah; blit 
force has been vain ; one cannot stand against a mul- 
titude ; none follow him, and he is left alone, flying 
for his life from the sword which has slain his breth- 
ren. The reply comes in that ambiguous and indirect 
form in which it seems necessary that the deepest com- 
munications with the human mind should be couched 
to be effectual. He is directed to leave the cavern 
and stand on the mountain in the open air, face to face 
with Jehovah. Then, as before with Moses (Exod. 
xxxiv, G), “the Lord passed by;” passed in all the 
terror of his most appalling manifestations. The fierce 
wind tore the solid mountains and shivered the granite 
cliffs of Sinai; the earthquake crash reverberated 
through the defiles of those naked valleys; the fire 
burnt in the incessant blaze of Eastern lightning. 
Like these, in their degree, had been Elijah’s own 
modes of procedure, but the conviction is now forced 
upon him that in none of these is Jehovah to be 
know n. Then, penetrating the dead silence which fol- 
lowed these manifestations, came the fourth mysteri- 
ous symbol — “the still small voice.” What sound 
this was — whether articulate voice or not, we cannot 
determine ; but low and still as it w r as, it spoke in 


louder accents to the wounded heart of Elijah than the 
roar and blaze which had preceded it. To him, no 
less unmistakably than to Moses centuries before, it 
was proclaimed that Jehovah was “merciful and gra- 
cious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and 
truth.” Elijah knew the call, and at once stepping 
forward and hiding his face in his mantle, stood wait- 
ing for the divine communication. It is in the same 
w'ords as before, and so is his answ'er; but. with what 
different force must the question have fallen on his 
ears, and the answ r er left his lips! “Before his en- 
trance to the cave he was comparatively a novice ; 
when he left it he w r as an initiated man. lie had 
thought that the earthquake, the tire, the w r ind, must 
be the great witnesses of the Lord. But lie w r as not 
in them; not they, but the still small voice had that 
awe in it wTiich forced the prophet to cover his face 
w ith his mantle. What a conclusion of all the past 
history! What an interpretation of its meaning!” 
(Maurice, Prophets and Kings, p. 13G). Not in the per- 
secutions of Ahab and Jezebel, nor in the slaughter of 
the prophets of Baal, but in the 7000 unknown wor- 
shippers w ho had not bowed the knee to Baal, was the 
assurance that Elijah was not alone as he had seemed 
to be. 

Three commands were laid on him — three changes 
were to he made. Instead of Bcn-hadad, Hazael was 
to he king of Syria ; instead of Aliab, Jehu the son of 
Nimshi was to be king of Israel ; and Elisha the son 
of Shaphat w'as to be his own successor. These per- 
sons shall revenge God’s quarrels: one shall begin, 
another shall prosecute, and the third shall perfect the 
vengeance on Israel. Of these three commands, the 
first two were reserved for Elisha to accomplish: the 
last only was executed by Elijah himself. It would 
almost seem as if his late trials had awakened in him 
a yearning for that affection and companionship which 
had hitherto been denied him. ITis first search was 
for Elisha. Apparently he soon found him; we must 
conclude at his native place, Abel-meholah, probably 
somewhere about the centre of the Jordan valley. See 
Abel-meiiolaii. Elisha w'as ploughing at the time, 
and Elijah “passed over to him” — possibly crossed 
the river — and, without uttering a word, cast his man- 
tle, the well-known sheepskin cloak, upon him, as if, 
by that familiar action (which was also a symbol of 
official investiture), claiming him for his son. A mo- 
ment of hesitation — hut the call was quickly accepted ; 
and then commenced that long period of service and 
intercourse wflffeh continued till Elijah’s removal, and 
wilich after that time procured for Elisha one of his 
best titles to esteem and reverence — “Elisha the son 
of Shaphat, who poured water on the hands of Eli- 
jah.” See Elisha. 

(2.) For about six years from this calling of Elislia 
we find no notice in the sacred history of Elijah, till 
God sent him once again to pronounce sore judgments 
upon Ahab and Jezebel for the murder of unoffending 
Nabotli (1 Kings xxi, 17, etc.). How he and his asso- 
ciate in the prophetic office employed themselves dur- 
ing this time we are not told. We may conceive, 
however, that they were much engaged in prayer 
for their country, and in imparting knowledge in the 
schools of the prophets, which were at Jericho and 
Beth-el. Ahab and Jezebel now probably believed 
that their threats had been effectual, and that they 
had seen the last of their tormentor. At any rate, this 
may be inferred from the events of chap. xxi. See 
Aiiab. Foiled in his wish to acquire the ancestral 
plot of ground of Naboth bv the refusal of that sturdy 
peasant to alienate the inheritance of his fathers, Ahab 
and Jezebel proceed to possess themselves of it by 
main force, and by a degree of monstrous injustice 
1 which show's clearly enough how r far the ciders of Jez- 
reel had forgotten the laws of Jehovah, how perfect 
was their submission to the will of their mistress. At 
her orders Naboth is falsely accused of blaspheming 


ELIJAH 


148 


ELIJAH 


God and the king, is 'with his sons (2 Kings ix, 2G; 
comp. Josh, vii, 24) stoned and killed, and his vine- 
yard then — as having belonged to a criminal — becomes 
at once the property of the king. See Naboth. 

Ahab loses no time in entering on his new acquisi- 
tion. Apparently the verv next day after the execu- 
tion he proceeds in his chariot to take possession of the 
coveted vineyard. Behind him — probably in the back 
part of the chariot — ride his two pages Jehu and Bid- 
kar (2 Kings ix, 2G). But the triumph was a short 
one. Elijah had received ail intimation from Jehovah 
of what was taking place, and rapidly as the accusa- 
tion and death of Naboth had been hurried over, he 
was there to meet his ancient enemy, and as an enemy I 
he does meet him — as David went out to meet Goliath 
— on the very scene of his crime ; suddenly, when least 
expected and least wished for, he confronts the miser- 
able king. Then follows the curse, in terms fearful 
to any Oriental — peculiarly terrible to a Jew, and most 
of all significant to a successor of the apostate princes 
of the northern kingdom — “ I will take away thy pos- 
terity ; 1 will cut off from thee even thy very dogs ; I 
will make thy house like that of Jeroboam and Ba- 
asha ; thy blood shall be shed in the same spot where 
the blood of thy victims was shed last night ; thy wife 
and thy children shall be torn in this very garden by 
the wild dogs of the city, or as common carrion de- 
voured by the birds of the sky” — the large vultures 
which in Eastern climes are always wheeling aloft 
under the clear blue sky, and doubtless suggested the 
expression to the prophet. I low tremendous was this 
scene we may gather from the fact that after the lapse 
of at least twenty years Jehu was aide to recall the 
very words of the prophet's burden, to which he and 
his companion had listened as they stood behind their 
master in the chariot. The whole of Elijah’s denunci- 
ation may possibly be recovered by putting together 
the words recalled by Jehu, 2 Kings ix, 20, 30, 7, and 
those given in 1 Kings xxi, 19-25. Fearing that these j 
predictions would prove true, as those about the rain 
and fire had done, Ahab now assumed the manner of a 
penitent; and, though subsequent acts proved the in- 
sincerity of his repentance, yet God rewarded his tem- 
porary abasement by a temporary arrest of judgment. 
We see, however, in after parts of this sacred history, 
how the judgments denounced against him, his aban- 
doned consort, and children took effect to the very let- 
ter. See Jezebel. 

(3.) A space of three or four years now elapses 
(comp. 1 Kings xxii, 1 ; xxii, 51 ; 2 Kings i, 17) be- 
fore we again catch a glimpse of Elijah. The denun- 
ciations uttered in the Vineyard of Naboth have been 
partly fulfilled. Ahab is dead, and his son and suc- 
cessor, Ahaziah, has met with a serious accident, after 
a troubled reign of less than two years (2 Kings i, 1, 
2; 1 Kings xxii, 51). Fearing a fatal result, as if to 
prove liimselfa worthy son of an idolatrous parentage, 
he sends to an oracle or shrine of Baal at the Philistine 
town of Ekron to ascertain the issue of his illness. But 
the oracle is nearer at hand than the distant Ekron. 
An intimation is conveyed to the prophet, probably at 
that time inhabiting one of the recesses of Carmel, 
and, as on the former occasions, he suddenly appears j 
on the path of the messengers, without preface or in- 
quiry utters his message of death, and as rapidly dis- 
appears. The tone of his words is as national on this j 
as on any former occasion, and, as before, they are 
authenticated by the name of Jehovah — “Thus saith 
Jehovah, Is it because there is no God in Israel that 
ve go to inquire of Baalzebub, god of Ekron ?” The 
messengers returned to the king too soon to have ac- 
complished their mission. They were possibly stran- 
gers ; at any rate they were ignorant of the name of 
the man who had thus interrupted their journey. But 
his appearance had fixed itself in their minds, and 
their description at once told Ahaziah, who' must have 
seen the prophet about liis father’s court or have heard I 


him described in the harem, who it was that had thus 
reversed the favorable oracle which he was hoping for 
from Ekron. The “hairy mail” (w“? bra a 

man, a lord of hair), with a belt of rough skin round 
his loins, who came and went in this secret manner, 
and uttered his fierce words in the name of the God 
of Israel, could he no other than the old enemy of Iris 
father and mother. Elijah the Tishbite. But, ill as he 
was, this check only roused the wrath of Ahaziah, and, 
with the spirit of his mother, he at once seized the op- 
portunity of possessing himself of the person of the 
man who had been for so long the evil genius of his 
house. A captain was dispatched, with a party of 
fifty, to take Elijah prisoner. He was sitting on the 
top of “the mount” (*nn), i. e. probably of Carmel. 
The officer approached and addressed the prophet by 
the title which, as before noticed, is most frequently 
applied to him and Elisha — “0 man of God, the king 
hath spoken: come down.” “And Elijah answered 
and said, If I he a man of God, then let fire come down 
from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty! And 
there came down fire from heaven, and consumed 
him and his fifty.” A second party was sent, only 
to meet the same fate. The altered tone of the lead- 
er of a third party, and the assurance of God that his 
servant need not fear, brought Elijah down. But the 
king gained nothing. The message was delivered to 
his face in the same words as it had been to the mes- 
sengers, and Elijah, so we must conclude, was allowed 
to go harmless. This was his last interview with the 
house of Ahab. It was also his last recorded appear- 
ance in person against the Baal-worshippers. It was 
this occasion to which the fiery sons of Zebedee al- 
luded (Luke ix, 51-50) in a proposal that brought out 
from the lips of the Saviour the contrast with his own 
benign mission (Trench, Miracles, cli. iv). 

(4.) It must have been shortly after the death of 
Ahaziah that Elijah made a communication with the 
southern kingdom. It is the only one of which any 
record remains, and its mention is the first and last 
time that the name of the prophet appears in the Books 
of Chronicles. Mainly devoted, as these books are, to 
the affairs of Judah, t his is not surprising. The alli- 
ance between his enemy Ahab and Jehosliaphat can- 
not have been unknown to the prophet, and it must 
have made him regard the proceedings of the kings 
of Judah with more than ordinary interest. When, 
therefore, Jehoram, the son of Jehosliaphat, who had 
married the daughter of Ahab, began “to walk in the 
wavs of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, 
and to do that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah,” 
Elijah sent him a letter (ar.I'a, a writing , different 
from the ordinary word for an epistle, a booh), 

denouncing his evil doings, and predicting his death 
(2 Chron. xxi, 12 15). This letter has been consider- 
ed as a great difficulty, on the ground that Elijah’s 
removal must have taken place before the death of 
Jehoshapliat (from the terms of the mention of Elisha 
in 2 Kings iii, 11), and therefore before the accession 
of Joram to the throne of Judah. But, admitting that 
Elijah had been translated before the expedition of 
Jehosliaphat against Moab, it does not follow that Jo- 
ram was not at that time, and before his father’s death, 
king of Judah, Jehosliaphat occupying himself during 
the last eight or ten years of his life in going about 
the kingdom (2 Chron. xix, 4-31), and in conducting 
some important wars, amongst others that in question 
against Moab, while Joram was concerned with the 
more central affairs of the government (2 Kings iii, 7, 
etc.). That Joram begun to reign during the lifetime 
of his father Jehosliaphat is stated in 2 Kings viii, 10. 
According to one record (2 Kings i, 17), which imme- 
diately precedes the account of Elijah’s last acts on 
earth, Joram was actually on the throne of Judah at 
the time of Elijah’s interview with Ahaziah; and 
though this is modified by the statements of other 


ELIJAH 


149 


ELIJAH 


places (2 Kings iii, 1 ; viii, 16), yet it is not invali- 
dated, and the conclusion is almost inevitable that 
Joram ascended the throne as viceroy or associate 
some years before the death of his father. See Jo- 
ram; Jeiiosiiapiiat; Judaii. The ancient Jewish 
commentators get over the apparent difficulty by sav- 
ing that the letter was written and sent after Elijah’s 
translation. Others believed that it was the produc- 
tion of Elisha, for whose name that of Elijah had been 
substituted by copyists. The first of these requires 
no answer. To the second, the severity of its tone, as 
above noticed, is a sufficient reply. Josephus (Ant. 
ix, 5, 2) says that the letter was sent while Elijah was 
still on earth. (See Lightfoot, Chronicle , etc., “ Je- 
horam.” Other theories will be found in Fabrieius, 
Cod . Pseudepig . p. 1075, and Otho, Lex. Rabb. p. 167). 
In its contents the letter bears a strong resemblance 
to the speeches of Elijah, while in the details of style 
it is very peculiar, and quite different from the nar- 
rative in which it is imbedded (Bertheau, Chronik , ad 
loc.). 

(5.) The prophet’s warfare being now accomplished 
on earth, God, whom he had so long and so faithfully 
served, will translate him in a special manner to heav- 
en. Conscious of this, he determines to spend his last 
moments in imparting divine instruction to, and pro- 
nouncing his last benediction upon, the students in the 
colleges of Bethel and Jericho; accordingly, he made 
a circuit in this region (2 Kings ii, 3, etc.). Tt was 
at Gilgal (q. v.) — probably not the ancient place of 
Joshua and Samuel, but another of the same name still 
surviving on the western edge of the hills of Ephraim 
— that the prophet received the divine intimation that 
his departure was at hand, lie was at the time with 
Elisha, who seems now to have become his constant 
companion. Perhaps his old love of solitude returned 
upon him, perhaps he wished to spare his friend the 
pain of a too sudden parting, or perhaps he desired to 
test the affection of the latter; in either case he endeav- 
ors to persuade Elisha to remain behind while he goes 
on an errand of Jehovah. “ Tarry here, I pray thee, 
for Jehovah hath sent me to Bethel.” But Elisha 
will not so easily give up his master — “As Jehovah 
liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee.” 
They went together to Bethel. The event which was 
about to happen had apparently been communicated 
to the sons of the prophets at Bethel, and they inquire 
if Elisha knew of his impending loss. His answer 
shows how fully he was aware of it. “ Yea,” says 
he, with emphasis, “indeed I do know it (‘^{SC'ES 
hold ye your peace.” But, though impend- 
ing, it w r as not to happen that day. Again Elijah at- 
tempts to escape to Jericho, and again Elisha protests 
that he w r ill not be separated from him. Again, also, 
the sons of the prophets at Jericho make the same un- 
necessary inquiries, and again he replies as emphatic- 
ally as before. Elijah makes a final effort to avoid 
what they both so much dread. “ Tarry here, I pray 
thee, for Jehovah hath sent me to the Jordan.” But 
Elisha is not to be conquered, and the two set off 
across the undulating plain of burning sand to the dis- 
tant river — Elijah in his mantle or cape of sheep-skin, 
Elisha in ordinary clothes (*133, ver. 12). Fifty men 
of the sons of the prophets ascend the abrupt heights 
behind the town — the same to which a late tradition 
would attach the scene of our Lord’s temptation— and 
which command the plain belo\v, to watch with the 
clearness of Eastern vision wffiat happens in the dis- 
tance. Talking as they go, the tw’o reach the river, 
and stand on the shelving bank beside its sw-ift brown 
current. But they are not to stop even here. It is 
as if the aged Gileadite cannot rest till he again sets 
foot on his own side of the river. lie rolls up (cb"<) his 
mantle as into a staff, and with his old energy strikes 
the -waters as Moses had done before him — strikes 


them as if they were an enemy (<“I33) ; and they are 
divided hither and thither, and the}- two go over on 
dry ground. What follows is best told in the simple 
words of the narrative. “And it came to pass when 
they were gone over, that Elijah said to Elisha, ‘Ask 
what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from 
thee.’ And Elisha said, ‘ I pray thee let a double por- 
tion of thy spirit be upon me.’ And he said, ‘Thou 
hast asked a hard thing: if thou see me taken from 
thee, it shall be so unto thee ; but if not, it shall not be 
! so.’ And it came to pass as they still w'ent on and 
talked, that, behold, a chariot of fire and horses of fire, 
and parted them both asunder, and Elijah w ent up by 
the whirlwind into the skies.” (It was not in the 
chariot of fire that he w r ent up into the skies. The 
fire served to part the master from the disciple, to 
show that the severance had arrived, but Elijah was 
taken up by the fierce wind of the tempest, rn^p). 
Well might Elisha cry with bitterness (pp-'X), “ My fa- 
ther, my father.” He had gone who, to the discern- 
ing eye and loving heart of his disciple, had been 
“the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof” for 
so many years ; and Elisha was at last left alone to 
carry on a task to which he must often have looked 
forward, but to which in this moment of grief he may 
well have felt unequal. Tie saw him no more; but 
his mantle had fallen, and this he took up — at once a 
personal relic and a symbol of the double portion of 
the spirit of Elijah w’ith which he was to be clothed. 
Little could he have realized, had it been then present- 
ed to him, that he whose greatest claim to notice w as 
that he had “poured water on the hands of Elijah” 
should hereafter possess an influence which had been 
denied to his master — should, instead of the terror of 
kings and people, be their benefactor, adviser, and 
friend, and that over his death-bed a king of Israel 
r should be found to lament with the same words that 
had just burst from him on the departure of his stern 
and silent master, “ My father, my father, the chariot 
of Israel and the horsemen thereof!” (2 Kings xiii, II). 

4. Traditionary Views and Character. — Elijah and 
Moses are the only men whose history does not termi- 
nate with their departure out of this world. Elijah 
appeared with Moses on Mount TIermon at the time 
of our Lord’s transfiguration, and conversed with him 
respecting the great work of redemption w hich he was 
about to accomplish (Matt, xvii, 1-3). The author of 
the book of Ecclesiasticus (eh. xlviii) justly describes 
him as a prophet “ who stood up as a fire, and whose 
word burned as a lamp.” But, with the exception of 
the eulogiums contained in that catalogue of worthies, 
and 1 Macc. ii, 58, and the passing allusion in Luke 
ix, 54, none of the later references allude to his works 
of destruction or of portent. They all set forth a dif- 
ferent side of his character from that brought out in 
the historical narrative. They speak of his being a 
man of like passions with ourselves (James v, 17) ; of 
his kindness to the widow of Sarepta (Luke iv, 25); 
of his “restoring all things” (Matt, xvii, 11); “turn- 
ing the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the 
disobedient to the wisdom of the just” (Mai. iv, 5, 6; 
Luke i, 17). In the sternness and power of his re- 
proofs, however, he was a striking type of John the 
Baptist, and the latter is therefore prophesied of under 
his name: “ Behold, I will send you Elijah the proph- 
et before the coming of the great and dreadful day of 
the Lord” (Mai. iv, 5, 6). Our Saviour also declares 
that Elijah had already come in spirit, in the person 
of John the Baptist. Many of the Jew’s in our Lord’s 
time believed him to be Elijah, or that the soul of Eli- 
jah had passed into his body (Luke ix, 8). See John 
j the Baptist. How deep w r as the impression which 
he made on the mind of the nation may ba judged 
from the fixed belief which many centuries after pre- 
vailed that Elijah would again appear for the relief 
i and restoration of his country. The prophecy of Mai* 


ELIJAH 


150 


ELIKA 


aclii was possibly at once a cause and an illustration 
of the strength of this belief. Each remarkable per- 
son, as he arrives on the scene, be his habits and char- 
acteristics what they may — the stern John, equally 
with his gentle Successor — is proclaimed to be Elijah 
(^latt. xvi, 14 ; 3 [ark vi, 15; John i, 21). Ilis appear- 
ance in glory on the Mount of Transfiguration does 
not seem to have startled the disciples. They were 
“sore afraid,” but not apparently surprised. On the 
contrary, Peter immediately proposes to erect a tent 
for the prophet whose arrival they had so long been 
expecting. Even the cry of our Lord from the cross, 
containing as it did but a slight resemblance to the 
name of Elijah, immediately suggested him to the by- 
standers. “He calleth for Elijah.” “Let be, let us 
see if Elijah will come to save him.” 

In the Talmud (see the passages cited by Hambur- 
ger, Real-Encykl. s. v. Eliabu) he is recorded as having 
often appeared to the wise and good rabbis — at prayer 
in the wilderness, or»on their journeys — generally in 
the form of an Arabian merchant (Eisenmenger, i, 11 : 
ii, 402-7). At the circumcision of a child a seat was 
always placed for him, that, as the zealous champion 
and messenger of the “covenant” of circumcision (1 
Kings xix, 14 ; Mai. iii, 1), he might watch over the 
due performance of the rite. During certain prayers 
the door of the house was set open that Elijah might 
enter and announce the Messiah (Eisenmenger, i, 685). 
His coining will be three days before that of the Mes- 
siah, and on each of the three he will proclaim, in a 
voice which shall be heard all over the earth, peace, 
happiness, salvation, respectively (Eisenmenger, ii, 
606). So firm was the conviction of his speedy arrival, 
that when goods were found and no owner appeared to 
claim them, the common saying was, “ Put them by till 
Elijah comes” (Liglitfoot, Exercit. Matt, xvii, 10; John 
i, 21). The same customs and expressions are even 
still in use among the stricter Jews of this and other 
countries (see Revue des deux Mamies, xxiv, 131, etc.). 

Elijah has been canonized in both the Greek and 
Latin churches. Among the Greeks Mar Elyas is the 
patron of elevated spots, and many a conspicuous 
summit in Greece is called by his name (Clark, Pelo- 
ponnessus, p. 190). The service for his day — 
fityaXiovvfioc — will be found in the Menaion on July 
20, a date recognised by the Latin Church also. (See 
the ,4 ct(t Sanctorum , July 20). By Cornelius h Lapide 
it is maintained that his ascent happened on that day, 
in the 19th year of Jehoshaphat (lveil, On Kinys , p. 
331). The convent bearing his name, Deir Mar Elyas, 
between Jerusalem and Bethlehem, is well known to 
travellers in the Holy Land. It purports to be situ- 
ated on the spot of his birth, :is ahead}’ observed. 
Other convents bearing bis name once existed in Pal- 
estine : in Jebel Ajlun, the ancient Gilead (Ritter, 
Syrien , p. 1029, 1066, etc.) ; at Ezra, in the Ilanran 
(Burckhardt, Syria, p. 59), and the more famous es- 
tablishment on Carmel. 

It is as connected with the great Order of the bare- 
footed Carmelites that Elijah is celebrated in the Lat- 
in Church. According to the statements of the Brev- 
iary (Off. B. Manus Virginia de Monte CarmeJo, Julii 
16), the connection arose from the dedication to the 
Virgin of a chapel on the spot from which Elijah saw 
the cloud (an accepted type of the Virgin Mary) rise 
out of the sea. But other legends trace the origin of 
the order to the great prophet himself, as the head of 
a society of anchorites inhabiting Carmel; and even 
as himself dedicating the chapel in which he worship- 
ped to the Virgin! (St.John of Jerusalem, as quoted 
by Mislin, Lieux Saints , ii, 49; and the bulls of vari- 
ous popes enumerated by Quaresmins, vol. ii.) These 
things arc matters of controversy in the Roman 
Church, Baronins and others having proved that the 
order was founded in 1181, a- date which js repudiated 
by the Carmelites (see extracts in Fabricius, Codex 
Pseudepiy. p. 1077). 


In the Mohammedan traditions Ilyas is said to have 
drank of the Fountain of Life, “by virtue of which he 
still lives, and will live to the day of judgment.” He 
is by some confounded with St. George, and with the 
mysterious el-Khidr , one of the most remarkable of the 
Moslem saints (see Lane’s A rabian Niyhts, Introd. note 
2; also Selections from the Kuran , p. 221, 222). The 
Persian Softs are said to trace themselves back to Eli- 
jah (Fabricius, p. 1077); and he is even held to have 
been the teacher of Zoroaster (DHerbclot, Bib. Or. s. 

Among other traditions, it must not be omitted that 
the words “Eve hath not seen,” etc., 1 Cor. ii, 9, which 
are without doubt quoted by the apostle from Isaiah 
lxiv, 4, were, according to an ancient belief, from “ the 
Apocalypse, or mysteries of Elijah,” rd 'HAia d—oic- 
yv<pa. The first mention of this appears to be Origen 
{Horn, on Matt, xxvii, 9), and it is noticed with disap- 
proval by Jerome, ad Pammachium (see Fabricius, p. 
1072). 

By Epiphanius, the words “Awake, thou that sleep- 
est,” etc., Eph. v, 14, arc inaccurately alleged to he 
quoted “from Elijah,” i. e. the portion of the O. T. 
containing his history — rrapa nj ’I i\ta (comp. Rom. 
xi, 2). — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. 

5. Literature. — On the general subject, Anon. Lec- 
ture* on Elijah (Lond. 1865) ; Kitto, Daily Bible Illus- 
trations. Solomon and Kings, 45-47tli week. Ephraem 
Syr us, In Eliam (Opp. iii, 210); Basil, In Eliam (Opp. 
p. 61); Ambrose, De Elia (Opp. i, 535); Chrysostom, 
In lleliam (Ojip. Spuria , vi, 70s); Alexander, De Elia 
(Hist. Eccl. iii, 335); Zonch, Life of Eljah (II oris, ii, 
i 219); Robinson, Elijah (Scnpt.Char.Yx)- Krummachcr, 
Elijah the Tishbife (from the Germ., Lond. 1840; X. 
Y. 1847) ; Anderson, Discourses on Elijah (Lond. 1835) ; 

! Evans, Elijah (Script. Eioy. i) ; Williams, Elijah (Chur. 

\ of O. T. ]>. 222); Frisch m nth, Dr Elia ( Crifici Sacri , 
ii) ; Camartns, Elias Thesbites (Par. 1631); Simpson, 
Lectures on Elijdi (Lond. 1836) ; Bcrr, Notice sur E lie 
(Xancy, 1839); Xiemeyer, Ch trakt. v,350; Sclireiber, 
Allyem. Reliyionslehre , i, 194 ; Knobcl, Prophet, ii, 73; 
llodiger, in the Hall. Eneycl. i, 33, p. 320; Menken, 
Gesch. des Elias (in his Schi if lea, ii, 17 sq.) ; WsxW.Con- 
| temptations, bk. xviii, xix ; Stanley, Jewish Church , ii, 
321 sq. On the “ravens,” SchUlcn, I)e Elia corvorum 
I alumno (Wittenb. 1717); id. ib. (Altorf, 1718); Mayor, 
Elias corvorum convictor (Viteb. 1685) ; Van Hardt, 
Corbeaux d'Elle (Helmut. 1709) ; Heumann, Disscrtt. 
sylloy. i, 896; Beykert, De Eliam alentib. (Ar- 

gent. 1774) ; Berg, in the Duisb. Wochenbl. 1768, No. 
52 ; 1769, Xo. 1 ; Gumpacli, A Itfestam. Stud. p. 200 sq. ; 
Deyling, Obs. Sacra, pt. i, Xo. 25. On his “mantle,” 
Brockmann, Comment, philol. (Grvph. 1750). On Eli- 
jah's “ coming,” Hartung, De El. adventu (Jen. 1659) ; 
Jour. Sac. Lit. July, 1852, p. 420 sq. On his proceed- 
ings at Carmel, Klausing, De sacriftcio Eire (Lips. 
1726); Jour. Sac. Lit. Jan. 1867. On his vision at 
lloreb, Verschuir, De appaHtione Elite (Dissert t. phil. 
p. 85 sq.). On his stay at Chorith, at Zarephath, Jour. 
Sac. JAterature , 1860, p. 1 ; Enters, ehvyer Verst orbenen 
(Lips. 1793). On his ascension, Ilcrgutt, De curm Elia 3 
(Wittenb. 1676) ; Muller, Elia ascensio (Lpz. 17 — ); 
Pfalf, I)e raptn Elir (Tub. 1739). On his letter to Jo- 
ram, Pfaflf, De litteris El. ad. Jor. (Tub. 1755); Berg, 
in the Duisb. Wochenbl. 1774, Xo. 5, 6. 

2. (Sept. HAia v. r. *Epicr.) One of the “sons of 
Jercihain,” and heads of Benjamite families resident 
at Jerusalem (1 Chron. viii, 27, where the name is in- 
accurately Anglicized “Eliah”). B.C. post 1612. 

3. (Sept. ’JlAio.) One of the “sons of Elim” (q. 
v.), who divorced his Gentile wife on returning from 
the exile (Ezra x, 21, where the name is likewise 
wrongly Anglicized “Eliah”). B.C. 458. 

Eli'ka [some Etika~\ (lleb. Elika , God is 

his rejecter; Sept. ’E,Wd v. r. ’Ern^d, Vulg. Efica\ 
a llarodite (q. v.), one of David's thirty-seven distin- 


ELILIM 


151 ELIOT 


guished warriors (2 Sam. xxiii, 25). B.C. 1046. His 
name is omitted in the parallel list of 1 Cliron. xi, 27 
(see Kennicott’s conjecture, Dissertation , p. 182). See 
SllAMMOTlI. 

Elilim. See Talmud. 

E'lim (Heb. Eylini, trees [so called from 

their strength; see Oak] ; perh. here palm-trees ; Sept. 
AiXtip), a place mentioned in Exoil. xv, 27 ; Num. 
xxxiii, 9, as the second station where the Israelites 
encamped after crossing the Bed Sea. (See Hnldrich 
or Ulrich, De fontibus in Klim repertis , Brem. 1728). 
See also Beer-Elim. It is distinguished as having 
had “twelve wells (rather “fountains,” ns* 1 ?) of 
water, and threescore and ten palm-trees.” Labordc 
(Geographical Commentary on Exod. xv, 27) supposed 
wady Useit to be Elim, the second of four wadys lying 
between 29° 7' and 29° 20', which descend from the 
range of et-Tih (here nearly parallel with the shore) 
towards the sea. The route of the Israelites, however, 
cannot well be mistaken at this part. Tt evidently 
lay along the desert plain on the eastern shore of the 
Bed Sea. Elim must consequently have been in this 
plain, and not more than about fifty miles from the 
place of passage. With these data, and in a country 
where fountains are of such rare occurrence, it is not 
dilticult to identify Elim. Near the south-eastern end 
of this plain, and not far from the base of Jebel Hum- 
mam, the outpost of the great Sinai mountain-group, 
a charming vale, called wady Ghurundel, intersects the 
line of route. It is the first of the four wadys no- 
ticed above, and is, in fact, the most noted valley of 
that region, and the only one in the vicinity contain- 
ing water (Robinson, Researches , i, 100, 105). In the 
dry season it contains no stream, but in the rainy sea- 
son it becomes the channel of a broad and powerful 
mountain current, being bounded by high ridges, and 
extending far into the interior. It has no soil, but 
drifting sand, which has left but one of the “ -wells” 
remaining, the others anciently existing being doubt- 
less filled up. This principal fountain springs out at 
the foot of a sandstone rock, forming a pool of spark- 
ling water, and sending out a tiny but perennial 
stream. This, in fact, is one of the chief watering- 
places in the peninsula of Sinai (Bartlett, Forty Days 
in the Desert , p. 36 sq.). There are no palm-trees at 
present here, but the place is fringed with trees and 
shrubbery, stunted palms, with their hairy trunks and 
dishevelled branches; tamarisks, their feathery leaves 
dripping with what the Arabs call manna; and the 
acacia, with its gray foliage and white blossoms (Stan- 
ley, Palestine, p. 08). These supply the only verdure, 
which, however, in contrast with the naked desert, is 
quite refreshing (Olin’s Travels , i, 3G2). Well might 
such a wady, in the midst of a bare and treeless waste, 
be called emphatically Elim, u the trees.” Lepsius 
takes another view, that Ghurundel is Mara, by others 
identified with Ho warn (2^- hours N.W. from Gliurun- 
del, and reached by the Israelites, therefore, before it), 
and that Elim is to be found in the last of the four 
above named, wady Shubeikeh ( Travels , Berlin, 1845, 
p. 27 sq.). See Exode. 

Elim'elech (lleb. Klime'lek, God is his 

king; Sept. 'EXtptXtic ; Josephus, ’EAt/ifXtyoc, Ant. v, 9, 
1), a man of the tribe of Judah, and of the family of the 
llezronites and kinsman of Boaz. who dwelt in Bethle- 
hem-Ephratah in the days of the judges. B.C. cir. 
13G8. In consequence of a great dearth in the land 
he -went with his wife Naomi, and his two sons, Mahlon 
and Chilion, to dwell in Moab, where he and his sons 
died without posterity (Ruth i, 2, 3; ii, 1,3; iv, 3, 9). 
See Rutii. 

Elios'liai (Heb. Elyomtiy , a contracted 

form of the name Elihoenai ), the name of several men. 

1. (Sept vai v. r. ’EXlju'gp, Vulg. Eliocnai.) 


Fourth son of Becher, son of Benjamin (1 Chron. vii, 
8). B.C. post 1856. 

2. (Sept. ’EXiojvai v. l*. ’EAiwiop, Vulg. Eliocnai.') 
A chief of the posterity of Simeon (1 Chron. iv, 3G). 
B.C. post 1G18. 

3. (1 Chron. xxvi, 3.) See Elihoenai. 

4. (Sept. ’EXuorp'Qi v. r. ’EXiwwif, Vulg. Elioenai.) 
A priest of the sons of Pashur, who had married a for- 
eign wife after the return from Babylon, but who, at 
Ezra’s instigation, put her away with the children 
born of her, and offered a ram for a trespass offering 
(Ezra x, 22). B.C. 458. He is perhaps the same 
mentioned in Nell, xii, 41, as one of the priests who 
accompanied Nebemiah with trumpets at the dedica- 
tion of the wall of Jerusalem. B.C. 44G. 

5. (Sept. 'EXuoijvai v. r. ’EXiwm, Vulg. Elioenai .) 
An Israelite of the sons of Zattu, w r ho likewise divorced 
his Gentile wife after the exile (Ezra x, 27). B.C. 458. 

6. (Sept. ’EXuo)]vai, v. r. ’EXuovvai and 'EAi.S’fudu, 
Vulg. Elioenai.) Eldest son of Meariali, son of She- 
maiah, of the descendants of Zernhbabel ; his family 
are the latest mentioned in the Old Test. (1 Chron. iii, 
23, 24). B.C. ante 280. lie appears to be the same 
with Esli, of the maternal ancestry of Christ (Luke 
iii, 25). (See Strong’s Harmony and Expos, of the Gosp. 
p. 1G.) According to the present Heb. text lie is in 
the seventh generation from Zerubbabel, or about con- 
temporary with Alexander tlie Great ; but lord Hervey 
thinks that Shemaiali is identical with Shimei (ver. 
19), Zerubbabel’s brother ( Geneal . of our Lord, p. 107- 
109, and ch. vii). 

Elionas'us (’EAiwpcffor, doubtless a Grnecized form 
of Elioenai), a high-priest of the Jew's, who succeeded 
Matthias, son of Ananus (A.D. 42), and w*as the next 
year succeeded by Simon Cantheras (Josephus, Ant. 
xix, 8, 1). See Higii-prikst. 

Elio'nas, the name of tw r o men in the Apocrypha. 

1. ('EAtwpflt; v. r. ’EAiwi'fltc, Vulg. omits.) One of 
the sons of “Fhaisur,” who divorced his Gentile wife 
after the exile (1 Esdras ix, 22); evidently the Elio- 
enai (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra x, 22). 

2. (’EXiwPrtf, Vulg. Noneas.) One of the sons of 
“Annas,” who did the same (1 Esd. ix, 32) ; doubtless 
the Eliezer (q. v.) of the lleb. text (Ezra x, 31). 

Eliot, Andrew, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born in Boston Dec. 25, 1719 (O. S.), and grad- 
uated at Harvard College in 1737. In 1742 he w’as 
ordained pastor (as colleague with Mr. Webb) of the 
New' North Church in Boston, in which service he re- 
mained until his death. In 1757 he w-as made D.D. 
by the University of Edinburgh. In 1773 he w r as 
elected president of Harvard College, but declined to 
leave his pastoral w'ork. lie died Sept. 13, 1778. Be- 
sides occasional sermons, he published a volume of 
Discourses (1774). — Sprague, Annals, i, 417. 

Eliot, John, styled “the apostle of the Indians,” 
was born in the county of Essex, England, in 1G04, 
and studied at the University of Cambridge. Emigra- 
ting to New England in 1G31, be joined t lie Church in 
Boston. He was settled over the Church in Boxbury 
Nov. 5, 1G32. Here he studied the Indian language, 
w'ith the view of converting the natives to Christian- 
ity. “ The first Indian Church, established by the la- 
bors of Protestants in America, was formed at Natick 
in 1GG0, after the manner of the Congregational church- 
es in New England. Those who wished to he organ- 
ized into a Christian body w'erc strictly examined a3 
to their faitli and experience by a number of the neigh- 
boring ministers, and Mr. Eliot afterwards adminis- 
tered to them baptism and the Lord’s Supper. Other 
Indian churches w ere planted in various parts of Mas- 
sachusetts, and he frequently visited them ; but his 
pastoral care w'as more particularly over that which 
he first established, lie made every exertion to pro- 
mote the welfare of the Indian tribes; lie stimulated 
many servants of Jesus to engage in the missionary 


ELIPANDUS 


152 


ELIPHELET 


work ; and, although he mourned over the stupidity 
of many who preferred darkness to light, yet he lived 
to see twenty-four of the copper-colored aborigines fel- 
low-preachers of the precious Gospel of Christ. In 
1661 he published the New Testament in the Indian | 
language, and in a few years the whole Bible, and 
several other books best adapted for the instruction 
of the natives. When he reached the age of fourscore 
years he offered to give up his salary, and desired to 
be liberated from the labors of his office as a teacher 
of the Church at Uoxburv. It was with joy that he 
received Mr. Walter as his colleague in 1688. When 
he was bending under his infirmities, and could no 
longer visit the Indians, he persuaded a number of 
families to send their negro servants to him once a 
week, that he might instruct them in the truths of 
God. lie died May 20, 1690, saying that all his la- 
bors were poor and small, and exhorting those who 
surrounded his bed to pray, llis last words were, 

* Welcome joy ’ ” (Allen). In 1649 Mr. Eliot published 
The f forious Progress of the Gospel among the Indians ; 
in 1653, Tears of Repentance ; in 1655, A further Mani- 
festation of the Progress of the Gospel among the In- 
dians; and in 1670, A brief Narrative of the Progress 
of the Gospel. Baxter says, in one of his letters, 
“There was no man ou earth whom I honored above 
him.” A handsome memorial to the “Apostle of the 
Indians, and the pastor for fifty-eight years of the 
first Church in Iioxbury,” has been erected in the For- 
est Hills Cemetery, Koxburv. — Life and Death of John 
Eliot , by Cotton Mather (ifiOl) ; Mather’s Magnolia , 
iit, 270; Francis, Life of John Eliot (Edinb. 1828); 
Sprague, Annals, i, 18; Allen, American Biography. 

Elipandus, archbishop of Toledo in the 8th cen- 
tury. He shared the opinions of Felix, bishop of Ur- 
gel, with regard to the person of Christ, viz. that, with 
respect to his human nature, he was only the adoptive 
Sou of God, thus giving rise to the sect of Adoption- 
ists. Elipandus disseminated his views in Spain, 
France, and Germany. Adosinde, queen of Gallicia, 
induced bishop Etherius of Osina arul the priest Bea- 
tus to write against him. They published against 
him two books, the originals of which are said to be 
still extant in Toledo, Elipandus replied bv several 
letters, but he was condemned at the council which 
Panlinus, patriarch of Aqrileja, convened at Ciudad de 
Friuli in 791. In the following year the doctrines of 
Elipandus and Felix were again condemned at a synod 
which Charlemagne held at Itatisbon. Pope Adrian 
confirmed the sentence, to which Felix submitted ; but 
Elipandus, and several other bishops of Spain, per- 
sisted in their views, and wrote against Felix. This 
letter was refuted, and condemned by Adrian in a 
council held in Italy, and in the Council of Frankfort 
in 794. Charlemagne himself wrote a letter (still ex- 
tant) to Elipandus urging him to submit ; blit the let- 
ter seems to have had little effect, for shortly before 
his death (in 799) Elipandus wrote a reply maintaining 
bis views. — Iloefer, Xouv. Bing. Gener. xv, 832 ; Nean- 
der, Ch. I list . iii, 156-158; Moslieim, Ch. Hist, bk. iii, 
e. viii, pt. ii, cb. v, § 3. See Adoptianism. * 

El'iphal (lleb. EliphnV , God is his judge ; 

Sept. ’EXtfyadX v. r. , F\0rtV,Vulg. Eliphal), son of Ur 
(q. v.), and one of David’s famous guard (1 Chron. 
xi, 35). B.C. 1916. In the parallel passage (2 Sam. 
xxiii, 34) he seems to lie called “Elipiielet, the son 
of Ahasbai (q. v.), the son of the Maachathite but 
the names are here greatly con fused. See David. 

Eliph'alat (’E\f0n\rtV,Vulg. EVphalach ), one of 
the sons of “Asom,” who divorced his Gentile wife 
after the exile (1 Esd. ix, 33); evidently the Elipii- 
elet (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra x, 33). 

Eliph'alet, a less correct mode of Anglicizing (2 
Sam. v, 16; 1 Chron. xiv, 7) tlie name Elipiielet (q. 
v.). It also occurs in the Apocrypha ('EXi^aXf-) as 
the name of one of the sons of Adonicam, who returned 


from the exile (1 Esdr. viii, 39) ; the Elipiielet of 
the Heb. text (Ezra viii, 13). 

El'iphaz (Hebrew Eliphaz ', God is his 

strength ; Sept. ’E XapciZ, but in Gen. 'EXi<pag,X r u lg. Eli- 
phaz), the name of two men. 

1. The leading one of the “three friends” who came 
to condole with Job in his affliction (Job iv, 1), and 
who took part in that remarkable discussion which oc- 
cupies the book of Job. B.C. cir. 2200. He is called 
“the Temanite;” lienee it is naturally inferred that 
he was of the region substantially known as Tern an 
(q. v.), in Idumaea; and as Eliphaz, the son of Esau, 
had a son called Teman, from whom the place took its 
name, many have concluded that this Eliphaz was a 
descendant of the other Eliphaz. Some, indeed, even 
go so far as to suppose that the Eliphaz of Job was no 
other than the son of Esau. This view is of course 
confined to those who refer the age of Job to the time 
of these patriarchs. But it is doubtful whether even 
this gives a date sufficiently early. See Job. 

Eliphaz is the first of the friends to take up the de- 
bate, in replay to Job’s passionate complaints. He ap- 
pears to have been the oldest of the speakers, from 
which circumstance, or from natural disposition, his 
language is more mild and sedate than that of the oth- 
ers (see Eichler, l)e visione Eliphad [iv, 12-31], Lpz. 
1781). He begins his orations with delicacy, and con- 
ducts his part of the controversy with considerable ad- 
dress (chap, iv, v, xv, xxii). On him bills the main 
burden of the argument, that God’s retribution in this 
world is perfect and certain, and that consequently 
suffering must be a proof of previous sin. llis words 
are distinguished from those of Bilclad and Zophar b} 7 
greater calmness and elaboration, and, in the first in- 
stance, by greater gentleness towards Job, although 
he ventures afterwards, apparently from conjecture, 
to impute to him special sins. The great truth brought 
out bv him is the unapproachable majesty and purity 
of God (iv, 12-21 ; xv, 12-16). But still, with the oth- 
er two friends, he is condemned for having, in defence 
of God’s providence, spoken of him “the thing that 
was not right,” i. e. by refusing to recognise the facts 
of human life, and by contenting himself with an im- 
perfect retribution as worthy to set forth the righteous- 
ness of God. On sacrifice and the intercession of Job 
ell three are pardoned. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See. 
Job, Book of. 

2. The son of Esau by one of his first wives, Adali, 
and father of several Edomitish tribes (Gen. xxxvi, 4, 
10, 11, 16 ; 1 Chron. i, 35, 3G). B.C. post 1963. 

Eliph'eleh (Heb. in the prolonged form Eliphele' - 
hu , •lln'bs^bx, God will distinguish him; Sept. EXuprt- 
\a and ’EXapaXov v. r. ’E Xiipevd and ’EXapaXatag ; 
Yulg. Eliphalu ), a Merarite Levite; one of the gate- 
keepers (C"*)rVr, A.V. porters”) appointed by David 
to play on the harp “ on the Slieminitli,” on the occa- 
sion of bringing up the ark to the city of David (1 
Chron. xv, 18, 21). B.C. 1043. 

Eliph'elet (Hebrew Elipiielet , in pause 

EUpha'let, lA-UPX, God is his deliverance ), the name 
of several men. 

1. (Sept. ’E XapaXcir v. r. ’AXupaXeSr and ’A XapaXtr, 
Yulg. E/ipheleth.) One of David’s distinguished war- 
riors, styled “the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Ma- 
achathite” (2 Sam. xxiii, 34); but, by some error and 
abbreviation, Eliphal (q. v.), the son of Ur, [and] 
Hcpher, the Mecherathite,” in the parallel passage (1 
Chron. xi, 35, 36.) 

2. (Sept. E\ (0«Xtr v. r. ’EXi^riX^, Yulg. Elipha - 
leth.) The third of the nine sons of David, born at 
Jerusalem, exclusive of those by Bathsheba ^1 Chron. 
iii, 6; xiv, 5, in which latter passage the name is writ- 
ten Elpalet). B.C. post 104-1. 

3. (Sept. * EXapaXir v. r. ’EXityaXa, Yulg. Elipkelet.) 
The ninth of the same (1 Chron. iii, 8 ; xiv, 7 ; 2 Sam. 


ELISABETH 


153 


ELISHA 


v, 1G, in which two latter passages the name is An- I 
glieized “ Eliphalet”). it is believed that there were ! 
not two sons of this name, but that, like Nogah, one 
is merely a transcriber’s repetition. The two are cer- 
tainly omitted in Samuel, but, on the other hand, they I 
are inserted in two separate lists in Chronicles, and in 
both cases the number of sons is summed up at the ! 
close of the list. Josephus mentions but one Eliphale I 
(’E\i<pci\t) 1 as the last of David’s eleven sons, and 
states that the last two were born of concubines {Ant. 
vii, 3, 3). See David. 

4. (Sept. ’EAt^aAsr, Vulg. EliphaletA) The third of 
*he three sons of Eshek, of the posterity of Benjamin, 
and a descendant of king Saul through Jonathan (1 
Cliron. viii, 30). B.C. ante 53G. 

5. (Sept. ’EXityaXaS v. r. ’EXi^aXdr, Vulg. Eliphe- 
let .) One of the sons of Adonikani, who returned from 
Babylon with his two brothers and GO males (Ezra viii, 
13). ‘ B.C. 459. 

6. (Sept. ’EXicpciXir, Vulg. Eliplieletli.) An Israelite 
of the lineage of Ilashum, who divorced his Gentile 
wife after the exile (Ezra x, 33). B.C. 458. 

Elis'abeth (’E/Wa/Scr), wife of Zacharias or Zach- 
ariah, and mother of John the Baptist (Luke i, 5). 
She was a descendant of Aaron, or of the race of the 
priests ,* and of her and her husband this exalted char- 
acter is given by the evangelist: “They were both 
righteous before God, walking in all the command- 
ments and ordinances of the Lord blameless” (Luke i, 
7, 13). Thjy had remained childless till the decline 
of life, when an angel foretold to her husband Zaeha- 
riah the birth of John, and Zacliariah returning home, i 
Elisabeth conceived. During five months she con- 
cealed the favor God had granted her ; but the an- 
gel Gabriel discovered to the Virgin Mary this mirac- 
ulous conception, , as an assurance of the birth of the 
Messiah by herself. See Annunciation. Mary vis- i 
itcd Elisabeth, and when she saluted her, Elisabeth 
felt the quickening of her unborn babe. When her 
child was circumcised she named him John, accord- 
ing to previous instructions from her husband (Luke 
i, 39-63). B.C. 7. See Zaciiakias. 

The name in this precise shape does not occur in the 
Old Testament, where the names of few females are 
given. But it is a Hebrew name, the same in fact as 
Elisiieba (q v.). It is perhaps etymologically con- 
nected with Elissa or Elisa, the Phoenician name of 
queen Dido (Virgil, En . iv, 335), whence the modern 
Eliza , Elizabeth. 

Elisas'us (’EWrnog or ’E/Wo-ofor;), the Gnccized 
form of the name of Elisiia (q. v.) in the N. T. (Luke 
iv, 27) and Apocrypha (’EAurojf , Ecclus. xl viii, 12), as 
well as Josephus {Ant. viii, 13, 7 etc.). 

Eli'sha (lleb. Elisha, for God 

is his salvation; Sept. 'E/Wais or ‘EXiovTai I, Josephus 
and N. T. ’EAtwxnioeATdg. Elisaws , A.V. in N. T. and 
Apoer. “ Elisieus”), the son of Shaphat of Abel-meho- 
lah (1 Kings xix, 16-19), who became the attendant 
and disciple of Elijah (Josephus, Ant. viii, 13, 7), and 
his successor as prophet in the kingdom of Israel. See 
Elijah. 

1. History. — The earliest mention of Elisha’s name 
is in the command to Elijah in the cave at Horeb (1 
Kings xix, 1G, 17). But our first introduction to the 
future prophet is in the fields of his native place (B.C. 
cir. 900). Abel-meholah — the “ meadow of the dance” 
— was probably in the valley of the Jordan, and, as its 
name would seem to indicate, in a moist or watered sit- 
uation. See Abel. Elijah, on his way from Sinai to 
Damascus by the Jordan valley, lights on his successor 
engaged in the labors of the field, twelve yoke before 
him, i. e. probably eleven other ploughs preceding him 
Mong the same line (see Thomson, Land and Book, i, 
208). To cross to him, to throw over his shoulders the 
rough mantle — a token at once of investiture with the 
prophet’s office, and of adoption as a son — was to Eli- 


jah but the work of ah instant, and the prophet strode 
on as if what he had done were nothing — “ Go back 
again, for what have I done unto thee?” So sudden 
and weighty a call, involving the relinquishment of a 
position so substantial, and family ties so dear, might 
well have caused hesitation. But the parley was only 
momentary. To use a figure which we may almost 
believe to have been suggested by this very occur- 
rence, Elisha was not a man who, having put his hand 
to the plough, w T as likely to look back ; he delayed 
merely to give the farewell kiss to his father and moth- 
er, and preside at a parting feast with his people, and 
then followed the great prophet ou his northward road 
to become to him what in the earlier times of his na- 
tion Joshua had been to Moses. Of the nature of this 
connection we know hardly anything. “Elisha the 
son of Shaphat, who poured water on the hands of Eli- 
jah,” is all that is told ns. The characters of the two 
men were thoroughly dissimilar, but how far the. lion- 
like daring and courage of the one had infused itself 
into the other, we can judge from the few occasions on 
which it blazed forth, while every line of the narrative 
of Elijah’s last hours on earth hears evidence how deep 
was the personal affection which the stern, rough, re- 
served master had engendered in his gentle and pliant 
disciple. 

Seven or eight years must have passed between the 
call of Elisha and the removal of his master, and dur- 
ing the whole of that time we hear nothing of him. 
But when that period had elapsed he reappears, to be- 
come the most prominent figure in the history of his 
country during the rest of his long life. 

Being anxious, after his remarkable appointment on 
receiving the robe as a symbol of inheriting the pro- 
phetic spirit of his ascended master, to enter at once 
upon the duties of his sacred office, Elisha determined 
to visit the schools of the prophets which were on the 
other side of the Jordan. Accordingly, returning to 
that river, and wishing that sensible evidence should 
be afforded, both to himself and others, of the spirit 
and power of his departed master vesting upon him, he 
struck its waters with Elijah’s mantle, when they part- 
ed asunder and opened a way for him to pass over on 
dry land. Witnessing this miraculous transaction, the 
fifty sons of the prophets, who had seen from the oppo- 
site side Elijah’s ascension, and who were awaiting 
Elisha’s return, now, with becoming reverence, ac- 
knowledged him their spiritual head. These young 
prophets are not more full of reverence for Elisha than 
of zeal for Elijah : they saw r the latter carried up in 
the air— they knew' that this w'as not the first time of 
his miraculous removal. Imagining it therefore pos- 
sible that the Spirit of God had cast him on some re- 
mote mountain or valley, they ask permission to go 
and seek him. Elisha, though fully aw r are that he was 
received up into glory, but yet fearful lest it should be 
conceived that he, from any unworthy motives, was 
not anxious to have him brought back, yielded to their 
request. The unavailing search confirmed Elisha’6 
fame. (B.C. cir. 892.) 

There are several considerations from which the in- 
completeness of the records of Elisha’s life may he in- 
ferred: (cl) The absence of marks by w hich to deter- 
mine the dates of the various occurrences. The “ king 
of Israel” is continually mentioned, but we are left to 
infer what king is intended (2 Kings v, 5, G, 7, &c . ; vi, 
8, 9, 21, 26 ; vii, 2 ; viii, 3, 5, G, etc.). This is the case 
even in the story of the important events of Naaman’s 
cure, and the capture of the Syrian host at Dothan. 
The only exceptions are iii, 12 (comp. 6), and the nar- 
rative of the visit of Jehoash (xiii, IE etc.), but this 
latter story is itself a proof of the disarrangement of 
these records, occurring as it does after the mention of 
the death of Jehoash (ver. 13), and being followed by 
an account of occurrences in the reign of Jehoaliaz his 
fiither (ver. 22, 23). (5.) The absence of chronological 
sequence in the narratives. The story of the Shunam- 


ELISHA 


154 


ELISHA 


mite embraces a lengthened period, from before the 
birth of the child till he was some years old. Gehazi’s 
familiar communication with the king, and therefore the 
story which precedes it (viii, 1, 2), must have occurred 
before he was struck with leprosy, though placed long 
after the relation of that event (v, 27). (c). The dif- 

ferent stories are not connected by the form of words 
usually employed in the consecutive narrative of these 
books. (See Keil, Comment, on Kings, p. 348, where 
other indications will be found.) The call of Elisha 
seems to have taken place about four years before the 
death of Ahab. lie died in the reign of Joash, the 
grandson of Jehu, B.C. cir. 835. lienee his public ca- 
reer embraces a period of not less than G5 years, for 
certainly 55 of which he held the office of “prophet in 
Israel” (2 Kings v, 8). 

(1.) After the departure of his master, Elisha re- 
turned to dwell (-7') at Jericho (2 Kings ii, 18). The 
town had lately been rebuilt (1 Kings xvi, 31), and was 
the residence of a body of the “sons of the prophets” 
(2 Kings ii, 5, 15). Among the most prominent fea- 
tures of that place are still the two perennial springs 
which, rising at the base of the steep hills of Q.uaran- 
tania behind the town, send their streams across the 
plain towards the Jordan, scattering, even at the hot- 
test season, the richest and most grateful vegetation 
over what would otherwise be a bare tract of sandy 
soil. At the time in question, part, at least, of this 
charm was wanting. One of the springs was noxious 
- — had some properties which rendered it unfit for 
drinking, and also prejudicial to the land (ii, 19, 
lad, A. V. “ naught”). At the request of the men of 
Jericho, Elisha remedied this evil. lie took salt in a 
new vessel, and cast it into the water at its source in 
the name of Jehovah. From the time of Josephus 
{War, iv, 8, 3) to the present (Saewulf, Mod. Trav. p. 
17), the tradition of the cure lias been attached to the 
large spring NAV. of the present town, and which now 
bears, probably in reference to some later event, the 
name of A in es- Sultan (Uobinson, Researches , ii, 383 
sq.). See Jericho. 

(2.) )Ve next meet with Elisha at Ilethel, in the 
heart of the country, on his way from Jericho to Blount 
Carmel (2 Kings ii, 23). 1 1 is last visit had been made 

in company with Elijah on their road down to the Jor- 
dan (ii, 2). Sons of the prophets resided there, but 
still it vi* as the seat of the calf-worship, and therefore 
a prophet of Jehovah might expect to meet with in- 
sult, especially if not so well known and so formidable 
as Elijah. The road to the town winds up the defile 
of the wady Suweinit, under the hill which still bears 
what in all probability are the ruins of Ai, and which, 
even now retaining some trees, was at that date shaded 
by a forest, thick, and the haunt of savage animals 
(comp. Amos v, 19). See Bethel. Here the boys 
of the town were clustered, waiting, as they still wiiit 
at the entrance of the villages of Palestine, for the 
chance p.isser-by. In the scanty locks of Elisha, how 
were they to recognise the successor of the prophet, 
with whose shaggy hair streaming over his shoulders 
they were all familiar? So, with the license of the 
Eastern children, they scoff at the new-comer as he 
walks by — “ Go up (nb^*, hardly ascend, as if alluding 
to Elijah, hut /him on out of the way), bald-head (nip. 
devoid of hair on the lack of the head, as opposed to 
nily, bald on the forehead?) !” For once Elisha as- 
sumed the sternness of his master. He turned upon 
them and cursed them in the name of Jehovah. There 
was in their expressions an admixture of rudeness, in- 
fidelity, and impiety. But the inhabitants of Bethel 
were to know, from bitter experience, that to dishonor 
God’s prophets was to dishonor himself, for Elisha was 
at the moment inspired to pronounce thp judgment 
which at once took effect. God, who never wants for 
instruments to accomplish his purposes, caused two j 


she-bcars to emerge from the neighboring wood and 
punish the young delinquents. It is not said that they 
were actually killed (the expression is to rend, 

which is peculiarly applicable to the claws of the bear). 
This fate may indeed have befallen some of the party, 
but it is by no means probable in regard to the greater 
number. 

Ehrcnberg says that the hear is seen only on one 
part of the summit of Lebanon, called Machine!, the 
other peak, Jehel Sanin, being, strangely enough, free 
from these animals. The Syrian hear is more of a 
frugiverous habit than the brown bear ( U rsns arctos ), 
but when pressed with hunger it is known to attack 
men and animals ; it is very fond of a kind of chick- 
pea ( Cicer arietinus ), fields of which are often laid 
waste by its devastations. Most recent writers are 
silent respecting any species of bear in Syria, such as 
Shaw, Volnev, Ilasselquist, Burckhardt. and Schulz. 
Seetzen, however, notices a report of the existence of a 
bear in the province of TIasbeiva, on Mount Ilermon. 
Klacder supposed this bear must be tbe Ursus arctos, 
for which opinion, however, he seems to have had no 
authority ; and a recent writer, Dr. Thomson ( Land and 
Bonk, ii, 373), says that the Syrian bear is still found 
on tbe higher mountains of this country, and that the 
inhabitants of Ilermon stand in great fear of him. 
Hemprich and Ehrcnberg ( Symbolce Phys. pt. i) in- 
form us that during the summer months these hears 
keep to the snowy parts of Lebanon, but descend in 
winter to the villages and gardens ; it is probable, also, 
that at this period in former days they extended their 
visits to other parts of Palestine; for, though this spe- 
cies was in ancient times far more numerous than it is 
now, yet the snowy summits of Lebanon were proba- 
bly always the summer home of these animals. It is 
not improbable, therefore, that the attack upon the 
forty-two children who mocked Elisha took place some 
time in the winter, when these animals inhabited the 
low lands of Palestine. See Bear. 

(3.) Elisha extricates Jehoram, king of Israel, and 
the kings of Judah and Edom, from their difficulty in 
the campaign against Moab, arising from want of wa- 
ter (iii, 4-27). The revolt of Moab occurred very short- 
ly after the death of Ahab (iii, 5; comp, i, 1), and the 
campaign followed immediately — “the same day” (iii, 
G; A. V. “time”). The prophet was with the arm)'; 
according to Josephus („1«L ix, 3, 1) he “happened to 
be in a tent outside t lie camp of Israel.” Joram be 
refuses to hear, except out of respect for Jehoshaphat, 
the servant of the true God ; but a minstrel is brought, 
and at the sound of music the hand of Jehovah comes 
upon him, and he predicts a fall of rain, and advises a 
mode of procedure in connection therewith which re- 
sults in tbe complete discomfiture of Moab. This in- 
cident probably took place at the S.E. end of the Dead 
Sea. See Jehoram. 

(4.) The widow of one of the sons of the prophets — 
according to Josephus, of Obadiah, the steward of Ahab 
— is in debt, and her two sons arc about to he taken 
from her and sold as slaves by her creditors, as l>y an 
extension of the law (Exod. xxi, 7, and Lev. xxv, 39), 
and by virtue of another (Exod. xxii, 3), they had the 
power to do ; and against this hard-hearted act she im- 
plores the prophet’s assistance. God will not, vKthout 
a cause, depart from the general laws of his adminis- 
tration: Elisha therefore inquires how far she herself 
had the power to avert the threatened calamity. She 
replies that the only thing of which she was possessed 
was one pot of oil. This Elislia causes (in his absence, 
iv, 5) to multiply (after the example of Elijah at Zar- 
ephatli), until the widow has filled with it all the ves- 
sels which she could borrow, and thus procured the 
means of payment (2 Kings iv, 1-7). No place or date 
of the miracle is mentioned. 

(5.) The next occurrence is at Sbnnem and Mount 
Carmel (iv, 8-37). The account consists of two parts. 


ELISHA 


155 


"ELISHA 


[(?.] Elisha, probably on his way between Carmel and | 
the Jordan valley, calls accidentally at Shunem, now So- 
lam, a village on the southern slopes of Jebel ed-Duhy, 
the little Ilermon of modern travellers. Here he is j 
hospitably entertained by a woman of substance, ap- 
parently at first ignorant of the character of her guest. 
Wishing that he should take up, more than occasion- 
ally, his abode under her roof, she proposed to her hus- 
band to construct for him a chamber which he might 
have for his own accommodation. The husband at 
once consented, and, the apartment being fitted up in 
a way that showed their proper conception of his feel- 
ing, the prophet becomes its occupant. Grateful for 
such disinterested kindness, Elisha delicately inquired 
of her if he could prefer her interest before the king or 
the captain of his host ; for he must have had consid- 
erable influence at court, from the part he had taken 
in the late war. But the good woman declined the 
prophet’s offer by declaring that she would rather 
“dwell among her own people,” and in the condition 
of life to which she had been accustomed. Still, to 
crown her domestic happiness, she lacked one thing 
— she had no child ; and now, by reasou of the age of 
her husband, she could not expect such a blessing. 
In answer, however, to the prayer of the prophet, and 
as a recompense for her care of him, she was saved from 
that childless condition which was esteemed so great a 
calamity by every Jewish wife, and permitted to “ em- 
brace a son” (2 Kings, iv, 8-17). 

[6.] After an interval of several years, the boy is 
old enough to accompany his father to the corn-field, 
where the harvest is proceeding. The fierce rays of 
the morning sun are too powerful for him, and (affect- 
ed apparently by a sunstroke) he is carried home to 
his mother only to die at noon. She says nothing of 
their loss to her husband, but depositing her child on 
the bed of the man of God, at once starts in quest of 
him to Mount Carmel. The distance is fifteen or six- 
teen miles — at least four hours' ride ; blit she is mount- 
ed on the best ass ("prXil, the she-ass, such being 
noted for excellence), and she does not slacken rein. 
Elisha is on one of the heights of Carmel commanding 
the road to Shunem, and from his position opposite to 
her ("133*3) he recognises in the distance the figure of 
the regular attendant at the services which he holds 
here at “ new moon and sabbath” (comp. ver. 23). lie 
sends Gehazi down to meet her, and inquire the reason 
of her unexpected visit. But her distress is for the 
ear of the master, and not of the servant, and she press- 
es on till she comes up to the place where Elisha him- 
self is stationed ("fin, the mount , ver. 27, i. e. Carmel, 
ver. 25) ; then throwing herself down in her emotion, 
she clasps him by the feet. Misinterpreting this ac- 
tion, or perhaps with an ascetic feeling of the unholi- 
ness of a woman, Gehazi attempts to thrust her away. 
But the prophet is too profound a student of human 
nature to allow this — “ Let her alone, for her soul is 
vexed within her, and Jehovah hath hid it from me, 
and hath not told me.” “And she said” — with the enig- 
matical form of Oriental speech — “ did I desire a son 
of my lord? Did I nut say, do not deceive me?” No 
explanation is needed to tell Elisha the exact state of 
the case. The heat of the season will allow of no de- 
lay in taking the necessary steps, and Gehazi is at 
once dispatched to run back to Shunem with the ut- 
most speed. lie takes the prophet’s walking-staff in 
his hand which he is to lay on the face of the child. 
The mother and Elisha follow in haste. Before they 
reach the village the sun of that long, anxious sum- 
mer afternoon must have set. Gehazi meets them on 
the road, but he has no reassuring report to give ; 
the placing of the staff on the face of the dead boy had 
called forth no sign of life. Then Elisha enters the 
house, goes up to his own chamber, “and he shut the 
door on them twain, and prayed unto Jehovah.” It 
was what Elijah had done on a similar occasion, and 


in this and his subsequent proceedings Elisha was 
probably following a method which he had heard of 
from his master. The child is restored to life, the 
mother is called in, and again falls at the feet of the 
prophet, though with what different emotions — “and 
she took up her son and went out” (2 Kings iv, 18-37). 
There is nothing in the narrative to fix its date with 
reference to other events. We here first encounter 
Gehazi, the “ servant” ("£'5, lad) of the man of God. 
It must of course have occurred before the events of 
viii, 1-G, and therefore before the cure of Naaman, 
when Gehazi became a leper. 

(G.) The scene now changes to Gilgal, apparently 
at a time when Elisha was residing there (iv, 38-41). 
The sons of the prophets are sitting round him. It is 
a time of famine, possibly the same seven years’ scar- 
city which is mentioned in viii, 1, 2, and during which 
the Sliunammite woman of the preceding story migrated 
to the Philistine country. The food of the party must 
consist of any herbs that can be found. The great 
caldron is put on at the command of Elisha, and one 
of the company brings his blanket (*73£ ; not “la])” 
as in A. V.) full of such wild vegetables as he has col- 
lected, and empties it into the pottage. But no sooner 
have they begun their meal than the taste betrays the 
presence of some noxious herb [see Gourd], and they 
cry out, “There is death in the pot, oh man of God!” 
In this case the cure was effected by meal which Elisha 
cast into the stew in the caldron (1 Kings iv, 28 41). 

(7.) The next miracle in all probability belongs to 
the same time, and also to the same place as the pre- 
ceding. A man from Baal-shalisha (q. v.) brings the 
man of God a present of the first-fruits, which under 
the law (Num. xviii, 8, 12 ; Deut. xviii, 3, 4) were the 
perquisite of the ministers of the sanctuary — 20 loaves 
of the new barley, and some delicacy, the exact nature 
of which is disputed, but which seems mest likely to 
have been roasted ears of corn not fully ripe 
perhaps ellipticallv for ; comp. Lev. xxiii, 

4), brought with care in a sack or bag (“,“^£:£, Sept. 
7n)na). This moderate provision is bv the word of 
Jehovah rendered more than sufficient for a hundred 
men (2 Kings iv, 42-44). This is one of the instances 
in which Elisha is the first to anticipate in some meas- 
ure the miracles of Christ. 

(8.) The simple records of these domestic incidents 
amongst the sons of the prophets are now interrupted 
by an occurrence of a more important character (2 
Kings v, 1-27). The chief captain of the army of 
Syria, to whom his country was indebted for some sig- 
nal success (the tradition of the Jews is that it was 
Naaman who killed Ahab, Midrash Teliillim , p. 29 5, on 
Psa. lxxviii), was afflicted with leprosy, and that in its 
most malignant form, the white variety (ver. 27). In 
Israel this would have disqualified him from all em- 
ployment and all intercourse (2 Kings xv, 5 ; 2 C'hron. 
xxv i, 20. 21). But in Syria no such practice appears 
to have prevailed; Naaman was still a “great man 
with his master,” “a man of countenance.” One of 
the members of his establishment is an Israclitisli girl, 
kidnapped by the marauders (E‘"Vi'"if) of Syria in one 
of their forays over the border, and she brings into 
that Syrian household the fame of the name and skill 
of Elisha. “ The prophet in Samaria,” who had raised 
the dead, would, if brought into the presence of (“:£5) 
the patient, have no difficulty in curing even this dread- 
ful leprosy. The news is communicated by Naaman 
himself (XZ’I, not “ one told") to the king. Benhadad 
had yet to learn the position and character of Elisha. 
He writes to the king of Israel a letter very character- 
istic of a military prince, and curiously recalling words 
uttered by another military man in reference to the 
cure of his sick servant many centuries later — “ I say 
to this one, go, and he goeth. and to my servant, do 


ELISHA 


150 


ELISHA 


this, and he doeth it.” “And now” — so ran Bcnha- 
dad’s letter after the usual complimentary introduction 
had probably opened the communication — “ and now, 
when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have sent 
Naaman, my slave, to thee, that thou mayest recover 
him of his leprosy.” With this letter, and with a pres- 
ent, in which the rich fabrics i. q. a dress of 

ceremony) for which Damascus has always been in 
modern times so famous form a conspicuous feature, 
and with a full retinue of attendants (13, 15, 23), Naa- 
man piocceds to Samaria. The king of Israel — his 
name is not given, but it was probably Joram — is dis- 
mayed at the communication. He has but one idea, 
doubtless the result of too frequent experience — “Con- 
sider how this man secketh a quarrel against me!” 
The occurrence soon reaches the ears of the prophet, 
and with a certain dignity lie “ sends” to the king — 
“ Let him come to me, and he shall know that there is 
a prophet in Israel.” To the house of Elisha Naaman 
goes with his whole cavalcade, the “ horses and char- 
iot” of the Syrian general fixing themselves particu- 
larly in the mind of the chronicler. Elisha still keeps 
in the background, and while Naaman stands at the 
doorway, contents himself with sending out a messen- 
ger witli the simple direction to bathe seven times in 
the Jordan. The independent behavior of the prophet, 
and the simplicity of the prescription — not only devoid 
of any ceremonial, but absolutely insulting to the na- 
tive of a city which boasted, as it still boasts, of the 
finest water-supply of any city of the East, all com- 
bined to enrage Naaman. His slaves, however, knew 
how to deal with the quick but not ungenerous temper 
of their master, and the result is that he goes down to 
the Jordan and dips himself seven times, “ and his flesh 
came again like the flesh of a little child, and he was 
clean.” His first business after his cure is to thank his 
benefactor. lie returns with his whole train (PtlJITa 
i. e. “ host” or “ camp”), and this time he will not be 
denied the presence of Elisha, but, making his way in, 
and standing before him, he gratefully acknowledges 
the power of the God of Israel, and entreats him to ac- 
cept the present which he had brought from Damas- 
cus. But Elisha is firm, and refuses the offer, though 
repeated with the strongest adjuration. Naaman, hav- 
ing adopted Jehovah as his God, begs to be allowed to 
take away some of the earth of his favored country, of 
which to make an altar. He then consults Elisha on 
a difficult}" which he foresees. How is he, a servant 
of Jehovah, to act when lie accompanies the king to the 
temple of the Syrian god Bimmon ? lie must bow be- 
fore the god ; will Jehovah pardon this disloyalty ? 
Elisha’s answer is “ Go in peace,” and with this fare- 
well the caravan moves off. But Gchazi, the attend- 
ant of Elisha, cannot allow" such treasures thus to es- 
cape him. “As Jehovah livetli” — an expression, in the 
lips of this vulgar Israelite, exactly equivalent to the 
oft-repeated Wallah — “by God” — of the modern Arabs, 

“ 1 will run after this Syrian and take somewhat of 
him.” So he frames a story by which the generous 
Naaman is made to send back with him to Elisha’s 
house a considerable present in money and clothes, 
lie then went in and stood before his master as if noth- 
ing had happened. But the prophet was not to be so de- 
ceived. His heart had gone after his servant through 
the whole transaction, even to its minutest details, and 
he visits Gehazi with the tremendous punishment of 
the leprosy, from which lie has just relieved Naaman. 
The date of the transaction must have boon at least j 
seven years after the raising of the Shunammite’s son. ' 
This is evident from a comparison of viii, 4 with 1, 2, 
3. Gehazi’s familiar conversation with the king must 
have taken plaee before lie w r as a leper. See Naaman. 

(0.) We now return to the sons of tlie prophets, but 
this time the scene appears to bcjcdianged, and is prob- 
ably at Jericho, and during the residence of Elisha 
there. "Whether from the increase of the scholars con - 1 


sequent on the estimation in wdiich the master was 
held, or from some other cause, their habitation had 
become too small — “The place in w T hich w-e sit before 
thee is too narrow" for ns.” They will therefore move 
to the close neighborhood of the Jordan, and cutting 
down beams — each man one, as with curious minute- 
ness the text relates — make there a new" dwelling- 
place. Why Jordan was selected is not apparent. 
Possibly for its distance from the distractions of Jeri- 
cho — possibly the spot was once sanctified by the cross- 
ing of Israel with the ark, or of Elijah, only a few 
years before. Urged by his disciples, the man of God 
consents to accompany them. When they reach the 
Jordan, descending to the level of the stream, they 
commence felling the trees of the dense belt 

of wood in immediate contact with the water. See 
Jordan. As one of them was cutting at a tree over- 
hanging the stream, the iron of his axe (a borrowed 
tool) flew off and sank into the water. His cry soon 
brought the man of God to his aid. The stream of the 
Jordan is deep up to the very bank, especially when 
the water is so low as to leave the w r ood dr}", and is, 
moreover, so turbid that search would be useless. But 
the place at which the lost axe entered the water is 
show'll to Elisha ; he lops oft' (-!£]?) a stick and casts 
it into the stream, and the iron appears on the surface, 
and is recovered by its possessor (2 Kings vi, 1-7). 

(10.) Elisha is now- residing at Dothan, half way on 
the road between Samaria and dezrecl. The incur- 
sions of the Syrian marauding bands (comp, ver.2) still 
continue, but apparently with greater boldness, and 
pushed even into places which the king of Israel is ac- 
customed to frequent (comp. Josephus, A nt. ix, 4, 3). 
But their manoeuvres are not hid from the man of God, 
and by his warnings he saves the king “not once nor 
tw r ?ec.” So baffled w'ere the Syrians by these repeat- 
ed failures as to make their king suspect treachery in 
his ow’n camp. But the true explanation is given by 
one of bis ow’n people — possibly one of those who had 
w itnessed the cure w rought on Naaman, and could con- 
ceive no power too great to ascribe to so gifted a per- 
! son: “Elisha, the prophet in Israel, telleth the king 
of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bed- 
chamber.” So powerful a magician must be seized 
without delay, and a strong party with chariots is dis- 
patched to effect his capture. They inarch by niglit, 
and before morning take up their station round the 
base of the eminence on which the ruins of Dothan 
still stand. Elisha’s servant — not Gehazi, but appar- 
ently a nev T -comer, unacquainted wdtli the powers of 
his master — is the first to discover the danger. But 
Elisha remains unmoved by liis fears; and at his re- 
quest the eyes of the youth are opened to behold the 
spiritual guards which are protecting them, horses and 
chariots of fire filling the whole of the mountain. But 
this is not enough. Elisha again prays to Jehovah, 
and the whole of the Syrian warriors are struck blind. 
He then descends, and offers to lead them to the per- 
son and the place which they seek. He conducts them 
to Samaria. There, at the prayer of the prophet, their 
si Ait is restored, and they find themselves, not in a re- 
tired country village, but in the midst of the capital of 
Israel, and in the presence of the king and his troops. 
His enemies thus completely in his grasp, the king of 
Israel is eager to destroy them. “ Shall I slay ? shall 
1 slay, my father?” But the end of Elisha has been 
answ'ercd when he lias shown the Syrians hotf futile 
| are all their attempts against his superior power. 

| “ Thou slialt not slay. Thou mayest slay those whom 
thou hast taken captive in lawful fight, but not these 
[literally, “Are these w-hat thou hast captured with 
thy sword and bow:, that thou art for smiting them ?”] : 
feed them, and send them away to their master.” Af- 
ter such a repulse it is not surprising that the maraud- 
ing forays of the Syrian troops ceased (2 Kings vi, 8- 
23). * See Beniiadad. 


ELISHA 


157 


ELISHA 


(11.) But the king of Syria could not rest under | 
such dishonor. He abandons his marauding system, 
and gathers a regular army, with which lie lays siege ■ 
to Samaria. The awful extremities to which the in- 
habitants of the place were driven need not here be re- 
called. Boused by an encounter with an incident j 
more ghastly than all, and which remained without j 
parallel in Jewish records till the unspeakable horrors , 
of the last days of Jerusalem (Josephus, \Var y v, 10, 3 ; 
13, 7, etc.), the king vents his wrath on the prophet, 1 
probably as having, by his share in the last transac- j 
tion (so" Josephus, Ant. ix, 4, 4), or in some other way 
not recorded, provoked the invasion ; possibly actuated 
by the spite with which a weak bad man in difficulty 
often regards one better and stronger than himself. 
The king’s name is not stated in the Bible, but there 
can be no doubt that Josephus is correct in giving it as 
Joram ; and in keeping with this is his employment of 
the same oath which his mother Jezebel used on an oc- j 
casion not dissimilar (1 Kings xix, 2), “ God do so to 
me and more also, if the head of Elisha, the son of Sha- 
pliat, shall stand on him this day.” No sooner is the 
word out of the king's mouth than his emissary starts I 
to execute the sentence. Elisha is in his house, and 
round him are seated the elders of Samaria, doubtless 
receiving some word of comfort or guidance in their 
sore calamity. He receives a miraculous intimation 
of the danger. Ere the messenger could reach the 
house, he said to his companions, “ See how this son 
of a murderer (alluding to Ahab in the case of Naboth) 
hath sent to take away my head ! Shut the door, and 
keep him from entering : even now I hear the sound 
of his master’s feet behind him (hastening to stay the 
result of his rash exclamation!” interprets Josephus, 
Ant. ix, 4, 4). As lie says the words the messenger ar- 
rives at the door, followed immediately, as the prophet 
had predicted, by the king and by one of his officers, 
the lord on whose hand he leaned. What follows is 
very graphic. The king’s hereditary love of Baal 
burst forth, and he erics, “ This evil is from Jehovah.” 
the ancient enemy of my house: “ why should I wait 
for Jehovah any longer?” To this Elisha answers: 
“ Hear the word of Jehovah” — he who has sent fam- 
ine can also send plenty — u to-morrow at this time 
shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel, and 
two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of this 
very city.” “ This is folly,” says the oflieer ; “even 
if Jehovah were to make windows in heaven and pour 
down the provisions, it could not be.” “ It ean, it 
shall,” replies Elisha ; “and you, yon shall see it all, 
hut shall not live even to taste it” (2 Kings vi, 24-vii, 
2). The next night God caused the Syrians to hear 
the noise of chariots and horses ; and conceiving that 
Jehoram had hired against them the kings of the Hit- 
tites and the king of Egypt, they fled from before the 
walls of Samaria — leaving their tents filled with gold 
and provisions — in the utmost panie and confusion. 
In this way did God, according to the word of Elisha, 
miraculously deliver the inhabitants of Samaria from 
a deadly enemy without, and from sore famine within, 
its walls : another prediction moreover was accom- 
plished ; for the distrustful lord was trampled to death 
by the famished people in rushing through the gate of 
the city to the forsaken tents of the Syrians (2 Kings 
vii). See Samaria. 

(12.) We now go back several years to an incident 
connected with the lady of Shunem, at a period ante- 
cedent to the cure of Naaman and the transfer of his 
leprosy to Gehazi (v, 1, 27). Elisha had been made 
aware of a famine which Jehovah was about to bring 
upon the land for seven years ; and he had warned his 
friend the Shunammite of it that she might provide 
for her safety. Accordingly she had left Shunem with 
her family, and had taken refuge in the land of the 
Philistines, that is, in the rieli corn-growing plain on 
the sea-coast of Judah, where, secure from want, she re- 
mained during the dearth. At the end of the seven 


years she returned to her native place, to find that dur- 
ing her absence her house with the field-land attached 
to it — the corn-fields of the former story — had been ap- 
propriated by some other person. In Eastern coun- 
tries kings are (or were) accessible to the complaints 
of the meanest of their subjects to a degree inconceiv- 
able to the inhabitants of the Western world. To the 
king, therefore, the Shunammite had recourse, as the 
widow of Tekoali on a former occasion to king David 
(2 Sam. xiv, 4). Thus occurred one of those rare co- 
incidences which it is impossible not to ascribe to some- 
thing more than mere chance. At the very moment of 
the entrance of the woman and her son — clamoring, as 
Oriental suppliants alone clamor (p^lS), for her home 
and her land — the king was listening to a recital by 
Gehazi of “all the great things which Elisha had 
done,” the crowning feat of all being that which he 
was then actually relating — the restoration to life of 
the boy of Shunem. The woman was instantly recog- 
nised by Gehazi. “My lord, (> king, this is the wom- 
an and this is her son whom Elisha restored to life.” 
From her own mouth the king hears the repetition of 
the wonderful tale, and, whether from regard to Elisha, 
or struck by the extraordinary coincidence, orders her 
land to be restored, with the value of all its produce 
during her absence (2 Kings viii, 1-G). 

(13.) Hitherto we have met with the prophet only 
in liis own country. We now find him at Damascus. 
(The traditional spot of his residence on this occasion 
is shown in the synagogue at Jobcir [?Hobali], a vil- 
lage about two miles E. of Damascus. 7 he same vil- 
lage, if not the same building, also contains the cave 
in whieh Elijah was fed by ravens and the tomb of 
Gehazi [Stanley, Palest, p. 412 ; Quaresmius, ii, 881— 
“ vana et menclacia //c&raorwm”].) lie is there to 
carry out the command given to Elijah on Horeb to 
“ anoint Hazael to be king over Syria.” At the time 
of his arrival Benliadad was prostrate with his last ill- 
ness. This marks the time of the visit as after the 
siege of Samaria, which was conducted by Benliadad 
in person (eomp. vi, 24). The memory of the cure of 
Naaman, and of the subsequent disinterestedness of 
i the prophet, were no doubt still fresh in Damascus ; 
and no sooner does he enter the eity than the intelli- 
[ gence is carried to the king — “ The man of God is come 
hither.” The king’s first desire is naturally to ascer- 
tain his own fate; and llazael, who appears to have 
succeeded Naaman, is commissioned to be the bearer 
, of a present to the prophet, and to ask the question on 
the part of his master, “ Shall I recover of this dis- 
ease?” The present is one of royal dimensions — a 
caravan (of 40 camels, according to Josephus, A nt. ix, 
4, G) laden with the riches and luxuries which that 
wealthy city alone could furnish. The terms of Ha- 
zacl’s address show the respect in which the prophet 
was held even in this foreign and hostile country. 
They are identical with those in which Naaman was 
addressed by his slaves, and in which the king of Is- 
rael in a moment of the deepest gratitude and rever- 
ence had addressed Elisha himself. “ Thy son Benha- 
dad hath sent me to thee, saying, ‘Shall I recover of 
this disease ?’ ” The reply, probably originally ambig- 
uous, is doubly uncertain in the present doubtful state 
of the Hebrew text, but the general conclusion was un- 
mistakable: “Jehovah hath showed me that he shall 
surely. die.” But this was not all that had been re- 
vealed to the prophet. If Benliadad died, who would 
he king in his stead but the man who now stood before 
him ? The prospect was one which drew forth the 
tears of the man of God. This man was no rash and 
imprudent leader, who could be baffled and deceived 
as Benliadad had so often been. Behind that “ stead- 
fast,” impenetrable countenance was a steady courage 
and a persistent resolution, in which Elisha could not 
but foresee the greatest danger to his country. Here 
was a man who, give him but the power, would “op- 


ELISHA 


15a 


ELISHA 


press” and “cut Israel short,” would “thresh Gilead 
with threshing instruments of iron,” and “make them 
like the dust hv threshing” as no former king of Syria 
had done, and that at a time when the prophet would 
he no longer alive to warn and to advise. At Hazael’s 
request Elisha confesses the reason of his tears. But 


the prospect is one which lias no sorrow for Ilazael. victories. See Jehoash. 


the arrow of deliverance from Syria/’ is discharged. 
This done, the king takes up the bundle of arrows, 
and, at the commaud of Elisha, beats them on the 
ground. But he does it with no energy, and the suc- 
cesses of Israel, which might have been so prolonged 
as completely to destroy the foe, are limited to three 


Flow such a career presented itself to him may be in- 
ferred from his answer. 11 is only doubt is the possi- 
bility of such good fortune for one so mean. u But 
what is thy slave, dog that he is (-£“ij thy ser- 

vant , the dog, i. e. insignificant object), that he should 
do this great thing?” To this Elisha replies, “Je- 
hovah hath showed me that thou wilt be king over 
Sjwia.” Returning to the king, Ilazael tells him only 
half the dark saving of the man of God — “ lie told me 
that thou shouldest surely recover.” But that was 
the last day of Benhadad's life. What were the cir- 
cumstances attending his death, whether in the bath 
as has recently been suggested (Ewald, Isr. Gesch. iii, 
523 note), is not clear, except that lie seems to have 
been smothered. The general inference, in accord- 
ance with the account of Josephus, is that Hazael him- 


(1G.) The power of the prophet, however, docs not 
terminate with his death. Even in the tomb (Jose- 
phus embellishes the account by stating that he had 
a magnificent funeral, Ant. ix, 8, G) he restores the 
dead to life. Moub had recovered from the tremen- 
dous reverse inflicted on her by the three kings at the 
opening of Elisha’s career (2 Kings iii), and her ma- 
rauding bands had again begun the work of depreda- 
tion which Syria so long pursued (2 Kings v, 2; vi, 
23). The text perhaps infers that the spring — that is, 
when the early crops were ripening — was the usual 
period for these attacks ; but, be this as it may, on the 
present occasion they invaded the land “at the coining 
in of the year.” A funeral was going on in the cem- 
etery which contained the sepulchre of Elisha. See- 
ing the Moabitish spoilers in the distance, the friends 


self was the murderer, but the statement in the text the dead man hastened to conceal his corpse in the 
does not necessarily bear that interpretation (np^l nearcs t hiding-place. They chose — whether by design 


may well be rendered “ one took the [not a] 
hair-cloth,” i. e. perhaps divan-mattress) ; and, indeed, 
from the mention of Hazael’s name at the end of the 
passage, the conclusion is rather the reverse (2 Kings 
viii, 7-15). See IIazael. 

(11.) Two of the injunctions laid on Elijah had now 
been carried out, but the third still remained. Ila- 
zael had begun his attacks on Israel by an attempt to 
recover the stronghold of Bamotli-Gilead (viii, 28), or 
Earn all, among the mountains on the east of Jordan. 
But the fortress was held by the kings of Israel and 
Judah in alliance, and, though the Syrians had wound- 


or by accident is not said — the tomb of the prophet, 
and, as the body was pushed (Tjb^) into the cell which 
formed the receptacle for the corpse in Jewish tombs, 
it came in contact with his bones. The mere touch 
of those hallowed remains was enough to effect that 
which in his lifetime had cost Elisha both prayers and 
exertions — the man “revived and stood up on his 
feet.” Other miracles of the prophet foreshadow, as 
we have remarked, the acts of power and goodness of 
our Saviour, but this may rather be said to recal the 
marvels of a later period — of the early ages of the 
Christian Church. It is in the story of Gervasius 


ed the king of Israel, they had not succeeded in cap- : and Protasius (Augustine’s Confessions , ix, § 1G), and 


taring the place (viii, 28; ix, 15). One of the cap- 
tains of the Israelitish army in the garrison was Jehu, 
the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi. At the 
time his name was mentioned to Elijah on Iloreb he 
must have been but a youth ; now he is one of the 
boldest and best known of all the warriors of Israel. 


not in any occurrence in the life of our Lord or of the 
apostles, that we must look for a parallel to the last- 
recorded miracle of Elislia (2 Kings xiii, 20-22). 

2. Characteristics and Traditional Yieu-s. — In almost 
every respect Elisha presents the most complete con- 
trast to Elijah. The copious collection of his sayings 


He had seen the great prophet once, when with his ^ and doings which are preserved in the 3d to the Oth 
companion Bidkar he attended Ahab to take possession chapter of the 2d book of Kings, though in many ro- 
ot the field of Naboth, and the scene of that day, and spects deficient in that remarkable vividness which we 

have noted in the records of Elijah, is yet full of testi- 
monies to this contrast. Elijah was a tiue Bedouin 
child of the desert. The clefts of the Clieritli, the 
wild shrubs of the desert, the cave at Iloreb, the top 
of Carmel, were his haunts and his resting-places. If 
he enters a city, it is only to deliver his message and 
be gone. Elisha, on the other hand, is a civilized- 
man, an inhabitant of cities. He passed from the 


the words of the curse then pronounced, no subsequent 
adventure had been able to efface (ix, 25, 3G). The 
time had now come for the fulfilment of that curse by 
his being anointed king over Israel. Elisha’s person- 
al share in the transaction was confined to giving di- 
rections to one of the sons of the prophets, and the 
detailed narrative may be found in 2 Kings ix (see 
Maurice, Prophets and Kings, semi. ix). See Jehu. 


(15.) Beyond this we have no record of Elisha’s translation of his master to dwell at Jericho (2 Kings 
having taken any part in the revolution of Jehu, or ii, 18) ; from thence he “returned” to Samaria (ver. 
the events which followed it. lie does not again ap- ! 25). At Samaria (v, 3; vi, 32; comp. ver. 24) and at 
pear till we find him on his death-bed in bis own house Dothan (vi, 14) he seems regularly to have resided in 
(xiii, 14 lit). Joasli, the grandson of Jehu, is now ! a house (v, 0, 24; vi, 32; xiii, 17) with “doors” and 
king, and he has come to weep over the approaching “windows,” in familiar intercourse with the sons of 
departure of the great and good prophet. His words the prophets, with the elders (vi, 32), with the lady of 
are the same as those of Elisha when Elijah was taken Shnnem, the general of Damascus, the king of Israel, 
away — “My father! my father! the chariot of Israel , Over the king and the “captain of the host” he seems 
and the horsemen thereof!” But it is not a time for to have possessed some speeial influence, capable of 


weeping. One thought fills the mind of both king and 
prophet. Syria is the fierce enemy who is graduallv 
destroying the country, and against Syria one final 
effort must be made before the aid of Elisha becomes 
unobtainable. What was the exact significance of the 
ceremonial employed, our ignorance of Jewish customs 
does not permit us to know, but it was evidently sym- 
bolic. The window is opened towards the hated coun- 
try, the bow i* pointed in thejsnme direction, and the 
prophet laying his hands on the string as if to convey 
force to the shot, “the arrow of Jehovah's deliverance, . 


being turned to material advantage if desired (2 King 
iv, 13). The touches of the narrative are very slight, 
but we can gather that his dress was the ordinary gar- 
ment of an Israelite, the beged. probably similar in form 
to the long abbeyeh of the modern Syrians (2 Kings ii, 
12), that his hair was worn short (if not naturally de- 
ficient) behind, in contrast with the long locks of Eli- 
jah (ii, 23), and that he used a walking-staff (iv, 20) of 
the kind ordinarily carried by grave or aged citizens 
(Zech. viii, 4). What use he made of the rough man- 
tle of Elijah, which came into his possession at thair 


ELISHA 


159 


ELISHA 


parting, does not anywhere appear, but there is no 1 
hint of his ever having worn it. Elijah was emphat- 
ically a destroyer. His mission was to slay and to 
demolish whatever opposed or interfered with the 
rights of Jehovah, the Lord of Hosts. The nation had 
adopted a god of power and force, and they were shown 
that he was feebleness itself compared with the God 
whom they had forsaken. But after Elijah the de- 
stroyer comes Elisha the healer. “ There shall not be 
dew nor rain these years” is the earliest proclamation 
of the one. “ There shall not be from thence any 
deartli or barren land” is the first miracle of the other. 
What may have been the disposition of Elijah when 
not engaged in the actual service of his mission we 
have unhappily no means of knowing. Like most 
men of strong, stern character, he probably had affec- 
tions not less strong. But it is impossible to conceive 
that he was accustomed to the practice of that benefi- 
cence which is so strikingly characteristic of Elisha, 
and which comes out at almost every step of his -ca- 
reer. Still more impossible is it to conceive him ex- 
ercising the tolerance towards the person and the re- 
ligion of foreigners for which Elisha is remarkable — 
in communication, for example, with Naaman or Ha> 
zael ; in the one case calming with a word of peace 
the scruples of the new proselyte, anxious to reconcile 
the due homage to Rimmon with his allegiance to Je- 
hovah ; in the other case contemplating with tears, 
but still with tears only, the evil which the future 
king of Syria was to bring upon his country. That 
Baal-worship was prevalent in Israel even after the 
efforts of Elijah, and that Samaria was its chief seat, 
we have the evidence of the narrative of Jehu to as- 
sure us (2 Kings x, 18-27), but his mission is not so 
direct^ to rebuke and punish it. In the eulogium of 
Elisha contained in the catalogue of worthies of Ec- 
clus. xlviii, 12-14 — the only later mention of him save 
the passing allusion of Luke iv, 27— his special char- 
acter is more strongly brought out than in the earlier 
narrative : “ Whilst he lived lie was not moved b} r the 
presence of any prince, neither could any bring him 
into subjection. No word could overcome him, and 
after his death bis body prophesied. He did wonders 
in his life, and at his death were his works marvel- 
lous.” 

This thaumaturgic view of Elisha is indeed the true 
key to his Biblical history, for lie evidently appears in 
these records chiefly as a worker of prodigies, a pre- 
dictor of future events, a revealer of secrets, and things 
happening out of sight or at a distance. The working 
of wonders seems to be a natural accompaniment of 
false religions, and we may be sure that the Baal-wor- 
ship of Samaria and Jezreel was not free from such 
arts. The story of 1 Kings xxii shows that even be- 
fore Elisha’s time the prophets had come to be looked 
upon as diviners, and were consulted, not on questions 
of truth and justice, nor even as depositaries of the pur- 
poses and will of the Deity, but as able to foretell bow 
an adventure or a project was likely to turn out, wheth- 
er it might be embarked in without personal danger or 
loss. But if this degradation is inherent in false wor- 
ship, it is no less a principle in true religion to adjust 
itself to a state of things already existing, and out of 
the forms of the alien or the false to produce the pow- 
er of the true. Thus Elisha appears to have met the 
habits of his fellow-countrymen, lie wrought, with- 
out reward and without ceremonial, the cures and res- 
torations for which the soothsayers of Baalzebub at 
Ekron were consulted in vain : he warned his sovereign 
of dangers from the Syrians which the whole four hun- 
dred of his prophets had not succeeded in predicting to 
Ahab, and thus in one sense we may say that no less 
signally than Elijah he vanquished the false gods on 
their own field. 

The frequency and unparalleled nature of his mir- 
acles also furnish perhaps the best explanation of Eli- 
jah’s behest of “a double portion of his own spirit” 


upon Elisha (2 Kings, ii, 9). The ordinary meaning 
put upon this phrase (see, for example, J. H. Newman, 
Subj. of the Day, p. 191) is that Elisha possessed double 
the power of Elijah. This, though sanctioned by the 
renderings of the Vulgate and Luther, and adopted by 
a long series of commentators from Ephraem Svrus to 
Krummacher, would appear not to be the real force of 
the words. The expression is “'S, literally “a 

mouth of two” — a double mouthful — the same phrase 
employed in Dent, xxi, 17 to denote the amount of a 
father’s goods which were the right and token of a 
lirst-Liorn son. Thus the gift of the “ double portion” 
of Elijah’s spirit was but the legitimate conclusion of 
the act of adoption which began with the casting of the 
mantle at Abel-meholah years before. It was this which 
Elisha sought — not a gift of the spirit of prophecy twice 
as large as Elijah himself possessed. This carries im- 
probability on the very face of it ; for with what propri- 
ety could a man be asked to leave as an inheritance to 
another double of what be himself possessed ? Nor did 
Elisha get any such superlative endowment ; his posi- 
tion as a prophet was altogether of a dependent and 
secondar} r nature as compared with Elijah’s ; and the 
attempts that have been made to invert the relation of 
the one to the other, proceed upon arbitrary and super- 
ficial considerations. Not less arbitrary is the view of 
Ewald, that the request of Elisha must be understood 
as indicating a wish for two thirds only of Elijah’s 
spirit (Cesch. iii, 507) — a view that requires no refuta- 
tion. The proper explanation is, that Elisha here re- 
garded Elijah as the head of a great spiritual house- 
hold, which included himself as the first-born and all 
who had since been added to the fraternit} 7 under the 
name of “ the soils of the prophets ;” and what he now 
sought was, that he might be constituted Elijah’s heir 
in the spiritual vineyard, by getting the first-born’s 
double portion, and therewith authority to continue the 
work. For a curious calculation by Peter Damianus 
that Elijah performed twelve miracles and Elislia twen- 
ty-four, see the Acta Sanctorum , July 20. 

Elisha is canonized in the Greek Church ; his day is 
the 14th of June. Under that date, his life, and a collec- 
tion of the few r traditions concerning him — few indeed 
when compared with those of Elijah — may be found in 
the Acta Sanctorum. In the time of Jerome a “mau- 
soleum” containing his remains was shown at Samaria 
(Reland, Palccsf. p. 980). L T nder Julian the bones of 
Elisha were taken from their receptacle and burnt. 
But, notwithstanding this, his relics are heard of sub- 
sequently, and the church of St. Apollinaris at Raven- 
na still boasts of possessing his head. The Carmelites 
have a special service in honor of Elisha. — Kitto, s. v.; 
Smith, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. 

3. Literature . — On the subject generally, Kitto, 
Daily Bible Illustrations , “Solomon and Kings,” 47th 
to 49th week; Niemeycr, Cknrakt. v, 364 sq. ; Blunt, 
History of Elisha (new ed. Loud. 1862) ; Krummacher, 
Elisha (from the German, Loud. 1838); Anon. Short 
Meditations on Elisha. (Lond. 1848); Cassel, Der Pro- 
phet Elisa (Berlin, 1860) ; Stanley, Jeicish Church , ii, 
353 sq. On the fate of the Bethelite youths, Miehae- 
lis, De Elisfeo vindicato (Frcf. a. 0. 1734). On the mir- 
acle of the axe-helve, Freise, Ferrum natans (Jen. 
1G89). On the Shunammitess, Thomson, Land and 
Book , ii, 177 sq. 

Elisha (in Armenian Eyhischc), one of the most 
celebrated Armenian historians, was born at the begin- 
ning of the 5th centmy. lie was a pupil of the patri- 
arch St.Sahag (Isaac) and of St.Mesrob, by whom lie 
was sent to the schools of Athens, Alexandria, and 
Constantinople. Subsequently lie became almoner 
and secretary of prince Vartan, who, in the religious 
war of the Armenians against the Persians, was chief 
commander of the Armenian army. He died in 480. 
Probably he is the same person with bishop Elisha 
of Amathunik, who in 449 was present at the Syn- 


ELISHAII 


1(30 


ELIUD 


od of Artishat, at which the bishops of Armenia re- 
plied to the summons of the Persian ruler Yesdegerd 
II to adopt the faith of Zoroaster. This reply, to 
which was added a brief apology of the Christian re- 
ligion, led to the religious war which is described by 
Elisha. So great was the reputation of this work that 
its author received the surname ol* the Armenian Xen- 
ophon. It begins with the accession to the throne of 
Yesdegerd in 430, describes in full the schemes of per- 
secution devised by the Persian king against the Ar- 
menians, the resistance of the Armenian bishops and 
princes, the “holy alliance” concluded by the latter, 
and its operation and kite until the unfortunate battle 
at the river Technmt, in the province of Artas, in 451, 
in consequence of which the leaders of the holy alli- 
ance and most of the bishops were captured and taken 
to Persia. The first edition of this work was printed 
at Constantinople in 17G4 (new ed. 1833) ; other edi- 
tions appeared at Nakhidchevan (17G4), Calcutta (181G), 
and Venice (1823 and 1838). The last Venice edition, 
which is the best, contains also commentaries to the 
books of Joshua and Judges, a recommendation of mo- 
nastic life, an exposition of the Lord’s Prayer, several 
homilies, and a work on the ecclesiastical canons. An 
English translation of the work was published by Fr. 
Neumann {The History of Vartan and of the Battle of 
the Armenians , containing an Account of the religious 
liars between the Persians and Armenians , by Eliscens, 
bishop of the Annidunians, etc., Load. 1830). It has 
also been translated into French by abbe G. K. Garabed 
{Soulercment national de V A rmmie chretienne , Par. 1844, 
8vo), and into Italian by G. C’appelletti (Veil. 1811). 
Elisha is also the author of a history of Armenia, 
which, however, appears to be lost. — Wetzer u. Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. iii, 540 ; Hoefer, None. Blog. Gener. xv, 
884 ; Neumann, Versuch einer Gesch. der armen. Litter. 
p. G9, 70. (A. J. S.) 

Eli'sliah (Ileb. Elishah ', deriv. unknown ; 

Sept. ’E Xiad and ’E/Wcti ; Josephus, ’EAnrdf, Vulg. 
Elisa), the oldest of the four sons of Javan (Gen. x, 4 ; 
1 Chron. i, 7). B.C. cir. 2450. lie seems to have 
given name to a region on the Mediterranean, “the 
isles (E^X, shoi'es) of Elishah,” which are described 
as exporting fabrics of purple and scarlet to the mar- 
kets of Tyre (Ezek. xxvii, 7). If the descendants of 
Javan peopled Greece, we may expect to find Elishah 
in some province of that country. The circumstance 
of the purple suits the Peloponnesus, for the fish af- 
fording the purple dye was caught at the month of the 
Eurotas, and the purple of Laconia was very celebra- 
ted. See Purple. The name seems kindred to Elis 
(Bocliart, Phaleg, iii, 4), which, in a W'ider sense, was 
applied to the whole Peloponnesus; and some identify 
Elishah with Hellas (Michaelis, Spicileg. i, 79). — Kitto, 
s. v. Josephus, how'ever, identified the race of Eli- 
shah with the uEolians {Ant. i, G, 1). His view is 
adopted by Knobel ( Volkertnfel , p. 81 sq.). It ap- 
pears correct to treat it as the designation of a race 
rather than of a locality; and if Javan represents the 
lonians, then Elishah the yEolians, whose name pre- 
sents considerable similarity {AioXug having possibly 
been AiXcir), and whose predilection for maritime sit- 
uations quite accords with the expression in Ezekiel. 
In early times the yEolians were settled iti various 
parts of Greece, Thessaly, Pceotia, yEtolia, Loeris, Elis, 
and Messenia: from Greece they emigrated to Asia 
Minor, and in Ezekiel’s age occupied the maritime 
district in the N.W. of that country, named after them 
yEolis, together w'itli the islands Lesbos and Tenedos. 
The purple shell-fish was found on this coast, especial- 
ly at Abydus (Virgil, Georg, i, 207), Phoca?a (Ovid, 
Metum. vi, 9), Sigcum and Lectiim (Athemcus, iii, 88). 
Not much, however, can be deduced from thus as to 
the position of the “ isles of Elishah.” as that shell-fish 
was found in many parts of the Mediterranean, espe- 
cially on the coast of Laconia (Pausan. iii, 21, § G). — 


Smith, s. v. Schulthess {Paradies, p. 264), without 
the slightest probability, argues in favor of a position 
on the western coast of Africa, on the ground of the 
resemblance to Elisa as the Phoenician name of Car- 
thage. See Ethnology. 

Elish'ama (Heb. Elishama r , whom God 

has heard), the name of several men. 

1. (Sept. ’EXioafid v. r. in Chron. ’EXiaapai.) Son 
of Ammihud, and “ prince” or “captain” (both 

i. e. phylarch) of the tribe of Ephraim at the Exode 
(Num. i, 10; ii, 18; vii, 48, 53; x, 22). B.C. 1G58. 
From the genealogy in 1 Chron. vii, 2G, w r e find that 
he was the grandfather of Joshua. 

2 . (Sept. ‘EX to a gd v. r. ’EXioyr.) The second of the 
nine sons of David born at Jerusalem, exclusive of 
those by Bathsheba (1 Chron. iii, G) ; caVed in the par- 
allel passages (2 Sam. v, 15 ; 1 Chron. xiv, 5) by ap- 
parently the more correct name Elistiua (q. v.). 

3 . (Sept. ’EXurapd) The seventh of the same se- 
ries of sons (2 Sam. v, 1G ; 1 Chron. iii, 8 ; xiv, 7), be- 
ing one of the thirteen, or, according to the record of 
Samuel, the eleven, sons horn to David of his wives 
after his establishment in Jerusalem. B.C. post 1044. 
The list in Josephus {Ant. vii, 3, 3) has no similar 
name. See David. 

4 . (Sept. ’EXiuagd.) One of the two priests sent 
by Jehoshaphat with the Levites to teach the Law 
tli rough the cities of Judah (2 Chron. xvii, 8). B.C. 
912. 

5 . (Sept. ’EXtaapd.) Son of Jekamiah, a descend- 
ant of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 41). In the Jewish tradi- 
tions preserved by Jerome {Qu. Heir, on 1 Chron. ii, 
41) he appears to be identified with 

6. (Sept. ’ EXioafid v. r. in Jer. ’EAarra and 

od.) A member of the royal line of Judah ; father of 
Nethaniah, and grandfather of Ishvnael w r ho slew Ged- 
aliali, provisional governor of Jerusalem after its cap- 
ture by the Babylonians (2 Kings xxv, 25 ; Jer. xli, 
1). B.C. considerably ante 588. 

7 . (Sept. ’EXioafid.) A royal scribe in whose cham- 
ber the roll of Jeremiah was read to him and other as- 
sembled magnates, and afterwards deposited for a 
time (Jer. xxxvi, 12, 20, 21). B.C. G05. 

Elish'aphat (Ileb. Elishaphut ', - ~ X, whom 

God has judged ; Sept. ’EA«xa0«V v. r. ’EXioatpdv), son 
of Zichri, and one of the “captains of hundreds” whom 
Jehoiada associated with himself in the league to over- 
throw' the usurpation of Athaliali (2 Chron. xxiii, 1). 
B.C. 877. 

Elish'eba (Heb. Elishe'ba , God is her 

oath, or she sivears by God , i. e. worshipper of God, 
comp. Isa. xix, 8; Sept. ’EXiod^er, Vulg. Elisabeth ; 
as in Luke i, 7), the daughter of Amminadab, phylarch 
of the tribe of Judah, and sister of Nahshon, the cap- 
tain of the Hebrew' host (Num. ii, 3) ; she became the 
wife of Aaron (q. v.), and hence t lie mother of the 
priestly family (Exod. vi, 23). B.C. 1G58. 

Elishu'a (Heb. id. God is his sahation • 

Sept. ’EAorouf v. r. ’E\t<r«u and ’EAior/, Vulg. Elisua ), 
one of the sons of David, born at Jerusalem (2 Sam. v, 
15; 1 Chron. xiv, 5); called Elisiiama (q. v.) in the 
parallel passage (1 Chron. iii, G). B.C. post 1044. 

Elis'imns (EXidotgog ; Vulg. Liasuinus), an Isra- 
elite of the “sons of Zarnoth,” who divorced his Gen- 
tile wife after the exile (1 Esdr. ix, 28); evidently the 
Eliasiiib (q. v.) of the Ileb. text (Ezra x, 27). 

Eli'u (’ll Aeon, i. e. Elihu ), one of the forefathers of 
Judith (Jud. viii, 1), and therefore of the tribe of Sim- 
eon. See Judith. 

Eli'ud {’EXiovc, prob. for Heb. TUTPX, God is his 
praise, but not found in O. T.), son of Achim, and fa- 
ther of Eleazar, being the fifth in ascent in Christ’s 
paternal genealogy (Matt, i, 14, 15). B.C. cir. 200. 
See Genealogy of Christ. 


ELIZABETH 


161 


ELIZABETH 


Elizabeth, queen of England, ascended the throne 
on the death of her sister, the blood}' Mary, Nov. 17, 
1558, and died March 24 (April 3, New Style), 1G03. 
She was the daughter and only living child of Anne 
Boleyn and Henry VIII. She was born Sept. 7, 1533, 
and was therefore “full five-and-twenty years old when 
she came to the crown.” Before she was three years 
of age her mother was beheaded by her father, who, 
according to his own declaration, “ never spared man 
in his anger, nor woman in his lust.” On the 8th of 
June of the same year, 1536, the Parliament declared 
the divorces of Catharine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn 
legal, and bastardized the issue of both marriages. 
The same decision had been previously pronounced by 
archbishop Cramner in the Star-Chamber, and con- 
firmed by the Convocation. The Parliament also em- 
powered Henry to settle the succession by testament- 
tary disposition. In January, 1544, Elizabeth was re- 
stored to the line of royal inheritance. 

During the lifetime of her father her education was 
carefully encouraged, especially by queen Catharine 
Parr; and it was continued after his death. She was 
instructed in Latin and Greek by "William Grindal 
and Roger Ascliam. The latter commends her mas- 
culine power of application, quick apprehension, and 
retentive memory. “ She spoke French and Italian 
with fluency, was elegant in her penmanship, and was 
skilful in music, though she did not delight in it.” 
She seems also to have had some acquaintance with 
German. Her position was at all times exceedingly 
dubious, and rarely free from peril. 

On the accession of her brother Edward VI she en- 
countered other risks than those she had been previ- 
ously exposed to. In her infancy her band had been 
designed for the duke of Orleans, third son of Francis 
1 ; it was offered to the earl of Arran, and declined by 
him ; it was then proposed for Philip of Spain. Un- 
der Edward VI, admiral Seymour, the brother of the 
lord protector, hesitated between seeking the hand of 
Mary, Elizabeth, or the lady Jane Grey. He finally 
accepted that of the queen dowager, but did not dis- 
continue his amorous attentions, and renewed his ad- 
dresses to the princess Elizabeth on his wife’s death. 
Her fair fame was impeached by her encouragement 
of his devotions; and this furnished one of the charges 
against him which resulted in his execution. 

New dangers encompassed her on the death of her 
brother. Dudley, earl of Northumberland, father of 
the earl of Leicester, the subsequent favorite, had per- 
suaded the boy-king, in his last illness, to set aside 
both his sisters on the ground of their illegitimacy, 
and to bequeath the crown to the lady Jane Grey 
(great-niece of Henry VIII), who had recently been 
married to his fourth son, lord Guilford Dudley. Rid- 
ley, bishop of London, preached vehemently in favor 
of lady Jane, and against any supposed title of Mary 
and Elizabeth, both of whom were regarded as Roman 
Catholic, and favorable to the restoration of the old 
religion. Northumberland offered lands and money 
to Elizabeth to induce her to renounce her claims, but 
she adroitly evaded his proposals. 

The legitimacy of Mary was declared by Parlia- 
ment, which thus stigmatized anew the birth of Eliza- 
beth. She conformed to the rites of the Roman Cath- 
olic Church with some reluctance, but was viewed with 
suspicion. In 1554 she was implicated, in connection 
with her dissolute suitor, Courtenay, earl of Devon- 
shire, in Wyat’s conspiracy, and was confined to the 
Tower for two months. Her death was demanded ; 
but Philip II, now the husband of Mary, interposed, 
and she was put under surveillance at Woodstock. 
Philip proposed to bestow her upon Emanuel Phili- 
bert, duke of Savoy, who afterwards married, accord- 
ing to the provisions of the treaty of Cateau-Cambre- 
sis, Margaret of France. 

These points may appear trivial in a rapid notice of 
the life and reign of Elizabeth, but they affected both 

III.— L 


the development of her character and the policy of her 
government. The death of queen Mary exposed her 
to untried difficulties, requiring discernment, resolu- 
tion, and singular good fortune. Her accession to the 
throne was unchallenged in Parliament, and was heard 
with demonstrations of joy by the populace of London. 
She herself, however, in her retirement at Hatfield, 
recognised the gravity of the occasion. She had been 
declared illegitimate and incapable of the crown bv 
her father, by her brother, by the Star-Chamber, by 
the Convocation, and twice by act of Parliament. For 
the last twenty years the religion of England had been 
determined by royal edicts and parliamentary enact- 
ments. The majority of the people were Roman Cath- 
olic in consequence of the measures of the late reign. 
Elizabeth, in the presence of her dying sister, had 
“prayed God that the earth might open and swallow 
her alive if she were not a true Roman Catholic.” But, 
if Roman Catholicism remained the national creed, her 
tenure of the crown would be wholly precarious, as the 
illegitimacy of her birth would be inevitably and irre- 
fragably maintained. The superior title of Mary, queen 
of Scots, would prevail, perhaps, with the aid of French 
arms, while the Brandon or Suffolk line might seek 
Spanish support. Roman Catholic her government 
could not be; but, if she renounced Rome, she united 
the religious with the political enthusiasm of France, 
under the instigation of the Guises, against her reign, 
and alienated or provoked Philip II, then aspiring to 
universal dominion, and having in his own person 
some claims to the English throne, which he after- 
wards advanced, lie had hastened to tender his wid- 
owed heart and hand to the new queen immediately 
on the death of her sister. Could she venture to re- 
ject it at once, while his party was still strong, and in 
possession of all places of influence in England — while 
lier own throne was still uncertain ? She temporized, 
she coquetted, she entertained his proposals till she 
could reject them. She did not fully renounce the old 
and lately restored religion. She retained the cruci- 
fix and lights in her private chapel, and throughout 
her life addressed prayers to the Virgin. But she 
gradually abolished the most distinctive practices of 
the Papal Church, and established by act of Parlia- 
ment her ecclesiastical supremacy. Her own Protes- 
tantism was always political rather than religious; 
the creed was less important to her than the political 
submission of the people. Her first measures were 
very cautious, and were adroitly introduced by her 
great minister, Sir "William Cecil, who guided her 
councils till his death, forty years after. So insecure 
was her hold upon the sceptre, that in the year of her 
coronation her title was denied by pope Paul IV, and 
also by John Knox, who had written a diatribe against 
the intolerable regimen of icomen , and who at this time 
addressed a letter to the queen to persuade her to sur- 
render her crown. 

Nearly all omens were adverse. The state was di- 
vided into factions — all opposed to her. Foreign states 
were hostile or indifferent in interest and in sentiment. 
Her title was most questionable, if not utterly invalid. 
She had no support but her own brave heart, the pa- 
triotic antipathy of her people to foreign rule, the civil 
wars and discords prevailing or in prospect in the 
kingdoms around her, and the sagacity of the advisers 
whom she might choose. She had to knit together 
her own people into a nation, to win popular support 
by suppressing all factions at home, to avert foreign 
dangers by creating a party for herself, and provoking 
occupation for her enemies in the realms by ’which she 
was menaced. The character and conduct of Eliza- 
beth present a most interesting, but most difficult moral 
and historical study. No hasty and sweeping cen- 
sures, whether of praise or blame, can exhibit the com- 
plicated intertexture of threads of various material 
and hue in that strange fabric. All was not virtue, 
all was not vice. The virtues were obscured, soiled, 


ELIZABETH 


162 


ELIZABETH 


or dwarfed by supposed state necessities; the vices 
were darkened or deepened by ceaseless provocations 
and harassing perplexities. Never, perhaps, was an 
illustrious character composed of a more undistinguish- 
able admixture of fine gold, and dross, and clay, and 
never was there one better calculated to invite and re- 
ward curious examination. 

In the earlier years of her reign she could trust only 
to those political friends whose fortunes were indisso- 
lubly connected with her own, and to her relatives, 
principally by her mother’s line — the descendants of 
Mary Boleyn. As her throne became more assured, 
she attracted to her court the young men of ancient 
gentry, of adventurous spirit, of chivalrous bearing, 
of great but restricted ambition, and of high physical 
and intellectual advantages. Gentle birth, great tal- 
ents, and good looks were the passports to the favor 
of the court. She thus created supporters and officers 
for her crown. The old nobility she did not and could 
not trust. They were powers in the land which de- 
spised, envied, and menaced her own. She accumu- 
lated favors on Robert Dudley, earl of Leicester, from 
compassion for the fate of his father and brother, from 
regard for his courtly manners, perhaps for a tenderer 
feeling, which she deemed it unregal and unsafe to 
gratify. Leicester, like his father, was ever scheming 
for a crown. Essex she petted, indulged, spoiled, as 
a bright, petulant, promising youth, who was one of 
her nearest male relatives, and the chief hope of her 
lonely old age. 

Her crown was at first held merely by the acqui- 
escence of the nation ; it was not confirmed by any 
parliamentary sanction till the fourteenth year of her 
reign. Civil and religious disorder desolated Scotland, 
France, and the Netherlands : she prevented such com- 
motions in her own realm. She promptly suppressed 
the commencements of revolt; she arrested the nu- 
merous conspiracies against her life and throne before 
they had time to explode ; and she left her people a 
united, if not a harmonious nation — prosperous, intel- 
ligent, powerful, independent, and free. 

Menaced by the claims of Mary, and by their pro- 
spective advocacy bj r France or Spain, she placed her- 
self at the head of the Protestant movement, and aid- 
ed, openly or secretly, the Protestant lords in Scotland, 
the Huguenots in France, "William of Orange, and the 
Gueux in the Netherlands. She assisted all; she 
gave no decisive aid to any. 

In the midst of perils and successes at home and 
abroad, she made head against the incessant revolts 
of Ireland, which has been a thorn in the side of Brit- 
ain from the fabulous days of king Arthur to the cur- 
rent year of queen Victoria. Throughout her reign 
she was harassed by its state of chronic though inter- 
mittent rebellion, but in the year preceding her death 
she received its submission through lord Mountjov. 

The important results achieved in the long reign of 
Elizabeth were mainly due to the impulses communi- 
cated by herself and the policy pursued by her minis- 
ters. All portentous stars were in conjunction in her 
horoscope. Internal and external hazards environed 
her. Industry was disorganized, agriculture disor- 
dered, trade inactive, enterprise stagnant, fortunes 
were shattered, ranks confused, beggars and vaga- 
bonds multiplied by the confiscation and private ap- 
propriation of Church lands, by the inclosure of com- 
mons, and the extension of pasturage. These social 
evils were aggravated by the growth of colossal for- 
tunes alongside of increasing destitution among the 
masses, as commerce rapidly advanced under her rule. 
They were augmented also by the progressive depre- 
ciation of the precious metals, which grievously affect- 
ed the public revenue, and the condition of families 
with fixed and moderate means. 

All these circumstances must be considered in order 
to appreciate justly the otherwise suspicious and un- 
intelligible policy of Elizabeth. They explain the 


meaning, if they do not evince the propriety of her 
ecclesiastical measures ; they illustrate the spirit of 
her internal government; they interpret her severity 
to the beautiful and unfortunate queen w ho sought as 
a kinswoman an asylum and protection in her realm. 
They enable us to see how she fostered the high em- 
prize and the transcendent genius of the Elizabethan 
Age ; and how', in the midst of all the clouds and mists 
which obscured her career, she remained a right royal 
woman, created the national spirit of England, estab- 
lished the English Church, maintained the Protestant 
cause, and spread such blessings over the laud that 
to this day the popular imagination still fondly looks 
back to “ the merry days of good queen Bess.” 

Her religious policy was hostile alike to Roman Cath- 
olics and Puritans; yet llow'ard of Effingham, who 
commanded the navies of England against the Span- 
ish Armada, belonged to the Roman communion ; and 
nearly all her chief ministers w'ere supporters of the 
Puritan doctrine. There seems to be substantial truth 
in the declaration of lord Bacon, who had ample op- 
portunities of forming a correct judgment, who was 
I Puritan by family and political connections, but toler- 
ant by disposition. He says, with an affirmation of 
“certain knowledge,” “Most certain it is that it was 
the firm resolution of this princess not to offer any vi- 
olence to consciences; but then, on the other side, not 
to suffer the state of her kingdom to be ruined under 
pretence of conscience and religion.” Her aim was 
to maintain her ascendency in Church and State, in 
order to prevent internal divisions -which would invite 
external aggressions. It was impossible, in the tur- 
moil and religious acrimony of the period, to draw pre- 
cisely the line of discrimination between religious be- 
lief and political intrigue. There is reason to believe 
that the persecutions which darkened her reigu did 
not contemplate capital penalties till her crowm and 
life had both been endangered by papal excommuni- 
cations, by Papist plots, and by Spanish or domestic 
schemes of assassination. 

These principles also controlled in large measure 
her harsh, unsympathizing treatment of her beautiful 
and accomplished cousin, Mary of Scotland, whose 
graces have been employed, like the charms of Aspa- 
sia and Phryne in an Athenian court, to secure acquit- 
tal when the evidence compels a condemnation. If 
Mary was innocent of the murder of her husband ; if 
she w’as not involved in the Northern rebellion; if she 
did not beguile the duke of Norfolk ; if she did not 
connive at Babington’s conspiracy and other similar 
transactions ; if she did not instigate Hamilton of Both- 
wellhaugh to murder her royal jailor ; if she practised 
no collusion with Philip of Spain — all these things 
might have been readily credited by the English 
queen and her council, and such belief w r ould remove 
the atrocity, if not the formal illegality, of their proce- 
dure. But if all, or most of these suspicions were well 
founded ; if they have been confirmed by the most 
dispassionate historians, and by the most recent and 
diligent investigations, the action of Elizabeth may 
still be illegal, but it ceases to be iniquitous. It should 
be remembered, too, that Elizabeth did not consent to 
the trial of Mary till after repeated and urgent de- 
mands from the lords and commons of England in 
Parliament assembled ; that her signature of the death- 
warrant is by no means certain ; that it was issued 
and carried into effect without her consent, and con- 
trary to her orders ; and that the execution caused her 
bitter agony and horror. This plea is, indeed, coun- 
terbalanced by the suspicion that she sought the remo- 
val of her royal captive by secret murder. Such a 
design is, of course, infamous, though in accordance 
with the spirit and practices of the age. 

To these habits of indirect procedure may be referred 
much of that matrimonial coquetting which furnished 
occasion for the malignant censures of hostile contem- 
poraries. There w'as much female vanity in the fre- 


ELIZABETH 


163 


ELIZABETH 


quent and not always coy- reception of tender address- 
es. The Tudor blood displayed its licentious warmth 
5n Margaret and Mary, the sisters of Henry VIII, and 
In their female descendants, as well as in “bluff king 
Harry.” But there was much also of policy in Eliza- 
beth’s demeanor. It introduced a courtly language 
jvhich has often been misconstrued. It cannot have 
been entirely unworthy, degrading, or vicious, when it 
inspired the compliments of Sidney, and Raleigh, and 
Spenser, and Shakspeare, and Bacon. There is a 
fashion in language and manners as well as in dress, 
and the fashion must be regarded if we would inter- 
pret their significance. 

The supposition of a warmer attachment to Essex 
than the natural attachment of an aged relative for 
the hopeful representative of an almost extinct line 
has neither foundation nor probability. Just as little 
truth is there in the fancy that her life was overcast 
and her death hastened by the execution of Essex. 
The misguided earl had been guilty of the grossest 
breach of trust and treachery at the head of the gov- 
ernment and armies of Ireland; he had repeated his 
treason, and menaced her existence .and crown, in the 
midst of her capital. He had a solemn trial, and was 
inevitably condemned. He confessed the enormity of 
his guilt, and the queen shortly after assured the em- 
bassador of Henry IV that she felt no scruples in re- 
gard to his punishment. 

Whatever may be thought on these points, which 
will always be disputed, the spirit, the conduct, and 
the measures of Elizabeth encouraged and produced 
the most splendid outburst of national prowess and of 
varied abilities that any age has ever witnessed. 
Strong men surrounded her from the first — men of 
marked capacity as statesmen, of eminent qualities as 
precursors of the approaching splendor — Sir William 
Cecil, Sir Nicholas Bacon, Sir Francis Walsingham, 
Sir Ralph Sadler, the earl of Sussex, and lord Sack- 
ville. But she had been a quarter of a century on 
the throne, more than half her reign was passed, and 
she was verging to old age before the great names 
which immortalized her times commenced those 
achievements which have immortalized themselves. 
It was under the inspiration of her rule, and of the re- 
sults attained by her rule, that the brilliant generation 
grew up which has left to all future admiration the 
names of Sidney, and Spenser, and Shakspeare, and 
Bacon — of Raleigh, and Vere, and Essex, and Gren- 
ville — of Hooker and Gilbert — the generation which 
confirmed the independence of England and of Europe, 
which invented new arts, extended and applied the 
principles of law and government, secured the Pro- 
testant ascendency, founded colonies, extended com- 
merce, glorified letters, discovered new sciences, and 
established the political eminence, the industrial 
wealth, and the intellectual empire of England. 

The first twenty years of Elizabeth’s reign were oc- 
cupied in consolidating her throne, by averting foreign 
aggression through the encouragement given by her 
to the insurgents in each neighboring state, by sup- 
pressing disorder and divisions at home, and by pro- 
moting Protestant interests at home and abroad. The 
next twenty years, which terminated with the peace 
of Verviiis, was a period of secret or open contention 
with Philip of Spain. The execution of Mary, queen 
of Scots, 1587, and the defeat of the Spanish Armada, 
1588, marked the culmination of this perilous struggle. 
It was closed by the death of the great minister, lord 
Burleigh. The last five years of her reign were free 
from serious apprehensions of foreign dangers, but 
they were distracted by the disturbances in Ireland, 
by the treacherous intrigues of the court, and by the 
ambitious designs of the reckless and ungrateful Es- 
sex. Her whole life was one long succession of haz- 
ards, and after all her glories she died lonely, unloved, 
and without friends. 

Few sovereigns have ever impressed themselves 


more strongly than Elizabeth upon the imaginations 
and hearts of their people ; few ever bestowed greater 
or more permanent benefits upon them ; yet few have 
met with blinder admiration or more undistinguishing 
vituperation. The presumptions are all adverse to 
this great queen. Contemporary slanders, designed 
for political objects, have crystallized themselves into 
commonly accepted facts. But with each addition to 
our knowledge of the period, the perception of her he- 
roism, and even of her virtues, becomes clearer, and 
the exaggeration or false coloring of her frailties di- 
minishes. It was an age of great crimes and of mul- 
titudinous vices, and Elizabeth did not escape the con- 
tamination ; but a minute study of the fearful difficul- 
ties of her position from infancy to old age will produce 
profound commiseration rather than bitter censure. 

It is only in the diaries and journals of Parliament; 
in the state papers of the time; in the records of the 
religions and political intrigues of the period; in the 
reports of Venetian, French, and Spanish embassadors; 
in contemporaneous memoirs, and in the numerous 
miscellaneous letters and papers of the age, that the 
true characteristics of Elizabeth and her reign can be 
discovered. Perhaps a definite conclusion cannot be 
reached until the voluminous calendars and other rec- 
ords, now in process of publication under the auspices 
of the Master of the Rolls, have been given to the 
world. Certainly the portrait offered by the latest 
historian of her reign, Mr. Froude, cannot he accepted 
with any confidence, for it is as strangely distorted 
and miscolored as his picture of Henry VIII. The 
commendation of her earliest eulogist, lord Bacou, 
who knew her well, is still appropriate : “ To say the 
truth, the only commender of this lady’s virtues is 
time, which, for as many ages as it hath run, hath not 
yet showed us one of the female sex equal to her in 
the administration of a kingdom.” 

The literature of this subject is so extensive that it 
is scarcely necessary to enumerate particular works. 
An}" or all of the historians of England may be con- 
sulted ; but further researches may be aided by exam- 
ining Camden, Annals of Queen Elizabeth; Strype’s 
Annals of the Reformation in England; Harrison’s De- 
scription of England in Hall’s Chronicle ; Sir Robert 
Naunton, Fragment a Regalia; Svmonds d’E wes’s Dia- 
ry ; Rushworth’s Collections; II arleian Miscellany ; Fe- 
licities of Queen Elizabeth, in the works of Lord Bacon ; 
Egerton, Sidney, and Burleigh Papers; Miss Strick- 
land’s Life of Queen Elizabeth', Miss Aiken’s Memoirs 
of Queen Elizabeth; Wright’s Elizabeth; Mignet, Hist. 
Mary, Queen of Scots; Caird, Mary Stuart ; Froude’s 
Hist. England , and the Calendars of State Papers for 
the period published by the British government. A 
very able essay on queen Elizabeth and queen Mary 
appeared in the Edinburgh Review for October, 1866. 
(G. F. H.) 

Elizabeth, Albertine, conntess of the Palati- 
nate, was born at Heidelberg Dec. 26, 1618. She was 
the eldest daughter of the unfortunate Friedrich V, 
king of Bohemia, and of Elizabeth Stuart, daughter of 
James I. The misfortunes of her family led to her 
becoming abbess of the institution of Herford, in V est- 
phalia, where she died Feb. 11, 1680. She was no less 
distinguished for her high attainments in literature 
and science than for her sincere and active piety. All 
true Christians in need of help were sure to receive it 
from her. She was the intimate friend of Fox, Keith, 
Barclay, Malebranche, Leibnitz, Des Cartes, Giehtel, 
etc. Penn, in a passage of his “No Cross , no Crown,” 
pays a fitting tribute to her piety and virtue. — Her- 
zog, Reol-Encyklop. iii, 769. See Guhrauer, Pfdzgrafm 
Elisabeth (Raumer’s Ilistorisches Taschenbuch, 1851) ; 
Goebel, Gesck. d. christ lichen Lebens in d. rhein.-west- 
phdl. evang. Kirche (Coblentz, 1852). 

Elizabeth, Saint, of Thuringia, was a daughter 
of king Andrew II, of Hungary, and -was horn at 


ELIZABETH 


164 


ELK AN AH 


Pressburg in 1207. AVhen only four years old she was | 
destined by her father to become the wife of Ludwig, 
oldest son of landgrave Hermann of Thuringia. She 
was immediately sent to the court of the landgrave, at 
the Wartburg, for her education, and on her arrival 
was betrothed to Ludwig. She early showed a re- 
markable inclination for ascetic exercises. Several 
efforts were on that account made to have her sent 
back to her father, but Ludwig, who in 1215 succeeded 
his father as landgrave, refused to dismiss her, and in ! 
1221 married her. As landgravine she continued her 
ascetic manners, and refused all the comforts of life. 
At the same time, she was indefatigable in all works of 
charitv. She spun and sowed garments for the poor, 
and, at the time of a famine, fed as many as 900 peo- 
ple daily. Her confessor, Konrad von Marburg, not 
only encouraged her asceticism, but made her vow ab- 
solute obedience, and that, in the case of her husband’s 
death, she would not marry again. Ludwig died in 
1227, at Otranto, while taking part in the crusade of 
emperor Friedrich II. In consequence of the opposi- 
tion of her mother-in-law Sophia, and most of the 
members of the family, as well as tho courtiers gener- 
ally. Elizabeth was deprived of the regency during the 
minority of her oldest son, and her brother-in-law, 
Ileinrich Raspe, assumed the administration of the 
landgravate. Soon Elizabeth, with her son Hermann, 
and her two daughters, was expelled from the Wart- 
burg, and for a time had to beg in the streets of Eise- 
nach for t he necessaries of life. At length she found a 
refuge at one of the castles of her maternal uncle, the 
bishop of Bamberg. Repeated offers of a second mar- 
riage (even, it is said, from the emperor Friedrich), 
which were made to her she refused. When the 
knights who had accompanied her husband returned 
from the crusade, they compelled Ileinrich Raspe to 
restore to Elizabeth the Wartburg, and the revenue to 
v'hieh she could lay claim as the widow of the land- 
grave. Subsequently Heinrich gave her the town of 
Marburg, with a number of adjoining villages, and 
an annual income of 500 marks in silver. Elizabeth 
took up her residence at Marburg in 1229, and again 
devoted her whole time to asceticism and benevolence. 
Her confessor Konrad not only continued to be very 
severe, but several times was even guilty of acts of 
great cruelty v r ith regard to her. Nevertheless, she 
declined an invitation from her father to return to 
him. Exhausted by her ascetic life, she died in a hos- 
pital which had been erected by her, Nov. 19, 1231. 
The fame of her ascetic life had already pervaded all 
Europe, and, as was usual in such cases, the people soon 
ascribed to her relics a number of miracles, about the 
details of which there is, however, tlie greatest dis- 
crepancy among the contemporaneous writers, showing 
how little they rested on careful investigation. No 
longer than four years after her death, in 1235, she was j 
canonized by pope Gregory IX. In 1236 her relies 
were transferred with great solemnity to a new church 
(St. Elizabeth's) which landgrave Konrad erected at 
Marburg. The emperor Friedrich II placed a golden 
crown on the head of the saint, and an immense crowd 
of people, estimated at 200,000, came to see the relies 
while exhibited to public view. After the Reforma- 
tion, landgrave Philip, in order not to countenance 
the veneration of relics, had them removed from the 
church ; subsequently the Teutonic knights obtained 
permission to send them to various Roman Catholic 
churches aiul convents. Her head is preserved in the 
church of St. Elizabeth at Breslau. — See Herzog, Real- 
Eucyklop. iii, 767 ; Wctzer und Welto, Kirch. -Lex . iii, 
5 1; Iloefer, Xouv. Blog. G tiler (lie, xv, 875; Jnsti, 
Elisabeth die Ileilige (Zurich, 1797, 2d ed. Marb. 1835) ; 
Schmerbaueh, Elisabeth die Hedge (Erfurt, 1828); 
Montalembert, Vie de St. Elisabeth (Par. 1835): . Simon, 
Ludiriff IV and s. Gemahlin, die heil. E'isab. (Frankf. 
1854); Kahnis, Die heil. El is. "in Zeitschrift fur hist or. 
Theol. 1868. See Komi ad vox Makbukg. (A. J. S.) 


Elizabethines. (1.) Associations of women whose 
object it w r as to imitate the ascetic life and the benev- 
olent zeal of Elizabeth (q. v.) of Thuringia. They did 
not retire from the world, and only met for prayer and 
some ascetic exercises. (2.) A branch of nuns of the 
third order of St. Francis, so called after Elizabeth of 
Hungary, who, after the death of her husband, is said 
to have joined of the third order of St. Francis. Mod- 
ern writers on monastic orders generally doubt or deny 
the report that Elizabeth ever was a member of the 
third order of Franciscans, but tlie name Elizabeth- 
ines is still in use to designate Franciscan nur.s of 
the third order. In France they have also been des- 
ignated by tlie name of Saurs or Filles de la JMiseri- 
corde (Sisters of Charity). The real foundress of the 
monastic community is said to have been Angelina di 
Corbaro, daughter of the count of Ccrbaro and Tisig- 
niano. She was bom in 1377, married the count de 
Civitelle, with whom she lived as a sister, and imme- 
diately after the death of her husband (1393) joined 
the third order of Franciscans. She founded the first 
monastery of Franciscan Tertiarians in 1395 at Folig- 
no. In 1428 the monasteries of this order were organ- 
ized into a congregation, which was authorized to 
elect at the triennial conventions (“Chapters Gener- 
al”) a general. In 1459 the congregation was placed 
under the general of the Franciscan Observants. In 
the middle of the 16th century the Elizabethines had 
135 monasteries and 3872 nuns. In 1843 the number 
of members was estimated at 1000. — Helyot, Did. des 
Ordres Relig. (ed. Mignc), ii, 144 ; Fehr, Gescliichte der 
Monchsordeu, i, 275. (A. J. S.) 

Eliz'aphan (Heb. Elitsajdian , whom 

God has protected ; Sept. ’EXiacapdi’), tlie name of two 
men. 

1. Second son of Uzziel, and chief of the Kohalhite 
Levites at the Exode (Num. iii. 30 : Exod. vi, 22). 
B.C. 1657. He, with his elder brother, was directed 
by Moses to carry away the corpses of their sacrile- 
gious cousins Nadab and Abiliu (Lev. x, 4). In these 
two last-cited passages the name is written contracted 
into Elzapiian. Ills family was known and repre- 
sented in the days of king David (I Chron. xv, 8), and 
took part in the revival of Hezekiah (2 Chron. xxix, 
13). 

2. Son of Parnoch, and phylarch (is*’,!*!, “prince’’) 
of the tribe of Zebulon at the Exode, being one of the 
men appointed to assist Moses in apportioning the land 
of Canaan. 

Eli'ztir (Ileb. Elitsnr ', God is his rock ; 

Sept. ’E/Wocr), son of Shedeur, and phylarch (X N U r ‘3 J 
“ prince”) of the tribe of Reuben at the Exode (Num. 
i, 5; ii, 10; vii, 30, 35 ; x, 18). B.C. 1657. 

Elka'nah [some EEkanaK] (Hebrew, Elkanah 
whom God has gotten ; Sept. ’EX Kara, but EX- 
Krti'«in Exod., and ’HXjcara v. r. ’EXicavct in 1 Chron. 
xii, 6 ; xv, 23 ; Josephus, 'EXuchniQ and ’EX /cap ; Vulg. 
Elcuna ), the name of several men, all apparently Le- 
vites. 

1. Second son of Korali, the son of Izhar, the son 
of Kohatli, the son of Levi, according to Exod. vi, 24, 
where his brothers are represented as being Assir and 
Abiasaph. But in 1 Cliron. vi, 22, 23 (llelir. 7, 8) 
Assir, Elkanah, and Ebiasaph are mentioned in the 
same order, not as the three sons of Korah. but as son, 

! grandson, and great-grandson respectively; and this 
seems to be correct. If so, the passage in Exodus 
must be understood as merely giving the families of 
the Korhites existing at the time the passage was 
penned, which must in this case have been long sub- 
! sequent to Moses. In Num. xxvi, 58, “the family 
of the Korhites” (A. V. “ Korathites”) is mentioned 
as one family. As regards the fact of Korah’s de- 
scendants continuing, it may be noticed that we are 
I expressly told in Num. xxvi, 11, that when Korah 


ELKESAITES 


ELKESAITES 


1 Go 


and his company died, ‘‘the children of Korah died 
not.” — Smith, s. v. See Koraii. Oil the above view, 
this Elkanah becomes the son of Assir (q. v.), grand- 
son of Korah, and father of Ebiasaph (q. v.). B.C. 
cir. 1700. See Samuel. A writer in the Journal of 
Sacred Lit. (April, 1852, p. 200), however, proposes to 
reject both Assir and this first Elkanah from the list 
in Chronicles. 

2 . Son of Shanl or Joel, being father of Amasai, 
and sixth in descent from Ebiasaph, son of the fore- 
going (1 Chron. vi, 25, 36). B.C. cir. 1445. 

3 . Son of Ahimoth or Mahutli, being father of Zuph 
or Zophai, and great grandson of the one immediately 
preceding (1 Chron. vi, 26, 35). B.C. cir. 1340. (See 
Ilervey, Genealogies , p. 210, 214, note.) 

4 . Another Kohathite Levite, in the line of Heman 
the singer. B.C. cir. 1190. lie was the fifth in de- 
scent from the foregoing, being son of Jeroham, and 
father of Samuel, the illustrious judge and prophet (1 
Chron. vi, 27, 28, 33, 34). Jcsephus {Ant. v, 10, 2) 
calls him a man “of middle condition among his fel- 
low-citizens” (rwr tv fdfjoj iru\iTun>). All that is 
known of him is contained in the above notices and in 
1 Sam. i, 1, 4, 8, 19, 21, 23, and ii, 2, 20, where we 
learn that he was of a Bethlehemite stock (an “ Ephra- 
thite;” the Levites not being confined to their cities), 
bnt lived at Ramathaim-Zophim in Mount Ephraim, 
otherwise called Ramah ; that he had two wives, Han- 
nah and Peninnah, but had no children by the former, 
till the birth of Samuel in answer to Hannah’s prayer. 
AVe learn also that he lived in the time of Eli the high- 
priest, and of his sons llophni and Phinelias; that he 
was a pious man, who went up yearty from Ramathaim- 
Zophim to Shiloh, in the tribe of Ephraim, to worship 
and sacrifice at the tabernacle there ; but it does not 
appear that he performed any sacred functions as a 
Levite ; a circumstance quite in accordance with the 
account which ascribes to David the establishment of 
the priestly and Levitical courses for the Temple ser- 
vice. He seems to have been a man of some wealth 
from the nature of his yearly sacrifice, which enabled 
him to give portions out of it to all his family, and 
from the costly offering of three bullocks w hen Sam- 
uel was brought to the house of the Lord at Shiloh. 
After the birth of Samuel, Elkanah and Hannah con- 
tinued to live at Ramah (where Samuel afterwards 
had his house, 1 Sam. vii, 7), and had three sons and 
two daughters. — Smith, s. v. See Samuel. 

5 . Another man of the family of the Korhites w ho 
joined David while he was at Ziklag (1 Chron. xii, 6). 
B.C. 1054. From the terms of ver. 2, some have 
thought it doubtful whether this can be the v'ell-known 
Levitical family of Korhites ; but the distinction there 
seems merely to refer to residents w ithin the tribe of 
Benjamin, which included the Levitical cities. Per- 
haps he was the same who was one of the tw r o door- 
keepers for the ark w r hen it was brought to Jerusalem 
(1 Chron. xv. 23). B.C. 1043. 

6. An officer in the household of Ahaz, king of Ju- 
dah, and slain by Zichri the Ephraimite, w r hen Pekali 
invaded Judah; apparently the second in command 
under the prefect of the palace (2 Chron. xxviii, 7). 
B.C. 739. Josephus says that he was the general of 
the troops of Judah, and that he was merely carried 
into captivity by “Amaziah,” the Israelitisli general 
{Ant. ix, 12, 1). See Aiiaz. 

7. Father of one Asa, and head of a Levitical fam- 
ily resident in the “villages of the Netophathites” (1 
Chron. ix, 1G). B.C. long ante 53G. 

Elkesaites, a sect of Jewish Christians, which 
sprang up in the 2d century. The origin of the name 
is uncertain. Delitzsch (in Kudelbach u. Guericke, 
Zeitschrift , 1841) derives it from a hamlet, Elkesi, in 
Galilee. The Church fathers derived it from the name 
of a pretended founder, Elxai, w hich name, according 
to Epiphauius, denotes “a hidden pow’er” ( n D2 b^n). 


Elxai is probably not the name of a person, but the 
name of a book which w*as the chief authority for this 
sect. Gieseler thinks that the name signifies the Holy 
Ghost, w r hieh in Horn. Clem, xvii, 16, is called evvctfiiQ 
itoctpKQQy 1 ‘ the incorporeal power.” At all events, the 
sect held as highest doctrinal authority a book wdiich is 
brought into connection with Elxai. This book, which 
appears to have been the chief authority of all the 
Gnostic sects of Jewish Christians, w r as known to Ori- 
gen (Euseb. Hist. Heel, vi, 38), and the Syrian Aleibi- 
ades of Apamea brought it with him to Rome. Epi- 
phanius shows its influence among all sects of Jewish 
Christians. As Origen reports, this book w r as believed 
to have fallen from heaven ; according to an account 
in the Philosophoumena , it was revealed by an angel, 
who was the Son of God. Elxai is said to have re- 
ceived it from the Seri, in Partliia, in the third year 
of Trajan (A.D. 101), and its contents w r ere communi- 
cated to no one except upon an oath of secrecy. 
Ritschl puts the origin of the book in the last third 
of the second century, while Uhlhorn thinks that it 
must have originated soon after the beginning of the 
second century, as it served as the basis of the doc- 
trinal system of the Clementine Homilies, which were 
nearly completed about A.D. 150. 

The best account of the standard book of the Elke- 
saites is to be found in the Philosophoumena , and its 
main points are confirmed by the statements of Ori- 
gen. Epiphanius, as usual, is somew r hat confused in 
his exposition of the sect, and his report seems in 
many points to refer to a modified, and not the orig- 
inal system. According to the Philosophoumena , there 
was in the Elkesaite system a pagan element of natur- 
alism, mixed with Jewish and Christian elements. 
The pagan element show's itself in particular in the 
ablutions. A remission of sins is proclaimed upon the 
ground of a new r baptism, consisting without doubt in 
oft-repeated ablutions, which were also used against 
sickness, and were made in the name of the Father 
and the Son. In connection wfitli these ablutions ap- 
pear seven witnesses — the five elements, and oil and 
salt (also bread), the latter tw r o denoting baptism and 
the Lord’s Supper. The same pagan element appears 
in the use made by the Elkesaites of astronomy and 
magic ; even baptismal days were fixed in accordance 
with the position of the stars. The Jewish element 
appears in the obligatory character of the law, and in 
circumcision. They rejected, however, sacrifices, and 
also several parts of the Old and New Testaments (of 
the latter, the Pauline epistles). Their views of < hrist 
seem not to have been settled. On the one hand, their 
Christ is described as an angel ; on the other, they 
taught a repeated, continuous incarnation of Christ, 
although his birth of a virgin seems to have been re- 
tained. The Lord’s Supper w r as celebrated wfitli bread 
i and salt ; tho eating of meat w T as forbidden ; marriage 
was highly esteemed; renunciation of the faith in 
time of persecution was allowed. A prayer, which is 
i preserved by Epiphanius (xix, 4), is entirely unintel- 
ligible. 

The Elkesaite doctrine probably arose among the 
Jewish Christians, w T ho, in the neighborhood of the 
Dead Sea, coalesced with the Essenes, and were to 
some extent influenced by Oriental paganism. Under 
bishop Callistus of Rome, a certain Alcibiades of Apa- 
mea went to that city as an Elkesaite teacher, and in 
274 Origen met a missionary of the sect at Caesarea. 
These efforts appear, how r ever, to have met with but 
little success. The Clementine Homilies contain a 
further development of Elkesaite doctrines, with a 
stronger predominance of the Christian element. At 
the time of the emperor Constantius, Epiphanius found 
Elkesaites to the east of the Dead Sea, in Nabathaea, 
Iturasa, and Moabitis. He calls them Sapxpaiot, which 
name he explains as //A taKoi, and therefore seems 
to have derived from “sun.” From the cir- 


ELKOSH 


166 


ELLER 


cum stance that in Epiphanius EIxai appears among 
nearly all parties of Jewish Christians, Uhlhorn infers 
that the Elkesaites were not so much a separate sect 
as a school among all sects of Jewish Christians. 
Ritsehl regards thorn as antipodes of the Montanists, 
and, as their chief peculiarity, the setting forth of a 
new theory of remission of sins by a new baptism, 
llefele, in Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchcn-Lex. art. Ebioni- 
ten, iii, 359, takes the Elkesaites for the highest of 
four classes of Jewish Essenes, from whom, or, rather, 
from a member of whom (the EIxai of Epiphanius), 
a party of Ebionites received about the middle of the 
second" century a gnosis or theosophic secret system, 
which -was fully developed in the Clementine Homi- 
lies. See Uhlhorn, in Herzog , Real-Encyldop. iii, 771 
(which article is the basis of our account) ; Ritsehl, 
Ueber d. Sekte. der Elkesaiien , in Zeitschrift far histor. 
Theologie , 1853; Hefele, in Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen- 
Lex. [art. Ebioniten], iii, 358; and [art. Clement I] ii, 
590; Schaff, Hist . of the Christ. Church , § 69 ; Lipsius, 
Zur Quellen-Kritik des Epiphanius (Vien. 1865) ; Mos- 
heim, Ch. Hist. bk. i, c. ii, pt. ii, eh. v, 3, 5-7. (A. J. S.) 

El'kosh i. e. Cod is its bow , see Fiirst, 

Ilebr. JIandw . s. v.), the birthplace of the prophet Na- 
hum, hence called “ the Elkoshite” (Nah. i, 1). Two 
widely differing Jewish traditions assign as widely 
different localities to this place. In the time of Je- 
rome it was believed to exist in a small village of 
Galilee. The ruins of some old buildings were point- 
ed out by his guide as the remains of the ancient El- 
kosh (Jerome, on Xah. i, 1). Cyril of Alexandria 
(Comm, on Nahum ) says that the village of Elkosh was 
somewhere or other in the country of the Jews. Pseu- 
do-Epiphanins ( De Vitis prophet arum , in his Opp. ii, 
247) places Elkosh on the east of the Jordan, at Betha- 
bara (tig Bjjyafiap, Chron. Pasch. p. 150, Cod. B, has 
Etc fSijTaficipiiv'), where he says the prophet died in 
peace. According to Schwartz ( Palestine , p. 188), the 
grave of Nahum is shown at Kefr Tanchum . , a village 
2£ English miles north of Tiberias. A village of the 
name El-Kauzah is found about 24- hours S.W. of Tib- 
nin, which seems to correspond with Jerome’s notice. 
Another village of that name, also an ancient site, lies 
on a high hill rather more than 2 hours S. of Nablous 
(Van de Yelde, Memoir , p. 309). But mediaeval tra- 
dition, perhaps for the convenience of the Babylonian 
Jews, attached the fame of the prophet's burial place 
to El-Kush , or Alkosh, a village on the east bank of 
the Tigris, near the monastery of Rabban Ilormuzd, 
and about two miles north of Mosul. It is situated on 
a stony declivity, has a few gardens, and contains 
about 30 papal Nestorian families (Perkins, in the Bib- 
lioth. Sacra, July, 1852, p. 643). Benjamin of Tudela 
(p. 53, ed. Asher) speaks of the synagogues of Nahum, 
Obadiah, and donah at Asshur, the modern Mosul. 
R. Petachia (p. 35, ed. Benisch) was shown the proph- 
et’s grave, at a distance of four parasangs from that 
of Baruch, the son of Neriah, which was itself distant 
a mile from the tomb of Ezekiel. It is mentioned in 
a letter of Masins, quoted by Assomani ( Bibl . Otient. 
i, 525). Jews from the surrounding districts make a 1 
pilgrimage to it at eertain seasons. The synagogue 
which is built over the tomb is described by Colonel 
Shiel, who visited it in his journey through Kurdistan 
( Joiirn . Geog. Soc. viii, 93). Rich evidently believed 
in the correctness of the tradition, considering the pil- 
grimage of the Jews as almost sufficient test ( Kurdis- 
tan, i, 101). bayard, however, speaks less confidently 
(A 'inereh, i, 197). Gesenius doubts the genuineness 
of either locality ( Thes . Ileb. p. 1211 b). The tradition 
which assigns Elkosh to Galilee is more in accordance 
with the internal evidence afforded by the prophecy', 
which gives no sign of having been written in Assyria 
(Knobel, Prophet, ii, 208; Hitzig, Kl. Proph. p. 212; 
Edwards, in the Bibliotheca Sacra, Aug. 1848, p. 557 
sq.). — Smith, 6. v. Sec Naiiuji. 


El'koshite (Heb. Elkoshi , the regular 

patrial form; Sept. ’EX/cferaioCjVnlg. Elcesceus'), an epi- 
thet (Nah. i, 1) of the prophet Nahum (q. v.), appar- 
ently as an inhabitant of Elkosii (q. v.). 

El'lasar (Heb. Ellasar', Fiirst suggests 

[Heb. Ilandurb. s. v.] that it may be compounded of 
and = Sept. ’EWavdp), a terri- 

tory in Asia, vdiose king, Arioch, was one of the four 
who invaded Canaan in the time of Abraham (Gen. 
xiv, 1, 9). The association of this king with those of 
Elam and Shinar indicates the vicinity of Babylonia 
and Elvmais as the region in which the kingdom 
should be sought ; but nothing further is known of it, 
unless it be the same as Thelasar mentioned in 2 
Kings xix, 12, the Telassar of Isa. xxxvii, 12. Svm- 
maclius and the Vulg. understand Pontus. The Jeru- 
salem Targum renders the name by Telassar. The 
Assyro-Babj'lonish name of the king Arioch (q. v.) 
would seem to point to some province of Persia or As- 
syria (compare Dan. ii, 14). Col. Rawlinson thinks 
(see Jour. Sac. Lit. Oct. 1851, p. 152 note) that Ellasar 
is the Hebrew representative of the old Chalda?an 
town called in the native dialect Larsa or Larancha, 
and known to the Greeks as Larissa (A dparaa') or Lar- 
achon (Aapa'x(oi'). This suits the connection with 
Elam and Shinar (Gen. xiv, 1), and the identification 
is orthographical^ defensible. Larsa was a town of 
Lower Babylonia or Chaldrea, situated nearly half way 
between Ur (now Mugheir) and Erech (Warka), on the 
left bank of the Euphrates. It is now' SenJcereh. The 
inscriptions shoyv it to have been one of the primitive 
capitals, of earlier date, probably, than Babylon itself; 
and we may gather from the narrative in Gen. xiv, 
that in the time of Abraham it was the metropolis of a 
kingdom distinct from that of Shinar, but owning al- 
legiance to the superior monarchy of Elam. That we 
hear no more of it after this time is owing to its ab- 
sorption into Babylon, which took place soon after- 
wards. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Abraiiam. 

Eller, Elias, chief of a fanatical sect known under 
the name of the Ellerians, or “ Communion of Ronsdorf.” 
He was born in 1690 (according to others, in the be- 
ginning of the 18th century). He w\as the son of a 
poor peasant in the village of Ronsdorf, in the duchy 
of Berg, where at that time not only Pietism, but Mil- 
lenarianism and “ Philadelphian” mysticism had nu- 
merous adherents. He early went to Elberfeld to find 
employ ment in a manufactory, and while there he won 
the confidence of a rich w’idow, Bolckhaus, to so high a 
degree that she married him. Eller at this time had 
already gained a great influence among the Separatists 
in Elberfeld, as he was thoroughly acquainted with the 
writings of all the leading Mystics. Having become 
rich by his marriage, he soon (1726) organized, together 
with a Reformed pastor, Sclileiermaeher, a society of 
Apocalyptic Millenariar.s who regularly met in his 
house, and on meeting and separating greeted each 
other with a “ seraphic” kiss. Among the regular at- 
tendants at these meetings was Anna von Bnchel, the 
beautiful daughter of a baker in Elberfeld, who soon 
astonished the w hole society by her ecstasies and vis- 
ions, and by the w T onderful prophecies which she pro- 
claimed while in this condition. She claimed to hold 
frequent conversations with the Lord, and announced 
the beginning of the millennium to take place in 1730. 
The new doctrine found many adherents, and number- 
ed upwards of 50 families ; but the relations of Anna 
with Eller became at the same time so intimate that 
Eller’s wife openly accused the two of illicit inter- 
course, and declared the prophecies of Anna to be a 
deliberate fraud. Eller declared his wife to be insane, 
and had her locked up, while Anna claimed to have re* 
ceived a revelation that Eller’s wife was possessed by 
an evil spirit, and w’ould soon be carried off by Satan. 
The w'hole society, even the sons of Eller’s wife from 


ELLERIANS 


167 


ELLIS 


her first marriage, believed this announcement, and 
the unfortunate woman was consequently subjected to 
the utmost indignities and tribulations for about six 
months, when death put an end to her sufferings. Al- 
most immediately after her burial Eller married Anna 
von Bucliel. His society was now deemed sufficiently 
strong to appear in public. Eller maintained, in union 
with the prophecies of Professor Horch in Marburg, 
that in accordance with Rev. iii, 1, 7, the Church of 
Sardis would cease in 1729, and the Church of Phila- 
delphia begin in 1730. The revelations and visions 
of his wife increased rapidly. What she announced 
as a new revelation was laid down in a writing, which 
was subsequently communicated to the initiated under 
the name of the “ Ilirteiitasche” (“The Shepherd’s 
Bag”). The chief points of the new doctrines were, 
The Bible is the Word of God, but a new revelation 
has become necessary, and this is laid down in the 
Ilirtentasche. Not only the ancient saints, but the 
Saviour himself, will reappear upon earth. The per- 
son of the Father dwelt in Abraham, the person of 
the Son in Isaac, the person of the Holy Ghost in Sa- 
rah, but the fullness of the Deity in Eller. Moses, 
Elias, David, and Solomon were prototypes both of 
Christ and of Eller. The children of Anna were not 
the natural children of Eller, but begotten by God 
himself. The faithful, whose number had largely in- 
creased, were divided into three classes. To the first 
class belonged those who expressed belief, but were 
not yet made acquainted with all doctrines and secrets ; 
to the second those who, being initiated, were called in 
the congregations “Persons of Rank” (“ Standesper- 
sonen”); to the third, the most trustworthy among the 
initiated, who had reached the temple, and were called 
“ gifts” (Geschenke). The society believed that from 
Anna the Saviour would be born a second time, and 
there was therefore some dissatisfaction when her first 
child was a daughter. Her second child, born 1733, 
was a son, Benjamin, and he was believed by the sect 
to be the Saviour, manifested a second time in the flesh, 
but he died when only a year old. Eller, in the mean 
while, had sent out missionaries throughout Germany, 
Switzerland, and Scandinavia, but the investigations 
which in 1735 were made in Elberfeld concerning the 
meetings held by him induced him to depart in 1737, 
with his family, for Ronsdorf, his native place. Many 
of his adherents followed him immediately, and fifty 
new houses arose in Ronsdorf in a short time. The 
missionaries sent out by Eller collected large amounts 
of money for the new church to be built in Ronsdorf, 
and in 1741 Schleiermaeher was called as pastor. Eller 
himself was elected burgomaster, and soon established 
a theocratic despotism. His wife Anna died in 1744, 
in a mysterious manner, and Eller proclaimed that all 
the supernatural gifts which had been possessed by 
Anna had been transferred to him. But now Schleier- 
mucher began to lose his faith and even to oppose 
Eller, who, however, to neutralize the sermons of 
Schleiermaeher, caused one of his most fanatical ad- 
herents, Pastor Wtilfling, of Solingen, to be called as 
second pastor. In 1749 Eller married the widow of 
a rich merchant at Ronsdorf, Bosselmann, who had 
died under suspicious circumstances; and in the same 
year lie procured the removal of Schleiermaeher from 
his position of first pastor, and the election of Pastor 
Rudenhaus, of Ruttingen, who, since 1738, had been 
a fanatical adherent of the sect, as his successor. 
Schleiermaeher was, even after his departure from 
Ronsdorf, persecuted by Eller, who lodged with the 
government a formal charge of sorcery against him; 
and so great was still Eller’s influence, that Sehleier- 
maclier deemed it best to flee to Holland. Eller 
died on May 1G, 1750, and soon after him died also 
Wulffing. After the death of these two men the 
sect seems to have soon become extinct. Schleier- 
macher’s innocence was, chiefly owing to the efforts 
of his friend J.W. Knevel, fully established by the 


declarations of the theological faculties of Marburg 
and Herborn, and the Synod of Berg. This fanaticism 
singularly resembles that of the Buchanites (q. v.). 
See Herzog, Real-Encykiop. xx, GOG; Knevel, Griiuel 
d. Verwustung an hell. Statte od. d. Geheimnisse der Bos - 
heit d. Ronsdorf er Sekte (Frankf. 1750) ; W willing, 
Ronsdorjjischer Catechismus (Diisseldorf, 175G) ; Job. 
Bolekhaus (step-son of Eller), Ronsdorf 's gerechte 
Sache (Diisseldorf, 1757) ; Das jubelirende Ronsdorf 
(compiled by Wulffing, but edited by Bolekhaus, Miihl- 
beim, 1761); Wulffing, Ronsdorf' s silberne Trompete 
(Miihlheim, 1761); Engels, Versuch einer Gesch. d. relig. 
Schwarmerei irn ehemal. Ilerzogthum Berg (Sehwelm, 
1826) ; Flase, Ch. Hist. § 421. The Ilirtentasche may be 
found in the Jlistoire des Bedes Religieuses. (A. J. S.) 

Elierians. See Eller. 

Elliott, Arthur W., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Maryland in 1784 ; emigrated to 
Butler Co., Ohio, in 1805, and was converted in 1806. 
In 1818 be entered the itinerancy, and rapidly rose to 
eminence and usefulness. He filled many important 
charges in his Conference until his health failed, lie 
was supernumerary eight years, and superannuated 
seventeen during his ministry. In 1854 he removed 
to Paris, 111., where he died in January, 1858. Mr. 
Elliott had a “wonderful power over the multitude, 
and thousands of souls will call him blessed in eterni- 
ty.” — Minutes of Conferences , 1858, p. 296. 

Elliott, Charles. See p. 1042 of this vol. 

Elliott, John, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born at Killingworth, Conn., Aug. 24, 1768, grad- 
uated at Yale College 1786, entered the ministry 1791, 
and was installed pastor in East Guilford Nov. 2, 1791, 
in which place he remained until the close of his life, 
Dec. 17, 1824. Dr. Elliott was made fellow of Yale 
College 1812, and one of the prudential committee 1816. 
He published An Oration on the Death of Thomas Lewis 
(1804), and a few sermons. — Sprague, Annals, ii, 321. 

Elliott, Stephen, D.D., Protestant Episcopal 
bishop of the diocese of Georgia, was born in Beaufort, 
S. C., Aug. 31, 1806. At sixteen lie entered the sopho- 
more class at Harvard University, but returned during 
the junior year to South Carolina College, Columbia, 
where he graduated A.B. in 1825. In 1827 he engaged 
in the practice of law. “In 1832, under the pressure 
of a newly-awakend devotion to the cause of Christ, 
he abandoned his profession, and became a candidate 
for hoi}’ orders. He was ordained by bishop Boiven 
in 1835, served as deacon one month in the church at 
Wilton, and was then elected professor of sacred liter- 
ature and the evidences of Christianity in the South 
Carolina College. Five years later he was chosen first 
bishop of Georgia. He was consecrated in February, 
1841, removed to Savannah, and became rector of St. 
John’s Church. In 1844 he became provisional bish- 
op of Florida. In 1845 he removed to Montpellier, to 
direct in person the work of female education. Here 
he spent about seven years of his life, and, like many 
other bishops, expended his w hole fortune in the noble 
effort. In 1853 he removed to Savannah, and took 
charge of Christ Church in that city as rector. This 
office he continued to hold, w ith the exception of one 
brief interval, till his death. His numerous home du- 
ties did not hinder his visitation of his diocese at least 
once each year, often much more frequently. But 
two hours before his decease he had returned, in cheer- 
fulness and apparent health, from one of those long 
episcopal journeys. Instantly, not to him ‘suddenly,* 
in the midst of his labors, and at the height of hi3 
powder,” he died at his home in Savannah Dec. 21*. 
1806. — A mer. Quart. Church Review , April, 1867, aaA 
April, 1868. 

Ellis, Reuben, an early Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister. The dates of his early life are wanting. He 
was a native of North Carolina, entered the itinerancy 
in 1777, and died in Baltimore February, 1796. “lie 


ELLIS 


168 


ELLORA 


was a man of very sure and solid parts, weighty and 
powerful in preaching, and full of simplicity and god- 
ly sincerity.” — Minutes of Con ferences , i, 67 ; Stevens, 
History of Methodist Episcopal Church , p. 39 et al. 

Ellis, Robert Fulton, a Baptist minister, was 
horn at Topsliam, Me., Oct. 16, 1809; studied at Bow- 
doin College, and at Newton Theological Institution, 
where he graduated in 1838. He was pastor of the | 
Second Baptist Church in Springfield, Mass., from 
1838 to 1845. lie then spent two and a half years 
in the State of Missouri, preaehing, establishing Sun- 
day-schools, and furnishing them with libraries. In 
1847 he became pastor of the First Baptist Church of 
Alton, 111., but, becoming associate editor ofthe Western 
Watchman^ published at St. Louis, Mo., he again took 
an itinerant agency in that state, and, while thus em- 
ployed, he died, July 24, 1854.— Sprague, Annals , vi, 
827. 

Ellys, Anthony, bishop of St. David’s, was horn 
in 1693. He was educated at Clare Hall, Cambridge, 
where he took his master’s degree in 1716. In 1724 
lie was presented to the vicarage of St. Olave, Jewry, 
and to the rectory of St. Martin’s, Ironmonger’s Lane. 
In 1725 he obtained a prebend of Gloucester, and in 
1728 was created I).D. at Cambridge. He was next 
promoted to the bishopric of St. David’s, and died at 
Gloucester in 1761. His writings are as follows : 
1. .4 Plea for the Sacramental Text: — 2. Remains 
on Ilume's Essay concerning Miracles , and sermons 
preached on public occasions (4to) : — 3. Tracts on the 
Liberty , Spiritual and Temporal, of Protestants in En- 
gland (1767, 4 to) : — 4. Tracts on the Liberty , Spiritual 
and Temporal , of Subjects in England: the tv T o last- 
mentioned are collections of tracts, and form one great 
and elaborate work, which was the principal object of 
the bishop’s life. They w T ere published posthumously. 
— Hook, j C edes. Biography , vol. iv ; Kippis, Biogruphia 
Britannica, v, 581. 

Elm stands in the Auth.Vers. as the translation of 
Kbx, elaK , in IIos. iv, 13; elsewhere rendered “oak” 
(q. v.). | 

Elmo'clam (EXpioddp ; perhaps for I 


modad), son of Er and father of Cosam ; one of the an- 
cestors of Christ, in the private line of David, and 
great-grandfather of Maaseiah, the great-grandfather 
of Salathiel (Luke iii, 28). B.C. cir. 700. He is not 
mentioned in the Old Test. 

Elna'am [many El'naani] (Ileb. Elndam , tpAx 
[in pause Eysbx], God is his delight; Sept. ’E Xvaitfi 
v. r. ’EWadf. 1 , Vulgate Elnciem) father of Jeribai and 
Joshaviali, two of David’s distinguished warriors (1 
j Chron. xi,46). B.C. 1044. In the Sept, the second 
warrior is said to be the son of the first, and Elnaam 
: is given as himself a member of the guard. 

Elna'than [some El'natkan'] (Heb. Elnathan', 
"|rS2X, whom God has given ; compare John , Theodore , 
Diodati ), the name of four leading men. 

1. An inhabitant of Jerusalam, father of Nehnshta, 
the mother of king Jehoiachin (2 Kings xxiv, 8, Sept. 
, EA)'«o-3vrV v. r. ’EUai'A^aV). B.C. ante 598. He 
w r as perhaps the same with the son of Achbor, sent by 
Jehoiakim to bring the prophet Urijah out of Egypt 
(Jer. xxvi,’22, Sept. ’E-\ eaxdv'), and in w hose presence 
the roll of Jeremiah was read, for the preservation of 
which he interceded with the king (Jer. xxxvi, 12, 25, 
Sept. 'SaSctn v. r. Twi'«3wV). B.C. 605. 

2, 3, 4. (Sept. ’EXraSctp, Na3«j\ and ’EXroSoi' re- 
spectively). Three of the Israelites, of established 
prudence and integrity, sent by Ezra to invite the 
priests and Levites to accompany him to Jerusalem 
(Ezra viii, 16). B.C. 459. 

Ellora, a decayed town in the dominions of the 
Nizam, not far from the city of Dowlatabad, in lat. 20° 
2' N., and long. 75° 13' E. (This article is taken from 
Chambers’s Encyclopadia.') It is celebrated for its 
wonderful rock-cut temples. Their number has not 
been precisely ascertained, but Erskine reekoned 19 
large ones, partly of Hindu and part.ty of Buddhist ori- 
gin. Some are cave-temples proper — i. e. chambers 
cut out in the interior of the rock — but others are vast 
buildings hewn out of the solid granite of the hills, 
having an exterior as w T ell as an interior architecture, 
and being, in fact, magnificent monoliths. In execu- 
ting the latter, the process was first to sink a great 



Temple called Kailasa, at Ellora. From Fergusson’s Handbook of Architecture . 



ELOHIM 


169 


ELPHINSTOX 


quadrangular trench or pit, leaving the central mass 
standing, and then to hew and excavate this mass 
into a temple. The most beautiful of these objects is 
the Hindu temple Kailasa. At its entrance the trav- 
eler passes into an antechamber 138 feet wide by 88 
deep, adorned by numerous rows of pillars. Thence 
he proceeds along a colonnade over a bridge into a 
great rectangular court, which is 247 feet in length 
and 150 broad, in the centre of which stands the tem- 
ple itself, a vast mass of rock richly hewn and carved. 
It is supported by four rows of pilasters, with colossal 
elephants beneath, and seems suspended in the air. 
The interior is about 103 feet long, 50 broad, and 17 
high, but the entire exterior forms a pyramid 100 
feet high, and is overlaid with sculpture. In the 
great court are numerous ponds, obelisks, colonnades, 
sphinxes, and on the walls thousands of mythological 
figures of all kinds, from ten to twelve feet in height. 
Of the other temples, those of Indra and Dumarheyna 
are little inferior to that of Kailasa. Regarding their 
antiquity and religious significance, authorities arc not 
agreed; but at all events they must be subsequent to 
the epic poems Ramayana or Mahabharata, because 
they contain representations taken from these poems, 
and also to the cave-temples at Eleplianta, because 
they exhibit a richer and more advanced style of ar- 
chitecture. 

Eiohim is the Heb. plural ( Eiohim' , C^hbk), of 
which the sing, form, Elo'iih, is also employed 

to designate in general any deity, but likewise the 
true God. The word is derived, according to Gese- 
nius (77zes. Ileb . p. 94), from an obsolete root, 
alah , to revere; but is better referred by Fiirst (Jleb. 
Handle . p. 90) to the kindred bN [see El-], the name 
of God as mighty (from the extensive root nbx or 
Via , to bejirni ) ; and has its equivalent in the Arabic 
Allah , i. e. God. The plur. Eiohim is sometimes used 
in its ordinary sense of gods, whether true or false (e. 
g. of the Egyptians, Exod. xii, 12; xxxv, 2, 4 ; Deut. 
xx, 18 ; xxxii, 17 ; including Jehovah, Psa. lxxxvi, 8 ; 
Exod. xviii, 11; xxii, 19; or distinctively of actual 
deity, Isa. xliv, G; xlv, 5, 14, 21; xlvi, 9; 1 Chron. 
xiii, 9); once of kings (Psa. lxxxii, 1, G); but Gese- 
nius thinks not of angels (Psa. viii, G; xei, 7 ; cxxxviii, 
1), nor judges (Exod. xxi, G ; xxii, 7, 8). I3ut it is es- 
pecially spoken of one true God, i. e. Jehovah, and in 
this sense it is always construed as a sing., especially 
when it has the article prefixed (QVlPNri). See 
Suck, Commentatt. theol. hist. (Bonn, 1821), i ; Reinhard, 
He notione Dei , etc. (Vitemb. 1792); Edzard, Utrum 
“ Eiohim” a Canaanccis orig. ducet (ib. 1G9G) ; Michae- 
lis, Num Dens dicatur inito fjedere (ib. 1723); 

Sennert, Exercitt. philol. (ib. 1G78). Comp. God. 

Elollist, the name technically given in theology 
and sacred criticism to the assumed authors of those 
parts of the Pentateuch (q. v.) in which the Deity is 
styled Eloiiim rather than Jeiiovaii (q. v.). 

Elo'i' (tWt for Aramaean my God ), an ex- 

clamation quoted thus by our Saviour (Mark xv, 34) 
on the cross from Psa. xxii, 2 (where the Sept, has o 
S’too gov), for the Heb. "“X, which is more literally 
Grrccized r)\i, Eli, by Matthew (xxvi, 4G). 

E'lon, a name occurring in two forms in the Heb. 
(but both having the primitive sense of oak [q. v.]), 
as that of a place, and also of three men. 

1. (Heb. Eylon', < pb‘ 1 S<; Sept. ’EXah*.) A city of 
Dan, mentioned between Jethlah and Timnath (Josh, 
xix, 43) ; probably the same elsewhere (1 Kings iv, 9) 
more full}' called Elon-betii-iianan (q. v.). 

2. (Heb. Eylon ', ’(b^N and "pb^X ; Sept. 'E\aw and 
AiXog v. r. ’EX tog.) A Hittite, father of Bashemath 
(Gen. xxvi, 34) or Adah (Gen. xxxvi, 3), the first wife 
of Esau (q. v.). B.C. ante 19G3. 


3. (Heb. Elon', *]ibX; Sept. ’AXXwv and ’AXXwp v. 
r. ’Aopiov.) The second of the three sons of Zebu- 
Ion (Gen. xlvi, 14), and father of the family of the 
Elonites (Num. xxvi, 2G). B.C. 185G. 

4. (Heb. Eylon', "jib^X ; Sept. ’EXwn, Josephus 
’HXwp, Vulg. Ahialon.) A native of the tribe of Zebu* 
Ion (perhaps a descendant of the preceding), and the 
11th of the Hebrew judges for ten years (Judg. xii, 11, 
12), B.C. 1243-34; which are simply noted as a period 
of tranquillity (comp. Josephus, Ant. v, 7, 14). See 
J UDGES. 

Elon. See Oak. 

E'lon-beth-ha'nan [some E'lon-beth'hanari) 
(Heb. Eylon beytli-Chanan , ‘jjnTHB “pb*X, oak of 
Beth-hanan, i. e. of the house of Ilanan; Sept. ’EXwp 
[v. r. AiaXiog ] hoq Rifiavav. Vulg. Elon et in Beth- 
hanan ), one of the Danite eities in the commissary- 
district of Ben-Dekar, the third of Solomon’s purvey- 
ors (1 Kings iv, 9). It is simply called Elon in Josh, 
xix, 43, being probably a site marked from early times 
by a particular tree [see Oak] of traditional fame. 
For “Beth-hanan” some Hebrew MSS. have “ Ben- 
hanan,” and some “and Beth-hanan;” the latter is 
followed by the Vulgate. To judge from the order of 
the list in Joshua, its situation must have been on the 
border of Dan, between Ajalon and Ekron. Thenius 
suggests ( Exeg . llcindb. in loc.) that Beth-hanan can 
be no other than the village Beit-llunun , in the rich 
plain near Gaza (Robinson, Researches , ii, 371) ; but 
this is entirely out of the region in question. Possi- 
bly it may be the modern Beit-Susin , a “small vil- 
lage, looking old and miserable,” on a ridge near an 
ancient well, about half way between the sites of Ni- 
copolis and Zorali (Robinson, Later Researches, p.152). 

E'lonite (Ileb. with the art. and collectively, ha - 
Eloni ^'bxri; Sept, o ’AXXwi'i), the patronymic des- 
ignation (Num. xxvi, 2G) of the descendants of Elon 
(q. v.), tho son of Zebulon. 

Eloquence of the PuLriT. See Homiletics. 

E'lotll (Heb. Eyloth rib^X, trees; Sept. AiXaSr 
v. r. in Chron. AlXdg), another (plur.) form (1 Kings 
ix, 26 ; 2 Cliron. viii, 17 ; xxvi, 2) of the name of the 
city Elatii (q. v.). 

Elpa'al [many El'paal ] (Heb. Elpa'al, b:?B5X, in 
pause b^fibx, God is his wages; Sept. ’AXtfxmX and 
’EXtyadX), the second named of the two sons of Sliaha- 
raim (a descendant of Benjamin residing in the region 
of Moab) by bis wife Ilushim, and progenitor of a nu- 
merous posterity (1 Chron. viii, 13, 12, 18). B.C. eir. 
1G18. The Bene-Elpaal appear to have lived in the 
neighborhood of Lydda (Rod), and on the outposts of 
the Benjamite hills as far as Ajalon (viii, 12-18), near 
the Danite frontier. 

Elpa'let [many El'paJet] (Heb. E ? pe'let , 
in pause Elpa'let , -b B'b X ; Sept. ’EXt^aXcV v. r. ’EX<- 
tyaXift, Vulg. Eliphalctj, a contracted form (1 Chron. 
iv, 5) of the name Eliimialet (q. v.). 

Elpa'ran [many El'puran ] (Hebrew Eyl raran ', 
"pXB b^X, oak of Paran; Sept, g rtpsfiivSoij [v. r. 
repegi/iSoc] rijg <Papdv, Vulg. enmpestria Pharan), a 
spot (bounding on the south the territory of the Ue- 
phaim smitten by Chedorlaomer) on the edge of the 
wilderness bordering the territory of the Horites or Idu- 
maea, probably marked by a noted tree (Gen. xiv, G). 
See Oak ; Paran. An ingenious writer in the Jour, 
of Sac . Lit. (Oct. 1851, p. 153 note) argues, from tho 
rendering of the Sept., for the identity of El-parau with 
Elath , but inconclusively. 

Eiphegus. See Alpiiage. 

Elphinston, AVilliam, was horn at Glasgow in 
1431, studied in the university of that city, and obtain- 


ELPIS 


170 


ELUSA 


ed the rectory of Kirkmicliael. He subsequently was 
professor of civil and canon law at Paris and Orleans 
for nine years, and on his return (1471) was appointed 
rector of the University of Glasgow. lie afterwards 
became successively member of Parliament and of the 
Privy Council, ambassador of James III to France, 
and bishop of Ross, from whence lie was transferred to 
Aberdeen in 1484. As bishop of Aberdeen he was 
twice sent on a diplomatic mission to England. In 
1-188 he was for several months lord chancellor of the 
kingdom, and subsequently, on returning from an em- 
bassy to Germany, he was appointed to the office of 
lord privy seal, lie secured the foundation of the 
University at Aberdeen, for which pope Alexander VI 
gave a bull dated Feb. 10, 1494. King’s College was 
in consequence erected in 1506, and Elphinston con- 
tributed 10,0U0 pounds Scots towards it, and the build- 
ing of a bridge over the Dee. He died October 25th, 
1514, while negotiations were pending with the court 
of Rome for his elevation to the primacy of St. An- 
drew’s. He wrote a book of canons, the lives of some 
Scottish saints, and a history of Scotland, which is pre- 
served among Fairfax’s MSS. in the Bodleian Library. 
— llook, Eccks. Biography, vol. iv ; Oudin, Be Script. 
Becks, iii, 2670. 

Elpis ( E\t rig, hope), one of the wives of Herod the 
Great, who had by her and another wife Pha?dra two 
daughters, Roxana and Salome (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 1, 
3; liar, i, 28, 4). 

Elrington,TiiE Eight Rev. Thomas, lord bishop 
of Leighlin and Ferns, obtained a scholarship in the 
University of Dublin in 1778, and in 1781 v T as elected 
fellow. In 1794 he was appointed Donellan lecturer 
at his alma mater; in 1795, professor of mathematics, 
and in 1806, rector of Ardtree, in the county of Tyrone. 
In 1811 he was raised to the highest literary rank in 
Ireland by appointment as provost of Trinity College. 
This position he held with high credit to himself until 
1820, when he was consecrated bishop of Limerick. 
In 1822 he was transferred to the see of Leighlin and 
Ferns. He died in 1835. Besides editing several of 
the classics, he published his lectures delivered while 
Donellan lecturer : “ The proof of Christianity derived 
from the miracles recorded in the New r Testament,” 
under the title. Sermons preached in the Chapel of 
Trinity College, etc. (Dublin, 1796, 8vo): — Reflections on 
the Appointment of Dr. Milner as the Political Agent of 
the Roman Catholic Clergy in Ireland (1809, 8vo) : — The 
Clcrtpj of the Church of England truly ordained (1809, 
8vo), and a number of other polemical writings. — An- 
nual Biography and Obituary, xx (1836) ; Darling, Cy- 
clopedia Bibliographica, p. 1034-5. 

Eisner, Jacob, D.D.,was born at Saalfeld, Prus- 
sia, in March, 1692. He studied at the University of 
Kdnigsberg, and in 1715 became “ conrector” of the 
Reformed school in that city. Two years later he vis- 
ited Utrecht and Leyden. In 1720 lie was appoint- 
ed professor of theology and philology at Bingen ; in 
1722, rector and first professor of the Joachimsthal Gym- 
nasium at Berlin. Subsequently lie became pastor at 
one of the Berlin churches. From 1742 to 1744 he was 
director of the class of belles-lettres at the Royal So- 
ciety. He died Oct. 8, 1750. His principal works are : 
Observations sacra in novi foederis libros (Traj. 1720- 
1728,2 vols. Svo): — Comm, sacro-philologicns in evang. 
Matthm (Zwollre, 1767-69, 2 vols. 4to) : — Commentari- 
i is in evang. Marci (Traj. 1733, 4 to). — Darling, Cyclop. 
Biblit graphiea ; Docring, die gelehrten Theolog. Dcutsch- 
lands , i, 366 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. Giner. xv, 919. 

El'tekeh [some Elte'Jcch ] (Ilcb. Eltekeli ', 

God is itsycnr, i. c. object of awe ; but Elteke', 
in Josh, xxi, 23; Sept ’EA&jcJj v. r. 'A XSaxcc and i) 
‘EXtciojai/i, Vulg. Elthece and -Eltheco), a city in the 
tribe of Dan, apparently near the border, and men- 
tioned between Ekron and Gibbethon (Josh, xix, 44). 


With its “suburhs” it w r as assigned as a city of refuge 
and Lcvitical city to the Kohathites (Josh, xxi, 2o) ; 
hut it is omitted in the parallel list (1 Chron. vi). 1 he 
site is possibly now represented by El-Mansurah (‘ * the 
victorious”), “a miserable little village” near a copi- 
ous spring, in the plain between Kamleh and Akir 
(Robinson, Researches, iii, 21). Schwarz (Palest, p. 141) 
confounds Eltekeh with Eltekon, and locates both at a 
village which he calls “ Althini, not far from Beilin 
(Baalath).” 

El'tekon [some Eltekon ] (Heb. Eltekon , *jprf?N:, 
God is its foundation ; Sept. 'EAS^jcouv v. r. ’EXZrticiv 
and titKovp, Vulg. Eltecon), a city of Judah, in the 
mountain-district, mentioned last in order after Maar- 
ath and Beth-Anoth (Josh, xv, 59), being in the group 
north of Hebron (\\e\\,Coniment. in loc.). See Judaii. 
It is perhaps identical in site with the present Beit- 
Sahur el-Atikah , a little S.E. of Jerusalem. See El- 
TEKEii, It is perhaps the Altaqu mentioned in the 
Assyrian inscriptions. See Hezekiaii. 

Elto'lad [many El'tolad] (Heb. Eltolad' , ‘iV’rfpXj 
perhaps meaning God is its race or posterity; hut, ac- 
cording to Fiirst \IIebr. Ilandw. s. v.], whose God is 
Mylitta, the Phoenician deity [comp. Moladah]; Sept. 
’EA3 tocdd and ’EA3wA«c), v. r. 'E pfiiovddd and 'Ep3ou- 
A« ; Vulg. Eltholad ), a city in the south of Judah, men- 
tioned between Azem and Chesil (Josh, xv, 29), but 
afterwards assigned to Simeon, and mentioned be- 
tween Azem and Bethnl (Josh, xix, 4). It remained 
in possession of the latter tribe in the time of David 
(1 Chron. iv, 29, where it is called simply Tolad). It 
is possibly the ruined site Tell-Melaha, observed by 
Van do Velde (Memoir, p. 113) along the N. branch of 
wady Slieriah, which empties into the Mediterranean 
a little S. of Gaza. 

E'lul (Heb. Elvl' , Neh. vi, 15 ; Sept. 'EAoi'A, 
also in 1 Macc. xiv, 27 : the Macedonian PopTncnoe) 
is the name of that month which was the sixth of the 
ecclesiastical, and the twelfth of the civil year of the 
Jew's, and which began w ith the new' moon of our Au- 
gust or September, and consisted of 29 days. Several 
unsatisfactory attempts have been made to find a Svro- 
Arabian etymology for the w r ord, as it occurs in a sim- 
ilar form in both these languages (see Gesenius, Thes. 
llehr. p. 103C). The most recent derivation, that of 
Benfey, deduces it, through many commutations and 
mutilations, from an original Zend form hanrvatdt 
(Monatsnamen, p. 126). According to the Talmud, 
the following are the days devoted to leligious serv- 
ices. See Calendar. 

1. The new moon. The propitiatory prayers are com- 
menced in the evening service after the new moon. 

7 The festival of the dedication of the walls of Jerusalem 
by Nehemiah. 

17. A fast because of the death of the spies who brought up 
the evil report of the Land of Promise (Num. xiv, 36, 37). 

21. The festival of wood offering (Xyl ojdiona). Aeeording 
to others, this occurred during the previous month. 

22. A fast in memory of the punishment of the wicked and 
incorrigible Israelites. 

21b This is the last day of the month, on which the Jews 
reckoned up the beasts that bad been born, the tenths of 
which belonged to God. They chose to do it on this day be- 
cause the first day of the month Tisri was a festival, and 
therefore they could not tithe a fioek on that day. 

Elusa ("EAonrrtt, apparently for the Aramaean 
PlS^n ; see Jerome, Comment, in Esa. xv, 4), an an- 
cient city of Idumaea, frequently mentioned by writers 
of the fourth to the sixth centuries (see the citations 
in Reland, Palcrst. p. 755-7) as an episcopal city of 
the Third Palestine (Concil. Gen. iii, 448); the Elysa of 
the Pentinger Table, 71 Roman miles S. of Jerusalem 
(Ritter, Erdk. xiv, 120); recognised by Dr. Robinson 
(Bib. Res. i, 296 sq.) as the present ruins cl-Khulaseh, 
5 hours S.S.AV. of Hebron on the way to Egypt, and 
consisting of w'alls, a fine well, and inclosures suffi- 
cient to have contained a population of 15,000 or 20,000 


ELYMAIS 


ELUZAI 171 


persons (see also Stewart, Tent and Khan , p. 205). See 
also Chellus. 

Elu'zai (Heb. Eluzay God is my praises , 
i. e. object of praise ; Sept. ’EX«o£i v. r. 'A£m, Vulg. 
Eluzai ), one of the Benjamite warriors who joined Da- 
vid at Ziklag (1 Chron. xii, 5). B.C. 1054. 

Elvira, Council of ( Concilium Eliberitanum or 
Illiberitanum), held in the town of Elvira (or Illiberis, 
Iliberi, or Liberini), in the Spanish province of Baeti- 
ca. The town, which no longer exists, was situated 
not far from the modern Granada. That it was not 
Illiberis, in Gallia Narbonensis, is shown by the fact 
that all the signers were Spanish bishops. The coun- 
cil was most probably held at the beginning of the 
fourth century, but the year (303, 305, 309) is uncer- 
tain. Some of the early Protestant writers (as the au- 
thors of the Magdeburg Centuries ) inferred, from the 
resolutions concerning pictures and the lighting of 
candles, that the synod took place as late as the year 
700 ; but this opinion has now been abandoned. The 
Synod of Elvira is the most ancient among those of 
which all the canons (eighty-one) are extant. It was 
attended by nineteen bishops, among them Hosius of 
Cordova, and twenty-six priests. Some of the canons 
show that the Church of Spain was at that time strong- 
ly under the influence of Novatian and Montanist 
principles. The most important of the resolutions 
were, 1, depriving of communion, i. e. of absolution, 
even in death, those who, after baptism, have volun- 
tarily sacrificed to idols ; 3, relaxing the penalty in can- 
on 1 in favor of those who have not gone beyond offer- 
ing a present to the idol. It allows of admitting such 
to communion at the point of death, if they have under- 
gone a course of penance ; canons G and 7 fo.bid com- 
munion even at the point of death to those who have 
caused the death of another maliciously, and to adul- 
terers who have relapsed after entering upon the course 
of penance ; 12 and 13 forbid communion even in 
death to mothers who prostitute their own daughters, 
and to women who, after consecrating themselves in 
virginity to God, forsake that state; 33 prohibits the 
clergy from the use of marriages ; 34 prohibits the 
lighting of candles during daytime in cemeteries, “for 
the spirits of the saints must not be disturbed 3G 
declares that pictures ought not to be in a church, lest 
the object of veneration and worship be depicted upon 
walls ; G3 and G4 forbid communion even in death to 
adulteresses who have wilfully destroyed their chil- 
dren, or who abide in a state of adultery up to the 
time of their last illness; G5 forbids communion even 
iu death to one who has falsely accused of a crime a 
bishop, priest, or deacon. The canons may be found in 
Mansi, ii, 2 sq., and in Routh, Reliquue , vol. iv. Spe- 
cial treatises on the canons were written b} r the bishop 
Ferdinand de Mendoza (De Confirmando concil. Illibe- 
ritano. in Mansi, 1. c.), and bishop Aubespine of Or- 
leans (Mansi, 1. c.). The canons, together with some 
explanatory remarks, may also be found in the Tubin- 
gen Theolog. Quartalschrift , 1821, p. 1-44. — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. iii, 775; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. 
iii, 543; Gams, Kirckengesch. von Spanien; Hefele, Con- 
ciliengeschiehte , i, 122 sq. (A. J. S.) 

Elxai, EIxaites. See Elkesaites. 

Ely, Ezra Stiles, D.D., a Presbyterian (O. S.) 
minister, was born in Lebanon, Conn., June 13, 178G. 
At tv/elve years of age he made a profession of relig- 
ion. ITe graduated at Yale College in 1803. His 
theological studies were pursued under his father, the 
Rev. Z. Ely. In 1806 he was ordained, and installed 
as pastor of the church in Colchester, Conn., which he 
left some time after to become chaplain to the New 
York City Hospital. In 1811 the Old Pine Street 
Church, Philadelphia, became vacant. Its pulpit had 
been filled by the most eloquent ministers of the day, 
and it was necessary to choose a man of commanding 


intellect and power. The choice fell most wisely upon 
Dr. Ely. He entered upon his field of labor with ear- 
nestness and zeal. He was the principal founder of 
the Jefferson Medical College, lie was stated clerk 
and moderator of the General Assembly in 1825 and 
1828, and was constantly engaged in works of charity 
and schemes of benevolence. In 1834 lie conceived 
the plan of establishing a college and theological sem- 
inary in Missouri. He entered into this with great 
zeal, and for a while with success, but the crisis of 1887 
made it a failure. In this enterprise he lost his large 
fortune, and returned to Philadelphia a poor man — his 
intellect and oratorical powers unimpaired — but failed 
to receive that degree of attention he commanded when 
in affluence. In 1844 he became pastor of the church 
in Northern Liberties, Philadelphia, where he labored 
until prostrated by paralysis in 1851. He lingered 
ten years, his intellect being so impaired as to preclude 
activity of any kind. He died June 18, 1861. He 
published Memoirs of the Rev. Z. Ely (his father) : — 
Collateral Bible , or Key to the Holy Scriptures (in con- 
nection with Bedell and M‘Corkle): — Ely's Journal: 
— Sermons on Faith: — Visits of Mercy. He was also 
editor of The Philadelphian. — Wilson, Fresh . Ilistoncal 
Almanac , 18G2. 

Ely, so called from a Saxon word, elig , an eel, or 
helig , a willow', a cathedral town in that part of the 
fen country of Cambridgeshire called the,7$/e of Ely. 
Pop. about G000. 

Ely Cathedral. — About the year 673, Etheldreda, 
daughter of the king of East Anglia, and wife of Os- 
wy, king of Northumberland, founded a monastery 
I here, and took on herself the government of it. A 
new church was begun in 1081, which was converted 
! into a cathedral, and the abbey erected into a see in 
i 1109. The possessions of the abbey were divided be- 
tween the bishop and the comm tin it}'. Among the 
I celebrated names connected with Ely are abbot Thurs- 
tan, who defended the isle against William the Con- 
queror for seven years, and bishop Andrews. The 
bishops of Ely, like the bishops of Durham, formerly 
enjoyed a palatine jurisdiction, and appointed their 
ow n chief justice, etc., but this privilege v'as taken 
from them by the Gth and 7th William IY. The bish- 
op of Ely is visitor to St. Peter’s, St.John’s, and Jesus 
colleges, Cambridge, of which last he also appoints the 
master. There is a grammar-school attached to the 
cathedral, founded by Henry VIII. The diocese of 
Ely belongs to the province of Canterbury, and em- 
braces Cambridgeshire, Bedfordshire, Huntingdon- 
shire, and the archdeacon^ of Sudbury, in Suffolk. 
The income of the bishop is £5500. Present (18G8) 
incumbent is Edward Harold Browne. The diocese 
has 26 deaneries and 172, 2G3 church sittings. The 
total population within the territory of the diocese was, 
in 1863, 480, 71G. — Chambers, Encyclop. s. v. ; Church- 
man's Calendar for 18G8. 

Elymae'an (’EXi’/mlocXthe Grsscized form (Judith 
i, 6) of the designation usually Anglicized Elamite 
(q. v.). 

Elyma'i’s (’EXu/mit;), a general designation (To- 
bit ii, 10) of that province of the Persian empire (see 
Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v.) termed Elam (q. v.) 
in the Bible. In 1 Macc. vi, 1, however, the word is 
used (incorrectly) in a more specific or local sense of 
some Persian city, as we are there informed that An- 
tiochns Epiphancs, understanding there were very 
great treasures in the temple at Elymais, determined 
to plunder it; but the citizens resisted him success- 
fully. 2 Macc. ix, 2 calls this city Pcrsepolis , probably 
because it formerly had been the capital of Persia ; for 
Persepolis and Elymais were very different cities; the 
former situated on the Araxes, the latter on the Eulse- 
us. The temple which Antiochus designed to pillage 
was that of the goddess Nanmea, according to 2 Macc. 
i, 13 ; Appian says (Syr. p. 6G) a temple of Venus (i. e. 


ELYMAS 


172 


EMBALM 


probably the goddess Anubis); Polybius (xxxi, 11), 
Diodorus, Josephus (Ant. xii, 9, 1), and Jerome say a 
temple of Diana. See Antiociius (Eimphanes). 

El'ymas (’EAi'/mt;), an appellative commonly de- 
rived from the Arabic A liman (“ a icise man ,” see 
Pfeifler, JJubia vex. p. 911 ; like the Turkish title Ule- 
ma, see Lakemacher, De Khjma Mago , in bis Observatt. 
ii, 102), which Luke interprets by 6 pciyog, the Magian 
or “sorcerer:” it is applied to a Jew named Bak-Je- 
sus, who had attached himself to the proconsul of Cy- 
prus, Sergius Paulus, when Paul visited the island 
(Acts xiii, 0 sq.). A.D. 44. On his attempting to 
dissuade the proconsul from embracing the Christian 
faith, he was struck with miraculous blindness by the 
apostle (see Neander’s History of first Planting of the 
Christian Church , i, 125). A very different but less 
probable derivation of the word is given by Lightfoot 
in his Hebrew and Talmudical Exercitations on the Acts 
(IFor/rs, viii, 4G1), and in his Sermon on Elymas the 
Sorcerer (Works, vii, 104). Chrysostom observes, in 
reference to the blindness indicted by the apostle on 
Bar-Jesus, that the limiting clause, “for a season ,” 
shows that it was not intended so much for the pun- 
ishment of the sorcerer as for the conversion of the 
deputy (Chrysost. in Acta A post, llotnil. xxviii ; Opera , 
ix, 241). On the practice generally then pre vailing, 
in the decay of faith, of consulting Oriental impostors 
of this kind, see Conybeare and Howson, Life of St. 
Paul , i, 177-180, 2d ed. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See 
Magic. 

El'zabad [some Elza'bad'] (Heb. Elzabad ' , ‘iSTbtf, 
whom God has bestoiced , i. q. Theodore ; Sept. 'EAt£n- 
(Sdc and 'E \Zaf3dd, v. r. EA and ’EA £«/3a$), the 
name of two men. 

1. The ninth of the eleven Gadite heroes who joined 
David in his fastness in the wilderness of Judah (1 
Chron. xii, 12) B.C. 10G1. 

2. One of the able-bodied sons of Shemaiah, the son 
of Obed-cdom the Levite ; he served as a porter to the 
“house of Jehovah” under David (1 Chron. xxvi, 7). 
B.C. 1014. 

El'zapban [some Elza' phan ] (Ileb. Eltsaphan' , 
*j5i;bx), a contracted form (Exod. vi, 22; Lev. x, 4) 
of the name Elizapiian (q. v.). 

Emanation (Latin emanatio , a flowing forth), a 
religious theory concerning the relation of the uni- 
verse to the Deity, which lies at the basis of some of 
the Oriental religions, and from them found its way 
into several philosophical systems. Emanation denotes 
a development, descending by degrees, of all things 
from the Supreme Being, the universe constituting in 
genera], as well as in particular, a chain of revelations, , 
the individual rings of which lose the divine character 
the more the farther they are remote from the primary , 
source, the Deity. A system of emanation is different ! 
from a system of evolution, because in the latter the 
revelation of the Deity in the universe has for the De- 
ity itself the signification of a process of self-cognition 
which grows in a progressive ratio. Emanation vras 
the basis of the religions of India, in the northern prov- 
inces of which country it developed from the original 
religion of nature even before the compilation of the 
Vedas. The cause of all things was found in a univer- 
sal world-soul. See Anima Muxdi. The world-soul 
was identified with Brahma, and, viewed as the eternal 
spiritual unit, the mysterious source of all life. The 
ancient gods were explained as the first rays of Brah- 
ma, whom he had constituted the guardians of the 
wo- Id. The creation was an emanation from Brahma, 
which became the more gross, dense, materialized, the 
farther it removed from the primitive source. Those 
who give themselves up to the corporeal world, sink 
deeper and deeper, and only rise again upward when > 
purified by the fire of hell ; but those w ho renounce ] 
all sensuality, and direct all their thoughts to the one i 


divine substance, are gradually absorbed by it. The 
religion of the Parsees is also based upon emanation. 
From the Zeniane akherene (the uncreated one), Or- 
muzd and Ahriman proceed as the highest revelation. 
From Ormuzd and Ahriman all other substances em- 
anate, from the ministering angels down to the beings 
of the material world. But the Persians did not teach, 
like the Indians, a self-destruction of personality for 
the purpose of obtaining a reunion with the original 
unit; in the Parsee system the good is perfected and 
completed by overcoming the bad, and the series of 
the imperfect emanations is closed by a reunion of Ah- 
riman with Ormuzd. In the Western countries. Plato 
is the first in whose writings we find, though not yet 
distinctly, traces of the doctrine of emanation. More 
developed, it appears in the writings of Philo. It is a 
prominent feature of the Neoplatonic school, and 
through Valentinus (q. v.) it was introduced into the 
Gnostic schools. Finally, it is to be found in the phi- 
losophy of the Arabs, which was more or less an Aris- 
totelism mixed with Neoplatonic views. — Wetzer u. 
Welte, Kirehcn-Lex. iii, 548; Moller, Gcsch. der Kos - 
mologie in der griech. Kirche bis auf Origenes (Halle, 
18G0) ; Neander, Ch. Hist. vol. i. (A. J. S.) 

Emancipation. 1. In the Boman Church, Eman- 
cipalio canonicarum is the raising of some member of 
a convent to an ecclesiastical dignity, by virtue of 
which he is no longer subject to his former superior. 
The Emancipatio eanonica is the release of a young 
canon from the obligation of visiting the foundation 
school when about to receive a prebend. 2. The term 
is also used to denote the act whereby a government 
or Legislature delivers from a state of slavery, or sets at 
political liberty , any classes of persons who have previ- 
ously been declared ineligible for certain offices or priv- 
ileges, on account of their religious peculiarities, e. 
g. emancipation of Jew's in Christian countries (see 
Jew’s); Boman Catholic emancipation in 1829 in Eng- 
land (see Tests). 3. The freeing of slaves from bond- 
age (see Slavery). 

Embalm (-2H, chanat' , to spice ; hence spoken of 
the ripening of fruit, on account of its aromatic juice, 
improperly rendered “putteth forth” in Cant, ii, 13), 
the process of preserving a corpse by means of aro- 
matics (Gen. 1, 2, 3, 2G ; Sept. ivraepidZid). This art 
Avas practised among the Egyptians from the earliest 
times, and arrived at great perfection in that coun - 
try, where, however, it has now' become lost, the prac- 
tice apparently having gradually fallen into disuse in 
consequence of the change of customs affected by the 
introduction of Christianity in that part of the Boman 
empire. It is in connection with that country that 
the above instances occur, and later examples (2 
Chron. xvi, 14 ; John ix, C9, 40) seem to have been in 
imitation of the Egyptian custom. The modern meth- 
od of embalming is in essential points similar. 

1. Egyptian. — 1. The feeling which led the Egyp- 
tians to embalm the dead probably sprang from their 
belief in the future reunion of the soul with the body. 
Such a reunion is distinctly spoken of in the Book of 
the Dead (Lepsius, Todtenbuch, chap. 89 and passim'), 
and Herodotus expressly mentions the Egyptian be- 
lief in the transmigration of souls (ii, 123). This lat- 
ter idea may have led to the embalming of lower ani- 
mals also, especially those deemed sacred, as the ox, 
the ibis, and the cat, mummies of which are frequent. 
The actual process is said to have been derived from 
“their first merely burying in the sand, impregnated 
with natron and other salts, which dried and preserved 
the body” (Bawlinson, llerod . ii, 122). Drugs and bi- 
tumen were of later introduction, the latter not being 
generally employed before the 18th dynasty. When 
the practice ceased entirely is uncertain. 

2. Herodotus (ii, 8G-89) describes three modes, vary- 
ing in completeness and expense, and practised by per- 
sons regularly trained to the profession, who w'ere in- 


EMBALM 


173 


EMBALM 


itiated into the mysteries of the art by their ancestors. 
The most costly mode, which is estimated by Diodorus 
Siculus (i, 91) at a talent of silver (over $1000), was 
said by the Egyptian priests to belong to him whose 
name in such a matter it was not lawful to mention, 
viz. Osiris. The embalmers first removed part of the 
brain through the nostrils by means of a crooked iron, 
and destroyed the rest by injecting caustic drugs. An 
incision was then made along the flank with a sharp 
Ethiopian stone, and the whole of the intestines re- 
moved. The cavity was rinsed out with palm-wine, 
and afterwards scoured with pounded perfumes. It 
was then filled vuth pure myrrh pounded, cassia, and 
other aromatics, except frankincense. This done, the 
body w r as sewn up and steeped in natron for seventy 
days. When the seventy days were accomplished, the 
embalmers washed the corpse and swathed it in band- 
ages of linen, cut in strips and smeared with gum. 
They then gave it up to the relatives of the deceased, 
who provided for it a wooden case, made in the shape 
of a man, in which the dead was placed, and deposited 
in an erect position against the wall of the sepulchral 
chamber. Diodorus Siculus gives some particulars of 
the process which are omitted by Herodotus. When 
the body was laid out on the ground for the purpose of 
embalming, one of the operators, called the scribe 
(ypanfia-nve), marked out the part of the left flank 
where the incision was to he made. The dissector 
(j 7 rcip(HJ\io'TJjQ) then, with a sharp Ethiopian stone 
(black flint, or Ethiopian agate, Rawlinson, Herod, ii, 
121), hastily cut through as much flesh as the law en- 
joined, and fled, pursued by curses and volleys of 
stones from the spectators. When all the embalmers 
( rapi\evrat ) were assembled, one of them extracted 
the intestines, with the exception of the heart and kid- 
neys ; another cleansed them one by one, and rinsed 
them in palm-wine and perfumes. The body was then 
washed with oil of cedar, and other things worthy of 
notice, for more than thirty days (according to some 
MSS. forty), and afterwards sprinkled with myrrh, 
cinnamon, and other substances, which possess the 
property not only of preserving the body for a long 
period, but also of communicating to it an agreeable 
smell. This process was so effectual that the features 
of the dead could be recognised. It is remarkable 
that Diodorus omits all mention of the steeping in na- 
tron. Porphyry (Z)e Abst. iv, 10) supplies an omission 
of Herodotus, who neglects to mention what was done 
with the intestines after they were removed from the 
body. In the case of a person of respectable rank they 
were placed in a separate vessel and thrown into the 
river. This account is confirmed by Plutarch (Sept. 
Sap. Conv. c. 1C). 

The second mode of embalming cost about 20 minaj. 
In this case no incision was made in the body, nor 
were the intestines removed, but cedar-oil was injected 
into the stomach by the rectum. The oil was pre- 
vented from escaping, and the body was then steeped 
in natron for the appointed number of days. On the 
last day the oil was withdrawn, and carried off with it 
the stomach and intestines in a state of solution, while 
the flesh was consumed by the natron, and nothing 
was left but the skin and bones. The body in this 
state was returned to the relatives of the deceased. 

The third mode, which was adopted by the poorer 
classes, and cost but little, consisted in rinsing out the 
intestines with syrmasa, an infusion of senna and cas- 
sia (Pettigrew, Hist, of Mummies, p. G9), and steeping 
the body for the usual number of days in natron. 

Although the three inodes of embalming are so pre- 
cisely described by Herodotus, it has been found im- 
possible to classify the mummies which have been dis- 
covered and examined under one or other of these 
three heads. Pettigrew, from his own observations, 
confirms the truth of Herodotus’s statement that the 
brain was removed through the nostrils. Hut in many 
instances, in which the body was carefully preserved 


and elaborately ornamented, the brain had not been 
removed at all, while in some mummies the cavity 
was found to he filled with resinous and bituminous 
matter. M. Ronyer, in his Notice sur les Embaume- 
ments des Anciens Egyptiens (Description de VEgypte, p. 
471), endeavored to class the mummies which he ex- 
amined under two principal divisions, which were 
again subdivided into others. These were, I. Mum- 
mies with the ventral incision, preserved, 1, by bal- 
samic matter, and, 2, by natron. The first of these are 
filled with a mixture of resin and aromatics, and are 
of an olive color — the skin dry, flexible, and adhering 
to the bones. Others are filled with bitumen or as- 
plialtum, and are black, the skin hard and shining. 
Those prepared with natron are also filled with resin- 
ous substances and bitumen. II. Mummies without 
the ventral incision. This class is again subdivided., 
according as the bodies were, 1, salted and filled with 
pisasphalturn, a compound of asphaltum and common 
pitch ; or, 2, salted only. The former are supposed to 
have been immersed in the pitch when in a liquid 
state. The medicaments employed in embalming 
w r ere various. From a chemical analysis of the sub- 
stances found in mummies, M. Rouclle detected three 
modes of embalming: 1, with asphaltum , or Jew^’s 
pitch, called also funeral gum, or gum of mummies; 2, 
with a mixture of asphaltum and eedria, the liquor dis- 
tilled from the cedar ; 3, with this mixture, together 
with some resinous and aromatic ingredients. The 
pow’dered aromatics mentioned by Herodotus were not 
mixed with the bituminous matter, but sprinkled into 
the cavities of the body. Pettigrew supposes that af- 
ter the spicing “the body must have been subjected 
to a very considerable degree of heat; for the resinous 
and aromatic substances have penetrated even into 
the innermost structure of the bones, an effect w hich 
could not have been produced without the aid of a 
high temperature, and which w r as absolutely necessary 
for the entire preservation of the body” (p. 62). M. 
Rouver is of the same opinion (p. 471). The surface 
of the body was in one example covered with “a coat- 
ing of the dust of woods and barks, nowdierc less than 
one inch in thickness,” which “had the smell of cin- 
namon or cassia” (Pettigrew, p. G2, G3). At this same 
stage plates of gold were sometimes applied to portions 
of the body, or even its whole surface. Before en- 
wrapping, the body w'as always placed at full length, 
with no variety save in the position of the arms. 

The principal embalming material in the more cost- 
ly mummies appears to have been asphalt, either alone 
or mixed with a vegetable liquor, or so mixed with the 
addition of resinous and aromatic ingredients. Petti- 
grew' supposes resinous matters were used as a kind of 
varnish for the body, and that pounded aromatics w r ere 
sprinkled in the cavities within. The natron, in a so- 
lution of which the mummies w’ere placed in every 
method, appears to have been a fixed alkali. It might 
be obtained from the Natron Lakes and like places in 
the Libyan desert. Wax has also been discovered 
(Pettigrew r ’s History , p. 75 sq.). 

3. The embalming having been completed, the body 
was wrapped in bandages. There has been much dif- 
ficulty as to the material ; but it seems certain that 
linen was invariably used. Though always long, they 
vary in this respect; and we know no authenticated 
instance of their exceeding 700 yards, though much 
greater measures are mentioned. The width is also 
very various, but it is generally not more than seven 
or eight inches. The quantity of cloth used is best 
ascertained from the weight. The texture varies, in 
the cases of single mummies, the coarser material be- 
ing always nearer to the body. The bandages are 
found to have been saturated with asphalt, resin, gum, 
or natron ; but the asphalt has only been traced in 
those nearest the body : probably the saturation is due 
to the preparation of the mummies, and does not indi- 
cate any special preparation of the clothes. The beau- 


EMBALM 


174 


EMBALM 



Swathing a Mummy. (From the Egyptian Monuments.) 


ty of the bandaging has been the subject of great ad- 
miration. The strips were very closely bound, and 
all directions were adopted that could carry out this 
object. Pettigrew is of opinion that they were cer- 
tainly applied wet. Various amulets and personal or- 
naments are found upon mummies and in their wrap- 
pings ; the former were thought to be of use to the 
soul in its wanderings, and they were placed with the 
body from the belief in the relation between the two 
after death. With these matters, and the other par- 
ticulars of Egyptian mummies, we have little to do, as 
our object is to show how far the Jewish burial-usages 
may have been derived from Egypt. The body in the 
cases of most of the richer mummies, when bandaged, 
has been covered with what has been termed by the 
French a cartonage , formed of layers of cloth, plaster- 
ed with lime on the inside. The shape is that of a 


body of which the arms and legs are not distinguish- 
able. In this shape every dead person who had, if we 
may believe Diodorus, been judged by a particular 
court to be worthy of the honor of burial, was consid- 
ered to have the form of Osiris, and was called by his 
name. It seems more probable, however, that the tri- 
bunal spoken of was that of Amenti, “ the hidden,” the 
Egyptian Hades, and that the practice of embalming 
was universal. The cartonage of the more costly mum- 
mies is generally beautifully painted with subjects con- 
nected with Amenti. Mummies of this class are in- 
closed in one or even two wooden cases, either of .syca- 
more, or, rarely, of cedar. The mummies of royal and 
very wealthy persons were placed in an outer stone 
case, within which there was a wooden case, and, prob- 
ably, sometimes two such cases. See Mummy. It 
would seem that the features of the face, as well as the 
other parts of the body, were covered over with the 
bandage, and that it was only through this, and latter- 
ly through the eoflin, which commonly todk the form 
of the features, that these could be recognised. 





The Mummy’s Head, as seen at an open panel of the Coffin. 

(From the Monuments.) 

IT. Uebrceo-Egyplian . — The records of the embalm- 
ing of Jacob and Joseph are very brief. In the former 
case we read, “And Joseph commanded his servants 
the physicians to embalm his father : and the physi- 
cians embalmed Israel. And forty days were fulfilled 
for him ; for so are fulfilled the days of embalming : 
and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and 
ten days” (Gen. 1, 2, 3). Of Joseph we are only told 
that “they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin 
in Egypt” (ver. 26). Tt should be remarked, that in 
Joseph’s case the embalming must have been thorough, 
as Moses at the Exodus carried his body into Canaan. 
The motive of embalming in these instances was evi- 
dently that the strong desire of these patriarchs to he 
buried in the Land of Promise might be complied with, 
although, had this not been so, respect would probably 
have led to the same result. That the physicians were 
employed by Joseph to embalm his father may 
mean no more than the usual emhalmers, who 
must have had medical and surgical knowledge, 
but it is not unlikely that the kings and high of- 
ficers were embalmed by household physicians. 
The periods of forty days for embalming, and sev- 
enty for mourning, are not easily reconciled with 
the statement of Herodotus, who specifies seventy 
da} 7 s as the time that the body remained in natron. 
Hengstenberg ( Egypt and the Books of J foses, p. 
60) attempts to reconcile this discrepancy by sup- 
posing that the seventy days of Herodotus include 
the whole time of embalming, and not that of 
steeping in natron only. But the differences in 
detail which characterize the descriptions of He- 
rodotus and Diodorus, and the impossibility of rec- 
onciling these descriptions in all points with the 
results of scientific observation, lead to the natural 
conclusion that, if these descriptions are correct in 
themselves, they do not include every method of 
embalming which was practised, and that, conse- 
quently, any discrepancies between them and the Bi- 
ble narrative cannot fairly he attributed to a want 
of accuracy in the latter. Perhaps the periods va- 
ried in different ages, or the forty days may not in- 
clude the time of steeping in natron. Diodorus Sic- 
ulus, who, having visited Egypt, is scarcely likely 
to have been in error in a matter necessarily well 
known, speaks of the anointing of the body at first 
with oil of cedar and other things for above thirty or 
forty days i/fiepag 7r\etovg run* Tpidnorra ; some 
MSS. TEtToapaKovTct). This period would correspond 
very well with the forty days mentioned in Genesis, 
which are literally “the days of spicing,” and indicate 
that the latter denoted the most essential period of em- 
balming. Or, if the same period as the seventy days 
of Herodotus be meant by Diodorus, then there would 
appear to have been a change. It may be worth no- 
ticing, that Herodotus, when first mentioning the steep- 
ing in natron, speaks of seventy days as the extreme 
time to which it might be lawfully prolonged (rgdoag 
ificopgKQvra ‘ tt Xevvag tt tqvteojv ovk rapix&v- 



Painting the Civrtanayr. or Mummy-case. (From the 
Mouuments.) 


EMBALM 


175 


EMBER WEEKS 


civ), that (according to Pettigrew, p. Gl) “ appearing 1 tom, which, however, was very different in all else that 
to he precisely the time necessary for the operation of t relates to the disposal of the corpse. See Bukial. 


to be precisely the time necessary for the operation 
the alkali on the animal fibre.” This would seem 
to render it possible that the seventy days in the 
time of Herodotus was the period of mourning, as 
it was not to be exceeded in what appears to have 
been the longest operation of embalming. The 
division of the seventy days mentioned in Gen- 
esis into forty and thirty may be suggested if 
we compare the thirty days’ mourning for Moses 
and for Aaron, in which case the seventy days in 
this instance might mean until the end of seventy 
days. It is also to be remarked that Diodorus speaks 
of the time of mourning for a king being seventy- 
two days, apparently ending with the day of bur- 
ial (i, 72). Joseph's coffin was perhaps a stone case, 
as his mummy was to be long kept ready for re- 
moval. See Coffin. 

III. Jewish . — It is not until long after the Exodus 
that we find any record of Jewish embalming, and then 
we have, in the O. T., but one distinct mention of the 
practice. This is in the case of king Asa, whose burial 
is thus related : “ And they buried him in his own sep- 
ulchres, which he had digged for himself in the city 
of David, and laid him in the bed [or rather “ coffin,” 
not “bier”] which he had filled [or “which was filled”] 
with perfumes and spices compounded by the apothe- 
caries’ art ; and they made for liim an exceeding great 
burning” (2 Chron. xvi, 14). The burning is men- 
tioned of other kings of Judah. From this passage 
it seems that Asa had prepared a bed, probably a 
sarcophagus, filled with spices, and that spices were 
also burnt at his burial. In the accounts of our Sa- 
viour’s burial the same or similar customs appear to be 
indicated, but fuller particulars are given. We read 
that Nicodemus “brought a mixture of myrrh and 
aloes, about an hundred pound [weight].” The body 
they wound “in linen clothes with the sweet spices, 
as the manner of the Jews is to prepare for burial” 
(John xix, 89, 40). Mark specifies that fine clothes 
were used (xv, 46), and mentions that the women who 
came to the sepulchre on the morning of the resurrec- 
tion “had bought sweet spices, that they might come 
and anoint him” (xvi, 1). Luke relates that the 
women went to see the sepulchre. “Aud they re- 
turned, and prepared sweet spices and ointments’’ 
(xxiii, 5G). Immediately afterwards he speaks of 
their “bringing the sweet spices which they had pre- 
pared” (xxiv, 1) on the second day after. Our Lord 
himself referred to the use of ointment in burial-cere- 
monies (jrpoQ to tvTci(t>idZ siv) “ for the preparation for 
burial,” when he commended the piety of the woman 
who had anointed his head with “ very precious oint- 
ment” (Matt, xxvi, G-13), and spoke in like manner 
in the similar case of Mary, the sister of Lazarus (John 
xii, 3-8). The customs at this time would seem to 
have been to anoint the body and wrap it in fine linen, 
witli spices and ointments in the folds, and afterwards 
to pour more ointment upon it, and perhaps also to 
burn spices. In the case of our Saviour, the hurried 
burial and the following of the Sabbath may have 
caused an unusual delay. Ordinarily everything was 
probably completed at once. 

Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus speak of the use of 
myrrh in Egyptian embalming, but we do not find any 
mention of aloes. The wrapping in fine linen is rather 
contrary to the Egyptian practice than like it, when 
we remember that the coarser mummy-bandages are 
those which immediately enfold the body, and would 
best correspond to the clothes used by the Jews. 

The Jewish custom has therefore little in common 
with the Egyptian. 1 1 was, however, probably intend- 
ed as a kind of embalming, although it is evident from 
what is mentioned in the case of Lazarus, who was 
regularly swathed (John xi, 44), that its effect was not 
preservation (ver. 39). The use of aromatics may nat- 
urally have been a harmless relic of the Egyptian cus- 



Muiumy of I J en-amen, priest of Atnun-Ua. 

Museum.) 


(Prom the British 


Among the later Jews a sort of embalming by means 
of honey occurs (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 7, 4 ; see Strabo, 
xvi, 74G ; compare Pliny, xxii, 50). Wax is said to 
have been employed for a similar purpose by the an- 
cient Persians (Herodotus, i, 140; comp. Cicero, Tuse. 
Quest. i, 45 ; Xenophon, Ilellen . v, 3, 19). — Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. 

IV. .Literature. — See Pettigrew, History of Egyptian 
Mummies (Lond. 1840, 4to) ; Wilkinson, Ancient Egyp- 
tians, 2d series, ii, 451 sq. ; Rosellini, Manimenti delV 
Egitto , II, iii, 334 sq., and pi. 121; Jablonski, Opusc. 
ed. Water, i, 472 ; Caylus, Abhand. zur Gesch. u. Knnst. 
i, 334 sq. ; Heyne, in the Commentt. Soc . Goett. 1780, 
iii, 89 sq. ; Winckler, Animadverss. i, 105 sq. ; Creuzer, 
Comment, in Herod, i, 14 sq., 361 sq. ; Sethus, De ali- 
mentor. facultatibus (Par. 1658), x, p. 74; Ritter, in the 
Hall. Encyclop. vii, 374 sq. ; Brande’s Encyclopedia , 
and the Penny Cyclopedia , s. v. Slummy. 

Embalming the Dead, in the Christian Church. 
It was the custom of the early Church to bestow the 
honor of embalming upon the bodies of martyrs at 
least. Accordingto an intimation of Tertullian (Apol. 
cap. 42), the usage appears to have been even generally 
adopted by Christians in burying their dead. One of 
the chief ingredients used was myrrh ; in imitation of 
the Jewish custom, which was followed by Joseph of 
Arimathea and Nicodemus, who “brought a mixture 
of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred pound weight, 
and took the body of Jesus, and wound it in linen 
clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is 
to bury” (John xix, 39). There was supposed to be 
some mystic meaning in the presents made by the 
wise men to our Saviour at his birth when they offer- 
ed to him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh : gold 
as to a king, frankincense as to a God, and myrrh as 
to a man that must die and be buried. In addition to 
the Jewish custom and the mode of our Saviour’s bur- 
ial, another reason which rendered the use of myrrh 
important was that the ancient Christians were often 
compelled to bury their dead in the places in which 
they assembled for divine worship, and the embalming 
would tend to preserve them from corruption, and ren- 
der the burial-places less offensive. — Bingham, Orig . 
Eccles. bk. xxiii, ch. ii, § 5. 

Ember Weeks. The weeks in which the ember 
days fall. These are certain days set apart in the 
Roman and Anglican churches for imploring God’s 
blessing upon the ordinations which are appointed to 
be held in the church on the Sundays next following 
these weeks. The ember days are the Wednesday, 
Friday, and Saturday after the first Sunday in Lent; 
after Whit-Sunday ; after the 14th of September; and 
after the 13th of December. These days were settled 
by the Council of Placentia, A.D. 1095. The name is 
derived by some from a German word signifying “ ab- 
stinence ;” by others it is supposed to signify “ ashes ;” 
the most probable derivation, however, is from a Sax- 
on word ( ymbren or embreii) signifying “a circuit or 
course,” because these fast-days return at certain pe- 
riods (Eden, s. v.). The ember weeks in the Roman 
Church are called the quatuor tempora, the fast so call- 
ed being observed at the beginnings of the four sea- 
sons. In the French Church it is called the fast of 
quatre-temps. It is observed at the same dates, near- 
ly, as in the English Church. It was first distinctly 
fixed in the Church year by Gregor}’- VII. — Thomas- 
sin, Traite des Jeunes , pt. i, chap, xxi ; Bingham, Orig. 


EMBLEM 


176 


EMBROIDER 


Eccl. bk. xxi, cli. ii ; Eden, Churchman's Dictionary , 
s. v. ; Palmer, Ong . Liturg, i, 305 ; Procter, On Common 
Prayer , p. 261. 

Emblem, “a deviee or figure employed to repre- 
sent some inoral notion. There are various opinions 
as to the lawfulness and expediency of emblems in re- 
ligious matters, some considering it to be both allow- 
able and useful thus to represent spiritual ideas to the 
bodily eye ; others, again, holding it to be both pre- 
sumptuous and dangerous, if not superstitious, to use 
any emblems of saered things not warranted and en- 
joined by Scripture. This, at least, is certain, that it 
is quite as likely to lead to idolatry (answering to that 
of the Hindoos, Egyptians, etc.) as pictures or images 
giving a simple resemblance. The golden calf was 
meant fur an emblem, but it was the occasion of gross 
idolatry” (Eden). 

Emblems are to be distinguished from symbols. 
Symbols are generally intended to represent revealed 
doetrines ; emblems are “arbitrary representations 
of an idea of human invention” (Walcott). Tims a 
sword is the emblem of St. Paul. A lion, as indicating 
solitude, was chosen as the emblem of Jerome as a re- 
cluse. See Idolatry ; Image. 

Embroider (Djr'j, rakam ', to variegate, Exod. 
xxxv, 35; xxxviii, 23 ; elsewhere “needle-work,” etc. ; 

shabats' , to interweave, Exod. xxviii,39; “ set,” 
Exod. xxxviii, 20). See Broidered. If these pas- 
sages are correctly rendered, the Israelites must have 
known the art of embroidery. In several passages, 
also, an equivalent expression is used — needle-work — 
and used so as to imply that not plain sew'ing, but or- 
namental w^ork, was evidently meant (Exod. xxvi, 36; 
Judg. v, 30 ; Psalm xlv, 14, etc.). The Hebrew' wom- 
en were undoubtedly indebted to their residence in 
Egypt for that perfectness of finish in embroidery 
which was displayed in the service of the tabernacle, 
and in the preparation of the sacerdotal robes directed 
to be worn by the high-priest (Exod. xxviii, 29). The 
colored figures in the cloth of the Hebrews are thought 
by most authors to have been partly the product of the 
weaver in colors, whose art appears the superior, and 
partly that of the embroiderer in eolors. The notices 



Ancient Egyptian Princess in embroidered dress. (From the 
Monuments.) 

of Egyptian history, confirmed by the monumental re- 
mains, give reason for believing that at a compara- 
tively early period they had made wonderful attain- 


ments in this line. For example, a corslet is men- 
tioned by Herodotus as having been presented by 
Amasis, king of Egypt, to the Lacedaemonians, which 
v r as of linen, each thread composed of 360 finer threads, 
and ornamented with numerous figures of animals, 
worked in gold and cotton (Herod, iii, 47). This was 
many centuries indeed after the Exodus ; hut its testi- 
mony reaches back to a much earlier time, as such a 
beautiful and elaborate piece of workmanship could 
not have been produced without ages of study and ap- 
plication to the art. Wilkinson says, “Many of the 
Egyptian stuffs presented various patterns worked in 
eolors by the loom, independent of those produced by 
the dyeing or printing process, and so richly composed 
that they vied w ith cloths embroidered by the needle. 
The art of embroidery,” he adds, “was commonly prac- 
tised in Egypt” (iii, 128) — referring in proof, how'ever, 
simply to passages in Scripture, and taking them in 
the sense put upon them in the authorized version, 
sanctioned by Gesenius and the rabbins. The Egyp- 
tian sails, says the same author, were some of them 
embroidered with fanciful devices, representing the 
phoenix, flowers, and other emblems. This, however, 
w r as confined to the pleasure-boats of the nobles and 
king. That this w r as done even in the early ages is 
evident from the paintings at Thebes, which show' sails 
ornamented with various eolors, of the time of Baineses 
111. The devices are various; the most common is 
the phoenix (Ezek. xxvii, 7). The Egyptian ladies of 
rank wore splendid dresses of needle-work (Bsalm xlv, 
13, 14). (See Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians, abridgm. 
ii, 81 ; Gesenius, Heb. Thesaur ., s. v., ut sup.) 

The art of embroidery became hereditary in certain 
families of the Israelites, but finally fell into desuetude 
(1 Chron. iv, 21). 

In later times, the Babylonians W'ere the most noted 
of all the Asiatic nations . for the weaving of eloth of 
different colors, with gold threads introduced into the 
woof. These Assyrian dresses are mentioned as an 



Ancient Assyrian embroidered Kobe. (From the 
Monuments.) 

article of commerce by Ezekiel (xxvii, 24), and occur 
even as early as the time of Joshua (vii, 21). They 
formed, perhaps, the “dyed attire and broidered work” 
so often mentioned in Scripture as the garments of 
princes and the costly gifts of kings. The ornaments 
upon them may either have been dyed, worked in the 
loom, or embroidered with the needle (Judg. v, HO''. 
(See Bayard’s Nineveh , 1st series, ii, 313.) See Wom- 
an; AVkaving. (See further in Adam’s Roman An- 
tiquities, p. 372; Miss Lambert’s Hand-book of Needle- 
work, London and New York, 1846.) See Needle- 
work. 


EMBURY 


177 


EMERY 



Modern Oriental Embroidery -fra me. 


Embviry, Philip, the first Methodist minister in 
America, was horn in Ballygaran, Ireland, Sept. -21, 
1728 or 1729. His parents were Germans of the Pa- 
latinate, and he was educated at a school near Bally- 
garan. In 1752 he was converted, and in 1758 ho 
was entered upon the roll of the Irish Conference as 
a preacher. In 1700 he emigrated to America, but 
it is not known whether he preached or not during 
the first -few years of his life in New York. In 1700, 
stimulated by the advice of Barbara Heck, a pious 
M ethodist, he organized a class, and commenced preach- 
ing, first in his own house, then in a hired room, and 
soon after (17G7) in the “Rigging Loft,” famous as 
the birth-place of Methodism in New York. A chapel 
became necessary, and in 1708 the pioneer Methodist 
church was erected on the site of the present John- 
street Church. New York at this time had a popula- 
tion of twenty thousand. Embury continued to serve 
the Church in this chapel gratuitously until the arri- 
val of the first missionaries sent out by John Wesley 
in 1709, when he surrendered the charge, and, with a 
party of fellow-Methodists, emigrated to Washington 
County. He there continued his labors as a “local 
preacher, and formed a society, chiefly of his own 
countrymen, at Ashgrove, the first Methodist organi- 
zation within the bounds of the present Troy Confer- 
ence, now numbering twenty-five thousand communi- 
cants, and more than two hundred travelling preach- 
ers. Embury died suddenly in August, 1775, in con- 
sequence of an accident in mowing. He w'as buried 
on a neighbor’s farm, but in 1832 his remains were 
taken up and deposited in Ashgrove church-yard, with 
funeral ceremonies, and an address by John N. Maf- 
fitt. In 18GG, the centenary year of American Meth- 
odism, his remains were transferred, by order of the 
Troy Conference, to the Woodland Cemetery, Cam- 
bridge, Washington County, N. Y., with impressive 
services, conducted bv bishop Janes and the Rev. S. 
D. Brown. See a good sketch of his life by Saxe, La- 
dies' Repository , May, 1859 ; also Bangs, History of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church , vol. i ; Stevens, Memorials 
of Methodism , vol. ii; Wakeley, Heroes o f Methodism ; 
Stevens, History of the ]\fethodist Episcopal Church , vol. 
i ; Wakeley, Lost Chapters. 

Emek. See Betii-Emek ; Keziz. 

Emerald (7j£3 T no'pkek, of uncertain signif.; Sept. 

N.T. and Apocr. apapaydog), a precious stone, 
named first in the second row on the breast-plate of the 
high-priest (Exod. xxviii, 18 ; xxxix, 11), imported to 
Tyre from Syria (Ezek. xxvii, 1G), used as a seal or 
signet (Ecclus. xxxii, G), as an ornament of clothing 
and bedding (Ezek. xxviii, 13; Judg. x, 21), and 
spoken of as one of the foundations of Jerusalem (Rev. 
xxi, 19 ; Tob. xiii, 1G). The rainbow round the throne 
III.— M 


is compared to emerald in Rev. iv, » (oporng bpcarti 
opapaydivip). The Sept., Josephus, and Jems. Targum 
understand by it the carbuncle. This name (in Greek 
denoting a live coal ) the ancients gave to several glow- 
ing red stones resembling live coals (Pliny, Hist. Xat . 
xxxii, 25 ; comp. Theophrast. He Lapid. 18), particular- 
ly rubies and garnets. See Carbuncle. The most 
valued of the carbuncles seems, however, to have been 
the Oriental garnet, a transparent red stone, with a 
violet shade, and strong vitreous lustre. It was en- 
graved upon (Theophrast. 31), and was probably not so 
hard as the ruby, which, indeed, is the most beautiful 
and costly of the precious stones of a red color, but is 
so hard that it cannot easily be subjected to the grav- 
ing-tool. The Hebrew nophek , in the breast-plate of 
the high -priest, w r as certainly an engraved stone; and 
there is no evidence that the ancients could engrave 
the ruby, although this has in modern times been ac- 
complished (Rosenmiiller, Biblical Mineralogy , p. 32, 
33; Braunius, He Vest. Sacerdot . p. 523; Bellermann, 
Ueber die Urim u. Thummim, p. 43). See Beryl. 

The smaraydus of the New Test, was the generic 
name of twelve varieties of gems, some of which were 
probabW true emeralds, while others seem to have been 
rather stones of the prasius or jasper kind, and still 
others no more than colored crystals and spars from 
copper mines. The statues, etc., of emerald mentioned 
by several ancient authors appear to have been noth- 
ing more than rock crystals, or even colored glass 
(Hill on Theophrast. de Lapid. 44 ; Moore’s A tic. Min- 
eral. p. 150). See Gem. 

The modern emerald is a species of beryl , of a beau- 
tiful green color, which occurs in primitive crystals, 
and is much valued for ornamental jewelry. The 
finest arc obtained from Pern. The mines from which 
the ancients obtained emeralds are said to have existed 
in Egypt, near Mount Zabarah. (See the Penny Cyclo- 
pmdia , s. v. Beryl.) 

Em'erods. See Haemorrhoids. 

Emerson, J ohn S., a Congregational minister and 
missionary, was born at Chester, N. II., in 1802 ; grad- 
uated at Dartmouth College in 182G, and studied the- 
ology at Andover. He had studied with special ref- 
erence to the missionary work, and went, under the 
auspices of the American Board, to the Sandwich Isl- 
ands, and was appointed to Waialua, Oahu, where he 
spent nearly the whole of his missionary life, laboring 
with zeal and success. For four years he was profess- 
or in the Lahainaluna seminary, and while there he 
prepared (with other writers) an English-IImcaiian 
Dictionary. lie died at Waialua March 28, 18G7. — 
American Annual Cyclopcedia , vii, 559. 

Emerson, Ralph, D.D., a Congregational divine 
and scholar, was born at Hollis, N. II., August 18, 1787, 
and was educated at Yale College, where he graduated 
in 1811 with the highest honors of his class. After 
studying theology at Andover until 1814, lie was tutor 
at Yale for a short time, and in 181G became pastor at 
Norfolk, Conn. In 1827 he was chosen professor of 
Church history and pastoral theology at Andover, 
which office he held until 1854. He lived for five 
years at Newburyport., and then removed to Rockford, 
Illinois, where some of his children resided, and where 
he died, May 20, 18G3. As a teacher, he maintained a 
high character during his long service at Andover. — 
Congregational Quarterly, July, 18G3. 

Emery, Jacques Andre, an eminent French Ro- 
man Catholic divine, was born at Gex, August 27, 
1732, and studied in the Jesuits’ College at Macon, and 
also at St. Sulpice, Paris, lie was ordained in 1756; 
became professor of theology at Orleans 1759; and af- 
terwards he held the chair of philosophy at Lyons ; in 
1776, superior of the seminary at Angers ; 1784, head 
of the abbey of Boisgroland, and also head of the con- 
gregation of St. Sulpice. In 1789 he founded a sem- 
inary of his congregation at Baltimore, Maryland. 


EMIM 


EMMAUS 


178 


During the French Tie volution he was imprisoned both 
at St. Pelagie and at the Conciergeric. In 1802 he re- 
sumed his place among the clergy of Paris, and de- 
voted himself to the restoration of the scattered and 
broken congregation of St. Sulpice. lie died April 18, 
1811. Among his numerous writings are V Esprit de 
Leibnitz (Lyons, 1772, 2 vols. 12mo ; Paris, 1804,2 vols. 
8vo) : — Esprit de St. Tlierese (3d edit. Avignon, 1825, 2 
vols. 12mo). — Hoefer, A "our. Biogr. Generate, xv, 943; 
Wetzei- und Welte, Kirclien-Lexikon , xii, 315. 

E'mim (Ileb. Eymitn, terrors ; Sept. ’O/i- 

fiaio i and ’O ggetv; Auth. Vers. “Emims”), a numer- 
ous and warlike tribe of the ancient Canaanites, of gi- 
gantic stature, defeated by Chedorlaomer and his allies 
in the plain of Kiriathaim ; they occupied, in the time 
of Abraham, the country east of the Jordan, afterwards 
possessed b} r the Moabites (Gen. xiv, 5; I)eut. ii, 10, 
11). Sec Canaan. An ingenious writer in the Jour, 
of Sac. Lit. (April, 1852, p. 55 sq, ; Jan. 1853, p. 296) 
argues, but upon rather slender grounds, that their 
original title was Shift im, and identifies them with the 
Chetta so often referred to in the Egyptian inscrip- 
tions. It would appear, from a comparison of Gen. 
xiv, 5-7 with Deut. ii, 10-12, 20-23, that the whole 
country cast of Jordan was, in primitive times, held by 
a race of giants, all probably of the same stock, com- 
prehending the Re ph a im on the north, next the Zuziin, 
after them the Emim, and then the Horim on the 
south ; and that afterwards the kingdom of Bashan 
embraced the territories of the first ; the country of the 
Ammonites, the second; that of the Moabites, the third; 
while Edom took in the mountains of the llorim. The 
whole of them were attacked and pillaged by the East- 
ern kings who destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. See 
Rephaim. The Emim were related to the Anakim, 
and were generally called by the same name ; but 
their conquerors, the Moabites, termed them Emim — 
that is, “Terrible men” (Deut. ii, 11) — most probably 
on account of their fierce aspect. Sec Anakim. 

Eminence, a title of the Romish cardinals, first 
given to them by Urban VIII, to endow them with a 
rank equal to that of the spiritual princes of Europe, 
and of the grand masters of the knights of St. John and 
of Malta. See Cardinals. 

Emlyn, Thomas, an English Nonconformist the- 
ologian, was born May 27,1663, at Stamford, in Lin- 
colnshire ; made chaplain 1683 by the countess of 
Donegal. In 1691 he became assistant to Mr. Boyce 
in the congregation of Nonconformists in Wood Street, 
Dublin. Having imbibed and preached Arian doc- 
trines, he was deprived of his functions, and fined and 
imprisoned for two years. Restored to liberty, he con- 
tinued to preach and to write in favor of Arianism 
until his death, July 30,1743. His Works were col- 
lected and published in London, 1746 (3 vols. 8vo), i 
Waterland notices Emlyn ’s writings frequently (see 
the index to his works, 6 vols. 8vo). See also Dorner, , 
Person of Christ (Edinb. transl.), div. ii, vol. iii, 357. | 

Emman'uel ('EggavovgX), a Gruecized form 
(Matt, i, 23) of the name Immanuel (q. v.). 

Em'maus (Eggaovc, prob. from hot baths , 

see Gen. xxxvi, 24), the name of three places in Pal- 
estine. 

1. A village ( fiogi ] ) 60 stadia (A.V. “furlongs”) or 
74 miles from Jerusalem, noted for our Lord’s inter- 
view with two disciples on the day of his resurrection 
(Luke xxiv, 13). The same place is mentioned by 
Josephus ( Wai', vii, 6, 6), and placed at the same dis- 
tance from Jerusalem, in stating that Vespasian left 
800 soldiers in Judaea, to whom he gave the village of 
Ammai/s (’A ggcwvr). The direction, however, is not 
given in either passage. Eusebius and Jerome (0710- 
mast. s. v. ’Eggaovg, Emmaus) hold that it is identical 
with Xicopolis [see No. 2, below] ; and thfev were fol- 
lowed by all geographers down to the commencement I 


of the 14th century (Reland, Palcest. p. 758). Then, 
for some reason, it began to be supposed that the site 
of Emmaus was at the little village of Kubeibth , about 
3 miles W. of Nehy Samwil, the eminence N.W. of 
Jerusalem (Maundeville, in Early Travels in Palestine , 
p. 175; Ludolph. de Suchein, Itiner. ; Quaresmius, ii, 
719; Robinson, Bib. lies, iii, 66, note). Mr. Williams 
regards Kuriet el-Enab as the true location (Journal of 
Philology , iv, 26), and Thomson inclines to the same 
position (Land and Book, ii, 308) ; but this view has 
little to recommend it, and the locality is otherwise 
appropriated. See Kirjatii-Jearim. Schwarz thinks 
it different from Nieopolis, and that it is mentioned in 
the Talmud as Barur Chayil (??n *Vp,2, i. e. chosen 
of the army ) or Gibbor Chayil (Vn Tisa, i. e. heroes of 
the army , as being occupied by Roman veterans), a 
name that he finds in “ some ruins which the Arabs 
call Barburaia , S. of Saris, 74 Eng. miles from Jeru- 
salem” (Palest, p. 117, 118) ; but no such name appears 
on Van de Velde’s Map (which lu}'s down Saris at 7 
miles X. of W. from Jerusalem). In this uncertainty, 
the monkish identification with el-Kubcibeli (“the lit- 
tle dome”) may for the present he acquiesced in. 
This corresponds sufficiently in distance from Jerusa- 
lem (Raumer, Paldst. p. 169), being 7500 paces (Coto- 
vicus, p. 315), or hours to the N.W. (Van de Velde, 
Memoir , p. 309) ; and containing the ruins of a convent 
and church (Tobler, Topograph, von. Jems, ii, 540), al- 
though Dr. Robinson describes it (Bib. Res. ii, 394) as 
“a village built up by the government of Gaza on a 
stony, barren hill, without anything to mark it par- 
ticularly as an ancient site.” On the evangelical in- 
cident at this place there are treatises in Latin by 
Harenberg (in his Otia Gandersh. p. 41 60) ; Waleh 
(Jen. 1754). Zschokke (Das neutest. Emmaus belcuchtct, 
Schaffh. 1865) argues at length in favor of the modern 
traditionary site ; and the chief building on the spot, 
known as the “ castrum Arnoldi,” has lately been 
bought by some zealous Catholics as a “holy place” 
(Bibliotheca Sacra , July, 1866, p. 517). 

2. Emmaus (’Eggaovc;, 1 Macc. iii, 40, etc; ’Agga- 
ovg, Josephus, War, ii, 20, 4) or Xicopolis, a town in 
the plain of Philistia, at the foot of the mountains of 
Judah (Jerome, in Dan. viii), 22 Roman miles from 
Jerusalem, and 10 from Lydda (I tin. Iliei'os. cd. Hes- 
sel, p. 600; Reland, Paleest. p. 309). The name does 
not occur in the O. T. ; but the town rose to impor- 
tance during the later history of the Jews, and was a 
place of note in the wars of the Asmonreans. It was 
fortified by Bacehidos, the general of Anticclms Epipli- 
anes, when he was engaged in the war with Jonathan 
Maccaboetis (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 1, 3; 1 Macc. ix, 50). 
It was in the plain beside this city that Judas Macca- 
lucus so signally defeated the Syrians with a mere 
handful of men, as related in 1 Macc. iii, 57 ; iv, 3; ix, 
50. Under the Romans, Emmaus became the capital 
of a toparchy (Josephus, War, iii, 3, 5;. Pliny, v, 14). 
It was burned by the Roman general Varus about 
A. I). 4. In the 3d century (about A.D. 220) it was 
rebuilt through the exertions of Julius Africanus, the 
well-known Christian writer, and then received the 
name A7 copolis. Eusebius and Jerome frequently re- 
fer to it in defining the positions of neigh boring towns 
and villages (Chron. Pas. ad A.C. 223 ; Reland, p. 759). 
Early writers mention a fountain at Emmaus, famous 
far and wide for its healing virtues (Sozomcn, Hist, 
Eccl. v. 21); the cause of this Tlieoplianes ascribes to 
the fact that our Lord on one occasion washed his feet 
in it (Chron. p. 41). The Crusaders still called it Ni- 
copolis, hut confounded it with a small fortress farther 
south, on the Jerusalem road, now called I.atron (Will. 
Tvr. Hist, vii, 24). A small, miserable village called 
’.I uncus still occupies the site of the ancient city. It 
stands on the western declivity of a low, rocky hill 
commanding the plain, and contains the ruins of an 
old church a little south of the village, also two copi- 


EMMER 


179 


EMMONS 


ous fountains, one of which is doubtless the ancient 
medicinal spring (Robinson, Researches , ii, 363; Later 
Res. p. 116, 117 ; Thomson, Land and Rook, ii, 290). 

Dr. Robinson lias recently revived the old theory 
that the Emmaus of Luke is identical with Nicopolis, 
and has supported it with his wonted learning, but not 
with his wonted conclnsiveness {Bib. Res. iii, 65, 66; 
Later Res. p. 118). He endeavors to cast doubts on 
the accuracy of the reading i^i'iKovra in Luke xxiv,13, 
because several uncial MSS. and a few unimportant 
cursive MSS. insert Rcarur, thus making the distance 
160 stadia, which would nearly correspond to the dis- 
tance of Nicopolis. Rut the best MSS. have not this 
word, and the best critics regard it as an interpolation. 
There is a strong probability that some copyist who 
was acquainted with the city,, but not the village of 
Emmaus, tried thus to reconcile Scripture with his 
ideas of geography. The opinions of Eusebius, Jerome, 
and their followers, on a point such as this, are not of 
very great authority. When the name of any noted 
place agreed with one in the Bible they were not al- 
ways careful to see whether the position corresponded 
in like manner. Emmaus-Nicopolis being a noted city 
in their day, they were led somewhat rashly to con- 
found it with the Emmaus of the Gospel. The cir- 
cumstances of the narrative are plainly opposed to 
the identity. The two disciples, having journeyed 
from Jerusalem to Emmaus in part of a day (Luke 
xxiv, 28, 29), left the latter again after the evening 
meal, and reached Jerusalem before it was very late 
(ver. 33, 42, 43). Now, if we take into account the 
distance, and the nature of the road, leading up a steep 
and difficult mountain, we must admit that such a 
journey could not be accomplished in less than from 
six to seven hours, so that they could not have arrived 
in Jerusalem till long past midnight. This fact seems 
conclusive against the identity of Nicopolis and the 
Emmaus of Luke (Roland, Palast. p. 427 sq. ; Van dc 
Velde, Memoir, p. 309). — Smith, s. v. 

3. The name Emmaus, or Ammaus (^Appaovc), was 
also borne by a village of Galilee close to Tiberias; 
probably the ancient Hasimatii (q. v.), i. e. hot springs 
— of which name Emmaus was but a corruption. The 
hot springs still remained in the time of Josephus, and 
are mentioned by him as giving name to the place 
{War, iv, 1, 3; Ant. xviii, 2, 3). 

Em'mer (’Ejujm/n), given (1 Esdr. ix, 21) as the 
name of one of the priests whose “ sons” had married 
foreign wives after the exile, in place of the Dimer 
(q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra x, 20). 

Emraeran or Emmeram, a bishop of Poitiers in 
the 7th century. lie left his see for the purpose of 
missionary labors in Hungary, but is said to have 
stopped in Bavaria three years, at the request of duke 
Theodo, to purify the Christianity of that duchy, where 
it was sadly mixed with paganism. After this he con- 
tinued his journey to Rome, and was waylaid and mur- 
dered by a sou of the duke (Sept. 22, 652), because the 
daughter of the latter, Uta, claimed to have been dis- 
honored by Ennneran. After his death, a clergyman, 
Wulflaich by name, maintained the innocence of Em- 
mcran, saving that the latter, shortly before his death, 
had told him that, in order to help Uta, he had allowed 
her to name him as seducer, though the real culprit 
was Siegliart, the son of a judge. This statement of 
Wulflaich is said to have induced Theodo to bury him 
with great honors, and to exile his son to Hungary. 
Enimeran was soon venerated as a saint, and became 
one of the patron saints of the city and diocese of Rat- 
isbon. He is commemorated in the Church of Rome 
on the 22d of September. On pictures he is repre- 
sented as a bishop with a ladder. The accounts of 
Emmeran are very confused and conflicting; the best 
one is given by Canisius, Lectiones A ntiqwr, iii, 1 . See 
Neander, Ch. Hist, iii, 39 ; Herzog, Real- Pncyclop. iii, 
779 ; Wetzer u. Wcltc, Kirchen-Lex. iii, 558. 


Emmons, Natiianaee, D.D., one of the found- 
ers of a new school in Calvinistic theology, was born 
April 20 (O. S.), 1745, at East Haddam, Conn., a 'town 
which was also the birthplace of the missionary broth- 
ers David and John Brainerd, of President Edward 
Dorr Griffin and his brother George D. Griffin, Esq., 
of the jurist Jeremiah Gates Brainard and the poet 
James Brainard Taylor. He was the sixth son, and 
the twelfth and youngest child of his parents. He 
entered Yale College in 1763, and was graduated with 
honor in 1767. Among his classmates were Gov. John 
Treadwell, the poet John Trumbull, Professor Samuel 
Wales, and Dr. Joseph Lyman, who, as long as they 
lived, exhibited a high degree of reverence for Dr. Em- 
mons. He studied theology first with Rev. Nathan 
Strong, of Coventry, Conn., and afterwards with Rev. 
Dr. John Smalley, of Berlin, Conn., a divine who had 
been a pupil of Dr. Joseph Bellamy, and who exerted 
more influence than perhaps any other man in shaping 
the theological opinions of young Emmons. — In 1769 
Emmons was approbated as a preacher, and on the 
20th of April, 1773, was ordained pastor of the Congre- 
gational Church in Franklin, Mass. He remained 
sole pastor of this church fifty-four years, and an ac- 
tive member of it sixty-seven years and five months. 
Among the members of the council which ordained 
him were his two special friends, Rev. Dr. Hopkins, of 
Newport, R. 1., and Rev. Dr. Hart, of Preston, Conn., 
a son-in-law of Dr. Bellamy. During his active pas- 
torate at Franklin he was favored with three revivals 
of religion, one in 1784, one in 1794, and one in 1808-9. 
In the first of these revivals about seventy persons, in 
the second about thirty, and in the third about forty 
were thought to have consecrated themselves to Christ. 
One of his aphorisms was, “ The seed which a faithful 
laborer sows is apt to come up when he retires from 
I the field;” and as soon as Dr. Emmons was relieved 
of his sole pastorate at Franklin, he was gladdened by 
a fourth revival, in which thirty-six persons were add- 
l ed to his church, and after nine or ten years he re- 
joiced in a fifth ingathering of the fruits which he had 
I planted. He lived to see nearly four hundred of his 
parishioners profess their faith in Christ. One of 
them, Rev. Dr. Blake, has recorded: “Hardly a case 
of defection from the truth has ever occurred among 
those who were turned unto God under Dr. Emmons’s 
ministry.” His examinations of candidates for church- 
membership were very rigid. — A large part of his in- 
fluence on the churches has been exerted through his 
theological pupils. Between eightv-six and a hun- 
dred young men were guided by him in their studies 
preparatory to the Christian ministry. Of these pu- 
pils several became useful as professors in our colleges 
and theological seminaries ; many, as sound and strong 
preachers. Forty-six of them are noticed in the bio- 
graphical dictionaries of eminent men. His impress 
upon them was decided and permanent. They were 
often called Emmonites. — Although he was an adept 
in metaphysical abstractions, yet he aimed to be a 
practical man, not only in his influence on his pupils, 
but also in the general affairs of the Church and the 
State. He was the first president, and a father, if not 
the father of the Massachusetts Missionary Society, 
which was the parent of many philanthropic institu- 
tions. He was also one of the original editors of the 
Massachusetts Missionary Mayazine, which was the 
germ of the present Missionary Herald. lie was 
among the foremost in starting various trains of influ- 
ence which have now become parts ol our history. 
When the masonic fraternity was most popular, he 
was a zealous anti-mason. When anti-slavery was 
most generally denounced, he was an active abolition- 
ist. It was often his lot to be an advocate of the 
weaker party. He was a decided Federalist in poli- 
tics, and produced a great excitement by some of his 
political writings. lie seldom visited his parishion- 
ers, still he was remarkable for bis knowledge of their 


EMMOXS 


180 


EMPEROI 


lecular as well as religious affairs. He was a man of ' 
authority in his parish, faithful, often stern, yet be- 
loved. — It is as ail author, however, that he has exert- 
ed his greatest influence on the churches. He pub- | 
lislied during bis life more than seven thousand copies 
of nearly two hundred sermons, besides four elaborate 
dissertations and more than a hundred essays for the 
magazines of his day. He must have preached nearly 
or quite six thousand times, and at his death a part 
only of his discourses were collected and published in 
six octavo volumes; to these a seventh volume was 
afterwards added. At a still subsequent period a new j 
and enlarged edition of his sernions was published in 
six volumes. The first edition of his works was intro- 
duced with a memoir by his son-in-law, Rev. Jacob 
Ide, D.D., of Medway, Mass. ; the second edition with 
a memoir by E. A. Park, of Andover, Mass. — He be- 
gan to study in 1762; he ceased to preach in 1827: 
during these sixty-five years he was an earnest, pa- 
tient, and singularly methodical applicant to books. 
During ten of the years which followed his resigna- 
tion of his active pastorate he continued to be an as- 
siduous reader , although he relaxed his habits of in- 
tense energetic study. It may be safely affirmed, then, 
that he devoted seventy-five years to the perusal of 
books, the meditation on their contents, and the writ- 
ing on themes suggested by them. He was accustom- 
ed to spend ten, twelve, or fourteen hours daily in his 
room with his book or pen in hand. He had a place 
for everything, and kept everything in its place. He 
was temperate in his diet, regular in all his habits, 
and, although he took no physical exercise, he enjoyed 
uninterrupted health during his long and laborious 
life. He was distinguished for his punctuality, pre- 
cision, definiteness, and sharpness of mind, keen analy- 
sis, self-eonsistene} r , wit, frankness, honesty, profound 
reverence for the truth. He was tenacious of old 
usages, and went so far as to continue to wear the an- 
tique dress, even the three-cornered hat, as long as he 
appeared in public. He was an original thinker, and 
formed his theological system with rare independence 
of mind. He coincided in opinion with Dr. Samuel 
Hopkins, of Newport, more nearly than with any pre- 
ceding divine. A sketch of his theological system 
will be given in the subsequent notice of Dr. Hopkins. 
It may be here remarked, however, that he considered 
himself not a high, nor a low , but a consistent Calvinist; 
and, so far as his speculations were novel, they were 
mainly designed to make the Genevan scheme consist- 
ent with itself. On one Sabbath, for instance, he would 
use so bold language in advocating the doctrine of 
decrees as might induce some to call him a Fatalist ; 
and on a following Sabbath lie would use so bold 
language in advocating the doctrine' of free-will as 
might induce some to call him a Pelagian ; and on a 
third Sabbath he would employ his ingenuity in recon- 
ciling his statements on the agency of God with his 
statements on the free agency of man. This ingenui- 
ty in harmonizing such views as are often pronounced 
irreconcilable, was a main source of the interest excit- 
ed in him. — Dr. Emmons died on the 23d of September, 
1840, at the age of ninety-five years and five months. 
He retained his faculties to a surprising degree until 
bis death, and few men have ever left the world with a 
more unfaltering and solid faith in Christ. — In 1775 he 
was married to his first wife, who, with her two chil- 
dren, died in 1778. In 1779 lie was married to his sec- 
ond wife, by whom he had five children, two of whom 
survived him. She was the step-daughter of Rev. Dr. 
Samuel Hopkins, of Iladlev, Mass., and thus he became 
the brother-in-law of Rev. Dr. Spring, of Newburvport, 
Mass., Rev. Dr. Austin, president of Burlington Col- 
lege, Rev. Leonard Worcester, and Rev. Mr. Riddel, 
four strong Hopkinsian divines. In 1831, when he was 
eighty-six years of age, he was married to his third 
wife, the widow of his former friend, Rev. Mr. Mills, of 
Sutton, Mass. (E. A. P.) 


Enfimor ('Eju/mp v. r. 'E pfubg), a Gnecized form 
(Acts vii, 16) of the name of H amor (q. v.), the father 
of Shecbcm (Gen. xxxiv, 2). 

Emperor (Lat. imperator, general), a title common 
(in its Lat. form) to all governors who had paramount 
jurisdiction within a given province (Smith, Diet, of 
Class. Antiq. s. v. lmperium), but technically assumed 
as a pnenumen first by Julius Caisar (Sueton. Jul. 76), 
as affecting supreme power, and historically attributed 
to his successors, the heads of the so-styled Roman 
Empire (q. v.). They were also designated as Cae- 
sar (q. v.). We are here chiefly concerned with them ‘ 
as they came in contact with the Christian religion in 
the character of persecutors or patrons. Sec Perse- 
cution. (See Baldwin, Edicta vett.principum Roman, 
tie Christ ieniis, Hal. 1727 [also in Heineeeii Jurispr. 
Rom. i, 1374 sq.] ; Crause, De Romanorum imperatori - 
bus herd ids, Ziz. 1674; Hebenstreit, De primis Chris- 
tianis imperaioribus , Jen. 1702; Heineccius, De minis- 
ins Ccesarnm Christianis, Hal. 1712; also Hir t, De im- 
peratorum ante Constant, erga Chrisiianos favore , Jen. 
1758 ; Koepkc, De statu Chnstianorum sub impp. Berol. 
1828). 

. The following is a complete list of the Roman em- 
perors, with their respective dates of accession. See 
each name of ecclesiastical interest in its alphabetical 
place. 


r».c. 

31. Augustus. 

A 1>. 

14. Tiberius. 

37. Caligula. 

41. Claudius I. 

54. Nero. 

08. Galba. 

69. Otbo. 

G9. Yitellius. 

GO. Vespasian. 

7G. Titus. 

SI. Romitian. 

90. Nervn. 

9s. Trajan. 

117. Hadrian. 

1 38. Antoninus. 
j 161. M. Aurelius. 
(1GI. LucinsVcrus. 
ISO. Conitnodus. 
103. Pertinax. 

103. Julian. 

103. Niger. 

193. Sevcrus. 

(211. Caracalla. 

(21 1. Ota. 

217. Maerinus. 

21 S. Klagabalus. 
222. Alexander. 
235. Mnximin I. 
237. Gordian. 

(237. Maximus. 
(237. Balbinus. 

23S. Gordian, jun. 
244. Philip. 

240. Decius. 

(251. Gallic. 

(252. Yolusian. 

253. iEmilian. 
(253. Valerian. 
(260. Gallienus. 
2GS. Claudius II. 
270. Quintillus. 
270. Aitrelian. 

275. Tacitus. 

276. l'lorianus, 

277. Probus. 

2S2. earns. 

jf 2S3. Carinus. 

\ 2S3. N umerianus. 
j284. Diocletian. 
(2SG. Maximian. 
j 202. Const anti us. 
{202. Galerius. 
(305. Valerius. 
{305. Mnxiinin 11. 
(300. Constantine. 
(307. Licinius. 

337. Constantine, 
jun. 

337. Constantins. 
337. Constans. 
CGI. Julian, apos- 
tate. 


II. 


| A.D. 

303. Jovian. 

| JJVsiVru Empire. 

304. Yalentinian I. 
307. G rat inn. 

375. Yalentinian II. 
302. Theodosius I. 
J95. Ilonorius. 

423. Theodosius II.' 
425. Yalentinian 

III. 

455. Petrontus. 

455. A vitus. 

457. Majorian. 

40 1. Libius. 

407. Anthemius. 

472. nlybrius. 

473. Glyeerius. 

474. Julius. 

475. Romulus. 

Eastern Entire. 

304. Yalens. 

37S Theodosiusl. 

305. Arcadius. 

4oS. Theodosius 
450. Marcian. 

457. Leo I. 

474. Leo. IT. 

474. Zeno. 

401. Anastasius. 

51S. Justin I. 

>27. Justinian I. 

05. Justin IT. 

57 S. Tiberius II. 

5S2. Maurieius. 

G02. Phocas. 

01 o. Ilcraclius 1. 
041. Constantine or 
Ileraclius II. 
G41. Ileracleonas. 
041. Constans II. 
008. Constantine 

IV. 

085. Justinian II. 
005. Leontius. 

008. Absimarus. 

70L Justinian III. 
711. Philippicus. 

13. Anastasias II. 
710. Theodosius III. 
17. Leo III. 

'41. Constantine Y 
[Artavasdes]. 
75. Leo TV. 

780. ConstantineVI. 
97. Irene. 

802. N'ieepliorus. 
Ml. Stauracius. 

>811. Michael I. 

813. Leo V. 

820. Michael II. 

S29. Theopliilus. 


A.D. 

S42. Michael III. 
SG7. Basil I. 

S30. Leo Yl. 

(011. Constantine 

VII. 

| Oil. Alexander. 
010. Roman us I. 

| 044. Constantine 

VIII. 

IJ144. Stephanas. 
950. Romanus II. 
903. N'ieepliorus 

II. 

OCO. John I. 

909. Basil II. 

970. Constantine 

IX. 

1023. Romanus II L 
1034. Michael IV. 

1041. Michael V. 

1042. Zoe and The- 

odora. 

1042. Constantine 

X. 

1054. Theodora. 

1056. Michael YL 

1057. Isaac I. 

1050. Constantine 

XL 

1007. Romanus IV. 
1071. Michael VII. 
1078. N'ieepliorus 

III. 

1051. Alexis T. 
1118. John II. 

1143. Manuel I. 

11 SI. Alexis IT. 

11 S3. Andronicus 

11 Q 5. Isaac II. 

1105. Alexis III. 

1203. Alexis IV. 

1204. Alexis V. 
Lati n Ewpcrors of 

Constantinople. 
1204. Baldwin I. 
1200. Henry. 

1217. Peter. 

1221. Robert. 

122S. Baldwin IL 

Greek Emperors of 
Ricaa. 

120G. Theodorus I. 

1222. John 111. 
1255. Theodorus 

IL 

1250. John IV. 

1200. Michael VIII. 
Greek Emperors of 

Const antinojile. 

1201. Michael VIIL 


EMORY 


1S1 


EMORY 


A.D. 

A.D. 

( 12S3. Andronicus 

1332. Andronicus 

< II. 

III. 

(4294. Michael IX. 

(1341. John V. 


\ 1347. John VI. 


A.D. 

1384. Manuel II. 
14-25. John VII. 
1445. Constantine 
XIII. 


Emory, John, D.D., a bishop of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was horn in Queen Anne County, 
Maryland, April 11,1789. After completing his aca- 
demical education at Washington College, he studied 
law, and was admitted to the bar at nineteen } r ears of 
age. His great ability was soon manifest; he came 
rapidly into practice, and had every prospect of early 
success. But he had passed through a decided religious 
experience before his admission to the bar, and soon 
after decided, in opposition to the will of his lather, to 
enter the ministry. In 1810 he was received on trial 
in the Philadelphia Conference of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church. lie soon established a reputation for 
pre-eminence in all the qualities of a true Christian 
minister. From 1813 to 1824 he filled the most impor- 
tant pastoral stations in the Methodist Connection in 
America, his appointments being as follows : 1811, 
Cambridge Circuit; 1812, Talbot Circuit; 1813-1-4, 
Philadelphia ; 1815, Wilmington ; 1816-17, Union 
Church, Philadelphia ; 1818-19, Washington ; 1820- 
21, Annapolis ; 1822, Hagerstown ; 1823, Baltimore. 
In 1816 he was elected to the General Conference, and 
he was a member of every subsequent General Confer- 
ence until his death, except that of 1824. In 1820 he 
-was sent as a delegate from the American to the Brit- 
ish Conference, and discharged the delicate duties of 
his mission to the entire satisfaction of the churches. 
From 1824 to 1832 he was hook-agent and editor for 
the Methodist Episcopal Church at New York. In this 
post his rare combination of intellectual power and cul- 
ture with business habits was pre-eminently displayed. 
To none of the eminent men who have held this office 
is the Methodist Book Concern more indebted for its 
present greatness than to Dr. Emory. In the lan- 
guage of Bishop Waugh, “ The two great objects which 
Dr. Emory aimed to accomplish were, first, the extin- 
guishment of the debts due from the concern, and, sec- 
ond, the actual sale of the stock on hand, and especial- 
ly that part of it which was daily depreciating, because 
of the injuries which were constantly being sustained 
by it, in the scattered and exposed state in which most 
of it was found. The ability, skill, diligence, and per- 
severance which he displayed in the measures devised 
by him for the accomplishment of these objects have 
seldom been equaled, and perhaps never surpassed by 
the most practiced business man. His success was 
complete. Before the meeting of the General Confer- 
ence he had canceled all the obligations of the institu- 
tion which had been so opportunely intrusted to his su- 
pervision. He had greatly enlarged the annual divi- 
dends to an increased number of conferences. He had 
purchased several lots of ground for a more enlarged 
and eligible location of the establishment, and had 
erected a large four story brick building as a part of 
the improvements intended to be put on them, for the 
whole of which lie had paid. It was his high honor, 
and also his enviable satisfaction, to report to the Gen- 
eral Conference, for the first time, that its Book Con- 
cern was no longer in debt.” He originated the 
“Publishing Fund” and “The Methodist Quarterly 
Review,” and abolished entirely the sale of books on 
commission. 

In 1832 be was elected a bishop of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, and entered upon his duties at once, 
not only by attending the annual Conferences, but also 
by general attention to the interests of the Church. 
He was especially active with regard to education, and 
had a large share in the organization of Dickinson Col- 
lege. In addition to this, he drew up the outline of a 
plan for an education society in the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, which he designed to aid ministers and 
others in educating their sons. Soon after his election 


to the episcopacy Dr. Emory devised a course of study 
for candidates for deacons’ and elders’ orders, in which, 
with his usual discretion, he did not hazard everything 
by attempting too much. The Troy Conference of 
1835 was the last which he attended. On the 16th of 
December in that year he was thrown from his car- 
riage, about two miles from his own house (Beisters- 
town, Md.), at seven o'clock A.M., and at half past 
seven in the evening he died. 

Bishop Emory was a man of great talent and large 
cultivation. As a scholar, he was accurate and pro- 
found ; as a preacher, he was clear and convincing ; 
as an administrative officer, he hardly had a superior 
in any church. As a controversial writer, he was dis- 
tinguished for logical directness and for fairness to his 
adversaries. In 1817 he published two pamphlets in 
reply to bishop White’s Objections against Personal As- 
surance by the Holy Spirit ; and in 1818, another, enti- 
tled The Divinity of Christ vindicated against the Cavils 
of Mr. John Wright. The period from 1818 to 1830 
was one of great excitement in the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church on various points of Church polity, and in 
all the controversy Dr. Emory bore a distinguished 
part. A large party wished to have the office of pre- 
siding elder made elective ; he fell into the ranks of 
that party, and, at the General Conference of 1820, he 
opposed vigorously a theory which gave the bishops a 
right to veto the acts of the General Conference. In 
the later conferences as to lay representation he was 
the principal writer, publishing, in 1824, The Defence 
of our Fathers , in reply to A. M'Caine, a very vigorous 
and powerfully written work. After his death there 
appeared from his pen The Ejnscopal Controversy Re- 
viewed (New York, 1838, 8vo), edited by his son, Rob- 
ert Emory, from an unpublished manuscript ; it is a 
luminous sketch, in reply to bishop Onderdouk’s Epis- 
copacy tested by Scripture. Most of the original articles 
in the first two volumes of the Methodist Quarterly Re- 
view were written by him. — Life of Bishop Emory , by 
his eldest son (N. Y. 1840, 8vo) ; M‘Clintock, in Meth- 
odist Quarterly Reviexv , 1842, p. 62 sq. ; Sprague, A n- 
nals , vii, 486 ; Stevens, History of the Methodist Episco - 
ped Church , vol. iv. 

Emory, Robert, D.D., son of the preceding, an 
eminent Methodist minister and scholar, was born in 
Philadelphia, July 29, 1814. His early education was 
superintended by his father. In 1827 he entered Co- 
lumbia College, New York, where he graduated in 1831 
with the highest honors and medals of his class. He 
then entered upon the study of law, first in the law 
school of Yale College, and afterwards in the office of 
the Hon. Reverd} r Johnson, of Baltimore. In 1834 he 
was elected professor of ancient languages at Dickin- 
son College, Carlisle, and entered upon his duties there 
with great zeal. In 1839 he was admitted on trial in 
the Baltimore Conference of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church; in 1841 he was appointed to the Baltimore 
city station ; and in 1842 he was appointed acting pres- 
ident of Dickinson College, during the absence of the 
president (Dr. Durbin). In 1844 he was appointed 
presiding cider of the Carlisle District ; and in 1845 he 
was made president of Dickinson College. In the 
same year the degree of D.D. was conferred upon him 
by Columbia College. In 1847 he attended the session 
of the Evangelical Alliance held at London, and few 
of the delegates made a greater impression upon the 
body. Ilis health showed signs of failure during this 
year, and he spent the winter following in the AVest 
J Indies. But he continued to decline, and on his re- 
i turn homeward he died in Baltimore, May 18, 1848. 
Dr. Emory was one of those rare men in whom the hu- 
man faculties, both moral and intellectual, seem to ap- 
proach perfection, and to reach almost complete har- 
mony of action. His classical scholarship was thor- 
ough and accurate ; his mind was at once logical and 
comprehensive, and his general culture was wide and 
generous. His religious experience was, in many re* 


EMOTION 


182 


EMPIRICISM 


gpeets, similar to that of President Edwards, and ripen- j 
ed into similar fulness and serenity. As a preacher he 
was luminous, earnest, and successful. As a college 
officer he was seldom rivaled. “ 1 1 is power of gov- 
ernment was unsurpassed: he seemed born to com- 
mand. In him prudence and independence met to j 
form that rare combination so essential to one who 
rules. This remark finds its illustration and 'proof in 
his government of the college, to whose interests he 
devoted so much of his brief earthly lile. M hile be 
shrunk from no responsibility of his position, he was 
still careful to maintain that position by devising the 
best means to meet responsibility. 1 hough many 
felt the weight of the sceptre in his hand, yet the con- 
viction that it was wielded by a strong man, and in the 
fear of the Lord, conciliated esteem. As president of 
the college, as in every other position, he rose rapidly, 
both before the public and in the college ; and the last 
year in which his name appeared in connection with 
that office was the most prosperous in the history of 
the institution. The students honored him even to 
reverence, and regarded him as standing on a moral 
and intellectual eminence toward which the indolent 
and u n worth must not even look, and to which the 
noblest and best among them ought eagerly to aspire.” 
In 1841 he published A Life of the Rev. John Emory, 
D.D. (X. Y. Svo); in 184'!, an elaborate History of the 
Discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church (N. ’l . 
12mo\ lie left unfinished an Analysis of Butler's 
Analogy, which was completed by the Rev. G. R. 
Crooks, D.D. (X. Y. Harpers, 1856, Svo), and which is 
the best analysis of the A nalogy that has ever appear- 
ed. — Minutes of Conferences, 1849; Sprague, Annals, 
vii, 828. 

Emotion ( emoreo , to move out) “is often nsed as 
synonymous with feeling. Strictly taken, it means ‘a 
state of feeling which, while it does not spring directly 
from an affection of body, manifests its existence and 
character by some sensible e tfcct upon the body.’ An 
emotion differs from a sensation by its not originating 
in a state of body; and from a cogn'tiun , by its being 
pleasurable or painful. Emotions, like other states of 
feeling, imply knowledge. Something beautiful or de- 
formed, sublime or ridiculous, is known and contem- 
plated ; and on the contemplation springs up the ap- 
propriate feeling, followed by the characteristic ex- 
pression of countenance, or attitude, or manner. In 
themselves considered, emotions can scarcely be called 
springs of action. ‘ The feelings of beauty, grandeur, 
and whatever else is comprehended under the name of 
taste, do not lead to action , but terminate in delightful 
contemplation, which constitutes the essential distinc- 
tion between them and the moral sentiments, to which, 
in some points of view, they may doubtless be likened’ 
(Mackintosh, Dissert, p. 238). Emotions tend rather, 
while they last, to fix attention on the objects or occur- 
rences which have excited them. In many instances, 
however, emotions are succeeded by desires to obtain 
possession of the objects which awaken them, or to re- 
move ourselves from the presence of such objects. 
'When an emotion is thus succeeded by some degree of 
desire, it forms, according to Lord Karnes, a passion, 
and becomes, according to its nature, a powerful and 
permanent spring of action. Emotions, then, are 
awakened through the medium of the intellect, and 
arc varied and modified by the conception we fo.m of 
the objects to which they refer. Emotions manifest 
their existence and character by sensible effects upon 
the body. Emotions, in themselves* and by themselves, 
lead to quiescence and contemplation rather than ac- 
tivity ; but they combine with springs of action, and 
give to them a character and a coloring. What is 
said to be done from surprise or shame has its proper 
spring- — the surprise or shame being concomitant’’ (Dr. 
< 'hall tiers, Sketches of Mental'and Moral Philosophy, p. 
88). — Fleming, Vocabulary o f Philosophy, s. v. 

Empedocles, an ancient philosopher of Agrigen- 


tum, “distinguished himself by his knowledge of natu- 
ral history and medicine, and his talents fur philosoph- 
ical poetry. It is generally believed that he perished, 
in the crater of ./Etna. Some suppose him to have 
been a disciple of Pythagoras or Aiehytas (Diog. 
Lacrt. viii, 54 sq.) ; others, of Parmenides. He cannot 
have been an immediate scholar of the first, inasmuch 
as Aristotle (Met. i, 3) represents him as contemporary 
with, I nit younger than Anaxagoras, and lecausc he 
appears to have been the master of Gorgias. His 
philosophy, which he described in a didactic poem, of 
which only fragments have come down to us, com- 
bined the elements of various systems, most nearly 
approaching that of Pythagoras and Heraclitus, but 
differing from the latter, principally, 1. Inasmuch as 
Empedocles more expressly recognises four elements, 
earth, water, air, and fire : these elements (compare 
his system, in this respect, with that of Anaxagoras) 
he affirmed not to be simple in their nature, and as- 
signed the most important place to fire. 2. Resides 
the principle of concord (epi\ta), opposed to that of dis- 
cord (veiKog) (the one being the source of union and 
good, the other of their opposites), he admitted into his 
system necessity also, to explain existing phenomena. 
To the first of these principles he attributed the origi- 
nal composition of the elements. The material world 
(< 7 <palpoc , //ty/<«) he believed, as a whole, to be divine, 
but in the sublunar portion of it he detected a consider- 
able admixture of evil and imperfection. lie taught 
that at some future day all things must again sink into 
chaos. He advanced a subtle and scarcely intelligible 
theory of the active and passive affections of things 
(comp. Plato, Menon. ed. Steph. p. 76, C. D. ; Arist. De 
Gener. et Corr. i, 8; Fragm. ap. Sturz. v, 117), and 
drew a distinction between the world as presented to 
our senses (icoapog aioSnjToc), and that which he pre- 
sumed to le the type of it, the intellectual world (kgo- 
poQ vogrhf). He looked for the principle of life in 
fire, admitting, at the same time, the existence of a 
Divine Being pervading the universe. Freni this su- 
perior intelligence he believed the elamones to emanate, 
to whose nature the human soul is allied. Man is a 
; fallen dmnon. There will be a return to unity, a trans- 
migration of souls, and a change of forms. The soul 
he defined to consist in a combination of the four de- 
ments (because cognition depends upon the similarity 
of the subject and object), and its seat he pronounced 
to be principally the blood” (Tennemann, Manual List. 
Phil. § 106). Lewes differs from all other historians 
respecting the place occupied by Empedocles, making 
bis system to include elements from the Pythagorean, 
Elcatic, Hcraclitic, and Anaxagorean systems (History 
of Philosophy, Lond. 1867, 2 vols. 8vo, i, 89 sq.). See 
Sturz, Empedocles A grigcntiniis, De Vita et Philosophid 
ejus exgosuit, Carminum Ileliqvias esc A ntiquis So ip tori- 
bus collegit, rcccnsuit, illnstrarit Er. Guil. Sturz (Lips. 
1805, Svo); J. G. Xeumanni Progr.de Empedocle Phi- 
losopho (Yiteh. 1730, fob); Lommatzsch, Die Weisheit 
des Emped. (Berlin, 1830); Stein, Emped. Agrigent. 
fragments (Bonn, 1852); Winnefchl. Die Philosophic 
des Emped. (Rastadt, 1862): Steinhart, in Ersch mill 
Gruber, A Vejem. Encykh p. s. v. Empedocles. 

Empiricism, Bmpirism, Empiric. Empiri- 
cism, in its primary meaning, signifies the method or 
habit of judging from observation or trial ; and an em- 
piric is one who forms his conclusions in this manner. 
Empiricism may thus be employed to denote either in- 
ductive reasoning, in which observation and experi- 
ment furnish the data for the conclusions- drawn by 
the reason, or that unscientific mode of procedure 
which accepts the phenomena as they are observed, 
i without analysis or accurate determination. In the 
former case the term is used in a good sense, and is 
equivalent to experimental science ; in the latter it is 
used in a bad sense, and this is its ordinary employ- 
I ment. 

| The relation of experience to science, and to art 


EMPIRICISM 


183 


EMPIRICISM 


or practice, is precisely exhibited by Aristotle in the 
opening chapter of his Metaphysics ; but the peculiar 
terseness of the Aristotelian phraseology renders ex- 
pansion and restatement of his positions necessary, in 
order to adapt them to modern views. 

Art, or systematic action, is founded upon observa- 
tion, but upon observation reduced to theory, or to 
consonance with theory. That is to say, observation 
furnishes the facts, but they must be co-ordinated and 
interpreted in order to constitute valid knowledge (sci- 
ence), or a reliable rule of action (art). If the obser- 
vations be indistinct or perplexed, or if they be not 
sufficiently numerous to establish a general conclu- 
sion, or if a general conclusion be drawn prematurely, 
the induction is deceptive, and obnoxious to the cen- 
sures passed by Lord Bacon upon the simple enumera- 
tion of examples (Any. Org. i, aph. Ixix, cv; Instaur. 
Si. Int. tom. ix, p. 14G; Distr. Op. p. 167, ed. Mon- 
tagu). The true nature of the induction required 
is briefly stated by Campanella : “ Inductio est argu- 
mentatio a partilms sufficienter enumeratis ad suum 
totuin universale.” What is a sufficient exposition 
of the particulars may be learned from the Second Book 
of the Novum Organon , or more satisfactorily from 
Whe well’s Phllosophg of the Inductive Sciences, Comte’s 
Political Philosophy , and Mill's Logic. 

When the observations are sufficiently multiplied 
and varied, and when they have been analyzed and 
sifted so as to eliminate all illusions, and everything 
which does not bear distinctly upon the point under 
consideration, then they justify a definite conclusion. 
This is the “ mnlliplicatio et vindeniiatio instemtiarum ” 
so strenuously urged by Lord Bacon. But, even in 
this case, the general experience authorizes a universal 
conclusion onty by. assuming a law latent under each 
of the concordant instances by which all are governed. 
In establishing or accepting the conclusion there is 
need for the introduction of a purely rational element 
— if none other, at least the principle that nature acts 
uniformly, and that what is true of all observed in- 
stances is true of all similar phenomena. Thus theory 
is needed to permit and to complete induction, or infer- 
ence from observation. 

This accumulation, collation, and appreciation of in- 
stances is disregarded by undisciplined and impatient 
minds. A few recurrences loosely noted, or a single 
undigested observation, is made the foundation for a 
universal conclusion, without reference to any rational 
principle. The designation derived from experience 
and inquiry is still retained, but, in consequence of 
want of validity in the process, and of method, relia- 
bility, and rationality in the corresponding practice, it 
receives an unfavorable import, and empiricism com- 
monly denotes that mode of reasoning which is based 
upon hast} r and inadequate observation, and which 
neglects scientific principle and scientific precision. 

This exposition of the derivation and deflection of 
the meaning is illustrated and confirmed by the his- 
tory of the term. In the middle of the 3d century be- 
fore Christ a revolution in medical practice was inau- 
gurated by Philinus of Cos and Sera pi on of Alexan- 
dria. They revolted against the maxims of the Dog- 
matists, and repudiated the course pursued by the 
Methodists of treating all cases of disease according to 
fixed theoretical rules. They observed the symptoms 
of disorders, and the specific effects of remedial agents ; 
they considered the idiosyncrasies of their patients as 
affected by climates and localities ; and they employed 
the therapeutics which had been found effectual in 
analogous instances. They recognised three kinds of 
experience : chance, experiment, and imitation, but re- 
lied principally upon the last, which is a sort of blind 
obseivation. They thus introduced into medical prac- 
tice the whole train of inductive reasoning, and were 
in consequence designated Empirics. The school flour- 
ished for nearly five centuries, and its duration attests 
its merit and success. It had started, however, with 


| sundiy hazardous hypotheses, such as the doctrine of 
Homoeopathy, and in its best period had trusted main- 
ly to disguised analogies, which were usually obscure, 
and too often delusive. The Empirics rejected for- 
mal science ; they contemned theoretical views and 
rational deductions, and thus drifted into close approx- 
imation to the Sceptics. Their original doctrine was 
an extravagance in the manner of its assertion, but it 
was a wholesome reaction against a more perilous ex- 
cess. With the succession of generations, however, 
their cardinal principle of depending exclusively on 
observation was pushed so far as to engender the wild- 
est fantasies. Ifence no confidence could be placed 
in their treatment of diseases. It was thus that the 
term Empiricism received the opprobrious signification 
which is habitually attached to it. The meaning of a 
word is perpetuated in the last perversion which it has 
received from popular use. 

The name originating in this way in the schools of 
medicine was readily transferred to the corresponding 
procedure in other departments of knowledge. Em- 
piricism is opposed to science in the same way that a 
paralogism is opposed to a syllogism : it is the abuse, 
or the imperfect use of a procedure which is valid when 
correctly pursued. It is confused observation devel- 
oped into unreliable induction. But the distortion of 
the process, and the consequent degradation of the 
word denoting the process, evince the partial agree- 
ment between empiricism and scientific reasoning. It 
i becomes, therefore, expedient to point out more ex- 
plicitly the relation which observation and experience 
bear to theory, or philosophical reasoning. 

Science is the systematic co-ordination of observed 
facts, and the exhibition of their dependence upon 
I general principles. Observation collects particulars, 
which should be compared and tested, so as to elimi- 
nate all discrepancies and all accidental agreements, 
and to disentangle from the complex phenomena the 
j single point of positive and habitual concordance. 
When this is adequately achieved, the regular associ- 
ation of the facts under consideration is established. 
This, however, provides only what Bacon designates 
axiomata media — those inductions which ascertain the 
character and direct connections of the phenomena. 
A further generalization is required ; these intermedi- 
ate axioms must be traced to precise laws. Such is 
the nature and procedure of strict inductive science, 
with which empiricism is more immediately contrast- 
ed, though it arose originally out of the antagonism to 
dogmatic deduction. The empiric disregards these 
careful comparisons and gradual approximations, and 
leaps at once from loosely-observed data, from casual 
coincidences, or from a few disconnected instances to 
a general conclusion. He has no principle to restrain 
him, no recognised law for his guidance. From the 
absence of all certainty, and the consequent liability 
to error, empiricism has come to denote rash and ig- 
norant generalization leading to hazardous and unrea- 
soning applications. 

Another important point demands attention. Cer- 
tain phenomena arc so complex and so inapprehensible 
by the processes of rigid observation, comparison, and 
experiment, that they scarcely admit of rigorously sci- 
entific treatment. Moreover, from the want of oppor- 
tunity for applying the methods of science, and from 
the multiplicity of concurrent, interacting, and irregu- 
larly varying influences involved in the production of 
the result, scientific induction and philosophical deduc- 
tion fail to include or to exclude everything which 
should he embraced or rejected. The subject either 
does not yet admit of scientific treatment, but must be 
governed by the suggestions of unanalyzed experi- 
ence, or there is a large discordance between the sci- 
entific conclusions and the- observed facts. In these 
cases the indications of experience cannot be disre- 
garded, and the procedure, to he adopted, must be in 
greater or less measure empirical. History, politics. 


EMS CONGRESS 


184 


EMS CONGRESS 


social organization, agriculture, and many of the ap- 
plication." of physical science to human requirements 
demand, in a greater or less degree, this subordination 
of scientific results to observed facts. But the insuffi- 
ciency of the procedure should be recognised ; for em- 
piricism, even in its most favorable form, is tentative 
and problematical, because it is the renunciation of the 
guidance of the reason, and the acceptance of imper- 
fect or imperfectly-digested observation for the pre- 
scriptions of ascertained and immutable law. Em- 
piricism is available only in consimili casu ; and, as this 
exact similitude can never be assured, but is always 
precarious, it is necessarily attended with insecurity. 
If the conditions or concomitances vary so as to mod- 
ify the result, it is a blind leader of the blind. The 
only protection in changed circumstances, or under 
novel conditions, is a knowledge of the general princi- 
ples which govern the facts, and this knowledge is ob- 
tained only from science, inductive or deductive. The- 
ory and experience have distinct but associated func- 
tions : theory is the abstract rationale of the phenom- 
ena: experience is their undiseriniinating representa- 
tion : theory degenerates into rash inexperience when 
not checked by careful observation; experience runs 
into wild and pernicious fantasies when not illumina- 
ted by' speculative discernment. The two must be 
combined and conciliated in order to afford any abso- 
lute confidence in the rectitude of our conclusions, and 
the procedure founded thereon. If they be separated, 
and to the extent to which they are separated, experi- 
ence is valid only in matters of mere routine ; theory 
or science is always required uinler novel combina- 
tions. Theory, unregulated by experience, is as ar- 
bitrary and capricious as experience unenlightened 
by reason, and misleads hopelessly, because it never 
awakens any suspicion of the possibility of error. But 
theory, which systematizes the conclusions draw n from 
an adequate range and degree of observation, furnishes 
guidance under all changes of circumstance ; while 
empiricism only misleads and betrays in every case 
when it is necessary to deviate in any respect from a 
procedure already adopted and approved. 

Empiricism is thus at all times an irrational pro- 
cedure, though it may furnish a practical rule within 
a very limited sphere. Theory may beguile, in conse- 
quence of its imperfect constitution or rash applica- 
tion, but is always requisite to insure the recognition 
of established law 7 , and obedience to the immutable 
prescriptions of reason in the individual or in the order 
of creation. An empirical procedure may often be in- 
dispensable, but, when most necessary, it is provisional 
only. A theoretical procedure may be demanded be- 
fore adequate experience has been acquired, but this 
must be confirmed or reformed by the observation of 
facts. It is only when theor} 7 is sustained by facts, 
and facts are explained by theory, that knowledge be- 
comes entirely trustworthy. Many departments of 
practical knowledge are not yet, and may never be, 
capable of thorough scientific organization. In these 
we must continue to he guided by empirical conclu- 
sions ; but they are received, not because they 7- are suf- 
ficient, but because nothing better is attainable. Em- 
piricism is, therefore, always inadequate, and usually 
deceptive. (G.F. 11.) 

Ems Congress, a meeting of plenipotentiaries of 
the archbishops of Mentz, Cologne, Treves, and Salz- 
burg, held in the watering-place of Ems, in August, 
178G, for the purpose of defining the rights belonging 
to bishops and archbishops, and of opposing the exor- 
bitant demands of the papal nuncio. The agreement 
which was arrived at, and which consists of 23 arti- 
cles, is called the Ems Punctation. The archbish- 
ops of Germany, as well as the emperors, had long 
been dissatisfied with the endeavors made by the popes, 
under the pretext of securing the execution of the de- 
crees of the Council of Trent, to steadily enlarge the 
rights of papal nuncios and legates in Germany et 


the expense of the bishops. A serious conflict was 
brought oil by the elector Karl Theodor of Bavaria, 
who, in order to supersede as much as possible the 
episcopal jurisdiction of other princes of the empire, 
such as tlie archbishops of Salzburg and Cologne, over 
his subjects, induced the Pope to appoint a papal nun- 
cio at the court of Munich. The archbishop of Salz- 
burg in 1785 requested the archbishop of Mentz, as 
primate of the German Catholic Church, to avert the 
new danger threatening the authority of the archbish- 
ops. The primate remonstrated in Borne, and his ex- 
ample W'as soon followed by the bishops of Eichstiidt 
and Freising. But Pope Pius VI declared that the 
new r nuncio in Munich, Z’oglio, would be clothed with 
the same authorit} 7 wdiich had heretofore been exer- 
cised by the nuncio in Cologne. The archbishops of 
Mentz and Salzburg appealed to the emperor Joseph 
II for aid against this encroachment of the Pope upon 
their rights. The emperor replied, Oct. 12, 1785, that 
the Pope would at once be notified that the emperor 
would never allow 7 an infringement upon the diocesan 
rights of the German bishops. Nevertheless, the new 
nuncio Zoglio made his appearance in Munich in 
March, 178G; informed all archbishops and bishops 
whose dioceses embraced part of Bavaria of his ar- 
rival; exercised all the prerogatives which the Pope 
claimed for his nuncios ; and even appointed a sub- 
nuncio at Diisseldorf. The archbishop of Cologne re- 
monstrated against these proceedings to the emper- 
or, and the latter ordered the elector Karl Theodor to 
forbid the nuncio the further exercise of functions 
which did not belong to him. At the same time, the 
archbishops of Cologne, Treves, Mentz, and Salzburg 
forbade their subjects to receive any orders from the 
nuncios of Munich and Cologne. In order to organize 
a combined resistance to the papal encroachments, the 
archbishop of Mentz invited the archbishops of Co- 
logne, Treves, and Salzburg to send deputies to a con- 
gress to be held at Ems. The invitation was accepted, 
and accordingly the Ems congress met in August, 
178G. It was composed of the assistant bishop lleimes, 
of Mentz, the official Beck, of Treves, the official Von 
Tautphsens, of Cologne, and the consistorial councillor 
Bonike, of Salzburg. These deputies, on the 25th of 
August, agreed upon the Ems Punctation, the most im- 
portant points of which are the follow ing : 1. All those 
papal prerogatives and reservations which were un- 
known in the first centuries, but derived from the 
pseudo-Isidorian decretals, must now be abandoned. 
2. The bishops, having received from Christ the power 
to bind and to loose, the persons living within their 
dioceses must not pass over their immediate ecclesi- 
astical superiors in order to have recourse to Borne. 
No exemptions must any more be allowed except 
such as have been confirmed by the emperors. The 
members of monastic orders are forbidden to receive 
any orders from their generals, or any superiors living 
outside of Germany. 3. As the bishops have the pow- 
er to grant dispensations, the so-called facilitates quin- 
quennales shall no longer be asked from the papal 
court ; and the bulls, briefs, and rescripts of the popes, 
as well as all the declarations, rescripts, and orders of 
the Roman congregations, shall not be received in Ger- 
many w'itliout their express recognition by the bish- 
ops. 4. The nuncios shall have no ecclesiastical juris- 
diction, but shall be merely ambassadors of the Pope. 

The Punctation, signed by the four archbishops, was 
sent to the emperor Joseph, w ho assured the archbishops 
of his assistance, but also declared, perhaps influenced 
by the nuncio Caprara at Vienna, that the execution 
would depend upon an agreement between the arch- 
bishop on the one hand, and the exempts, the suf- 
fragan bishops, and the government on the other. 
The papal party, in the mean while, endeavored to ex- 
cite the jealousy of the bishops against the four arch- 
bishops, charging the latter with an intention of ex- 
tending their rights at the expense of those of the 


EMSER 


185 


ENCLENIA 


bishops. The archbishop of Mentz was in particular 
charged with a desire to establish a primatical author- 
ity over all archbishops and bishops of Germany, i 
Among the bishops who came forward to attack the i 
Punctation, those of Spires, Hildesheim, and Wurz- 
burg were prominent. Soon particular interests caused j 
disagreement among the signers of the Punctation. 
The archbishop of Mentz approached the Pope with 
a request to have baron von Dal berg appointed his ! 
coadjutor ; the archbishop of Treves (1787) appealed to 
Pome for a renewal of the facultates quinquennales ; and 
finally, in 1789, all the four archbishops declared that 
they desired a settlement of the controversy, and that 
the} 7 recognised the right of the Pope to send nuncios 
and to grant dispensations. The literature on the 
Congress and the Punctation of Ems is very copious. 
The results of the congress were at once published in 
the work Resultate des Emser Congresses (Francf. 1787) 
[also in Die neuesten Grundlagen der deutsch-kath. Kir - 
chen- Verfassung, Stuttgardt, 1821]. The official reply 
of Pome is entitled Responsio ad Metropolitanos Mogunt. 
Trevir. Colon, et Salhb. super Nuntiaturis (Romae, 1789). 
See also Neudecker, in Herzog, Real-Encgklop. iii, 784 ; 
Munch, frescA.tfes Emser Congresses ; Pacca (papal nun- 
cio at Cologne), Ilistor. Denhcurdigkciten (Augsburg, 
1832) ; Stigloher, Die Errichtung der pdbstl. Nuntiatur 
in Muncken und der Emser Congress (liatisbon, 18GG). 
(A.J.S.) 

Emser, Hieronymus, a Roman Catholic divine, 
and one of the most violent of Luther’s opponents in 
the Reformation, was born at Ulm March 2G, 1477. 
After having begun his studies at Tubingen, he went 
to continue them at Basle, where he applied him- 
self to jurisprudence, theology, and Hebrew 7 . He ac- 
companied cardinal Raymond tie Gurk, who had ap- 
pointed him his chaplain and secretary, through Ger- 
many and Italy in 1500-1502. Some time after he 
became lecturer at Erfurt, which he quitted (1504) to 
reside at the University of Leipzic, where he taught 
canonical law*. About the same time, George, duke 
of Saxony, took him as his private secretary. The 
duke, w ho had a desire to procure the canonization of 
bishop Benno, of Meissen, employed Emser to visit a 
number of convents, especially in Bohemia, to collect 
information concerning Benno; and in 1510 sent him 
to Rome. On his return from Rome he received from 
the duke tw 7 o prebends, at Dresden and Meissen. 
About this time he also appears to have been conse- 
crated a priest. His recovery from a severe sickness 
he ascribed to the intercession of bishop Benno, and 
was thereby induced to write a eulogy of him {Divi 
Bennonis Vita , Lips. 1512). With Luther, whose re- 
formatory zeal had already begun to attract attention, 
Emser remained on good terms until the time of the 
Leipzig disputation (1519). Luther called him Emser 
nosier {our Emser), and w r as kindly received by Emser 
when he had to preach before duke George at Dres- 
den. The literary controversy between Emser and 
Luther commenced soon after the Leipzic disputation 
with a letter from Emser to Dr. Zack, provost at Leit- 
meritz,in w'hich the opinion w r as expressed that Luther 
had nothing in common w ith the Bohemian Hussites, 
and an intimation w r as given that Luther w r as ready to 
abandon his reformatory view's. As Emser, who was 
descended from a noble family, used in this letter his 
escutcheon, the forepart of a he-goat, Luther address- 
ed his very bitter reply to the “ Wild-goat Emser” {ad 
AEgocerotem Emserannm, Wittenberg, 1519), and in his 
subsequent writings generally called him “the he- 
goat of Leipzic,” or “ He-goat Emser.” In his reply, 
Emser called Luther's theology “novel and cynic,” 
and represented Luther’s reformatory labors as merely 
the result of the jealousy of the Augustinian monks 
against the Dominicans. Emser also attacked Carl- 
stadt, Zwingle, Tirkheimer, and other reformers; w T as 
soon joined by Eek, and thus helped to kindle a vio- 
lent controversy all through Germany. In 1520* Lu- 


ther burned Emser’s writings along w 7 ith the papal 
bull and the decretals. As Emser’s works were al- 
most wholly personal invectives, the interest in them 
soon ceased, and in the history of the Reformation 
they are of little significance. As duke George for- 
bade Luther’s translation of the Bible, Emser, in 1527, 
published another German translation made from the 
Vulgate. Emser branded Luther’s version as a horri- 
ble corruption ; but at present even the Roman Cath- 
olic writers of Germany acknowledge that Emser’s 
version is of no value, and, in a literary point of view, 
greatly inferior to that of Luther. Emser died Nov. 
8, 1527, where and how is not knowm. The titles of 
the numerous works of Emser may be found in Wal- 
dau, Nachrickten von Emser' s Lebcn und Schriften (Aus- 
pach, 1783). See Neudecker, in Herzog, Real-EncgH. 
iii, 782 ; Hoefer, Nour. Biog . Gener. xvi, 17. (A. J. S.) 

En- (Heb. Eyn-, 'p^, constr. of *pr, a fountain ), a 
prefix to many names of places in Heb. (e. g. En-gedi, 
En-gammin, En-dor, En-haddah, En-hazor, En-harod, 
En-mishpah, En-eglaim, En-shemesh, En-rogel, En- 
tannim [Neh. ii, 13], En-tappuah) ; all so called from 
a living spring in the vicinity ; and corresponding to 
the Arabic prefix Ain- (Robinson, Researches , iii, 225), 
in which language, as also in the Syriac and Ethiopic, 
it has the same signification ; in two instances (Josh, 
xxi, 16 ; Num. xxxiv, 11) it stands alone as the name 
of a place (q. d. “the spring”); also in the dual, Exam 
(q. v.), and plural Anim (q. v.), the latter likewise in 
the Aramaic form Enon (q. v.). See Aix. 

Enaim. See Exam. 

E'nam (Ileb. with the art. ha-Eynam' , Cprfl, 
doubtless a contraction for the two springs; 

Sept. *Hvaip v. r. ’ liven ig and Moictm', Vulg. Enaiin), 
a city in the lowlands of Judah, mentioned between 
Tappuah and Jarmuth (Josh, xv, 34). From its men- 
tion with towns (Jarmuth and Eshtaol for instance) 
w'hich are known to have been near Timnath, this is 
very probably the place in the “entrance” of which 
(perhaps at a fork of the road) Tamar sat to intercept 
her father-in-law on his way to Timnath (Gen. xxxviii, 
14), (Zp3p* nr.O, pethach Eyna'yim , i. e. doorway of 
Enaim , or the double spring ; Sept, at ttuXcu Aivciv , 
Vulg. bivium itlneris, A.V. “an open place;” comp. 
Reland, PaUest, p. 7G1). Eusebins and Jerome {Ono- 
mast. s. v. 'H vedp, Enaiin) state that it w r as “still a 
village Bethenim (B eSevip) near the terebinth ;” mean- 
ing probably “Abraham’s oak,” 22 miles S. of Jerusa- 
lem (ib. s. v. ’Antcdj, Arbocli), near Hebron (Robinson, 
Res. ii, 443). Schwarz in like manner identifies Enam 
with “the village Beth-Ani , distant 2^ English miles 
from Saafir” {Palest, p. 102); meaning apparently 
Beit-Anvr, which is laid dow n on Van de Velde’s Map 
at that distance S.AV. of Bir es-Zafaraneh, in the re- 
gion N.E. of Hebron. But this site is appropriated to 
Beth-anoth (q. v.), with which the similarity of names 
has doubtless caused these authors to confuse Enam. 
The place in question lay in the group of cities situated 
N.W. of Hebron, on the border of the tribe of Dan 
(Keil, Comment, on Josh, in loc.). It is perhaps the 
present Deir el-Butm , with a well adjoining, laid down 
by Van de Velde {Map') a little beyond Deir Dubban, 
N. of Eleutheropolis. 

E'nan (Heb. Eynan , born at a fountain, q. 
d.fontanus; Sept. Aivciv), the fathe ; r of Ahira, which 
latter was phylarch of the tribe ot Naphtnli at the Ex- 
ode (Num. i, 15 ; ii, 29; vii, 78, 83; x, 2i). B.C. ante 
1657. See also Hazar-Enan. 

Enas'ibus (Evcanfioc, Vulgate Eliasib), given (1 
Esdr. ix, 34) as the name of one of “the sons of Moani” 
who had married a Gentile wife after the exile, in 
place of the Eliasiiib (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra 
x, 3G). 

Encaenia {tyKaivia). (1.) When heathen temples 


ENCAMP 


186 


EXCAMP 


were converted to Christian use, they were purified by 
a solemn dedication, called Encania , and by the sign 
of the cross; they also received new and appropriate 
names (Kiddle, An tiq. vi, 2). (2.) At a later period en- 
cienia denoted festivals kept in memory of the dedica- 
tion of churches, hi the church of Jerusalem, built by 
Constantine to the honor of our Saviour, it was custom- 
ary to observe an anniversary festival which lasted 
eight days, during which divine service was perform- 
ed. The practice was soon adopted by other churches. 
In England the first Saxon bishops allowed the people 
liberty on the annual feasts of the dedication of their 
churches, to build themselves booths round the church, 
and to entertain themselves with eating and drinking. 
In German such a feast is called Kirchueihe , church- 
consecration, whence the English name Ciiurch- 
wake. The ceremonies and solemnities instituted at 
Oxford in honor of founders and benefactors of col- 
leges are’ called encomia . — Bingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. 
xx, ch. viii, § 1. See Dedication. 

Encamp (ins «n, chanali , to decline, e. g. of the day, 
Judg. xix, 9, i. e. evening; hence to “pitch” a tent, 
Gen. xxvi, 17, especially to 11 camp ” down at night, as 
often rendered), among the Hebrews, primarily de- 
noted the resting of an army or company of travelers 
at night (Exod. xiii, 20; Num. i, 50; comp. Exod. 
xvi, 13; Gen. xxxii, 21), and hence the derivative 
noun machaueh ', camp , once riStTa, macha- 

nQth 2 Kings vi, 8) is applied to the army or caravan 
when on its march (Exod. xiv, 19; Josh, x, 5; xi, 4; 
Gen. xxxii, 7, 8). See Mahanaim. Sometimes the 
verb refers to the casual arrangement of a siege (Psa. 
xxix, 3) or campaign (1 Sam. iv, 1), and occasionally 
it is extended to the signification of a permanent abode 
(Isa. xxix, 1). Among nomadic tribes war never at- 
tained the dignity of a science, and their encampments 
were consequently devoid of all the appliances of more 
systematic warfare. See War. 

1. The description of the camp of the Israelites, on 
their march from Egypt (Num. ii, iii), supplies the 
greatest amount of information on the subject : what- 
ever else may be gleaned is from scattered hints. The 
tabernacle, corresponding to the chieftain’s tent of an 
ordinary encampment, was placed in the centre; and 
around and facing it (Num. ii, 3), arranged in four 
grand divisions, corresponding to the four points of the 
compass (but not necessarily in the strict quadrangu- 
lar form usually represented, since modern Arab cara- 
vans are ranged at night in a nearly circular manner), 
lay the host of Israel, according to their standards 
(Num. i, 52; ii, 2). On the east the post of honor was 
assigned to the tribe of Judah, and round its standard 
rallied the tribes of Issaehar andZebulon, descendants 
of the sons of Leah. On the south lay Kcuben and 
Simeon, the representatives of Leah, and the children 
of Gad, the son of her handmaid. Kachcl’s descend- 
ants were encamped on the western side of the taber- 
nacle, the chief place being assigned to the tribe of 
Ephraim. To this position of Ephraim, Manassoh, and 
Benjamin, allusions are made in Judg. v, 11, and Psa. 
Ixxx, 2. On the north were the tribes of Dan and 
Napthali, the children of Billiah, and the tribe of Ash- 
er, Gad’s younger brother. All these were encamped 
around their standards, each according to the ensign 
of the house of his fathers. In the centre, round the 
tabernacle, and with no standard but the cloudy or 
fiery pillar which rested over it, were the tents of the 
priests and Levites. The former, with Moses and 
Aaron at their head, were encamped on the eastern 
side. On the south were the Kohathites, who had 
charge of the ark, the table of shew bread, the altars 
and vessels of the sanctuary. The Gershonites were 
on the west, and when on the march carried the taber- 
nacle and its lighter furniture; while the Merarites, 
who were encamped on the north, had charge of its 
heavier appurtenances. The order of encampment 


was preserved on the march (Xum.ii, 17), the signal 
for which was given by a blast of the two silver trum- 
pets (Num. x, 5). The details of this account supply 
Prof. Blunt with sonic striking illustrations of the un- 
designed coincidences of the books of Moses ( Undes . 
Coincid. p. 75-86). 

In this description of the order of the encampment 
no mention is made of sentinels, who, it is reasonable 
to suppose, were placed at the gates (Exod. xxxii, 26, 
27) in the four quarters of the camp. This was evi- 
dently the case in the camp of the Levites (comp. 1 
Chron. ix, 18, 24 ; 2 Chron. xxxi, 2). 

The sanitary regulations of the camp of the Israel- 
ites were enacted for the twofold purpose of preserving 
the health of the vast multitude, and the purity of the 
camp as the dwelling-place of God (Num. v, 3; Deut. 
xxiii, 14). With this object the dead were buried 
without the camp (Lev. x N 4, 5); lepers were excluded 
till their leprosy departed from them (Lev. xiii, 46 ; 
xiv, 3 ; Num. xii, 14, 35), as were all who were visited 
with loathsome diseases (Lev. xiv, 3). All who were 
defiled by contact with the dead, whether these were 
slain in battle cr not, were kept without the camp for 
seven days (Num. xxxi, 19). Captives taken in war 
were compelled to remain for a while outside (Num. 
xxxi, 19; Josh, vi, 23). The ashes from the sacrifices 
were poured out without the camp at an appointed 
place, whither all uncleanness was removed (Dent, 
xxiii, 10, 32), and vhcrethe entrails, skins, horns, etc., 
and all that was not offered in sacrifice, were burnt 
(Lev. iv, 11, 12 ; vi, 11 : viii, 17). 

The execution of criminals took place without the 
camp (Lev. xxiv, 14 ; Num. xv, 35, 36 ; Josh, vii, 24), 
as did the burning of the young bullock for the sin- 
offering (Lev. iv, 1*2). These circumstances combined 
explain Heb. xiii, 12, and John xix, 17, 20. 

2. The encampment of the Israelites in the desert 
left its traces in their subsequent history. The tem- 
ple, so late as the time of Hezekiah, was still “the 
camp of Jehovah” (2 Chron. xxxi, 2; comp. Psalm 
lxxviii, 28); and the multitudes who flocked to David 
were “ a great camp, like the camp of God” (1 Chron. 
xii, 22). 

High ground appears to have been uniformly select- 
ed for the position of a camp, whether it were on a hill 
or mountain side, or in an inaccessible pass (Jiulg. vii, 
18). So, in Judg. x, 17, the Ammonites encamped in 
Gilead, while Israel pitched in Mizpch. The very 
names are significant. r lhe camps of Saul and the 
Thilistines were alternately in Gil eah, the “height” 
of Benjamin, and the pass of Michmash (1 Sam. xiii, 
2, 3, 16, 23). When Goliath defied the host of Israel, 
the contending annies were encamped on hills on ei- 
ther side of the valley of Elah (3 Sam. xvii, 3) : and in 
the fatal battle of Gilboa Saul’s position on the me un- 
tain was stormed by the Thilistines who had pitched 
in Shuncm (1 Sam. xxviii, 4), on the ether side of the 
valley of Jezreel. The carelessness of the Midianites 
in encamping in the plain exposed them to the night 
surprise by Gideon, and resulted in their consequent 
discomfiture (Judg. vi, 33; vii, 8, 12). But another 
important consideration in fixing upon a position for a 
camp was the propinquity of water ; hence it is found 
that in most instances camps were pitched near a 
spring or well (Judg. vii, 3; 1 Macc. ix, 33). r I he Is- 
raelites at Mount Gilboa pitched 1 v the fountain in 
Jezreel (1 Sam. xxix, 1), while the Philistines encamp- 
ed at Aphek, the name of which indicates the existence 
of a stream of water in the neighborhood, which ren- 
dered it a favorite place of encampment (1 Sam. iv, 1 ; 

1 Kings xx, 26; 2 Kings xiii, 17). In his pursuit of 
the Amalekites David halted his men by the brock 
Ilcsor, and there left a detachment with the camp fur- 
niture (3 Sam. xxx, 9). One of Joshua's decisive en- 
gagements with the nations of Canaan was fought at 
the waters of Merom, where he surprised the confeder- 
ate camp (Josh, xi, 5, 7 ; comp. Judg. v, 19, 23). Gide- 


ENCAMP 


187 


ENCAMP 


on, before attacking the Midianites, encamped beside 
the well of Harod (Judg. vii, 1), and it was to draw 
water from the well at Bethlehem that David’s three 
mighty men cut their way through the host of the 
Philistines (2 Sam. xxiii, 16). 

The camp was surrounded by the Jibe'S, magalah' 
(1 Sam. xvii, 20), or bj2*2, mo gal' (1 Sam. xxvi, 5, 7), 
which some, and Thenius among them, explain as an 
earthwork thrown up round the encampment, -others as 
the barrier formed by the baggage- wagons. The et}'- 
mology of the word points merely to the circular shape 
of the inclosure formed by the tents of the soldiers 
pitched around their chief, whose spear marked his 
resting-place (1 Sam. xxvi, 5, 7 see Thomson, Land 
and Booh , ii, 20 sq.), and it might witli propriety be 
used in either of the above senses, according as the 
camp was lixed or temporary. We know that, in the 
case of a siege, the attacking army, if possible, sur- 
rounded the place attacked (1 Maec. xiii, 43), and drew 
about it a line of circumvallation (P.7 “^jdageh', 2 Kings 
xxv, 1), which was marked bv a breastwork of earth 
*2, mesillah Isa. Ixii, 10: Itbbb, $olelali\ Ezek. 
xxi, 27 [22] ; comp. Job xix, 12), for the double pur- 
pose of preventing the escape of the besieged and of 
protecting the besiegers from their sallies. But there 
was not so much need of a formal intrenchment, as 
but few instances occur in which engagements were 
fought in the camps themselves, and these only when 
the attack was made at night. Gideon’s expedition 
against the Midianites took place in the early morning 
(Judg. vii, 19), the time selected by Saul for his attack 
upon Nahash (1 Sam. xi, 11), and by David for sur- 
prising the Amalekites (1 Sam. xxx, 17 ; comp. Judg. 
ix, 33). To guard against these night attacks, senti- 
nels (T"!*2VJ, shomerim') were posted (Judg. vii, 20; 

1 Mace. xii, 27) round the camp, and the neglect of 
this precaution by Zebah and Zalmunua probably led 
to their capture by Gideon and the ultimate defeat of 
their army (Judg. vii, 19). 

The valley which separated the hostile camps was 
generally selected as the fighting ground (IT! w, sadeh' , 

the battle-field,” 1 Sam. iv, 2 ; xiv, 15 ; 2 Sam. xviii, 
6), upon which the contest was decided, and hence the 
valleys of Palestine have played so conspicuous a part 
in its history (Josh, viii, 13; Judg. vi, 33; 2 Sam. v, j 


22 ; viii, 13, etc.). When the fighting men went forth 
to the place of marshaling (!"!2T' , *2, maarahah' , 1 Sam. 
j xvii, 20), a detachment was left to protect the camp 
and baggage (1 Sam. xvii, 22; xxx, 24). The beasts 
i of burden were probably tethered to the tent pegs (2 
Kings vii, 10; Zech. xiv, 15). 

The ITn*9, machaneh ', or movable encampment, is 
distinguished from the -2*2, matstsab or netsib ' 

(2 Sam. xxiii, 14 ; 1 Chron. xi, 16), which appears to 
have been a standing camp, like those which Jehosha- 
phat established throughout Judah (2 Chron. xvii, 2), 
or an advanced post in an enemy’s country (1 Sam. xiii, 
17 ; 2 Saul, viii, G), from which skirmishing parties 
made their predatory excursions and ravaged the crops. 
It was in resisting one of these expeditions that Sham- 
mah won himself a name among David's heroes (2 
Sam. xxiii, 12). Machaneh is still farther distinguish- 
ed from "'22*2, mibtsar “ a fortress” or “ walled 
town” (Num. xiii, 19). 

Camps left behind then) a memorial in the name of 
the place where they were situated, as among our- 
selves (comp. Chester , etc., from the Lat.crts/m). Ma- 
haneh-Dan (Judg. xiii, 25) was so called from the en- 
campment of the Danitcs mentioned in Judg. xviii, 12. 
The more important camps at Gilgal (Josh, v, 10; ix,. 
G) and Shiloh (Josh, xviii, 9 ; Judg. xxi, 12, 19) left no 
such impress; the military traditions of these places 
were eclipsed by the greater splendor of the religious 
associations which surrounded them. (See Ker Por- 
ter, Travels in Persia, ii, 147 sq., 300 sq. ; Bhodes, Tent- 
I fe and Encampment of Armies in ancient and modem 
Times, Lond. 1858.) — Smith, s. v. 

Among the Ancient Egyptians, “the field encamp- 
ment was either a square or a parallelogram, with a 
principal entrance in one of the faces, and near the 
certre was the general’s tent and those of the princi- 
pal officers. The general’s tent was sometimes sur- 
rounded by a double rampart or fosse inclosing two 
distinct areas, the outer one containing three tents, 
probably of the next in command, or of the officers on 
i the staff; and the guards slept or watched in the open 
air. Other tents were pitched outside these inclosures ; 
and near the external circuit a space was set apart for 
feeding horses and beasts of burden, and another for 
ranging the chariots and baggage. It was near the 
general’s tent, and within the same area, that the al- 



Modern Arab Encampment in the Desert. 


ENCHANTMENT 


18S 


ENCYCLICA 


tars of the gods, or whatever related to religious mat- 
ters, the standards, and the military chest, were kept ; 
and the sacred emblems were deposited beneath a can- 
opy within an inclostire similar to that of the general’s 
tent” (Wilkinson, i, 409, abridgm.). 

Enchantment stands in the Auth.Vers. as the 
representative of several Heb. words : usually some 
form of Una, nachaslt (2 Kings xvii, 17 ; xxi, 6; 2 
Chron. xxxiii, G 5 Lev. xix, 26; Deut. xviii, 10 ; Num. 
xxiii, 23; xxiv, 1), literally to whisper a spell, hence 
to practice divination in general; 122 H 7 , lachash' (Ec- 
cles. x, 11), of cognate form and syndication, especial- 
ly incantation ; lut , literally to muffle up, hence to 

use magic arts (Exod. vii, 11, 22; viii, 7, 18); 
anan , literally to cover with a cloud, hence to practice 
sorcery (Jer. xxvii, 9) ; and c ^ a ^ ar \ to bind, i. e. 
with a spell, to charm (Isa. xlvii, 9, 12). The follow- 
ing are the specific forms which the black art assumed 
among the Hebrews. See also Amulet; Divination. 

1. latim ', or lehathn , Exod. vii, 11, 

22 ; viii, 7 ; Sept. tyappaKtai (Grotius compares the 
word with the Greek Xircii ) ; secret arts, from 13*17, to 
cover ; though others incorrectly connect it with E3il7, 
a flame , or the glittering blade of a sword, as though 
it implied a sort of dazzling cheironomv which de- 
ceives spectators. Several versions render the word 
by “whisperings,” insusurrationes , but it seems to be 
a more general word, and hence is used of the various 
means (some of them no doubt of a quasi-scientific 
character) by uhich the Egyptian chartummim imposed 
on the credulity of Pharaoh. See Magician. 

2. — ! 3, keshaphim' ; Sept. < pappaicttai , pappara 
(2 Kings ix, 22 ; Mic. v, 12 ; Nah. iii, 4) ; Vulg. rcnc- 
fleia , maleflcia ; “ maleficae artes,” “pnestigiay ’ “mut- 
tered spells.” Hence it is sometimes rendered by 
tTraoiOai, incantations , as in Isa. xlvii, 9, 12. The be- 
lief in the power of certain formulas was universal in 
the ancient world. Thus there were carmina to evoke 
the tutelary gods out of a city (Macrob. SatumaL iii, 
9), others to devote hostile armies (Tic/.), others to raise 
the dead (Maimon. De Idol, xi, 15 ; Senec. (Edip. 547), 
or bind the gods {dtegoi Oeior) and men (yEseli. Fur . 
331), and even influence the heavenly bodies (Ovid, 
Met . vii, 207 sq. ; xii, 263; “ Te quoque Luna traho,” 
Virg. Eel. viii ; sEn. iv, 489 • Ilor. Epod. v, 45). Tliey 
were a recognised part of aneient medicine, even 
among the Jews, who regarded certain sentences of 
the law as efficacious in healing. The Greeks used 
them as one of the five chief resources of pharmacy 
(Find. Pgth. iii, 8,9; Soph. Aj. 582), especially in ob- 
stetrics (Plat. Thecet. p. 145) and mental diseases (Ga- 
len,/^ Sanitat.tucndd, i, 8). Homer mentions them 
as used to check the flow of blood ( Od . xix, 456), and 
Cato even gives a charm to cure a disjointed limb {De 
lie Rust. 160; comp. I’lin. II. N . xxviii, 2). The be- 
lief in charms is still all but universal in uncivilized 
nations; see Lane’s Modem Egypt, i, 300, 306, etc. ; ii, 
177, etc. ; Beeckman’s Voyage to Borneo , eh. ii ; Merol- 
ler's Congo (in Pinkerton's Voyages , xvi, p. 221, 273) ; 
Hue’s China, i, 223 ; ii, 326 ; Taylor's New Zealand , and 
Livingstone’s Afrca , passim, etc. ; and hundreds of 
such remedies still exist, and are considered efficacious 
among the uneducated. See Incantation. 

3. lechashim' (Eecl. n, 11), Sept. xpiOvpta/toc, 
is especially used of the charming of serpents, Jer. viii, 
17 (comp. Psa. 1 viii, 5 ; Ecclus. xii,13; Eecl. x, 11; Lu- 
can, ix,891 — a parallel to “cantando riimpituranguis,” 
and “ Vipereas rumpo verbis et carmine fauces,” Ov. 
Metam. 1. c.). Maimonides {De Idol, xi, 2) expressly 
defines an enchanter as one “who uses strange and 
meaningless words, by which he imposes on the folly 
of the credulous. They say, for instance, that if one 
utter the words before a serpent or scorpion it will do j 


no harm” (Carpzov, Annot. in Godwynum, , iv, 11). An 
account of the Marsi, who excelled in this art, is given 
by Augustine {ad Gen. ix, 28), and of the Psylli by Ar- 
nobitis {ad Nat. ii, 32) ; and they are alluded to. by a 
host of other authorities (Pliny, vii, 2 ; xxviii, 6 ; gEli- 
an, II. A . i, 57 ; Virg. sEn. vii, 750 ; Sil. Ital. viii, 495. 
They were called , 0<ptocid>KTai'). The secret is still 
understood in the East (Lane, ii, 106). See Charm. 

4. The word Q^np, nechashim' , is used of the en- 
chantments sought by Balaam (Num. xxiv, 1). It 
properly alludes to ophiomancy, but in this place has a 
general meaning of endeavoring to gain omens (Sept. 
tic ovvdvTgoiv roiq otiovoig). See Soothsayer. 

5. nnn, che'her , is used for magic (Isa. xlvii, 9, 12). 

It means generally the process of acquiring power over 
some distant object or person ; but this word seems 
also to have been sometimes used expressly of serpent 
charmers, for B. Sol. Jarchi, on Deut. xvii, 11, defines 
the to be one “who congregates serpents 

and scorpions into one place.” See Magic. 

Any resort to these methods of imposture was strict- 
ly forbidden in Scripture (Lev. xix, 26; Isa. xlvii, 9, 
etc.), but to eradicate the tendency is almost impossi- 
ble (2 Kings xvii, 17 ; 2 Chron. xxxiii, 6), and we find 
it still flourishing at the Christian *era (Acts xiii, 6, 8 ; 
viii, 9, 11, yoprua ; Gal. v, 20; Rev. ix, 21). See 
Witchcraft. 

The chief “sacramenta damioniaca” were a rod, a 
magic circle, dragon's eggs, certain herbs, or “insane 
roots,” like the henbane, etc. The fancy of poets, both 
ancient and modern, has been exerted in giving lists of 
them (Ovid and Hor. L c. ; Shakspeare's Macbeth , Act 
iv, 1 ; Kirke White’s Gondoline ; Southey’s Curse of 
Kehama, cant, iv, etc.).— Smith, s. v. See Sorcery. 
Encinas. See Enzinas. 

Encolpium. See Reliquary'. 

Encratites (EyK-prtTfte, ’E yKparirai, Continent es), 
a name given by several Church fathers (Iremeus, 
Eusebius, Epiphanius, Jerome, Augustine, Theodorct) 
to a particular Gnostic sect, but which, in the opinion 
of most of the modern Church historians (Neander, 
Ilase), either designates collectively several Gnostic 
sects, or, in general, the tendency of Gnostic asceticism 
in the ancient Church. The Encratites condemned 
marriage, forbade the eating of flesh or drinking of 
wine, and used even at the celebration of the Lord’s 
Supper water instead of wine, on which account they 
were called vIpoTrapaoTarai, aquarii. They were, 
in general, representatives of the Gnostic asceticism 
based upon the principle of Dualism, in opposition to 
the asceticism of the Ehionites, Montanists, and oth- 
ers which kept within the limits of the Church. The 
Church lathers who regarded the Encratites as cue 
sect of Gnostics, called Tatian (q. v.) its founder; but 
it is certain that there were Encratites before Tatian, 
and that subsequently there were Encratites v ho in 
some points differed from Tatian. Prominent men 
among the Encratites were, besides Tatian, Saturni- 
nns, Marcion, Julianas, Cassianus, and Severn?, who is 
called the founder of a particular sect, the Severians, 
and made himself known as a violent opponent of the 
apostle Paul and of the Pauline epistles. In the 12th 
century the name of the Encratites was used, together 
with the names of several other ancient heresies, to 
designate and condemn the Bogomiles. See Eusebius, 
Hist. Eccl. iv, 29 ; Moslieim, Ch. Ilist. (N. Y. 3 vols.) i, 
149, 282 ; Moslieim, Comment, i, 482 ; Hase, Ch . Ilist. 
p. 64, 83; Lea, Sacerdotal Celibacy , p. 42; Lardner, 

W r orks (10 vols. 8vo), ii, 118 sq. ; Sehaff. Ch. Hist, i, 
245; Ilerzog, ReaUEncykl. iv, 67; Wetzcr u. Welte, 
Kirch.-Lex. iii, 575. See Tatian. 

Encyclica, Encyclical Letters (from the Gr. 
iyKvV\ioQ, letters which have to go the rounds of a 
certain number of men — lit free encyclicce , liters circu- 
lares ), in the ancient Church, letters sent by bishops to 


ENCYCLOPEDIA 189 ENCYCLOPEDIA 


all the churches of a particular circuit. At present 
the name is exclusively used for letters addressed by 
the Pope to all the bishops of the Roman Catholic 
world. In the encyclicals the Pope lays down his 
views of the general wants of the Church, or of some 
prevailing demands and sentiments ; he warns against 
dangerous movements within the Church, as well as 
against dangers threatening the Church from abroad. 
He urges the bishops to be watchful, and points to the 
proper antidotes for existing evils. Among modern 
encyclicals, none attracted greater attention than that 
issued by Pope Pius IX, in Dec., 18G4, against modern 
civilization. — Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , vi, 
540. See Liter.e Encyclics. (A. J. S.) 

Encyclopedia of Theology, a branch of theo- 
logical science of comparatively recent origin. Its 
aims are to furnish (1) a sketch of the different branch- 
es of theology in their organic connection and relations 
with each other; showing the fitness of the various 
branches to theological science as a whole, and the 
relative importance of these branches; and (2) a plan 
of theological study, showing the order in which the 
topics should be taken up, and indicating the best 
methods of study and necessary books and helps of 
all kinds. This second branch, including the practical 
application of encyclopedia, is generally called Meth- 
odology, and the whole science taken together is called 
by the double name Encyclopedia and Method oloyy. 
Of these, Encyclopedia is the objective side, the out- 
line of the science itself ; Methodology is the subjective 
side, having reference to the work of the student of the 
science. 

I. History of the Science.— In form, this branch 
of science is modern. When theology as a sci- 
ence was in its infancy, theological encyclopedia as 
science was impossible. But at an early period 
helps for students were prepared. Such were the 
treatise by Chrysostom, De Sacerdotio, the l)e ojjiciis 
ministrorum of Ambrosius, De doctrinci Christiana of Au- 
gustine, and a work of the same kind as the latter, De 
disciplina scholar ium, attributed to Boethius (f 525), but 
probably written after his time. Cassiodorus (f 562) 
wrote De Institutione Divinarum Literarum , an introduc- 
tion to the profitable study of Scripture, for the use of 
monks. In the 7th century Isidor of Seville wrote a 
larger work, a kind of general encyclopedia, wherein 
he also treats of theology, Onginuni sive Eiymologiarum 
libr. xx, but it is more in the shape of pastoral theolo- 
gy, as is the De institutione clericorum of Rabanus Mau- 
rus in the 9th century. The latter contains, however 
(vol. iii), a sketch of the different branches of informa- 
tion necessary to a minister. The Didascalion (eruditio 
didascalica') of Hugo of St. Victor (f 1141) comes nearer 
to the character of a theological encyclopedia — its 1st, 
2d, and 3d books treating on the preparatory studies, 
and the others, 4th to 6th, on the exposition of Scrip- 
ture and the study of the fathers (Liebner, Hugo v. St. 
Victor , p. 96). In the 13th century, Vincent of Beau- 
vais (f 1264), in his Speculum doctrinale , gave a scien- 
tific exposition of several subjects, including theology. 
After these we find the writings of Nicolas of Cle- 
manges (I)e studio theologico, d’Achery, i, 473), and Jean 
Charlier Gerson (De reformatime theologian, and Episto- 
he date ad studentes Collegii Xavarran Parisiensis , quid et 
qualiter studere debeat novus theologian auditor). 

But the real origin of theological encyclopedia is to 
be found in the time when the Reformation, in the 
16th century, breaking through the bonds of scholas- 
tic divinity, brought in a new era for science, particu- 
larly for theology. Erasmus first led the way in the 
new direction by his Ratio s. methodus compendio per - 
reniendi ad verarn theologiam (1519-1522), giving to 
theological studies a solid philosophical foundation, 
promoting the study of the Scriptures, and requiring 
from the theologian a knowledge of natural sciences. 
In the Lutheran Church we first find Melancthon giv- 
ing a short guide to theological studies in his Brevis 


ratio discendce Theohgice (Opp., Bas. 1541, iii, 287). 
This was followed by a work of his pupil, Theobald 
Thamer, Adhortatio ad theologian studium in acade’mia 
Marburgensi, 1543. After these we find the Oratio de 
studio theol. recte inchoando, 1577, and Regula studio- 
rum seu de ratione discendi in prancipuis artibus rede 
instituenda (Lips. 1565), both by David Chytriius ; the 
Consilium de theologian studio recte constituendo (Nuremb. 
1565), by Hieronymus Weller, the pupil and friend of 
Luther; the systematic Methodus studii theologici pub- 
licis pnelectionibus in academia Jenensi a. 1617 exposita 
(1620, 1622, 1654), by John Gerhard ; as also the works 
of Jacob Andrem, De Stud. Sacr. Litt. (Lips. 1567) ; 
Nicholas Selnecker (Notatio de Stud. Theologian (Lips. 
1579) ; and Abr. Calov (Isagoge ad Theologiam). First 
in the list of encyclopedic works of the R< formed 
Church stands Bullinger’s Ratio studii theologici , and 
the latter part of Conrad Gessner’s Pandectarum uni - 
versalium liber nltimus. But more important than ei- 
ther of those is the work of Andreas Gerhard of Ypern 
(Hyperius), professor at Marburg (f 1564), Theologus , 
seu de ratione studii theologid (Basel, 1572, 1582), in 
which we find a first attempt to arrange the matter 
of the Encyclopedia, dividing it into different depart- 
ments, exegetical, dogmatical, historical, and practical, 
though the exact limits of each were not yet well de- 
fined. The writers on dogmatics often prefixed an -en- 
cyclopedic essay to their works, as did J. H. Alsted 
in his Methodus sacrosanctan Theologian (Hanov. 1623), 
which contains two prefatory books on the study of 
theology. From the school of Saumur came Steph. 
Gaussin’s Dissertationes de studii theologici ratione, etc. 
(1678, 6th ed., by Rambach, Hal. 1726). Calixtus (f 
1656) wrote a copious Apparatus Theolo (ficus (Helmst., 
edited by his son, 1661); and Spener (f 1705) gave 
acute advice and discriminations in several of his writ- 
ings. 

The term encyclopedia, in its present meaning, we 
find for the first time in the title of a work by the Re- 
formed theologian S.Mursinna, Primee linece Encyclo- 
p.edle theologic.e (Hal. Magd. 1764; 2d ed. 1794). 
But this, like all the works heretofore mentioned, has 
now only a historical interest. Herder’s Bnfe ii. d. 
Studium d. Theologie (1785, 4 vols.) is, on the other 
hand, even now of value in this field. A new era in the 
history of theological encyclopedia was inaugurated by 
Schleiermacher in liis Darstettvng d. theologischen Stu- 
diums z. Behufe einleitender Yorlesungen (Berlin, 1811) ; 
but the full effect of the book was not felt until its 2d 
edition appeared in 1830, although Bertholdt (Theol. 
Wissenschaftskunde, Erlangen, 1821, 2 vols.), Francke 
(Theol. Encyclopcedie. 1819), and Danz (Eneyclopandie 
und Methoelologie, Wein. 1832) had been stimulated and 
guided by Schleiermacher’s remarkable sketch. The 
powerful grasp of the whole science, and the lumi- 
nous statement of the relations of all the parts, given 
by Schleiermacher, give liis Darstellung the foremost 
place in this branch of science. (There is an English 
translation by Farrar, not very well done, under the 
title Brief Outline of the Study of Theology, Edinb. 
1850, 12mo). Its practical fault lies in the divisions 
made of the whole science (see below). It was fol- 
lowed by Hagenbach’s Encyclopcedie u. Methodologie 
d. Theol . I Vissenschaften (Leips. 1833, 8vo), a work of 
great practical value, which has maintained its posi- 
tion as the most useful manual on the subject (7th 
edition, Leips. 1864, 8vo). The Encyclopddie d. theol . 

1 Vissenschaften of K. Rosenkranz (Halle, 1845) is thor- 
oughly speculative and Hegelian. Harless’s Ency- 
clopadie u. Methodologie (Niirnb. 1837) is a Lutheran 
work, and is really valuable for its historical sketch of 
the development of theology and for its copious liter- 
ature. The Anleitung z. Studium d. christl. Theologie 
of Lobegott Lange (Jena, 1841) advocates Biblical ra- 
tionalism. Pelt’s Thenloyische Encyclopddie (Hamb. 
1843, 8vo) follows Sehleiermacher's method closely, 
but is a thorough and scholarly work, careful in state- 


EXCYCLOPEDIA 


190 


ENCYCLOPEDIA 


ment, broad in range, and accurate in literature. Hol- 
land has produced a valuable compendium in Clarisse, 
Encyclopcediie Theological Epitome (2d edit. Lugd. Bat. 
1835, 8 vo), which lias a copious literature, especially 
full in reference to English books, a matter in which 
the Gorman writers on the subject are all signally de- 
iicient. 

Among Roman Catholic books in this field are to 
be mentioned Possevinus, Bibliotheca sclecta de ratione 
stmliorum (Colon. 1G07) ; Ellies du Pin, Methode pour 
et tidier la theflogie (1710), translated into several lan- 
guages. In the 18th century, Denina (1758), Gerbert 
(1704), Braun (1777), Brandmcier (1783), and special- 
ly Oberthiir, labored in this field. The influence of 
the later Protestant writers is manifest in such works 
as Drey, Kurze Einl . in das Stud. d. Theolugie (Tubing. 
1810 ); Klee, Encyklopcedie (Mainz, 1832); Staudcn- 
maier, Encyclopddie dcr theol. Wissensehaftcn als System 
d. gesammten Theohg'.e (Mentz, 1834 1840) ; Gengler, 
B. Ideal e d. Wissenschaft.o. d. Encyclopiidie d. Theologie 
(Band). 1834); Buchner, Enr. u. Method. (Sulzh. 1837); 
A. von Sieger, De natura jidei et methodo theologian ad 
ecclcsicp. catholicee Theologos (Monast. 1839). 

No book properly to be called Encyclopedia of The- 
ology has appeared in English, and no book is more 
needed, as the English theological literature is almost 
wholly neglected by the Germans. (We arc glad to 
see, as this article goes to press, 1808, an Encyclopedia 
.and Methodology announced as in preparation by Dr. 

H. B. Smith.) But there are many excellent remarks 
in English books of pastoral theology on the best meth- 
ods of study, and some special treatises which deserve 
notice. Among them are Dodwell, Advice on Theo- 
logical Studies (Loud. 1091) ; Bonnet, Directions for 
Studying (Loud. 1727, 3d edit. Svo) ; Cotton Mather, 
Manuduetio in Ministerium (Boston, 1720, 12mo ; re- 
published, with additions, as Slather’s Student and 
Preacher , by Hyland (Bond. 1781); Mason, Student 
and Pastor (Lond. 1755) ; Marsh, Course of Lectures on 
Divinity (Cambridge, 1809, 8vo), which gives gcod 
practical hints, and also attempts an encyclopaedic 
outline; Doddridge, Lectures (Works, Lond. 1830, 215 
sq.); Bickersteth, Christian Student (Lond. 4th edit. 
18441, contains much information and good advice, 
but is destitute of scientific form or spirit. There are 
many compends, such as Preston's Theological Man- 
ual (18501, Smith’s Compendium (1830), etc., which are 
superficial sketches of theology, designed to aid stu- 
dents in cramming rather than in thorough work. 
Many good hints are given in books of pastoral the- 
ology, for which see Practical Theology. There 
is a good list of books in Lowndes’s British Librarian , 
p. 813 sq. 

11. Method of Theological Encyclopedia and Method - 
ology. — 1. Some writers bold that encyclopaedia should 
be treated entirely apart from methodology : so Kien- 
len, Encyclopedic (Strasb. 1842), confines the former to 
the exposition of the relation of the several branch- 
es of theology to the science as a whole ; making 
methodology a separate work, aiming, not to set forth 
the science at all, but to show how it should be studied. 
This view is correct, if encyclopedia he taken in its 
broadest sense, as not merely an introductory science, 
taking the beginner bv the hand at the portals of the- 
ology, and showing him the way to enter, and the plan 
of the edifice, hut also as forming the conclusion of the 
course of study, in which all the branches are exhibit- 
ed in their natural relations to the central trunk. But 
in. view of practical use, most of t lie recent writers 
blend methodology with encyclopedia in one connect- 
ed whole. 

2. Wo give here the methods of the chief writers on 
the subject. (1.) Schleiormaoher (§ 31) divides theol- 
ogy as science into three branches, Philosophical, His- 
torical, and Practical. Philosophical theology includes, 

I. Apologetics; 2. Polemics. Historical theology in- 
cludes, 1. Exegetics, or the knowledge of primitive 


Christianity; 2. Church history, or the knowledge of 
the earthly career of Christianity; 3. the knowledge of 
the present condition of Christianity (a) as to doctrine 
(Dogmatic theology), (5) as to social condition and 
extension (Ecclesiastical statistics). Practical theol- 
ogy includes, 1. Church service (Liturgy. Worship, 
Homiletics, Pastoral care) ; 2. Church government. 
(2.) Hagenbach adopts the old and useful division of 
theology into four parts, Exegetieal, Historical, Sys- 
tematic, and Practical. Exegetieal theology includes 
a knowledge of the sacred books, as the primary source 
of Christian doctrine, and the record of the original 
facts of Christianity. This knowledge presumes a 
knowledge of the languages of the sacred books, and 
requires also an apparatus (1) of criticism ; (2) of his- 
tory, viz. arclueology, geography, etc. ; (3) of interpre- 
tation (Hermeneutics). Historical theology includes 
Bible-history of Old and New Test., Biblical theology, 
Church history, Doctrine history, Patristics, Symbol- 
ics, Archaeology, Statistics. Systematic theology in- 
cludes Dogmatics, Apologetics, Polemics, and Ethics. 
Practical theology embraces Catechetics, Worship, 
Homiletics, Pastoral care, Church government. — Pelt 
gives a very complete outline (founded on Schleier- 
maehcr’s) in his Encyclopaedic (1843, 8vo), which lie 
modifies somewhat in his article Theologie, in Herzog’s 
Real-Encyklopdelie , xv, 748 (compare also his article in 
1 Studicn n. Kritiken, 1849, p. 27). — Godet ( Bulletin The - 
ologique, Paris, 1803, art. i) divides theology into, 1. 
Speculative, or the knowledge of salvation ; 2. Prac- 
tical, or the art of saving men. Under the first he 
classes Exegetieal, Systematic, and Historical theolo- 
gy; under the second, Ecclesiastical economy, Mis- 
sions, Apologetics' (compare a criticism on this outline 
I by Pronier. in the same journal. May, 1803, p. 7G sq.). 
Thomas (Bullet. Theol. Sept. 1805) proposes to arrange 
as follows : 1. Apologetics (historical and philosophic- 
al) ; 2. Historical theology (Biblical sciences, Church 
history, Statistics) ; 3. Systematic theology (Dogmat- 
' ies, Polemics, Speculative theology) ; 4. Practical the- 
ology (the individual, the family, the nation, civiliza- 
tion, the Church, ( a ) as to its base, ( b ) as to its organ- 
ization, (c) as to its active working. — Dr. W. F. War- 
ren, of the Boston Theological Seminary, gives a philo- 
sophical but luminous outline in Jtdirbucher f. Deutsche 
\ Theologie, 1807, p. 318, as follows ; 1. The Church, in its 
origin in time (History of the sacred writings; Bibli- 
J cal doctrines: Mosaic, Jewish, and New Test. ; Bibli- 
cal Church history ; auxiliary sciences : philology, 

' archaeology, geography, chronology, etc.). 2. The 
Church in its development in time (Literature, His- 
tory of doctrines, System of Christian doctrines, Church 
history, Church economy, auxiliary sciences, with Po- 
lemics as a concluding discipline). 3. The Church in 
its consummation (the scientific exposition of what 
the Word of God tells us concerning the future devel- 
opment and final consummation of the Church). In a 
note to Dr. Warren’s article (p. 321), Dr. Wagemnann 
gives another outline, to which we refer the reader. 

Literature. — Besides the authors already cited, see 
, Tholuck’s Lectures on Encyclopedia, translated in the 
Bibliotheca Sacra, vol. i ; biblical Repository, edited by 
| Dr. Robinson, i, 013; iv, 127 ; Zyro, in Studicn v. Krit- 
iken, 1837, p. 089 sq. ; Shedd, Essays , Essay i, on Meth- 
} od and Influence of Theological Studies; Vincent, Du 
Protesta7iti*me> en France, i,314 sq. (Paris, 1800, 12mo); 
Credncr, Preface to Kitto's Cyclopaedia. 

Encyclopedia, French, and the Encyclope- 
dists. The D'dionnaire Encyclopedique was' a publi- 
cation of the 18th century, which exerted a great influ- 
ence not merely on general science and literature, hut 
- also on theology and religion. Its full title is Ency- 
! clopedie on Die tionnaire raisonne des Sciences, des A rts, 

] et des Metiers, par ime societe dc gens de Lettres ; mis en 
ordre et public par l)i derot ; et quant a la partir Maihe- 
matique par D’Alemdert (Par. and Amst. 1751- 80. 35 
vols. fob). This great work was projected by Diderot 


ENCYCLOPEDIA 


191 


ENCYCLOPEDIA 


(q.v.), and carried through, in the midst of difficulties, I 
chiefly by his indomitable industry and perseverance. 
The name ot‘ D’Alembert (q. v.) added lustre to the pub- I 
lication ; and these two called to their aid all the scepti- 
cal and free-thinking talent of France. A great aim of 
the Encyclopedists was to establish what they called 
philosophy instead of religion ; and the higher intellect 
of France seemed to become thoroughly imbued with 
their views, social, moral, and political. The Encyclo- 
paedia was a product of the same causes which gener- 
ated the Devolution, but the publication itself doubt- 
less great ly hastened the catastrophe. It was only 
one stage in the development of that one-sided realism 
which commenced with Locke ; expanded into the de- 
ism of England ; and, crossing over to France, found 
a powerful advocate in Condillac. The progress of 
this development was very rapid. Among the Ency- 
clopedists a single lifetime produced startling changes. 
Diderot, the editor and leading philosophical spirit of 
the Encyclopedia, “was at first only a doubter, next 
lie became a deist, lastly an atheist. In the first 
stage he only translated English works, and even 
condemned some of the English deists. His views 
seem gradually to have altered, probably under the 
influence of Voltaire's writings and of the infidel 
books smuggled into France, and he thenceforth as- 
sumed a tone bolder and marked by positive disbelief. 
Diderot's atheism is a still farther development of his 
unbelief. It is expressed in few of his writings, and 
presents no subject of interest to 11 s, save that it seeks ! 
to invalidate the arguments for the being of God 
drawn from final causes” (Farrar, Critical History of 
Free Though f , p. 179). D’Alembert, the scientific edi- 
tor of the Encyclopedia, was the ^author of the cele- 
brated Discours Preliminaire dcs Editeurs, which was 
issued in separate form, and became a text-book of 
infidelit}^ not only in France, but also in England. 
D’Alembert’s reputation in the department of science 
was very great over the entire continent of Europe, 
and he gave to the Encyclopedia its high scientific 
character and value. (See Alemkert, d’.) There 
has been much discussion as to whether the Encyclo- 
pedia proper really was issued in the interests of athe- 
ism. Many of the articles are entirely Christian in 
their tone and spirit. Others are as decidedly atheis- 
tic, while the Discours Preliminaire can hardly be call- 
ed doubtful as to its character and aims. The true 
view seems to be that the Encyclopedists endeavored 
clandestinely to accomplish what more honest infidels 
had long attempted openly. They endeavored to un- 
dermine both religion and the state, while seeming to 
be in favor of them. Voltaire doubtless stands at the 
head of the coterie which furnished the articles for the 
Encyclopedia, although he wrote little for it himself. 
More than any other man he was the educator of the 
Encyclopedists. His principles are too well known to 
need statement. Helvetius derived his philosophy from 
Locke. “ He was the moralist of the sensational phi- 
losophy, one who applied the philosophy of Condillac 
to morals. His philosophy is expressed in two works: 
the one on the spirit, the other on man ; the former a 
theoretical view of human nature, the latter a prac- 
tical view of education and society. II is primary po- 
sition is, that man owes all his superiority over ani- 
mals to the superior organization of his body. Pleas- 
ure is the only good, and self-interest the true ground 
of morals, and the frame-work of individual and politi- 
cal right” (Farrar, History of Free Thought , p. 180). 
Next come the authors of the Systhme de la Nature, a 
work issued by the encyclopedists. It has been at- 
tributed to baron d’Holbach, his tutor Lagrange, Di- 
derot, Grimm, Helvetius, and Eobinct. It was doubt- 
less a joint work, and expressed the views of all these 
men, or was a compromise creed to which they could 
all subscribe, for they held widely different opinions in 
other respects. The great object of the System of Na- 
ture was to banish God from the universe. It is de- 


voted to the boldest materialism. “There is, in fact, 
nothing but matter and motion, says this book. Doth 
are inseparably connected. If matter is at rest, fit is 
only because hindered in motion, for in its essence it is 
not a dead mass” (Schwcgler, History of Philosophy). 
The first part of this work undertakes to disprove 
the existence of mind ; the second part is directed 
against religion. This System of Nature was the bold- 
est achievement of infidelity, a work which even Vol- 
taire pronounced “illogical in its deductions, absurd 
in its physics, and abominable in its morality.” To 
those already named we may add Rousseau, whose Po- 
litical Essays became the text-book of the French Rev- 
olution. lie did for the state what the others had done 
for the Church. Such, then, were the views of those 
who projected and carried forward the Encyclopedia . 
If in the j Encyclopedia itself we find those views cover- 
ed up, or at least offset by thoroughly Christian ones, 
we are justified in believing that they were concealed 
and balanced by contrary opinions only to make the 
Encyclopedia acceptable to the unthinking masses of 
the French nation. The fact, as some hold, that the 
French nation was ripening for a revolution both in 
Church and State, and would have rushed into such a 
catastrophe at all hazards, proves nothing respecting 
the motives of the encyclopedists; and the terrible 
quickening which their great popular work gave to in- 
fidelity is perhaps the best test by which to judge the 
purposes of its authors. 

Let us now look at the Encyclopedia itself, and its 
spirit can perhaps be best read from the Discours 
Preliminaire. D’Alembert was its author, although 
he probably secured both the approval and assistance 
of Diderot in its form and contents. The object of 
this Discours is to set forth the philosophy underly- 
ing the Encyclopedia, and this is nothing more than 
the sensationalism of Locke. D’Alembert declares 
that “all our abstract knowledge may be reduced 
to what we receive through our senses,” Showing 
that this may be the case, he thence argues that it is 
so. Sensations are the only things about which lie 
cannot raise a doubt. With regard to ethics, the fol- 
lowing is his underlying principle. Our ideas of good 
and evil “ arise from the oppression which, by nature, 
the stronger practices upon the weaker, and the latter 
bears the more reluctantly the more violent it is, be- 
cause he feels that there is no reason why he should 
! submit to it; the evils which befall us through the 
vices of onr fellow-men lead to the indirect knowledge 
of antagonistic virtues.” These are the grounds upon 
which his philosophy is based. And } r et this Discours 
made infidelity more popular to the unthinking masses 
than the writings of Locke, Condillac, Helvetius, De la 
Mettrie, or Holbach had done. 

Such is the sensualistic materialism contained in 
the Discours PreVm’naire, containing the ethical prin- 
ciple that we feel a sense of oppression only because 
we can see no reason why we should submit to it. And 
yet, by the side of this, in the same Discours, we find 
the following statement: “Nothing, therefore, is more 
necessary than a revealed religion, which instructs us 
concerning so many things. Designed for the com- 
pletion of our natural knowledge, it shows us a por- 
tion of what was concealed from ns; but confines it- 
self to that which is most needful, while all the rese 
remains forever hidden. A few points of faith, and a 
small number of practical precepts, is all to which the 
revealed religion refers ; 3 'et, thanks to the light which 
it communicates to tho world, since then the people 
are more firm and decided concerning a great number 
of interesting questions than the philosophers of any 
school ever were.” In this way infidelity and relig- 
ion were woven into the same system, religion being 
always held subordinate, a something to accomplish 
an end which science and philosophy could not quite 
reach. This being once admitted, it was not difficult 
to persuade the French people that, when philosophy 


EX-EGLAIM 


EXCYCLOPEDIA 192 


could accomplish all that is necessary, religion might 
be set aside. 

In the body of the Encyclopedia itself, many of the 
articles upon religious subjects are apparently in full 
sympathy with catholicity, and even orthodoxy. For 
instance, the article “Trinite” defends the orthodox 
dogma from attacks of Socinians, Jews, and infidels 
of all kinds. In the article “Dieu” the arguments 
for the existence of God are ably summed up, and ob- 
jections are refuted. Quotations are made from Chris- 
tian authorities, and the writer of the article seems to- 
have been in full sympathy with the Christian view 
of the subject. The existence of angels and devils is 
recognised. The article “Christianismc” pronounces 
Christianity the only true revealed religion, and the 
Old and New Testaments are recognised as divine. 
It declares that the severest criticism has not been 
able to invalidate their authenticity. Reason and phi- 
losophy must accord to them the honor of setting forth 
facts beyond their reach. The hand of God is seen in 
the style of the sacred writings. Articles on Protes- 
tantism condemn severely every innovation in doc- 
trine, every departure from the established creeds of 
the various denominations. The errors of the Romish 
Church are pointed out and severely castigated. It 
is not necessary to suppose these articles written in a 
spirit of hypocrisy. Their authors doubtless held the 
views expressed. The fact that they did does not in- 
validate the opinion that the Encyclopedia was secret- 
ly issued in the interests of atheism. Its authors 
could well afford to give Christian men a voice within 
its pages, when there was so much to counteract all 
they might sa} r . It was not that Christianity had no 
advocates in the Encyclopedia , but that it was allowed 
only a feeble defence, and was often defended on prin- 
ciples which directly tended to its overthrow. Its 
very defenders, in many cases, were its worst enemies, 
and only erected fortifications on the side of religion 
to show how easily they could be carried by infidelity. 
The defence is made chiefly to rest on eudtemonism. 
Christianity should be upheld because it brings us 
more good than any other system of religion. What- 
ever system is most advantageous for man in his 
worldly relations is the system to which he should ad- 
here. Whenever men can be made to believe that 
Christianity fails to do this, then it must be set aside. 
For example, in the article “ Christianisme,” Christ is 
placed side by side with the other lawgivers, bis only 
superiority being that, while they kept the useful in 
view, he aimed at the true as well as the useful. 
“ Though he set forth, as its first object, the happiness 
of another life, he also meant it to make us happy in 
this world.” In other places morality is preferred to 
faith, “because he who does good and makes himself 
useful to the world is in a better condition through 
morality without faith than through faith without mo- 
rality.” Theism is better than atheism, because it is 
more advantageous for nations to admit the existence 
of God than to reject it. 

The work began to appear in 1751, and was con- 
cluded in 1765, in 17 vols. fob, besides 11 vols. of plates. 
A supplement, in 5 vols., appeared at Amsterdam, 
177G-1777, and a Table analytiqne ct raisonnee cles 
matieres , in 2 vols., at Paris, in 1780. The publica- 
tion was stopped two or three times by the govern- 
ment, and the last volumes were distributed private- 
ly, though the king himself was one of the purchasers. 
Diderot himself said of the Encyclopedia that he had 
had “neither time nor means of being particular in 
the choice of his contributors, among whom some 
were excellent, but most of the rest were very in- 
ferior ; moreover the contributors, being badly paid, 
Avorked carelessly ; in short, it was a patch-work com- 
posed of very ill-sorted materials, some masterpieces 
bv the side of school-boys’ performances ; and there 
was also considerable lioglcef in the arrangement of 
the articles^ and especially in the references.” In 


spite of all its defects, the Encyclopedia was the pride 
of France, and is in many respects a very able produc- 
tion. See La Porte, Esprit de V Encyclopedic (Paris, 
1768) ; Voltaire, Questions sur V Encyclopedic (Paris, 
1770); \ an i\l ildert , Boyle Lecture , i, 878; Kurtz, 
Church History, ii, 236; Farrar, 1 list, of Free Thought, 
p. 166-178; Tennemann, Manual Hist. Philosophy, p. 
378 ; Sch wegler, Hist. Philosophy , translated by Seely e, 
p. 206 ; Chambers, Encyclopedia ; Herzog, Real-Ency - 
Hop. iv, 1 ; Morell, Hist. Phil. p. 111. (H.G.) 

Slid of the World. See Eschatology. 

En'-dor (lleb. Eyn-Dor' , “li'n yj, fountain of Dor , 
i. e. of the age, 1 Sam. xxviii, 7, Sept. ’Eviibn v. r. 
'A tvcdjp ; but defectively “'ll p* in Josh, xvii, 11, 
Sept. Atop v. r. ’Erewp; and in Psa. lxxxiii, 

10 [11], Sept. ’AevCiop ; Josephus "Ei'Jwpor, Ant. vi, 
14,2), a place which, with its “daughter-towns” (r^S), 
was in the territory of Issachar, and yet possessed by 
Manasseh (Josh, xvii, 11). This was the case with 
five other places which lay partly in Asher, partly in 
Issachar, and seem to have formed a kind of district 
of their own, called “ the three, or the triple Nephetk ” 
(q. v.). The Israelites were unable to expel the Ca- 
naanites from it until a late period. Endor was long 
held in memory by the Jewish people as connected 
with the great victory of Deborah and Barak over Sis- 
era and Jabin. Taanaeh, Megiddo, and the torrent 
Kislion all witnessed the discomfiture of the huge host, 
hut it was emphatically to Endor that the tradition of 
the death of the two chiefs attached itself (Psa. lxxxiii, 
9, 10). Possibly it was some recollection of this, some 
fame of sanctity or good omen in Endor, which drew 
the unhappy Saul thither (see Thomson, Land and 
Booh, ii, 161) on the eve of his last engagement with 
an enemy no less hateful and no less destructive than 
the Midianites (1 Sam. xxviii, 7). Endor is not again 
mentioned in the Scriptures ; hut it was known to Eu- 
sebius ami Jerome, who describe it (by the same name, 
'A tvciop and ’Eucibp, XEndor and Endor') as a large vil- 
lage in the plain of Jezreel or Esdraelon, 4 miles S. of 
Tabor (Onomast. s. v. ./Endor), near Nain and 

Scythopolis (ib. s. v. 'H.nCwp, Endor). It was recog- 
nised during the Crusades (Brocardus, c. vi, p. 176; 
Marin. Sanut. p. 248), hut was then partially lot^t sight 
of till the 17th century (Doubdau, p. 580 ; Nau, p. 632 ; 
Mnundrell, Apr. 19). Oil the bleak northern slope of 
Jehel Duliv (the “Little Ilermon” of travellers) the 
name still lingers, attached to a considerable hut now 
deserted village (Burckhardt, Trav. p. 342 ; Robinson, 
Res. iii, 218; Schwarz, Palest, p. 149). The rock of 
the mountain, on the slope of which Endur stands, is 
hollowed into caves, one of which, containing a little 
fountain, the entrance narrow, between rugged rocks, 
and partly covered with a fig-tree, may well have been 
the scene of the incantation of the witch (Van de Velde, 
Xarratice, ii, 383). The distance from the slopes of 
Gilboa to Endor is 7 or 8 miles, over difficult ground 
(Porter, nandb. ii, 358). 

E'neas. See yExeas. 

En-eg'lai’m [many En-cgla'im] (Heb. Eyn Egla' - 
yim, ‘pr, fountain of two calves, unless for 

y m J, fountain of two pools; Sept. ’EvayaXtift 
v. r. EnayaXAft/i), a place named only by Ezekiel 
(xlvii, 10), apparently as on the Dead Sea, hut wheth- 
er near to or far from Engedi, on the west or east side 
of the sea, it is impossible to ascertain frem the text: 
“ The fishers shall stand upon it from En-gedi even to 
En-eglnim : they shall he a place to spread forth nets.” 
In his comment on the passage, Jerome places it at 
the northern end of the Dead Sea, at the influx of the 
Jordan. M. de Sauloy thinks it identical with Ain - 
Ajluhy situated towards the northern point of the Dead 
Sea, between Jericho and the Jordan ( Xarrative , i. 


ENEMESSAR 


193 


EXFIELD 


IBS'). See Beth-hoglah. En-eglaim is probably an- 1 dressed the learned, the artists, and the industrials. 


other name for the Eglaim (q. v.) of Isa. xv, 8. 

Enemes'sar ( E vegiiraapoc and ’Eueptocrdp) is the 
name under which Shalmaneser (q. v.) appears in 


In 1830 he secured the support of the G79&e newspaper. 
Soon he was made by acclamation (the sacred vogd 
! was acclame ) one of the supreme fathers, with Hazard. 


the hook of Tobit (i, 2, 13, 15, 1C). The change of the , The two chiefs disagreed, however, on one important 
name is a corruption, the first syllable Shut being point: Bazard wished to pay pronnnent attention to 
dropped (compare the Bupaiussor of Abydenus, which ! political agitation, while Lnfantin occupied bnnse t 
represents iVabopolassar), ami tlie order of the liquids only with ethics art, religion, and social reform. Ils 
m and n being reversed. The author of Tobit makes desired first of all to regulate individual relations to 
Knemessar lead the children of Israel into captivity (i, I emancipate woman and the pauper, and to sanctify the 
2). following the apparent narrative of the hook of flesh by lalior and pleasure, lie expected to obtain 
Kings (2 Kings xvii, 3-6 ; xviii, 0-11). He regards control of society by dispossessing the Church, not the 
Sennacherib not only as bis successor, hut as his son state In Kovemhcr 18ol he issued a manife o to 
(i, 15), for which he has probably no authority beyond the forty thousand adherents of the new doct. me 
1.1. An .npcuhitlnns „non the text of Sciinturc.— i Trance, that Hazard aim Kodnguez had separate, 1 Horn 

him, and that the new dogma had become incarnate 
in him alone, as the living law and the messiah. But 
his attempt to establish communistic colonies failed, 
and the researches made for finding a female messiah, 
to share with him the leadership of the communion, 
made the whole movement ridiculous. The Globe, 
which was gratuitously distributed, had to be discon- 
tinued. In 1832 the government suppressed the asso- 


his own speculations upon the text of Scripture, 
Smith, s. v. Sec Tobit. 

Ene'nius (’E v)jvt)g v. r. ’EW/vioc, Vulg. Emma - 
nius), one of the leaders of the people who returned 
from captivity with Zorobabel (1 Esdr. v, 8) ; corre- 
sponding to the Nahamani (q. v.) of Nehemiah (vii, 

7 ). 

Energici, a sect in Germany in the 16th century, 


so called because they held that the Eucharist was the ciation> E n f ant in followed by about forty of his dis- 
of Jesus Christ — not his body, nor a represent- ' ’ 

ation thereof. — Buck, Theol. Dictionary , s. v. 

Energumens (ivtpyovpevoi'), persons possessed, 
and, in the narrower and more usual sense, persons 
possessed by an evil spirit. In the early Church such 
persons constituted a distinct class, bearing some rela- 
tion to the catechumens and the faithful, but differin 


ciples, among whom were Michael Chevalier (subse- 
quently a member of the senate), Duveyrier, and Gus- 
tave d’Eichthal, retired to an estate which he possessed 
on the coast of Mcnilmontant, and there organized a 
model community. There the new brethren, divided 
into groups of laborers, wore a peculiar garb, and pass- 
ed the day in work, religious conferences, and sym- 


from them in this, that they were under the special v> 0 ii C al ceremonies. The “father” (Enfantin) had this 
care of exorcists, while they took part in some of the nanlc conspicuously inscribed upon his breast, super- 
religious exercises of both classes. Catechumens wdio intended, preached, encouraged; he wrote articles for 
became disordered in mind during their term of pro- j es p eu m es Populaires, and the Lirre Nouveau ; eom- 
bation were not baptized until thoroughly recovered, I p 0Se q mystical hymns, and developed some mystical 
except in cases of sickness. Should any among the i p ant heism. It cost him great efforts to refute the 
baptized become thus afflicted, they were excluded stacks of Carnot, J. Beynaut, and others. lie was 
from the Christian assembly during the wmrst stages t i ieu summoned before the assizes of the Seine, being 
of their disease, being compelled to remain in the area charged with having held forbidden meetings, and 
of the church. From this circumstance they w r ere ol ,traged public morality, and was condemned to a 


called \'«jUa£o/{£i'oi, exposed to the weather. ’When par- 
tially recovered they were permitted to join in public 
worship, but w’ere not permitted to partake of the 
Lord’s Supper till they were properly restored, except 
in the immediate prospect of death. — Bingham, Orig. 
Eccl. bk. iii, eh. iv, § 6, 8. 

Enfantin, Bartuelemy Prosper, more conimon- 


r ear of imprisonment (August 28, 1832). The Saint 
Simonians now dispersed. Enfantin, who after a few* 
months was set at liberty, left with about a dozen of 
his disciples for Egypt. Most of them, turning Mo- 
hammedans, received appointments from the pasha of 
Egypt; but Enfantin refused to profess Mohammedan- 
ism, and after remaining in Egypt for two years, re- 


ly called father Enfantin, one of the founders of Saint turned to France. He was for a time postmaster, and 
Simonism (q. v.), w r as born at Paris Feb. 8, 1796. He in 1841, through the influence of his friends, some of 
received his education at a lyceum, and subsequently ' whom had obtained high offices, w r as appointed liiem- 
(1813) at the Polytechnic School. After the fall of her of a scientific commission sent to Algeria. In 1845 
Napoleon he engaged in commercial and industrial he received the chief direction of the Lyons railroad, 
pursuits. Towards the close of the year 1825 Enfan- j In November, 1848, Enfantin, conjointly with Duvey- 
tin became intimately acquainted w ith Olinde Rodri- i rier, established a daily paper, Le Credit, which w r as 
guez, and through him with Saint Simon, who con- continued until 1850. Subsequently Enfantin became 
verted him to his theories of an industrial and rclig- connected with the administration of the railroad from 
ions reformation. He accepted from his dying master Lyons to the Mediterranean. He died May 31, 1864. 
the mission to spread and develop his doctrines. The Shortly before his death he appointed Arles Dufour 
work w r as begun w ith the establishment of a journal j head of the sect. Enfantin developed the socialistic 
called Le Producteur (1825-26, 5 vols.), w hich closed views of his master and his own in the w'orlcs Economic 
its career with the celebrated epitaph, The golden ( politique et St. Simonienne (Par. 1831) and Morale (Par. 
age, which a blind tradition has formerly placed in the 1832). The latter work w\as at once condemned by the 
past, is still before us. The Liberal party at first saw i Courd' assises. Another work of the same class, LeLivre 
in this periodical the application of its own ideas to the nouveau (completed in 1832), has never been printed, 
material order, and supported it ; but the support w'as His philosophical and theological view's w'ere set forth 
withdrawn when Benjamin Constant denounced it as at length in the Correspondance philosophique et . reli- 
theocratic. In 1828 Enfantin had about a dozen cola- gieuse (Par. 1847), of which the Correspondance politique. 
borers, among w'hom were Blanqui, Duveyrier, Buchez i (Paris, 1849) is a supplement, and in a pamphlet against 

/• 1 O IO ^ /'*'l ~ ^ 4 ! 4- . . i. \ 1 l.A .1 it I f.akAM v f mi I^onir 


(in 1848 president of the Constituent Assembly), and 
Percire. The revolution of 1830 filled Enfantin with 
enthusiastic hopes, lie signed, on the 30th of July, a 
proclamation, in w'hich he demanded community of 
goods, abolition of inheritage, and the emancipation of 
woman. He organized “ centres of action” at Tou- 
louse, Montpellier, Lyons, Metz, and Dijon ; provided 
for regular preaching at Paris, and frequently ad-i 
III— N 


the Jesuit orator, father Felix ( Riponse an P'ere Felix , 
Paris, 1856). Ilis last work w r as La Vie Eternelle pas- 
see, prisente, future (Paris, 1861 : also republished in 
the Bibliothyue utile, Paris, 1864). In 1865 a collec- 
tive edition of his socialistic works was published. — 
Vaperean, Dictionnnire des Co?itemporahis , s. v. ; Hoe- 
fer, Xonv. Biogr. Ginir. xvi, 37. (A. J. S.) 

Enfield, William, LL.D., an English Dissenter 


EX GADDI 


194 


EN-GEDI 


and voluminous writer, was born at Sudbury March j 
‘29, 1741, and was educated at Daventry under 'Dr. 
Ashworth. On leaving the seminary he became pas- i 
tor to a congregation at Liverpool. He afterwards be- j 
came resident tutor and lecturer on belles-lettres at j 
"Warrington Academy. In 1785 he became minister 
of the Unitarian Church at Norwich, where he died 
Nov. 3, 1797. Among his numerous publications were 
(1) A History of Philosophy, drawn up from Brueker 
(Lond. 1819, 2 vols. 8vo) (2) The Preachers'' Direc- 
tory (London, 1771, 4to) (3) Birmons for Families 

(Lond. 1778, 2 vols. 12mo):— (4) The Enylish Preacher 
(Lond. 9 vols. 12mo). He was a frequent contributor 
to periodicals, and shared with Dr. Aikin in the prep- 
aration of the General Biographical Dictionary . 

Ellgad'di ( iv aiyia\oig v. r. ’Evyacct and h> 
r eti ii. or iv Poooir, Vulg. in Cades'), Ecclus. xxiv, 14. 
See Engedi. 

En-gan'nim (Heb. Eyn Gannim', “p?, foun- 
tain of gardens ), the name of several places in Pales- 
tine, for, besides those mentioned below, there was 
said, according to Eusebius and Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. 
'H yawl, Engannim), then to be a third village called 
Engannim (‘HyaiW, Eganna) near Gerasa, beyond 
the Jordan. 

1. (Sept, ’llvyovtiy v. r. unrecognisable: Vulg. 
v- Engannim .) A town in t he plains of Judah, men- 
tioned between Zanoah and Tappuah (Josh, xv, 34). 
Eusebius and Jerome state ( Onomast . s. v. 'Hyaviy, 
Engannim) that it was still extant in their day near 
Bethel ; but there must have been some mistake in 
this, as the place in question lay in the group N.W. 
of Jerusalem (Keil, Comment, on Josh, in loc.), pos- 
sibly at the site of the present agricultural village 
Dana, north of Eleutheropolis (Bobinson, Pesearches , 
ii, 354). Schwarz, however, thinks (Palest, p. 192) 
that •‘En-gannim is certainly identical with the vil- 
lage Jenin , 3 Eng. miles S.E. of Ashkelon but this 
is not in the quarter indicated by the associated names, 
and is, moreover, with greater probability appropria- 
ted to another ancient locality. See Zexax. 

2. A city on the border of Issachar (Josh, xix, 21 ; 
Sept, ’itiov icai T ogyeiv, Alex. t)v Vavidfi ; Vulg. En- 1 
Gannim ); allotted with its “suburbs” to the Gershon- ' 
ite Levites (xxi, 29; Sept. lh)y>) y pay gar ton ; Vulg. 
En-Gamnm); probably the same (see Poland, Palevsi. 
p. 812) as the Ginwa (Virata) or Genian (Vi)fidv) of 
Josephus, on the borders of the great plain toward Sa- 
maria (Ant. xx, (I, 1; War, iii. 3. 4: comp, ii, 12, 3), 
which Biddulph (in Purchas, ii, 135) identifies with the 
present Jenin, a town 15 miles south of Mount Tabor, 
and which he and others describe as still a place of 
gardens and abundant water ("Wilson, Lands of Bible, 
ii, 84; Van de Velde, Narrative, ii, 359; Schwarz, 
Palest. ]). 167). In the lists of Levitieal cities in 1 
Citron, vi, Anem is substituted for Engannim, appar- 
ently by contraction. The position of Jenin is in 
striking agreement with the requirements of Betii- 
jiag-Gax (A.V. “the garden-house Sept. Bm6ty«V) 
in the direction of which Ahaziah fled from Jehu (2 
Kings ix, 27). The rough road of the ascent was 
probably too much for his chariot, and, keeping the 
more level ground, he made for Megiddo, where he 
died (Stanley, Palest, p. 342). The place is several 
times noticed hv Arabian writers in connection with 
the inarch of Saladin, and has been visited by many 
modern. travellers (Bobinson, Researches, iii, 156). The 
only remains of Giiuea arc a few foundations of walls 
close to t lie mosque of the present town (l>e Saulcy, 
Narrative, i, 78, 79). The town is high enough to 
overlook the broad plain, and low enough to have its 
houses encircled by its verdure. The hills rise steep- 
ly behind, dotted with bushes, and here and there 
clothed with the sombre foliage of t lie olive. Bicli 
gardens, hedged with prickly pear, extefid along their 
base, and a few palm-trees give variety to the scene. 


The “fountain,” from whicli the town took the first 
pait of its Scripture name (En), is in the hills a few 
hundred yards distant; and its abundant waters flow 
over and fertilize the “ gardens” (Gannim) from which 
the second and chief part of the name is derived. The 
leading road from Jezreel and the north to Samaria 
and Jerusalem passes Jenin. / It contains about 2000 
inhabitants, ami is the capital of a large district (Por- 
ter, Handbook, p. 351 ; Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 
189). 

En-ge'di [many Ei/ -gedi, some En-gedi ] (Ileb. 
Eyn Gedi,', "“Iw )"V, Jountain of the kid; Sept, in 
Josh. *Hvy acct v. r. *A yuavifs, in Sam. ' Eryavci , in 
Chron. and Cant. 'EryoOtfa v. r. Ayyacci and i v Pnc- 
ei, in Ezek. * Evy acetiv v. r. Aryacth’, Apocr. Exgad- 
di ; Josephus ’EyyacVi ; Ptolemy ’EyyaiY/t, v, 10, 8; 
Steplianus Bvz. ’Eyyacd, p. 333; Eusebius Tlyyom, 
Onomast. s. v. ; Pliny, Engudd , Hist. Nat. v. 17), a 
town in the wilderness of Judah (Josh, xv, G2), on the 
western shore of the Dead Sea (Ezek. xlvii, 10), which 
gave its name to a part of the desert whither David 
withdrew for fear of Saul (Josh, xv, G2 ; 1 Sam. xxiv, 
1-4). Its more ancient name was Hazezox-tamar 
(q. v.). and by that name it is mentioned before the 
destruction of Sodom, as being inhabited by the Amo- 
; rites, and near the cities of the plain (Gen. xiv, 7) ; a 
title (“the pruning of the palm”) doubtless derived 
from the palm-groves that surrounded it (Ecclus. xxiv, 
14). It was immediately after an assault upon the 
“Amorites, that dwelt in Ilazezon-tamar,” that the 
five Mesopotamian kings were attacked by the rulers 
of the plain of Sodom (Gen. xiv, 7 ; comp. 2 Chron. 
xx, 2). Saul was told that David was in the “wil- 
derness of En-gedi;” and he took “3000 men, and 
went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the 
wild goats' (1 Sam. xxiv, 1-4). These animals still 
i frequent the cliffs above and around the fountain : t lie 
Arabs call them Beden. At a later period En-gedi 
was the gathering-place of the Moabites and Ammon- 
ites who went up against Jerusalem, and fell in the 
valley of Berachali (2 Chron. xx, 2). It is remarka- 
ble that this is the usual route taken in the present 
day by such predatory bands from Moab as make in- 
cursions into Southern Palestine. They pass round 
the southern end of the Dead Sea, then up the road 
along its western shore to the pass at Ain-Jidy (“the 
ascent by the cliff Ziz,” 2 Chron. xx. 10), and thence 
toward Hebron, Tekoa, or Jerusalem, ns the prospects 
of plunder seem most inviting. The vineyards of En- 
gedi were celebrated bv Solomon (Cant, i, 14); its bal- 
sam by Josephus (Ant. ix, 1, 2). Stephanus of By- 
zantium places it near Sodom; Jerome at the south 
I end of the Dead Sea (Comm, in Ezek. xlvii): but Jose- 
phus more correctly upon the Lake Asphaltites, at the 
distance of 300 stadia from Jerusalem (Ant. ix, 1, 2; 
comp, xvi, 13, 4 : II7w\ iii, 3, 5). In the time of Euse- 
1 bins and Jerome, En-gedi was still a large village on 
the shore of the Dead Sea, hut it must have been 
abandoned very soon afterwards, for there is no subse- 
quent reference to it in history, nor are theie any 
traces of recent habitation (Porter’s Handbook . p. 242). 
There is a curious reference to it in Mandeville (Early 
Trar. p. 179), who says that the district between Jeri- 
cho and the Dead Sea is “ the land of Dengadda” (Er. 
d'Engadda ), and that the halm-trees wore “still called 
vines of Gady.” En-gedi has always, until recently, 
been sought at the north end of the Dead Sea (Boland, 
Palest. ]>. 419); but in 1805 Scetzen recognised the 
ancient name in the Ain-Jidy of the Arabs, and lays 
it down in his map at a point of the western shore 
nearly equidistant from both extremities of the lake. 
This spot was visited by Dr. Bobinson. and he con- 
firms tlie identification (Researches, ii, 209-21G). The. 
I site lies among the mountains, a considerable way 
1 down the descent to the shore. Here is a rich plain, 
half a mile square, sloping very gently from the base 


ENGELBERT 


195 


ENGELHARDT 


of the mountains to the water, and shut in on the | 
nortli by a lofty promontory. About a mile up the 
western acclivity, and at an elevation of some 400 feet 
above the plain, is the fountain of Ain-Jidy, bursting 
forth at once in a fine stream upon a sort of narrow 
terrace or shelf of the mountain, having an abrupt mar- 
gin towards the lake. The water is sweet, but warm, 
and strongly impregnated with lime. The stream 
rushes down the steep descent of the mountain below, 
and its course is hidden by a luxuriant thicket of trees 
and shrubs belonging to a more southern clime. Near 
this fountain are the remains of several buildings, ap- 
parently ancient, although the main site of the town 
seems to have been farther below. The whole of the 
descent below seems to have been once terraced for 
tillage and gardens, and near the foot are the ruins of 
a town, exhibiting nothing of particular interest, and 
built mostly of unhewn stones. This we may con- 
clude was the town which took its name from the 
fountain. On reaching the plain, the brook crosses it 
in nearly a straight line to the sea. During a great 
part of the year it is absorbed in the thirsty soil. Its 
banks are now cultivated by a few families of Arabs, 
who generally pitch their tents near this spot. The 
soil is exceedingly fertile, and in such a climate it 
might be made to produce the rarest frnits of tropical 
climes ; but vineyards no longer clothe the mountain- 
side, and neither palm-tree nor balsam is seen on the 
plain. 

The Wilderness of En-gedi is doubtless the im- 
mediately neighboring part of the wild region west of 
the Dead Sea, which must be traversed to reach its 
shores. It was here that David and his men lived 
among the “rocks of the wild goats,” and where the 
former cut off' the skirts of Saul’s robe in a cave (1 
Sam. xxi, 1-4). “On all sides,” says Dr. Robinson, 
“the country is full of caverns, which might then 
serve as lurking-places for David and his men, as they 
do for outlaws at the present day.” He adds that, as 
he came in sight of the ravine of the Ghdr, a moun- 
tain-goat started up and bounded along the face of the 
rocks on the opposite side ( Researches , ii, 203). M. 
de Saulcy imagines that he has identified the particu- 
lar cave in question with one in that vicinity now 
called Bir el- Mahukieh ( Narrative , i, 1G2). — Kitto, s. 
v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Engelbert, abbot of Admont, of the Benedictine 
order in Styria, was born of noble parents about 1250. 
He became abbot of Admont about 1297, and died 
1331, leaving a great number of works, of which the 
principal are : De ortu , progressu et fine imperii Ro- 
mani , published by Gaspard Brusch (Basle, 1553, 8vo ; 
Mentz, 1003, 8vo): — Tractatus super passimem secun- 
dum Matthamm ; de statu def unctorum ; de Procidentia ; 
de causa longcevitatis hominum ante diluvium: — Specu- 
lum virtutum. Several of his works were published by 
the learned Benedictine monk Pez, partly in the The- 
saurus Anccdotorum Novissimus (Augsb. 1721), partly 
in the Bibliotheca ascetica antiquo-novu (Ratisbon, 1723 
-25). A biography of Engelbert, and a complete list 
of all his works, are given by Pez, both in an intro- 
ductory essay in the 1st volume of the Thesaurus and 
in the preface to the 3d volume of the Bibliotheca.— 
Iloefer, Xonv. Blog. Gener. xvi, 48; Wetzer u.Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. iii, 589. (A. J. S.) 

Engelbert, Saint, archbishop of Cologne, was a 
son of count Engelbert I of Bcrg-GeJdern, and was 
born in 1185. When he was twenty-two years old the 
diocese of Munster was offered to him, but he declined 
it on the ground of youth and inexperience. In 1215 
he was elected archbishop of Cologne. With great 
energy he reorganized the electorate, which, under the 
administration of his predecessors, had become quite 
disordered. He extinguished its debt, recovered those 
portions of its territory which had been lost, and ac- 
quired new ones. When the emperor Friedrich II 


was called to Italy, Engelbert -was appointed head of 
the regency to which was intrusted the administration 
of the empire. As archbishop, Engelbert made' the 
utmost endeavors to reform the corrupt habits of the 
clergy, and to repel the interference of the nobility in 
ecclesiastical affairs. The rigor with which he car- 
ried through his principles made him many enemies, 
and on Nov. 7, 1225, lie was surprised and assassinated 
at Gevelsberg by his nephew, count Friedrich von 
Isenburg. The murderer was captured and broken 
on the wheel ; the bishops of Munster and Osnabruck, 
who were charged with complicity, were excommuni- 
cated ; and Engelbert, on account of his zeal for en- 
larging the power of the Church, was enrolled in the 
number of saints. A life of Engelbert, by Ca?sar of 
Heisterbach (q. v.), was, in 1G30, edited by Gelenius, 
with many learned remarks and additions (Vindex 
libertatis ecclcsuv. et martyr St. Eugelbertus, Colonial, 
1030); see also Ficker, Engelbert der IJeilige, Cologne, 
1853 ; Wetzer u. Wclte, Kirchen-Lex . iii, 590. See also 
Cologne. (A. J. S.) 

Engelbrecht, Johann, a visionary religionist, 
was born in Brunswick 1599. He was sickly from 
his youth, and suffered dreadfully from melancholy, 
caused by physical pain as well as by mental disturb- 
ance. lie believed himself (after 1G23) the subject 
of revelations and visions, and went from house to 
house preaching and narrating his supernaturally ac- 
quired knowledge of heaven and hell. Some preach- 
ers, like Paul Egard, in Holstein, gave very favorable 
testimonials of his character and his preaching; but 
the larger number took offence at his pretended rev- 
elations, and persecuted him. In Hambnrg, where 
he spent several years, he was imprisoned. During 
the last years of his life he lived in great retirement in 
his native city. He died in 1G44. Though unlettered, 
he wrote several books, especially a Vvw of Heaven 
(Brunswick, 1G25) ; and they were collected in 1G40, 
and again in 1G97, into editions of his Wert e und Ojfen- 
barungen (Brunsw. and Amstcrd.). Some of his writ- 
ings have been translated into French and English. — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 32. 

Engelhardt, Johann Georg Veit, a German 
theologian, was born at Neustadt on the Aicb, Nov. 

1 12, 1791. After studying for three years at the Uni- 
versity of Erlangen, and being for several years a tu- 
tor in two noble families, he was, in 1817, appointed 
deacon at a church in Erlangen and professor at the 
gymnasium. In 1820 he became lecturer at the Uni- 
versity of Erlangen, and obtained the degree of doctor 
of divinity ; the next year he was advanced to an ex- 
| traordinavy, and in 1822 to an ordinary professorship 
at the university. The latter position he retained un- 
til his death, Sept. 13, 1855. For several years he 
held the office of university preacher, and five times 
he was elected rector of the university. From 1845 
to 1848 he was deputy of the university in the Bava- 
rian diet. The king of Bavaria conferred upon him 
the title of ecclesiastical councillor and the order of 
St. Michael, and the city of Erlangen the right of hon- 
orary citizenship. In the history of theological liter- 
ature, Engelhardt has secured a lasting place by his 
manuals of Church history and history of doctrines 
(Handbnch der Kirchengeschichte, 4 vols., Erlangen, 
1833-34; Dogmengeschichte , 2 vols., Nfcustadt, 1839). 
He gave special attention to the study of the history 
of mystic theology. His intention to write a compre- 
hensive history of this theology he did not find time 
to carry out, but he wrote a number of separate arti- 
cles on the subject. Among the most important of 
this class of his works are those on Dionysius Areop- 
agita ( Dissertatio de Diongsio plotinizante , Erlangen, 
1820; De origine scriptorum Arenpagiticorum, Erlang. 
1823; Die angebl. Schri ften des A reop agi ten Dionysius , 
ubersetzt u. mit Abhandlungen begleitet , Erlang. 1823, 2 
vols.) ; on Plotinus (Riotin' s Enneaden , iibersctzt u. mit 


ENGINE 


196 


ENGINE 


Anmerkungen , part i, Erlangen, 1820, incomplete); on 
Iiickard of St. Victor and liuvsbroek (Hick, von St. 
Victor u. Joh. Ruysbroek , Erlang. 183S). Several other 
works on kindred topics are preserved in MS. in the 
library of the Erlangen University. Next to mystic 
theology, the study of the Church fathers was one of 
his favorite occupations, to which we owe a work on 
patristics (Leitfaden zu Vorlesungcn uber Pair is 1 ik, Er- 
lang. 1823). lie also left in MS. a complete transla- 
tion of Iremeus. A biographical sketch of Engelhardt 
is given in the funeral sermon by his colleague, pro- 
fessor Thomasius (Erlang. 1855). See Herzog, ReaU 
Encyklop. xix, 479. (A. J. S.) 

Engine (pg\at>t), machine, 1 Macc. v, 30, etc. ; 2 
Macc. xii, 15, etc.), a term exclusively applied in Scrip- 
ture to military affairs. Such instruments were cer- 
tainly known much earlier than the Greek writers ap- 
pear to admit, since figures of them occur in Egyptian 
monuments, where two kinds of the testudo , or pent- 
house, used as shelters for the besiegers, are represent- 
ed, and a colossal lance, worked by men who, under 
the cover of a testudo , drive the point between the 
stones of a city wall. See Fort. 


■were of much inferior strength. Darts varied simi- 
larly from small beams to large arrows, and the range 
they had exceeded a quarter of a mile, or about 450 
yards. All these engines were constructed upon the 
principle of the sling, the bow, or the spring, the last 




1. The Hebrew ‘j'C'i’H, chishshabon' (2 Chron. xxvi, 
15), lit. invention (as in Eccles. vii, 29), is its counter- 
part in etymological meaning, each referring to the in- 
genuity (engine, from ingenium ) displayed in the con- 
trivance. The engines to which the term is applied 
in 2 Chron. were designed to propel various missiles 
from the walls of a besieged town : one, like the balis- 
ta , was for stones, consisting probably of a strong 
spring and a tube to give the right direction to the 
stone; another, like the ccitapulta, for arrows, an enor- 
mous stationary bow. The invention of these is as- 
signed to Uzziah’s time — a statement which is sup- 
ported both by the absence of such contrivances in the 
representations of Egyptian and Assyrian warfare, and 
by the traditional belief that the balista was invented 
in Syria (Pliny, vii, 56). Of the balistae and cata- 



Iioman Catapult. 

pultaa it may be proper to add that they were of vari- 
ous powers. For battering walls there were some that 
threw stones of fifty, others of one hundred, and some 
of three hundred weight; in the field of battle they 


being an elastic bar, bent back by a screw or a cable 
of sinews, with a trigger to set it free, and contrived 
either to impel darts by its stroke, or to throw stones 
from a kind of spoon formed towards the summit of 
the spring. (See Smith’s Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. 
Tormentum.') Sec War. 



2. Another military engine with which the Hebrews 
were acquainted was the battering-ram, described in 
Ezek. xxvi, 9 as mcchV kobollo', lit. a beat- 

ing of that which is in its front, hence a ram for strik- 
ing walls; and still more precisely in Ezek. iv, 2, xxi, 
22 as “'2, kar, a ram. The use of this instrument was 
well known both to the Egyptians (Wilkinson, Anc. 
Eg. i, 359) and the Assyrians. The references in Eze- 
kiel are to the one used by the latter people, consist- 
ing of a high and stoutly-built framework on four 
wheels, covered in at the sides in order to protect the 
men moving it, and armed with one or two pointed' 


ENGINE 


197 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


weapons. Their appearance was very different from 
that of the Roman aries with which the Jews after- 
wards became acquainted (Joseph. I Tar, iii, 7, 19). No 
notice is taken of the testudo or the vinea (comp. Ezek. 
xxvi, 9, Vulg.), but it is not improbable that the He- 
brews were acquainted with them (comp. Wilkinson, i, 
3G1). The marginal rendering “engines of shot” (Jer. 
vi, 6; xxxii, 24; Ezek. xxvi, 8) is incorrect. An en- 
gine for battering the wall is mentioned in the reign 
of king David (2 Sam. xx, 15); but the instrument it- 
self for throwing it down may have been that above 
noticed, and not the battering-ram. The ram was, 
however, a simple machine, and capable of demolish- 



Homan Battering-ram worked by hand. 

ing the strongest walls, provided access to the foot was 
practicable, for the mass of cast metal which formed 
the head could be fixed to a beam lengthened suffi- 
ciently to require between one and two hundred men 
to lift and impel it; and when it was still heavier and 
hung in the lower floor of a movable tower, or helepo - 
lis, it became a most formidable engine of war — one 
used in all great sieges from the time of Demetrius, 
about B.C. 300, till long after the invention of gun- 
powder. Towers of this kind were largely used at the 
destruction of Jerusalem (q. v.) b} r the Romans. — Kit- 
to, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Battering-ram. 



Roman co/ered Battering-ram mounted oa Wheels. 



Roman Ilelepolis or movable Tower and Battering-ram com- 
bined. 


England, Church of. The proper designation 
of this chureh since the Act of Union in 1801 is “ The 
United Chureh of England and Ireland.” The Re 7 
formed Church of England dates from the 10th cen- 
tury ; but it is convenient to treat in this article of 
the rise of Christianity in England, and of its growth 
under the protection of the State. (The free churches 
of England are given under their several titles in this 
work.) 

1. History. — (I.) Early Period (to the mission of 
Augustine, A.D. 59G). 1. To the Saxon Invasion , 

A.D. 449. It is generally believed that Christianity 
was introduced into Britain before the end of the 2d 
century. Tertullian (f about 220) speaks of places in 
Britain not reached by the Romans, but yet subject to 
Christ (Britannorum inaceessa Romanis loca, Christo 
vero snbdita). Eusebius, indeed, declares that some 
of the apostles preached in Britain (Bern. Evany, iii, 
7) ; Stillingfleet ( Origines Britanniecv, c. i), Cave ( Lives 
of the Apostles), and others, insist that St. Paul was 
the founder of British Christianity. Clemens Roma- 
nus (A.D. 101) says that Paul went to the limits of 
the West (to rtppct rijq Svatioc, I Epist. ad Cor.); 
and Theodoret (f 457) says that Paul brought salva- 
tion to the isles of the ocean (raiq tv r<p 7rt\ctytt Cia- 
iceif.th>aiQ vijcroiq, in Psalm cxvi). But none of these 
hints amount to proof. Other traditions use the 
names of St. James, of Simon Zelotes, and of Joseph 
of Arimathea; asserting that the latter came over 
A.D. 35, or about the twenty-first year of Tiberius, 
and died in England. Of all this there is no proof 
(Fuller, Ch. Hist, of Britain , i, 13; Stillingfleet, Orig. 
c. iv ; Short, Ch. History of England, i, § 2). Another 
legend is that an English king, Lucius, sent messen- 
gers to Eleutherius (f 192), bishop of Rome, asking for 
Christian instruction ; that the messengers were con- 
verted and ordained, one a bishop and the other a 
teacher; and that on their return king Lucius and his 
chief men were baptized, and a regular Church order 
established (Collier, Eccl. History, vol. i, ch. i ; Smith, 
Religion of Ancient Britain, ch. v). But it is very 
doubtful whether there ever was a king Lucius, and 
the whole story is now generally discredited. 

The Gospel having been introduced into Britain, a 
Christian Chureh subsisted there, though not always 
in an equal degree of vigor, till the persecution of Di- 
ocletian. It then acquired new strengtli from the for- 
titude of its martyrs. Though the names of only three 
have been recorded (St. Alban, Aaron, and Julius), yet 
all historians agree that numbers suffered in Britain 
with the greatest constancy and courage (compare 
Gildas, § 8 ; Bede, i, G, 7). The first martyr is said 
to have been St. Alban, who lived in the town of 
Verulam, which had a Roman colony; he had been 
converted from paganism by a teacher to whom lie 
had afforded protection from the general persecution. 
Though Constantius, the Roman governor of Britain, 
had an inclination to favor the Christians, yet it was 
not in his power to dispense with the edicts of the em- 
perors, and he complied so far witli them as to demol- 
ish the churches. Though he died a pagan, yet he 
granted to the Christians the free exercise of their 
religion, and protected them from injury or insult. 
This emperor died at York, and was succeeded by his 
son Constantine, A.D. 306 (Carwithen, Hist, of Chris- 
tian Church, chap. xvi). The best illustration of the 
early organization of Christianity in Britain is the fact 
that three British bishops attended the council at Arles, 
A.D. 314, the canons of which have among their sign- 
ers Eborius episcopus, de civitate Eboracensi, provin- 
cia Britannia ; Restitntus episcopus, de civitate Londi- 
nensi, provincia suprascripta ; Adelfius episcopus, de 
civitate colonia Londinensium (perhaps Colonia Lindi, 
i. e. Lincoln ); compare Jac. Usserii Brit, eccles. antiq. 
(Loud. 1687) ; Bingham, Orig. Eccl. iii, 557 sq. British 
bishops also attended the councils of Sardica (A.D 
347) and of Ariminum (A.D. 359). 


ENGLAND, CIIUIICII OF 


19S 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


Little is accurately known of the real state of Chris- 
tianity in this period. Pelagiunism took root in Brit- 
ain (the native country of Belarus), and the British 
bishops called in Gernianus and Lupus from Gaul, 
who refuted Felagius at the conference of Verulam 
(A.D. 446). They also founded a cathedral at Llan- 
daftj making Dubricius bishop, with extensive juris- 
diction. The monastery of Banehor (Bangor), near 
Chester, was founded at about the same time. 

2. From the Saxon Invasion , 440, to the Invasion of 
Augustine, 59G. — Hengist and Horsa, retained by Vorti- 
gern, A.D. 449, to aid him with 5000 men in expelling 
the Seots and Piets from Britain, remained in the isl- 
and as conquerors. The greater part of Britain was 
again plunged into barbarism, and Christianity kept 
its ground only in Wales and Cornwall. (Its history 
in Ireland and Scotland is given in separate articles.) 
The patron saint of Wales, St. David (Gth century), is 
said to have been consecrated a bishop at Jerusalem; 
he held a s}*nod against Pelagianism at Brevy, and be- 
came archbishop of Caerleon (see David, St.). In 
Cornwall the British rites and usages were preserved 
until near the end of the 7th century. Iona, where 
Columba (q. v.) established his foundations about 5G5, 
was a centre of light not only for Scotland, but also 
for north Britain (see Iona). 

(II.) Middle Age: Era of Submission to the Papacy 
(Gth to 16th century). Up to the 6th century British 
Christianity had been independent of Home. But at 
that time Gregory the Great determined to seek the 
Conversion of the English Saxons to Christianity. 
Ethelbert, king of Kent, had married a Christian wife, 
Bertha, daughter of Charibert, king of the Franks. 
She induced her husband to favor Christianity, and 
thus prepared the way for the mission of Augustine 
(sent by Gregory), who, with a number of monks, 
landed in 596. They converted Ethelbert, who was 
not only king of Kent, but Bnctwalda, or chief of the 
Saxon monarchs. His example was soon followed by 
the kings of Essex and East Anglia, and gradually by 
the other chieftains of England. It is said that 10,000 
English were baptized within the year of Augustine's 
arrival. In 597 Augustine went over to Arles, in 
France, where he was consecrated by bishop Yirgilius, 
and on his return he became the lirst bishop of Can- 
terbury. His see Avas immediately endowed by king 
Ethelbert, who likewise established the dioceses of 
Rochester and London. Another portion of the Anglo- 
Saxons w’ere converted by Aidan and other Scottish 
missionaries. But the ecclesiastical system set up by 
the Homan missionaries was entirely of the Homan 
type, which differed from that of the Irish and of the 
old British Church in various points, e. g. the reckon- 
ing of Easter, the clerical tonsure, chrism, etc. More 
important were the questions of the marriage of the 
clergy and of the papal jurisdiction. Wherever the 
Romish influence prevailed, the Roman view, of course, 
was adopted. But Scottish and Irish missionaries 
were also at Avork in the kingdom, and up to the 7th 
century the converts of the latter were probably in 
the majority. In 664, king Oswy of Northumberland 
held a conference at Whitby, where Column (q. v.) of 
Lindisfarne maintained the old British and Irish views, 
and Wilfrid (q. v.) took the Iloman side. The king 
was persuaded by Wilfrid (or perhaps by his queen, 
who was a Romanist), and Avent over to the Roman 
party. Column and all his clergy then went to Ire- 
land. In 668 the pope sent over Theodore to be pri- 
mate of England, and under his administration (668- 
689) the Roman and British Christians (wliat remained 
of them) were fused into one body. See Theodore. 
But for many ages we hear little of any exercise of 
jurisdiction by the popes in England : the English 
bishops and kings did not permit appeals to Rome. 
When Wilfrid, bishop of Y-ork, appealed, A.D. 680, 
against an English synod which had deposed him 
from his diocese, and obtained a decree in his favor 


from the pope, that decree was disregarded in Eng- 
land, even Theodore himself refusing to obey it. From 
this period England Avas in formal connection with the 
see of Rome up to the time of the Reformation. A few 
great names shine amid the general gloom, e. g. Bede 
(t 735), Alenin (f 804), king Alfred (f 900). The An- 
glo-Saxon Church, from the time of Alfred, grew' more 
and more Romish. “At length, from the time of 
Gregory VII (A.D. 1073), the papal jurisdiction was 
pushed into England, as it was into other countries; 
legates made frequent visits, held councils, exacted 
subsidies. Appeals, dispensations, mandates, reserves, 
annates, bulls, and all the other inconveniences of 
papal usurpation, follow ed each other in rapid succes- 
sion ; and for four centuries no country in Europe suf- 
fered more, and with greater reluctance, than Eng- 
land. But the popes and the kings of England had, 
after much disputation, made their agreement, and the 
Church Avas their prey” ( Palmer, Ch. History , ch. xxii). 

The Norman Conquest took place A.D. 1066. From 
this period, for several centuries, the history of Eng- 
land is full of struggles between the ecclesiastical and 
royal power for supremacy. William the Conqueror 
refused to acknoAvledge the pope as his feudal supe- 
rior, and declared his right to retain in his own hand 
the investiture of bishops and abbots which the early 
Saxon kings had possessed. He prohibited the pub- 
lishing of papal bulls and letters of advice till they 
had been submitted to and approved of by him ; and, 
further, he deprived the clergy of the right of exeom- 
| munieating any of his nobles except Avith his express 
I permission. On the other hand, “he confirmed by 
charter a law of EdAvard the Confessor, granting to 
the clergy tithe of cattle and profits, in addition to the 
ancient tithe of produce,” and committed a still great- 
er eiTor in establishing ecclesiastical courts, to which 
alone clerical persons were thenceforth to be amena- 
ble. The “spiritual courts” became an enormous 
power in supporting the Roman domination. In 1076 
celibacy Avas first made imperative on the English 
clergy. “Under Henry Beauclerc a synod met at 
Westminster, 1102, which passed various reforming 
measures, the nature of Avliich attests the existing de- 
j pravity and degradation of the Church. This synod 
prohibited simony, and the pope ruled that la}' inves- 
titure Avas simony, and on this question a rupture be- 
| tAveen the pope and the king soon occurred. After a 
struggle to maintain the rights of investiture, which 
he had received Avith the crown, Henry felt himself 
compelled to relinquish them to the pope, and only got 
permission from the pope for bishops to do homage to 
him, if they chose, without being on that account re- 
moved from their sees. None of the proposed mcas- 
| ures of reform accomplished any result. The morals 
i of the clergy Avere thoroughly relaxed ; murder by a 
person in holy orders was quite a usual occurrence ; 
against such offenders there Avas no resort to common 
la at, and ecclesiastical courts rarely interfered Avith 
them. A case of this kind gave rise to the protracted 
struggle betAveen Thomas h Beeket, archbishop of 
Canterbury, on the side of the pope, and Henry II. 

| for himself and people” (Eadie, Cyclopedia , s. v.). 
The “ Constitutions of Clarendon” (see Clarendon) 
1 were intended to secure the rights of the civil against 
the ecclesiastical poAver ; blit the resistance of Beeket 
(q. v.), his murder, and the repentant fears of the 
king, caused their speedy revocation in all the points 
to winch the pope objected. “ It was not, however, 
till the reign of John, Avhen England was laid under 
an interdict, and the king resigned his crown to the 
1 pope, that the papal encroachments rose to their height; 

I and the Aveak reign of Henry III, Avhich followed, did 
nothing to abate them. Edward I gave a check to 
the poAver of the clergy, subjected them to taxation, 
and passed the statute of mortmain (1279), Avliich pro- 
hibited the transfer of land Avithout the king’s consent. 
There is little to be said as to innovations in doctrine 


EXGLAND, CHURCH OF 199 ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


daring these three centuries ; but it may be noted that 
about the middle of this period, viz. 1213, the Council 
of St.John Lateran declared transnbstantiation, or the 
bodily presence of Christ in the consecrated elements, 
to be a tenet of the Church” (Chambers, s. v.). In 
1350 the important statute of Provisors was passed. 
It was provoked by the fact that most of the valuable 
English benetices were reserved to the pope or to 
alien clergy, and it provided that the pope should con- 
fer no English benefice on any one without consent of 
the king. The statute of Prmmunire (1389; enlarged 
1393) forbade any interference of the Church with the 
statute of Pro visors, and also all appeals from English 
civil courts to the pope. The statute of Mortmain (in 
Magna Charta), and the various amendments and ad- 
ditions to it, all aimed to prevent the accumulation of 
property in the Church. 8c e Mortmain. 

In the reign of Henry II certain German Church 
reformers found their way to England — probably Wal- 
densian Christians; and, though they were bitterly 
persecuted, all the good seed did not perish. In 1327 
John Wycliffe was born. As rector of Lutterworth 
he preached until his death against the supremacy of 
the pope, the abuses of the hierarchy, and the Romish 
doctrine of the sacraments. In 1377 he was arrested 
for heresy, but no harm came to him. Kis translation 
of the Scriptures, and other writings, made a great im- 
pression upon the more educated classes, but his labors 
had little effect upon the mass of Jhe people. After 
his death more fruit appeared ; and by 1400 his follow- 
ers were numerous enough to form a party and to get 
the designation of Lollards (q. v.), and for a century 
persecution for Lollardism ivas common in England. 
“ Henry IV thought it necessary to fortify his usurped 
position by assisting the bishops against the Lollards, 
and from this time to the Reformation there w r as an 
uninterrupted succession of confessors and martyrs. 
Sir John Oldcastle, lord Cobliam, w’as the most illus- 
trious of these sufferers. Fox gives a detailed account 
of nearly twenty individuals burned for heresy be- 
tween the death of lord Cobliam and 1509, when llenrv 
VIII ascended the throne. To some extent, the blood 
of these martyrs was the seed of the Reformed Church ; 
but w'e must not overlook the ‘hidden seed,’ which was 
growing secretly from the time that "Wycliffe gave to 
his countrymen a translation of the Scriptures in their 
own tongue. The progress of learning, and especially 
the study of Greek, led to a better understanding of 
the sacred books, whilst the invention of printing 
(1442) caused a wider circulation of them” (Chambers, 
s. v.). See Wycliffe; Lollards. 

(III.) From the Reformation to the present Time . — 
The Church of Rome, however, was to all outward ap- 
pearance fairly established in England at the time of 
the accession of Henry VIII in L509 [see Henry 
VI 11], and his minister, cardinal Wolsey, maintained 
the splendor of the Church to a degree unexampled in 
England. Nevertheless, the great edifice was already 
undermined. In view of the facts cited in the last 
paragraph, it is absurd to say, as Roman writers do, 
that the source of the English Reformation is to be 
found in the vices of Henry VIII. However, it was 
not till the reign of that monarch that the Reformation 
in England in reality commenced. When Luther de- 
clared war against the pope, Henry wrote his treatise 
on the seven sacraments against Luther's book, Of the 
Captivity of Jiabylon, and was repaid by the pontiff" 
with the title of “ Defender of the Faith” (1521). The 
king had married his brother’s widow', Catharine of 
Aragon, and was weary of her. Wolsey at first fa- 
vored a divorce, “to revenge himself on Charles V for 
having disappointed him of the papac} r ; but after the 
king began to look with favor on Anne Holey n, one 
of a house from w hom Wolsey had everything to fear, 
he adopted a covert policy of opposition to the divorce 
he had suggested. When at last he w r as pressed on 
every side, with no open way before him, and his own 


ruin imminent, his course became tortuous, and was 
marked by a constant endeavor to protract the pro- 
ceedings, and delay any sentence being pronounced 
on this question by the pope. The issue w'as, in con- 
sequence of the advice of Cranmer, an appeal to the 
universities, and to the learned men of Christendom, 
for the ; r opinion on this point, which was giten in fa- 
vor, for the most part, of Henry. The disgrace of 
Wolsey followed thereon. See Wolsey. Henry's 
quarrel with the pope daily became more palpable 
Convocation w'as summoned in 1531, and charged with 
breaking the statutes of provisors and preemtmire . 
They humbly offered to pay a fine. The first step to- 
wards a schism w'as made by this Convocation, but it 
w'as under the pressure of the court. They proclaimed 
the king of England ‘only and supreme lord, and, as 
far as the law of Christ permits, even the supreme head 
of the Church of England.’ In 1533, on the elevation 
of Cranmer to the see of Canterbury, he pronounced 
sentence of divorce between Henry VIII and Catha- 
rine ; and the marriage of Anne Bolevn to Henry was 
publicly notified. The pope declared this illegal, and 
threatened, unless these doings w r ere undone, that he 
would pronounce excommunication on Henry. To 
prevent any such proceedings affecting the stability 
of liis throne and his succession, in the following year 
Henry caused Parliament to abolish all papal author- 
ity in England, and to stop all payments to the Roman 
exchequer. After this came, under Thomas Crom- 
well, acting as vice-regent, a blow upon popish power 
in England from which it never recovered — namely, 
first a visitation, and then, as a consequence, the sup- 
pression of the monasteries, because ‘ they had long 
and notoriously been guilty of vicious and abominable 
living.’ Among the bishops there w'ere tw r o parties; 
one whose sympathies were with- the pope, the other 
with reform ; to the former belonged Bonner and Gar- 
diner, to the latter Cranmer and Latimer. But it was 
necessary to have some authoritative declaration of 
w hat the Church of England held since it had rejected 
the pope; and lienee, in 153G, the king, as head of the 
Church, issued a proclamation on this subject, and ill 
1539 Parliament passed an act for establishing the 
Creed, under the rather characteristic title, ‘An act 
for abolishing diversity of opinions.’ By this the 
doctrine of transubstantiation was taught, and the 
penalty of death by burning w r as attached to the denial 
of it. All who stood out for ‘ the necessity of the 
communion in both kinds, or for the marriage of 
priests, or against the observance of vows of chastity, 
or the propriety of private masses, or the fitness of 
auricular confession ; all priests who shall marry after 
having advisedly made vows of chastity, shall suffer 
the pains of death as felons ; and all those w ho main- 
tain the same errors under any other manner may be 
imprisoned during the king’s pleasure’ ” (Mackintosh). 
Henry felt compelled to go on and increase the dis- 
tance which separated him from Rome. There w r as 
in the Church a powerful party (Cranmer, Latimer, 
and many others of less note) that were of progressive 
tendencies, and to this party Thomas Cromwell, dur- 
ing his continuance in power, lent all his influence. 
His favor shown to the Protestant cause was one 
ground of his fall. About this time, too, several edi- 
tions of the English Bible w ere printed and circulated 
with the permission of Henry. I licy w'ere based upon 
Coverdale’s translation. To Cranmer and Cromwell 
the permission to circulate them is due, and the com- 
mand to place them in the cathedrals for public use, 
and for ministers to instruct their people in them. 
But the tide of political power now turned in favor of 
the Romanist party, and these permissions w r ere with- 
drawn : the Bible became again for a time a prohibited 
book, and many who bad received enlightened views 
of truth suffered bitter persecution. “ In 1540 Cran- 
mer persuaded Henry to appoint a commission, of 
which lie was made a member, to draw up a formal 


200 


ENGLAND, CIIURCII OF 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


confession. This appeared under the title, The. Erudi- I 
lion of a Christian Man. It indicates some progress, 
since it only recommends prayers for the dead as 
‘good and charitable; and because it is not known 
what condition departed souls are in, we ought only j 
to recommend them to the mercy of God.’ It affirms 
justification by faith, though it modifies this declara- 
tion so far as to add, ‘Yet man, prevented by grace, j 
is by his free consent and obedience a worker toward 
the attaining of his own justification.’ It forbids the 
worship of images, though it allows their use to excite , 
devotional feeling. It altered some minor matters | 
also in t lie service. Such was the character of the 
Church of England’s first confession. The Ke formers 
were gaining strength, and under Edward VI and the | 
Protector Somerset their triumph was undoubted. 
Thirty commissioners were sent through the country 
to abolish superstitions practices. Cranmer drew up 
twelve homilies, which were appointed to be read in 
the ehurches where the ministers could not preach. 
This was one of the provisions made far the diffusion 
of sound religious knowledge. This step, and the ser- 
mons themselves, elicited the unqualified approbation 
of the Continental Reformers. Cranmer "wrote also a 
catechism, which was generally circulated. Such the- 
ologians as Buecr and Peter Martyr were invited to 
come and lecture in the English universities; and the 
most strenuous exertions were made to provide preach- 
ing ; ‘ one sermon ever} 7 quarter of tiie year at least’ 
in every church being imperative. But such was the 
state of the Romish clergy that even this mueh they 
could hardly accomplish. In 1547 Parliament repealed 
t lie various persecuting acts of Henry VII 1 and earlier 
reigns, levelled against the new opinions, as they are 
often called. As Convocation was inclined in favor 
of the Romish party, Parliament assumed to itself the 
task of reforming the Church. It passed that year 
acts ‘concerning the sacrament,’ ordaining ‘the com- 
munion to be received in both kinds,’ forbidding the 
priest to eommimicate alone, and requiiing him to 
prepare the people for worthily communicating by an 
exhortation on the day preceding its celebration. In 
1548 then 1 was a commission appointed for the revision 
of the offices of public worship. One of its first fruits 
was a new communion service. Confession was no 
longer made imperative. At the same time a new lit- 
urgy was compiled. At the end of it occurs the peti- 
tion — ‘ From the tyranny of the bishop of Rome and 
all his detestable enormities, good Lord, deliver us.’ 
See Common Prayer. In 1551 a farther series of 
emendations was made in the Prayer-book: in it very 
few alterations have since been introduced. The same 
year the Articles, then forty-two in number, were pub- 
lished. See Articles, Thirty-nine. The commis- 
sion appointed in 1552 to prepare a canon law, in con- 
sequence of the death of Edward, was discontinued 
before its work was done. Under bis reign the prog- 
ress of reformation bad been rapid, but it was to be 
sorely tried. Mary ascended the throne (1553) and 
re-established Romanism. Bonner and Gardiner were 
restored; the Book of Common Prayer and Catechism 
were declared heretical; the kingdom was reconciled 
to the see of Rome ; a persecution of the chief reform- 
ers commenced — Rogers was burned at Smithfield, 
Hooper at Gloucester, Saunders at Coventry, Taylor 
at Hadley. The prisons were filled with ‘heretics;’ 
many lied beyond sea; some purchased safety by an 
outward conformity. Cranmer, Latimer, and Ridley 
perished in the flames at Oxford. Cardinal Pole was 
made primate. One benefit was conferred on the 
Church by Mary — she surrendered all the Church 
lands, as well as the first-fruits and tenths, which had 
been seized by Ilenry. At last the death, of Mary 
(155s), with which that of the cardinal was all hut 
simultaneous, delivered the Church froirt its oppress- 
ors. Under Elizabeth (1558-1603) Protestantism was 
again in the ascendant; and by the various measures 


which were taken, the Reformation in England was 
completed. The Convocation of 1562, besides drawing 
u]) the Thirty-nine Articles, published two volumes of 
homilies by Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer, and caused 
Nowell, dean of St. Paul’s, to draw up a catechism for 
general use. See Nowell. 

“About this time the more extreme reforming party 
began to appear (see Puritans), and to exert their in- 
fluence specially in all the questions which arose about 
the various ceremonies of tho Church. Elizabeth’s 
extreme jealousy of her supreme authority often ob- 
structed the plans for reform which the more zealous 
elergv contrived — a jealousy which brought her into 
collision with the primate himself, as on the subject of 
‘ the prophesy nigs. ’ The works of the great Conti- 
nental divines, as Calvin and Bullinger, were studied 
in England ; ami the great standard work of Richard 
Hooker on Ecclesiastical Polity — which may be styled 
the apology of the Church of England — was published 
15*34-97. 

“ When James ascended the throne, both the Puri- 
tans and the Church party calculated on having his 
support. The Puritans hastened to present to him the 
famous Millenary Petition, which embodied a state- 
ment of those things in the Church which they desired 
to see amended. This elicited from the universities a 
I counter-petition, and James held a conference with 
both parties at Hampton Court (q. v.), January, 1604. 
It resulted in no. good to the Puritans, for king James 
[ now thought Episcopacy was most conformable to 
J monarchy, and the reply to their arguments he pithily 
put in the form ‘No bishop, no king.’ One advan- 
tage which ensued from this conference was the revis- 
ion of the translation of the Bible, instituted at the 
! suggestion of the leader of the Puritans, and the re- 
sult was the present authorized version. During the 
reign of James the famous Synod of Dort met, and four 
English divines were sent thither by James. See 
1 Dort, Synod of. Henceforward the Calvinistie par- 
ty in the Church of England began to decline, and 
king James himself turned against it. James first is- 
sued the Book of Sports in 1618, and offended very 
many, because he thereby legally sanctioned certain 
! amusements on the Sabbath day. Under Charles it 
was republished in 1663, the declaration affirming that 
it was clone 1 out of a pious care for the service of God 

and the ease, comfort, and recreation of our 

well-deserving people.’ It was received with mani- 
fest disgust, and many of the clergy refused to obey 
the ordinance requiring its publication in the elm relies. 
In 1644 the House of Commons caused it to be burnt 
by the hangman. See Sports, Book of.” Under 
Charles, the H igli-Cliurch party, with Laud at their 
head, rose to the highest power. The court of High 
Commission and the Star Chaml cr never had more 
constant employment, and their hateful tyranny most 
thoroughly roused the people. The severity of Land 
occasioned the greatest discontent; and the Puritan 
party, as they could not maintain themselves in the 
Church, began to found special lectureships; but, on 
Laud’s advice, the king issued instructions to the bish- 
ops to suppress all such. Forbearance at last came to 
an end. Then came the great rebellion and civil war, 
which led to tlie putting down of Episeopaev, and the 
establishment of Presbyterianism on the basis of the 
Westminster Confession, though afterwards Independ- 
ency took the lead. Laud was condemned the day af- 
ter the House of Commons established Presbyterian- 
ism, and executed January 10, 1645. 

“With the restoration of Charles II occurred the 
restoration of Episeopaev in England. The Sunday 
after his return heard the litmyy read in almost every 
parish church. The Puritans, who are henceforward 
known as Presbyterians (q. v.), having greatly con- 
tributed to the restoration, were treated at first by 
Charles with kindness, and several of their number 
were offered high ecclesiastical preferments. In 1661 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 201 ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


the famous Savoy Conference (q. v.) met, with Baxter 
as leader of the Presbyterian party, and Sheldon as 
that of the bishops, to try, if possible, to unite both 
sides. As might have been expected, the plan failed. 
In 1GG2 the Act of Uniformity was passed ; and, rather 
than take the test it prescribed, 2000 Puritan clergy 
left the Church of England. Then, in quick succes- 
sion, followed those persecuting acts, the Corporation, 
Conventicle, and Five-miles Acts. Still further griev- 
ances were indicted by the Test Act of 1G72. Next 
arose another school of divines — ‘Christian philoso- 
phers rather than divines.’ Their lives were moral, 
but they eviscerated the Gospel of all that was char- 
acteristic of it. When a plan for ‘comprehension’ was 
revived in 1GG8, the House of Commons prohibited 
such a measure being introduced. When James, duke 
of York, professed Homan Catholicism, Charles at once 
proclaimed complete toleration. This was in 1G72; 
but the Commons the year following compelled him to 
withdraw his indulgence. Popery they were deter- 
mined to resist. When James came into power he 
proclaimed similar indulgences, and forbade preaching 
against Romanist errors ; nay, in defiance of the enact- 
ment of 1651, he re-created the court of High Commis- 
sion. These measures the clergy resisted. In conse- 
quence of his resistance, the bishop of London was sus- 
pended for a time. The L T niversity of Cambridge 
came into collision with the king, and also Magdalen 
College, Oxford. Rather than do what might advan- 
tage Home, the Nonconformists did not avail them- 
selves of the royal indulgence. But James renewed 
his declaration, and commanded that it should be pub- 
lished in the churches. Eighteen out of twenty-five 
bishops refused to do so, and nearly all the clergy. 
The bishops were commanded to cite the recusants, but 
they refused. Seven of them — Sancroft, Lloyd, Ken, 
Turner, Lake, White, andTrelawney — even drew up a 
remonstance, and, as a consequence, were sent to the 
Tower. Their committal to it had rather the appear- 
ance of a triumphal entry, from the enthusiasm dis- 
played by the people on their behalf. They were tried 
at Westminster Ilall, and the news of their acquittal 
was received with rapturous delight on all hands, for 
all felt that they were committed to a struggle against 
an insidious attempt to restore Popery. The royal 
career of James was now ending, and his further 
schemes were not developed, for that very year the 
Prince of Orange landed (5th of November, 1G88). 
One of William’s earliest acts was the passing of a tol- 
eration bill in 16S9 ; but an act of comprehension was 
rejected in the Commons. In September of that year 
a commission was appointed to revise the liturgy and 
canons, and reform ecclesiastical abuses; but all their 
proposals were rejected by Convocation. Three of the 
seven bishops mentioned above refused the oath of al- 
legiance to William and Mary. They headed the par- 
ty known as the Nonjurors, whicli ceased to exist as 
an independent Episcopalian Church in 1780 ; but 
many of them became attached to the Scottish Episco- 
palians” (Chambers, s. v.). See Non jurors. 

During the period just described a school of divines 
was formed who, in seeking to avoid Puritanism on 
the one hand, and Romanism on the other, became 
Latitudinarians. “They became Christian philoso- 
phers rather than divines ; and, except an occasional 
dissertation on the Trinity or a Whitsunday sermon, 
in which the work of the Holy Spirit was carefully 
guarded against fanatical abuses, they scarcely inter- 
fered with matters of Christian doctrine. Still they 
were men of blameless lives, and in a slothful age re- 
markable for pastoral diligence. Amongst the lead- 
ers were Whitchcote, Cudworth, Wilkins, and Worth- 
ington ; some of these were known to be men of emi- 
nent piety, but it was more apparent in their lives 
(and, since their deaths, by their private diaries) than 
in their preaching. They were equally afraid of su- 
perstition on the one hand, and enthusiasm on the 


other. They loved the constitution of the Churchy 
and were well satisfied with the liturgy; but they did 
not think all other forms unlawful. They wished to 
see a spirit of greater moderation. They continued 
on good terms with Nonconformists, and allowed great 
freedoms, not only in philosophical speculations, but 
in religion ; and the boldness of their inquiries into 
the reasonableness, rather than the scriptural warrant 
of the truths of religion, led them to be regarded as 
Socinians. They were all zealous against Popery ; 
and the Papists cried them down, in return, as Athe- 
ists, Deists, or, at best, Socinians, and men of no prin- 
ciples at all. In the society of these men, Tillotson, 
Patrick, Lloyd, and Stillingfleet were trained — the 
greatest divines of the next generation, but still with 
the faults of the school in which they had been edu- 
cated. They received, and long bore, the title of the 
Latitudinarian divines; and, in the sense in which we 
have explained it, the charge was just. They attempt- 
ed a divorce between evangelical doctrine and Chris- 
tian practice. The former they at first neglected, and 
at length lost out of sight; the latter they displayed 
with admirable clearness, and, if any other principles 
than those of the Gospel could possibly have enforced 
it, they would not have so completely failed. But the 
founders of the school made no deep impression in the 
days of Charles II, and their still more gifted pupils 
saw religion in the Church of England almost expiring 
in spite of all their efforts” (Marsden, Churches and 
Sects , i, 286). “ In 1G98 the Church of England gave 

birth to two noble philanthropic schemes — the Society 
for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge, which cir- 
culates Bibles, Prayer-books, and Tracts ; and in 1701 
the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in For- 
eign Parts was chartered.” In 1747 Convocation was 
dissolved. See Convocation. 

“That the Church of England, after fighting for 
its very existence against Popery on the one hand, 
and against Puritanism on the other, should have sub- 
sided into inactivity during the dull reigns of the 
I Georges, is less a matter of surprise than cf regret. 

; The peaceful enjoyment of her temporalities in a dull, 
j irreligious, not to say infidel age, may easily account 
for, though it cannot excuse, her idleness. But that 
in the rise of John Wesley, 1730, she should have fail- 
ed to see a grand opportunity for herself, is a matter 
of both surprise and regret ; she, however, let it pass ; 
nor can she hope that such another will ever again 
present itself. See Methodism ; Wesley. The ut- 
most that can be hoped is that she has seen her error. 

“The next important event in the history of the 
Church is the Act of Union, which came into effect on 
the 1st of January, 1801, and united the churches of 
England and Ireland in all matters of doctrine, wor- 
ship. and discipline. The Reformation had made some 
progress in Ireland under Edward VI. Five Protes- 
tant bishops were appointed in 1500, and the English 
Bible and Liturgy were introduced in 1551 ; but, from 
a variety of causes, the Reformed doctrines have never 
found much acceptance with the native population, 
and, although a Protestant Church was established by 
law, it was and is the Church of the minority. Sec 
Ireland. In 1G35 the English Articles were received, 
and in 1G62 the English Book of Common Prayer was 
adopted by Convocation. Before the political union 
of the countries, the two churches were in full com- 
munion. By an act of the imperial Parliament in 
1833, ten of the Irish bishoprics were suppressed, and 
the funds thus obtained were applied to the augmen- 
tation of small livings, and the building and repair of 
churches” (Chambers, Cyclopaedia, s. v.). It is now 
proposed (18G8) to “ disestablish” the Episcopal Church 
in Ireland, and the proposal will doubtless be carried 
into effect. 

In the progress of the 19th century great changes 
have passed over the Church of England. The for- 
mation of the Church Missionary Society (see Mis- 


ENGLAND, CIIURCII OF 


202 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


sionary Societies), of the Bible Society, etc., and 
especially the influence of Methodism, awakened the 
long dormant spirit of aggressive Christianity. Since 
1800 more than 3000 churches have been erected. 
About 1830 several earnest young men in the Univers- 
ity of Oxford gave signs of profound theological study, 
and of deep interest in Church questions. In reaction, 
perhaps, from the latitudinarianism of the 18th cen- 
tury, their studies lay chiefly in the fathers and medi- 
aeval writers, and in 1833 they began the publication 
of the Oxford tracts, calling for a revival of obsolete 
usages, and bringing up again Romanist or quasi-Ro- 
manist views in theology. A brief history o^ this 
movement is given under Puseyism ; it must suffice 
to say here that many young clergymen, as the result 
of’the movement, went over to Rome ; and those of the 
school who remained gave rise to the modern Ritual- 
ism (q. v.), which tends to import the spirit, doctrines, 
and practices of the Church of Rome into the Church 
of England. In the autumn of 18(57 a conference of 
bishops of the Church of England, and of the churches 
in communion with the English, was held at Lambeth. 
The chief object of this synod was to promote a closer 
union between all branches of the Anglican Church. 
A resolution censuring bishop Colenso, of Natal, for 
his deviation from the doctrine of the Church, was 
adopted by all save three votes. The pastoral let- 
ter, signed by the bishops, warned the people against 
Romanizing tendencies, but made no reference to con- 
troversies within the Church. A Greek translation 
of the pastoral letter was officially transmitted by the 
archbishop of Canterbury to all the patriarchs and 
bishops of the Greek Church. See Pan-Anglican 
Synod. In order to promote tin interest of intelli- 
gent laymen in the affairs of the Church, a “Church 
Congress” was called in 1860, v hich from that time 
has held annual sessions. See Churcii Congress. 
Several attempts were made by the High-Church 
party to introduce monastic institutions. Thus the 
Rev. Mr. Lyne, assuming the name of father Ignatius, 
endeavored to establish an Anglican branch of the 
Benedictine order, but the first monastery of the order 
at Norwich had, after a trial of a few years, to be aban- 
doned. At Bristol a community of the Third Order 
of St. Benedict was organized. The Rev. Mr. Mac- 
konochie, in 1867, established a Society of the Holy 
Cross, of which he was the first master. But thus far 
(1868) all these attempts have met with but little suc- 
cess. See Mona stic ism. The lligh-Chureh party 
exhibited a great desire to bring on a closer union 
with the Eastern churches. A special society, the 
Eastern Church Association (see below, Statistics ), was 
established to promote the cause, and the Convocations 
of Canterbury and York gave their official approval 
of the scheme. See Eastern Churches, Greek 
Church, and Protestant Episcopal Church. Of- 
ficial communications for the same purpose were also 
opened with the Church of Sweden, hut this step was 
strenuously opposed l>v one portion of the High-Church 
party on the ground that the Swedish Church held 
some heretical doctrines. 

IT. Constitution and Government. — 1 . Church 
and State . — The constitution of the Reformed Church 
of England is that “of an authorized and paid estab- 
lishment, which is not allowed to persecute those who 
dissent from it” (Short). The union of Church and 
State was completely secured by the statutes that fol- 
lowed the Reformation up to the Revolution of 1688. 
The English Church constitution remained nearly un- 
changed by the Reformation, only that the crown took 
the place of the pope. The course of subsequent leg- 
islation brought in, however, many important modifi- 
cations of detail. The old statutes, though rarely en- 
forced, were still law, excepting when expressly abro- 
gated. One of the most important of these was the 
Pnrmumre (see above). The statute 2o of Henry 
VIII (1531), ch. xxi, declares entire independence of 


Rome, and calls the king supreme hede of the Church 
of England, according to the recognition of its prelates 
and clergy. This statute abolishes Peter’s pence, and 
provides for the visitation of monasteries by royal 
commission. 

During the reign of Mary Popery was restored, 
but all the statutes to that effect were repealed by 
stat. 1 of Elizabeth (1558-9), which transfers the head- 
ship of the Church from the pope to the English crown, 
and declares the royal supremacy perpetual. Every 
form of spiritual and ecclesiastical jurisdiction and pre- 
rogative is included in the declaration. The crown 
can exercise this authority through such officers as it 
may select, provided they be British subjects appointed 
by letters-patent. The act prescribes the oath of su- 
premacy, to be taken by all civil and spiritual officers. 
See Oath of Supremacy. The Act of Uniformity 
(1559) restored the Common Praj'er, and required the 
clerg} r to conform strictly to it. The statute 13 Eliz. 
e. 11 (1571), incorporated the 39 articles which had 
been agreed upon by the Convocation of 1562 into the 
law of the land. This act, with the laws of suprem- 
acy and uniformity, and the articles, settled the gov- 
ernment, the worship, and the doctrines of the Church. 
The queen, though subject to the Church order and 
doctrines, was invested -with full power to govern the 
Church, and to fill the highest ecclesiastical offices. 
Church and State were fused together, for all citizens 
of the State were made members of the Church ; the 
officers of the Church were officers of the State, and 
the head of the State v T as made head of the Church. 
The Revolution made several changes in the constitu- 
tion of the Church. By stat. 1 William and Man’, 
ch. vi (April, 1689), the coronation oath was modified. 
In it the king swore not merely to govern according 
to the old laws and customs, but also to maintain the 
laws of God and the true confession of the Gospel, and 
of the Protestant Reformed religion as by law estalu 
lished; and to “preserve unto the bishops and clergy 
of this realm, and to the churches committed to their 
charge, all such rights and privileges as by law do or 
shall appertain unto them.” The 8th chapter substi- 
tuted a new form of the oath of allegiance, in which 
the recognition of the king’s ecclesiastical supremacy 
is left out, and in its place stands a promise to obey 
the king truly ; with an anathema of the impious doc- 
trine that princes excommunicated by the pope should 
be deposed and executed, and that a foreign potentate 
can have ecclesiastical authority within the realm. 
The same statute (ch. xviii) removed some penalties 
from Dissenters, and made them eligible to office, pro- 
vided they took the oath of allegiance personally, or 
by proxy, in case of conscientious objection to taking 
the especial oaths of office. During the present cen- 
tury a number of acts have been passed annulling dis- 
abilities of Papists and Dissenters; and it is now the 
case that Dissenters and Romanists have religious 
freedom, are eligible to civil office, and are admitted to 
Parliament. 

2. Government. — (1.) The king is the supreme, head 
of the Church on earth, at least in name and form. 
Formerly the clergy made the following subscription : 
“That the king’s (queen's) majesty, under God, is the 
only supreme governor of this realm, and of all other 
his highness’s dominions and countries, as well in all 
spiritual or ecclesiastical things or causes as tempo- 
ral,” etc. ; but by an act of Parliament of July 5, 
1865 (28th and 29th Viet. cap. 122), persons to be or- 
dained deacons or priests are required (1) to make a 
“ Declaration of Assent” to the Thirty-nine Articles 
of Religion and to the Book of Common Prayer, and 
of the Ordering of Bishops, Priests, and Deacons ; (2) 
to take the Oath of Allegiance and Supremacy (21st 
and 22d Viet. cap. 48), by which they swear to he faith- 
ful and bear true allegiance to the queen, and declare 
that no foreign prince, person, prelate, state, or poten- 
tate hath, or ought to have, any jurisdiction, power, 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 203 ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


superiority, pre-eminence, or authority, ecclesiastical | 
or spiritual, within this realm. “The highest Church 
offices are tilled by the ministry in the name of the 
crown. The Privy Council, in which only temporals j 
vote, is the highest court of appeal.” 

(2.) The management of the Church is in the hands | 
of a hierarchy of archbishops and bishops, subject to 
the authority of the king and Parliament. The United 
Church of England and Ireland is divided into four 
provinces: two English, Canterbury and York; two 
Irish, Armagh and Dublin. These are under four 
mutually independent archbishops. The bishops, as j 
well as the archbishops, are spiritual peers, except- 
ing the bishop last consecrated, and the bishop of 
Sodor and Man, who does not sit in the House of 
Lords unless he happens to be a peer in his own | 
right. Archbishops are chosen by the crown from 
among the bishops. The sovereign also nominates 
the bishops. The Church is governed, “under her , 
majesty, by archbishops, bishops, deans, archdeacons, j 
and the rest that bear office in the same” (Can. vii). 
The archbishops and bishops alone have the power to 
ordain clergymen ; and these ordinations take place, 
according to canon law, at “allotted certain times,” 
and “only on the Sundays immediately following 
jejunia quatuor temporum , commonly called Ember 
weeks.” Candidates for the ministry are usually 
graduates of Cambridge or Oxford, or Trinity Col- 
lege, Dublin, or else of Durham, Lampeter, or St. 
Bees ; but the bishops are not bound to restrict ordi- 
nation to members of any university or college. Ap- 
proved candidates take “the oath of supremacy,” sign 
a declaration that they will conform to the liturgy, 
and subscribe three articles: the first affirming the 
supremacy of the sovereign in the Church ; the second 
asserting that the Book of Common Prayer contains 
nothing contrary to the word of God, and that the or- 
dained person will use the form of the said book ; and 
the third, that they hold all “the Thirty-nine Articles.” 
The candidate is first ordained a deacon, and so con- 
tinues for one year. At the expiration of this term 
he undergoes an examination ; and when this is satis- 
factory", he is admitted by the bishop to the order of 
priest, or presbyter. Several of the presbyters, as 
well as the bishop, lay their hands simultaneously on 
the head of every candidate, while the bishop repeats 
the form prescribed in the ordination service. When 
once ordained a presbyter, he is competent to take any 
duty or to hold any preferment in the Church. 

(3.) The country is divided into parishes, and many 
of these have been of late years subdivided. See 
Parish. The property of the Church of England is 
obtained through many different channels, and is very 
valuable: the total revenues are estimated as being 
not under five millions a year ; and yet so unequal is 
the distribution, that there are, out of 10,500 benefices, 
not less than G800 with incomes under £300 a year ; 
and of these there are 3460 livings whose annual value 
is under £150. The curates have a very inadequate 
compensation, the ordinary pay ranging, in large 
towns, from £70 to £150. 

The total number of benefices in 1867 was 12,888. 
Of late some reforms have been effected by the Par- 
liament. There is a special board of “ ecclesiastical 
commissioners for England to administer the state 
patronage of ecclesiastical benefices. In their twenti- 
eth report, issued in 1868, they state that in the cur- 
rent year they" expect to complete the scheme which, 
in their report of 1861, they proposed to accomplish 
within five years. Every living yvith less income than 
£300 a year yvhicli then existed, and contained, ac- 
cording to the census of 1861, a population of 4000 
persons, will, on the 1st of March, 1869, have had its 
income raised to £300 a year, except those cases in 
priy'atc patronage where the one half of the augmen- 
tation yvhicli the patrons were required to provide from 
non-ecclesiastical sources has not been forthcoming. 


In their report of 1853 the commissioners referred to 
an arrangement yvhicli had been entered into with the 
dean and chapter of York, whereby the capitulat es- 
tates (subject to subsisting leases) had become vested 
in the commissioners, and in lieu thereof the dean and 
chapter yvere to receive an annuity until the commis- 
sioners should restore to them real estates in posses- 
sion calculated to produce an income equal to such 
annuity; and it was estimated that the arrangement 
yvotild at a future date yield a considerable surplus for 
the augmentation of small livings. At the close of 
1852 the chapter of Carlisle effected a similar commu- 
tation. In 1855 the Cathedral Commission advised 
that all the improved revenue derived from the better 
management of capitular property should be appropri- 
ated to the augmentation of capitular incomes, and to 
the improvement of cathedral institutions. In 1856 a 
committee of the House of Commons sat to consider 
the proceedings of the ecclesiastical commissioners, 
and in their third report set out the details of the York 
chapter commutation, and observe, ‘Such agreements 
tend to facilitate enfranchisement, and to provide 
funds for the endoyvment of poor livings, as well as to 
afford a ready means of providing estates in posses- 
sion for the ecclesiastical corporations.’ In the year 
1854 the chapters of Peterborough and Chester; in 
1855, the chapter of Gloucester; in 1856, St. Asaph ; in 
1S57, Worcester; in 1860, Chichester; in 1861. Win- 
chester and Salisbury; in 1862, Bristol, Canterbury, 
and Exeter ; in 1866, Wells, Rochester, and St. Da- 
vid's ; and in 1867, the chapters of Llandaff and Wind- 
sor, effected similar commutations of their capitular 
estates. All these arrangements hay T e been success- 
ively sanctioned by orders in council. Commutations 
have thus been effected yvith no fewer than eighteen 
chapters. Under these commutations the chapters 
gave up their ancient estates in consideration of an- 
nual money payments to be received by them, pend- 
ing their re-endowment yvith real estates in possession ; 
and in 1862 the permanent estate of the chapter of 
York; in 1863, that of Peterborough; in 1865, those 
of Carlisle and Chichester; in 1866, those of Chester, 
Gloucester, and Canterbury ; and in 1867, that of Win- 
chester, yvere reassigned. As a consequence, the com- 
missioners, in the period between 1864 and 1868, con- 
sidered the local claims of the parochial cures upon the 
estates of the chapters of York, Peterborough, Carlisle, 
and Chichester, and, so far as the y r alue of the property 
yvould permit, the requisite grants yvere made to such 
parochial cures.” See beloyy", Patronage and Statistics. 

(4.) The only ecclesiastical assembly of the English 
Church is Convocation (q. y\), which is a convention of 
the clergy to discuss Church affairs in time of Parlia- 
ment. As the Parliament consists of two distinct 
houses, so docs this Convocation ; the one called the 
upper house, yvhere the archbishops and bishops sit sey-- 
erallv by themselves ; the other the loyver house, yvhere 
the rest of the clergy are represented by their deputies. 
The power of the Cony r ocation is limited by a statute 
of Henry VIII. They are not to make any canons 
or ecclesiastical laws without the royal license ; nor, 
yvhen permitted to make any, can they put them in 
execution but under severe restrictions. In the year 
1661 the English Convocation granted a subsidy to 
! king Charles II, which yvas the last tax of this nature 
paid by the English clergy; for, by an arrangement 
made bety\ r een archbishop Sheldon and lord chancellor 
Clarendon in 1664, the Convocation of the clergy 
thenceforyvard gave up the priydlege of taxing them- 
selves to the House of Commons, in consideration of 
being allowed to vote at the election of members of 
that house (Eden). Of late, the Convocations, both of 
Canterbury and York, have asrain been permitted to 
meet, talk, y~ote addresses to the croyvn, etc., but they 
hay T e no real power. See Convocation. 
j (5.) Canons . — In the Convocation yvhich met at the 
I time of the Parliament of 1604, the canons by which 


204 


EXGLAND, CHURCH OF 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


the Church of England is still governed were passed. | 
They are said to have been collected by Bancroft from 
the canons of the ancient Church, and the articles, in- 
junctions, and acts of Convocation during the reigns , 
of Edward and Elizabeth. The}' received the royal 
sanction, but were not carried through the two houses I 
of Parliament, and are not, therefore, laws of the realm, i 
They bind the clergy only, and that by virtue of their 
promise of canonical obedience. Many of them have 
been virtually repealed bv subsequent enactments, es- 
pecially the Toleration Act. Many of those that re- 
main are such that the best and wisest members of the 
Church would gladly see them repealed. See Canons 
of the Church of England. 

(6.) Patronage. — The theory of the Church of Eng- 
land is that whoever originally built a church is en- 
titled to choose its minister in perpetuity — i. e. is the 
patron of the living. What follows on this point is 
from a Church of England writer (Marsden, Churches 
and Sects , i, 332) : “ In a few instances this right is 
still vested in the descendants of the original patron, 
but these must be rare. The right of patronage is 
now a salable commodity, transferred, or sold by auc- 
tion, to the highest bidder, like any other real proper- 
ty, and the patronage of the Church of England is 
consequently dispersed wherever wealth has found its 
way : 1144 benefices are in the gift of the crown ; 1853 
in that of the bishops; 938 in that of cathedral chap- 
ters and other dignitaries : 770 in that of the universi- 
ties and collegiate bodies; 6092 in private persons; 
and 931 (vicarages or perpetual curacies) in the in- 
cumbent of the mother church. The good and evil 
of this system are so nearly balanced that thoughtful 
and wise men are to be met with every day who, as 
they look at the favorable or dark side of the question, 
are disposed to cherish it as the nearest approach that 
is ever likely to be made in practice to a perfect the- 
ory ; or, on the other hand, to reject it as unjust and 
full of danger. Its evils lie upon the surface, and 
they are by no means slight. It has a tendency to 
promote a subservient spirit, inconsistent with the 
courage and simplicity of the Christian minister, to- 
wards those in whose hands patronage is vested, for 
upon them advancement in the Church depends. It 
excludes many valuable men from livings of impor- 
tance, and thrusts many incompetent men into stations 
for which they are but meanly qualified. It fills our 
choicest parishes with men rather well bred than 
deeply learned — men of courtesy and benevolence rath- 
er than a fervent zeal; and, consequently, the par- 
ish church wears to the poor man too frequently some- 
thing of a cold and aristocratic air. He is spoken to 
by his superior in the presence of his superiors, and 
lie retires to the dissenting chapel, not that he prefers 
dissent, but that he meets with sympathy and feels 
himself at home. Patronage is either held by individ- 
uals, or vested in corporations or in trustees ; blit the 
individual may have little sense of religion ; he may 
give away bis church on considerations of friendship, 
or lie may look upon it merely as a provision for a 
younger son. Corporate bodies have less conscience 
than individuals. Previous to the act for reforming 
municipal corporations twenty years ago, most of the 
livings in our ancient towns and boroughs were in the 
gift of our municipal corporations. Their appoint- 
ments, on an average, were certainly not better than 
those of private patrons; religion slumbered in our 
great towns not less profoundly than in our country 
villages. Several trusts have been formed of late years 
for the purchase of advowsons (an ad vowson is the right 
of presentation in perpetuity), and none can deny them 
at least the praise of pure disinterestedness. They have 
expended large sums to obtain in return the right of 
placing zealous ministers of evangelical principles in 
populous places. But all these various methods of 
patronage labor under the same defect — th'o congrega- 
tion whose spiritual interests are to be committed to 


the new pastor, and the parishioners amongst whom, 
as their friend or their example, he is to live and die, 
have no voice whatever in the momentous choice. 
The party most interested looks on with indifference, 
or hope, or silent resignation. The English lay church- 
man, in the most important event that can effect his 
parish during his lifetime, finds everything done for 
him; it is only on trifling matters that he is consult- 
ed. lie may help to build the school, be may dis- 
charge the duties of churchwarden, but with regard to 
the appointment of the minister he has no right to 
speak.” A remarkable illustration of the way in 
which ecclesiastical wealth is monopolized by certain 
families is afforded in the case of Kichard and George 
Pretyman, sons of the bishop of Lincoln, which is 
stated in the Methodist Quarterly , 1853, p. 157. 

III. Doctrines. — (1.) The doctrinal standards of 
the united Church of England and Ireland are, after 
the Scriptures, the Book of Homilies, the Thirty-nine 
Articles, and the Prayer-book, (a) The Homilies (q. v.) 
were composed by Cranmer, Latimer, and Kidlcv, men 
of unexceptionable learning and orthodoxy ; or, ac- 
cording to others, the first book was written principal- 
ly by Cranmer, and the second by Jewel. They were 
appointed to be lead in churches at the beginning of 
the Reformation, when, by reason of the scarcity of 
learned divines, few ministers were found who could 
safely be trusted to preach their own compositions. (5) 

I The first draught of the A rticles was composed by arch- 
bishop Cranmer, assisted by bishop Ridley, in the year 
1551 ; and after being corrected by the other bishops, 
and approved by the Convocation, they were published 
in Latin and English in 1553, and amounted to forty-two 
in number. In 15C2 they were revised and corrected. 
Being then reduced to thirty-nine, they were drawn 
; up in Latin only ; but in 1571 they were subscribed by 
the members of the two houses of Convocation, both in 
Latin and English, and therefore the Latin and Eng- 
lish copies are to he considered as equally authentic. 
See Articles, XXXIX. (c) During the last century 
disputes arose among the clergy respecting the pro- 
priety of subscribing to any human formulary of re- 
ligious sentiments. Parliament, in 1772, was applied 
to for the abolition of the subscription by certain cler- 
| gymen and others, whose petition received the most 
ample discussion, but was rejected by a large major- 
ity. It has been generally held by most, if not all 
; Calvinists, both in and out of the Church, that the doc- 
| trinal parts of the articles are Calvinistic. This opin- 
ion, however, has been warmly controverted. It is no 
doubt. nearer the truth to conclude that the articles are 
framed with comprehensive latitude, and that neither 
Calvinism nor Arminianism was intended to be exclu- 
sively established (Watson, s. v. Church'). See Puller’s 
Moderation o f the Church of England considered , 1679 
(new edit. Loud. 1843, 8vo); and also see Arminian- 
ism, vol. i, ]>. 416, 417 ; Articles Lambeth, vol. i, p. 
441. The articles contain, however, what the Church 
of England holds to be a fair scriptural account of the 
leading doctrines of Christianity, together with a con- 
demnation of what she considers to be the principal 
errors of the Church of Rome and of certain Protestant 
[ sects. As far as they go (and there are many things 
unnoticed by them), they are a legal definition of the 
doctrines of the Church of England and Ireland, 
though the members of that comm union look to the 
Prayer-book as w’ell as to the articles for the genuine 
expression of her faith. The articles are far more 
thoroughly Protestant than the Prayer-book, taken as 
a whole. Although the articles expressly assert that 
the Church of Rome has erred, attempts have repeat- 
edly been made by the Iligh-Church party of the 
Church of England to show' that there is no irreconcil- 
able difference between the Thirty-nine Articles and 
the decrees of the Council of Trent, and that a con- 
struction can be put upon them fully harmonizing 
them. To sho\v this was, in paiticular, the object of 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 205 ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


Dr. Newman’s celebrated tract ( Tracts for the Times , I 
Nc. 90, Oxf. 1839), and more recently of Dr. Pusev’s j 
Eirenicon (Lond. 18G5; N. Y. 1806). See also Christ. 
Remembrancer , Jan. 1866, art. vi. 

(2.) For the preservation of doctrine and discipline 
in the Church of England, many provisions are made 
both by the civil and canon law. Whoever shall 
come to the possession of the crown of England shall 
join in communion with the Church of England, as by 
law established (12 and 13 Will. Ill, ch. ii, § 3). By 
the 1 Will. Ill, ch. vi, an oath shall be administered 
to every king or queen who shall succeed to the impe- 
rial crown of this realm, at their coronation ; to be ad- 
ministered by one of the archbishops or bishops ; to 
be thereunto approved by such king or queen, that 
they will do the utmost in their power to maintain the 
laws of God, the true profession of the Gospel, and 
Protestant Reformed religion established by law ; and 
will preserve unto the bishops and clergy of this realm, 
and to the churches committed to their charge, all 
such rights and privileges as by law do or shall apper- 
tain unto them, or any of them. And by the 5 Anne, 
ch. v, the king, at his coronation, shall take and sub- 
scribe an oath to maintain and preserve inviolably the 
settlement of the Church of England, and the doctrine, 
worship, discipline, and government thereof, as by law 
established (§ 2). 

(3.) In practice there is no definite creed or system 
of theology in the Church of England. Its members 
have always been divided into parties. There has al- 
ways been a Sacramentarian party, approximating in 
doctrine to the teachings of Rome, though it has never 
had great influence since Laud’s time until the recent 
rise of Puseyism (q. v.). And, on the other hand, 
there have never been wanting representatives of the 
Puritan or Evangelical school. The latter party finds 
its stronghold in the Articles, the former in the Litur- 
gy. At present a division prevails into three great 
sections, which are styled High-Church, Low-Church 
(or Evangelical), and Broad-Church. The first party 
holds to apostolical succession, the divine right of epis- 
copacy, and generally adheres to the sacramentarian 
view of the Church’s life. The Pnseyites have been 
drawn chiefly from this party. The Low-Church, or 
Evangelical party, holds, in general, that episcopacy 
is not essential to the being of the Church, though 
•some evangelicals, so called, hold it in as high esteem 
as High-churchmen. The Low-churchmen recognise 
the claims of Presbyterians and dissenters as members 
of Christ’s body. In doctrine they are chiefly Calvin- 
ists. The Broad-Church party, though of recent ori- 
gin, embraces a large number of the most cultivated 
men in the Church, such as Kingsley, Maurice, Stan- 
ley, and, in fact, most of Dr. Arnold’s pupils and sym- 
pathizers. The tendency of this party is towards what 
is called liberal Christianity. 

At the present time (1868) the Church of England 
is agitated by proposals of change on many sides. 
Archdeacon Wilberforce, who went over to Rome 
some years ago, issued an “explanation,” in which he 
inquires how far the popular principle of subscription 
to the English formularies is compatible with the rule 
of Church authority. The system he believes to be 
altogether bad, while it has not even the merit of be- 
ing able to settle the differences which exist among 
individual churchmen. He says: “The difficulty be- 
comes greater when it is considered that the clergy 
are divided into various parties, who are widely op- 
posed to one another in almost every particular. It 
may be allowable, perhaps, to employ the phraseology 
of a recent reviewer, who has distributed them into 
three classes, which he designates as High, Low, and 
Broad. The last may be expected to be comparative- 
ly inattentive to matters of doctrine, regarding the 
Church chiefly as a social institution, designed merely 
to raise the standard of morals and ameliorate the 
manners of men. But the High and Low agree in one 


point, if in nothing else, that to contend for the truth 
is the first duty of Christians. They differ, however, 
respecting almost every point of doctrine. One 'be- 
lieves the Church to be the body of Christ, inhabited 
by his Spirit; the other supposes it to be little more 
than a religious club. One believes in baptismal re- 
generation and in the real presence; the other speaks 
of the sacraments as if they were only acted sermons. 
One affirms Christ to speak by the voice of his priests, 
and that deadly sin requires absolution ; the other af- 
firms that the priest’s words are no more effective than 
those of his parish clerk. Yet both parties, as well as 
the Broad, who lie between them, subscribe to the 
same formularies, which they interpret avowedly in 
contradictory senses, and from which they deduce the 
most opposite results. If all this does not arise from 
the laxity of those who subscribe, but from the inge- 
nuity of those who devised our formularies, they must 
certainly have been the greatest masters of equivocal 
expression whom the world has known.” Subscrip- 
tion to the English formularies, he says, was original- 
ly imposed, and is still rendered by High-church men, 
on the principle that the Church’s judgment should 
guide her members; but the Gorham case showed that 
the Church of England has transferred the decision 
respecting doctrines to the civil power, and that the 
most opposite statements respecting matters of faith 
are taught under her sanction. See Goriiam Case. 
There exists in England a “Liturgical Revision Soci- 
ety,” from whose “Declaration of Principles and Ob- 
jects” we extract the following: “The members of 
this society are moved by such ‘weighty and impor- 
tant considerations’ as arise from ‘ the exigencies’ of 
these present times , to seek farther ‘ changes and alter- 
ations in the Prayer-book ;’ some of which, as the most 
necessary, they now proceed to specify : 1. The Rubric : 
the word priest to be changed. 2. The Ordination 
Service : words abused to the purposes of sacerdotal 
assumption to be altered. 3. The Visitation of the 
Sick: the absolution to be omitted or qualified. 4. 
The Baptismal Offices: words asserting the spiritual 
regeneration of each recipient to be altered. 5. The 
Catechism to be revised. 6. The Burial Service : gen- 
eral language to bo employed in expressing hope for 
the departed. 7. The Athanasian Creed : the damna- 
tory clauses to be omitted. 8. The Apocryphal Les- 
sons to be replaced by Scripture.” The chief aim of 
this society is “to bring the Book of Common Prayer 
into closer conformity with the written word of God 
and the principles of the Reformation, by excluding 
all those expressions which have been assumed to coun- 
tenance Romanizing doctrine or practice.” 

At present (1868) Romanizing tendencies are plainly 
on the increase in the Church of England, and there 
is apparent danger of a total separation of many min- 
isters and members of this Church from the common 
faith of the reformed churches organized in the 16th 
century. The High-Church party has several schools, 
one of which (the Old School), while gladly concurring 
in all efforts for widening the breach between “the 
Church” and the “sects,” yet continues in earnest 
opposition to the errors of Rome. Others, looking 
more at what is common to the Church of Romo and 
the Church of England than at what separates them, 
hope that the Church of Rome, by means of an “Epis- 
copalian” movement, will gradually come over to the 
Anglican ground. This party builds great hopes es- 
pecially upon the movements in Italy of such men as 
cardinal Andrea and Passaglia. There is, finally, an 
extreme party, which makes every other considera- 
tion subordinate to the desire to establish the. union 
with Rome, and which has of late proceeded farther 
in this direction as a party than has ever been done 
before. It is this party which in 1867 sent a letter to 
cardinal Tatrizi asking for some kind of recognition 
from Rome. It also aims at re-establishing monastic 
orders, and is specially conspicuous b}' “ Ritualistic”, 


ENGLAND, CHUUCII OF 206 ENGLAND, CHUUCII OF 


innovations in divine worship, endeavoring to conform 
the service altogether to that of the Roman and East- 
ern churches. Until recently this party was more 
noted for zeal and fervor than for intelligence and ec- 
clesiastical standing, but of late they have gained an 
immense advantage by the open declaration of Dr. Pii- 
sev in their favor. In his Eirenicon (I860, 12mo) he 
explains awav the chief doctrinal differences between 
the Articles and the Catechism of Trent, though, at the 
same time, he treats severely the personal infallibility 
of the pope, and the increasing Mariolatrv of the Ro- 
man Church. Dr. Ptisey also advocates the confes- 
sional and monastic life. The latest development of 
this school is to he found in the series of volumes enti- 
tled The Church and the World (edited by the Rev. 
Or by Shipley). 

On the other hand, there is a large party of Ration- 
alists in the Church of England whose type of opinion 
is to be found in the Essays and Reviews (18G0), and 
whose extreme representative is perhaps bishop Co- 
leuso, of Natal, who has published several volumes of 
so-called criticisms, in which the inspiration and au- 
thenticity of the Old Testament are repudiated. No 
power has been discovered, either in the Church of 
England or in the laws of the land, to deal with the 
Romanizers on the one hand, or the Rationalists on 
the other. 

IV. Statistics. — The Established Church of Eng- 
land is divided into two ecclesiastical provinces, Can- 
terbury and York. Each province has a Convocation 
(q. v.) consisting of two houses, the upper house em- 
bracing the archbishop and all the bishops of the prov- 
inces, and the lower house a number of deans, arch- 


£500 in any single grant, in aid of endowments. In- 
come for 18G7-G8, £32,4G4. 2. The Church Pastoral A id 
Society (1836) aims at providing means for maintaining 
curates and lay agents in largely peopled districts. 
Total receipts in the year 18GG-G7, £47,829 ; in 1867- 
G8, £GJ,745. 3. The Incorporates Society for promot- 

ing the Enlargement, Building , and Repairing of Church- 
es and Chapels in England and Wales (1818) had, in 
18G7-G8, an income of £8422. This society was incor- 
porated by act of Parliament in 1828; until 1851 it 
was supported by a triennial royal letter, which pro- 
duced about £30,000; since then it has been depend- 
ent on annual subscriptions, donations, church collec- 
tions, and legacies. 4. The London Diocesan Church 
Building Society and Metropolis Church Fund (1854) 
had, in 18G7-G8, an income of £45,130. 5. The Church 

of England Scripture Readers' Association provides ky 
readers of the Scriptures to the poor, under the super- 
intendence of the parochial clergy. Its income was, 
in 18G7-G8, £13,440. G. The National Association for 
promoting Freedom of Worship (1858) has for its object 
“ to promote the restoration of the ancient freedom of 
parish churches as the true basis of the parochial sys- 
tem, and the only means of relieving spiritual destitu- 
tion ; and the scriptural system of weekly offerings as 
the most excellent wav; especially enjoined by the 
Church of England, of raising money for Church pur- 
poses, and as a substitute for pew-rents where endow- 
ments are not obtainable.” 7. Society for promoting 
Christian Knowledge . This is the oldest society in the 
country. It supplies Bibles and Prayer-books either 
gratuitously or far below cost price, issues hooks and 
tracts of a “sound Church tone,” suitable for schools, 


deacons, and proctors. The bishops of the Church in lending libraries, workingmen’s clubs and rcading- 
England, in 18G8, were as follows : 1. Province of Can - rooms, hospitals, workhouses, jails, etc. ; also for the 
terbury. — 1. Canterbury (archbishop); 2. London; 3. use of soldiers, sailors, and emigrants. The income 
W inchester; 4. Exeter; 5. St. David’s ; G. Chichester ; (independent of sales) for 18GG-G7 was £28,547; for 
7. Lichfield ; 8. Oxford; 9. St. Asaph's; 10. Hereford ; 18G7-G8, £29,700. 8. National Society for promoting 

II. Llandaff; 32. Lincoln; 13. Bath and Wells; 14. the Education of the Poor in the Principles of the Estab- 
Salisbury ; 15. Norwich ; 1G. Bangor ; 17. Rochester ; lished Church (instituted 1811, incorporated 1817). The 
18. Worcester ; 19. Gloucester ; 20. Ely; 21. Peter bor- operations of this society embrace building school- 
ougli. II. Province of York . — 1. York (archbishop); rooms and teachers’ dwelling-houses, maintaining col- 
2. Durham ; 3. Manchester ; 4. Ripon ; 5. Carlisle ; G. leges for the training of teachers, granting money to- 
Chestcr; 7. Sodor and Man (each diocese is treated of wards paying the salaries of certificated teachers, etc. 
in a special article of the Cyclopcrdia , where full sta- The National Society, during the time of its existence, 
tistics and the name of the present incumbents are has made grants to the amount of more than £400,000, 


given). The 32 dioceses of Ireland, formerly divided 
into four provinces) were reduced to 12 by the Churcb- 
Temporality Act (passed 1833). Armagh has G dio- 
ceses; Armagh, Derry, Down, Kilmore, Meath, Tuam. 
Dublin , G: Dublin, Cashel, Clovne, Killaloe, Limerick, 
Ossorv. See Ireland. Jn connection with the 
Church of England are also a number of colonial and 
missionary bishops. They were, in 18G7, as follows : 
I. Europe. — Gibraltar. II. A sia. — 1. Calcutta (metro- 
politan) ; 2. Bombay; 3. Labuan and Sarawak; 4. 
Madras; 5. Colombo; G. Victoria; 7. Jerusalem. III. 
Africa. — 3. Capetown (metropolitan); 2. Mauritius; 
3. Graliamstown ; 4. St. Helena; 5. Orange River State; 
G. Central Africa ; 7. Natal ; 8. Sierra Leone ; 9. Niger 


and this amount has been supplemented by at least 
£1,200,000 of private contribution for the building cf 
schools, besides originating the expenditure of an im- 
mense annual sum for their sustentation. The total 
number of schools in connection with this society in 
18G5 was 12,421, in which there were 3,1SG,515 schol- 
ars. The total number of scholars in the Sunday- 
schools was 3,818,47G. The number of schoolmasters 
and mistresses trained in the colleges of the society is 
about 140 a year, and about 4750 have been sent out 
during the last twenty-two yea^s. The income of the 
society for 18G4 G5 was £20,2G7. 9. The Prayer-book 

and Homily Society desires to promote the circulation 
of the “ Book of Common Prayer and the Homilies” 


region. IV. Australasia. — 1. Sydney (metropolitan); of the Church, which it has had translated into tliirty- 


2. Adelaide ; 3. Melbourne ; 4. Newcastle ; 5. Perth ; 
G. Brisbane ; 7. Goulburn ; 8. Tasmania ; 9. New Zea- 
land (metropolitan); 10. Christ Church; 31. Nelson; 
12. 'Wellington ; 13. Waiapu ; 14. Dunedin ; 15. Mela- 
nesia; 3G. Honolulu; 37. Grafton and Armidale. V. 


three languages. Its income for lNGG^ was £11G3; 
for 18G7-G8, £1247. 10. The Poor Clergy Relief Society 

lias, since its establishment in 185G, assisted 11 G5 poor 
clergymen, and widows and orphans of clergymen, 
with the sum of £8254. In 18G4-G5 the income was 


America. — 1. Montreal (metropolitan); 2. Toronto ; 3. £20G2, and grants were made to 101 applicants. 11. 
Newfoundland; 4. Fred crick ton ; 5. Nova Scotia; G. The Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign 
Huron; 7. Colombia; 8. Quebec; 9. Ontario ; 10. Ru- | Parts (incorporated in 3701) is the oldest of all the 
port’s Rand; 11. Now AVeslminstcr ; 12. Jamaica; 13. English, and one of the oldest of all the Protestant 
Barhadoes ; 14. Antigua; 35. Nassau; 10. Guiana. missionary societies of the world. The society aims 
The following is a list of the principal Church Soci- as much as possible at establishing complete churches, 
etics, with a brief account of their work : 1. Society for with bishops at their head, and which shall ultimately 
promoting the Employment of additional Curates in pop- become altogether independent of the society, wher- 
vlons Places (established in 3837). This society, be- ever England has any territorial possessions. Its in- 
sides making annual grants towards the fnaintenance come in 18GG-G7 was £91,386; in 18G7-68, £114, 54G. 
of additional clergymen, grants sums, not exceeding 12. The Church Missionary Society for Africa and the 


207 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


ENGLAND, CHURCH OF 


East was founded in 1799. Its work is chiefly among 
the natives of the countries in which its missions are 
established. Its income in 18GG-67 was £150,357, and 
in 1867-68, £157,288. 13. The Colonial and Continen- 

tal Church Society. Its leading object is to send cler- 
gymen, catechists, and teachers of the Church of Eng- 
land to settlers in the English colonies, and to British 
subjects in other parts of the world. The income for 
18GG-G7 was £31,079; for 18G7-G8, £34,120. 14. The 

English Church Union was formed in 1859 for the pur- 
pose of “watching over the interests of the Church of 
England ; of resisting, by a combination of its mem- 
bers, the attempts of dissenters and others to alienate 
the rights and injure the position of the Church ; and 
also for the purpose of developing its internal ener- 
gies.” It is intended to be the central organ of the 
High-Church party. The union is managed by a 
council of twenty-four elected and five ex-officio mem- 
bers, thirteen of these being clergymen and the re- 
maining sixteen laymen. 15. The Association for the 
promotion of the Unity of Christendom was formed in 
1857 for the purpose of uniting in a bond of interces- 
sory prayer members both of the clergy and the laity 
of the Roman Catholic, Greek, and Anglican commu- 
nions. The members promise to use daily a brief 
prayer for the peace and unit}' of the Church. In 
18G5 the association numbered 8827 members, divided j 
as follows: Roman Catholics, 1271 ; Orientals, includ- 
ing Servians and Armenians, 3G0; uncertain or mis- 
cellaneous, 75; Anglicans, 7121. 1G. The Eastern 

Church Association was founded in 18G4. Its objects 
wore stated to be to inform the English public as to 
the state and position of the Eastern Christians ; to j 
make known the principles and doctrines of the Angli- 
can Church to the Christians of the East; to take ad- 
vantage of all opportunities which the providence of i 
God shall afford for intercommunion with the ortho- 
dox Church, and also for friendly intercourse with the I 
other ancient churches of the East ; to assist, as far as 
possible, the bishops of the orthodox Church in their 
efforts to promote the spiritual welfare and the educa- 
tion of their flocks. It counts among its members 
English, Scotch, American, colonial, and Greek bish- 
ops. 17. The Anglo-Continental Society has for its ob- 
ject to make the principles of the English Church 
known in the different countries of Europe and 
throughout the world, and to aid in the reformation 
of national churches and other religious communities. 
18. The English Church Association was established in 
18G5 as the central organization of Low-Churchmen. 
Its chief object is to counteract and prevent the spread- 
ing of High-Church and Romanizing tendencies in the 
Church. 19. The South American Mission Society , es- 
tablished in 1852. Its object is to send out missiona- 
ries to the native tribes of South America, to English- 
men in spiritual destitution there, and to take advan- 
tage of any opening for evangelization. Its means 
was in 18G6-G7, £7431, and in 1867-G8, £9902. 20. 

Irish Church Missions to Roman Catholics. According 
to the nineteenth annual report, published in May, 
1808, the income was £25,577 ; the year before it was 
£22,507. 21. The London Society for promoting Chris- 

tianity among the Jews, established in 1809. The offi- 
cers must he members of the United Church of Eng- 
land and Ireland, or, if foreigners, of a Protestant 
Church. Its income was in 18GG-G7, £33,327, and in 
18G7-G8, £3G,075. 

At the last official census taken in Great Britain in 
1801, in England and Scotland no inquiries were made 
as to the creed of the inhabitants. For Ireland, the 
population connected with the Established Church was, 
in 18G1, according to the official census, 678, GG1. As 
in England the Church herself makes no attempt to 
find out her statistics, nothing hut estimates can be 
given on this point. As regards places of worship, 1 
number of sittings, and estimates of Church attend- 
ants, the statistics of the Established Church com- , 


pared as follows with the aggregate statistics of all 
other religious bodies : 


Religious Bodies. 

P luces 
of 

Worship. 

JN umber 
of 

Sittings. 

Estimate 
of Church 
Attendants. 

(Jlu inch of England 

All other religious denom- 
inations 

14,077 

20, BOO 

5,317,915 

4,S94,G4S 

3,7 1 3,4*4 

3,4S7,5f:S 


According to this tabic, of all the church sittings, 
51.9 per cent, belonged to the Church of England, 
and 48.1 per cent, to the other religions denomina- 
tions; and of the Church attendants, likewise about 
52 per cent, to the Church of England, and 48 to others. 
Other statistics, as, for instance, the annual marriage 
statistics, give to the population connected with the 
Church of England from G5 to 70 per cent, of the pop- 
ulation. The two statements may be reconciled by 
taking 52 per cent, as that portion of the total popula- 
tion which is practically and actively connected with 
the Church, while it is, on the other hand, probable 
that fully G5 per cent, sustain a nominal connection 
with the Church. Since the beginning of the present 
century, the progress of the Church of England in point 
of places of worship and Church attendants has been 
less rapid than that of the other religious denomina- 
tions taken together. For detailed comparative statis- 
tics, see Great Britain. 

Besides the national universities of Oxford and 
Cambridge, Durham University and King's College, 
London, the Church of England has the following the- 
ological training institutions: St. Bees (Cumberland), 
with 80 students, and St. Aidan’s (Birkenhead), with 
03 students; also a training department at Birming- 
ham College, the London College of Divinity at St. 
John’s Wood, and Lampeter College, Wales. 

The following table gives the number of parishes 
and the number of clergy in each of the English dio- 
ceses; also the total population of the territory em- 
braced in each diocese. 


Dioceses. 

Population 

of 

Dioceses 
in RS61. 

Number 

of 

Clergy. 

Number 

of 

Parishes. 

1 Avenir* 

Population 
to each 
j Clergyman. 

! Canterbury 

474,003 

530~ 

357~ 

SS7 

York 

930,210 

744 

5S4 

1250 

i London 

2,570,070 

710 

| 3*24 

3500 

Durham 

858,095 

351 

245 

2445 

; Winchester 

1,207,794 

1012 

500 

1252 

I St. Asaph 

240,337 

250 

1S5 

085 

Bangor 

195,300 

105 

134 

10l,0 

Bath and Wells 

422,527 

GG0 

4S1 

040 

Carlisle 

200,501 

327 

272 

815 

Chester 

1,24S,410 

50S 

370 

20SS 

Chichester 

303,735 

502 

311 

G14 

St. David’s 

43:\0S9 

527 

411 

821 

Kiy 

4So,71G 

720 

520 

007 

Exeter 

053,703 

054 

004 

080 

Gloucester & Bristol 

5Gs,574 

G4S 

450 

S77 

Hereford 

232,401 

4GG 

35S 

40S 

Lichfield 

1,221,404 

870 

025 

13S0 

Lincoln 

70G,02G 

1020 

soi 

GO 5 

Llandaff 

421,330 

310 

230 

1320 


1,070,320 

001 

3S5 

2704 

Norwich 

007.704 

1101 

OOS 

575 

Oxford 

5 15, OSS 

8 r >0 

009 

002 

Peterborough 

4S0,077 

715 

530 

GS1 

Ifipon 

1,103,304 

030 

444 

1751 

Rochester 

000,91 1 

8' '4 

I 514 

75S 

Salisbury ......... 

377,337 

G71 

471 

502 

Sodor and Man 

52.40 ) 

45 

31 

1100 

Worcester 

857,775 

001 1 

! 442 

1204 

Total for ling land \ 
and Wales. . . . J 

20,200,071 

17,CG7 

12,539 | 

1200 


For farther accounts of the statistics of the Church 
of England, see the annual Clergy List (which also 
contains a complete list of all the benefices, with names 
of patrons, etc.); Rivington’s Ecclesiastical Year-book 
for 18G5 ; Christian Year Jonh (Lond. 18G7 and 18G8); 
Schem, Amer. Eccles. Year-book for 1859 (N. Y. I860), 
and Amer. Eccles. Almanac for i8G8 (N. Y. 1868). 

V. Literature. — The early historians are Gildas (Gth 
century), De Britannice excidio , etc. (transl. by Giles, 
Lond. 1841, 8vo) ; Bede, Hist. Eccles. Anglorum {Opera, 
ed. Giles, 12 vols. 1843, vol. ii) ; Giraldus Cambrcnsis, 


ENGLES 


208 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


Vita Kpiscoporum , in Wharton, Anglia Sacra, vol. ii ; ’ 
Eadmer, Vihe, Wharton, Anglia Sacra, vol. ii, and in 
Migne, Patrol. Lat. vol. clix ; Ingulphus, and William 
of Malmesbury, in Fnlmaii, Per. A ngHcar. Script. Vet. 
(Oxon, 1084); and in Gale, Historicc Britannicec , cte. 
(Oxon, 161)1, 2 vols. fob). The History of ingulph, the 
History of Gaiinur, the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle , and the 
Chronicle of Florence of Worcester, are reprinted in The 
Church Historians of England (Loud. 1853). 

Historians : Stillingfleet, Origines Hritannicee (1710; 
new edit. Oxford, 1842, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Esher, Brit. Ec- 
clesiannu Antiquitates (1G38, 4to ; Works, 1G vols. Dub- 
lin, 1847, vols. v, vi); Smith, Religion of A ncient Brit- 
ain (bond. 1846, 12mo) ; Churton,Ed>% English Church 
(London, 1858, 3d edit. ISmo); Sonnies, Anglo-Saxon 
Church (bond. 1828, 2d edit. 8vo) ; lb. Doctrines of An- 
glo-Saxon Church (Bampton Lecture, 1830) ; lb. Lat- 
in Church during Anglo-Saxon Times (Loud. 1848, Svo) ; 
Tb. Elizabethan Religious History (London, 1839, 8vo) ; 
11>. Reformation (London, 182G-8, 4 vols. 8vo); Fuller, 
Church History of Great Britain (1G55, fob ; new edit, 
bond. 1837, 3 vols. Svo ; Warner, Ecclesiastical History 
of England (17G5, 2 vols. fob); Inett, Origines Angli- 
caner, Histovv from Gtli century to death of King John, 
1216 (London, 1704-30, 2 vols. fol. ; new edit. Oxford, 
1855,3 vols. Svo) ; Canvitheu, History of the Church of 
England (Oxford, 1849, 2d edit. 2 vois. 12mo); Grant, 
Summary of the History of the English Church and of 
th u Sects, etc. (bond. 1 811-1 82G, 4 vols. Svo) ; Collier, 
Ecclesiasiiccd History of Great Britain (1708, fol. ; new 
ed. by Barham, bond. 3840, 9 vols. Svo); Brown, Com- 
pendious History of the British Churches (Edinb. 1820 ; 
2d edit. 1823, 2 vols. Svo) ; Baxter, Church History of 
England (2d ed. bond. 1849, Svo) ; Short, Sketch of the 
History of the Church of England to 1G88 (bond. 1840, 
3d edit. Svo) ; Anderson, History of the Church of Eng- 
land in the Colonies (bond. 1856, 2d edit. 3 vols. Svo); 
Annual American Cyclopaedia, 18G3, and all the follow- 
ing volumes, art. Anglican Church. 

On the histoiy of the English Reformation, see 
Reformation. For general statistics of Christianity 
in the British Islands, see Great Britain; Ire- 
land ; Scotland. 

Engles, Joseph Patterson, D.D., was born in 
Philadelphia Jan. 3, 1793. He was educated at the 
University of Pennsylvania, and graduated in July, 
1811. In 1813 he was appointed co-master of the 
grammar-school in the same institution with Rev. Dr. 
S. B. How. In 1817, Rev. Dr. S. B. Wylie and Mr. 
Engles founded an academy, under the name of the 
Classical Institute, which Mr. Engles continued until 
February, 1845, when he was elected publishing agent 
of the Presbyterian Board of Publication. He con- 
tinued in this position until his death. Mr. Engles 
was a member and elder of the Scots Presbyterian 
Church, Philadelphia, having joined that church at 
the age of twenty, and very soon after having been 
chosen an cider of the same. Besides writing several 
smaller volumes for children and youth, he edited an 
edition of the Greek Testament, with various readings, 
lie died suddenly on the night of April 14, 1861, of a 
disease of the heart from which he had been suffering 
for about a year. 

Engles, William M., D.D., a Presbyterian min- 
ister. was born in Philadelphia Oct. 12, 1797, and was 
educated at the University of Pennsylvania, where he 
graduated A.B, in 1815. After studying theology un- 
der the Rev. Dr. S. B. Wylie (q. v.), he was licensed 
to preach in 1818, and in 1820 became pastor of the 
Seventh Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, which 
office lie filled faithfully until his health failed in 1834, 
when he became editor of The Presbyterian. He edit- 
ed that journal for over thirty years. In 1838 the 
Presbyterian Board of Publication made him their ed- 
itor of books and tracts, and he continued fn that work 
with great success till 18G3. In one of their publica- 


tions, it is stated that “the Board of Publication is 
probably more largely indebted to Dr. Engles than to 
any other one man for its existence and its usefulness, 
especially during the first twenty years of its history.” 
Besides his constant editorial work, he wrote a num- 
ber of small books on practical religion, many of which 
had a wide circulation. Of one of them, the Soldier's 
Pocket-book, in English and German, 300,000 were cir- 
culated among onr soldiers during the civil war. He 
died in Philadelphia Oct. 12, 18G7 . — American Annual 
Cyclopaedia, vii, 29G. 

English Versions of the Birle. Passing 
over the lives of the individual translators, the long 
struggle with the indifference or opposition of men in 
power, the religious condition of the people as calling 
for, or affected by, the appearance of the translation, 
the time, and place, and form of the successive edi- 
tions by which the demand, when once created, was 
supplied — all of which is given under more appropri- 
ate titles — we shall here aim to give an account of 
the several versions as they appeared; to ascertain 
the qualifi cations of the translators for the w'ork w hich 
they undertook, and the principles on which they act- 
ed ; to form an estimate of the final result of their la- 
bors in the received version, and, as consequent oil 
this, of the necessity or desirableness of a new r or re- 
vised translation ; and, finally, to give such a survey 
of the literature of the subject as may help the reader 
to obtain a fuller knowledge for himself. In doing 
this w r e shall substantially adopt so much of Prof. 
Plumtre’s art. in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible, s. v. Ver- 
sions, as relates to the subject. The present article 
has been carefully revised by the Rev. T. J. Conant, 
D.D., of Brooklyn. 

b Early Translations. — It was asserted by Sir 
Thomas More, in his anxiety to establish a point 
against Tyndal, that he had seen English translations 
of the Bible which had been made before Wvcliffe, 
and that these were approved by the bishops, ami were 
allowed by them to be read by laymen, and even by 
devout women ( Dialogues , ch. viii-xiv, col. 82). There 
seem good grounds, however, for doubting the accu- 
racy of this statement. No such translations— ver- 
sions, i. e. of the entire Scriptures— are now extant. 
No traces of them appear in any contemporary writer. 
Wycliffe’s great complaint is that there is no transla- 
tion (Forshall and Madden, Wycliffe's Bible, Pref. p. 
xxi, Proh p. 59). The Constitutions of archbishop 
Arundel (A.D. 1408) mention two only, and these arc 
Wycliffe’s own, and the one based on his and com- 
pleted after his death. More’s statement must there- 
fore be regarded either as a rhetorical exaggeration 
of the fact that parts of the Bible had been previously 
translated, or as arising out of a mistake as to the date 
of MSS. of the Wvcliffe version. The history of the 
English Bible will therefore begin, as it has begun 
hitherto, with the work of the first great reformer. 
One glance, however, we may give, in passing, to the 
earlier history of the English Church, and connect 
some of its most honored names with the great work 
of making the truths of Scripture, or parts of the books 
themselves, if not the Bible as a whole, accessible to 
the people. We may think of Caedmon as embodying 
the whole history of the Bible in the alliterative metre 
of Anglo-Saxon poetry (Bede, Hist. Eccl. iv, 24); of 
Aldhelm, bishop of Sherborne, in the 7th century, as 
rendering the Psalter ; of Bede, as translating in the 
last hours of his life the Gospel of John ( Epist . Cuth - 
berti ); of Alfred, setting forth in his mother tongue, as 
the great ground- work of his legislation, the four chap- 
ters of Exodus (xx-xxiii) that contained the first code 
of the law's of Israel (Pauli’s Lfe of Alfred, chap. v). 
The wishes of the great king extended further. He 
desired that “all the free-born youth of his kingdom 
should be able to read the English Scriptures” [“Ln- 
glisc gewritt,” wdiich, however, may merely denote 
English literature in general] (Ibid.), Portions of the 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


209 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


Bible, some of the Psalms, and extracts from other 
books, were translated by him for his own use and 
that of his children. The traditions of a later date, 
seeing in him the representative of all that was good 
in the old Saxon time, made him the translator of the 
whole Bible (Ibid., supp. to chap. v). 

The work of translating was, however, carried on 
by others. One Anglo-Saxon version of the four gos- 
pels, interlinear with the Latin of the Vulgate, known 
as the Durham book, is found in the Cottonian ]\1SS. 
of the British Museum, and is referred to the 9th or 
10th century. Another, known as the Rush worth 
Gloss, and belonging to the same period, is in the Bod- 
leian Library at Oxford. Another, of a somewhat later 
date, is in the same collection, and in the library of 
Corpus -Christi College, Cambridge. The name of 
Aldhehn, bishop of Sherborne, is. connected with a 
version of the Psalms ; that of Aelfric with an epitome 
of Scripture history, including a translation of many 
parts of the historical books of the Bible (Lewis, / list, 
of Transl. ch. i ; Torshall and Madden, Preface; Bng- 
ster’s English Ilexapla, Pref.). The influence of Nor- 
man ecclesiastics, in the reigns that preceded and fol- 
lowed the Conquest, was probably adverse to the con- 
tinuance of this work. They were too far removed 
from sympathy with the snbjugated race to care to 
educate them in their own tongue. The spoken dia- 
lects of the English of that period would naturally 
seem to them too rude and uncouth to be the channel 
of divine truth. Pictures, mysteries, miracle plays, 
rather than books, were the'instruments of education 
for all but the few who, in monasteries under Norman 
or Italian superintendence, devoted themselves to the 
study of theology or law. In the remoter parts of 
England, however, where their influence was less felt, 
or the national feeling was stronger, there were those 
who carried on the succession, and three versions of 
the Gospels, in the University Library at Cambridge, 
in the Bodleian, and in the British Museum, belonging 
to the 11th or 12th century, remain to attest their la- 
bors. The metrical paraphrase of the Gospel history 
known as the Ormulum, in alliterative English verse, 
ascribed to the latter half of the 12th century, is the 
next conspicuous monument, and may be looked upon 
as indicating a desire to place the facts of the Bible 
within reach of others than the clergy. The 13th 
century, a time in England, as throughout Europe, of 
religious revival, witnessed renewed attempts. A 
prose translation of the Bible into Norman- French, 
circ. A.D. 12G0, indicates a demand for devotional 
reading within the circle of the court, or of the wealth- 
ier merchants, or of convents for women of high rank. 
Farther signs of the same desire are found in three 
English versions of the Psalms — one towards the close 
of the 13th century; another by Sehorham, circ. A.D. 
1320 ; another, with other canticles from the O. T. and 
N.T., by Richard Rolle, of llampolc, circ. 1349; the 
last being accompanied by a devotional exposition — 
and in one of the Gospels of Mark and Luke, and of 
all Paul’s epistles (the list includes the apocryphal 
epistle to the Laodiceans), in the library of Corpus- 
Christi College, Cambridge. The fact stated by arch- 
bishop Arundel in his funeral sermon on Anne of Bo- 
hemia, wife of Richard II, that she habitually read the 
Gospels in the vulgar tongue, with divers expositions, 
was probably true of many others of high rank. It is 
interesting to note these facts, not as detracting from 
the glory of the great reformer of the 14th century, 
hut as showing that for himself also there had been a 
preparation; that what he supplied met a demand 
which had for many years been gathering strength. 
It is almost needless to add that, these versions started 
from nothing better than the copies of the Vulgate, 
more or less accurate, which each translator had be- 
fore him (Lewis, ch. i ; Forsliall and Madden, Preface). 

H. AVycliffe (born 1324, died 1384). — 1. It is sin- 
gular, and not without significance, that the first 
III.— 0 


translation from the Bible connected with the name 
of Wyclifl'e should have been that of part of the Apoc- 
alypse. The Last Age of the Church (A.D. 135G) trans- 
lates and expounds the vision in which the reformer 
read the signs of his own times, the sins and the de- 
struction of “Antichrist and his meynee” (=niulti- 
tude). Shortly after this he completed a version of 
the Gospels, accompanied by a commentary, “so that 
pore Cristen men may some dele know the text of the 
Gospel, with the corny n sentence of the olde holie doc- 
tores” (Preface). AVycliffe, however, though the chief, 
was not the onty laborer in the cause. The circle of 
English readers was becoming wider, and they were 
not content to have the book which they honored 
above all others in a tongue not their own. Another 
translation and commentary appear to have been made 
about the same time, in ignorance of AVycliffe ’s work, 
and for the “manie lewid men that ghullie would kon 
the Gospelle, if it were draghen into the Englisch 
tung.” The fact that many MSS. of this period are 
extant, containing in English a Monotessaron, or Har- 
mony of the Gospels, accompanied by portions of the 
Epistles, or portions of the 0. T., or an epitome of 
Scripture history, or the substance of Paul’s epistles, 
or the Catholic Epistles at full length, with indications 
more or less distinct of AVycliffe’s influence, shows 
how widespread -was the feeling that the time had 
come for an English Bible (Forsliall and Madden, Pref. 
p. xiii-xvii). These preliminary labors were followed 
up by a complete translation of the N. T. by AVycliffe 
himself. The O. T. was undertaken by his coadjutor, 
Nicholas de Hereford, but was interrupted probably 
by a citation to appear before archbishop Arundel in 
1382, and ends abruptly (following so far the order of 
the Vulgate) in the middle of Baruch. Many of the 
AISS. of this version now extant present a different 
recension of the text, and it is probable that the work 
of AVycliffe and Hereford was revised by Richard 
Purvey, circ. A.D. 1388. To him also is ascribed the 
interesting Prologue, in which the translator gives an 
account both of his purpose and his method (Forsliall 
and Madden, Pref. j». xxv). 

2. The former was, as that of AVycliffe had been, to 
give an English Bible to the English people. lie ap- 
peals to the authority of Bede, of Alfred, and of Gros- 
tete, to the examples of “ Frenshe, and Beemers (Bo- 
hemians), and Britons.” He answers the hypocritical 
objections that men were not holy enough for such a 
work; that it was wrong for “idiots” to do what the 
great doctors of the Church had left undone. He 
hopes “ to make the sentence as trewe and open ill 
Englislie as it is in Latine, or more trewe and open.” 

It need hardly be said, as regards the method of the 
translator, that the version was based upon the ATil- 
gate (comp. Gen. iii, 15: “ She shall trede thy head”). 
If, in the previous century, scholars like Grostete and 
Roger Bacon, seeking knowledge in other lands, and 
from men of other races, had acquired, as they seem 
to have done, some knowledge both of Greek and He- 
brew, the succession had, at all events, not been per- 
petuated. The war to be waged at a later period with 
a different issue between scholastic philosophy and 
“humanity” ended, in the first struggle, in the tri T 
umph of the former, and there was probably no one at 
Oxford among AVyclifte’s contemporaries who could 
have helped him or Purvey in a translation from the 
original. It is something to find at such a time the 
complaint that “ learned doctoris taken littel heede to 
the lettre,” the recognition that the ATilgate was not 
all sufficient, that “the texte of oure bokis” (he is 
speaking of the Psalter, aqd the difficulty of under- 
standing it) “ discordeth much from the Ebreu” (which 
knowledge is, however, at second hand, “hi witnesse 
of Jerom, of Lire, and other expositouris”). The dif- 
ficulty which was thus felt was increased by the state 
of the ATilgate text. The translator complains that 
what the Church had in view was not Jerome’s ver- 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


210 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


sion, but a later and corrupt text ; that “ the commie 
Latyne Bibles han more necde to be corrected as nianie 
as 1 have seen in my life, than hath the Englishe Bi- 
ble late translated.” To remedy this he had recourse 
to collation. Many MSS. were compared, and out of 
this compaiison the true reading ascertained as far as 
possible. The next step was to consult the Glossa Or- 
( linaria , the commentaries of Nicholas do Lyra, and 
others, as to the meaning of any difficult passages. 
After this (we recognise here, perhaps, a departure 
from the right order) grammars were consulted. Then 
came the actual work of translating, which he aimed 
at making idiomatic rather than literal. As he went 
on, he submitted his work to the judgment of others, 
and accepted their suggestions. It is interesting to 
trace these early strivings after the true excellence of 
a translator; yet more interesting to take note of the 
spirit, never surpassed, seldom equalled, in later trans- 
lators, in which the work was done. Nowhere do we 
find the conditions of the work, intellectual and moral, 
more solemnly asserted. “A translator hath grete 
nede to studie well the sentence, both before and after,” 
so that no equivocal words maj^ mislead his readers or 
himself, and then also “he hath nede to lyve a clene 
life, and be ful devout in preiers, and have not his wit 
occupied about worldli tilings, that the Holie Spiryt, 
author of all wisedom, and cunnynge, and truth, dressc 
(= train) him in his work, and suffer him not for to 
err” (Forsball and Madden, Prol. p. GO). 

3. The extent of the circulation gained by this ver- 
sion may be estimated from the fact that, in spite of 
all the chances of time, and all,the systematic efforts 
for its destruction made bv archbishop Arundel and 
others, not less than 150 copies are known to be ex- 
tant, some of them obviously made for persons of 
■wealth and rank, others apparently for humbler read- 
ers. It is significant as bearing, either on the date 
of the two works or on the position of the writers, that 
while the quotations from Scripture in Langton’s Vi- 
sion of Piers Plowman are uniformly given in Latin, 
those in the Persone's Tale of Chaucer are given in 
English, which for the most part agrees substantially 
with Wyelifte’s translation. 

4. The following characteristics ma}’- be noticed as 
distinguishing this version : (1) The general homeli- 
ness of its style. The language of the court or of 
scholars is as far as possible avoided, and that of the 
people followed. In this respect the principle lias 
been acted on by later translators. The style of Wyc- 
lifte is to that of Chaucer as Tyndale’s is to Surre} r ’s, 
or that of the A. V. to Ben Jonson’s. (2) The substi- 
tution, in many cases, of English equivalents for qua- 
si-technical words. Thus we find “ fy” or “fogh” in- 
stead of “Baca” (Matt, v, 22); “they were washed ” 
in Matt, iii, G; “richesse” for “ mammon” (Luke xvi, 
9,11, 13); “bishop” for “high-priest” (passim). (3) 
The extreme literalness with which, in some instances, 
even at the cost of being unintelligible, the Vulgate 
text is followed, as in 2 Cor. i, 17-19. 

III. Tyndale. — The work of 'Wvcliffe stands by 
itself. Whatever power it exercised in preparing the 
way for the Information of the lGth century, it had 
no perceptible influence on later translations. By the 
reign of Henry VIII its English was already obsoles- 
cent, and the revival of classical scholarship led men 
to feel dissatisfied with a version which had avowedly 
been made at second-hand, not from the original. 
With Tyndale, on the other hand, we enter on a con- 
tinuous succession. He is the patriarch, in no remote 
ancestry, of the Authorized Version. With a consist- 
ent, unswerving purpose, he devoted his whole life to 
this one work, and, through dangers and difficulties, 
amid enemies and treacherous friends, in exile and 
loneliness, accomplished it. More than Cranmer or 
Bidlev, he is the true hero f the English Beforma- 
tion. While they were slowly moving onwards, halt- 
ing between two opinions, watching how the court- 


winds blew, or, at the best, making the most of oppor- 
tunities, he set himself to the task without which, he 
felt sure, reform would be impossible, which, once ac- 
complished, would render it inevitable. “ Ere many 
years,” he said, at the age of thirty-six (A.D. 1520), 
he would cause “a boy that driveth the plough” to 
know' more of Scripture than the great body of the 
clergy then knew (Foxe, in Anderson’s Annals of Eng- 
lish Bible , i, 36). We are able to form a fairly accu- 
rate estimate of his fitness for the work to which lie 
thus gave himself. The change which had come over 
the universities of Continental Europe since the time 
of Wyeliffe had affected those of England. Greek had 
been taught in Baris in 1458. The first Greek Gram- 
mar, that of Constantine Lascaris, had been printed in 
1176. It was followed in 1480 by Craston’s Lexicon. 
The more enterprising scholars of Oxford visited for- 
eign universities for the sake of the new learning. 
Groeyn (d. 1519), Linacrc (d. 1521), Colet (d. 1519), 
had, in this way, from the Greeks whom the fall of 
Constantinople had scattered over Europe, or from their 
Italian pupils, learned enough to enter, in their turn, 
upon the work of teaching. When Erasmus visited 
Oxford in 1497, he found in these masters a scholar- 
ship which even he could admire. Tyndale, who went 
to Oxford cir. 1500, must have been within the range 
of their teaching. His two great opponents. Sir Thom- 
as More and bishop Tonstal, are known to have been 
among their pupils. It is significant enough that, af- 
ter some years of study, Tyndale left Oxford and went 
to Cambridge. Such changes were, it is true, com- 
mon enough. The fame of any great teacher would 
draw around him men from other universities, from 
many lands. In this instance, the reason of Tyndale’s 
choice is probably not far to seek (Walter, Blog. Notice 
to Tyndale’s Doctrinal Treatises). Erasmus was in 
Cambridge from 1509 to 1514. All that we know of* 
Tyndale’s character and life, the fact especially that 
he had made translations of portions of the N.T. as 
early as 1502 (Oftbr, Lfe cf Tyndale , p. 9), leads to the 
conclusion that he resolved to make the most of the 
presence of one who was emphatically the scholar and 
philologist of Europe. It must be remembered, too, 
that the great scheme of cardinal Ximenes was just 
then beginning to interest the minds of all scholars. 
The publication of the Complutensian Bible, it is true, 
did not take place till 1520; but the collection of MSS. 
and other preparations for it began as early as 1504. 
In the mean time Erasmus himself, in 151 0, brought 
out the first published edition of the Greek Testament, 
and it was thus made accessible to all scholars. Of 
the use made by Tyndale of these opportunities we 
have evidence in his coming up to London (1522), in 
the vain hope of persuading Tonstal (known as a 
Greek scholar, an enlightened Humanist) to sanction 
his scheme of rendering the N. T. into English, and 
bringing a translation of one of the orations of Isocra- 
tes as a proof of his capacity for the work. The at- 
tempt was not successful. “At the last I understood 
not only that there was no room in my lord of Lon- 
don’s palace to translate the N. T., but also that there 
was no place to do it in all England” (Prof, to Five 
Books of Moses). 

It is not so easy to say how far at this time any 
knowledge of Hebrew was attainable at the English 
universities, or how far Tvndale had used any means 
of access that were open to him. It is probable that 
it may have been known, in some measure, to a few 
bolder than their fellows, at a time far earlier than the 
introduction of Greek. The large body of Jews set- 
tled in the cities of England must have possessed a 
knowledge, more or less extensive, of tlieir Hebrew 
books. On tlieir banishment, to the number of 1G,000, 
hv Edward I, these books fell into the hands of the 
monks, superstitiouslv reverenced or feared by most, 
yet drawing some to examination, and then to study. 
Grostete, it is said, knew Hebrew as well as Greek. 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


211 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


Roger Bacon knew enough to pass judgment on the 
Vulgate as incorrect and misleading. Then, however, 
came a period in which linguistic studies were thrown 
into the background, and Hebrew became an unknown 
speech even to the best-read scholars. The first signs 
of a revival meet 11 s towards the close of the 15th cen- 
tury. The remarkable fact that a Hebrew Psalter 
was printed at Soncino in 1177 (forty years before 
Erasmus’s Greek Testament), the Pentateuch in 1482, 
the Prophets in 148C, the whole of the O. T. in 1488, 
that by 1406 four editions had been published, and by 
1506 not fewer than eleven (Whitaker, Hist, and Crit. 
Inquiry , p. 22), indicates a demand on the part of the 
Christian students of Europe, not less than on that of 
the more learned Jews. Here also the progress of the 
Com plu ten sian Bible would have attracted the notice 
of scholars. The cry raised by the “Trojans” of Ox- 
ford in 1519 (chiefly consisting of the friars, who from 
the time of Wyclifte had all but swamped the educa- 
tion of the place) against the first Greek lectures — that 
to study that language would make men pagans, that 
to study Hebrew would make them Jews — shows that 
the latter study as well as the former was the object 
of their dislike and fear (Anderson, i, 24 ; Hallam, Lit. 
of Eur. i, 403). 

Whether Tvndale had in this way gained any 
knowledge of Hebrew before he left England in 1524 
may be uncertain. The fact that in 1530-31 he pub- 
lished a translation of Genesis, Deuteronomy, and Jo- 
nah (see a letter by the ven. lord Arthur Hervey to 
the Bury Post of Feb. 3, 1862, transferred shortly after- 
wards to the Atheneeum ), may be looked on as the first- 
fruits of his labors, the work of a man who was giving 
this proof of his power to translate from the original 
(Anderson, Annals , i, 209-288). We may perhaps 
trace, among other motives for the many wanderings 
of his exile, a desire to visit the cities Worms, Cologne, 
Hamburg, Antwerp (Anderson, p. 48-64), where the 
Jews lived in greatest numbers, and some of which 
were famous for their Hebrew learning. Of at least 
a fair acquaintance with that language we have, a few 
years later, abundant evidence in the table of Hebrew 
words prefixed to his translation of the five books of 
Closes, and in casual etymologies scattered through 
his other works, e. g. “ Mammon” ( Parable of Wicked 



iui^ianu Jf 1 vr&dii ^]i. ii icmaiiv p iei- 

ace to Obedience , p. 148) shows how well he had en- 
tered into the general spirit of the language. “ The 
properties of the Hebrew tongue agreeth a thousand 
times more with the Englishe than with the Latine. 
The manner of speaking is in both one, so that in a 
thousand places thou needest not but to translate it 
into Englishe word for word.” When Spalatin de- 
scribes him in 1534, it is as one well-skilled in seven 
languages, and one of these is Hebrew (Anderson, i, 
397). 

The N. T. was, however, the great object of his care. 
First the gospels of Matthew and Mark were published 
tentatively, then in 1525 the whole of the N. T. was 
printed in 4to at Cologne, and in small Svo at Worms 
(reproduced in fac-similc in 1862 by Mr. Francis Fry, 
Bristol). The work was the fruit of a self-sacrificing 
zeal, and the zeal was its own reward. In England 
it was received with denunciations. Tonstal, bishop 
of London, preaching at Paul’s Cross, asserted that 
there were at least 2000 errors in it, and ordered all 
copies of it to be bought up and burnt. An act of 
Parliament (35 Hen. VIII, cap. 1) forbade the use of 
all copies of Tyndale’s “ false translation.” Sir T. 
More (Dialogues, 1. c. Supplication of Souls, Confutation 
of TindaVs Answer ) entered the lists against it, and 
accused the translator of heresy, bad scholarship, and 
dishonesty, of “ corrupting Scripture after Luther’s 
counsel.” The treatment which it received from pro- 
fessed friends was hardly less annoying. Piratical 
editions were printed, often carelessly, by trading pub- 


lishers at Antwerp. One of his own pupils, George 
Joye, undertook (in 1534) to improve the version by 
bringing it into closer conformity with the Vulgate, 
and made it tiie vehicle of peculiar opinions of his 
own, substituting “ life after this life,” or “ verie life,” 
for “ resurrection,” as the translation of dvdaraciq. 
(Comp. Tyndale’s indignant protest In Pref. to edition 
of 1534.) Even the most zealous reformers in Eng- 
land seemed disposed to throw his translation over- 
board, and encouraged Coverdale (see below) in under- 
taking another. In the mean time the work went on. 
Editions were printed one after another, namely, at 
Hamburg, Cologne, Worms, in 1525; Antwerp in 1526, 
’27, ’28; Marlborow (= Marburg) in 1529; Strasburg 
(Jove’s edition) in 1531 ; Bergen-op-Zooni in 1533 
(.Joye’s); John vi at Nuremberg in 1533; Antwerp in 
1534 (Cotton, Printed Editions, p. 4-6). The last ap- 
peared in 1535, just before his death, “diligently com- 
pared with the Greek,” presenting for the first time 
systematic chapter-headings, and with some peculiar- 
ities in spelling specially intended for the pronuncia- 
tion of the peasantry (Offor, Life, p. 82). His heroic 
life was brought to a close in 1536. We may cast one 
look on its sad end — the treacherous betrayal, the Ju- 
das-kiss of the false friend, the imprisonment at Vil- 
vorden, the last prayer, “Lord, open the king of Eng- 
land's eyes.” He was tied to the stake, then stran- 
gled to death, and finally burnt. (See Oflor’s memoir 
prefixed to his edition of Tyndale’s New Testament.) 

The work to which a life was thus nobly devoted 
was as nobly done. To Tvndale belongs the honor 
of having given the first example of a translation 
based on true principles, and the excellence of later 
versions has been almost in exact proportion as they 
followed his. Believing that every part of Scripture 
had one sense and one only, the sense in the mind of 
the writer ( Obedience , p. 304), he made it his work, 
using all philological helps that were accessible to at- 
tain that sense. Believing that the duty of a transla- 
tor was to place his readers as nearly as possible on a 
level with those for whom the books were originally 
written, he looked on all the later theological associa- 
tions that had gathered round the words of the N. T. 
as hindrances rather than helps, and sought, as far as 
possible, to get rid of them. Not “grace,” but “fa- 
vor,” even in John i, 1 7 (in edition of 1525): not 
“charity,” but “love;” not “confessing,” but “ac- 
knowledging;” not “penance,” but “repentance;” 
not “ priests,” but “seniors” or “elders;” not “sal- 
vation,” but “health;” not “church,” but “congre- 
gation,” are instances of the changes which were then 
looked on as startling and heretical innovations (Sir 
T. More, l. e.). Some of them we are now familiar 
with. In others the later versions bear traces of a re- 
j action in favor of the older phraseology. In this, as 
1 in other things, Tvndale was in advance, not only of 
his own age, but of the age that followed him. To 
him, however, it is owing that the versions of the 
English Church have throughout been popular, and 
i not scholastic. All the exquisite grace and simplicity 
which have endeared the A. V. to men of the most op- 
I posite tempers and contrasted opinions — to J. H. New- 
man ( Dublin Review, June, 1853) and J. A. Fronde — is 
due mainly to his clear-sighted truthfulness. The 
testimony of a Roman Catholic scholar is worth quot- 
ing : “In point of perspicacity and noble simplicity, 
propriety of idiom and purity of style, no English ver- 
sion has as vet surpassed it” (Geddes, Prospectus for 
a new Translation, p. 89). The desire to make the 
Bible a people’s book led Tvndale in one edition to 
something like a, provincial rather than a national 
translation ; but, on the whole, it kept him free from 
the besetting danger of the time, that of writing for 
scholars, not for the people ; of a version full of “ ink- 
horn” phrases, notin the spoken language of the Eng- 
lish nation. And throughout there is the pervading 
stamp, so often wanting iu other like works, of the 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


21 

most thorough truthfulness. Xo word has been alter- 
ed to court a king’s favor, or please bishops, or make 
out a ease for or against a particular opinion. He is 
■working freely, not in the fetters of prescribed rules. | 
AVitli the most entire sincerity he could say, “ i call 
God to record, against the day we shall appear before 
our Lord Jesus to give a reckoning of our doings, that 
I never altered one syllable of God's Word against 
my conscience, nor would this day, if all that is in the 
world, whether it be pleasure, honor, or riches, might 
be given me” (Anderson, i, 349). 

IV. Coverdale.— 1. A complete translation of the 
Bible, different from Tviidale’s, bearing the name of 
Miles Coverdale, printed probably at Zurich, appeared 
in 1535. The undertaking itself, and the choice of 
Coverdale as the translator, were probably due to 
Cromwell. Tvndale’s controversial treatises, and the 
polemical character of his prefaces and notes, had irri- 
tated the leading ecclesiastics, and embittered the mind 
of the king himself against him. All that he had writ- 
ten was publicly condemned. There was no hope of ob- 
taining the king’s sanction to anything that bore his 
name. But the idea of an English translation began to 
find favor. The rupture with the see of Borne, the mar- 
riage with Anne Bolevn, made Henry willing to adopt 
what was urged upon him as the surest way of break- 
ing forever the spell of the pope’s authority. The bish- 
ops even began to think of the thing as possible. It 
was talked of in Convocation. They would take it in 
band themselves. The work did not, however, make 
much progress. The great preliminary question wheth- 
er “ venerable” words, such as hostia, penance, pascha, 
holocaust, and the like, should be retained, was still 
unsettled (Anderson, i, 414). Not till “the day after 
doomsday” (the words are Cranmer’s) were the Eng- 
lish people likely to get their English Bible from the 
bishops ( ib . i, 577). Cromwell, it is probable, thought 
it better to lose no further time, and to strike while 
the iron was hot. A divine whom he had patronized, 
though not, like Tyndale, feeling liimself called to that 
special work ( Prrf, to Coverdale' s Bible'), was willing 
to undertake it. To him accordingly it was intrust- 
ed. There was no stigma attached to his name, and, 
though a sincere Reformer, neither at that time nor 
afterwards did he occupy a sufficiently prominent po- 
sition to become an object of special persecution. 

2. The work which was thus executed was done, as 
might be expected, in a very different fashion from 
Tyndale’s. Of the two men, one had made this the 
great object of his life ; the other, in his own language, 
“ sought it not, neither desired it,” but accepted it as 
a task assigned him. One prepared himself for the 
work by long years of labor in Greek and Hebrew ; 
the other is content to make a translation at second 
hand “ out of the Douche (Luther’s German Version) 
and the Latinc.” The one aims at a rendering which 
shall be the truest and most exact possible; the oth- 
er loses himself in weak commonplace as to the ad- 
vantage of using many English words for one and the 
same word in the original, and in practice oscillates 
between “penance” and “repentance,” “love” and 
“charity,” “priests” and “elders,” as though one set 
of words were as true and adequate as the other ( Pref- 
ace , p. 19). In spite of these weaknesses, however, 
there is much to esteem in t lit* spirit and temper of 
Coverdale. lie is a second-rate man, laboring as such 
contentedly, not ambitious to appear other than he is. 
He thinks it a great gain that there should be a di- 
versity of translations. He acknowledges, though be 
dare not name it, the excellence of Tyndale’s version, 
and regrets the misfortune which left it incomplete. 
He. states frankly that he had done his work with the 
assistance of that and of five others. The five were 
probably : (1.) The Vulgate; (*2.) Luther’s; (3.) The 
German Swiss version of Zurich ; (4.) The Latin of 
Pagninus ; (5.) Tyndale’s. Others, however, have con- 
jectured a German translation of the Vulgate earlier 


0 

than Luther’s, and a Dutch version from Luther (Whit- 
aker, Ilht. and Crit. Inquiry , p. 49). If the language 
of his dedication to the king, whom be compares to 
Moses, David, and Josiah, seems to be somewhat ful- 
some in its flattery, it is, at least, hardly more offensive 
than that of the Dedication of the A. A"., and there was 
more to palliate it. 

3. An inspection of Coverdale’s version serves to 
show the influence of the authorities he followed. The 
proper names of the O. T. appear for the most part in 
their Latin form, “Elias,” “Eliseus,” “Ochozias;” 
sometimes, as in “ Esay” and “Jeremy,” in that which 
was familiar in spoken English. Some points of cor- 
respondence with Luther’s version are not without in- 
terest. Thus “Cush,” which in AVyeliffc, Tyndale, 
and the A. AT is uniformly rendered “Ethiopia,” is in 

1 Coverdale “ Morians* land” (Psa. Ixviii, 31 ; Actsviii, 

1 27, etc.), after the “Mohrenlande” of Luther, and ap- 
pears in this form accordingly in the P.-B. version of 
the Psalms. The proper name Rabshakch passes, 
as in Luther, into the “ chief butler” (2 Kings xviii, 
17; Isa. xxxvi, 11). In making the sons of David 
“priests” (2 Sam. viii, IS) he followed both his au- 
thorities. 'E tt'ktkottoi are “bishops” in Acts xx, 28 
(“overseers” in A. A".). “Shiloh,” in the prophecy 
of Gen. xlix, 10, becomes “the worthy,” after Luther’s 
“der Held.” “ They houghed oxen” takes the place 
of “ they digged down a wall,” in Gen. xlix, G. The 
singular word “ Lamia” is taken from the ATilg., as 
the English rendering of Ziim (“wild beasts,” A. AT) 
in Isa. xxxiv, 14. The “tabernacle of witness,” where 
the A. AT has “congregation,” shows the same influ- 
ence. In spite of Tyndale, the ATilg. “plena gratia,” 

; in Luke i, 28, leads to “full of grace ;” while we have, 
on the other hand, “congregation” throughout the N. 
T. for iKn\i]<jia, and “love” instead of “charity” in 1 
Cor. xiii. It was the result of the same indecision 
that his language as to the Apocrypha lacks the sharp- 
ness of that of the more zealous reformers. “Ba- 
ruch" is placed with the canonical books, after “ Lam- 
entations.” Of the rest he says that they are “ placed 
apart,” as “not held by ecclesiastical doctors in the 
samo repute” as the other Scriptures, hut this is only 
because there are “dark sayings” which seem to differ 
from the “open Scripture.” He has no wish that 
they should be “despised or little set by.” “Pa- 
tience and study would show that the two were agreed.” 

4. AVhat has been stated practically disposes of the 
claim which has sometimes been made for this version 
of Coverdale’s, as though it had been made from the 
original text (Anderson, i, 5G4; AV hi taker, Hist, and 
Crit. Inquiry , p. 58). It is not improbable, however, 
that as time went on he added to his knowledge. r J he 
letter addressed by him to Cromwell i Remains, p. 492, 
Parker Soc.) obviously asseits, somewhat ostentatious- 
ly, an acquaintance “not only with the standing text 
of the Hebrew, with the interpretation of the Chaldee 
and the Greek,” but also with “the diversity of read- 
ing of all sects.” He, at any rate, continued his work 
as a pains-taking editor. Fresh editions of his Bible 
were published, keeping their ground in spite of rivals, 
in 1537, 1539, 1550, 1553. He was called in at a still 
later period to assist in the Geneva version. Among 
smaller facts connected with this edition may be men- 
tioned the appearance of Hebrew letters — of the name 
Jehovah — in the title-page (!“Ci"P), and again in the 
margin of the alphabetic poetry of Lamentations, 
though not of Psa. cxix. The plural form “Biblia” 
is retained in the title-page, possibly, however, in its 

[ later use as a singular feminine (comp. Bible:). There 
are no notes, no chapter-headings, no divisions into 
i verses. The letters A, B, C, D in the margin, as in 
j the early editions of Greek and Latin authors, are the. 
onlv helps for finding places. Marginal references 
point to parallel passages. The O. T., especially in 
Genesis, lias the attraction of wood-cuts. Each book 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


213 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


has a table of contents prefixed to it. A careful re- 
print, though not a foe-simile, of Coverdale’s version 
has been published by Bagster (Lond. 1838). 

V. Matthew. — 1. In the year 1537, a large folio 
Bible appeared as edited and dedicated to the king, by 
Thomas Matthew. No one of that name appears at 
all prominently in the religious history of Henry VII T, 
and this suggests the inference that the name was 
pseudonymous, adopted to conceal the real translator. 
The tradition which connects this Matthew with John 
Rogers, the protomartyr of the Marian persecution, is 
all but undisputed. It rests (1) on the language of 
the indictment and sentence which describe him (Foxe, 
Acts and Monuments, p. 1029, 15G3; Chester, Life of 
Rogers, p. 41S-423) as Joannes Rogers, alias Matthew, 
as if it were a matter of notoriety ; (2) the testimo- 
ny of Foxe himself, as representing, if not personal 
knowledge, the current belief of his time; (3) the oc- 
currence, at the close of a short exhortation to the 
study of Scripture in the preface, of the initials J. U. ; 
(4) internal evidence. This last subdivides itself. («.) 
Rogers, who had graduated at Pembroke College, 
Cambridge, in 1525, and had sufficient fame to be in- 
vited to the new Cardinal’s College at Oxford, accept- 
ed the office of chaplain to the merchant adventurers 
of Antwerp, and there became acquainted with Tyn- 
dale two years before the latter’s death. Matthew's 
Bible, as might be expected, if this hypothesis were 
true, reproduces Tyndale’s work, in the N. T. entire- 
ly, in the 0. T. as far as 2 Cliron., the rest being taken, 
with occasional modifications, from Coverdalc. (6.) 
The language of the Dedication is that of one who lias 
mixed much, as Rogers mixed, with foreign reform- 
ers (“the godlic in strange countries”). 

2. The printing of the book was begun apparently 
abroad, ami was carried on as far as the end of Isaiah. 
At that point a new pagination begins, and the names 
of the London printers, Grafton and Whitcchurch, ap- 
pear. The history of the book was probably some- 
thing like this : Coverdale’s translation had not given 
satisfaction — least of all were the more zealous and 
scholar-like reformers contented with it. As the only 
complete English Bible, it was, however, as yet, in 
possession of the field. Tvndale and Rogers, there- 
fore, in the year preceding the imprisonment of the 
former, determined on another, to include O. T., N. T., 
and Apocrypha, but based throughout on the original. 
Left to himself, Rogers carried on the work, probably 
at the expense of the same Antwerp merchant who 
had assisted Tvndale (Poyntz), and thus got as far as 
Isaiah. The enterprising London printers, Grafton 
and Whitcchurch, then came in (Chester, Life of Rog- 
ers, p. 23)- It would be a good speculation to enter 
the market with this, and so drive out Coverdale’s, in 
which the}’ had no interest. They accordingly em- 
barked a considerable capital, £500, and then came a 
stroke of policy which may be described as a miracle of 
audacity. The name of Rogers, known as the friend of 
Tvndale, is suppressed, and the simulacrum of Thom- 
as Matthew disarms suspicion. The book is sent by 
Grafton to Cranmer. lie reads, approves, rejoices. 
He would rather have the news of its being licensed 
than a thousand pounds (Chester, p. 425-427). Appli- 
cation is then made both by Grafton and Cranmer to 
Cromwell. The king’s license is granted, but the pub- 
lisher wants more. Nothing less than a monopoly for 
live years will give him a fair margin of profit. With- 
out this, he is sure to be undersold by piratical, inac- 
curate editions, badly printed on inferior paper. Fail- 
ing this, he trusts that the king will order one copy to 
be bought by every incumbent, and six by every ab- 
bey. If this was too much, the king might, at least, 
impose that obligation on all the popishly- inclined 
clergy. That will bring in something, besides the 
good it may possibly do them (Chester, p. 430). The 
application was to some extent successful. A copy 
was ordered, b}’ royal proclamation, to be set up in 


every church, the cost being divided between the cler- 
gy and the parishioners. 4 his was, therefore, the first 
Authorized Version. It is scarcely conceivable, how- 
ever, that Henry could have read the book which he 
thus sanctioned, or known that it was substantially 
identical with what had been publicly stigmatized in 
his Acts of Parliament (lit svpi'a). What had before 
given most offence had been the polemical character of 
Tyndale's annotations, and here were notes bolder and 
more thorough still. Even the significant “W. T.” 
does not appear to have attracted notice. 

3. What has been said of Tyndale’s version applies, 
of course, to this. There are, however, signs of a 
more advanced knowledge of Hebrew. All the tech- 
nical words connected with the Psalms, Negiuoth, 
Shiggaion, Sheminith, etc., are elaborately explained. 
Psa. ii is printed as a dialogue. The names of the He- 
brew letters are prefixed to the verses of Lamenta- 
tions. Reference is made to the Chaldee Paraphrase 
(Job vi), to Rabbi Abraham (Job xix), to Kimchi (Psa. 
iii). A like range of knowledge is shown in the N. 
T. Strabo is quoted to show that the magi were not 
kings, Macrobius as testifying to Herod’s ferocity 
(Matt, ii), Erasmus’s Paraphrase on Matt, xiii, xv. 
The popular identification of Mary Magdalene with 
“the woman that was a sinner” is discussed, and re- 
jected (Luke x). More noticeable even than in Tyn- 
dale is the boldness and fulness of the exegetieal notes 
scattered throughout the hook. Strong and earnest in 
asserting what he looked upon as the central truths of 
the Gospel, there was in Rogers a Luther-like freedom 
in other things which has not appeared again in any 
authorized translation or popular commentary. He 
guards his readers against looking on the narrative of 
Job i as literally true. He recognises a definite his- 
torical starting-point for Psa. xlv (“ The sons of Korah 
praise Solomon for the beauty, eloquence, power, and 
j nobleness, both of himself and of his wife”), Psa. xxii 

(“ David dcclareth Christ’s dejection and all, 

under figure of himself’), and the Song of Solomon 
(“Solomon made this balade for himself and his wife, 
the daughter of Pharaoh, under the shadow of himself, 
figuring Christ,” etc.). The chief duty of the Sab- 
bath is “to minister the fodder of the Word to simple 
souls,” to be “ pitiful over the weariness of such neigh- 
bors as labored sore all the week long.” “ When 
such occasions come as turn our rest to occupation and 
labor, then ought we to remember that the Sabbath 
was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath” (Jer. 
xvii). He sees in the prophets of the N. T. simply 
“expounders of Holy Scripture” (Acts xv). To the 
man living in faith, “ Peter’s fishing after the resur- 
rection, and all deeds of matrimony are pure spirit- 
ual to those who are not, “learning, doctrine, con- 
templation of high things, preaching, study of Scrip- 
ture, founding of churches and abbeys, are works of 
the flesh” (Pref to Romans). “Neither is outward 
circumcision or outward baptism worth a pin of them- 
selves, save that they put us in remembrance to keep 
the covenant” (1 Cor. vii). “ lie that desireth honor 
gaspeth after lucre .... castles, parks, lordships . . 

. . desireth not a work, much less a good work, and 
nothing less than a bishop’s”(l Tim. iii). Ezek. xxxiv 
is said to be “against bishops and curates that despise 
the flock of Christ.” The uyyzXoQ LocXitViag of Rev. 
ii and iii appears (as in Tvndale) as “the messenger 
of the congregation.” Strong protests against Pur- 
gator} r are found in notes to Ezek. xviii and 1 Cor. iii, 
and in the “Table of Principal Matters” it is signifi- 
cantly stated under the word Purgatory that “it is not 
in the Bible, but the purgation and remission of our 
sins is made us by the abundant mercy of God.” The 
Preface to the Apocrypha explains the name, and dis- 
tinctly asserts the inferiority of these books. No notes 
are added to them, and the translation of them is taken 
from Coverdale, as if it had not been worth while to 
give much labor to it. 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


214 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


4. A few points of detail remain to be noticed. In ! 
the order of the books of the N. T. Rogers follows 
Tyndale, agreeing with the A. V. as far as the Epistle 
to Philemon. This is followed by the Epistles of John, 
then that to the Hebrews, then those of Peter, James, I 
and Jude. Wood-cuts, not very freely introduced 
elsewhere, are prefixed to every chapter in the Reve- 
lation. The introduction of the “Table” mentioned 
above gives Rogers a claim to be the patriarch of Con- 
cordances, the “father” of all such as write in Diction- 
aries of the Bible. Reverence for the Hebrew text is 
shown by his striking out the three verses which the 
Vulgate has added to Psa. xiv. In a later edition, 
published at Paris, not by Rogers himself, but by 
Grafton, under Coverdale’s superintendence, in 1539, 
the obnoxious prologue and prefaces were suppressed, 
and the notes systematically expurgated and toned 
down. The book was in advance of the age. Neither 
booksellers nor bishops were prepared to be responsi- 
ble for it. 

VI. Taverner (1539). — 1. The boldness of the 
pseudo-Matthew had, as has been said, frightened the 
ecclesiastical world from its propriety. Coverdale’s 
version was, however, too inaccurate to keep its 
ground. It was necessary to find another editor, and 
the printers applied to Richard Taverner. But little 
is known of his life. The fact that, though a layman, 
he had been chosen as one of the canons of the Car- 
dinal’s College at Oxford indicates a reputation for 
scholarship, and this is confirmed by the character of 
his translation. It professes, in the title-page, to be 
“ newh r reeognised, with great diligence, after the 
most faithful exemplars.” The editor acknowledges 
‘the labors of others (i. e. Tyndale, Covcrdale, and 
Matthew, though he does not name them) who have 
neither vmdiligently nor unlearnedly travelled,” owns 
that the work is not one that can he done “absolute- 
ly” (i. e. completely) by one or two persons, but re- 
quires “a deeper conferring of many learned wittes 
together, and also a juster time and longer leisure 
but the thing had to he done; he had been asked to 
do it. He had “ used his talent” as he eeuld. 

2. In most respects this may be described as an ex- 
purgated edition of Matthew’s. There is a table of 
principal matters, and there are notes; but the notes 
are briefer and less polemical. The passages quoted 
above are, e. g. omitted wholly or in part. The epis- 
tles follow the same order as before. 

VI I. CitAxaiER. — 1. In the same year as Tavern- 
er’s, and eoming from the same press, appeared an 
English Bible, in a more stately folio, printed with a 
more costly type, bearing a higher name than any 
previous edition. The title-page is an elaborate en- 
graving, the spirit and power of which indicate the 
hand of Holbein. The king, seated on bis throne, is 
giving the Verhum Dpi to the bishops and doctors, and 
they distribute it to the people, while doctors and peo- 
ple are all joining in cries of “ Yivut Bex.” It declares 
the book to be “ truly translated after the verity of 
the Hebrew and Greek texts” by “divers excellent 
learned men, expert in the foresaid tongues.” A pref- 
ace, in April, 1540, with the initials “T. C.,” implies 
the archbishop’s sanction. In a later edition (Nov., 
1540) his name appears on the title-page, and the 
names of his coadjutors are given, Cuthbert (Tonstal), 
bishop of Durham, and Nicholas (Ileatll), bishop of 
Rochester; but this does not exclude the possibility 
of others having been employed for the first edition. 

2. Cranmer’s version presents, as might be expect- 
ed. many points of interest. The prologue gives a 
more complete ideal of what a translation ought to be 
than wc have as yet seen. Words not in the original 
are to be printed in a dilferent type. They are added, 
even when “ not -wanted by the sense,” to satisfy those 
who have “missed them” in previous translations, i. e. 
they represent the various readings of the Vulgate 
where it differs from the Hebrew. The sign * indi- 


cates diversity in the Chaldee and Hebrew. It bad 
been intended to give all these, but it was found that 
this would have taken too much time and space, and 
the editors purposed therefore to print them in a little 
volume by themselves. The frequent hands (iHT) hi 
the margin, in like manner, show an intention to give 
notes at the end; but Matthew's Bible bad made men 
cautious, and, as there had not been time for the 
“king’s council to settle, them,” they were omitted, 
and no help given to the reader beyond the marginal 
references. 1 n the absence of notes, the lay-reader is to 
submit himself to the “godl v-learned in Christ Jesus.” 
There is, as the title-page might lead us to expeet, a 
greater display of Hebrew than in any previous ver- 
sion. The books of the Pentateuch have their Hebrew 
names given, Beresckiik (Genesis), Velfp Srhemoth (Ex- 
odus), and so on. 1 and 2 Chron. in like manner ap- 
pear as Dlbre Ihiiamim. In the edition of 1541, many 
proper names in the 0. T. appear in the fuller Hebrew 
form, as e. g. Amaziahu, Jeremiah u. In spite of this 
parade of learning, however, the edition of 1539 eon- 
tains, perhaps, the most startling blunder that ever 
appeared under the sanction of an archbishop’s name. 
The editors adopted the preface which, in Matthew's 
Bible, had been prefixed to the Apocrypha. In that 
preface the common traditional explanation of the 
name was concisely given. They appear, however, 
to have shrunk from offending the conservative party 
in the Church hy applying to the books in question so 
damnatory an epithet as Apocrypha. They looked 
out for a word more neutral and respectful, and found 
one that appeared in some MSS. of Jerome so applied, 

! though in strictness it belonged to an entirely differ- 
ent set of books. They accordingly substituted that 
word, leaving the preface in all other respects as it was 
' before, and the result is the somewhat ludicrous state- 
ment that the “books were called Ilogicgi'apkct ,” bc- 
I cause “ they were read in secret and apart !” 

3. A later edition in 1541 presents a few modifica- 
tions worth noticing. It appears as “authorized” to 
i be “ used and frequented” in every church in the king- 
j dom. The introduction, with all its elaborate prom- 
i ise of a future perfection, disappears, and in its place 
' there is a long preface by Cranmer, avoiding as much 
as possible all references to other translations, taking 
a safe via media tone, blaming those who “refuse to 
read” on the one hand, and “inordinate reading” en 
the other. This neutral character, so characteristic 
' of Cranmer’ s policy, was doubtless that which enabled 
I it to keep its ground during the changing meods of 
Ilenrv’s later years. It was reprinted again and again, 

; and was the authorized version of the English Church 
till 15G8 — the interval of Mary's reign exeepted. From 
it, accordingly, were taken most, if not all, the por- 
tions of Scripture in the Prayer-books of 1549 and 
1552. The Psalms as a whole, the quotations from 
Scripture in the. Homilies, the sentences in the Com- 
munion services, and some phrases elsewhere (such as 
I “ worthy fruits of penance”), still preserve the re- 
membrance of it. Tbe oscillating character of the 
book is shown in the use of “love” instead of “chari- 
ty” in 1 Cor. xiii; and “congregation” instead of 
“church” generally, after Tyndale; while in 1 Tim. 
iv, 14, we have the singular rendering, as if to gain 
the favor of his opponents, “with authority of priest- 
hood.” The plan of indicating doubtful texts by a 
smaller type was adhered to, and was applied, among 
other passages, to Psa. xiv, 5, f>, 7, and the more mem- 
orable text of 1 John v, 7. The translation of 1 Tim. 
iii, Id, “All Scripture given by inspiration of God is 
profitable,” ete., anticipated a construction of that 
text which lias sometimes been boasted of, and some- 
times attacked as an innovation. In this, however, 


Tyndale had led the way. 

VIII. Geneva. — 4. The experimental translation 
of the Gospel of Matthew by Sir John Cheke into a 
purer English than before (Strvpe, Life <f Cheke , vii, 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


215 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


3) had so littls influence on the versions that followed 
that it hardly calls for more than a passing notice, as 
showing that scholars were as yet unsatisfied. The 
reaction under Mary gave a cheek to the whole work, 
as far as England was concerned ; but the exiles who 
fled to Geneva entered upon it with more vigor than 
ever. Cranmer’s version did not come up to their 
ideal. Its size made it too eostly. There were no 
explanatory or dogmatic notes. It followed Cover- 
dale too closely; and where it deviated, did so, in 
some instances, in a retrograde direction. The Gene- 
van refugees — among them Whittingham, Goodman, 
Pullain, Sampson, and Coverdale himself — labored 
“■for two years or more, day and night.” They en- 
tered on their “great and wonderful work” with much 
“fear and trembling.” Their translation of the N. 
T. was “diligently revised by the most approved Greek 
examples” (MSS. or editions?) (Preface). The N. 
T., translated by Whittingham, was printed by Con- 
rad Radius in 1557, the whole Bible in 15G0. 

2. In point of general correctness in expressing the 
true sense of the Hebrew and Greek Scriptures, the 
Geneva version shows a very marked advance on all 
that preceded it, and for more than sixty years it was 
the most popular of all the English versions. Large- 
ly imported in the early years of Elizabeth, it was 
printed in England in 1561, and a patent of monopoly 
was given to James Bodleigh. This was transferred 
in 1576 to Barker, in whose family the right of printing 
Bibles remained for upwards of a century. Not less 
than eighty editions, some of the whole Bible, were 
printed between 1558 and 1611. It kept its ground 
for some time even against the later version of king 
James, and gave way, as it were, slowly and under 
protest. In the Soldiers' Pocket Bible , published in 
1643 for the use of Cromwell's army, almost all the 
selections of Scripture were taken from the Geneva 
version. The. causes of this general acceptance are 
not difficult to ascertain. The volume was, in most 
of its editions, cheaper and more portable — a small 
quarto, instead of the large folio of Cranmer’s “Great 
Bible.” It was the first Bible w r hicli laid aside the 
adolescent black letter, and appeared in Roman type. 
It was the first which, following the Hebrew example, 
recognised the division into verses, so dear to the 
preachers or hearers of sermons. It was accompanied, 
in most of the editions after 1578, by a Bible Diction- 
ary of considerable merit. The notes were often real- 
ly helpful in dealing with the difficulties of Scripture, 
and were looked upon as spiritual and evangelical. It 
was accordingly the version specially adopted by the 
great Puritan party through the whole reign of Eliza- 
beth, and far into that of James. As might be ex- 
pected, it was based on Tyndale’s version, often re- 
turning to it where the intermediate renderings had 
had the character of a compromise. 

3. Some peculiarities are worthy of special notice : 

(1) It professes a desire to restore t lie “true writing” 
of many Hebrew names, and we meet accordingly 
with forms like Izhak (Isaac), Jaaeob, and the like. 

(2) It omits the name of Paul from the title of the 
Epistle to the Hebrews ; and, in a short preface, leaves 
the authorship an open question. (3) It avows the 
principle of putting all words not in the original in 
italics. (4) It presents, in a Calendar prefixed to the 
Bible, something like a declaration of war against the 
established order of the Church’s lessons, commemora- 
ting Scripture facts, and the deaths of the great re- 
formers, but ignoring saints’ days altogether. (5) It 
was the first English Bible which entirely omitted the 
Apocrypha. (6) The notes were characteristically 
Swiss, not only in their theology, but in their politics. 
They made allegiance to kings dependent upon the 
soundness of their faith, and in one instance (note on 
2 Chron. xv, 16) at least seemed, to the easily startled 
James I, to favor tyrannieide. 

4. The circumstances of the early introduction of 


the Geneva version are worth mentioning, if only as 
showing in how different a spirit the great fathers of 
the English Reformation, the most conservative of 
Anglican theologians, acted from that which has too 
often animated their successors. Men talk now of 
different translations and various readings as likely to 
undermine the faith of the people. When application 
was made to archbishop Parker, in 1565, to support 
Bodleigh’s application for a license to reprint the Ge- 
neva version in 12mo, he wrote to Cecil in its favor. 
He was at the time looking forward to the work he 
afterwards accomplished, of “one other special Bible 
for the churches, to be set forth as convenient time 
and leisure should permit ,” but in the mean time it 
would “nothing hinder, but rather doo much good, to 
have diversity of translations and readings” (Strype, 
Life of Parker, iii, 6). Many of the later reprints, 
instead of the Geneva version from the Greek, have 
Tomson’s translation of Beza’s Latin version; and the 
notes are said to be taken from Joae. Camer, P. Lese- 
ler, Villerius, and Fr. Junius. The Geneva version, 
as published by Barker, is that popularly known as 
the Breeches Bible, from its rendering of Gen. iii, 7. 
It had, however, been preceded in this by Wyeli fife’s. 

IX. The Bishops’ Bible. — 1. The facts just stated 
will account for the wish of archbishop Parker, in spite 
of his liberal tolerance, to bring out another version 
which might establish its claims against that of Gene- 
va. Great preparations were made. The correspond- 
ence of Parker with his suffragans presents some points 
of interest, as showing how little agreement there was 
as to the true theory of a translation. Thus, whilo 
Sandvs, bishop of Worcester, finds fault with the “ com- 
mon translation” (Geneva?), as “following Munster 
too much,” and so “swerving much from the He- 
brew,” Guest, bishop of St. David’s, who took the 
Psalms, acted on the principle of translating them so 
as to agree with the N.-T. quotations, “for the avoid- 
ing of offence;” and Cox, hishop of Ely, while laying 
down the sensible rule that “inkborn terms were to 
be avoided,” also went on to add “that the usual 
terms were to be retained so far forth as the Hebrew 
will well bear” (Strype, Parker, iii, 6). The principle 
of pious frauds, of distorting the truth for the sake of 
edification, has perhaps often been acted on by other 
translators. It has not often been so explicitly avow- 
ed as in the first of these suggestions. 

2. The bishops thus consulted, eight in number, to- 
gether with some deans and professors, brought out 
the fruit of their labors in a magnificent folio (1568 
and 1572). Everything had been done to make it at- 
tractive. A long erudite preface vindicated the right 
of the people to read the Scriptures, and (quoting the 
authority of bishop Fisher) admitted the position which 
later divines have often been slow to admit, that 
“there be yet in the Gospel many dark places which, 
without all doubt, to the posterity shall be made much 
more open.” Wood-engravings of a much higher 
character than those of the Geneva Bible were scat- 
tered profusely, especially in Genesis. Three por- 
traits of the queen, the earl of Leicester, and lord Bur- 
leigh, beautiful specimens of copperplate engraving, 
appeared on the title-pages of the several parts. A 
map of Palestine was given, with degrees of latitude 
and longitude, in the edition of 1572. It also contain- 
ed more numerous illustrated initials. Some of these 
caused very great dissatisfaction, being grossly offen- 
sive representations of heathen mythology; for which, 
however, the printer alone was responsible, who used 
such ornamental initials as he chose, following the 
taste of the age. From one of them, the initial letter 
of the Epistle to the Hebrews, this version is popular- 
ly known as the Leela Bible. A most elaborate series 
of genealogical tables, prepared by Hugh Broughton, 
the great rabbi of the age (of whom more hereafter), 
but ostensibly by Speed the antiquary (Brongnton’s 
name being in disfavor with the bishops), -was prefixed 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


21G 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


(Strype, Parke r, iv, 20; Lightfoot, Life of Brought on). 
In some points it followed previous translations, and 
was avowedly based on Cranmer’s. “A new edition 
was necessary.” “This had led some well-disposed 
men to recognise it again, not as condemning the for- 
mer translation, which has been followed mostly of any 
other translation, excepting the original text” (Pref. 
of 1572). Cranmer’s Prologue was reprinted. The 
Geneva division into verses was adopted throughout. 

3. Some peculiarities, however, appear for the first 
and last time. (1.) The books of the Bible are classi- 
fied as legal, historical, sapiential, and prophetic. This 
was easy enough for the 0. T.,but the application of 
the same idea to the X. T. produced some rather curi- 
ous combinations. The Gospels, the catholic Epis- 
tles, and those to Titus, Philemon, and the Hebrews, 
are grouped together as legal, St. Paul’s other epistles 
as. sapiential ; the Acts appear as the one historical, 
the Revelation as the one prophetic book. (2.) It is 
the only Bible in which many passages, sometimes 
nearly a whole chapter, have been marked for the ex- 
press purpose of being omitted when the chapters were 
read in the public service of the Church. (3.) In the 
edition of 1572, Cranmer’s version of the Psalms, as 
being the one used in the Book of Common Prayer 
(which could not be changed without an act of Parlia- 
ment), was printed along with the Bishops’ version in 
parallel columns. In the editions subsequent to this 
date the Bishops’ version is omitted altogether, and 
that of Cranmer is substituted in its place, in order 
that the Bible and the Praver-book might have the 
same version. They are so far worthless, therefore, 
as editions of the Bishops’ Bible. (4.) The initials of 
the translators were attached to the books which they 
had severally undertaken. The -work was done on 
the plan of limited, not joint liability. (5.) Here, as 
in the Geneva, there is the attempt to give the Hebrew 
proper names more accurately, as e. g. in Heva, Isa- 
hac, Uziahn, etc. 

4. Of all the English versions, the Bishops’ Bible 
had probabty the least success. It did not command 
the respect of scholars, and its size and cost were far 
from meeting the wants of the people. Its circulation 
appears to have been practically limited to the church- 
es which were ordered to be supplied with it. It had, 
however, at any rate, the right to boast of some good 
Hebrew scholars among the translators, one of whom, 
bishop Alley, had written a Hebrew Grammar; and, 
though vehemently attacked by Broughton (Townley, 
Literar y History of the Bible , iii, 190), it was defended 
as vigorously by Fulke, and, together with the A.A\, 
received from Selden the praise of being “the best 
translation in the world” ( Table Talk , 1 1 'orks, iii, 2009). 

X. 1 lu kims axdDouay. — 1. The successive changes 
in the Protestant versions of the Scriptures were, as 
might be expected, matter of triumph to the contro- 
versialists of the Latin Church. Some saw in it an 
argument against any translation of Scripture into the 
spoken language of the people. Others pointed de- 
risively to the want of unity which these changes dis- 
played. There were some, however, who took the line 
which Sir T. More and Gardiner had taken under Hen- 
ry VI 11. They did not object to the principle of an 
English translation. They only charged all the ver- 
sions hitherto made with being false, corrupt, heretical. 
To this there was the ready retort that they had them- 
selves done nothing; that their bishops in the reign of 
Henry had promised, but had not performed. It was 
felt to he necessary that they should take some steps 
which might enable them to turn the edge of this re- 
proach. Accordingly, the English refugees who were 
settled at Rlieims — Martin, Allen (afterwards cardi- 
nal), and Bristow — undertook the work. Gregory Alar- 
tin, who had graduated at Cambridge, had signalized 
himself by an attack on the existing versions, and had 
been answered in an elaborate treatise by Fulke, mas- 
ter of Catharine Hall, Cambridge (A Defence of the Sin- 


cere and True Translation , etc.). The charges are mosv« 
Iv of the same kind as those brought by Sir T. More 
against Tyndale. “ The old time-honored words were 
discarded. The authority of the Septuagiut and Vul- 
gate was set at naught when the translator’s view 7 of 
the meaning of the Hebrew and Gree k differed from 
what he found in them.” The new model translation 
was to avoid these faults. It yvas to command the re- 
spect at once of priests and people. After an incuba- 
tion of some years, it was published at Blieims in 1582. 
Though Martin was competent to translate from the 
Greek, it professed to be based on “the authentic text 
of the Vulgate.” Notes were added, as strongly dog- 
matic as those of the Geneva Bible, and often keenly 
controversial. The work of translation was completed 
somewhat later by the publication of the O. T. at Dou- 
av in 1009. The language was precisely what might 
have been expected from men who adopted Gardiner’s 
ideal of what a translation ought to be. At every 
page we stumble on “strange inkhorn words,” which 
never had been English, and never could be, such, e. g. 
as “ the Pas che and the Azymes” (Mark xvi. 1), “the 
arch-svnagogue” (Maik v,35), “ in prepuce” (Bom. iv, 
9 ), “ obdurate with the fallacie of sin” (Heb.iii,13), “a 
greater hoste” (Heb. xi,4), “this is the annnntiation” 
(1 John v, 5), “ pre-ordinate” (Acts xiii, 48), “the jus- 
tifications of our Lord” (Luke i, G), “ what is to me and 
thee” (John ii, 4), “ longanimity” (Rom. ii, 4), “purge 
the old leaven that you may be a new paste, as you 
are azj'mes” (1 Cor. iv, 7), “you are evacuated from 
Christ” (Gal. v, 4), and so on. 

2. A style such as this had, as might be expected, 

I ut few 7 admirers. Among those few, however, we 
find one great name. Bacon, who leaves the great 
w ork of the reign of James unnoticed, and quotes al- 
most unifoimly from t he Vulgate, goes out of his way 
to praise the llhemish version for having restored 
“charity” to the place from which Tyndale had ex- 
pelled it, in 1 Cor. xiii ( Of the Paciji cation of the 
Church). Even Roman Catholic divines have felt the 
superiority of the A. A"., and Challoner, in his editions 
of the N. T. in 1748, and the Bible, 17G3, often fellows 
it in preference to the Rheims and Donav translations. 

XI. King James’s Aversion. — 1. The position of 
the English Church in relation to the versions in use 
at the commencement of the reign of James was hard- 
13 7 satisfactory 7 . The Bishops’ Bible was sanctioned 
by 7 authority 7 . That of Geneva had the strongest, hold 
on the affections of the people. Scholars, Hebreyv 
scholars in particular, found grave fault with both. 
Hugh Broughton, yvho spoke Hebrew as if it bad been 
bis mother tongue, denounced the former as being full 
of “traps and pitfalls,” “overthrowing all religion,” 
and proposed a new revision to be effected by 7 an Eng- 
lish Septuagint (72), yvith poyver to consult gardeners, 
artists, and the like, about the words connected yvith ■ 
their several callings, and bound to submit their yverk 
to one qualified for difficulties.” This ultimate ref- 
eree was, of course, to 1 e himself (Stiype, Whit gift, h r , 
19, 23). ITihappilv, neither his temper nor his manners 
were such as to win favor for this suggestion. AVhit- 
gift disliked him, yvorried him, drove him into exile. 
Broughton’s yfiews yvere, however, shared by others ; 
and among the demands of the Puritan representatives 
at the Hampton-Court Conference in 1GC4 (Dr. Rei- 
nohls being the spokesman), yvas one for a ncyv, or, at 
least, a revised translation. The special objections 
yvhieh they 7 urged yvere neither numerous (three pas- 
sages only 7 — Psa. ev, 28 ; evi, 30 ; Gal. iv, 25 — yvere re- 
ferred to) nor important, and yve must conclude either 
that this part of their case had not been carefully got 
up, or that the bullying to yvhieh they 7 yvere exposed 
had had the desired effect of throwing them into some 
confusion. The bishops treated the difficulties w hich 
they 7 did raise yvith supercilious scorn. They 7 were 
“trivial, old, and often answered.” Bancroft raised 
the cr} 7 of alarm yvhieh a timid conservatism has so of- 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


217 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


ten raised since. “If every man’s liumor were to be 
followed, there would be no end of translating” (Card- 
well, Conferences, p. 188). Cranmer’s words seemed 
likely to be fulfilled again. Had it been left to the 
bishops, we might have waited for the A.V. “ till the 
day after doomsday.” Even when the work was done, 
and the translators acknowledged that the Hampton *• 
Court Conference had been the starting-point of it, 
they could not resist the temptation of a fling at their 
opponents. The objections to the Bishops’ Bible had, 
they said, been nothing more than a shift to justify the 
refusal of the Puritans to subscribe to the Communion- 
book (. Preface to A.V.). But the king disliked the 
politics of the Geneva Bible. Either repeating what 
he had heard from others, or exercising his own judg- 
ment, he declared that there was as yet no good trans- 
lation, and that the Geneva was the worst of all. 
Nothing, however, was settled at the Conference be- 
yond the hope thus held out. 

2. But the king was not forgetful of what he thought 
likely to be the glory of his reign. The work of or- 
ganizing and superintending the arrangements for a 
new translation was one specially congenial to him, 
and in 1G0G the task was accordingly commenced. 
The selection of the fifty-four scholars to whom it was 
intrusted seems, on the whole, to have been a wise and 
fair one. Andrews, Sara via, Overal, Montague, and 
Barlow represented the “higher” party in the Church ; 
Remolds, Chaderton, and Lively that of the Puritans. 
Scholarship unconnected with party was represented 
by Henry Savile and John Boys. One name, that of 
Broughton, is indeed conspicuous by its absence. The 
greatest Hebrew scholar of the age — the man who had, 
in a letter to Cecil (1595), urged this very plan of a 
joint translation — who had already translated several 
books of the 0. T. (Job, Ecclesiastes, Daniel, Lamen- 
tations), was ignominiously excluded. This may have 
been, in part, owing to the dislike with which Whit- 
gift and Bancroft had all along regarded him. But 
in part, also, it was owing to Broughton’s own char- 
acter. An unmanageable tender, showing itself in 
violent language, and the habit of stigmatizing those 
who differed from him, even on such questions as those 
connected with names and dates, as heretical and 
atheistic, must have made him thoroughly impractica- 
ble ; one of the men whose presence throws a commit- 
tee or conference into chaos. Only forty-seven names 
appear in the king’s list (Burnet, Reform. Recoi'ds). 
Seven may have died or declined to act; or it may 
have been intended that there should be a final com- 
mittee of revision. A full list is given by Fuller (Ch. 
Hist, x) ; and is reproduced, with biographical partic- 
ulars, by Todd and Anderson. The Puritan side was, 
however, weakened by the death of Remolds and Live- 
ly during the progress of the work. 

3. What reward other than that of their own con- 
sciences and the judgment of posterity were the men 
thus chosen to expect for their long and laborious task ? 
The king was not disposed to pay them out of his state 
revenue. Gold and silver were not always plentiful 
in the household of the English Solomon, and from 
him they received nothing (Hey wood, State of A nth. 
Bibl. Revision). There remained, however, an inge- 
nious form of liberality, which had the merit of being 
inexpensive. A king’s letter was sent to the arch- 
bishops and bishops, to be transmitted by them to their j 
chapters, commending all the translators to their fa- 
vorable notice. They were exhorted to contribute 
in all 1000 marks, and the king was to be informed of 
each man's liberality. If any livings in their gift, or 
in the gift of private persons, became vacant, the king | 
was to be informed of it, that lie might nominate some 
of the translators to the vacant preferment. Heads 
of colleges, in like manner, were enjoined to give free 
board and lodging to such divines as were summoned 
from the country to labor in the great work (Strype, 
Whitgift , iv). That the king might take his place as 


director of the whole, a copy of fifteen instructions 
was sent to each translator, and apparently circulated 
freely in both universities. 

4. The instructions thus given will be found in 
Fuller ( l . c.), and with a more accurate text in Bur- 
net ( Reform . Records). It \yill not be necessary to 
give them here in full ; but it will be interesting to 
note the bearing of each clause upon the work in hand, 
and its relation to previous versions. (1) The Bish- 
ops’ Bible was to be followed, and as little altered as 
the original will permit. This was probably intended 
to quiet the alarm of those, who saw in the proposed 
new version a condemnation of that already existing. 
(2) The names of prophets and others, were to be re- 
tained as nearly as may be in the form vulgarly used. 
This was to guard against forms like lzhak, Jeremiahu, 
etc., which had been introduced in some versions, and 
which some Hebrew scholars were willing to introduce 
more copiously. To it we owe probably the forms Jer- 
emy, Elias, Osee, Core, in the N. T. (3) The old eccle- 
siastical words were to be kept, as the word ‘•church” 
not to be translated “congregation.” The rule was 
apparently given for the sake of this special applica- 
tion. “Charity,” in 1 Cor. xiii, was probably also 
tine to it. The earlier versions, it will be remembered, 
had gone on the opposite principle. (4) “ When any 
word bath divers significations, that to be kept which 
hath been most commonly used by the most eminent 
fathers, being agreeable to the propriety of the place 
and the analogy of faith.” This, like the former, 
tends to confound the functions of the preacher and 
the translator, and substitutes ecclesiastical tradition 
for philological accuracy. (5) The division of the 
chapters to be altered either not at all, or as little as 
possible. Here, again, convenience was more in view 
than truth and accuracy, and the result is that divi- 
sions are perpetuated which are manifestly arbitrary 
and misleading. (6) No marginal notes to be affixed 
but only for the explanation of Hebrew and Greek 
words. This was obviously directed against the Ge- 
neva notes, as the special objects of the king’s aver- 
sion. Practically, however, in whatever feeling it 
originated, we may be thankful that the A.V. came 
out as it did, without note or comment. The open 
Bible was placed in the hands of all readers. The 
work of interpretation was left free. Had an opposite 
course been adopted, we might have had the tremen- 
dous evil of a whole body of exegesis imposed upon 
the Church by authority, reflecting the Calvinism of 
the Synod of Dort, the absolutism of James, the high- 
flying prelacy of Bancroft. (7) “ Such quotations of 
places to be marginally set down as may serve for fit 
reference of one Scripture to another.” The principle 
that Scripture is its own interpreter was thus recog- 
nised, but practically the marginal references of the 
A. V. of 1G11 were somewhat scanty, most of those 
now printed having been added in later editions. (8 
and 9) State plan of translation. Each company of 
translators is to take its own books; each person to 
bring bis own corrections. The company to discuss 
them, and, having finished their work, to send it on 
to another company, and so on. (10) Provides for 
differences of opinion between two companies b}" refer- 
ring them to a general meeting. (11) Gives power, 
in cases of difficulty, to consult any scholars. (12) 
Invites suggestions from any quarter. (13) Names 
the directors of the work : Andrews, dean of West- 
minster; Barlow, dean of Chester; and the regius pro- 
fessors of Hebrew and Greek at both universities. (14) 
Names translations to be followed when they agree 
more with the original than the Bishops’ Bible, name- 
ly, Tyndale’s, Coverdale’s, Matthew’s, Whitchurch’s, 
(Cranmer's), and Geneva. (15) Authorizes universi- 
ties to appoint three or four overseers of the work. 

5. It is not known that any of the- correspondence 
connected with this work, or any minute of the meet- 
ings for conference, is still extant. Nothing is more 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


218 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


striking thnn the silence with which the version that 
was to be the inheritance of the English people for at 
least two centuries and a half was ushered into the 
world. Here and there we get glimpses of scholars 
coming from their country livings to their old college 
haunts to work diligently at the task assigned them 
(Peck. Desiderata Curiosa, ii, 87). We see the meet- 
ings of translators, one man reading the chapter which . 
he has been at work on, while the others listen, with I 
the original, or Latin, or German, or Italian, or Span- 
ish versions in their hands (Selden, Table Talk). AN e 
inav represent to ourselves the differences of opinion, 
settled by the casting vote of the “odd man,” or by 
t lie strong overbearing temper of a man like Bancroft, 
the minority comforting themselves with the thought 
that it was no new thing for the truth to be outvoted 
(Gell, Easay towards Amendment of last English transl. 
of Bible, p. 321). Dogmatic interests were in some 
cases allowed to bias the translation; and the Calvin- 
ism of one party, the prelatic views of another, were 
both represented at the expense of accuracy (Gell, 
1. c.). The following passages are those commonly 
referred to in support of this charge : (1.) The render- 
ing “such as should be saved,” in Acts ii, 47. (2.) 

The insertion of the words “any man” in Heb. x, 38 
(“the just shall live bv faith, but if any man draw 
back,” etc.), to avoid an inference unfavorable to the 
doctrine of Pinal Perseverance, (3.) The use of “bish- 
opric,” in Acts i, 20, of “oversight,” in 1 Pet. v, 2, 
of “bishop,” in 1 Tim. iii, 1, etc., and “overseers,” 
in Acts xx, 28, in order to avoid the identification of 
bishops and elders. (4.) The chapter-heading of Psa. 
cxlix in 1(511 (since altered), “The prophet exhorteth 
to praise God for that power which he hath given the 
Church to bind the consciences of men.” Blunt {Du- 
ties of a Parish Priest , lect. ii) appears, in this ques- 
tion, on the side of the prosecution, Trench {On the A. 
V. ef the N. T. chap, x) on that of the defence. The 
charge of an undue bias against Pome in 1 Cor. xi, 27 ; 
Gal. v, G; Heb. xiii, 4, is one on which an acquittal 
may be pronounced with little or no hesitation. 

6. For three years the work went on, the separate 
companies comparing notes as directed. When the 
work drew towards its completion, it was necessary to 
place it under the care of a select few. Two from 
each of the three groups were accordingly selected, 
and the six met in London to superinted the publica- 
tion. Now, for the first time, we find any more defi- 
nite remuneration than the shadowy promise held out 
in the king's letter of a share in the 1000 marks which 
deans and chapters would not contribute. The matter 
had now reached its business stage, and the Company 
of Stationers thought it expedient to give the six edi- 
tors thirty pounds each, in weekly payments, for their 
nine months’ labor. The final correction, and the task 
of writing the arguments of the several books, was 
given to llilson, bishop of Winchester, and I>r. Miles 
Smith, the latter of whom also wrote the Dedication 
and the Preface. Of these two documents, the first is 
unfortunately familiar enough to us, and is chiefly con- 
spicuous for its servile adulation. James I is “that 
sanctified person,” “enriched with singular and ex- 
traordinary graces,” that had appeared “as the sun in 
his strength.” To him they appeal against the judg- 
ment of those whom they describe, in somewhat peev- 
ish accents, as “ popish persons or self-conceited breth- 
ren.” The Preface to the Leader is more interesting, 
as throwing light upon the principles on which the 
translators acted. They “never thought that they 
should need to make a new translation, nor yet to 
make of a bad one a good one.” “Their endeavor 
was to make n good one better, or, out of many good 
ones, one principal good one.” They claim credit for 
steering a middle course between the Puritans who 
“left the old ecclesiastical words,” and the obscurity 
of the Papists “retaining foreign words of purpose to 
darken tlie sense.” They vindicate the practice, in 


which they indulge very freely, of translating one 
word in the original by several English words, partly 
on the intelligible ground that it is not always possible 
to find one word that will express all the meanings of 
the Greek or Hebrew, partly on the somewhat childish 
plea that it would be unfair to choose some words for 
the high honor of being the channels of God’s truth, 

I and to pass over others as unworthy. 

I 7. The version thus published did not all at once 
j supersede those already in possession. The fact that 
I five editions were published in three years shows that 
there was a good demand. But the Bishops’ Bible 
I probably remained in many churches (Andrews takes 
liis texts from it in preaching before the king as late 
as 1G21), and the popularity of the Geneva version is 
shown by not less than thirteen reprints, in whole or 
1 in part, between 1611 and 1617. It is not easy to as- 
j certain the impression which the A. V. made at the 
time of its appearance. Probably, as in most like 
cases, it was far less for good or evil than friends or 
foes expected. The Puritans, and the religious por- 
tion of the middle classes generally, missed the notes 
of the Geneva hook (Puller, Church History , x, 50, 51). 
The Romanists spoke, as usual, of the unsettling effect 
of these frequent changes, and of the marginal read- 
ings as leaving men in doubt what was the truth of 
Scripture. Whitaker’s answer, by anticipation, to this 
charge is wo.rth quoting: “No inconvenience will fol- 
low if interpretations or versions of Scripture, when 
they have become obsolete or ceased to be intelligible, 
may be afterwards changed or corrected” {Dissert, on 
Script, p. 232, Parker Soc. ed.). The wiser divines of 
the English Church had not then learned to raise the 
j cry of finality. One frantic cry was heard from Hugh 
Broughton, the rejected (I Paris, p. 601), who “would 
rather be torn in pieces by wild horses than impose 
1 such a version on the poor churches of England.” 
Selden, a few years later, gives a calmer and more 
favorable judgment. It is “the best of all transla- 
I tions as giving the true sense of the original.” This, 
however, is qualified by the remark that “no book in 
the world is translated as the Bible is, word for word, 
with no regard to the difference of idioms. This is 
well enough so long as scholars have to do with it., 
but when it comes among the common people. Lord! 
what gear do they make of it!” {Table Talk). The 
feeling of which this was the expression led, even in 
the midst of the agitations of the Commonwealth, to 
proposals for another revision, which, after being 
brought forward in the Grand Committee of Religion 
in the House of Commons in January, 1656, was re- 
ferred to a sub-committee, acting under AYhitelocke, 
with power to consult divines and report. Conferen- 
ces were accordingly held frequently at AATntelocke’s 
house, at which wc find, mingled with less illustrious 
names, those of Walton and Cmlworth. Nothing, 
however, came of it (Whitelockc, Memorials , p. 5G4; 
Collier, Ch. I list, ii, 9). No report was ever made ; 
and with the Restoration the tide of conservative feel- 
ing, in this as in other things, checked all plans of 
further alteration. Many had ceased to care for the 
Bible at all. Those who did care were content with 
the Bible as it was. Only here and there was a voice 
raised, like R. Cell’s {ut sup.), declaring that it had 
defects, that it bore in some things the stamp of the 
dogmatism of a party (p. 321). 

8. The highest testimony of this period is that of 
Walton. From the editor of the Polyglot, t lie few 
words “ inter omnes cminet” meant a good deal 
! {Pref). With the reign of Anne the tide of glowing 
panegyric sot in. It would he easy to put together a 
long catena of praises stretching from that time to the 
present. With many, of course, this has been only the 
routine repetition, of a traditional boast. “Our un- 
rivalled Translation” and “ our incomparable Litur- 
gy” have been equally phrases of course. But there 
i have been witnesses of a far higher weight. In m*o- 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


210 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


portion as the English of the 18th century was infect- 
ed with a Latinized or Gallicized style, did those who 
had a purer taste look with reverence to the strength 
and purity of a better time as represented in the A. V. 
Thus Addison dwells on its ennobling the coldness of 
modern languages with the glowing phrases of He- 
brew {< Spectator , No. 405), and Swift confesses that 
“the translators of the Bible were masters of an Eng- 
lish style far fitter for that work than any we see in 
our present writings” (. Letter to Lord Oxford'). Each 
half century has naturally added to the prestige of 
these merits. The language of the A. Y. lias inter- 
twined itself with the controversies, the devotion, the 
literature of the English people. It has gone, wher- 
ever they have gone, over the face of the whole earth. 
The most solemn and tender of individual memories 
are, for the most part, associated with it. Men leav- 
ing the Church of England for the Church of Rome 
turn regretfully with a yearning look at that noble 
“well of English nndefiled” which they are about to 
exchange for the uncouth monstrosities of Rheims and 
Douay. In this case, too, as in so many others, the 
position of the A. V. has been strengthened, less by the 
skill of its defenders than by the weakness of its as- 
sailants. While from time to time scholars and di- 
vines (Lowtli, Newcome, Waterland, Trench, Ellicott) 
have admitted the necessity of a revision, those who 
have attacked the present version and produced new 
ones have been, for the most part, men of narrow 
knowledge and defective taste (Tarver, Harwood, Bel- 
lamy, Conquest, Sawyer), just able to pick out a few 
obvious faults, and committing others equally glaring. 
They have also generally entered on the work of 
translating or revising the whole Bible single-handed. 
One memorable exception must not, however, be pass- 
ed over. Hallam {Lit. of Europe , iii, eh. ii, ad fin.) 
records a brief but emphatic protest against the “en- 
thusiastic praise” which has been lavished on this 
translation. “ It may, in the eyes of many, be a bet- 
ter English, but it is not the English of Daniel, or 
Raleigh, or Bacon. ... It abounds, in fact, espe- 
cially in the O. T., with obsolete phraseology, and 
■with single words long since abandoned, or retained 
only in provincial use.” The statement may, how- 
ever, in some sense be accepted as an encomium. If 
it had been altogether the English of the men of let- 
ters of James’s reign, would it have retained, as it lias 
done fur two centuries and a half, its hold on the 
mind, the memory, the affections of the English peo- 
ple ? 

Nil. Schemes for a Rendon. — 1. A notice of the at- 
tempts which have been made at various times to 
bring about a revision of the A. V., though necessarily 
brief and imperfect, may not be without its use for 
future laborers. The first half of the 18th century was 
not favorable for such a work. An almost solitary 
Essay for a New Translation by II. R. (Ross), 1702, at- 
tracted little or no notice (Todd, Life of Walton , i, 
131). A Greek Testament, with an English transla- 
tion, singularly vulgar and offensive, was published 
in 1729, of which extracts are given by Lewis {Hist, 
of Transl. eh. v). With the slight revival of learning 
among the scholars of the latter half of that period the 
subject was again mooted. Lowtli in a visitation ser- 
mon (1758), and Seeker in a Latin speech intended for 
Convocation (17G1), recommended it. Matt. Pil king- 
ton, in his Remarks (1759), and Dr. Thomas Brett, in 
an Essay on Ancient Versions of the Bible (17G0), dwelt 
on the importance of consulting them with reference 
to the O. T. as well as the N. T., with a view to a 
more accurate text than that of the Masoretic Hebrew, 
the former insisting also on the obsolete words which 
are scattered in the A.V., and giving a useful alpha- 
betic list of them. A folio new and literal translation 
Of the whole Bible by Anthony Purver, a Quaker 
(17G4), was a more ambitious attempt. lie dwells at 
some length on the “obsolete, uncouth, clownish” ex- 


pressions which disfigure the A. Y. He includes in 
his list such words as “joyous,” “solace,” “damsel,” 
“day-spring,” “bereaved,” “marvels,” “bondmen.” 
He substitutes “he hearkened to what he said” for 
“he hearkened to his voice;” “eat victuals” for “eat 
bread” (Gen. iii, 19); “was in favor with” for “found 
grace in the eyes of;” “-was angry” for “his wrath 
was kindled.” In spite of this defective taste, how- 
ever, the w r ork has considerable merit, is based upon a 
careful study of the original and of many of the best 
commentators, and may he contrasted favorably witli 
most of the single-handed translations that have fol- 
lowed. It was, at any rate, far above the depth of 
degradation and folly which was reached in Harwood's 
Literal Translation of the N. T. “with freedom, spirit, 
and elegance” (17G8). Here, again, a few samples are 
enough to show the character of the whole. “The 
young lady is not dead” (Mark v, 39). “A gentle- 
man of splendid family and opulent fortune had two 
sons” (Luke xv, 11). “3 he clergyman said, Yon 

have given him the only right and proper answer” 
(Mark xii, 32). “ We shall not pay the common debt 

of nature, but by a soft transition,” etc. (1 Cor. xv, 51). 

2. Biblical revision w as happily not left entirely in 
such hands as these. A translation by Y'orsley “ ac- 
cording to the present idiom of the English tongue” 
(1770) was, at least, less offensive. Durell {Preface to 
Job), Lowtli {Prof to Isaiah), Bla}’ney {Pref. to Jere- 
miah, 1784), were all strongly in favor of a new or re- 
vised translation. Durell dwells most on the arbitra- 
ry additions and omissions in the A.Y. of .lob, on the 
total absence in some cases of any intelligible mean- 
ing. Lowtli speaks chiefly of the faulty state of the 
text of the 0. T., and urges a correction of it, partly 
from various readings, partly from ancient versions, 
partly from conjecture. Each of the three contributed, 
in the best way, to the work which they had little ex- 
pectation of seeing accomplished, by laboring steadily 
at a single book, and committing it to the judgment of 
the Church. Kennieott’s labors in collecting MSS, 
of the O. T. issued in bis State of the present Hebrew 
Text (1753-59), and excited expectations that there 
might before long be something like a basis for a new 
version in a restored original. 

A more ambitious scheme was started by the Roman 
Catholic Dr. Geddes, in his Prospectus for a New Trans- 
lation (178G). His remarks on the history of English 
translations, his candid acknowledgment of the excel- 
lences of the A.Y., and especially of I’yndale’s work 
as pervading it, his critical notes on the true principles 
of translation, on the A.Y. as falling short of them, 
may still be read with interest. He too, like Lowth, 
finds fault with the superstitious adherence to the Ma- 
soretic text, with the undue deference to lexicons, and 
disregard of versions shown by our translators. Ihe 
proposal was well received hv many Biblical scholars, 
Lowth, Ivennieott, and Barrington being foremost 
among its patrons. The work was issued in parts, ac- 
cording to the terms of the Prospectus, but did not got 
further than 2 Chron. in 1792, when the death of the 
translator put a stop to it. Partly, perhaps, owing to 
its incompleteness, but still more from the extreme 
boldness of a Preface, anticipating the conclusions of 
a later criticism, Dr. Geddes’s translation fell rapidly 
into disfavor. A sermon by White (famous for his 
Bampton Lectures) in 1779, and two pamphlets by J. 
A. Svmonds, professor of modern history at Cam- 
bridge — the first on the Gospels and the Acts, in 1789 ; 
the second on the Epistles, in 1791 — though attacked 
in an Apology for the Liturgy and Church of England 
(1795), helped to keep the discussion from oblivion. 

3. The revision of the A.Y., like many other salu- 
tary reforms, w;is hindered by the French Revolution. 
In 1792, archbishop Newcome had published an elabo- 
rate defence of such a scheme, citing a host of author- 
ities (Doddridge, Wesley, Campbell, in addition to those 
already mentioned), and taking the same line as Lowth-, 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


220 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


Revised translations of the N. T. were published by 
'Wakefield in 1795, by Ncwcomc himself in 1790, by 
Scarlett in 1798. Campbell's version of the Gospels 
appeared in 1788, that of the Epistles by Macknight in 
1795. Out in 1796 the note of alarm was sounded. A 
feeble pamphlet by George Burges (Ixtter to the Lord 
Bishop of Ely) took the ground that “ the present pe- 
riod was unfit,” and from that time conservatism, pure 
and simple, was in the ascendant. To suggest that 
the A.Y. might be inaccurate was almost as bad as 
holding “ French principles.” There is a long inter- 
val before the question again comes into anything like 
prominence, and then there is a new school of critics 
in the Quarterly Renew and elsewhere, ready to do bat- 
tle vigorously for things as they are. The opening 
of the next campaign was an article in the Classical 
Journal (No. 86), by I)r. John Bellamy, proposing a 
new translation, followed soon afterwards by its publi- 
cation under the patronage of the prince regent (1818). 
The work was poor and unsatisfactory enough, and a 
tremendous battery was opened upon it in the Quar- 
terly Review (Nos. 37 and 38), as afterwards (No. 46) 
upon an unhappy critic, Sir J. B. Burges, who came 
forward with a pamphlet in its defence ( Reasons in fu- 
ror of a new Translation, 1819). The rash assertion 
of both Bellamy and Burges that the A.Y. had been 
made almost entirely from the Septuagint and Yul- 
gatc, and a general deficiency in all accurate scholar- 
ship, made them easy victims. The personal element 
of this controversy may well be passed over, but three 
less ephemeral works issued from it, which any future 
laborer in the same field will find worth consulting. 
Whitaker’s Histoncal and Critical Inquiry was chiefly 
an aide exposure of the exaggerated statement just 
mentioned. II. J. Todd, in his Vindication of the Au- 
thorized Translation (1819), entered more fully than 
any previous writer had done into the history of the 
A. Y., and gives many facts as to the liyes and qualifi- 
cations of the translators not easily to be met with 
elsewhere. The most masterly, however, of the man- 
ifestoes against all change was a pamphlet (Remarks 
on the Critical Principles, etc., Oxford, 18*20), published 
anonymously, but known to have been written bv 
archbishop Laurence. The strength of the argument 
lies chiefly in a skilful display of all the difficulties of 
the work, the impossibility of any satisfactory restora- 
tion of the Hebrew of the 0. T., or any settlement of 
the Greek of the N. T. ; the expediency, therefore, of 
adhering to a Textus rcceptus in both. See Various 
Readings. The argument, if conclusive, would un- 
settle our confidence in the text of the Holy Scrip- 
tures. Happily, more thorough critical research has 
fully refuted the archbishop’s positions. But the 
scholarship and acuteness with which the subject is 
treated make the book instructive, and any one enter- 
ing on the work of a translator ought at least to read 
it, that he may know what difficulties he has to face. 
About this period, also (1819), a new edition ofNew- 
eome’s version was published by Belsham and other 
Unitarian ministers, and, like Bellamy’s attempt on, 
the ( >. T., had the effect of stiffening the resistance of 
the great body of the clergy to all proposals for a re- 
vision. 

4. A correspondence between Herbert Marsh, bish- 
op of Peterborough, and the Rev. H.Walter, in 1828, is 
the next link in the chain. Marsh had spoken (Lec- 
tures on Biblical Criticism , p. 295) with some contempt 
of the A.Y. as based on Tyndale’s, Tvndale’s on Lu- 
ther's, and Luther’s on Minister's lexicon, which was 
itself based on the Yulgate. There was, therefore, on 
this view*, no real translation from the Hebrew* in any 
one of these. But it is evident that the Christian He- 
braists of the period of the Reformation depended 
quite as much on the traditional learning of their Jcw- 
ish teachers, often erroneous indeed, as on the earlier 
tradition preserved in the Latin Yulgate, and that 
they followed, as far as they* were able, the Masoretic 


punctuation, a much surer guide than the ancient ver* 
sions, or the later rabbinic interpretation. 

5. The last five-and-twenty years have seen the 
question of a revision from time to time gaining fresh 
prominence. If men of second-rate power have some- 
times thrown it back by meddling with it in wrong 
ways, others, able scholars and sound theologians, 
have admitted its necessity and helped it forward by 
their work. Dr. Conquest’s Bible, with “ 20, COO emen- 
dations” (1841), has not commanded the respect of 
critics, and is almost self-condemned by the silly os- 
tentation of its title. The motions which have from 
time to time been made in the House of Commons by 
Mr. Heywood have borne little fruit beyond the dis- 
play of feeble liberalism, and yet feebler conservatism, 
by which such debates are, for the most part, charac- 
terized ; nor have the discussions in Convocation, 
though opened by a scholar of high repute (professor 
Sehvyn), been much more productive. Dr. Beard’s 
essay, A revised English Bible the Want of the Church 
(1857), though tending to overstate the defects of the 
A. V., is yet valuable as containing much information, 
and representing the opinions of the more learned 
Nonconformists. Far more important, every way, 
both as virtually an authority in favor of revision and 
as contributing largely to it, arc professor Scliole- 
ficld’s Hints for an improved Translation of the X. T. 
(1832). In his second edition, indeed, he disclaims 
any wish for a new* translation, but the. principle which 
he lays down clearly and truly in his preface, that if 
there is “any adventitious difficult}* resulting from a 
defective translation, then it is at the same time an 
act of charity and of duty to clear away the difficulty 
as much as possible," leads legitimately to at least a 
revision ; and this conclusion Mr. Sehvyn, in the last 
edition of the Hints (1857), has deliberately adopted. 
To bishop Ellicott also belongs the credit of having 
spoken at once boldly and wisely on this matter. 
Putting the question whether it would be right to join 
those who oppose all revision, his answer is. “ God for- 
bid. ... It is in vain to cheat our own souls with the 
thought that these errors (in A. Y.) are either insig- 
nificant or imaginary. There are errors, there are 
inaccuracies, there are misconceptions, there are ob- 
scurities . . . and that man who, after being in any 
degree satisfied of this, permits himself to lean to the 
counsels of a timid or popular obstructiveness, or who, 
intellectually unable to test the truth of those allega- 
tions, nevertheless permits himself to denounce or 
deny them, will . . . have to sustain the tremendous 
charge of having dealt deceitfully with the inviolable 
word of God” (Pref. to Pastoral Epistles'). The trans- 
lations appended by Dr. Ellicott to his editions of 
Paul’s epistles proceed on t lie true principle of alter- 
ing the A.Y. “only where it appears to be incorrect, 
inexact, insufficient, or obscure," uniting a profound 
reverence for the older translators with a hold truth- 
fulness in judging of their work. The copious colla- 
tion of all the earlier English versions makes this part 
of his book especially interesting and valuable. Dr. 
Trench (On the A .V. of the X. T., 1858), in like man- 
ner, states his conviction that “a revision ought to 
come,” though as yet, he thinks, “the Greek and the 
English necessary to bring it to a successful issue are 
alike wanting” (p. 3). The work itself, it need hard- 
ly be said, is the fullest contradiction possible of this 
somewhat despondent statement, and supplies a good 
store of materials for use w hen the revision actually 
comes. The Revision of the A . V. by fire Clergymen 
(Dr. Barrow*, Dr. Moberly, dean Alford, Mr. Humphry, 
and Dr. Ellicott) represents the same school of conser- 
vative progress, has the merit of adhering to the clear, 
pure English of the A. Y., and does not deserve the 
censure which Dr. Beard passes on it as “promising 
little and performing less.” As yet, this series in- 
cludes only the Gospel of John, and the epistles to the 
Romans and Corinthians. The publications of the 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


221 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


American Bible Union are signs that there also the I 
same want has been felt. The translations given re- 
spectively by Alford, Stanley', Jowett, and Conybeare 
and Howson, in their respective commentaries, are in 
like manner at once admissions of the necessity of the 
work and contributions towards it. A1 r. Sharpe (1840) 
and Mr. Highton (18G2) have ventured on the wider 
work of translations of the entire N. T. Mr. Sawyer 
(1858) has done the same, and proposes to continue 
the task over the whole Bible ; but he lacks both the 
scholarship and the judgment necessary. Mr. Cookes- 
lev has published the Gospel of Matthew as Part I of 
a like undertaking. It might almost seem as if at 
last there was something like a consensus of scholars 
and divines on this question. That assumption would, 
however, be too hasty. Partly the vis inerticc, which, 
in a large body like the clergy of the Church, is al- 
ways great, partly the fear of ulterior consequences, 
partly also the indifference of the majority of the laity, 
would probably, at the present moment, give at least 
a numerical majority to the opponents of a revision. 
"Writers on this side are naturally less numerous, but 
the feeling of conservatism, pure and simple, has found 
utterance in four men representing different sections, 
and of different calibre — Mr. Scrivener (Supp. to A. 
Eng. Ver. of X. 7\), Dr. M‘Caul ( Reasons for holding 
fast the Authorized English Version ), r. C. S. Malan 
(.1 Vindication , etc.), and Dr. Camming ( Revision and 
Translation ). A high American authority, Mr. Geo. 
P. Marsh, may also be referred to as throwing the 
weight of his judgment into the scale against any re- 
vision at the present moment ( Lectures on the English 
Language , lect. xxviii). 

XIII. Present State of the Question. — 1. To take an 
accurate estimate of the extent to which the A. Y. re- 
quires revision would call for nothing less than an ex- 
amination of each single book, and would therefore 
involve an amount of detail incompatible with our 
present limits. To give a few instances only would 
practically fix attention on a part only of the evidence, 
and so would lead to a false rather than a true esti- 
mate. No attempt, therefore, will be made to bring 
together individual passages as needing correction. 
A few remarks on the chief questions which must 
necessarily come before those who undertake a revi- 
sion will not, perhaps, be out of place. Examples, 
classified under corresponding heads, will be found in 
the book by Dr. Trench already mentioned, and, scat- 
tered in the form of annotations, in that of professor 
Scholefield. 

2. The translation of the N. T. is from a text con- 
fessedly imperfect. "What editions were used is a 
matter of conjecture ; most probably one of those pub- 
lished with a Latin version by lleza between 15G5 and 
1598, and agreeing substantially with the Textus re- 
ceptus of 1G33. It is clear, oil principle, that no revi- 
sion ought to ignore the results of the textual criti- 
cism of the last hundred years. To shrink from no- 
ticing any variation, to go on printing as the inspired 
Word that which there is a preponderant reason for 
believing to be an interpolation or a mistake, is neither 
honest or reverential. To do so for the sake of great- 
er edification is simply to offer to God the unclean sac- 
rifice of a lie. The authority of the A. V. is, at any 
rate, in favor of the practice of not suppressing facts. 
In Matt, i, 13; xxvi, 2G; Luke xvii, 3G; John viii, 
6; Acts xiii, 18; Ephes. vi, 9; Heb. ii, 4; James ii, 
38; 1 John ii, 23; 1 l’eter ii, 21; 2 Peter ii, 11, 18; 

2 John, 8, different readings are given in the margin, 
or, as in 1 John ii, 23, indicated by a different type. 
In earlier versions, as has been mentioned, 1 John v, 

7 was printed in smaller letters. The degree to which 
this should be done will, of course, require discern- 
ment. An apparatus like that in Tisehendorf or Al- 
ford would obviously be out of place. Probably the 
useful Greek Testament edited by Mr. Scrivener might 
serve as an example of a middle course. 


3. Still less had been done at the commencement of 
the 17th century for the text of the O. T. The Jew- 
ish teachers, from whom Protestant divines derived 
their knowledge, had given currency to the belief that 
in the Masoretie text were contained the ipsissima 
verba of revelation, free from all risks of error, from all 
casualties of transcription. The conventional phrases, 
“the authentic Hebrew,” “the Hebrew verity,” were 
the expression of this undiscerning reverence. They 
refused to apply the same rules of judgment here which 
they applied to the text of the N. T. They assumed 
that the Masorites were infallible, and were reluctant 
to acknowledge that there had been any variations 
since. Even "Walton did not escape being attacked as 
unsound by the great Puritan divine, Dr. John Owen, 
for having called attention to the fact of discrepancies 
(Proleg. eh. vi). The materials for a revised text are, 
of course, scantier than with the N. T. ; but the labors 
of Kennicott, De llossi, J. H. Michaelis, and Davidson 
have not been fruitless, and here, as there, the older 
versions must be admitted as at least evidence of va- 
riations which once existed, but which M'ere suppressed 
by the rigorous uniformity of the later rabbis. Con- 
jectural emendations, such as Newcome, Lowtli, and 
Ewald have so freely suggested, ought to be ventured 
on in such places only as are quite unintelligible with- 
out them. See Criticism, Biblical. 

4. All scholars worthy of the name are now agreed 
that as little change as possible should be made in the 
language of the A. Y. Happily there is little risk of 
an emasculated elegance such as might have infected 
a new r version in the last century. The very fact of 
the admiration felt for the A. Y., and the general re- 
vival of a taste for the literature of the Elizabethan 
period, are safeguards against any like tampering now. 
Some words, however, absolutely need change, as be- 
ing altogether obsolete ; others, more numerous, have 
been slowly passing into a different, often into a lower 
or a narrower meaning, and are therefore no longer 
what they once were, adequate renderings of the orig- 
inal. 

5. The self-imposed law of fairness, which led the 
A. Y. translators to admit as many English words as 
possible to the honor of representing one in the He- 
brew or Greek text, has, as might be expected, marred 
the perfection of their work. Sometimes the effect is 
simply the loss of the solemn emphasis of the repeti- 
tion of the same word; sometimes it is more serious, 
and affects the meaning. While it would be simple 
pedant ry to lay down unconditionally that but one 
and the same word should be used throughout for one 
in the original, there can be no doubt that such a lim- 
itation is the true principle to start with, and that in- 
stances to the contrary should be dealt with as excep- 
tional necessities. Side by side with this fault there 
is another just the opposite of it. One English word 
appears for several Greek or Hebrew words, and thus 
shades of meaning, often of importance to the right 
understanding of a passage, are lost sight of. Taken 
together, the two forms of error, which meet us in well- 
nigh every chapter, make the use of an English Con- 
cordance absolutely misleading. Technical terms es- 
pecially should be represented in as exact and uniform 
a manner as possible. 

G. Grammatical inaccuracy must be noted as a de- 
fect pervading, more or less, the whole extent of the 
present version of the N. T. Instances will be found 
in abundance in Trench and Scholefield ( passim ), and 
in any of the better Commentaries. Such Gallicisms 
as “I am come,” “Babylon is fallen,” etc., to say 
nothing of outright French words, e. g. “ bruit” for 
noise (Xali. iii, 19), have often escaped detection. The 
true force of tenses, cases, prepositions, articles, is 
continually lost, sometimes at the cost of the finer 
shades which give vividness and emphasis, but some- 
times also entailing more serious errors. In justice to 
the translators of the N. T., it must be said that, situ- 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


222 


ENGLISH VERSIONS 


ated as they were, such errors were almost inevitable. 
They learned Greek through the medium of Latin. 
Lexicons and grammars were alike in the universal 
language of scholars; and that language was poorer 
and less intleetcd than the Greek, and failed utterly 
to represent, c. g. the force of its article, or the differ- 
ence of its aorist and perfect tenses. Such books of 
this nature as were used by the translators were neces- 
sarily based upon a far scantier induction, and were 
therefore more meagre and inaccurate than those 
which have been the fruits of the labors of later schol- 
ars. Ueccnt scholarship may in many things fall 
short of that of an earlier time, but the introduction 
of Greek lexicons and grammars in English has been 
beyond all doubt a change for the better. 

7. The lield of the O. T. has been far less adequately 
worked than that of the N. T., and Hebrew scholar- 
ship has made far less progress than Greek. Rela- 
tively, indeed, there seems good ground for believing 
that Hebrew was more studied in the early part of the 
17th century than it is now. It was newer and more 
popular. The reverence which men felt for the per- 
fection of the “ Hebrew' verity” made them willing to 
labor to learn a language which they looked upon as 
lialf-divine. But here, also, there was the same source 
of error. The early Hebrew' lexicons represented part- 
ly, it is true, a Jewish tradition, but partly also w*ere 
based upon the Vulgate (bishop Marsh, Lectures , ii, 
App. 61). The forms of cognate Shemitic languages 
had not been applied as a means for ascertaining the 
precise value of Hebrew' words. The grammars, also 
in Latin, were defective. Little as Hebrew' professors 
have, for the most part, done in the way of exegesis, 
any good commentary on the 0. T. will show that here 
also there are errors as serious as in the N. T. In one 
memorable case, the inattention, real or apparent, of 
the translators to the force of the Iliphil form of the 
verb (Lev. iv, 12) has led to a serious attack on the 
truthfulness of the whole narrative of the Pentateuch 
(Colcnso, Pentateuch critically Examined, pt. i, ch. vii). 

8. The poetical character of many portions of the 
O. T. is wholly obscured by the arrangement of the A. 
V., and, indeed, its authors and editors seem to have 
ignored the poetical element altogether. This is a de- 
fect of very great importance, and should be remedied 
by a proper distribution of the clauses according to the 
licb, laws of parallelism (rp v.), as well as by a more 
careful observance of that system of transposition of 
the terms of each hemistich that is characteristic of 
all poetry. 

9. The. division into chapters and verses is a matter 
that ought not to be passed over in any future revis- 
ion. The former, it must be remembered, does not 
go further back than the 13th century. The latter, 
though answering, as far as the O. T. is concerned, to 
a long-standing Jewish arrangement, depends, in the 
N. T., upon the work of Robert Stephens. Neither in 
the (). T. nor in the N. T. did the verse-division ap- 
pear in any earlier edition than that of Geneva. The 
inconveniences of changing both are probably too 
great to be risked. The habit of referring to chapter 
and verse is too deeply rooted to be got rid of. Yet 
the division, as it is, is not seldom artificial, and some- 
times is absolutely misleading. No one would think 
of printing any other book, in prose or poetry, in short 
clauses like the verses of our Bibles, and the tendency 
of such a division is to give a broken and discontinu- 
ous knowledge, to make men good textuaries but bad 
divines. An arrangement like that of the paragraph 
Bibles of our own time, with the verse and chapter di- 
visions relegated to the margin, ought to form part of 
any authoritative revision. 

10. ( )ther points of detail remain to be noticed brief- 
ly : (1.) The chapter-headings of the A.Y. often go be- 
yond their proper province. If it is intended to give 
an authoritative commentary to the lay reader, let it 
be done thoroughly. But if that attempt is abandon- 


ed, as it was deliberately in 1611, then for the chapter- 
headings to enter, as they do, upon the work of inter- 
pretation, giving, as in Canticles, Psalms, and Proph- 
ets, passim, mystical meanings, is simply an inconsist- 
ency. What should be a mere table of contents be- 
comes a gloss upon the text. (2.) The use of italics in 
printing the A.Y., if of advantage in point of minute 
criticism, is at least open to some risks. At first they 
seem an honest confession on the part of the transla- 
tors of what is or is not in the original. On the other 
hand, they tempt to a loose translation. Few' writers 
would think it necessary to use them in translating 
other hooks. If the w ords do not do more than repre- 
sent the sense of the original, then there is no reason 
for treating them as if they -were added at the discre- 
tion of the translators. If the}' go beyond that, they 
are of the nature of a gloss, altering the force of the 
original, and have no right to be there at all, wdiile the 
fact that they appear as additions frees the translator 
from the sense of responsibility. (3.) Good as the 
principle of marginal references is, the margins of the 
A.V., as now' printed, arc somewhat inconveniently 
crow'ded, and the references, being often merely ver- 
bal, tend to defeat their own purpose, and to make the 
reader weary of referring. They need, accordingly, a 
careful sifting; and though it would not be desirable 
to go back to the scanty number of the original edi- 
tion of 1611, something intermediate between that and 
the present overabundance 'would be an improvement. 
(4.) Marginal readings, on the other hand, indicating 
variations in the text, or differences in the judgment 
of translators, might be profitably increased in num- 
ber. The results of the labors of scholars would thus 
be placed within the reach of all intelligent readers, 
and so many difficulties and stumbling-blocks might 
be removed. 

In all these points there lias been, to a much larger 
extent than is commonly known, a W’ork of unauthor- 
ized revision. Neither italics, nor references, nor 
readings, nor chapter-headings, nor, it may he added, 
punctuation, are the same now as they w’ere in the A. 
V. of 1611. The chief alterations appear to have been 
made first in 1083, and afterwards in 1769, by Dr. 
Blavney, under the sanction of the Oxford delegates 
of the press {Gentleman s Magazine, Nov. 1789). A 
like work was done about the same time by I)r. Paris 
at Cambridge. There had, however, been some changer 
previously. The edition of 1638, in particular, show's 
considerable augmentations in the italics (Turton, 
Text of the English Bible , 1833, p. 91, 126). To Blay- 
ney also we ow r e most of the notes on weights and 
measures, and coins, and the explanation, where the 
text seems to require it, of Hebrew' proper names. 
The whole question of the use of italics is discussed 
elaborately by Turton in the work just mentioned. 
The late issues of the American Bible Union (q. v.) 
have, too uniformly perhaps, rejected this mode of dis- 
tinction ; discarding it on the ground that, if the ital- 
icized words are not necessary to the sense, they have 
no business there; if necessary, then the reader is mis- 
led b}' marking them as though they were not. 

11. What has been said will serve to show at once 
to what extent a new' revision is required, and what 
are the chief difficulties to be encountered. The work, 
it is believed, ought not to be delayed much longer. 
Names of men competent to undertake the work, as 
far as the N. T. is concerned, will occur to every one ; 
and if such alterations only were to he introduced as 
commanded the assent of at least tw'o thirds of a cho- 
sen body of twenty or thirty scholars, while a place in 
the margin w r as given to such renderings only as w’ere 
adopted by at least one third, there would be, it is be- 
lieved, at onec a great change for the better, and with- 
out anv shock to the feelings or even the prejudices of 
the great mass of readers. Men fit to undertake the 
work of revising the translation of the O. T. are con- 
fessedly fewer, and, for the most part, occupied in 


ENGRAVE 


223 


ENMITY 


other things. The knowledge and the power, How- 
ever, are there, though in less measure; and, even 
though the will be for the time absent, a summons to 
enter on the task from those whose authority they are 
bound to respect, would, we cannot doubt, be listened 
to. It might have the result of directing to their prop- 
er task, and to a fruitful issue, energies which are too 
often withdrawn to ephemeral and unprofitable con- 
troversies. As the revised Bible would be for the use 
of English-speaking people, the men appointed for the 
purpose ought not to be taken exclusively from any 
one Church, and the learning of all denominations 
should at least be fairly represented. The changes 
recommended by such a body of men, under condi- 
tions such as those suggested, might safely be allowed 
to circulate experimentally for two or three years. 
When they had stood that trial, they might, without 
risk, be printed in the new Authorized Version. Such 
a work would unite reverence for the past with duty 
towards the future. In undertaking it we should be 
not slighting the translators on whose labors we have 
entered, hut following in their footsteps. It is the 
wisdom of the Church to bring out of its treasures 
things new and old. 

XIV. Literature. — In addition to the works cited 
above, see especially Johnson’s Account of the several 
English Trans, of the Bible (Lond. 1730, 8vo ; reprinted 
in Bp. Watson’s Theolog. Tracts ); Bp. Marsh’s 1 list, of 
the Translations which have been made of the Scriptures , 
from the earliest to the present Age (Lond, 1812, 8vo); 
Lewis’s History of the principal Translations of the Bi- 
ble (3d ed. London, 1818, 8vo) ; Newcome’s Historical 
View of the English Biblical Translations (Dublin, 1792, 
8vo) ; Cotton’s List of Editions of the Bible (2d ed. Ox- 
ford, 1852, 8vo); Walter's Letter on the Independence 
of the Authorized Version of the Bible (Lond. 1823, 8vo) ; 
Todd’s Vindication of our Authorized Translation , etc. 
(Lond. 1819, 8vo); and especially Anderson’s Annals 
of the English Bible (Lond. 18-15, 2 vols. 8vo; in part 
reprinted, N. Y. 1856, 8vo); also Beard, Revised Eng- 
lish Bible the Want of the Church (new ed. Lond. I860, 
Svo) ; Mrs. Conant, History of the English Bible (X. Y. 
1856; Lond. 1859, Svo); Bp. Hinds, Scripture and the 
Authorized Version (Lond. 1853, J2mo) ; Malan, Vindi- 
cation of the Authorized Version of the Bible (London, 
1856, 8vo) ; Anon. Renderings of the principal English 
Translations of the Bible (Lond. 1849, 4 to) ; Scholetield, 
Hints for an improved Translation of the New Testament 
(London, 1857, 12mo) ; Dewes, Plea for translating the 
Scriptures (Lond. 1866, 8vo) ; comp. Bibliotheca Sacra , 
April, 1858; Ch. of Eng. Quarterly , Oct. 1856; Chris- 
tian Review , April, 1857 ; Jour, of Sac. Lit. July, 1857. 
J uly, 1858 ; South. Presb. Review, Jan. 1858 ; Br. For. 
Evangelical Rev. July, 1857, Jan. 1858, Ap. 1858, Oct. 
1859, July, 1863; Prot. Episc. Quart. Rev. Jan. 1859; 
North Am. Rev. Jan. 1859 ; New Englander, Feb. 1859, 
May, 1859 ; United Presb. Quart. Rev. Jan. 1860 ; Free- 
will Bapt. Quart. Rev. July, 1863 ; Meth. Quart. Review, 
July, 1864; Jour. Sac. Lit. Apr. 1867. See Author- 
ized Version. 


• with the high-priest’s dress — the two onyx-stones, the 
‘ twelve jewels, and the mitre-plate having inscriptions 
I oil them (Exod. xxviii, 11, 21, 36). The previous no- 
tices of signets (Gen. xxxviii, 18; xli, 42) imply en- 
graving. The art was widely spread throughout the 
nations of antiquity {For. Quar. Rev. xxvi, 32 ; xxvii, 
40), particularly among the Egyptians (Diod. i, 78 ; 
Wilkinson, iii, 373), the ^Ethiopians (Her. vii, 69), and 
the Indians (Von Bolden, Indien, ii, 122). — Smith, s. v. 
See Graving. 

En-liad'dah (Hebrew Eyn Chaddali , iTjn 
swift fountain; Sept. ’Hi'acTd), a city on the border of 
the tribe of Issaehar, mentioned between Engannim 
and Betli-pazzez (Josh. xix,21). Van de Velde ( Nar- 
rative, i, 315) and Thomson {Land and Book, ii, 248) 
j would identify it with A in- Hand, on the western brow 
of Carmel, and about two miles from the sea ; but this 
| is out of the limits of the tribe of Issaehar. Its site is 
possibly to be sought in that of the modern village 
Ain-Mahil, not far N.E. of Nazareth (Robinson, Re- 
searches, iii, 209). 

En-hak'kore (Heb .Eyn hak-kore', KYI?!" 1 
fountain of the caller ; Sept. roi' hriKaXovgevov), 

a name given by Samson to the spring that burst forth 
in answer to his praj’er in a dell of Lchi, when he was 
exhausted w ith the slaughter of the Philistines (Judg. 
xv, 19). The word 'CPZ’C, maktesh' , which in the 
narrative denotes the u hollow place” (literally the 
“ mortar”) or socket in the jaw, and also that for the 
“jaw” itself, lechi, are both names of places. See 
Leiii. Van de Velde {Memoir, p. 343) endeavors to 
identify Lehi with Tell el-Lekiyeh , 4 miles N. of Beer- 
sheba, and En-hakkore with the large spring between 
the tell and Khewelfeh. But Samson’s adventures 
appear to have been confined to a narrow circle, and 
there is no ground for extending them to a distance of 
some 30 miles from Gaza, which Lekiyeh is, even in a 
straight line. It appears to have been the same place 
later known (Neb. xi, 29) as En-Rlwmon (q. v.). 

En-lia'rod (Heb. Eyn Charodf, ‘WH fV, fountain 
of Ilarod; Sept. Trip/t) ’Apioc), a spring in the vicinity 
of the tow n of Harod (Judg. vii, 1, where the name is 
translated “ w r ell of Harod”). See Harod. 

En-ha'zor (Heb. Eyn Chatsor', 'fJ, fount- 

ain of Hazor , i. c. of the village ; Sept. ~r t yi) ’Ambit), a 
fortified city of the tribe of Naphtali, mentioned be- 
tween Edrei and Iron (Josh, xix, 37), but apparently 
different from Hazor (ver. 86). It has been identified 
by Schw’arz {Palest, p. 183) and Thomson {Land and 
Book, i, 515) with the Ain-Hazur not far N.W. of Tell- 
Hazur (between Rameh or Ramah and Yakuk or Huk- 
kok), which latter (being marked as a ruined site by 
Van de Velde, although Dr. Robinson, who visited it, 
denies that there are any traces of structures on the 
summit ; Later Researches , p. 81), w r as probably the lo- 
cation of the city itself. See Hazor. 

Enlightenment. See Illuminati. 


Engrave (nr.Q, pat hacl/ , to open, hence [in Piel] 
to carve or grave, whether on wood, gems, or stone ; 
thrice -“H, charash' , Exod. xxviii, 11 ; xxxv, 35 ; 
xxxviii, 23, elsewhere artificer in general ; kvTVTrbw, 
2 Cor. iii, 7). The latter term, £nn, so translated in 
the A.V., applies broadly to any artificer , whether in 
wood, stone, or metal : to restrict it to the engraver in 
Exod. xxxv, 35; xxxviii, 23, is improper: a similar 
latitude must be given to the other term HP S3, w r hich 
expresses the operation of the artificer; in Zeeh. iii, 9, 
ordinary stone-cutting is evidently intended. The 
specific description of an engraver w r as 'C'nn 

(Exod. xxviii, 11), lit. a stone-graver, and his chief 
business was cutting names or devices on rings and 
seals; the only notices of engraving are in connection 


En-misll'pat (Heb. Eyn Misltpat', - Y?, 
fountain of judgment ; Sept. >) wij-yi} ri)c Kiftenmc). the 
earlier name (Gen. xiv, 7) for Kadesh (q. v.). in the 
borders of Idumaea (comp. Nnm. xx, 13, 14). Accord- 
ing to Schwarz {Palest, p. 214\ there is found, about 10 
miles south of Petra, a large spring, still called by the 
Bedouins A in el-Sedaka, or spring of justice, which he 
j holds to be the same as the ancient En-mishpat ; but 
this w’ould he very far south for the required locality 
[see Exope] ; and the spot he names is doubtless the 
A in el-Usdakah marked on Robinson’s Map as identi- 
cal with the Zodocatha of the Roman post-routes (Re- 
land, Palest, p. 280). 

Enmity: “opposition; very bitter, deep-rooted, 

I irreconcilable hatred and variance. Such a constant 
I enmity there is between the followers of Christ and 


ENNODIUS 


224 


ENOCH 


Satan ; nay, there is some such enmity between man- 
kind and some serpents (Gen. iii, 15). Friendship 
with this world, in its wicked members and lusts, is 
enmity with God — is opposed to the love of him, and 
amounts to an actual exerting of ourselves to dishonor 
and abuse him (.lames iv, 4 ; 1 John ii, 15, 16). The 
carnal mind, or minding of fleshly and sinful tilings, is 
enmity against God — is opposed to his nature and will 
in the highest degree, and, though it maybe removed, 
cannot be reconciled to him, nor he to it (Rom. viii, 7, 
8). The ceremonial law is called enmity: it marked 
God's enmity against sin by demanding atonement 
for it; it occasioned men's enmity against God by its 
burdensome services, and was an accidental source of 
standing variance between Jews and Gentiles : or per- 
haps the minify here meant is the state of variance be- 
tween God and men, whereby he justly loathed and 
hated them as sinful, and condemned them to punish- 
ment ; and they wickedly hated him for his holy ex- 
cellence, retributive justice, and sovereign goodness : 
both are slain and abolished by the death of Christ 
(Epli. ii, 15, 10).” — Brown, Dictionary of the Bible , s. v. 

Ennodius, Magnus Felix, one of the Latin fa- 
thers, was born about A.D. 473, at Arles (according to 
others at Milan), of a noble Gallic family, having such 
names as Faustus and Boethius on its registers. His 
parents dying early, he was sent, on the invasion of the 
Visigoths, to an aunt in Milan, who took good care of 
his education. Soon after her death (A.D. 489) he 
married a rich wife, and lived very freely until a se- 
vere illness brought him to reflection ; and on his res- 
toration he was ordained deacon, and his wife became 
a nun. (One account says that he had been ordained 
deacon before, and lived a bad life as deacon.) In 494 
he accompanied Epiphanius of Pavia on a mission to 
Burgundy to ransom some Italian prisoners. In 496 
he went to Rome, where lie soon gained great repu- 
tation. In 502 he wrote in vindication of pope Sym- 
rnaehus against his rival, pope Laurentius. In this 
defence he first asserted that the bishop of Rome is 
subject to no earthly tribunal (Gieseler, i, § 115). He 
was the first to give to the bishop of Rome exclusively 
the name of “ Papa” (pope), and was, in general, very 
eager to enlarge the papal authority. After lie had 
been chosen, about A.I). 511, to succeed Maximus as 
bishop of Pavia (Ticinum), he went, under direction of 
pope llormisdas, on two missions (515 and 517) to the 
emperor Anastasias with reference to the union be- 
tween the Eastern and Western churches. Both mis- 
sions failed. Ennodius died at Pavia July 17, 521. 
Among his writings are, Epistolarum ad Dirersos lib. 
ix: — Lihellus adi\ eos , qui contra Synodum scribere prev- 
sumscrunt , containing the defence of Svmmachus named 
above : — Vita Epiphanii Ejdseopi : — 1 7 ta A ntomi Mona- 
chi Lirinensisr — Eucharist icon de vita sua, an autobiog- 
raphy : — Pa rone sis <liilascalica ad A mbrosium et Bea- 
tum : — Orationes: — Barmina. His writings were pub- 
lished in Basle, 1569, fob; Tournay, 1010; and by 
Sirmond (best ed.), Paris, 1011. They arc also in 
Migne, Patrol. Lot. vol. Ixiii. Ennodius wrote strong- 
ly in favor of free will, and has been therefore styled 
a Semipelagian. — Gave, Hist, Lit. (Geneva, 1720), i, 
322 ; Ceillier, Auteurs S arris (Paris, 18G1), x, 473 sq. ; 
Herzog, Beal-Encyklop. iv, G8 ; Wetzer uA Volte, Kirch. - 
Lex. iii, 595. 

Xj'noch (Heb. Chanok', initiated ; according 

to Philo, De poet. Caini , § 11, from “(H, with the suffix 
T ( — “in [tpprjvivtrai T \dptc cron], i. e. thy fa- 
vor ; Sept, and N. T. *Erojy, Josephus "Auwyoc, Yulg. 
J Enoch), the name of several men. 

1. T he eldest son of Cain (Gen. iv, 17), who called 
the city which he built after his name (Gen..iv, 18). 
B.C. post 4041. It. is there described as being east of 
Eden, in the land of Xod, to which Cain r'etired after 
the murder of his brother. See Nol>. Ewald (Gesch. 


1, 356, note) fancies that there is a reference to the 
Phrygian Iconium, in which city a legend of "AvvaKoc; 
was preserved, evidently derived from the biblical ac- 
count of the father of Methuselah (Stcph. Byz. s. v. 
Tfcoi'for; Suid. s. v. 'SdvraKoc). Other places have 
been identified with the site of Enoch with little prob- 
ability; c. g. Anuehta (Ptolemy, vi, 3, 5) in Susiana, 
the JJeniochi (Ptolemy, v, 9, 25; Strabo, xi, 492; 
Pliny, vi, 10. 12) in the Caucasus, etc. (Huetius, De 
Paradise , c. 17 ; Masse, Entdeckung , ii, 35 ; Gotter, De 
Henodiia nrbe , Jen. 1705 [of little value]; Sticht, De 
urbe I/anochia , Jen. 1727). 

2. Another antediluvian patriarch, the son of Jared 
aiul father of Methuselah (Gen. v, 21 sq. ; Luke iii, 
28: in 1 Chron. i, 3, the name is Anglicized “He- 
noch”). B.C. 3550-3185. He was born when Jared 
was 162 years old, and after the birth of his eldest son 
in his G5th year he lived 300 years. From the period 
of 365 years assigned to his life, Ewald (Isr. Gesch. i, 
356), with very little probability, regards him as “the 
god of the new year,” but the number may have been 
not without influence on the later traditions which as- 
signed to Enoch the discovery of the science of astron- 
omy (aorpoAoyro, Eupolemus ap. Euseb. Prap. Ev. ix, 
17, where he is identified with Atlas). After the birth 
of Methuselah it is said (Gen. v, 22-24) that Enoch 
“walked with God 300 years . . . and he was not; 
for God took him” (n^). The phrase “ walked with 
God” ( 3 “n’ 2 ^Frri< 'rjsnrlH) is elsewhere only used 
of Noah (Gen. vi, 9; comp. Gen. xvii, 1, etc.), and is 
to he explained of a prophetic life spent in immediate 
converse with the spiritual world (Book of Enoch, xii, 

2, u All his action was with the holy ones, and with the 
watchers during his life ”). There is no farther men- 
tion of Enoch in the O. T., but in Ecclesiasticus (xlix, 
14) he is brought forward as one of the peculiar glories 
(ovci dc tK-ioOi] oioq ’E.) of the Jews, for he was taken 
up (drtA:i<pQ?i, Alex. ptrerW?/) from the earth. “ He 
pleased the Lord and was translated [Vulg. into Para- 
dise], being a pattern of repentance” (Ecclits. xliv, 
14). In the Epistle to the Hebrews the spring and 
issue of Enoch’s life arc clearly marked. “By faith 
Enoch was translated (/uertrWif), that he should not 
see death . . . for before his translation (perdOcaie) 
he had this testimony, that he pleased God.” The 
contrast to this divine judgment is found in the con- 
strained words of Josephus : “ Enoch departed to the 
Deity (dvt\d>qij(Tt wpoq to Otlov), whence [the sacred 
writers] have not recorded his death” (J nt. i, 3, 4). In 
the Epistle of Jude (v, 14 ; comp. Enoch lx, 8) he is de- 
scribed as “ the seventh from Adam ;” and the number 
is probably noticed as conveying the idea of divine 
completion and rest (comp. August, c. Faust, xii, 14), 
while Enoch was himself a type of perfected human- 
ity, “a man raised to heaven by pleasing God, while 
angels fell to earth by transgression” (lremeus, iv, 16, 
2). Elijah was in like manner translated ; and thus 
was the doctrine of immortality palpably taught under 
the ancient dispensation. 

The biblical notices of Enoch were a fruitful source 
of speculation in later times. Some theologians dis- 
puted with suhtilty as to the place to which he was 
removed, whether it was to Paradise or to the immedi- 
ate presence of God (comp. Feuardentius, ad Iren, v, 
5), though others more wisely declined to discuss the 
question (Thilo, Cod. Apocr. X. T. p. 758). On other 
points there was greater unanimity. Both the Latin 
and Greek fathers commonly couple Euoch and Elijah 
as historic witnesses of the possibility of a resurrec- 
tion of the body and of a true human existence in 
glory (Iren, iv, 5, 1 ; Tertull. de Itesarr. Cam. p. 58; 
Jerome, c. Joan, i/icrosol. § 29, 32, p. 437, 440); and 
the voice of earlv ecclesiastical tradition is almost 
unanimous in regarding them as “the two witnesses” 
(Rev. xi, 3 sq.) who should f.dl before “the beast,” 
and afterwards be raised to heaven before the great 


ENOCH, BOOK OF 225 ENOCH, BOOK OF 


judgment (Hippol. Fragm. in Dan. xxii; de Antichr. 
xliii^ Cos mas Indie, p. 75, ap. Thilo, /card rr\v hcicX] - 
GictoTiKi)v irapctdotTiv Tertull. de Aninui , p. 59; Am- 
bros. in Psalm, xlv, 4 ; Evemg. Nicod. c. xxv, on which 
Thilo has almost exhausted the question, Cod. Apoc. 
N. T. p. 765 sq.). This belief removed a serious diffi- 
culty which was supposed to attach to their transla- 
tion^ for thus it was made clear that they would at 
last discharge the common debt of a sinful humanity, 
from which they were not exempted by their glorious 
removal from the earth (Tertull de Anima, 1. c. ; Au- 
gnst. Op. imp. c. Jvl. vi, 89). 3a later times Enoch 
was celebrated as the inventor of writing, arithmetic, 
and astronomy (Euseb. Prop. Ev. ix, 17). lie is said 
to have filled *300 books with the revelations which he 
received, and is commonly identified with Edris (i. e. 
the learned ), who is commemorated in the Koran (cap. 
19) as one “exalted [by God] to a high place” (comp. 
Sale, ad loc. ; Hottinger, llist. Orient, p. 30 sq.). Visions 
and prophecies were commonly ascribed to him, which 
he is said to have arranged in a book. This book was 
delivered to his son, and preserved by Noah in the 
ark. After the Flood it was made known to the world, 
and handed down from one generation to another (see 
Yuchasin , f. 134; Eusebius, Ifist. Eccles. vii, 32; Ce- 
dren. llist. p. 9 ; Barhebr. Ckron. p. 5). But these 
traditions were probably due to the apocryphal book 
which bears his name (comp. Fabric. Cod. Pseudep. F. 
T. i, 215 sq.). See below. Some (Buttm. Mythol. i, 
17G sq. ; Ewald, l. c.) have found a trace of the history 
of Enoch in the Phrygian legend of Annaeus ("Arva- 
Kog. Nch'i'cucoc), who was distinguished for his piety, 
lived 300 years, and predicted the deluge of Deuca- 
lion. — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s.v. See lleber, De pietate 
et fitis Enochi (Bamb. 1789) ; Bredenkamp, in Paulus, 
Memor. it, 152; Danz, in Meuschen’s N. T. Talm. p. 
722 ; Schmieder, Comment, in Gal. iii, 19 (Nurnb. 1826), 
p. 23; Buddei Hist. Eccles. V. T. i, 162; Drusius, De 
Henoch , in the Crit. Sacri , I, ii ; Pfeiffer, Decas select, 
exerc. p. 12; D’Herbelot, Biblioth. Or. i, 624; ltobert- 
son, The Prophet Enoch (bond. 1860); Pfaft* De raptu 
Henochi (Tiib. 1739) ; Hall, )Vo?'ks, xi, 185 ; Alexander, 
Hist. Eccles. i, 142; Calmet, Commcntai'y , viii, 10, 27 ; 
Hunter, Sacred Biog. p. 24 sq. ; Robinson, Script. Char. 
i; liitdge, Led. on Gen. i, 72 ; Evans, Script. Biog. iii, 
1 ; Kitto, Bible I Hast, i, 123; Bell, Enoch's ir«//r(Lond. 
1658); Heidegger, Hist. Patriarcharnm , i; Saurin, 
Disc, i, 65; Boston, Sermom *, i, 230 ; Doddridge, J I r orlc$, 
iii, 329 ; Slade, Sermons , ii, 447 ; Williams, Sermons , 
ii, 367. 

3. The third son of Midian, and grandson of Abra- 
ham by Keturah (Gen. xxv, 4, A. V. “ Hanoch 1 
Cliron. i, 33, “Henoch”). B.C. post 1988. 

4. The eldest son of Reuben (A.V. “ Hanoch,” Gen. 
xlvi, 9 ; Exod. vi, 14 ; 1 Chron. v, 3), from whom came 
“ the family of the Hanochites” (Ntun. xxvi, 5). B.C. 
1873. 

5. Tn 2 Esdr. vi, 49, 51, “ Enoch” stands in the Lat. 
(and Eng.) version for one of the two famous amphib- 
ious monsters, doubtless correctly Behemoth in the 
Ethiopic. 

ENOCH, BOOK OF, one of the most important re- 
mains of early apocalyptic literature. The interest 
that once attached to it has now partly subsided ; yet 
a document quoted, as is generally believed, by an in- 
spired apostle (Jude, ver. 14, 15), can never be wholly 
devoid of importance or utility in sacred literature. 
From its vigorous style and wide range of speculation, 
the book is well worthy of the attention which it re- 
ceived in the first ages, and recent investigations have 
still left many points for further inquiry. 

I. History of the Book . — The first trace of its exist- 
ence is generally found in the epistle of Jude (14, 15; 
comp. Enoch, i, 9), hut the words of the apostle leave 
it uncertain whether he derived his quotation from 
tradition ( 1 1 o 11 m a n n , & ch riftbeweis, i, 420) or from writ- 
111.— P 


ing {b7rpo(f)r)Tev<JEV .... *Ei noy As-yon'), though the 
wide spread of the book in the 2d centur}’’ seems al- 
most decisive in favor of the latter supposition. In 
several of the fathers mention is made of Enoch as the 
author, not only of a prophetic writing, but of various 
productions. Some such work appears to have been 
known to Justin {Apol. ii, 5), Ireureus {adv. Ilaer. iv, 
16, 2), and Anatolius (Euseb. II. E. vii, 32). Clement 
of Alexandria ( Eclog . p. 801) and Origen (yet comp. c. 
Cels, v, p. 267, ed. Speue.) both make use of it, and nu- 
merous references occur to the “wiiting,” books,” and 
“ words” of Enoch in the Testament of the XII Patri- 
archs (q. v.) — a document which Nitzsckhas shown to 
belong to the latter part of the 1st century or the be- 
ginning of the second, and which presents more or less 
resemblance to passages in the present book (Fabricii 
Cod. Pseudep. V. 7\ i, 161 sq. ; Gfrorer, Proph. Pseudep. 
273 sq.). Tertullian {De cultu fam. 5, 3; compare De 
Idol. 4) expressly quotes the book as one which was 
“not received by some, nor admitted into the Jewish 
canon” (in armarium Judaicum), hut defends it on ac- 
count of its reference to Christ (“legimus omnem 
scripturain mdificationi habilem divinitus inspirari”). 
Augustine {De Civ. xv, 23, 4) and an anonymous writ- 
er, whose work is printed with Jerome’s {Brev. in 
Psalm, cxxxii, 2; compare Hil. ad Psalm. 1. e.), were 
both acquainted with it; but from their time till the 
revival of letters it was known in the Western Church 
only by the quotation in Jude (Dillmann, Einl. 1 vi). 
In "the Eastern Church it was known some centuries 
later. In the 8th century, Georgius Synccllus, in a 
work entitled Chronographia , that reaches from Adam 
to Diocletian, made various extracts from “the first 
book of Enoch.” In the 9th century, Nicephorus, pa- 
triarch of Constantinople, at the conclusion of his Chro - 
nographice Compendium , in his list of canonical and un- 
canonical books, refers to the book of Enoch, and as- 
signs 4800 <rrt\oi as the extent of it. After this time 
little or no mention appears to have been made of the 
production until Scaliger printed the fragments of 
Syneellus regarding it, which he inserted in his notes 
to the Chronicus Canon of Eusebius. In consequence 
of such extracts, the hook of Enoch excited much at- 
tention and awakened great curiosity. At the begin- 
ning of the 17th century an idea prevailed that it ex- 
isted in an Ethiopic translation. A Capuchin monk 
from Egypt assured Peiresc that lie had seen the book 
in Ethiopic, a circumstance which excited the ardor 
of the scholar of Pisa so much that he never rested 
until he obtained the tract. But when Job Ludolph 
went afterwards to Paris to the Royal Library, he 
found it to be a fabulous and silly production. In 
consequence of this disappointment, the idea of recov- 
ering it in Ethiopic was abandoned. At length, in 
1773, Bruce brought home three copies of the book of 
Enoch from Abyssinia in MSS., containing the Ethio- 
pic translation complete. “ Amongst the articles,” he 
states, “ 1 consigned to the library at Paris was a very 
beautiful and magnificent copy of the prophecies of 
Enoch in large quarto. Another is amongst the books 
of Scripture which I brought home, standing immedi- 
ately before the book of Job, which is its proper place 
in the Abyssinian Canon ; and a third copy I have pre- 
sented to the Bodleian Library at Oxford by the hands 
of Dr. Douglas, bishop of Carlisle.” As soon as it was 
known in England that such a present had been made 
to the Royal Library at Paris, Dr.Woide, librarian of 
the British Museum, set out for France with letters 
from the secretary of state to the ambassador at that 
court, desiring him to assist the learned hearer in pro- 
curing access to the work. Dr. Woide accordingly 
transcribed it, and brought back with him the copy to 
England. The Parisian MS. was first publicly noticed 
by the eminent Orientalist De Sacy in 1800, who 
translated into Latin ch. i, ii, iii, iv-xvi ; also xxii and 
xxxi. These he also published in the Magasin Ency- 
clopedique (VI, i, 382 sq.). Mr. Murray, editor of 


ENOCH. BOOK OF 226 ENOCH. BOOK OF 


Bruce's Travels , gave some account of the book from 
the traveller’s own MS. The Ethiopic text, however, 
was not published till the edition of archbishop Lau- 
rence from the Bodleian MS. in 1838 ( Libri Enoch ver- 
sio yEthiopica . . . Oxon.). But in the interval Lau- 
rence published an English translation, with an intro- 
duction and notes, which passed through three editions 
(The Booh of Enoch , etc., by B. Laurence; Oxford, 
1821, 1833, 1838). Ihe translation of Laurence form- 
ed the basis of the German edition of Hoffmann (Das 
Bucli Henoch . . . A. E. Hoffmann, Jena, 1833-38); 
and Gfrdrer, in 1810, gave a Latin translation con- 
structed from the translations of Laurence and Hoff- 
mann (Prophetce veteres Pseudepigraphi . . . ed. A. F. 
Gfrdrer, Stuttgartiae, 1810). According to Angelo Mai, 
there is a 31 S. copy of the book of Enoch among the 
Ethiopic codices of the Vatican, which must have been 
brought into Europe earlier than Bruce’s MSS. In 
1831 I>r. Iluppell procured another 31S. of Enoch from 
Abyssinia, from which Hoffmann made the second part 
of his German version. All these editions were super- 
seded by those of Dillmann, who edited the gEthiopic 
text from five MSS. (Liber JIcnoch, sEthiopice , Lipsiae, 
1851), and afterwards gave a German translation of 
the book with a good introduction and commentary 
(Das Buck Henoch . . . von Dr. A. Dillmann, Leip- 
zig, 1853). The work of Dillmann gave a fresh im- 
pulse to the study of the book. Among the essaj's 
which were called out by it, the most important were 
those of Ewald (Ueber des sEthiopischen Buches Henoch 
Entstehung , etc., Gottingen, 1856) and Hilgenfeld (D. 
Jiidische Apokcilyptik , Jena, 1857). The older litera- 
ture on the subject is reviewed by Fabricius (Cod. 
Pseudep. V. T. i, 199 sq.). 

The Greek translation, in which it was known to the 
fathers, appears to be irrecoverably lost. There is no 
trace of it after the 8th century. The last remnant of 
it is preserved by Syncellus. 

II. Identity of the extant Forms . — There can be no 
doubt that the Ethiopic translation exhibits the iden- 
tical book which, as most believe, Jude quoted, and 
which is also mentioned or cited by many of the fa- 
thers. The fragment preserved by Syncellus (reprint- 
ed by Laurence and Hoffmann) is obviously the same 
as chap, vii, etc., the deviations being of little import- 
ance (though one considerable passage quoted by 
Georg. Synccll. is vaulting in the present book, Dillm. 
p. 85), and probably accidental. It is manifest, also, 
to any one who will compare the quotations made by 
the fathers with the Ethiopic version, that both point 
to the same original. The extracts in question could 
not have been interpolations, as they are essential to 
the connections in which they are found. The men- 
tion of books of Enoch in the Testament of Judah, in 
the Testament of Benjamin, in Origen (c. Cels, and 
Hom’d, in A dm.), and of the “ first book” of Enoch in 
the fragments preserved by Syncellus, consist with 
the idea that the whole was then, as now', divided into 
different books. Tertullian leads us to believe that it 
W'as of the same extent in the Greek text then exist- 
ing as it is in the present Ethiopic. 

III. Canonicity . — Notwithstanding the quotation in 
Jude, and the wide circulation of t lie book itself, the 
apocalypse of Enoch was uniformly and distinctly sep- 
arated from the canonical Scriptures. Tertullian alone 
maintained its authority, while he admitted that it w'as 
not received by the Jews: his arguments, however, 
are exceedingly puerile (De cultu ftminarum , i, 3). 
Origen, on the other hand (c. Cels, v, 267, ed. Spenc.), 
and Augustine (De Civ. xv. 23, -1), definitively mark it 
as apocryphal, and it is reckoned among the apocry- 
phal books in the Apostolic Constitutions (vi, 16), and 
in the catalogues of the Synops. S. Scriptures , Nicepho- 
ros (Credncr, Zur Gcsch. d. Kan. p. 115), aml.Mont- 
fancon (Bib/. Coistin. p. 193). 

IV. Original Language. — The book of’ Zohar, in 
which arc various allusions to Enoch, seems to speak 


of it as an important Hebrew r production which bad 
been handed down from generation to generation. 
The Cabbalists, whose opinions are embodied in Zo- 
har, thought that Enoch was really the author, a sen- 
timent quite at variance with any other hypothesis 
than that of a Hebrew' original. At all events, a He- 
brew book of Enoch was known and used by Jewish 
writers till the 13th century (Dillmann, Einl. lvii). 
One of the earliest references to the book occurs in the 
Hebrew Book of Jubilees (Dillmann, in EwakVs Jahrb. 
I860, p. 90). The careful reader soon sees that the 
work xvas composed at first in Hebrew', or rather He- 
brew'-Aramaaan. This was long ago perceived bv Jo- 
seph Scaliger, though he had before him nothing but 
the Greek fragments preserved by Syncellus. Het- 
tinger, how'ever, observed, in opposition to Scaliger, 
that a Hebraizing style is no sure proof of a Hebrew 
original. Hoffmann adduces the llebrew’-Aramaean 
etymology of names, especially the names of angels, 
as an evidence of the Aramajan original — an argument 
W'hich is more pertinent; and Laurence infers from 
the book cf Zohar that Hebrew w’as its primitive lan- 
guage. The writer’s thorough acquaintance with the 
canonical Scriptures of the Jews in the tongue in which 
they w r ere composed; their use of them in the original, 
not the Greek translation of the Septuagint; their He- 
brew etymologies of names, especially the appella- 
tions of angels and archangels ; the fact that all words 
and phrases can easily be rendered back into Hebrew 
and Aramaean, and the many Hebrew' idioms and 
terms that occur, prove that neither Greek nor Ethi- 
opia W'as the original language, but the later Palestin- 
ian Hebrew. Thus Tamiel (viii, 7) is compounded of 
CD and bx, the upright cf God ; Samyaza of E T and 
XTE, the -name of the strong. The same conclusion fol- 
low's from, the term Ophanin (lx, 13), which is evident- 
ly identical w'ith the Hebrew' "("-SX. It is remarka- 
ble, also, that as Ophanin occurs in connection with 
the Cherubim, so the Hebrew term , j‘'2£X is found in 
the same association (1 Kings vii, 30; Ezek. i, 15, 16, 
19. 20, 21 ; x, 2, 6, 9, 10, etc. ; 31 array's Enoch Pesti - 
tutus, p. 33 sq.). The names of the sun are Orycires 
and Tomas (Ixxvii, 1), from "VlX and n°sr. In 

Ixxvii, 1, 2, w r c read that ‘‘the first wind is called ihe 
eastern, because it is the frsi,’ n which can only be ex- 
plained by the Hebrew E^p, “the second 

is called the south, because the 31ost High there de- 
scends,” i. c. from E*n (Dillmann, Das 

Buch Henoch, p. 235, 236). The names of the conduct- 
ors of the month arc also Hebrew (Ixxxii, 13), as 
3Inrray (p. 46) and Hoffmann (p. 600) remark. See 
Joseph hal-Lewi, in the Journal Asiatique, 1867, p. 
352 sq. 

At what time the Greek version was made from the 
original can only be conjectured. It could not have 
been long after the final redaction of the whole, prob- 
ably about the time of Philo. Having appeared in 
Greek, it soon became widely circulated. The Ethi- 
opic version w T as made from the Greek probably about 
the same time as the Ethiopic translation of the other 
parts of the Bible with which it was afterwards con- 
nected, or, in other words, towards the. middle or close 
of the 4th century. Sec Ethiopic Vkusioxs. 

3". Contents . — The book of Enoch is divided in the 
Ethiopic 31 SS. into twenty sections, w hich are subdi- 
vided into 108 chapters; but copies differ in their spe- 
cification of chapters. Dillmann has properly depart- 
ed from the 31 SS., and endeavored to make divisions 
of sections, chapters, and verses which may represent 
the text pretty nearly as it is preserved among the 
Abvssinians. 

In its present shape the book consists of a series of 
revelations supposed to have been given to Enoch and 
Noah, which extend to the most varied aspects of na- 


EXOCII, BOOK OF 


-27 


ENOCH, BOOK OF 


turc and life, and are designed to offer a comprehen- 
sive vindication of the action of Providence. See 
Enoch. It is divided into five parts. The first part 
(chaps, i-xxxvi, Dillm.), after a general introduction 
(characterizing the book to which it belongs as a rev- 
elation of Enoch the seer respecting the future judg- 
ment of the world, and its results both towards the 
righteous and rebellious sinners, written to console the 
pious in the times of final tribulation), contains an ac- 
count of the fall of the angels (Gen. vi, 1), and of the 
judgment to come upon them and upon the giants, 
their offspring (vi-xvi); and this is followed by the 
description of the journey of Enoch through the earth 
and lower heaven in company w r ith an angel, who 
showed to him many of the great mysteries of nature, 
the treasure-houses of the storms, and winds, and tires 
of heaven, the prison of the fallen, and the land of the 
blessed (xvii-xxxvi). The second part (xxxvii-lxxi) 
is styled “a vision of wisdom,” and consists of three 
“parables,” in which Enoch relates the revelations 
of the higher secrets of heaven and of the spiritual 
world which were given to him. The first parable 
(xxxviii-xliv) gives chiefly a picture of the future 
blessings and manifestation of the righteous, with fur- 
ther details as to the heavenly bodies ; the second (xlv 
-Ivii) describes in splendid imagery the coming of 
Messiah, and the results which it should work among 
“the elect” and the gainsavers ; the third (Iviii-lxix) 
draws out at further length the blessedness of “ the 
elect and holy,” and the confusion and wretchedness 
of the sinful rulers of the world. The third part (Ixxii 
-lxxxii) is styled “ the book of the course of the lights 
of heaven,” and deals with the motions of the sun and 
moon, and the changes of the seasons; and with this 
the narrative of the journey of Enoch closes. The 
fourth part (Ixxxiii-xci) is not distinguished by any 
special name, but contains the record of a dream which 
was granted to Enoch in his youth, in which he saw 
the history of the kingdoms of God and of the world 
up to the final establishment of the throne of Messiah. 
Th e fifth part (xcii-cv) contains the last addresses of 
Enoch to his children, in which the teaching of the 
former chapters is made the groundwork of earnest 
exhortation. The signs which attended the birth of 
Noah are next noticed (evi-evii); and another short 
“writing of Enoch” (cviii) forms the close to the 
whole book (comp. Dillmann, Einl. i sq. ; Liicke, Ver- 
such einer vollstdnd. Einl. i, 93 sq.). 

VI. Design. — The leading object of the writer, who 
was manifestly imbued with deep piety, was to com- 
fort and strengthen his contemporaries, lie lived in 
times of distress and persecution, when the enemies of 
religion oppressed the righteous. The outward cir- 
cumstances of the godly were such as to excite doubts 
of the divine equity in their minds, or, at least, to pre- 
vent it from having that hold on their faith which was 
necessary to sustain them in the hour of trial. In ac- 
cordance with this, the writer exhibits the reward of 
the righteous and the punishment of the wicked. To 
give greater authority to his affirmations, he puts them 
into the mouths of Enoch and Noah. Thus they have 
all the weight belonging to the character of an emi- 
nent prophet and saint. Various digressions are not 
without their bearing on the author’s main purpose. 
The narrative of the fallen angels and their punish- 
ment, as also of the flood, exemplifies the retributive 
justice of Jehovah ; while the Jewish history, contin- 
ued down to a late period, exhibits the final triumph 
of His people, notwithstanding all their vicissitudes. 
Doubtless the author lived amid a season of fiery trial, 
and, looking abroad over the desolation, sought to 
cheer the sufferers by the consideration that they 
should be recompensed in the Messianic kingdom. 
As for their wicked oppressors, they were to experi- 
ence terrible judgments. The writer occasionally de- 
lights in littering dire anathemas against the wicked. 
It is plain that the Look grew out of the times and 


circumstances by which he was surrounded. It gives 
ns a glimpse not only of the religious opinions, but 
also of the general features which characterized the 
whole period. The book belongs to the apocalyptic 
literature of the period between the close of the O.-T, 
canon and the advent of Messiah. It is therefore of 
the same class of composition as the fourth book of 
Esdras and the Jewish Sibyllines. The principal in- 
terest attaching to it arises from its contributing to 
our knowledge of the development of Jewish Messianic 
ideas subsequently to the writings of inspired proph- 
ets. In tracing the gradual unfolding and growth of 
those ideas among the Jewish people, we are the bet- 
ter prepared for the revelation of the N. T. 

VII. Doctrines. — 1 n doctrine the Hook of Enoch ex- 
hibits a great advance of thought within the limits of 
revelation in each of the great divisions of knowledge. 
The teaching on nature is a curious attempt to reduce 
the scattered images of the 0. T. to a physical system. 
The view of society and man, of the temporary tri- 
umph and final discomfiture of the oppressors of God’s 
people, carries out into elaborate detail the pregnant 
images of Daniel. The figure of the Messiah is in- 
vested with majestic dignity as “the Son of God” 

- (cv, 2 only), “whose name was named before the sun 
was made” (xlviii, 3), and who existed “aforetime in 
the presence of God” (Ixii, G; comp. Laurence, Prel. 
Diss. li sq.). At the same time, his human attributes 
as “the son of man,” “the son of woman” (Ixii, 5 
only), “the elect one,” “the righteous one,” “the 
, anointed,” are brought into conspicuous notice. The 
mysteries of the spiritual world, the connection of an- 
, gels and men, the classes and ministries of the hosts 
1 of heaven, the power of Satan (xl, 7 ; lxv, G), and the 
legions of darkness, the doctrines of resurrection, retri- 
bution, and eternal punishment (xxii; comp. Dillm. 
p. xix), are dwelt upon with growing earnestness as 
the horizon of speculation was extended by intercourse 
with Greece. Hut the message of the book is emphat- 
ically one of “faith and truth” (comp. Dillm. p. 3*2), 

, and while the writer combines and repeats the thoughts 
of Scripture, he adds no new element to the teaching 
I of the prophets. His errors spring from an undisci- 
plined attempt to explain their words, and from a 
proud exultation in present success. For the great 
| characteristic by which the book is distinguished from 
' the later apocalypse of Ezra [see Esduas, 2d Book] 
is the tone of triumphant expectation by w hich it is 
pervaded. It seems to repeat in every form the great 
principle that the world, natural, moral, and spiritual, 
is under the immediate government of God. Hence 
it follows that there is a terrible retribution reserved 
for sinners, and a glorious kingdom prepared for the 
righteous, and Messiah is regarded as the divine medi- 
ator of this double issue (xc, xci). Nor is it without a 
striking fitness that a patriarch translated from earth, 
and admitted to look upon the divine majesty, is cho- 
I sen as “ the herald of wisdom, righteousness, and judg- 
ment to a people who, even in suffering, saw in their 
tyrants only the victims of a coming vengeance.” 

As in the canonical prophecies of the O. T., so here, 
the final establishment of the Messianic kingdom is 
preceded by wars and desolations. In the eighth of 
the ten w*ceks into which the world’s history is divided, 

1 the sword executes judgment upon the wicked, at the 
end of which God’s people have built a new temple, in 
which they are gathered together. The tenth week 
closes with the eternal judgment upon angels (xc, xci). 

With respect to the doctrine of a general resurrec- 
tion, it is certainly implied in the work. But the 
mode of the resurrection of the wicked and the right- 
eous is differently presented. The spirits of the for- 
mer are taken out of Sheol and thrown into the place 
of torment (xcviii, 3; ciii, 8; cviii, 2-5); wdiereas the 
spirits of the righteous raised again will be reunited to 
I their bodies , and share the blessedness of Messiah’s 
I kingdom on earth (lxi, 5 ; xci, 10 ; xcii, 3 ; c, 5). The 


228 


ENOCH, BOOK OF 


ENOCH, BOOK OF. 

reunion of their bodies with their spirits appears a thing | 
reserved for the righteous. 

As various sects in Jerusalem were tolerably devel- 
oped at the time of sonic of the writers, it has been a 
subject of inquiry whether the peculiar doctrines of any 
appear in the work. According to Jellinck ( Zeltschrlft 
d r dc u tsch .-mo rgen l and ( lesdlschaft , vii, 249), the work 1 
originated in the sphere of Essen ism. We learn from 
Josephus that the Essenes preserved as sacred the 
names of the angels ; and put up certain prayers be- 
fore sunrise, as if they made supplication for that phe- 
nomenon ( \\ r ar, ii, «)• Now there is a very developed 
angel-doctrine in the work before us, and we also find 
the following passage : “When I went out from below 
and saw the heaven, and the sun rise in the east, and 
the moon go down in tiie west, a few stars, and every- 
thing as he has known it from the beginning, I praised 
the Lord of judgment and magnified him, because he 
has made the sun go forth from the windows of the 
east,” etc., lxxxiii, 11). This certainly reminds one 
of Essenism showing its influence on the mind of the 
writer. The 108th chapter is more plainly Essenic. 
The pious, wdiom God rewards with blessings, are de- 
scribed as having lived a life of purity, self-denial, and 
asceticism like to that of the Essenes. Yet Dillmann 
appears disinclined to find any reflection of Essenism in 
lxxxiii, 11, or elsewhere (Das Buck Henoch , Allgemeine 
Einleitung , p. liii). We admit that the other parts of 
the book arc free from it. It is obvious that the writer 
did not belong to the school of the Pharisees. lie was 
tolerably free from the sects of his people ; rising above 
the narrow confines of their distinctive peculiarities, 
which were not then fully developed. 

VIII. Style. — It is obvious that the author was a 
poet of no mean order. His inspiration was high, his 
ideas elevated and pure. He had a creative fancy 
which could body forth new forms and shapes. Speak- 
ing out of the midst of his own time, he could throw 
himself back into the past, and mould it suital ly to 
bis purpose. His language, too, has the living fresh- 
ness of a master. He was well acquainted w ith the 
hook of Daniel, as is obvious from the spirit of his pro- 
duction. Not that he was an imitator of that hook — 
far from it ; his mind was too powerful and independ- 
ent. It is characteristic of him that he calls Jehovah 
Lord of Spirits, that he specifies as the seven spiritual 
beings that stand before God the four highest angels, 
Michael, Kaphacl, Gabriel, Phanucl ; and the three 
highest hosts, the Cherubim, Seraphim, and Ophanim; 
that he speaks of the Elect by w'ay of eminence, the 
Son of Man, i. e. the Messiah. The charm of the 
writer’s descriptions is irresistible, transporting the 
render into the highest regions of the spiritual world. 
With a genuine glow of feeling, and the elevation of 
purest hope, he carries us away, till we are lost in 
wonder at the poetic inspiration of one living at a pe- 
riod comparatively so late. His work must have cre- 
ated a new branch of w-riting at the time, leading to 
numerous imitations. 

IX. Authorship. — The general unity which the book 
possesses in its present form marks it, in the main, as 
the work of one man. The several parts, while they 
are complete in themselves, are still connected by the 
development of a common purpose. Put internal co- 
incidence shows with equal clearness that different 
fragments were incorporated by the author into his 
work, and some additions have been probably made 
afterwards. Different “ books” are mentioned in early 
times, and variations in style and language arc dis- 
cernible in the present book. To distinguish the orig- 
inal elements and later interpolations is tlic great prob- 
lem which still remains to be solved, for the different 
theories which have been proposed arc barely plausi- 
ble. In each case the critic seems to start with pre- 
conceived notions as to wfliat was to be expected at a 
particular time, and forms his conclusions to suit his 
prejudices. Hoffmann and Weissc place the composi- 


tion of the whole work after the Christian aera, because 
the one thinks that Jude could not have quoted an 
apocryphal hook (Hoffmann, Schriftbeweis, i, 420 sq.), 
and the other seeks to detach Christianity altogether 
from a Jewish foundation (Weissc, Evangdienf rage, p. 
214 sq.). Stuart (Am. Bill. Bepos. 1840j so far antic- 
ipated the argument of Weissc as to regard the Cliris- 
tology of the book as a clear sign of its post-Christian 
origin. Ewald, according to his usual custom, picks 
out the different elements with a daring confidence, 
and leaves a result so complicated that no one can ac- 
cept it in its details, while it is characterized in its 
great features by masterly judgment and sagacity, 
lie places the composition of the groundwork of the 
book at various intervals between B.C. 144 and B.C. 
cir. 120, and supposes that the whole assumed its pres- 
ent form in the first half of the century before Christ. 
Li’icke (2d cd.) distinguishes two great parts, an older 
part including chaps, i xxxvi, and lxxii-cv, which lie 
dates from the beginning of the Maccabsean struggle, 
and a later, chaps, xxxvii-lxxi, which he assigns to 
the period of the rise of Herod the* Great (B.C. 141, 
etc.). He supposes, how r ever, that later interpolations 
were made without attempting to ascertain their date. 
Dillmann at first (nt sup.') upheld more decidedly the 
unity of the book, and assigned the chief part of it to 
an Aramaean writer of the time of John llyrcanus 
(B.C. cir. 110). To this, according to him, “ histori- 
cal” and “Noaehian additions” were made, probably 
in the Greek translation (Einl. lii). Latterly, how- 
ever (in Herzog’s Encyklop. xii, 309), he has greatly 
modified this opinion. Kostlin (in Zeller’s Jahrb. 1856, 
p. 240 sq., 370 sq.) assigns chaps, i-xvi, xxi xxxvi, 
lxxii-cv to about B.C. 110; chaps, xxxvii-lxxi to 
B.C. cir. 100 64; and the u Noaehian additions” and 
chap, cviii to the time of IJcrod the Great. Ililgen- 
feld himself places the original book (chaps, i-xvi, 
xx-xxxvi, lxxii-xc, xci, 1-19; xciii, cv) about the be- 
ginning of the first century before Christ (vt sup. p. 
145 «.). This book he supposes to’have passed through 
the hands of a Christian writer who lived between the 
times “of Saturninus and Marcion” (p. 181), who add- 
ed the chief remaining portions, including the great 
Messianic section, chaps, xxxvii, lxxi. In the face 
of these conflicting theories it is evidently impossible 
to dogmatize, and the evidence is insufficient for con- 
1 elusive reasoning. The interpretation of the Apoca- 
lyptic histories (chaps, lvi, 1 vii, Ixxxv-xc), on which 
the chief stress is laid for fixing the date of the hook, 
involves necessarily minute criticism of details, which 
belongs rather to a commentary than to a general In- 
troduction ; but, notwithstanding the arguments of 
llilgenfeld and Jost (Gesch. Jud. ii, 218 v .), the whole 
book appears to be distinctly of Jewish origin. Some 
inconsiderable interpolations may have been made in 
successive translations, and large fragments of a much 
earlier date were undoubtedly incorporated into the 
j work, but, as a whole, it may be regarded as describing 
an important phase of Jewish opinion shortly before 
the coining of Christ. That the entire production ap- 
peared before the Christian rera is clearly dedueible 
from the fact that the lloman empire never appears as 
a power dangerous to Israel. Volk mar, however, con- 
tends (in the Zeitschr. der morg. Gesdlsch. 18G0, p. 87 
sq.) that it w'as written by a disciple of Akiba to en- 
courage the Jewish revolt under Bar-Cocheba ; a view' 
which is ably controverted by llilgenfeld (lb. p. Ill 
Sq.). 

►Stuart has laid considerable stress on the Christolo- 
gv of the book as indicative of an acquaintance on the 
authors’ part with the N. T., especially the Apocalypse. 
But the Christological portions do not possess sufficient 
distinctness to imply a knowledge of the N. T. The 
name Jesus never occurs. Neither are the appella- 
tions Lord , Lord Jesus, Jesus Christ, or even Christ em- 
ployed. The wx rds faith, believers, God and Ms anoint - 
1 cd, deny, etc., can hardly be claimed as Christian terms, 


229 


ENOCH, BOOK OF 


ENOCH, BOOK OF 


hecause the)’ occur in the Ethiopic 0. T. as the repre- 
sentatives of Hebrew-Greek ones. All that can be 
truly deduced from the Christology is that it is highly 
developed, and very elevated ill tone, yet fairly deriv- 
able from the O. T. in all its essential and individual 
features. Nor is there anything in the eschatology 
or angelology to necessitate a Christian origin. We 
allow that the Messiah is spoken of in very exalted 
terms. Ilis dignity, character, and acts surpass the 
descriptions presented in other Jewish books. But 
they are alike in the main, colored by the highly po- 
etical imagination of the writers, in conformity with 
the sublimity and animation of their creations. We 
must therefore reject Stuart’s opinion of a Jewisli- 
Christian origin. All the arguments adduced on its 
behalf are easily dissipated, since Dillman’s edition 
and Ewald’s criticisms have led to a better acquaint- 
ance with the text of the work itself. Nor is Hil- 
genfcld’s attempt to show that the so-called first Enoch 
book (xxxvii-lxxi) proceeded from Christian Gnostics 
more successful, as Dillmann has remarked ( Pseudepi - 
graphen des A. T. in TIerzog’s Encyklopddie , xii, 309, 
310). Equally futile is Hoffmann’s endeavor to show 
that the work did not appear till after the destruction 
of Jerusalem in the first century, when both Jude’s 
epistle and the Apocalypse had been written ( Zeitschr . 
d. morgenl. Gesellschaft , vi, 87 sq.). Not very dissim- 
ilar is Bdttcher's view, that the book, like the Sybil- 
line oracles, was made up in the first and second cen- 
turies after Christ of pieces belonging to different 
times (Be Infer is, i, § 505). Nothing is more certain 
than that the work belongs to an ante-Christian world ; 
and therefore the only problem is how to distribute 
the different books incorporated, and when to date 
them separately and collectively. After Laurence, 
Hoffmann and Gfriirer had erred in placing the whole 
under Herod the Great ; Krieger and Lticke assigned 
different portions to different times, putting chaps, i- 
xxxvi and lxxii-cviii to the early years of the Macca- 
ba?an struggle, and xxxvii-lxxi to B.C. 38-34. How 
far this apportionment is correct will be seen from the 
preceding statements (see Krieger's Beitrage z. Kritik 
vnd Exegese , 1845, and Lticke ’s Vcrsuch einer vollstan - 
digen Einleitung in die Offenbcirung des Johannes, § 11). 

X. The Place where it was written. — The place where 
the author lived and wrote is Palestine. This alone 
seems to suit the circumstances implied in the work, 
which is largely pervaded by the spirit of persons 
whose power, religion, and independence had been 
overborne bv foreign interference. Laurence, how- 
ever, endeavors to show from the 72d chapter (71st 
Laurence), where the length of the days at various 
periods of the year is given, that the locality must 
have been between the 45th and 49th degrees of north 
latitude, in the northern districts of the Caspian and 
Euxine seas. Hence he conjectures that the writer 
was one of the Jews who had been carried away by 
Shalmaneser and did not return. Krieger supposes 
(Beitrage, p. 53) that Enoch, the imaginary writer, 
drew from the astronomical traditions or writings of 
northern Asia, regardless of the difference of Pales- 
tine’s geographical position. Murray has shown (p. 
63 sq.) that one passage favors the idea that the author 
lived in Abyssinia; whence he infers that the produc- 
tion proceeded from various persons belonging to 
countries removed from one another. But I)e Sacy 
has remarked that as the authors’ astronomical system 
is partly imaginary, their geography may also be vis- 
ionary. Neither Egypt, nor Chaldasa, nor Palestine, 
suits the astronomy of the book. The scientific knowl- 
edge of the Israelites was imperfect. It is therefore 
idle to look for accuracy in geography or astronomy. 
The writer or writers systematized such knowledge as 
they had of natural phenomena after their own fash- 
ion, as appears from the fact that to every third month 
thirty-one days are assigned. The allusions to the 
Oriental theosophy and the opinions of Zoroaster do 


not necessarily commend a Chaldcean origin, at least 
of the astronomical part, since the images of fire, ra- 
diance, light, and other Oriental symbols may be sat- 
isfactorily accounted for by the Jews’ intercourse with 
other nations, and their residence there for a time. 
The Oriental philosophy of Middle Asia was evidently 
not unknown to the authors. Zoroastrian doctrines 
are embodied in the work hecause Persian influences 
had been felt by the Israelites since the Babylonian 
captivity. 

XL Did Jude really quote the Book of Enoch ? — A 
simple comparison of the language of the apostle and 
that found in the corresponding passage of the extant 
book seems to settle this question conclusively in the 
affirmative, especially as the Scripture citation is pre- 
faced with the direct acknowledgment of quotation : 
“And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied 
of these, saying,” etc. The following are the words 
respectively : 


Episti.e of Jude, ver. 14, 15 ; 

Authorized Version. 

“ Behold, the Lord cometli 
with ten thousands of his 
saints, to execute judgment 
upon all, and to convince all 
that are ungodly among them 
of all their ungodly deeds 
which they have ungodly com- 
mitted, and of all their hard 
speeches which ungodly sin- 
ners have spoken against him.” 


Book of Enoch, chap, ii ; 

Laurence's Version. 
u Behold, he comes with ten 
thousands of his saints, to ex- 
ecute judgment upon them, 
and destroy the wicked, and 
reprove all the carnal for eve- 
rything which the sinful and 
ungodly have done, and com- 
mitted against him.” 


Some, however, are most unwilling to believe that 
an inspired writer could cite an apocryphal production. 
Such an opinion destroys, in their view, the character 
of his writing, and reduces it to the level of an ordi- 
nary composition. But this is preposterous. The 
apostle Paul quotes several of the heathen poets, yet 
who ever supposed that by such references he sanc- 
tions the productions from which his citations are 
made, or renders them of greater value? All that 
can be reasonably inferred from such a fact is, that if 
the inspired writer cites a particular sentiment with 
approbation, it must be regarded as just and right, ir- 
respective of the remainder of the hook in which it is 
found. The apostle’s sanction extends no farther 
than the passage to which he alludes. Other portions 
of the original document may exhibit the most absurd 
and superstitious notions. It has always been the 
current opinion that Jude quoted the hook of Enoch, 
and there is nothing to disprove it. It is true that 
there is some variation between the quotation and its 
original, hut this is usual even with the N. T. writers 
in citing the Old. 

Others, as Cave, Simon, AVitsius, etc., suppose that 
Jude quoted a traditional prophecy or saying of Enoch, 
and we see no improbability in the assumption. Oth- 
ers, again, believe that the words apparently cited by 
Jude were suggested to him by the Holy Spirit. But 
surely this hypothesis is unnecessary. Until it can 
be shown that the book of Enoch did not exist in the 
time of Jude, or that his quoting it is unworthy of 
him, or that such knowledge was not handed down 
traditionally so as to be within his reach, we abide by 
the opinion that Jude really quoted the hook. AY bile 
there are probable grounds for believing that he might 
have become acquainted with the circumstance inde- 
pendently of inspiw.tion, we ought not to have recourse 
to the hypothesis of immediate suggestion. On the 
whole, it is most likely that the book of Enoch existed 
before the time of Jude, and that the latter really 
quoted it in accordance with the current tradition. 
Whether the prophecy ascribed to Enoch was truly as- 
cribed to him is a question of no importance in this con- 
nection. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Jude. 

XII. Literature. — Bange, I)e libro Ilenochi (in his 
Codum Orientis , Hafn. 1657, 4to, p. 16-19 ; and Exerci- 
tationes , Cracow, 1691, 4to) ; Bruce, Travels, ii, 8vo ; 
Butt, Genuineness of Enoch (Lond. 1827, 8vo) ; Dill- 
mann, Liber Henoch sEthiopice (Lpz. 1851, 8vo); Id., 


230 


EN-ROGEL 


ENOCH. CITY OF 


Pas Buck TJcnocli ubersetzt und erhldrt (Leipz. 1853, 
8vo); Id., Pscudeplgraphtn des A. T. (in Herzog's En- 
cyklopiidie, xii, 3U8 sq.) ; Dorsclie, Be prophttia J/e- 
iiochi (in his Auctarium I y entadeeudis, tliss. i, p. 555 
sq.) ; Drusius, Be projdicta Henoch (Franec. 1C15, 4to ; 
also in the Critiii S ucri, i, 373); Ewald, Abh. ub. d. 
sEthiojrishen Buchcs Henoch ((lotting. 1851, 4to); Fa- 
bricius, Cod. Pseudepigraphus U. T. i, 100-224; Firnha- 
ber, Be Jlenocko qmvstvmcs (Witteniberg, 1716, 4to) ; 
(Ifrbrer, in the Tub. Zeitschr. f. Theologie , 1837, iv, 120 
sq. ; Id. Bus Jahrhundert des Ileils , i, 93 sq. ; Hilgen- 
fcld. Die. Jiidische Apokulyptik (Jen. 1857, 8vo); Iloft- 
niann, Bus Buck Henoch (Jen. 1833, 1838, 8vo) ; Hot- 
tinger, Be prophet ia Henochi (in his Ennead . Biss. 
Ileidelb. 10. . 4to) ; Kostlin, in Baur and Zeller’s 
Jufirbuch , 1856, ii, iii ; Laurence, The Booh of Enoch 
(3d edit. Oxford, 1838, 8vo) ; Liicke, Einleitung in die 
O'lfinbarung Juktmnis (Bonn, 1848, 8vo, § 11, 2d ed.); 
Yon Meyer, in the TheoL Stud. u. Krit. 1841, hi, 63 
sq. ; Murray, Enoch Pest i kit us (London, 1836, 8vo) ; 
Pfeiffer, Be llenoeho (Wittemb. 1G70, 8vo ; also in his 
Ojnra Philol. Tr. ad Bli. 1704, 8vo, p. 519); De Sacy, 
in the Magasin Encyclopedique (VI, i, 382 ; transl. into 
Germ, by Link, Konigsb. 1801, 8vo) ; and in the Jour- 
nal des Savons, Oct. 1822; Stuart, in the Am. Bib!, 
depository, Jan. and July, 1840 ; Volkmar, in Zeitschr. 
d. deutschen morgenl. Gescllschaft , 1860, i ; and in the 
Zeitschr. f. wissensch. Theoloefie, 1862, ii ; AVieseler, 
Apokalypt. Litteratur des A. u. X. T. i, 162 sq. ; Id., 
Die 70 )Cochen des Daniel (Gott. 1839) ; Philippi, B. B. 
Henoch, sein Zeitaller u. Yerhdllnisse zum Judasbriefe 
(Stuttg. 1868). 

ENOCH, CITY OF. See Enoch, 1. 

Bnon. See ./Exox. 

E'lios (Heb. Enoslt , Ui'iN, poet, a man ; Sept, and 
N. T. ’Evmx; Josephus "Ei'caroe, Ant. i, 3, 2), the son 
of Seth, and grandson of Adam (Gen. v, 6-11; Luke 
iii, 38). He lived 905 years (15.C. 3937-30.32), and is 
remarkable on account of a singular expression used 
respecting him in Genesis iv, 26, “ Then began men 
to call on tlie name of the Lord.” This is not to be 
taken absolutely, as it would be absurd to suppose 
that none called on the name of the Lord before that 
time, and accordingly there are two interpretations 
given of the passage : one is the marginal reading of 
the A. V., “Then began men to call themselves by 
the name of the Lord,” in order, it would seem, to dis- 
tinguish themselves from those who were already idol- 
aters, and were termed children of men ; the other, 
“ Then men profanely called on the name of the 
Lord,” intimating that at that period idolatry began 
to be practised among men. The latter is the inter- 
pretation adopted by the Jewish expositors generally, 
but the former has more currency among Christian 
commentators. It may be observed that they both 
unite in the common idea of the widening difference 
between the pious and the wicked. In either case the 
passage may be regarded as implying that divine wor- 
ship, which till that time had been confined to private 
families, now became public — that is, religious services 
were held on fixed days and in public assemblies. In 
1 Chron. i, 1, the name is Anglicized Exosn. 

B'liosh, a more correct mode of Anglicizing (1 
Chron. i, 1) the name Exos (q. v.). 

En-rim'mon (Heb. Eyn Pimmon , *jixn fV. foun- 
tain (f Pimmon; Sept, h > 'Veppiuv v. r. iv Tquowv, 
Vat. MS. omits, Yulg. ct in Pentium), a place occu- 
pied by the descendants of Judah after the exile (Neh. 
xi, 29). It appears from the associated places to be 
the same with the “;lm and Pimmon ” of Josh, xv, 32 
(comp. Josh, xix, 7 ; 1 Chron. iv, 32), where perhaps, 
in like manner, but one place is referred to, a spring 
adjoining the town of Pimmon. See Aix.. Yet the 
enumeration (“five cities”^ of 1 Chron. iv, 32 (“Ain, 
I’immon”) requires them to be taken a4 distinct. In 
fact, there appears to have been a Lcvitical city en- 


Bimmon near to, hut originally distinct from the non- 
Levitical Bimmon, and indicated by a remarkable res- 
ervoir still extant in the vicinity. See Bimjiox. 

En-ro'gel (II eb. Eyn P< g-C , fV, fount of the 

treader, q. d .foot fountain ; construed by Hirst, after 
the Targums, with the Arabic and Syriac versions, 

‘ ‘ Idtllers' Spring , ’ ’ because fullers trode the clothes in 
the water ; but Gesenius renders “ fountain q/’the spy;” 
Sept. 7rj/y/} WoyijX, Yulg.yiws Pogel), a spring which 
formed one of the landmaiks on the boundary-line be- 
tween Judah (Josh, xv, 7) and Benjamin (xviii, 16). 
It was t lie point next to Jerusalem, and at a lower 
level, as is evident from the use of the words “ascend- 
ed” and “descended” in these two passages. Here, 
apparently concealed from the view of the city, Jona- 
than and Ahiniaaz remained, after the flight of David, 
awaiting intelligence from within the walls (2 Sam. 
xvii, 17), and here, “by the stone Zoheleth, which is 
‘close to’ (512N) En-rogel,” Adonijah held the feast, 
which was the first and last act of his attempt on the 
crown (1 Kings i,9). By Josephus, on the last incident 
{Ant. vii, 14,4), its situation is given as “without the 
city, in the royal garden,” and it is without doubt re- 
ferred to by him in the same connection, in his descrip- 
tion of the earthquake which accompanied the sacrilege 
of Uzziah (AnLix, 10,4), and which, “ at the place call- 
ed Eroge” (’Epcr/q v. r. ’Eppwyf/), shook down a part 
of the Eastern hill, “so as to obstruct the roads, and 
the royal gardens.” In more modern times, a tradi- 
tion, apparently first recorded by Quaresmius, would 
make En-rogel identical with what is now called by 
the Franks the well of Neliemiah , and by the natives 
that of Job ( Eir-Eyiib ). Bobinson describes it as “a 
deep well situated just below the junction of the valley 
of Ilinnom with that of Jehoshaphat. The small ob- 
long plain there formed is covered with an olive-grove, 
and with the traces of former gardens extending down 
the valley from the present gardens of Siloam. In- 
deed, this whole spot is the prettiest and most fertile 
around Jerusalem. The well is very deep, of an irreg- 
ular quadrilateral form, walled up with large squared 
stones, terminating above in an arch on one side, and 
apparently of great antiquity. There is a small rude 
building over it, furnished with one or two large 
troughs or reservoirs of stone, which are kept partially 
filled for the convenience of the people. The well 
measures 125 feet in depth, 50 feet of which was now 
full of water. The water is sweet, but not very cold, 
and is at the present day drawn up by the hand. In 
; the rainy season the well becomes quite full, and some- 
times overflows at the mouth. Usually, however, the 
water runs oft’ under the surface of the ground, and 
finds an outlet some forty yards below the well, whence 
it is said to flow for sixty or seventy days in winter, 
and the stream is sometimes large” (. Researches , i, 490). 
In favor of this identification is the fact that in the 
Arabic version of Josh, xv, 7 the name of Ain-Eyub, 
or “spring of Job,” is given for En-rogel, and also 
that in an early Jewish Itinerary (Uri of Biel, in Ilot- 
tinger’s Cippi Htbraici, p. 48) the name is given as 
| “well of Joabf as if retaining the memory of Joab’s 
connection with Adonijah — a name which it still re- 
tains in the traditions of the Greek Christians (Wil- 
liams, Holy City , ii, 490). Against this general belief 
the following strong but not conclusive arguments aro 
urged by Bonar in favor of identifying En-rogel with 
the present “Fountain of the Virgin,” 'Ain Ummed - 
Baruj— “spring of the mother of steps” — the peren- 
nial source from which the Bool of Siloam is supplied 
(Land of Promise, App. v): 1. The Bir Eyub is a well 
and not a spring (En), while, on the other hand, the 
“ Fountain of the Virgin” is the only real spring close 
to Jerusalem. This objection, however, as the above 
description shows, but partially applies. 2. The situ- 
ation of the Fountain of the Virgin agrees somewhat 
better with the course of the boundary of Benjamin 


ENROLMENT 


231 


ENSIGN 


than that of the Bir Eyub, which is rather too far 
south. This objection, however, does not apply to the 
original boundary of Benjamin, which necessarily fol- 
lowed the valley of Siloam. See Trire. 3. Bir Eyub 
does not altogether suit the requirements of 2 Sam. 
xvii, 17. It is too fur off both from the city, and from 
the direct road over Olivet to the Jordan, and is in full 
view of the city (Van de Velde, i, 475), which the other 
spot is not. But we may readily suppose that a more 
retired route and a secluded spot would have been 
chosen for concealment. 4. The martyrdom of St. 
James (q. v.) was effected by casting him down from 
the temple wall into the valley of Kedron, where he 
was finally killed by a fuller with his washing-stick 
(Eusebius, Hist. Eccl. ii, 23). The natural inference 
is that the martyred apostle fell near where the fullers 
were at work. Now Bir Eyub is too far off from the 
site of the temple to allow of this, but it might very 
well have happened at the Fountain of the Virgin. 
(See Stanley’s Sermons on the A post. Age, p. 333-4). 
But this is too remote and indirect an agreement, and 
one based upon a vague tradition. 5. Daraj and Rogel 
are both from the same root, and therefore the mod- 
ern name may be derived from the ancient one, even 
though at present it is taken to allude to the “steps” 
by which the reservoir of the fountain is reached. G. 
The Fountain of the Virgin is still the great resort of 
the women of Jerusalem for washing and treading 
their clothes. 7. The level of the king’s gardens must 
have been above the Bir Eyub , even when the water 
is at the mouth of the well, and it is generally seventy 
or eighty feet below ; while they must have been low- 
er than the Fountain of the Virgin, which thus might 
be used without difficulty to irrigate them. The last 
considerations, however, have little weight (see Thom- 
son, Land and Book , ii, 528). — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. ; 
Fa jr bairn, s. v. See Jerusalem. 

Enrolment or droypa^// (Luke ii, 1, “taxing”). 
See Census. 

Ens is “ either ens re ah or ens rationis. Ens rationis 
is that which has no existence but in the idea which 
the mind forms of it, as a golden mountain. Ens reale , 
in philosophical language, is taken late et s(?icte , and is | 
distinguished as ens potentiate, or that which may exist, 
and ens actuate , or that which does exist. It is some- 
times taken as the concrete of essentia , and signifies 
what lias essence and may exist — as a rose in winter ; 
sometimes as the participle of esse, and it then signifies 
what actually exists. Ens without intellect is res a 
thing. ”— Fleming, Vocabidary of Philosophy, s. v. 
Ensample. See Example. 

En-she'mesh (Ileb. Eyn-She' mesh (™^->p;^ 
fountain of the sun ; Sept, y mjyy yXiov and - ryyy 
’Set peg; Vulgate, Ensemcs, id est, Eons Solis'), a spring 
which formed one of the landmarks on the north 
boundary of Judah (Josh, xv, 7) and the south bound- 
ary of Benjamin (xviii, 17). From these notices it ap- 
pears to have been between the “ascent of Ad um mini” 
— the road leading up from the Jordan valley south of 
the wady Kelt — and the spring of En-rogel,in the val- 
ley of Kedron. It was therefore east of Jerusalem 
and of the Mount of Olives. The only spring at pres- 
ent answering to this position is the Ain-IIaud or Ain- 
Chut — the “ Well of the Apostles” — about a mile below 
Bethany, the traveller’s first halting-place on the road 
to Jericho (Tohlor, Topog. von Jerus. ii, 400). The as- 
pect of this spring is such that the rays of the sun are 
on it the whole day. This is not inappropriate in a 
fountain dedicated to that luminary. — Smith, s. v. 
Ur. Kobinson thinks that En-shemesh must have been 
either this spring or the fountain near St. Saba {Re- 
searches, i, 493). 

Ensign is the rendering in the Auth. Vers, for two 
Hebrew words: r*lX, oth (the flag of a single tribe 
Num. ii, 2), a sign or token , as elsewhere rendered ; 


S3, nes (a lofty signal, e. g. a “pole,” Num. xxi, 0, 
9), a ship's standard or flag (“sail,” Isa. xxxiii, 23; 
Ezek. xxvii, 7), a beacon or signed on a hill, chiefly on 
the irruption of an enemy, in order to point out to the 
people a place of rendezvous. There is a third and 
more emphatic word relating to the subject, namely, 
ijn, de gel (from ^3^, to cover), which, however, is in- 
variably rendered “standard” (except Cant, ii, Ci ban- 
ner”). The distinction between these three Hebrew 
terms is sufficiently marked by their respective uses: 
Nes is a signal ; Degel, a military standard for a 
large division of an army ; and Oth, the same for a 
small one. Neither of them, however, expresses the 
idea which “standard” conveys to our minds, viz. a 
flag; the standards in use among the Hebrews proba- 
bly resembled those of the Egyptians and Assyrians — 
a figure or device of some kind elevated on a pole. 
See Banner. 

1. The notices of the nes or “ensign” are most fre- 
quent; it consisted of some well-understood signal 
which was exhibited on the top of a pole from a bare 
mountain top (Isa. xiii, 2 ; xviii, 3) — the very emblem 
of conspicuous isolation (Isa. xxx, 17). Around it 
the inhabitants mustered, whether for the purpose of 
meeting an enemy (Isa. v, 2G; xviii, 3; xxxi, 9), 
which was sometimes notified by the blast of a trum- 
pet (Jer. iv, 21 ; li, 27) ; or as a token of rescue (Psa. 
lx, 4; Isa. xi, 10; Jer. iv, 6); or for a public procla- 
mation (Jer. 1, 2) ; or simply as a gathering point (Isa. 
xlix, 22; lxii, 10). What the nature of the signal 
was we have no means of stating; it lias been infer- 
red from Isa. xxxiii, 23, and Ezek. xxvii, 7, that it 
was a flag : we do not observe a flag depicted either 
in Egyptian or Assyrian representations of vessels 
(Wilkinson, iii. 211 ; Bonomi, p. 1GG, 167) ; but, in lien 
of a flag, certain devices, such as the phoenix, flowers, 
etc., were embroidered on the sail, whence it appeals 
that the device itself, and perhaps also the sail bear- 
ing the device, was the nes or “ensign.” It may 
have sometimes been the name of a leader, as implied 
in the title which Moses gave to his altar, “ Jehovah- 
nissi” (Exod. xvii, 15). It may also have been, as 
Michaelis (Suppl. p. 1G48) suggests, a blazing torch. 
The important point, however, to be observed is, that 
the nes was an occasional signal, and not a military 
standard, and that elevation and conspicuity are implied 
in the use of the term : hence it is appropriately ap- 
plied to the “pole” on which the brazen serpent hung 
(Num. xxi, 8), which was indeed an “ensign” of deliv- 
erance to the pious Israelite ; and again to the censers 
of Ivorali and bis company, which became a “sign” 
or beacon of warning to Israel (Num. xvi, 38). See 
Signal. 

2. The term degel is user! to describe tlie standards 
which were given to eacli of the four divisions of the 
Israelitish army at the time of the Exodus (Num. i, 52 ; 
ii, 2 sq. ; x, 14 sq.). Some doubt indeed exists as to 
its meaning in these passages, the Sept, and Vulgate 
regarding it not as the standard itself, but as a certain 
military division annexed to a standard, just as a vex- 
illum is sometimes used for a body of soldiers (Tacitus, 
Hist, i, 70; Livy r , viii, 8). The sense of compact and 
martial array does certainly seem to lurk in the word ; 
for in Cant, vi, 4, 10, the brilliant glances of the bride’s 
eyes are compared to the destructive advance of a well- 
arrnyed host, and a similar comparison is employed in 
reference to the bridegroom (Cant, v, 10); but, on tho 
other band, in Cant, ii, 4, no other sense than that 
of a “banner” will suit, and we therefore think the 
rendering in the A. V. correct. No reliance can be 
placed on the term in Psa. xx, 5, as both the sense 
and the text are matters of doubt (see Olshausen and 
Ilengstenberg, in loe.). A standard implies, of course, 
a standard-bearer ; but the supposed notice to that of- 
ficer in Isa. x, 18, is incorrect, the words meaning 
rather “as a sick man pineth away;” in a somewhat 


ENTABLATURE 


232 


ENTERTAINMENT 


parallel passage (Isa. lix, 19) the marginal version is 
to he followed rather than the text. The character 
of the Hebrew military standards is quite a matter of 
conjecture; they probably resembled the Egyptian, 
which consisted of a sacred emblem, such as an animal, 
a boat, or the king’s name (Wilkinson, i, 294). Rab- 
binical writers state the devices to have been as fol- 
lows: for the tribe of Judah, a lion; for Reuben, a 
man; for Ephraim, an ox; and for Dan, an eagle (Carp- 
sov, Crit. Ap. ]). 667) ; but no reliance can be placed 
on this. As each of the four divisions, consisting of 
three tribes, had its standard, so had each tribe its 
“ sign” (oM) or “ ensign,” probably in imitation of the 
Egyptians, among whom not only each battalion, but 
even each company, had its particular ensign (Wilkin- 
son, l. c.). We know nothing of its nature. The word 
occurs figuratively in Psa. lxxiv, 4, apparently in ref- 
erence to the images of idol gods. — Smith, s. v. See 
Standard. 



Various Forms of Ancient Egyptian Ensigns. 


Entablature (Lat. In, tabula ), “the superstruct- 
ure which lies horizontally upon the columns in classic 
architecture : it is divided into architrave , th q part im- 
mediately above the column ; frieze , the central space ; 
and cornice, the upper projecting mouldings. Each of 
the orders has its appropriate entablature, of which 
both the general height and the subdivisions are reg- 
ulated by a scale of proportions derived from the diam- 
eter of the column.” — Parker, Glossary of Architecture, 
s. v. 

En-Tannim (Ileb. Kyn hat-tannhn , 
fountain of the. dragons or jackals; Sept. vrJ/y /) tCjv 
fTVKibv), a reservoir on the west side of Jerusalem 
(Nell, ii, 13), probably the present upper pool of Gi- 
hon ; Anglicized Dragon-well (q. v.). 

En-tap'puah (Ileb. Kyn Tapjniach , “p?, 

fountain of Tappuah ; Sept, y Tnjyy ()m rtyovk v. r. 
O«0$(«w), a spring near the city Tappuah (q. v.), put 
for that place in Josh, xvii, 7 (comp. ver. 8). 

Entelecky ( trreXiyeta, from LvrtXig, perfect ; 


and t\eiv, to have ; in Latin perfectihabid). “ In 
one of the books of the Pythagoreans, viz. Ocellus 
Lucanus , lRpi too i tc'ivtqc, the word awriXtia is used 
in the same sense. Hence it has been thought that 
this was borrowed from the Pythagoreans” (Monbod- 
do, Ancient Metaphysics , book i, chap, iii, p. 16, note). 
Cicero ( Tuscul . Quasi, lib. i, quaest. 1) interprets it to 
mean quondam quasi contimuitam motionem et peren- 
nein. Melancthon {Opera, xiii, 12-14, ed. 1846) gives 
two interpretations of endehchy , as he writes it. He 
says that treeXtysc signifies continuus , and 
continuitas. According to him, Aristotle used it as 
synonymous with ivepyeia. Hence Cicero translated 
it by continuous movement or agitation. Argvropo- 
lus blames Cicero for this, and explains it as meaning 
“interior perfection,” as if it were ro tvrvg reXtiovr. 
But Melancthon thinks Cicero's explanation in accord- 
ance with the philosophy of Aristotle. According to 
others, h'CtXLxtia means continuance , and is a totally 
different word from IvTtXkxLict, which means actuality 
(Arist. Metuphys. Bohn’s Libr. p. 68, 301 ; Donaldson, 
New Cratylus , p. 339-344). According to Leibnitz, 
“ entelecheia is derived apparently from the Greek word 
which signifies perfect , and therefore the celebrated 
Hermolaus Barbaras expressed it in Latin, word for 
word, b y perfectihabia, for act is the accomplishment of 
power ; and he needed not to have consulted the devil, 
as he did, they say, to tell him this much (Leibnitz, 
Theodicee, pt. i, § 87). You may give the name of 
entelechies to all simple substances or created monads, 
for they have in them a certain perfection (J\ovm to 
h'reXh), they have a sufficiency (no ropy ho) which, 
makes them the source of their internal actions, and, 
so to say, incorporeal automatons” {Monadologie, § 18). 
He calls a nomad an autarchic automaton, or first en - 
telechie, having life and force in itself. “ Entelethy is 
the opposite to potentiality, yet would he ill translated 
by that which we often oppose to potentiality, act- 
uality. EJIog expresses the substance of each thing 
viewed in repose — its form or constitution ; ivipytia its 
substance, considered as active and generative : Irre- 
Xe\tia seems to be the synthesis or harmony of these 
two ideas. The ejfectio of Cicero, therefore, repre- 
sents the most important side of it, but not the whole” 
(Maurice, Mor. and Metaphys. Philosojihy , p. 191, note). 
'ErrfAtyart ce qui a en soi sa fin, qui par consequent 
ne relcve que de soi-meme, et constituc une unite indi- 
visible (Cousin, note to his transl. of Aristotle, J\h taph. 
Ik. xii, p. 212). “ V Entelechie cst opposee h la simple 

puissance, comme la forme a la niatiere, Vetrc au pos- 
sible. C’cst clle qui, par la vertu de la fin, constitue 
I’cssence meme des clioses, et im prime le mouvement 
h la matiere avcugle ; ct e’est cn ce sens qu’ Aristote 
a pu donner de Fame cette celebre definition, qu’elle 
cst l’cntclcchie ou forme premiere dc tout corps natu- 
ral qui possede la vie en puissance” (Diet, des Scictiees 
Phi losoph iques) . Aristotle defines the soul of man to 
be an entelechy , a definition of which Dr. Reid said he 
could make no sense. — Fleming, Vocabulary of Philos- 
ophy, s. v. 

Entertainment (!i!n , r';, a “feast,” comp. £m- 
Z,io, to “entertain” a stranger, Heh. xiii, 2). This 
took place among the Hebrews sometimes in connec- 
tion with a public festival (Dent, xvi ; Tub. ii, 1) and 
accompanied by offerings [see Sacrificial Festi- 
val] (1 Sam. ix, 13; xvi, 3; 1 Kings i, 9; iii, 15; in 
token of alliance, Gen. xxvi, 30; xxxi, 54); some- 
times with a domestic or social occurrence, and, so far 
as the latter reference is concerned, they were chiefly 
held at the weaning of children (Gen. xxi, 8 ; comp. 
Roseumiiller, Morgcnl. vi, 243 sq.), at weddings (Gen. 
xxix, 22; Judg. xiv, 10; John ii, 1 sq.), on birthdays 
(Job q 4), particularly in royal courts (Gen. xl, 20 
[? Hos. vii, 5] ; Matt, xix, 6 ; comp. Herod, i, 133 ; ix, 
109; Lucian, Gall. 9; Athen. iv, 143; see Dougtaei 
Analect. i, 44; ii, 33; Lausent, De notalit. conriviisquc 


ENTERTAINMENT 


233 


ENTHUSIASM 


qucE in iisdem agitabantur, in Gronovii Thesaur . viii), 
on the reception and departure of dear friends or else 
respected personages (Gen. xix, 3 ; 2 Sam. iii, 20 ; xx, 
4; 2 Kings vi, 23; Tobit vii, 9; viii, 20 sq. ; 2 Macc. 
xvi, 15; 2 Macc. ii, 28; Luke v, 29 ; xv, 23 sq. ; John 
xii, 2), at sheepshearing (2 Sam. xiii, 23; 1 Sain, xxv, 
2, 36), and vintage (Judg. ix 27), also at funerals (2 
Sam. iii, 35; Jer. xvi, 7 ; Tob. iv, 18 [[the Crib 

of llos. ix, 4] ; comp. Josephus, War, ii, 1, 1 ; Homer, 
II. xxiii, 29; xxiv, 802; see Iiarmer, iii, 203), and 
mostly occurred in the evening (Josephus, Bar, i, 17, 
4). The guests were invited by servants (Prov. ix, 
3; Matt, xxii, 3 sq.), in more honorable instances a 
second time (Matt, xxii, 4 ; comp. Luke xiv, 7 ; comp. 
Eskuche, Erlduter . ii, 410 sq.), and these summoners 
(like the Homan vocatores or invitatores ) seem to have 
had the business of assigning the guests their relative 
position (Walch, Observ. in Matt, ex inscript, p. 62). 
On their arrival the guests were kissed (Tob. ix, 8; 
Luke vii, 45), their feet were washed (Luke vii, 44; 
comp. Homer, II. x, 576 sq. ; Odgss. iii, 476 ; viii, 454; 
Petron. Sat. 31 ; see Dougtad Anal, i, 52); the hair of 
their head and beard, even their clothes, oftentimes 
their feet (Luke vii, 38; John xii, 3; comp. Athen. 
xii, 553), anointed with costly oil (Psa. xxiii, 5 ; Amos 
vi, 6; comp. Homer, II. x, 577 ; Plutarch, Sympos . iii, 
6, p. 654 ; Petron. Sat. 65; Lucret. iv, 1125 ; see Walch, 
De unctionibus vet. Ebrceor. eonviviaWnis , Jen. 1751), 
and their persons decked with garlands, with which 
their head was especially adorned (Isa. xxviii, 1 ; 
Wisd. ii, 7 sq. ; comp. Joseph. Ant. xix, 9, 1 ; Athen. 
xv, 685; Plutarch, Sympos. iii, 1 p. 645; iii, 6, p. 654; 
Philostr. A poll, ii, 27 ; Aristoph. Av. 460; Horace, 0<1. 
ii, 7, 23; Sat. ii, 3, 256; Plautus, Memvchm. iii, 1, 16; 
Lucretius, iv, 1125 ; Juvenal, v, 36 ; Petron. 65 ; Ovid, 
Fast, v, 337); and then, with consideration to* the rank 
(Josephus, Ant. xv, 2, 4); comp. Meeker, Chavicles , i, 
427), they were assigned their respective places (1 Sam. 
ix, 22; Luke xiv, 8; Mark xii, 39; Philo, ii, 78; 
comp. Buckingham, Mesopot. i, 279). All received, 
as a rule, like portions sent by the master of the house 
(1 Sam. i, 4; 2 Sam. vi, 19; 1 Chron. xvi, 3; comp. 
Homer, Odgss. xx, 280 sq. ; II. xxiv, 626 ; Plutarch, 
Sympos. ii, 10, p. 642, 644), which, however; when spe- 
cial honor was intended, was doubled, or even in- 
creased fivefold (Gen. xliii, 34; comp. Herod, vi, 57), 
or a tid-bit sent in place of it (1 Sam. ix, 24 ; compare 
Homer, 11. vii, 321; see Koster, Erlduter. p. 197 sq.). 
The management of the entertainment was in the 
hands of the arcliitriclinus (q. v.) (John ii, 8), gener- 
ally a friend of the family (comp. Sir. xxxii, 1, 23; 
see Rosenmuller, Morgenl. v, 223). The pride of the 
entertainer exhibited itself partly in the number of 
the guests (Gen. xxix, 22; 1 Sam. ix, 22; 1 Kings i, 
9, 25; Luke v, 29; xiv, 16), partly in expense of the 
eating and drinking vessels (Esth. i, 6 sq. ; compare 
Curtins, viii, 12, 16 ; see Kype, De apparatu conviv. re- 
gis Persar. Kegiom. 1755), partly and especially in the 
variety and excellence of the viands (Gen. xxvii, 9; 
Isa. xxv, 6; Amos vi, 4; Job viii, 21; comp. Psa. 
xxiii, 5; Job xxviii, 16; Niebuhr, Trav. iii, 385), as 
well as their richness (Gen. xviii, 6; 1 Sam. ix, 24; 
Judg. vi, 19). Such banquets also lasted longer than 
with Occidentals (3 Macc.vi, 28; comp. Esth. i, 3 sq. ; 
Kosenmiiller, Morgenl. iii, 294), and in Persia weighty 
state interests were discussed and determinations 
reached at the royal table (Esth. i, 15 ; vii, 1 sq. ; He- 
rod. i, 113; Plutarch, Sympos. vii, 9; Ammian. Marc, 
xviii, 5, p. 169, Bip. ed. ; Athen. iv, 144 ; comp. Tacit. 
Germ. 22). The amusement consisted in part of music 
and song (Isa. v. 12; Amos vi, 5; Psa. lxix, 13; Sir. 
xxxii, 7; comp. Homer, Odyss. xvii, 358; Roscnmul- 
lcr, Morgenl. v, 200), also the dance (Matt, xiv, 6), in 
part of jests and riddles (Judg. xiv, 12 sq. ; compare 
Athen. x, 452, 457). At their departure the guests 
were again perfumed, especially on the beard (Maun- 


drell, p. 400 sq.). The women feasted on such occa- 
sions probably not with the men (Buckingham, ii, 
404), but in a separate apartment (Esth. i, 9; see Ho- 
senmtiller, Morgenl. iii, 296 ; Bachelor, Chron. p. 98 ; 
comp, the later meretricious custom, Dan. v, 2 ; Judith 
xii, 11 sq. ; Ilerod. v, IN); but in plebeian homes the 
sexes were intermingled (John xii, 8). The Israelites 
were forbidden heathenish sacrificial entertainments 
(Exod. xxxiv, 15; yet see Num. xxv, 1 sq.), partly 
because these were in honor of false worship, and part- 
ly because they would thus he liable to partake of un° 
clean flesh (1 Cor. x, 28). See Buxtorf, De conviv . 
Ebr. in Ugolini Thesaurus xxx ; Geier, De Vet. Ebr. 
ratione canandi , in the Biblioth. Lubec. vi. sq. ; Stuck, 
Antiquit, conviv. (Tigur. 1597); Mercurial, De arte 
gymnast, p. 75 sq. ed. Amst. See Meal-time. 

An especial sort of entertainment were the Kiopoi y 
or comissationes (“rcvellings”), which played so con- 
spicuous a part in the sensual times during which the 
apostles labored (Horn, xiii, 13 ; Gal. v, 21 ; 1 Pet. iv, 
3). Young men assembled to banqnetings on festival 
occasions, or in the crowd of public associations, be- 
came excited with song or music, and traversed the 
streets inspired with wine, jubilating, and committing 
many extravagances (comp. Wetstein, ii, 85 sq. ; Bos, 
Observ. in A r . T. p. 117 sq. ; Schwarz, De comessatione 
vet. Altdorf, 1744; Ilgcn, De poesi scol. p. 197 sq. ; 
Aptilej. ed. Oudenorp. i, 133 sq.). On the luxury and 
wantonness of entertainments generally in the Iioman 
period, see Philo, ii, 477 sq. The rich Jews followed 
the example of their pagan masters. — Winer, i, 391. 
See Feast. 

Enthusiasm (tVOonutoo^oc, from u ' 9 zoq , inspired ; 
God-possessed; rapt) is used both in a good and a bad 
sense. 

1. In the first, which springs from its derivation, it 
signifies divine inspiration in general; or, secondari- 
ly, any extraordinary mental or moral exaltation. 
“The raptures of the poet, the deep meditations of the 
philosopher, the heroism of the warrior, the devoted- 
ness of the martyr, and the ardor of the patriot, arc so 
many different phases of enthusiasm.'' 1 In this sense it 
“ is almost a synonj T me of genius ; the moral life in the 
intellectual light, the will in the reason ; and without 
it, says Seneca, nothing truly great was ever achiev- 
ed'’ (Coleridge). “ There is a temper of mind called 
enthusiasm, which, though rejecting the authority 
neither of reason nor of virtue, triumphs over all the 
vulgar infirmities of men, contemns their ordinary 
pursuits, braves danger, and despises obloquy, which 
is the parent of heroic acts and devoted sacrifices, and 
which devotes ease, pleasure, interest, ambition, and 
life to the service of one’s fellow-men” (Mackintosh, 
Miscellaneous 1 Boris, Lond. 1851, p. 731). 

2. The bad sense of the word was formerly in much 
more common use than now. According to it, an en- 
thusiast is one who substitutes his own fancies for rea- 

i son and truth, especially in matters of religion. “Ev- 
ery enthusiast is properly a madman ; yet his is not an 
ordinary, but a religious madness. The enthusiast is 
generally talking of religion, of God, or of the things 
of God, but talking in such a manner that any rea- 
sonable Christian may discern the disorder of his 
mind. Such enthusiasm may be described, in gener- 
al, as a religious madness arising from some falsely 
imagined influence or inspiration of God; at least, 
from imputing something to God which ought not to 
be imputed to him, or expecting something from God 
which ought not to be expected from him (W eslev, 
Sermon on Enthusiasm , 1 Boris, ii, 331 sq.). War bur- 
ton similarly defines enthusiasm as “that temper of 
mind in which the imagination has got the better of 
the judgment” ( Div . Leg. bk. v, Appendix). James 
Blair (Sermons, 1740, iv, 274) makes religious enthu- 
siasm to consist especially in “setting up the private 
spirit to assert anything contrary to Scripture.” So 
Waterland (Boris, Oxford, 1843, iv, 422) says that 


ENTITY 


234 


EPACT 


“enthusiasm, in the bad sense, is a subtle device of 
Satan upon ill-meaning or unmeaning instruments, 
making use of their ambition, self-admiration, or other 
weakness, to draw them by some plausible suggestions 
into a vain conceit that they have something within 
them either of equal authority with {Scripture, or su- 
perior to it.” On the stupid misapplication of the term 
enthusiasm bv worldly men to designate true Chris- 
tian life, see Wesley’s sermon above, and also Taylor, 
Natural Hist, of Enthusiasm (N. V. 1834, 4th ed. 12mo). 

Entity (entitas'), ii in the scholastic philosophy, was 
synonymous with essence or form. To all individuals 
of a species there is something in common — a nature 
which transiently invests all, but belongs exclusively 
to none. This essence, taken by itself and viewed 
apart from any individual, was what the scholastics 
called an entity. It denoted the common nature of 
the individuals of a species or genus. It was the idea 
or model according to which we conceived of them. 
The question whether there was a reality correspond- 
ing to this idea divided philosophers into Nominalists 
and Realists (q. v.). Entity is also used to denote any- 
thing that exists, as an object of sense or of thought. 
See Exs.” — Fleming, l "ocabulary of Philosophy, p. 1G2. 

Entrance into the Church. Certain ceremo- 
nies early grew into use as signs of reverence on the 
part of Christians on entering the church building. 
They washed their hands and faces in the fountains or 
cisterns which were generally found in the atrium or 
court before the church ; probably referring to the 
Psalmist's expression, U I will wash my hands in in- 
nocency: so will I compass thine altar.” Many took 
off their shoes or sandals, especially when they went 
to receive the Eucharist; interpreting as applicable to 
themselves the command to Moses, Put off thy shoes 
from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest 
is holy ground.” In some instances bowing towards 
the altar was practised; and when emperors or kings 
went into the house of God, they not only left their 
arms and guard, but also their crowns, behind them. 
It was also not uncommon for men to kiss the doors, 
threshold, or pillars in token of their love. The germ 
of many of the absurd practices and ceremonies of the 
Homan Catholic Church may be found in these cus- 
toms. — Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; Bingham, Orig. Ec- 
cles. bk. viii, ch. x, § 12. 

Entwisle, Joseph, a Wesleyan Methodist min- 
ister, was born in Manchester, England, April 15, 17G7. 
At sixteen he began to preach, and in 1787 Mr. Wesle} r 
called him into the itinerant ministry. He devoted 
himself to his work, studying theology, under many 
difficulties, and also the ancient languages. lie filled 
acceptably a number of the most important appoint- 
ments, and in 1812 was chosen president of the Con- 
ference. In 1831 he was made governor of the Wes- 
leyan rheological Institution, in which office he re- 
mained until 1838, when his infirm health compelled 
him to retire, lie died at Tudcaster in 1841. See 
Memoir of the Per. Joseph Entwisle , by his Son (Loud. 
1850, 12mo); Methodist Quarterly Review, April, 1851, 
p. 305. 

Enzinas, or Encinas de, Francisco, a Span- 
ish Protestant, was horn at Burgos about 1520. lie is 
commonly named Drvander, and also used tbe names 
Duchesne, Van Eyck, Eiehman, all of the same mean- 
ing ( oak-man ) as the Spanish name Enzinas. After 
completing his academical studios in Italy, he went to 
Louvain, and studied there, and also spent some time 
with Melanethon at Wittemberg. Having wealthy 
relatives in the Netherlands, lie fixed his abode there, 
and openly embraced the Deformed cause. lie pub- 
lished a Spanish version of the N. T., dedicated to 
Charles V (1513). lie was arrested Dec. 13,- 1543, and 
imprisoned at Brussels. Ilejescaped in February, 1515, 
to Antwerp, thence to Germany and England (1548), 
He carried letters of commendation from Melanethon 


to Edward VI and to Cranmer, who received him 
warmly, and gave him a post at Oxford. After some 
time he returned to the Continent, and continued his 
literary labors at Strasburg, Basle, and Geneva. lie 
died about 1570. — McCrie, Reformation in Spain, ch. 
v ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gent rale, xv, 122. 

Enzinas de, Jayme, a Spanish Protestant, 
brother of the preceding (known, like his brother, by 
the name Drvander), studied at Louvain and Paris, 
and embraced Deformed principles. At the request of 
his father he returned to Italy, and remained there in 
great uneasiness for some years. He was preparing 
to rejoin his brother in Germany when he was de- 
nounced before the Inquisition as a heretic. He was 
tried, condemned, and burnt alive in 154G. — McCrie, 
Reformation in Sqrnin, ch. v. 

Eon, or Eudo de Stella, a fanatic nobleman 
who lived in the middle of the 12th century. He was 
a native of the Bretagne, and a man without educa- 
tion. In the form used in exorcising evil spirits he 
heard these words, u per Eum , qui venturus est judicare 
vivos et mortuos ,” and concluded, from the resemblance 
between the word Eum and his own name, that he was 
the person who should judge the quick and the dead. 
II is views seem to be connected with those of the Ca- 
thari. lie is said to have taught that baptism was of 
value only for believers; that the only true baptism 
was that of the Spirit by the imposition of hands ; that 
the hierarchy had not been instituted by God ; that 
the Church of Dome was not the true Church, because 
her priests did not lead a holy life. He denied the res- 
nrrection of the body, and rejected marriage as a sac- 
rament. He went about preaching these doctrines, 
found many adherents, and was reported to possess the 
power of working miracles. In 1145 the cardinal- 
legate Albericus came from Ostia to the Bretagne, and 
preached against Eon and his adherents at Nantes. 
He also induced aichbishop Hugo, of Rouen, to write a 
work against him, which is, however, rather a diffuse 
explanation of the doctrines of the Church of Dome 
than a refutation of Eon ( Dogmatum Christ ianee fidei 
contra licereticos sui temporis libri tres ; Bibl. Patrum 
Max. tom. xxii). At the same time troops were sent 
out against the new heretics, and in the diocese of 
Alct many were burned. Eon withdrew into the 
province of Guienne; in 1148 he repaired to Cham- 
pagne, where his band was scattered, and he, together 
with some of his prominent adherents, was captured. 
He was taken before the council at Dheims, and asked 
who he was. lie replied, Is qui venturus est judicare 
vivos et mortuos. The synod declared him to be insane, 
and charged the archbishop of Dheims to take care 
of him. Many of his followers were sentenced to be 
burned. After Eon’s death the sect soon died out. — 
Schmidt, in Herzog’s Real-EncyJclop. iv, 212; Wetzer 
u.Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iii, G02; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. bk. 
iii, cent, xii, pt. iii, ch. v, § 1G; Gieseler, Ch. Hist. per. 
iii, div. iii, ch. vii, § 84. (A. J. S.) 

Eon. See Gnosticism. 

Eonian. See Eox. 

Eoquinians, a sect of the 10th century; so called 
from one Eoquimis, who taught that Christ did not 
die for the wicked, but for the faithful only. — Buck, 
Theol. Dictionary, s. v. 

Epact, u in chronology, is the excess of the solar 
month above the lunar synodical month; or of the 
solar year above the lunar year of twelve synodical 
months; or of several solar months above as many 
synodical months; or of several solar years above as 
many periods, each consisting of 12 synodical months. 
The menstrual epact is the excess of the civil calendar 
mouth above the lunar month. For a month of 31 
days, this epact is 1 day 11 hours 15 minutes 57 sec- 
onds, if we suppose new moon to occur on the first day 
of the month. The annual epact is the excess of the 


EP^KETUS 


235 


EPAPHRAS 


solar year above the lunar. As the Julian solar year 
is (nearly) 3G5 (lays, and the Julian lunar j’-eav is 
(nearly) 354 days, the annual epact is nearly 11 days. 
The epact for two Julian years is, therefore, nearl} T 22 
days; for three years, 33 days; and so on. When, 
however, the epact passes 31) days, 30 falls to be de- 
ducted from it, as making an intercalary month. For 
three years, then, the epact is properly 3; and for 4 
years, adding 11 days, it is 14 days; and so on. Fol- 
lowing the cycle, starting from a new moon on the 1st 
of January, we lind that the epact becomes 30 or 0 in 
the 19th year. The epact for the 20th year is again 
11 ; and so on. The years in the cycle are marked 
by Iloman numerals I, II, III, etc., called the Golden 
Numbers; and a table of the Julian epacts exhibits 
each year in the cycle with its golden number and 
epact. As the Gregorian year (see Calendar) differs 
from and is in advance of the Julian by 11 days (the 
number lost on the Julian account before the Gregori- 
an computation of time was introduced in England), 
and as 11 days is the difference between the solar and 
lunar years, it follows tliac the Gregorian epact for any 
year is the same with the Julian epact for the year 
preceding it” (Chambers, Encyclopedia, s. v.). 

Epasn'etus (’E7ran'frot,*, commendable), a Chris- 
tian resident at Home when Paul wrote his epistle to 
the Church in that city, and one of the persons to 
whom he sent special salutations (Horn, xvi, 5). A.D. 
55. In the received text he is spoken of as being “ the 
Jirst-fruits of Achuia” (parapyp TWj’Ayaiac); but “the 
first-fruits of Asia*’ (rpQ ’Aoiaij) is the reading of the 
best MSS. (XABCDEFG 67), of the Coptic, Arme- 
nian, ^Ethiopie, Vulgate, the Latin fathers, and Origen 
( In Ep. ad Rom. Comment, lib. x, Opera , vii, p. 431 ; In 
A "inner. Horn, xi, Opera, x, p. 109). This reading is 
preferred by Grotius, Mill, Bengel, Whitby, Koppe, Bo- 
senmiiller, Hiickert, Olshausen, and Iholuck; and ad- 
mitted into the text by Gricsbach, Knapp, Tittmann, 
Sebolz, Lachmann, and Tischendorff ; also bv Bruder, 
in bis edition of Schmidt’s Concordance, Lips, 1842. 
Dr. Bloomfield, who also adopts it in his Greek Testa- 
ments (2d ed. 1836), remarks that “the very nature of 
the term cmapyrj suggests the idea of one person only 
(see 1 Cor. xv, 20), and, as in 1 Cor. xvi, 15, Stephanas 
is called the dirapyi] Ti)Q ’Ayatctc, Epametus could 
have no claim to the name.” With respect to the for- 
mer part of this statement, the learned writer has 
strangely overlooked such passages as James i, 18, 
“that we should be a kind of first-fruits” («7rnjO\/;r 
riva), and Bev. xiv, 4, “ These were redeemed from 
among men, being the first-fruits” («7rapy//) : and as 
to the latter part, not Stephanas alone, but bis house, 
is said to be the first-fruits, and to have addicted them- 
selves (t-aZav lav-rove) to the ministry of the saints.’ 
Mackniglit's remark in favor of the received reading, 
that if Epametus was one of that house, he was a part 
of the first-fruits of Aehaia, seems somewhat forced. 
The synopsis of the pseudo-Dorotheus makes him first 
bishop of Carthage, but Justinian remarks that the 
African churches do not recognise him. — Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. 

Epaon, Synod of, Concilium Epaonense or Epau- 
neuse, a general synod of the Catholic bishops of Bur- 
gundy, held in 517. A great change in the relation 
of the Catholic Church of Burgundy to the state gov- 
ernment took place in 516, when the new king Sig- 
mond, son of the Arian king Gundobald, joined it. 
The Catholic Church thus became the State Church, 
though it does not appear that Sigmond, like so many 
kings of his times, aspired to exercise a controlling 
influence upon Church affairs. The Council of Epaon, 
which was to establish Church discipline in the new 
Catholic kingdom upon a permanent basis, was not 
called by the king, but by Avitus, bishop of Vienne, 
and Viventiolus, metropolitan of Lyons. The letters 
of both bishops are still extant. That of Viventiolus 


is addressed to all bishops, clergymen, lords, and nota- 
bles of the land, complains of want of discipline among 
the clergy, and invites every one who has to bring 
charges against the moral conduct of any clergyman 
to appear before the council. The clergymen are com- 
manded to be present, and the laymen are permitted 
to attend in order that the people may receive infor- 
mation of what the bishops will decree. The letter of 
Avitus complains that the Church law ordering the 
holding of two synods every year had entirely fallen 
into disuse, and states that he had been censured 1 v 
the Fope on this account, and had been commanded to 
j assemble a synod, to renew and enforce the old Church 
laws, as far as they were still applicable, and to add, 
if necessary, new ones. As no such censure can be 
j found in a letter of the Pope to Avitus, written in Feb. 
517, nor in any other papal letter extant, it lias been 
inferred (Vogel, in Herzog’s Rcal-Enycklop. s. v.) that 
Avitus, in order to secure the meeting of the council, 
used the papal authority to a greater extent than lie 
was authorized to do. In compliance with the letters 
of invitation, 24 bishops appeared personally at Epaon, 
and one sent representatives. Their deliberations 
were of but short duration, and on Sept. 14, 517, the 
bishops signed the acts upon which, “under divine in- 
spiration,” they had agreed. The acts consist of a 
brief preface and 40 canons which concern the conduct 
of bishops, clergymen, monks, secular authorities, and 
laymen, the intercourse with the Arian heretics, the 
property and discipline of the Church. r i he provis- 
ions concerning the heretics are of special importance. 
Catholic clergymen, under severe penalties, are forf id- 
den to sit at table with heretics. With a Jew no lay- 
man shall dine, under penalty of being never admitted 
to a clergyman’s table. Heretics who wish to join the 
Church must apply to the bishops personally ; only 
when they are on the death-bed they may be received 
by a priest. The church edifices of the heretics are 
declared to be objects worthy of special horror, and 
their purification is declared impossible. The SOt.li 
canon forbids marriages with near relatives, in partic- 
ular with the sister of a deceased wife. This canon 
directly concerned a prominent officer at the royal 
court, Stephanas, who was married to his sister-in- 
law Palladia. The bishops seem to have anticipated 
trouble from the opposition of Stephanas, for, after the 
dissolution of the Council of Epaon, eleven bishops, 
among whom was Apollinaris, bishop of Valence and 
brother of Avitus, went to Lyons, where, under the 
presidency of Viventiolus, they agreed upon a line of 
conduct for the enforcement of the canon, providing 
even for the case that the king should leave the 
Church, and appoint Arian bishops for seme of the 
episcopal sees. 

A part of the canons of Epaon remained in force in 
Southern France, as canons of the Council of Agde 
( ' u Agathensfs ' , ‘ ). This council had been held in 504, 
and established 47 canons, to which subsequently, for 
the purpose of obtaining a complete code of discipline, 
24 canons of other councils were added ; of these 24, 
13 were taken from the Council of Epaon. 

The site of Epaon cannot be established with cer- 
tainty. According to seme, it is the little town of 
Yenne, in Savoy, on the left bank of the Phone ; ac- 
cording to others, a little village, Ponas, about half 
way between Lyons and Vienne. — Herzog, Recd-Ency- 
klop, iv, 75; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Ler. iii, 603; 
llcfele, Concilien gesch i< htc , ii. 660 ; London. Manual of 
Councils, p. 224 ; Mansi, Coll. Concil. viii, 310 ; Labbe, 
Dissertatio de Concil. Epaunensi. (A. J. S.) 

Ep'aphras (’E7 t cappciip usually considered a con- 
traction of Epaphroditus, but the last syllable in that 
case is hardly regular), an eminent teacher in the 
Church at Colossje, denominated by Paul “his dear 
fellow-servant,” and “a faithful minister ( [cidicovog ) 
of Christ” (Coloss, i, 7 ; iv, 12). A.D. 57. It has 
been inferred from Coloss, i, 7 that he was the found- 


E P API I R ODITUS 


236 


EPHAH 


er of the Colossian Chureli ; and Dr. Neandcr supposes 
that the apostle terms him V7rtn ypio v CuiKOYop Xoicr- 
toi< (a servant of Christ in our stead) because lie com- 
mitted to him the oflice of proclaiming the Gospel in 
the three Phrygian cities Colossai, Hierapolis, and La- 
odicea, which he could not visit himself (Hist, of Plant- 
ing, i, 209, 373). This language, however, is by no 
means decisive ; yet most probably Epaphras was one 
of the earliest and most zealous instructors of the Co- 
lossian Church (see Alford's prolegomena to that epis- 
tle, Gr. Test, iii, 35 sq.). Lardner thinks that the ex- 
pression respecting Epaphras in Coloss, iv, 32, o 
vfiibv, is quite inconsistent with the supposition of his 
being the founder of the Church, since the same phrase 
is applied to Onesimus, a recent convert (Hist, of the 
Apostles and Evangelists , c. xiv ; TPor&s, vi, 153). But 
in both cases the words in question seem intended sim- 
ply to identify these individuals as the fellow-towns- 
men of t lie Colossians, and to distinguish them from 
others of the same name in Borne (see Macknight on 
Coloss, iv, 2). lie was at that time with Paul at 
Borne (Coloss, iv, 12), and seems by the expression 
there used to have been at least a Colossian by birth. 
AVe tiiul him again mentioned in the epistle to Phile- 
mon (ver. 23), which was sent at the same time as that 
to the Colossi ms. Paul there calls him o cr vvai\pa- 
Xcotoq gov, mg fellow-prisoner ; but some regard the 
word there as only a tender and delicate expression of 
Epaphras ’s attention to the apostle in his imprison- 
ment (comp. Rom. xvi, 13). The martyrologies make 
Epaphras to have been first bishop of Colossae, and to 
have suffered martyrdom there. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, 
s. v.. See Erapiiropitus. 

Epaphrodi'tus ( ’E7ra0p6(Vor, belonging to 
Ajihrodite, or Venus), a messenger («7rd<7-o\or) of the 
Church at Philippi to the apostle Paul during his im- 
prisonment at Rome, who was intrusted with their 
contributions for bis support (Phil, ii, 25 ; iv, 18). A.D. 
57. Paul’s high estimate of his character (see Evans, 
Script. Biog. ii, 300) is shown by an aeemn illation of 
honorable epithets (tov ddtX(j)6v, icai avvtpyov, ual 
av(TTpaTU 0 T>iv gov), and by fervent expressions of 
gratitude for his recovery from a dangerous illness 
brought on in part by a generous disregard of his per- 
sonal welfare in ministering to the apostle (Phil, ii, 
30). Epaphroditus, on his return to Philippi, was the 
bearer of the epistle which forms part of t lie canon. 
Grotius and some other critics conjecture that Epaph- 
roditus was the same as the Epaphras mentioned in 
the epistle to the Colossians (spc Sirk, Be Epaphrodito 
Phili ppensium apostolo, Lips. 1741 ; Strohbaeh, Be Epa- 
phra Colossensi, Lips. 1710). But, though the latter 
name may be a contraction of the former, the fact that 
Epaphras was most probably in prison at the time, suf- 
ficiently marks the distinction of the persons. The 
name Epaphroditus was by no means uncommon (see 
Tacit. Ann. xv, 55; Sueton. Bomit. 14; Joseph. Life, 
70), as Wetstein has shown (Nov. Test. Gr. ii, 273). — 
Kitto, s. v. 

Eparch (t7rap\o£, ruler over a district), a com- 
mander (e. g. of vessels, /Esehvlus, Ag. 1227), hence 
prafect of a pro vince (comp. i—ap\ia , Acts xxiii, 24 ; 
xxv, 3) ; applied as a title to Sisinnes (q. v.), the Per- 
sian satrap of Syria (1 Esdr. vii, 1, “ governor”). See 
Topaiscii v, etc. 

Eparchy Q 7ran\l a) was the official term of a prov- 
ince in the administration of the Roman empire. It 
conshted of a number of communities, and was a sub- 
division of a diocese (ciohcpaic). In the organization 
of the Church, the ecclesiastical heads of communities 
were called bishops, those of the capitals of eparchies, 
metropolitans ; those of the dioceses, patriarchs. The 
term eparchy is thus used in can. 4 of the Council of 
Kire, and by Macarius of Aneyra (Suieer, Thesaur. Ec- 
m s. v.). The meaning of the term was subsequently 
changed in the Greek Church, so as to denote, in gen- 


eral, the diocese of any bishop, archbishop, or metro* 
politan). In Russia the eparchies are divided into 
three classes, the first of which comprised in 18GG the 
four metropolitan sees of Petersburg, Moscow, Kiev, 
and Novgorod ; the second twenty sees, the incum- 
bents of which, with the exception of one, had the 
title archbishop; the third twenty-nine sees, six of 
which had the title archbishop, while the others were 
merely bishops. Eparchies can be transferred at the 
pleasure of the czar from one class to the other. — Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 80; AVetzer u.AVelte, Kirchen - 
Lex. iii, G04 ; Churchman s Calendar for 1868. See 
Greek. Ciiurcii and Russia. (A. J. S.) 

Epee, Charles Michel i>e L’, born in A^ersailles 
Nov. 25, 1712, was distinguished for his labors in be- 
half of the deaf and dumb. He entered into orders as 
, a Roman Catholic priest, but, having been interdicted 
from the exercise of his functions, he devoted himself 
to the care of deaf mutes. Two young girls, mutes, 
had been under the care of father A r anin, at whose 
death L’Epee took charge of them. From this time 
his talents, time, and property -were all consecrated 
to this cause. He framed a series of signs (the basis 
of the system now in use), and bis success induced the 
due de Penthievre and others to aid him. He organ- 
ized an asylum, which, after his death, was taken un- 
1 der the patronage of the French government, and placed 
under Sicard (q. v.\ the worthy successor of L’Epee. 
He died at Paris Dec. 23, 1789. His writings give 
full accounts of his method; among them are Institu- 
tion des Sourds et des Muets, 1774, 12mo; enlarged 
edition, 177G, 12mo ; and again improved, 1784, 12mo. 

I See especially his Art d'enseigner a purler aitx Sourds- 
J I nets, with notes by Sicard, and the eloge of L’Epee 
by M. Bebian (Paris, 1820, 8voj. — Hoefer, A our. Biog . 
Gener. xxx, 829; 

Epefanoftschins, a Russian sect, followers of a 
monk of Kiev, who was ordained bishop through 
] forged letters of recommendation. He died in prison, 
but is esteemed a martyr by bis followers. Their 
sentiments are nearly the same as the Starohredsi, or 
Old Ceremonialists. — Pinkerton’s Greek Church, p. 
304; AVilliams, cited by Buck, Theological Dictionary. 
See Russia: Russian Sects. 

Epen'etus. Sec Eivenetus. 

E'phah (Heb. Eyphah gloom), the name 
of a tribe (including that of the founder), also of a 
woman and of a man. 

1. (Sept. Yt<pdp v. r. in Chron. Yaifyap, Isa. Yaapd.) 
The first in order of the five sons of Midian (Gen. xxv, 
4^ 1 Chron. i, 33), B.C. cir. 1988; afterwards men- 
tioned by Isaiah in the following words: “The mul- 
titude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of 
Alidian and Ephah : all they from Sheba shall come : 
they shall bring gold and incense ; and they shall show 
forth the praises of the Lord. All the flocks of Kedar 
shall be gathered together unto thee, the rams of Ne- 
baioth shall minister unto thee : they shall come up 
with acceptance on mine altar, and 1 will glorify the 
house of my glory” (Isa. lx, 6, 7). This passage 
clearly connects the descendants of Ephah with the 
Midianites, the. Keturahite Sheba, and the Ishmael- 

■ ites, both in the position of their settlements and in 
their wandering habits, and shows that, as usual, they 
formed a tribe bearing bis name. But no satisfactory 
identification of this tribe has been discovered. The 
Arabic word Gheyf h, which has been supposed to be 
the same as Ephah, is the ndme of a town, or village, 
near Pelusium, or Bulbevs (the modern Bilbeys), a 
place in Egypt, in the province of Sharkiyeh, not far 
from Cairo; but the tradition that Ephah settled in 
Africa does not rest on sufficient authority. — Smith, 
s. v. See Midian. 

2. (Sept. Yaapd.) A concubine of Caleb, of the 
tribe of Judah, by whom she had several sons (1 

i Chron. ii, 4G). B.C. post 185G. 


EPHAH 


237 


EPHESIANS 


3 . (Sept. Vai(pa.') A son of Jahdai, who was ap- 
parently the grandson of the oldest of the foregoing 
sons (1 Chron. ii, 47). B.C. long post 185G. 

Ephah (HE^iS, eyphah* , rarely HEX, ephah''), a 
measure of grain, containing “ three seahs or ten omers ,” 
and equivalent in capacity to the bath for liquids (Exod. 
xvi, 3G; 1 Sam. xvii, 17; Zech. v, G; Judg. vi, 19; 
Ruth ii, 17 ; the “ double ephah,” Prov. xx, 10 ; Dent, 
xxv, 14; Amos viii, 5, means two ephahs, the one 
just, the other false). According to Josephus (Ant, 
viii, 2, 9), the ephah contained 72 sextarii, equal to 
the Attic (liquid) metretes, or 1933.95 Paris cubic 
inches, about ly^ bushels English (see Bockh, Metro - 
Inf/. Untersuch. p. 259, 278). This is also confirmed by 
other testimony ; so that there is doubtless an error 
in another passage of Josephus (Ant. xv, 9, 2), where 
the ephah seems to be equal to 9G sextarii, or the At- 
tic medimnus. The origin of this word is to be sought 
in the Egyptian language, where it signifies a measure , 
especially of corn, from which comes the Sept, render- 
ing oi (see Rddiger, in Ally. Encyklop. s. v. ; Gese- 
nius, Thes. Liny. Ileb. in Append.). Sec Measures. 

E'phai (Heb. Eyphay , [text for ‘’Bl?, 
Ophay~\, languid , hence gloomy ; Sept. Toj 0£ v. r. ’Qcps, 
X and Vulg. Ophi), a Netophathite, whose 

sons were among the “captains (B^b) of the forces” 
left in Judah after the deportation to Babylon, and 
who warned the Babylonian governor of the plots 
against him (Jer. xl, 8). B.C. 588. They submitted 
themselves to Gedaliah, the Babylonian governor, and 
were apparently massacred with him by Ishmael (xli, 
3 ; comp, xl, 13). 

Epheh. See Viper. 

E'pher (Heb. id. “*.B?, the gopher , go called from 
its gray or ashy color), the name of a tribe (including 
that of its founder) and of two men. 

1. (Sept. v. r. 'O0fip, in Chron. Vulg. 

Opher and Ephcri) The second in order of the sons 
of Midian (Gen. xxv, 4; 1 Chron. i, 33), Abraham’s 
son by Keturah. B.C. post 1988. According to Gc- 
senius, the name is equivalent to the Arabic Ghifr , 
signifying “a calf,” and “a certain little animal, or 
insect, or animalcule.” Two tribes bear a similar 
appellation, Ghifar ; but one was a branch of the first 
Amalek, the other of the Ishmaelite Kinaneli (comp. 
Caussin, Essai snr V Hist, des A rabes, i, 20, 297, 298; 
and Abulfeda, 1 list. Anteislamica, edit. Fleischer, p. 
19G): neither is ascribed to Midian. The first settled 
about Yethrib (El-Medineh) ; the second in the neigh- 
borhood of Mekkeh. — Smith, s. v. See Midian. 

2 . (Sept. 'A0cp v. r. lY/0tp, Vulg. Eplicr.') The 
third son of Ezra, a descendant of the tribe of Judah, 
and apparently of Caleb, the son of Jephunneh (1 
Chron. iv, 17). B.C. cir. 1618. 

3 . (Sept. Vulg. Epher .) The head of one of 

the families of Manasseh east, who were carried away 
by Tiglath-Pileser (1 Chron. v, 24). B.C. ante 740. 
The name may be compared with that of Ophrah (q. 
v.), the native place of Gideon, in Manasseh, on the 
west of Jordan. 

E'phes-dam'mim (Ileb. E'phes Dammini , 

appar. boundary of blood ; Sept. ’Acpsocopiu or 
'A<pt(Tcof(/aiv v. r. ’Etptppor, Vulg. fines Domini «), a 
place in the tribe of Judah between Shochoh and Aze- 
kah, where the Philistines w'ere encamped when David 
fought with Goliath (1 Sam. xvii, 1). The similar, 
but not parallel passage (1 Chron. xi, 13), has the 
shorter form Pas-Dammim. The name was probably 
derived from its being the scene of frequent sangui- 
nary encounters between Israel and the Philistines. 
On his way from Beit-Jibrin to Jerusalem, Van de 
Velde came past a ruined site on the high northward- 
looking brow of wady Musur, about one hour E. by 
S. of Beit-Netif, called Khirbet Damun , which he has 


no doubt represents the ancient Ephes-Dammim, and 
“which fixes the place of the camp of Goliath just at 
its foot, where the valley contracts, and may, indeed, 
be called the pass [or extremity] of Dammim” (Mt- 
wo/r, p. 290). In that case the narrative of 1 8am, 
xvii, becomes plain : “the gorge” (N*5il) between the 
battle-lines of the two armies (ver. 3), and along which 
the first rout and pursuit occurred (ver. 52), -was no 
other than the wady Musur itself, which is so narrow 
immediately at this spot. See Elaii (Valley of). 

Ephe'sian (’E^fcnoc;), a native or resident of the 
city of Ephesus (q. v.), in Asia Minor (Acts xix, 28, 
34, 35 ; xxi, 29). The similar adj. Ephcsine (’E^cot- 
ro£, “ of Ephesus”) also occurs (Rev. ii, 1). 

EPHESIANS, Epistle to, or Paul’s letter ad- 
dressed to the Christian Church at the ancient and fa- 
mous city of Ephesus (see below), that church which 
the apostle had himself fonnded (Acts xix, 1 sq. ; comp, 
xviii, 19), with which he abode so long (rpieriav, Acts 
xx, 31), and from the elders of which he parted with 
such a warm-hearted and affecting farewell (Acts xx, 
18-35). See Paul. 

I. Authenticity. — This epistle expressH 7- claims to be 
the production of the apostle Paul (i, 1 ; iii, 1) ; and 
this claim the writer, in the latter of these passages, 
follows up by speaking of himself in language such as 
that apostle is accustomed to use in describing his own 
position as an ambassador of Christ (iii, 1, 3, 8, 9). 
The justice of this claim seems to have been universal- 
ly admitted by the early Christians, and it is expressly 
sanctioned by several of the fathers of the second and 
third centuries (Irenams, culv. J/ccr.x , 2, 3; v, 14, 3; 
Clemens Alexandr. Padngog. i. 108 ; Protrept. ix, GO, 
ed. Potter; Strom, iv, 8, p. 592; Origen, cent. Cels. 
iii, 20; iv, 211, ed. Spencer; Tertullian, adv. Marc. 
v, 11, 17; De Prcescr. JJcer. ch. 3G; Cyprian, Testim. 
iii, 7, etc.); and after them the constant and persistent 
tradition of the ancient Church. Even Marc-ion did 
not deny that the epistle was written by Paul, nor did 
heretics refuse occasionally to cite it as confessedly due 
to him as its author (Irenam*, liter. i, 8, 5; see Hug, 
Jntrod. Fosdick’s transl. p. 551 ; Hippolytus, Ihiloso- 
phumena , vi, 34). In recent times, however, its gen- 
uineness has been somewhat vehemently called in 
question. The epistle is also cited as part of sacred 
Scripture by Polycarp (Ip. ad Philipp, c. 1 ; c. 12) ; 
and it is probably to it that Ignatius refers in writing 
to the Ephesians (e. 12; compare Cotelerii Annot. in 
loc. ; Pearson, Yind. Ignaiian. pt. ii, p. 119; Eardner’s 
IPoi’A’s, ii, 70, 8vo). De Wette has attempted, from 
internal evidence, to set aside this external proof of 
the Pauline origin of this epistle ; but his cavils have 
been so fully and satisfactorily answered 1 v Schott 
(I sag. in X. T. p. 2G0), Guerike (Bdtriice zur hist. hit. 
Einkitung ins X. T. p. 10G), llemsen (Dir Ap. Paulus , 
p. 130), Riickert (Der Br. Pauli an die Epheser , p.289), 
and others, that later De Wette himself, Loth in the 
introductory pages of his Commentary on this epistle 
(ed. 2, 1847), and in his Introduction to the X. T. (ed. 
5, 1848), only labors to prove that it is a mere spirit- 
I:ss expansion of the epistle to the Colossians, though 
compiled in the apostolic age. Schwegler (Xacha- 
post. Zcitalt. ii, 330 sq.), Baur ( Paulus , p. 418 sq.), and 
others advance a step farther, and reject both epistles 
as of no higher antiquity than the age cf Montanism 
and early Gnosticism. The objections adduced are 
chiefly the following : 1. The absence of any friendly 
greetings in this epistle, coupled with what are alleged 
to be indications of want of previous acquaintance on 
the part of the w riter with the Ephesians, facts which, 
it is asserted, are incompatible with the supposition 
that it w'as written by Paul, wiiose relations with the 
Ephesian Church were so intimate. 2. The occur- 
rence of words, and phrases, and sentiments, which 
indicate acquaintance with those Gnostic ideas which 
w r ere familiar only at a period much later than that of 


EPHESIANS 


238 


EPHESIANS 


the apostle. 3. The close resemblance of this epistle 
to t lie epistle to the Colossians, suggesting that the 
former is only an enlargement of the latter. The first 
of these objections may be passed by here, as the alle- 
gations on which it rests will be particularly consid- 
ered when we come to t he question of the destination 
of the epistle : at present it may suffice to cite the re- 
mark of Beuss in reference to the unreasonableness of 
such objections: “If Paul writes simple letters of 
friendship, they are pronounced insignificant, and so 
spurious, because there is a want of the didactic char- 
acter in them ; and, on the other hand, if this prevails, 
there is proof of the spuriousness of the writing in the 
absence of the other. What ! must both elements al- 
ways be united according to some definite rule? is it 
so with us ? or are any two of Paul’s epistles alike in 
this respect?” (Die Geschichte d. II. Svhr. Xeuen Test. 
p. 104, 3d ed.) The second of the above objections 
has reference to such passages as i, 21; ii, 7 ; iii, 21, 
where it is alleged the Gnostic doctrine of neons is 
recognised; and to the expression 7 rA/'/pw/ta, i, 23, as 
conveying a purely Gnostic idea ; and to such words 
ns GQ<pictj yi'tocric, ipioQt ervorta, etc. On 

this it seems sufficient to observe, without denying the 
existence of Gnostic allusions in this epistle, that, on 
the one hand, the objection assumes that, because 
Gnostic schools and systems did not make their appear- 
ance till after the age of the apostles, the ideas and 
words in favor with the Gnostics were unknown at an 
earlier period, a position which cannot be maintained 
[see Gnostics]; and, on the other, that, because the 
apostle uses phraseology which was employed also by 
the Gnostics, he uses it in the same sense as they did, 
which is purely gratuitous and indeed untrue, for to 
confound the alunac and 7r\))piopa of the apostle with 
the aiwviQ and TrXijpeopa of the Gnostics, as Baur does, 
only proves, as Lange has remarked, that “a man 
may write whole books on Gnostics and Gnosticism 
without detecting the characteristic difference between 
the Christian principle and Gnosticism” (Apostol. Zeii- 
cdt. i, 124). With regard to the resemblance between 
this epistle and that to the Colossians, it can surprise 
no one that, written at the same time, they should in 
many respects resemble each other (see Klopper, De 
or] (fine Kpp. ad Kph . et Col. Gryph. 1853); but it does 
not require much penetration to discover the many 
points of difference between them, especially in the 
point of view from which the writer contemplates his 
main subject, the Lord Jesus Christ, in each ; in the 
one as the prehistoric, pre-existent, supreme source of 
all things; in the other as the incarnate, historical, 
exalted, glorified head of the Church, to whom all 
things are subjected (comp. Eph. i, 20-23, with Col. i, 
15-20; and Lange, Ap. Zeit. i, 118). As for the al- 
leged “copious expansion,” that may be left to the 
judgment of the reader, as well as the counter notion 
of Schnec ken burger, that the epistle to the Colossians 
is an epitome of that to the Ephesians made by Paul 
himself. On such objections in general, we may say 
with Beuss that “rash hypotheses, whatever accept- 
ance they may have received, tell by their deficiency or 
strangeness, not against the epistle, hut against them- 
selves; and, in opposition to all cavils, the many 
traits which disprove the presence in the thoughts of 
a deceptive imitation by a foreign hand stand as valid 
arguments in its defence” ( Gesch . p. 101). For a de- 
tailed reply to the arguments of I)e Wette and Bntir, 
the student may lie referred to Meyer, Ehileit . z. Eph. 
p. 10 sq. , ed. 2; Davidson, Introd. to N. T. ii, 352 sq., 
and Alford, Prolegomena , p. 8. 

IE The Renders for whom this Epistle was designed. 

* — In the opening words, “Paul, an apostle of Christ 
Jesus by the will of God, to the saints that are in Eph- 
esus and faithful in Christ Jesus,” the words in Ephe- 
sas, te Kpsotij, are omitted by tfie Vatican and Sinaitie 
MSS., the cursive numbered 07, by Basil (expressly), 
probably by Origen, and possibly by Tcrtullian. This, 


combined with the somewhat noticeable omission of 
all greetings to the members of a church with which 
the apostle stood in such affectionate relation, and 
some other internal objections, have suggested a doubt 
whether these words really formed a part of the orig- 
inal text. On the subject of the persons addressed, 
therefore, two hypotheses have been principally enter- 
tained, besides the common opinion which, following 
the (disputed) reading in i, 1, regards the party to 
whom it was sent as the Church at Ephesus. (8ce the 
Jahrb.f. deutsche Theol. 1866, n. 129 sq., 742 sq.) 

1. Grotius, reviving the opinion of the ancient her- 
etic Marcion, maintains that the party addressed in 
this epistle was the Church at Laodicea, and that we 
have in this the epistle to that Church which is com- 
monly supposed to have been lost. The view of Gro- 
tius, which has been followed by some scholars of em- 
inent name, among whom are found Hammond, Mill, 
Venema, Wetstein, and Pa ley, rests chiefly on two 
grounds, viz. the testimony of Marcion, and the close 
resemblance between this epistle and that to the Co- 
lossians, taken in connection with Coloss, iv, 16. With, 
respect to the former of these grounds, it is alleged 
that, as Marcion was under no temptation to utter a 
wilful falsehood in regard to the destination of this 
epistle, he probably bad the authority of the Church 
at Laodicea, and, it may he, the tradition of the church- 
es generally of Asia Minor, for the opinion which he 
expresses (Grotius, Proleg. ad Ephes. ; Mill, Proleg. 
ad N. Test. p. 9, Oxon. 1707). But, without charging 
Marcion with designedly uttering what was false, we 
may suppose that, like some critics of recent times, 
this view was suggested to him by the apostle's allu- 
sion, in Col. iv, 16, to an epistle addressed by him to 
the Laodiceans. Nor is there the least ground for 
supposing that Marcion spoke in this instance on the 
authority of the Asiatic churches; on the contrary, 
there is every reason to believe the opposite; for not 
only do Origen and Clement of Alexandria, who were 
fully acquainted with the views of the Eastern church- 
es on such matters, give no hint of any such tradition 
being entertained by them, but Tertullian, to whom 
we are indebted for our information respecting the 
opinion of Marcion, expressly says that in that opin- 
ion he opposed the tradition of the orthodox churches, 
and imposed upon the epistle a false title, through 
conceit of his own superior diligence in exploring such 
matters (adi\ Marc, v, 17). With regard to the other 
argument by which this view is advocated, admitting 
the fact of a close resemblance between the epistle to 
the Colossians and that before us, and the fact that 
Paul had, some time before sending the former epistle, 
written one to the Church at Laodicea, which he ad- 
vises the Colossians to send for and read, how does it 
follow from all this that the epistle to the Laodiceans 
and that now under notice were one and the same ? 
It appears more probable that, seeing the two extant 
epistles bear so close a resemblance to each other, had 
the one now bearing the inscription “to the Ephe- 
sians” been really the one addressed to the Laodice- 
ans, the apostle would not have deemed it of so much 
importance that the churches of Colossse and Laodicea 
should interchange epistles. Such being the chief ar- 
guments in favor of this hypothesis (for those which, 
in addition, Wetstein alleges from a comparison of this 
epistle with that to the Church at Laodicea, in the 
Apocalypse, are not deserving of notice ; see Michae- 
lis, Introd. iv, 137), we may venture to set it aside as 
without any adequate support. It may be observed, 
also, that it seems incompatible, with what the apostle 
says, Col. iv, 15, where he enjoins the Church at Co- 
lossi to send his greetings to the brethren at Laodi- 
cca, etc. No one sends greetings by another except 
when it is impossildc to express them one’s self. But 
if Paul wrote to Laodicea at the same time as to Co- 
lossi, and sent both letters by the same bearer, Tvchi- 
cus, there was manifestly no occasion whatever for liif 


EPHESIANS 


239 


EPHESIANS 


sending his salutations to the latter of these churches 
through the medium of the former; it was obviously 
as easy, and much more natural, to send his saluta- 
tions to the Church at Laodicea in the epistle address- 
ed to themselves. This seems to prove that the epis- 
tle to the Laodiceans had been written some consider- 
able time before that to the Colossians, and therefore 
could not have been the same with that now under 
notice. See Laodiceans (Epistle to). 

2. The opinion that this epistle was not specially ad- 
dressed to any one church, but was intended as a sort 
of circular letter for the use of several churches, was 
first broached by archbishop Usher (Annal. Vet. et Nov. 
Test. p. 680, Brenue, 1686). To this opinion the great 
majority of critics have given their suffrage ; indeed, 
it may be regarded as the received opinion of Biblical 
scholars in the present day. This may make it ap- 
parently presumptuous in us to call it in question, 
and yet it seems to us so ill supported by positive evi- 
dence, and exposed to so many objections, that we can- 
not yield assent to it. (1.) In the place, it is to be 
observed that this is a hypothesis entirely of modern in- 
vention. No hint is furnished of any such motion 
having been entertained concerning the destination of 
this epistle by the early Church. With the solitary 
exception of Marcion, so far as we know, all parties 
were unanimous in assigning Ephesus as the place to 
which this epistle was sent, and Marcion’s view is as 
much opposed to the supposition of its being a circular 
letter as the other. As respects the external evidence, 
therefore, this hypothesis is purely destitute of sup- 
port. (2.) It is a hypothesis suggested for the purpose 
of accounting for certain alleged facts, some of which 
are, to say the least, doubtful, and others of which may 
be explained as well without it as with it. These 
facts are, a. The alleged omission of the name of any 
place at the commencement of the epistle; b. Mar- 
cion’s assertion that this epistle was addressed to the 
Laodiceans, which, it is said, probably arose out of his 
having seen that copy of this circular epistle which 
had been sent to Laodicea ; c. The want of any precise 
allusions to personal relations subsisting between the 
apostle and those to whom this epistle was addressed ; 
and d. The expressions of unacquaintedness with those 
to whom he wrote, w hich occur in this epistle, e. g. iii, 
1-4. How these facts may be reconciled with the sup- 
position that this epistle was addressed to the Ephe- 
sians will be considered afterwards ; at present the 
question is, How do they favor the hypothesis that 
this was a circular letter ? Now, supposing them to 
be unquestionable, and admitting that they are not ir- 
reconcilable with this hypothesis, it must yet appear 
to all that they go very little way towards affording 
primary evidence in its support. It is not one wdiich 
grow r s naturall}' out of these facts, or is suggested by 
them ; it is plainly of foreign birth, and suggested for 
them. But w r hen it is remembered that the first of 
these alleged facts is (to say the least) very doubtful ; 
that the second is made to serve this hypothesis only 
by means of another as doubtful as itself, and that, 
were its services admitted, it would prove too much, 
for it would go to show r that, to the Laodiceans, the 
apostle not only sent a peculiar epistle, mentioned 
C’ol. iv, 16, but gave them a share also in this circular 
epistle written some time after their own ; and that 
the third and fourth are both either partially or wholly 
questionable, it must be admitted that this hypothesis 
stands upon a basis which is little better' than none. 
(3.) Had the epistle been addressed to a particular cir- 
cle of churches, some designation of these churches 
would have been given, by which it might have been 
known w’hat churches they were to which this letter 
belonged. When it is argued that this must be a circu- 
lar letter, because there is no church spccilied to which 
it is addressed, it seems to be forgotten that the desig- 
nation of a particular set of churches is as necessary for 
a circular epistle as the designation of one church is for 


an epistle specially addressed to it. If we must leave 
out the words iv 'E in chap, i, 1, wdiat are we to 
put in their place? for if we take the passage as it 
stands w ithout them, it will follow r that the epistle was 
addressed to all Christians everywhere, which is more 
than the advocates of the hypothesis now T under notice 
contend for. The supposition that the title was left 
blank is equally gratuitous, unreasonable, and unnec- 
essary. (4.) In chap, vi, 21,22, Paul mentions that he 
had sent to those for whom this epistle was destined 
Tychicus, who should make know'n to them all things, 
that they might know r his affairs, and that he might 
comfort their hearts. From this it appears that Tych- 
icus was not only the bearer of this letter, but that he 
was personally to visit, converse with, and comfort 
those to whom it was addressed. On the supposition 
that this w r as a circular letter, this could hardly have 
been practicable. 

3. M r e return, then, to the question of the genuine- 
ness of the suspected words “at Ephesus,” iv’Efpscn’j. 
At first sight the doubts against them seem plausible ; 
but when we oppose to these («) the preponderating 
weight of diplomatic evidence for the insertion of the 
words, (6) the testimony of all the versions, (e) the 
universal designation of this epistle by the ancient 
Church (Marcion standing alone in his assertion that 
it w T as written to the Laodiceans) as an epistle to the 
Ephesians, (el) the extreme difficulty in giving any satis- 
factory meaning to the isolated participle ( rote oiuxt, to 
those that are — •), and the absence of any parallel usage 
in the apostle's writings, we can scarcely feel any doubt 
as to the propriety of removing the brackets in w hich 
these words are enclosed in the 2d and later editions of 
Tischcndorf, and of considering them an integral part 
of the original text. If called upon to supply an an- 
swer to, or an explanation of the internal objections, 
w’e must record the opinion that none on the whole 
seems so free from objection as that which regards the 
epistle as also designed for the benefit of churches 
either conterminous to, or dependent on that of Ephe- 
sus. The counter-arguments of Meyer, though ably 
urged, are not convincing. Nor can an appeal to the 
silence of writers of the ancient Church on this further 
destination be conceived to be of much weight, as their 
references are to the usual and titular designation of 
the epistle, but do not and are not intended to affect 
tire question of its wider or narrower destination. It 
is not unnatural to suppose that the special greetings 
here omitted might have been separately intrusted to 
the bearer Tychicus, possibly himself an Ephesian, and 
certainly commissioned by the apostle (vi, 22) to inform 
the Ephesians of his state and circumstances. 

III. Occasion of writing this Epistle. — It docs not 
seem to have been called out by any special circum- 
stances, nor even to have involved any distinctly’ pre- 
cautionary teaching (compare Sclmeekenburger, Bei- 
trdge , p. 135 sq.), whether against Oriental or Judaistic 
theosophy, but to have been suggested by the deep love 
which the apostle lelt for his converts at Ephesus, and 
wffiich the mission of Tychicus, with an epistle to the 
Church of Colossi®, afforded him a convenient oppor- 
tunity of evincing in written teaching and exhortation. 
The epistle thus contains many thoughts that had per- 
vaded the nearly contemporaneous epistle to the Co- 
lossians, reiterates many of the same practical warn- 
ings and exhortations, bears even the tinge of tbe 
same diction, hut at the same time enlarges upon such 
profound mysteries of the divine counsels, displays so 
fully the origin and developments of the Church in Christ, 
its union, communion, and aggregation in him, that 
this majestic epistle can never he rightly deemed oth- 
erwise than one of the most sublime and consolatory 
outpourings of tbe Spirit of God to tbe children of 
men. To tbe Christians at Ephesus dwelling under 
the shadow" of the great temple of Diana, daily seeing 
its outward grandeur, and almost daily hearing of its 
pompous ritualism, the allusions in this epistle to tha'; 


EPHESIANS 


240 


EPHESIANS 


mystic building of which Christ was the corner-stone, 
the apostles the foundations, and himself and his fel- 
low-Christians portions of the august superstructure 
(ii, 39-22), must have spoken with a force, an appro- 
priateness, and a reassuring depth of teaching that 
cannot he overestimated. 

1 V. Contents . — These easily admit of being divided 
into two portions, the first mainly doctrinal (i— iii), the 
second hortatory and practical. 

1. The doctrinal portion opens with a brief address 
to the saints in Ephesus, and rapidly passes into a sub- 
lime ascription of praise to God the Father, "who lias 
predestinated us to the adoption of sons, blessed and 
redeemed us in Christ , and made known to us his eter- 
nal purpose of uniting all in him (i, 3-13). This not 
unnaturally evokes a prayer from the apostle that his 
converts may be enlightened to know the hope of God’s 
calling, the riches of his grace, and the magnitude of 
that power which was displayed in the resurrection 
and transcendent exaltation of Christ — the head of his 
body, the Church (i, 15-23). Then, with a more im- 
mediate address to his converts, the apostle reminds 
them how, dead as they had been in sin, God had 
quickened them, raised them, and even enthroned 
them with Christ ; and how all was by grace, not by 
works (ii, 1 1ft). They were to remember, too, how 
they had once been alienated and yet were now 
brought nigh in the blood of Christ ; how he was their 
Peace, how by him both they and the Jews had access 
to the Father, and how on him as the corner-stone they 
had been built into a spiritual temple to God (ii, 11-22). 
On this account, having heard, as they must have 
done, how to the apostle was revealed the profound 
mystery of this call of the Gentile world, they were 
not to faint at his troubles (iii, 1-13): na} r , he prayed 
to the great Father of all to give them inward strength, 
to teach them the love of Christ, and fill them with the 
fulness of God (iii, 13-19). The prayer is concluded 
l>y a sublime doxology (iii, 20, 21), which serves to 
usher in the more direct ! y practical portion. 

2. This the apostle commences by entreating them 
to walk worthy of this calling, and to keep the unity 
of the Spirit : there was hut one body, one Spirit, one 
Lord, and one God (iv, 1-G). Each, too, had his por- 
tion of grace from God (iv, 7-10), who had appointed 
ministering orders in the Church, until all come to 
the unity of the faith, and grow up and become united 
with the living Head, even Christ (iv, 11 1G). Sure- 
ly, then, they were to walk no more as darkened, feel- 
ingless heathen; they were to put off the old man, and 
put on the new (iv, 37-24). This, too, was to be prac- 
tically evinced in their outward actions; they were to 
be truthful, honest, pure, and forgiving ; they were to 
walk in love (iv, 25-v, 2). Fornication, covetousness, 
and impurity were not even to be named; they were 
once in heathen darkness, now they are light, and 
must reprove the deeds of the past (v, 3 14). Thus 
were they to walk exactly, to be filled with joy, to 
sing, and to give thanks (v, 15-21). Wives were to 
be subject to their husbands, husbands to love and 
cleave to their wives (v, 23-33); children were to 
honor their parents, parents to bring up Iiolily their 
children (vi, 1 4) ; servants and masters were to per- 
form to each other their reciprocal duties (vi, 5-9). 
With a noble and vivid exhortation to arm themselves 
against their spiritual foes with the armor of God (vi, 
10-20), a brief notice of the. coming of Tychicus (vi, 
21, 22). and a twofold doxology (vi, 23, 24), this sub- 
lime epistle comes to its close. 

V. Date. — This epistle was written during the latter 
part of the apostle’s first imprisonment at Lome, at 
about the same time with that to the Colossians, A.l). 
57. This appears from the following circumstances: 
Timothy was not yet with Paul (i, 1); Paul was then 
a prisoner (iii, 3 ; iv, 1), but had been allowed to 
preach (vi, 20; comp. Acts xxviii, 30, 33); Tychicus i 
(on his first journey) carried this epistle (vi, 21 ; comp. 


Coloss, iv, 7, 8). The question of order in time be- 
tween this epistle and that to the Colossians is very 
difficult to adjust. On the whole, both internal and 
external considerations seem somewhat in favor of the 
priorit}' of the Epistle to the Ephesians. Comp. Nc- 
ander, Planting , i, 329 (Bohn), Schleiermacher, Stud. u. 
Krit . for 1832, p. 500, and Wieseler, Ckronol. p. 150 sq. 
— Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Colossians (Epis- 
tle to). 

YT. Commentaries , etc. — The following is a full list 
of separate exegetical helps on this epistle, the more 
important having an asterisk (*) prefixed : Victo- 
rious, In ep. ad Ephes. (in Mai’s Scripit. Vet. Ill, i, 
87); Jerome, Commentarii (in Opp. vii, 537; also in 
Opp. Suppos. xi, 995) ; Chrysostom, llomilice (in Opp. 
xi, 1; Bib!. Patr. ix) ; Claudius Taurincnsis, Expo- 
sitio (in Mabillon, IW. Anal. 91); *Calvin, Commen - 
tarn (in Opp. ; also tr. into English, Loud. 1854, Svo); 
also Sennons (tr. by Golding, Loud. 1577, 4to); Rid- 
ley, Commentary (in Richmond's Fathers , ii, 14) ; Mc- 
gander, Commentarius (Basil. 1534, 8vo) ; Sarccr, A dno- 
tatione$( Frckf. 1541, Svo) ; Major, Enar ratio (Wittemb. 
1552, Svo); Nailant, Enarrationes (Yen. 1554; Lond. 
1570, Svo) ; Weller, Commentarius (Norimb. 1559, Svo) ; 
Yellenis, Enamationes (Norimb. 1559, 8vo); Bucer, 
Prcclectiones (Basil. 15G2, fol.) ; Musculus, Commentarii 
(Basil. 15G9, fol.); Ilemingc, Commentary (Lond. 1583, 
4to); Binemann, Exposiiio (Lond. 1581, 4to); Anon., 
Exposition (Lond. 1581, 4to) ; Stewart, Commentarius 
(Ingolst. 1593, 4to) ; Rollock, Commentarius (Edinb. 
1590, 4to; Gen. 3593, Svo); Zanchius, Commentaria 
(Newstad. 1594, fol.); Wcinrich, Exjdicatio (Lips. 
1G33, 4to); Battus, Commentarii (Rost. 1620, 4to); Dc 
Quiros, Commentarius (Hisp. 1G22, fol. ; Lugd. 1623, 
4 to) ; Meelcuhrer, Commentarius (Norimb. 1G2S, 4to) ; 
Hanneken, Explicatio (4to, Marp. 1G31 ; Lips., 1718; 
Jen. 1731) ; Tarnovins, Commentarius (Rost. 1G3G, 4to); 
Cocceius, Commentarius (in Opp. v) ; Althofcr, Ani- 
madversiones (Alt. 1641, 4to); Croeius, Commentarius 
(Cassel, 1G42, 8vo); Bayne, Commentary (Lond. 1643, 
fol.); Wandalin, Parapthrasis (Slesw. 1650, Svo); 
Boyd, Pnvlectiones (fol., London, 1652; Gen. 1660); 
Anon., Annotationes (Svo, Camhr. 1653; Amst. 3703; 
also in the Critici Sacri') ; Ferguson, Exposition (Edinb. 
j 1659, Svo) ; Crell, Commentarius (in Opp. i, 4) ; Lagus, 
Commentatio (Gryph. 1664, 4to); Schmidt, Paraphrasis 
(Arg. 1684, 1699, 4to); Du Bose, Sermons (Fr., Rot- 
terd. 3699, 3 vols. Svo); Goodwin, Exposition (Strasb. 
1699, 4to); Spener, Evil dr. (Hal. 1706, 1730, 4 to) ; Ger- 
baden, Geopent Door (Tr. ad Rh. 1707, 4to) ; Pfeffinger, 
Dissert ationes (Arg. 3711, Svo); also, De risitatione 
Pauli ap. Ephesios (Arg. 1723, 4to); Roll, Commenta- 
rius (Tr. ad Rh. 1715, 1733, 2 vols. 4to); Hazevoet, 
Verlclaar. (L. B. 1718, 4to) ; *Dinant, Commentarii (Rot- 
terd. 1721, 4to; also in Low Dutch, ib., 1711. 1722, 
2 vols. 4to); Van Til, Commentarius (Amsterd. 1726, 
4to); Fend, E clout, (s. 1. 1727, 4to); Ziegler, Einleit. 
(in Henke’s Magaz. iv, 225); Crusius, De statu Ephe- 
sinorum (Hafn. 1733, 4to) ; Glide, Erlent. (Laub. 1735, 

I Svo); also, De cccl. Eph. statu (Lips. 1732, Svo); Ro- 
yaards, Verklaar. (Amst. 3735, 3 vols. 4to); Van Al- 
phen, Specimen (Tr. ad Rh. 1742, 4to); Ilutlq Ep. ex 
Laod. in encycl. ad Eph. (Erlang. 1751, 4to) ; Justi, 
Br. a. Laod. d. Br. an d. Eph. (in his Verm. Abb nidi. 
]>. 81); Pezohl, De sublimitate in ep. ad Eph. (Lips. 
1771, 4to); Moldcnhnuer, Uebers. (llamb. 1773, Svo); 
(’handler, Paraphrase (London, 1777, 4to); Schutze, 
Commentarii (Svo, Lips. 1778, 1785); Cramer, A uslrg. 
(Hamb. 1782, 4to) ; Esmarch, Uebers. (Alton. 1785, 
8vo); Krause, Anmerk. (Frkf. 1789, Svo) ; Brinkman, 
Uebers. (Hamb. 1793, Svo); Muller, Erklar. (Ildlb. 
1793, 4to) ; Morus, A croases (Lips. 1795, Svo) ; Han- 
lein, De lectorib. ep. ad Ep. (Erl. 1797, 4to); Popp, 
Erklar. (Rost. 1799, 4to) ; Van Bemmlen, Epp. ad Eph. 
et Col. collate (L. B. 1803, Svo); Sclmeckenburger, 
Aphorismen d. Dr. a. <1. Eph. (in bis Einl. ins X. T. 
No. 13) ; Yon Flatt, Vorles. (Tub. 1828, 8vo) ; Holz- 


EPHESUS 


241 


EPHESUS 


hausen, Erldar . (Hanov. 1833, 8vo) ; Simcoe, Illustra- 
tion (Lond. 1833, 4to) ; *Meier, Commentar (Berl. 1834, 
8vo); *Harless, Commentar (8vo, Erl. 1834; Stuttg. 
1858); *Kiickert, Erldar. (Lpz. 1834, 8vo); Matthies, 
Bevuchs. (Gricfsw. 1834, 8vo) ; Lohlein, Syrus inter- 
pres (Erl. 1835, 8vo) ; Passavant, Auskg. (Basel, 1836, 
8vo) ; Llinemann, De ep. ad Eph. authentia (Gott. 1842, 
8vo) ; *De Wette, Ilandb. (Lpz. 1843, 8vo, vol. ii) ; 
*Sticr, Auslegumj (Ilerl. 1848-0, 2 vols. in 3 parts, 8vo ; 
abridged, 1850, 8vo) ; Perceval, Lectures (Lond. 1846, 
12mo) ; M‘Ghie, Lectures (Dublin, 1846, 2 vols. 8vo); 
*Baumgarten-Crnsius, Commentar (Jena, 1847, 8vo) ; 
*Mever, Commentar (Gott. 1853, pt. ii) ; *Eadie, Com- 
mentary (Glasg. 1854, 8vo) ; Bisping, Erldar. (Miinst. 
1855, 8vo) ; Kahler, Predigten (Kiel, 1855, 8vo) ; Hodge, 
Commentary (X. Y. 1856, 8vo); *Turner, Commentary 
(X. Y. 1856, 8vo) ; *Ellicott, Commentary (8vo, Lond. 
1855, 1850, 1864 ; Andov. 1860) ; Neulan'd, Xew Catena 
(Lond. 1861, 8vo) ; Clergymen (4), Pe vision (Lond. 
1861, 8vo); Pridham, Notes (Lond. 1862, 12mo) ; La- 
throp, Discourses (Phila. 1864, 8vo) ; Bleek, Yorlesun- 
gen (Berl. 1865, Svo). See Epistles. 

Eph'esus {"EcptaoQ, according to one legend from 
t(pemg, the per?nissio?i given by Hercules to the Ama- 
zons to settle here), an illustrious city (Athen. viii, 
361) in the district of Ionia (ttoAic ’Uoviag l Trapavt- 
ctuti], Steph. Byz. s. v.), on the -western coast of the 
peninsula commonly called Asia Minor — not that this 
geographical term was known in the first century. 
The Asia of the N. T. was simply the Boman province 
which embraced the western part of the peninsula. 
Of this province Ephesus was the capital. See Asia 
Minor. 

1 . History. — It was one of the twelve Ionian cities 
in Asia Minor in the mythic times (Herod, i, 142), and 
said to have been founded by the Amazons, but in later 
times inhabited by the Carians and Leleges (Strabo, 
xiv, 640), and taken possession of by the lonians un- 
der Androclus, the son of Codrtis (Cramer, Asia Mi- 
nor, i, 363). Besides the name by which it is best 
known, it bore successively those of Samorna , Trachea , 
Ortygia , and Ptelea. Being founded by Androclus, 
the legitimate son of Codrus, it enjoyed a pre-eminence 
over the other members of the Ionian confederacy, and 
was denominated the royal city of Ionia. The climate 
and country which the colonists from Attica had se- 
lected as their future abode surpassed, according to 
Herodotus (i, 142), all others in beauty and fertility; 
and, had the martial spirit of the lonians corresponded 
to their natural advantages, they might have grown 
into a powerful independent nation. The softness, 
however, of the climate, and the ease with which the 
necessaries of life could be procured, transformed the 
hardy inhabitants of the rugged Attica into an indo- 
lent and voluptuous race : hence they fell successive- 
ly under the power of the Lydians (B.C. 560) and the 
Persians (B.C. 557); and, though the revolt of His- 
tiosus and Aristagoras against the Persian power was 
for a time successful, the contest at length terminated 
in favor of the latter (Herod, vi, 7-22). The defeat 
of the Persians by the Greeks gave a temporary lib- 
erty to the Ionian cities ; but the battle of Mycale 
transferred the virtual dominion of the country to 
Athens. During the Peloponnesian war they paid 
tribute indifferently to either party, and the treaty of 
Anialcidas (B.C. 387) once more restored them to their 
old masters the Persians. They beheld with indiffer- 
ence the exploits of Alexander and the disputes of his 
captains, and resigned themselves without a struggle 
to successive conquerors. Ephesus was included in 
the dominions of Lysimnchns; but, after the defeat 
of Antiochus (B.C. 100), it was given by the Romans 
to the kings of Pergamum. In the year B.C. 129 the 
Romans formed their province of Asia. The fickle 
Ephesians took part with Mithridatcs against the Ro- 
mans, and massacred the garrison : they had reason 
to be grateful for the unusual cleineucy of L. Cornelius 
III.— Q 


Sulla, who merely inflicted heavy fines upon the in- 
habitants, Thenceforward the city formed part of the 
Roman empire. While, about the epoch of the intro- 
duction of Christianity, the other cities of Asia Minor 
declined, Ephesus rose more and more. It owed its 
prosperity in part to the favor of its governors, for 
Lysimachus named the city Arsinoe in honor of his 
second wife, and Attains Philadelphus furnished it 
with splendid wharves and docks ; in part to the favor- 
able position of the place, which naturally made it the 
emporium of Asia on this side the Taurus (Strabo, 
xiv, 641, 663). Under the Romans, Ephesus was the 
capital not only of Ionia, but of the entire province 
of Asia, and bore the honorable title of the first and 
greatest metropolis of Asia (Bbckh, Ccnp. Inscript. Grcec. 
2968-2992). The bishop of Ephesus in later times 
was the president of the Asiatic dioceses, with the 
rights and privileges of a patriarch (Evagr. Ilist. Ec - 
cles. iii, 6). Towards the end of the 11th century 
Ephesus experienced the same fate as Smyrna ; and, 
after a brief occupation b} r the Greeks, it surrendered 
in 1308 to sultan Saysan, who, to prevent future in- 
surrections, removed most of the inhabitants to Tyri- 
oeum, where they were massacred. 



Early Silver Coin of Ephesus. From the Krituh Museum. 

Actual Size. Weight 17 6 % grains. 

2. Biblical Notices. — That Je-ws were established 
there in considerable numbers is known from Josephus 
{Ant. xiv, 10, 11), and might be inferred from its mer- 
cantile eminence ; but it is also evident from Acts ii, 9 ; 
vi, 9. In harmony with the character of Ephesus as a 
place of concourse and commerce, it is here, and here 
only, that we find disciples of John the Baptist explic- 
itly mentioned after the ascension of Christ (Acts 
xviii, 25; xix, 3). The case of Apollos (xviii, 24) is 
an exemplification further of the intercourse between 
this place and Alexandria. The first seeds of Chris- 
tian truth were possibly sown at Ephesus immediately 
after the great Pentecost (Acts ii). Whatever pre- 
vious plans Paul may have entertained (xvi, 6), his 
first visit was on his return from the second mission- 
ary circuit (xviii, 19-21), and his stay cn tln.t occa- 
sion was very short; nor is there any proof that he 
found any Christians at Ephesus, but he left there 
Aquila and Priscilla (ver. 19), who both then and at a 
later period (2 Tim. iv, 19) were of signal service. In 
Paul’s own stay of more than two years (xix, 8, 10; 
xx, 31), which formed the most important passage of 
his third circuit, and during which he labored, first in 
the synagogue (xix, 8), and then in the school of Ty- 
rannus (ver. 9), and also in private houses (xx, 20), 
and during which he wrote the First Epistle to the 
Corinthians, we have the period of the chief evangel- 
ization of this shore of the vEgaean. The direct narra- 
tive in Acts xix receives hut little elucidation from 
the Epistle to the Ephesians, which was written after 
several years from Rome ; but it is supplemented in 
some important particulars (especially as regards the 
apostle’s personal habits of self-denial, xx, 34) by the 
address at Miletus. This address shows that the 
Church at Ephesus was thoroughly organized under 
its presbyters. On leaving the city, the apostle left 
Timothy in charge of the Church there (1 Tim. i, 3), 
a position which lie seems to have retained for a con- 
siderable period, as we learn from the second epistle 
addressed to him. See Timothy. Among Paul’s 
other companions, two, Trophimus and Tychicus, were 


EPHESUS 


242 


EPHESUS 


natives of Asia (xx, 4), and the latter probably (2 
Tim. iv, 12), the former certainly (Acts xxi, 29), na- 
tives of Ephesus. In the same connection we ought 
to mention Oncsiphonis (2 Tim. i, 1G-1S) and Ins 
household (iv, 19). On the other hand must be no- 
ticed certain specified Ephesian antagonists of the 
apostle, the sons of Sceva and his party (Acts xix, 
14), Hymenneus and Alexander (1 Tim. i, 20; 2 Tim. 
iv, 14), and Phygellus and llermogeucs (2 Tim. i, 15). 
See Paul. Ephesus is also closely connected with 
the apostle John, not only as being the scene (Rev. i, 
11 ; ii, 1) of the most prominent of the churches of the 
Apocalypse, but also in tlie story of his later life as 
given by Eusebius (Hist. Feel, iii, 23, etc.). Accord- 
ing to a tradition which prevailed extensively in an- 
cient times, John spent many years in Ephesus, where 
he employed himself most diligently for the spread of 
the Gospel, and whore he died at a very old age, and 
was buried. See John (the Apostle). Possibly 
his Gospels and Epistles were written here. There is 
a tradition that the mother of our Lord was likewise 
buried at Ephesus, as also Timothy. Some make John 
bishop of the Ephesian communities, while others as- 
cribe that honor to Timothy. In the book of Revela- 
tion (ii, 1) a favorable testimony is borne to the Chris- 
tian churches at Ephesus. Ignatius addressed one of 
his epistles to the Church of this place (r£ tKKXijaia 
r/j c\iwf.ui ica o t (T r to , tij ovm ( ] iv *E (perrto rijg ’Aaiag, 
Ilefele, Pat. Apostol. p. 154), which held a conspicuous 
position during the early ages of Christianity, and was, 
in fact, the metropolis of the churches of this part of 
Asia. 

3. Location . — Ephesus lay on the yEgaean coast, near- 
ly opposite the island of Samos, 320 stadia from Smyr- 
na (Strabo, xiv, G32). The ancient town seems to 
have been confined to the northern slope of Coressus 
(Herod, i, 2G), but in the lapse of time the inhabitants 
advanced farther into the plain, and thus a new town 


sprang up around the temple (Strabo, xiv, G40). All 
the cities of Ionia were remarkably well situated for 
the growtli of commercial prosperity (Herod, i, 142), 
and none more so than Ephesus. With a fertile neigh- 
borhood (Strabo, xiv, G37) and an excellent climate, 
it was also most conveniently placed for traffic with 
all the neighboring parts of the Levant. In the time 
of Augustus it was the great emporium of all the re- 
gions of Asia within the Taurus (Strabo, xiv, 950) ; its 
harbor (named Panormus), at the mouth of the Cay- 
ster, was elaborately constructed, though alluvial mat- 
ter caused serious hinderances both in the time of At- 
talus and in Paul’s own time (Tacitus, A nn. xvi, 23). 
The apostle’s life alone furnishes illustrations of its 
mercantile relations with Achaia on the W., Macedo- 
nia on the N., and Syria on the E. At the close of 
his second missionary circuit, he sailed across from 
Corinth to Ephesus (Acts xviii, 19), when on his way 
to Syria (Acts xviii, 21, 22) : some think that he once 
made the same short voyage over the yEgnean, in the 
opposite direction, at a later period. See Corinthians, • 
First Ei\ to. On the third missionary circuit, be- 
sides the. notice of the journey from Ephesus to Mace- 
donia (xix, 21 ; xx, 1), we have the coast voyage on 
the return to Syria given in detail (xx, xxi), and the 
geographical relations of this city with the islands 
and neighboring parts of the coast minutely indicated 
(xx, 15-17). To these passages we must add 1 Tim. 
i,3 ; 2 Tim. iv, 12, 20; though it is difficult to say con- 
tidcntly whether the journeys implied there were by 
land or by water. See likewise Acts xix, 27; xx, 1. 

As to the relations of Ephesus to the inland regions 
of the continent, these also are prominently brought 
before us in the apostle's travels. The “ upper coasts” 
(ra avujTtpacu /dpi]. Acts xix, 1), through which he 
passed when about to take up his residence in the city, 
were the Phrygian table-lands of the interior: and it 
was probably in the same district that on a previous 



EPHESUS 


243 


EPHESUS 


occasion (Acts xvi, G) he formed the unsuccessful proj- 
ect of preaching the Gospel in the district of Asia. 
Two great roads at least, in the Roman times, led east- 
ward from Ephesus ; one through the passes of Tmo- 
lus to Sardis (Rev. iii, 1), and thence to Galatia and 
the N.E., the other round the extremity of Pactvas to 
Magnesia, and so up the valley of the Maeander to Ico- 
nimn, whence the communication was direct to the 
Euphrates and to the Syrian Antioch. There seem 
to have been Sardian and Magnesian gates on the E. 
side of Ephesus corresponding to these roads respect- 
ively. There were also coast-roads leading north- 
wards to Smyrna, and southwards to Miletus. By 
the latter of these it is probable that the Ephesian eld- 
ers travelled when summoned to meet Paul at the lat- 
ter city (Acts xx, 17, 18). Part of the pavement of 
the Sardian road has been noticed by travellers under 
the cliffs of Gallesus. (See Leake's Asia Minor, and 
Map.) 

Among the more marked physical features of the 
peninsula are the two large rivers, Hermus and Mean- 
der, which flow r from a remote part of the interior west- 
ward to the Archipelago, Smyrna (Rev. ii, 8} being 
near the mouth of one, and Miletus (Acts xx, 17) of 
the other. Between the valleys drained by these tAvo 
rivers is the shorter stream and smaller basin of the 
Cayster, called bv the Turks Kutselmk-Mendere, or 
the Little Maeander. Its upper level (often called the 
Caystrian meadows) was closed to the -westward by 
the gorge between Gallesus and Pactyas, the latter of 
these mountains being a prolongation of the range of 
Messogis, rvhieli bounds the valley of the Marauder on 
the north, the former more remotely connected with 
the range of Tmolus, which bounds the valley of the 
Ilernuis on the south. Beyond the gorge and towards 
the sea the valley opens out again into an alluvial flat 
(Herod, ii, 10), with hills rising abruptly from it. The 
plain is now about 5 miles in breadth, but formerly it 
must have been smaller, and some of the hills were 
once probably islands. Here Ephesus stood, partly on 
the level ground and partly on the hills. 

Of the hills, on which a large portion of the city 
was built, the two most important were Prion and Co- 
ressus, the latter on the 8. of the plain, and being, in 
fact, almost a continuation of Pactyas, the former be- 
ing in front of Coressus and near it, though separated 
by a deep and deflnite valley. Further to the N.E. is 
another conspicuous eminence. It seems to be the 
hill mentioned by Procopins ( De JEdif.x. i) as one on 
Avhieh a church dedicated to the apostle John Avas 
built ; and its present name Ayasaluk is absurdly 
thought to have reference to him, and to be a corrup- 
tion of his traditionary title o uyiog OtoXoyog. (See 
generally Cellarii Notit. ii, 80.) 

4. Government. — It is well known that Asia was a 
proconsular province; and in harmony with this fact 
Ave find proconsuls arot, A. A r . “deputies”) spe- 

cially mentioned (Acts xix, 38). Nor is it necessary 
to inquire here whether the plural in this passage is 
generic, or whether the governors of other provinces 
were present in Ephesus at the time. Again, we learn 
from Pliny (v, 31) that Ephesus was an assize-town 
( jorum or conn ntus) ; and in the N.-T. narrative (Acts 
xix, !>N) we find the court-days alluded to as actually 
being held (dyopmoi ciyovrai, A.Y. “the law is open”) 
during the uproar ; though perhaps it is not absolutely 
necessary to give the expression this exact reference as 
to time (see Wordsworth in loc.). Ephesus itself was 
a “free city,” and had its own assemblies and its own 
magistrates. The senate (yfpovtria, or fiorXfj) is men- 
tioned not only by Strabo, but by Josephus (A nt. xiv, 
10, 25 ; xvi, G, 4 and 7) ; and Luke, in the narrative 
before us, speaks of the cijpog (ver. 30, 33, A.V. “the 
people”) and of its eustomary assemblies (ivvopiy Ik- 
kXjjgi^, ver. 39, A.Y. “a lawful assembly”). That 
the tumultuary meeting which was gathered on the 
occasion in- question should take place in the theatre 


(ver. 29, 31) was nothing extraordinary. It w T as at a 
meeting in the theatre at Caesarea that Agrippa I re- 
ceived his death-stroke (Acts xii, 23), and in Greek 
cities this Avas often the place for large assemblies 
(Tacitus, Hist, ii, 80; Val. Max. ii, 2). We even find 
conspicuous mention made of one. of the most impor- 
tant municipal officers of Ephesus, the “toAvn-elerk” 
(q. A r .) ( ypappartvc ), or keeper of the records, Avliom 
Ave know from other sources to liaA’e been a person of 
great influence and responsibility. Jt is remarkable 
how all these political and religious characteristics of 
Ephesus, Avhieh appear in the sacred narrath r e, are il- 
lustrated by inscriptions and coins. An apytton, or 
state-paper office, is mentioned on an inscription in 
Chishull. The ypappartvg frequently appears; so 
also the ’A rricipxat and ardvimroi. Sometimes these 
Avords are combined in the same inscription ; see, for 
instance, Bockb, Corp. Inscr. 2999, 2994, 299G. The 
later coins of Ephesus are full of allusions to the Avor- 
ship of Diana in A’arious aspects. The Avord vtwKopog 
(Avarden, A. Y. “ Avorshipper”) is of frequent occur- 
rence. That w hich is gh'en last below has also the 
Avord cirdvirciTog (proconsul, A.Y. “ deputy’ ) ; it ex- 
hibits an image of the temple, and, bearing as it does 
the name and head of Nero, it must have been struck 
about tbe time of Paul’s sta} r in Ephesus. The one 
immediately preceding it bears the name (Cusinius) 
of the acting ypappartvg (“tOAvn-clerk”) at the time. 



Bronze Coins of Ephesus. 

5. The A siarchs. — Public games were connected 
Avith the Avorship of Diana at Ephesus. The month 



EPIIESUS 


244 


EPIIESUS 


of May was sacred to her. The uproar mentioned in 
the Acts very probably took place at this season. Paul 
was certainly at Ephesus about that time of the year 
(1 Cor. xvi, 8), and Demetrius might well be peculiar- 
ly sensitive if he found his trade failing at the time of 
greatest concourse. However this may be, the Asi- 
archs ('A map\m, A. V. “ chiefs of Asia”) were pres- 
ent (Acts xix, 31). These were officers appointed, 
after the manner of the auliles at Pome, to preside 
over the games which were held in different parts of 
the province of Asia, just as other provinces had their 
Galatarchs , Lyeiarchs , etc. Various cities would re- 
quire the presence of these officers in turn. In the 
account of Polycarp's martyrdom at Smyrna (Hefele, 
Pat. A post. p. 286) an important part is played by the 
Asiarch Philip. It is a remarkable proof of the influ- 
ence which Paul had gained at Ephesus that the asi- 
arclis took his side in the disturbance. See Dr.Words- 
worth’s note on Acts xix, 31. Comp. Asiarch. 

6. Religion. — Conspicuous at the head of the harbor 
of Ephesus was the great temple of Diana or Artemis, 
the tutelary divinity of the city. She was worshipped 
under the name of Artemis. There was more than one 
divinity which went by the name of Artemis, as the 
Arcadian Artemis, the Taurian Artemis, as well as the 
Ephesian Artemis. (See Dougtad Analect. ii, 91; 
Miinter, Refig. d. Knrthag. p. 53.) Her worship in this 
instance was said to have originated in an image that 
fell from heaven (cto7rtric, Acts xix, 35 ; comp. Clem. 
Alex. Protrept. p. 14 ; Wetstein in loc.), and believed 
to have been an object of reverence from the earliest 
times (Pliny, xvi, 79). The material of which it was 
composed is disputed, whether ebony, cedar, or other- 
wise (see Spanheim, ad Calhm. Than. ver. 239). She 
was represented as many-breasted ( TzohvpaGToq , mul- 
timamia, see Gronovii Thesaur. vii ; Zorn, Biblioth. 
Antiq. i, 439 sq. ; Creuzer, Symbol, ii, 176 sq.), al- 
though different explanations are given of her figure 
in this respect. The following is the description given 1 
by Mr. Falkener (Ephesus, p. 290, 291) of an antique 
statue of the Ephesian Diana now in the Naples Mu- 
seum : u The circle round her 
head denotes the nimbus of 
her glory; the griffins inside 
of which express its brillian- 
cy. In her breast are the 
twelve signs of the zodiac, 
of which those seen in front 
are the ram, hull, twins, crab, 
and lion ; they are divided 
bv the hours. Her necklace 
is composed of acorns, the 
primeval food of man. Lions 
are on her arms to denote 
her power, and her hands 
are stretched out to show 
that she is ready to receive 
all who come to her. Her 
body is covered with various 
beasts and monsters, as si- 
rens, sphinxes, and griffins, 
to show she is the source of 
nature, the mother of all 
things. Her head, hands, 
and feet are of bronze, while 
the rest of the statue is of al- 
abaster, to denote the ever- 
varying light and shade of 
the moon’s figure. . . . Like 
r Ehea, she was crowned with 
• turrets, to denote her domin- 
ion over terrestrial objects.” 
It will be seen, from the figure given, that this last 
differed materially from the Diana, sister of Apollo, 
whose attributes are the bow, the quiver, the girt-up 
robe, and the hound ; whose person is a model of fem- 


inine strength, ease, and grace, and whose delights 
were in the pursuits of the chase. See Diana. 

Around the image of the goddess was erected, ac- 
cording to Callimachus (Hymn, in Plan. 248), her large 
and splendid temple. This building was raised (about 
IPO. 500) on immense substructions, in consequence 
of the swampy nature of the ground. The earlier 
temple, which had been begun before the Persian war, 
was burnt down in the night when Alexander the 
Great was born (B.C. 355), by an obscure person of 
the name of Eratostratus, who thus sought to transmit 
bis name to posterity (Strabo, xiv, 640; Plutarch, 
Alex. 3; Solin,43; Cicero, De Nat. Deor. ii, 27) ; and, 
as it seemed somewhat unaccountable that the goddess 
should permit a place which redounded so much to 
her honor to be thus recklessly destroyed, it was given 
out that Diana was so engaged with Olympias in aid- 
ing to bring Alexander into the world that she had 
no time nor thought for any other concern. At a sub- 
sequent period Alexander made an offer to rebuild the 
temple, provided he were allowed to inscribe his name 
on the front, which the Ephesians refused. Aided, 
however, by the whole of Asia Minor, they succeeded 
in erecting a still more magnificent temple, which the 
ancients have lavishly praised and placed among the 
seven wonders of the world. It took two hundred and 
twenty years to complete. Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxxvi, 
21), who has given a description of it, says it was 425 
feet in length, 220 broad, and supported by 127 columns, 
each of which had been contributed by some prince, 
and were 60 feet high ; 36 of them were richly carved. 
Chersipliron, the architect, presided over the under- 
taking, and, being ready to lay violent hands on him- 
self in consequence of his difficulties, was restrained 
by the command of the goddess, who appeared to him 
during the night, assuring him that she herself had 
accomplished that which had brought him to despair. 
The altar was the work of Praxiteles. The famous 
sculptor Seopas is said by' Plinv to have chiselled one 
of the columns. Apelles, a native of the city, contrib- 



Aneient representation < 
lk Diana of the 1 phesians. 



“to"’ 30 ’ ao ■ 70 ‘ 90 ' 

Plan of the Temple of Diana at Ephesus. 


EPHESUS 


245 


EPHESUS 


uted a splendid picture of Alexander the Great. The 
rights of sanctuary, to the extent of a stadium in all 
directions round the temple, were also conceded, which, 
in consequence of abuse, the emperor Tiberius abolish- 
ed. The temple was built of cedar, cypress, white 
marble, and even gold, with which it glittered (Spanh. 
Observat. in Hymn, in Dian. 353). Costly and mag- 
nificent offerings of various kinds were made to the 
goddess and treasured in the temple, such as paintings, 
statues, etc., the value of which almost exceeded com- 
putation. The fame of the temple, of the goddess, and 
of the city itself, was spread not only through Asia, but 
the world, a celebrity which was enhanced and diffused 
the more readily because sacred games were practised 
there, which called competitors and spectators from ev- 
ery country. In style, too, this famous structure con- 
stituted an epoch in Greek art (Vitruv. iv, 1), since it 
was here first that the graceful Ionic order was perfect- 
ed. The magnificence of this sanctuary was a prov- 
erb throughout the civilized world (Philo Byz. Sped. 
Mund. 7). All these circumstances give increased 
force to the architectural allegory in the great epistle 
which Paul wrote in this place (1 Cor.iii, 9-17), to the 
passages where imagery of this kind is used in the 
epistles addressed to Ephesus (Ephes. ii, 19-22 ; 1 Tim. 
iii, 15; vi, 19; 2 Tim. ii, 19, 20), and to the words 
spoken to the Ephesian elders at Miletus (Acts xx, 
32). The temple was frequently used for the safe 
custody of treasure. Of more questionable character 
was the privilege which, in common with some other 
Greek temples, it enjoyed of an asylum, within the 
limits of which criminals were safe from arrest (Stra- 
bo, xiv, 041 ; Plutarch, De (ere al. c. 3; Apollon. Eph. 
epist. 65). By Alexander this asylum was extended 
to a stadium, and by Mithridates somewhat further; 
Mark Antony nearly doubled the distance ; blit the 
abuses hence arising became so mischievous, that Au- 
gustus was compelled to abolish the privilege, or at 
least restrict it to its ancient boundary. Among his 
other enormities, Nero is said to have despoiled the 
temple of Diana of much of its treasure. It continued 
to conciliate no small portion of respect till it was 
finally burnt by the Goths in the reign of Gallienus. 
(See Hirt, Der Tempel der Diana zu Ephesus , Berlin, 
1809.) 

The chief points connected with the uproar at Ephe- 
sus in the case of Paul (Acts xix, 23-41) are. mention- 
ed in the articles Diana and Paul; hut the following 
details must be added. In consequence of this devo- 
tion, the city of Ephesus was called rtwnopog (ver. 35) 
or “ warden” of Diana (see Van Dale, Dissert, p. 309 ; 
Wolf and Kuinol, in loc.). This was a recognised ti- 
tle applied in such cases, not only to individuals, but 
to communities. In the instance of Ephesus, the term 
is abundantly found both on coins and on inscriptions. 
Its neocorate was, in fact, as the “town-clerk” said, 
proverbial. Another consequence of the celebrity of 
Diana’s worship at Ephesus was that a large manu- 
factory grew up there of portable shrines (u«oi, ver. 
24, the (ajndpupara of Dionvs. Halicarn. ii, 2, and oth- 
er writers), which strangers purchased, arid devotees 
carried with them on journeys or set up in their 
houses. Of the manufacturers engaged in this busi- 
ness, perhaps Alexander the “coppersmith” (o ya\- 
Ktvij, 2 Tim. iv, 14) was one. The case of Demetrius 
the “silversmith” («pyupo7ro7oc in the Acts) is ex- 
plicit. He was alarmed for his trade when he saw 
the Gospel, under the preaching of Paul, gaining 
ground upon idolatry and superstition, and lie spread 
a panic among the craftsmen of various grades, the 
rtxidrat (ver. 24) or designers, and the ipydrai (v. 25) 
or common workmen, if this is the distinction between 
them. (See Schmid, Templet Demetrii argent ei, Jena, 
1695; W'ilisch, NwiTho vc it. Lips. 1710.) See Deme- 
trius. 

6. Magical Arts . — Among the distinguished natives 
of Ephesus in the ancient world may be mentioned 


Apelles and Parrhasius, rivals in the art of painting, 
Heraclitus, the man-hating philosopher, llipponax, a 
satirical poet, Artemidorus, who wrote a history and 
description of the earth. The claims of Ephesus, how- 
ever, to the praise of originality in the prosecution of 
the liberal arts are but inconsiderable, and it must be 
content with the dubious reputation of having excelled 
in the refinements of a voluptuous and artificial civil- 
ization. With culture of this kind, a practical belief 
in and a constant use of those arts which pretend to 
lay open the secrets of nature, and arm the hand of 
man with supernatural powers, have generally been 
found conjoined. Accordingly, the Ephesian multi- 
tude were addicted to sorcery ; indeed, in the age of 
Jesus and his apostles, adepts in the occult sciences 
were numerous : they travelled from country to coun- 
try, and were found in great numbers in Asia, deceiv- 
ing the credulous multitude and profiting by their ex- 
pectations. They were sometimes Jews, who referred 
their skill and even their forms of proceeding to Sol- 
omon, who is still regarded in the East as head or 
prince of magicians (Josephus, Ant.xxW, 2, 5 ; Acts viii. 
9 ; xiii, 6, 8). In Asia Minor Ephesus had a high rep- 
utation for magical arts (Ortlob, De Ephes. IJbris com - 
bust is, Lips. 1708). This also comes conspicuously into 
view in Luke’s narrative (Acts xix, 11-20). The pe- 
culiar character of Paul’s miracles (Fvvafuig ov rag 
ruxovacig, ver. 11) would seem to have been intended 
as antagonistic to the prevalent superstition. The 
books mentioned as being burned b} r their possessors 
in consequence of his teaching were doubtless books 
of magic. How extensively they were in use may be 
learned from the fact that “the price of them” was 
“fifty thousand pieces of silver” (more than $30,000). 
Very celebrated were the Ephesian letters (’E0teri« 
ypappara), which appear to have been a sort of mag- 
ical formulae written on paper or parchment,, designed 
to be fixed as amulets on di Horen t parts of the bod}', 
such as the hands and the head (Pint. Sym. vii ; Lake- 
inacher, Obs. Philol. ii, 12G; Deyling, Observ. iii, 355). 
Erasmus ( Adag . Cent, ii, 578) says that they were cer- 
tain signs or marks which rendered their possessor vic- 
torious in every thing. Eustathius («c/Ilom. Odys. x, 
694) states an opinion that Croesus, when on his funer- 
al pile, was very much benefited by the use of them; 
and that when a Milesian and an Ephesian weie wrest- 
ling in the Olympic games, the former could gain no 
advantage, as the latter liad Ephesian letters hound 
round his heel ; but, these being discovered and re- 
moved, he lost liis snperiorit} T , and was thrown thirty 
times. The faith in these mystic syllables continued, 
more or less, till the sixth century (see the Life of Al- 
exander of Tralles, in Smith’s Diet, of Class. Biog. s. 
v.). We should enter on doubtful ground if we were 
to speculate on the Gnostic and other errors which 
grew up at Ephesus in the later apostolic age, and 
which are foretold in the address at Miletus, and indica- 
ted in the epistle to the Ephesians, and more distinct- 
ly in the epistles to Timothy. See Curious Arts. 

7. Modern Remains. — The ruins of Ephesus lie two 
short daj r s’ journey from Smyrna, in proceeding from 
which towards the south-east the traveller passes the 
pretty village of Sedekuv ; and two hours and a half 
onwards he comes to the ruined village of Danizzi, on 
a wide, solitary, uncultivated plain, beyond which sev- 
eral hurial-grounds may be observed ; near one of 
these, on an eminence, are the supposed ruins of Ephe- 
sus, consisting of shattered walls, in which some pil- 
lars, architraves, and fragments of marble have been 
built. The soil of the plain appears rich. It is cov- 
ered with a rank, burnt-up vegetation, and is every- 
where deserted and solitary, though bordered bv pic- 
turesque mountains. A few corn-fields are scattered 
along the site of the ancient city, which is marked by 
some large masses of shapeless ruins and stone walls. 
Towards the sea extends the ancient port, a pestilen- 
tial marsh. Along the slope of the mountain and over 


EPHESUS 


246 


EPHESUS 


the plain are scattered fragments of masonry and de- 
tached ruins, hut nothing can now be fixed upon as 
the great temple of Diana. There are some broken 
columns and capitals of the Corinthian order of white 
marble : there are also ruins of a theatre, consisting 
of some circular seats and numerous arches, supposed 
to he the one in which Paul was preaching when in- 
terrupted by shouts of “ Great is Diana of the Ephe- 
sians.” The ruins of this theatre present a wreck of 
immense grandeur, and the original must have been 
of the largest and most imposing dimensions. Its form 
alone can now be spoken of, for every seat is removed, 
and the proscenium is a hill of ruins. A splendid cir- 
cus (Fellows's Reports, p. 275) or stadium remains toler- 
ablv entire, and there are numerous piles of buildings, 
seen alike at Perganms and Troy as well as here, by 
some called gymnasia, by others temples; by others 
again, with more propriety, palaces. They all came 
with the lloman conquest. No one but a Ttoman em- 
peror could have conceived such structures. In Italy 
they have parallels in Adrian’s villa near Tivoli, and 
perhaps in the pile upon the Palatine. Many other 
walls remain to show the extent of the buildings of 
the city, but no inscription or ornament is to be found, 
cities having been built out of this quarry of worked 
marble. The ruins of the adjoining town, which arose 
about four hundred years ago, arc entirely composed 
of materials from Ephesus. There are a few lints 
within these ruins (about a mile, and a half from Ephe- 
sus), which still retain the name of the parent city, 
A sal it k- — a Turkish word, which is associated with the 
same idea as Ephesus, meaning the City of the Moon 
(Fellows). A church dedicated to St.John is thought 
to have stood near, if not on the site of the present 
mosque. Arunddi (Discoveries, ii, 258) conjectures 
that the gate, called the Gate of Persecution, and large 
masses of brick wall which lie be} r ond it, are parts of 
this celebrated church, which was fortified during the 
great Council of Ephesus. The tomb of St.John was 
in or under his church, and the Greeks have a tradi- 
tion of a sacred dust arising every year, on his festival, 
from the tomb, possessed of miraculous virtues: this 
dust they term manna. Not far from the tomb of 
St. John was that of Timothy. The tomb of 31 arv 
and the seven Trcucici (boys, as the Synaxaria calls the 
Seven Sleepers) are found in an adjoining hill. At 
the back of the mosque, on the hill, is the sunk ground- 
plan of a small church, still much venerated by the 
Greeks. The sites of two others are shown at Asaluk. 
There is also a building, called the Prison of St. Paul, 
constructed of large stones without cement. The sit- 
uation of the temple is doubtful, but it probably stood 
where certain large masses remain on the low ground, 
full in view of the theatre. The disappearance of the 
temple may easily he accounted for, partly by the 
rising of the soil, and partly by the incessant use of 
its materials for mediaeval buildings. Some of its col- 
umns are said to be in St. Sophia at Constantinople, 
and even in the cathedrals of Italy. 

Though Ephesus presents few traces of human life, 
and little hut scattered and mutilated remains of its 
ancient grandeur, yet the environs, diversified as they 
are with hill and dale, and not scantily supplied with 
wood and water, present many features of great beau- 
ty. Arundell (ii, 21 1) enumerates a great variety of 
trees, which he saw in the neighborhood, among which 
may he specified groves of myrtle near Ephesus. He 
also found heath in abundance, of two varieties, and 
saw there the common fern, which he met with in no 
other part of Asia Minor. Dr. Chandler (p. 350, 4to) 
gives a striking description of Ephesus, as lie found it 
on his visit in 1701 : “ Its population consisted of a few 
Greek peasants, living in extreme wretchedness, de- 
pendence, and insensibility, the representatives of an 
illustrious people, and inhabiting the wreck of their 
greatness — some the substructure of the glorious edi- 
fices which they raised ; some beneath the vaults of 


the stadium, once the crowded scene of their diver- 
sions; and some in the abrupt precipice, in the sepul- 
chres which received their ashes. Such are the pres- 
ent citizens of Ephesus, and such is the condition to 
which that renowned city has been reduced. It was 
a ruinous place when the emperor Justinian filled Con- 
stantinople with its statues, and raised the church of 
St. Sophia on its columns. Its streets are obscured 
and overgrown. A herd of goats was driven to it for 
shelter from the sun at noon, and a noisy flight of 
crows from the quarries seemed to insult its silence. 
We heard the partridge call in the area of the theatre 
and of the stadium. The pomp of its heathen worship 
is no longer remembered ; and Christianity, which was 
then nursed by apostles, and fostered by general coun- 
cils, barely lingers on, in an existence hardly visible.” 
However much the Church at Ephesus may (Ucv. ii, 
2), in its earliest days, have merited praise for its 
“works, labor, anti patience,” yet it appears soon to 
have “ left its first love,” and to have received in vain 
the admonition — “ Hemcmbcr, therefore, from whence 
thou art fallen, and repent and do the first works; or 
else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove 
thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.” 
If any repentance was produced by this solemn warn- 
ing, its effects were not durable, and the place has long 
since offered an evidence of the truth of prophecy, and 
the certainty of the divine tlireatenings, as w r ell as a 
melancholy subject for thought to the contemplative 
Christian. Its fate is that of the once -flourishing 
seven churches of Asia : its fate is that of the entire 
country — a garden has become a desert. Busy cen- 
tres of civilization, spots where the refinements and 
delights of the age were collected, are now a prey to 
silence, destruction, and death. Consecrated first of 
all to the purposes of idolatry, Ephesus next had Chris- 
tian temples almost rivalling the pagan in splendor, 
wherein the image of the great Diana lay prostrate Be- 
fore the cross; and, after the lapse of some centuries, 
Jesus gave place to Mohammed, and the crescent glit- 
tered on the dome of the recently Christian church. 
A few more scores of years, and Ephesus had neither 
temple, cross, crescent, nor city, but was “a desolation, 
a dr> r land, and a w ilderness.” Even the sea has re- 
tired from the scene of devastation, and a pestilential 
morass, covered with mud and rushes, lias succeeded 
to the waters which brought up ships laden with mer- 
chandise from every part of the known world. (Sec 
Ilerod. i, 2G ; ii, 148; Livy, i, 45 ; Pausanias. vii, 2, 4 ; 
Philo Byz. cle 7 Orb. Mirac. ; Cretizer, Symbol, ii, 18; 
Ilassel, Erdbesehr. ii, 132.) — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. ; 
Fairhairn, s. v. 

7. Literature. — The site of ancient Ephesus has been 
visited and examined by many travellers during the 
last 200 years, and descriptions, more or less copi- 
ous, have been given by Pocoeke, Tournefort, Spoil 
and Wheler, Chandler, Ponjoulat, Prokesch, Beaujour, 
Schubert, Arundell (Seven Churches, Loud. 1828, p. 20), 
Fellows (Asia Minor, Fond, 1839, p. 274), and Hamil- 
ton. The fullest accounts arc, among the older trav- 
ellers, in Chandler (7 ravels, Oxford, 1775, p. 131), and 
among the more recent, in Hamilton (Reseatrhes, Fond. 
1842, ii, 22). Some views are given in the second vol- 
ume of the Ionian Antiquities, published by the Dilet- 
tanti Society. Leake, in his As/rt Minor (Loiul. 1824, 
]). 258, 34G), lias a discussion on the dimensions and 
style of the temple. In Kiepert’s Hellas is a map, 
more or less conjectural, the substance of which will 
be found in Smith's Diet, of Class. Geoy. s. v. Ephesus. 
The latest and most complete w ork is Falkener's Ephe- 
sus and the Temple o f Diana (London, 18G2, 8vo). A 
railway now renders Ephesus accessible from Smyrna 
(Pressense, Land of Gospel , p. 215). To the works 
above referred to must he added Perry. De rebus Ephe- 
siorum (Gott. 1837), a slight sketch ; Guhl, Ephesiaca 
(Berl. 1843), a very elaborate w ork, although his plans 
are mostly from Kicpeit; Hausen's Paulus (Gott. 


EPHESUS 


247 


EPHESUS 


1830), which contains a good chapter on Ephesus ; 1 
Biscoe, On the Acts (Oxf. 1820), p. 274-285 ; 31 r. Aker- 
man’s paper on the Coins of Ephesus in the Trans, rf 
the Numismatic Soc. 1841 ; Gronovius, Antiq. Grace, vii, 
3&7_401 ; and an article by Ampere in the Rev. des 
Deux Mondes for Jan. 1842. Other monographs are 
Anon. Acta Pauli cum Ephesus (Helmst. 17G8); gEpi- 
mis, De dttplki hapt. discip. Ephesinor. (Altorf, 1710); 
Benner, De bapt. Ephesiorum in nomen Chnsti (Gicss. 
1733); Bireherode./P cultu Diaiue Ephes. (llafn. 1723); 
Conrad, Acta Pauli Ephes. (Jena, 1710); Deyling, De 
tumultu a Dsmetrio (in his Obss. sacr. iii, 3G2 sq.) ; Le- 
derlin, De templis Diancc Ephesiorum (Argent. 1714) ; 
Schurzfleish, De Uteris Ephesior. (Viteb. 1G98); Siber, 
De 7 rfo iBpyia Ephesiorum (VJtcb. 1G85) ; Wallen, Acta 
Pauli Ephes. (Gryph. 1783) ; Stickel, De Ephesiis Uteris 
linguae Semitic ce vindicandis (Jen. 18G0). See Ephe- 
sians, Epistle to. 

EPHESUS, General Council of. The third 
oecumenical council, convoked by the emperor Theo- 
dosius II, was held at Ephesus in 431, upon the contro- 
versy raised by Nestorius, bishop of Constantinople, 
who objected to the application of the title of Gfo- 
tokoq to the Virgin Mary. For the circumstances 
which led to the convocation of this council, see the 
articles Nestorius, Nestorians, Pelagius. Celes- 
tine, the pope, not seeing tit to attend in person, sent 
three legates, Arcadius and Projectus, bishops, and 
Philip, a priest. Among the first who arrived at the 
council was Nestorius, with a numerous body of fol- 
lowers, and accompanied by Irencus, a nobleman, his 
friend and protector. Cyril of Alexandria also, and 
Juvenal of Jerusalem came, accompanied by about fif- 
ty of the Egyptian bishops; Memuon of Ephesus had 
brought together about forty of the bishops within his 
jurisdiction; and altogether more than two hundred 
bishops were present. Candidianus, the commander 
of the forces in Ephesus, attended, by order of the em- 
peror, to keep peace and order ; but by his conduct he 
greatly favored the party of Nestorius. The day ap- 
pointed for the opening of the council was June 7th ; 
but John of Antioch, and the other bishops from Syria 
and the East not having arrived, it was delayed till 
the 22d of the same month. At the first session of the 
council (June 22), before the Greek and Syrian bishops 
had arrived, Cyril and the bishops present condemned 
the doctrines of Nestorius, and deposed and excommu- 
nicated him. This sentence was signed by one hun- 
dred and ninety-eight bishops, according to Tillemont, 
and by more than two hundred according to Fleury ; 
it was immediately made known to Nestorius, and 
published in the public places. At the same time, no- 
tice of it was sent to the clerg} r and people of Constan- 
tinople, with a recommendation to them to secure the 
property of the Church for the successor of the de- 
prived Nestorius. As soon, however, as Nestorius had 
received notice of this sentence, he protested against 
it, and all that had passed at the council, and forward- 
ed to the emperor an account of what had been done, 
setting forth that Cyril and Memnon, refusing to wait 
for John and the other bishops, had hurried matters 
on in a tumultuous and irregular way. On the 27th 
of June twenty -seven Syrian bishops arrived, chose 
John of Antioch for their president, and deposed Cyril 
in their turn. In August, count John, who had been 
sent by Theodosius, arrived at Ephesus, and directed 
the bishops of both synods to meet him on the follow- 
ing day. Accordingly, John of Antioch and Nestorius 
attended with their party, and Cyril with the ortho- 
dox ; hut immediately a dispute arose between them, 
the latter contending that Nestorius should not be 
present, while the former wished to exclude Cyril. 
Upon this, the count, to quiet the dispute, gave both 
Cyril and Nestorius into custody, and then endeavor- 
ed, hut in vain, to reconcile the two parties. And thus 
matters seemed as far from a settlement as ever. The 
emperor at last permitted the fathers of the council to 


send to him eight deputies, while the Orientals or Syr- 
ians, on their part, sent as many. The place of meet- 
ing was Chalcedon, whither the emperor proceeded, 
and spent five days in listening to the arguments on 
both sides; and here the Council of Ephesus may, in 
fact, he said to have terminated. Nothing is known 
of what passed at Chalcedon, but the event shows that 
Theodosius sided with the Catholics, since upon his 
return to Constantinople he ordered, by a letter, the 
Catholic deputies to come there, and to proceed to con- 
secrate a bishop in the place of Nestorius, whom he 
had already ordered to leave Ephesus, and to confine 
himself to his monastery near Antioch. Afterwards 
he directed that all the bishops at the council, includ- 
ing Cyril and Memnon, should return to their respect- 
ive dioceses. The judgment of this council was at 
once approved by the whole Western Church, and by 
far the greater part of the East, and was subsequently 
confirmed by the (Ecumenical Council of Chalcedon, 

! consisting of six hundred and thirty bishops. Even 
1 John of Antioch and the Eastern bishops very soon ac- 
knowledged it. But Nestorius protested to the last 
that he did not hold the heretical opinions anathema- 
tized by the council. See Nestorius. 
i Of the other councils of Ephesus, the following are 
all that need be mentioned : 1, in 245 (?), against the 
Patropassian Noelus ; 2, in 400, under Chrysostom, 
where lleraclidus was consecrated bishop of Ephesus, 
land six simoniacal bishops deposed; and the Rob- 
ber Council (see next article). — Landon, Manual of 
{ Councils , p. 235; Mansi, Cone, iv, 1212, 1320, et al. ; 
Gieseler, Ch. History , § 88; Neander, Church Hist, ii, 
4G8 sq. ; Murd. Mosheim, Church Hist, i, 358 ; Palmer, 
On the Church , i, 385 sq. ; Cunningham, Historical The - 
i ology , i, 328 sq. ; llefcle, Cone llicngesch i elite , ii, 1G1 sq. ; 
►Smith, Tables of Church History; Christian Examin- 
er , liv, 40. 

EPIIESUS, Robber Council of (gvvocoq Ayrrrpi- 
kI]j latrocinium Epkesinum'), the so-called second gen- 
eral council at Ephesus, A. I). 449. Eutyclies (q. v.), 
whom Flavian us, bishop of Constantinople, had in the 
preceding year deposed on account of heretical opin- 
ions, appealed to a general council, at which the patri- 
archs of Rome, Alexandria, Jerusalem, Thessalonica, 
and other heads of the Church should be present, and 
prevailed upon the emperor to convoke the council im- 
mediately. Theodosius wrote to Pioscorus, bishop of 
Alexandria, desiring him to attend at Ephesus on the 
1st of August, with ten metropolitan and as many 
Egyptian bishops, and no more, in order to inquire 
into a question of faith in dispute between Flavianus 
and Eutyclies, and to remove from the Church the fa- 
vorers of Nestorius. In the same manner he wrote to 
other bishops, always fixing the same number of me- 
tropolitans and bishops, and especially forbidding 
Theodoret to leave his diocese. He sent bis own offi- 
cers, Elpidus and Eulogius, with authority to provide 
such troops as they might deem necessary, in order to 
carry into effect what might be required. The bish- 
ops who had sat in judgment upon Eutyclies at the 
I council held by Flavianus at Constantinople in 448 
! were present at the council, but were allowed to take 
no part in the debates, and Dioseorus was allowed to 
take the lead in everything relating to the council. 
The council met August 8, and about 130 bishops at- 
tended. Pioscorus and his party ruled throughout; 

I Eutyclies was declared orthodox, and re-established in 
his priesthood and office of abbot ; and sentence of 
deposition was pronounced upon Flavianus. Flavia- 
nus appealed from this decision to the bishop of Rome, 
whose legate, Hilary, boldly opposed the sentence ; at 
the same time many of the bishops on their knees im- 
plored Pioscorus to reconsider the matter; but he, de- 
termined to carry it through, cried out for the impe- 
rial officers, upon which the proconsul Proclus entered, 
followed by a band of soldiers, armed with swords and 
! sticks, and carrying chains, Avho by threats and blows 


EPIILAI 


248 


EPHOD 


compelled the bishops to sign the sentence of deposi- 
tion. This, at last, ninety-six of them did, many, 
however, being first severely wounded ; Flavianus 
himself was treated with . uch excessive violence that 
he died of the injuries he had received within three 
days ; it is said that Dioscorus jumped upon him as he 
lay upon the ground, and that Bursumas and the monks 
kicked him with the utmost brutality. To the con- 
demnation of Flavianus that of Eusebius of Dorylaeum 
was added, which ended the first session ; after which 
the legate Hilary, dreading fresh scenes of violence, 
lied secretly to Koine. In the following sessions The- 
odoret of l yre was deposed, also Domini s of Antioch 
and I has of Edessa; after which Dioscorus departed, 
and the bishops withdrew from Ephesus. Tims ended 
the (jin'oioc XytTTpiKi), as the Greeks justly named this 
disgraceful assembly, in which violence and injustice 
were carried on to the utmost excess. — Landon, Man- 
ual of Councils , p. 23G; Mansi, Condi vi, 588 et al. ; 
Neander, Ch. Hist, ii, 509 sq. ; Gieseler, Ch. Hist. § 89 ; 
Ilefele, Concili engeschichte, ii, 350 sq. ; Schaff, Church 
Hist, ii, 348; iii, 738; Hagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines , 
i, 278 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklojmdie , iv, 81 ; Wetzer und 
AVelte, Kirchen-Lcx. iii, 010 ; Lewald, Die sogenannte 
ffiinbersyiwde , in lllgen’s Zeitschrft fur d. histor. The- 
ol, 1838, p. 39. See Dioscokus. 

Eph'lal (Heb. EphlaV, ibsX, judiccitor ; Sept. 
'O (p\ac v. r. \A0«/o/\,Yulg. Ophlcd ), son of Zabad and 
father of Obed, of the lineage of Sheshan, of Judah (1 
Chron. ii, 37). B.C. post 1618. 

E'phod (Ileb. Ephod' y T£X, an ephod [q. v.] ; 
Sept. O Lxpic v. r. Sou^t, Vulg. Ephod), the father of 
Hanniel, which latter, as head of the tribe of Manas- 
seh, was one of the men appointed to assist Joshua and 
Eleazar in the apportionment of the land of Canaan 
(Num. xxxiv, 23). B.C. ante 1018. 

Ephod [rarely TEX], ephod' , twice [Exod. 

xxviii, 8; xxxix, 5] in the fern. aphuddali , 

something girt ; tTrwftc, Ecclus. xlv, 8), a sacred \ est- 
meist originally appropriate to the high-priest (Exod. 
xxviii, 1), but afterwards worn by ordinary priests (1 
Sam. xxii, 18), and deemed characteristic of the office 
(1 Sam. ii, 28; xiv, 3; Hos. iii, 4). A kind of ephod 
was worn by Samuel (1 Sam. ii, 18), and by David 
when he brought the ark to Jerusalem (2 Sam. am, 14 ; 
1 Chron. xv, 27); it differed from the priestly ephod 
in material, being made of ordinary linen (T2), where- 
as the other was of line linen (jw) ; it is noticeable 
that the Sept, does not give t7riof.iig or ’E (poke in the 
passages last quoted, but terms of more general im- 
port, r rro\t ) t^aWoQy oroA ;} fivooirt]. Attached to the 
ephod of the high-priest was the breast-plate with the 
Frim and Thummim ; this was the ephod by eminence, 
which Ahiathar carried off" (1 Sam. xxiii, G) from the 
tabernacle at Nob (1 Sam. xxi, 9), and which David 
consulted (1 Sam. xxiii, 9; xxx, 7). The importance 
of the ephod as the receptacle of the breast-plate led 
to its adoption in the idolatrous forms of worship in- 
stituted in the time of the judges (Judg. viii, 27 ; xvii, 
5 ; xviii, 14 sip). The amount of gold used hv Gideon 
in making his ephod (Jiulg. viii, 20) has led Gesenius 
( Thesaur . p. 135), after Yatke (ftibl. Theol. i, 2G7), fol- 
lowing the Peshito version, to give the word the mean- 
ing of an idol-image, as though that, and not the priest, 
was clothed with the ephod : but there is no evidence 
that the idol was so invested, nor does such an idea 
harmonize with the general use of the ephod. Idols 
of wood were often thus overlaid with plates of gold 
or silver, and are probably alluded to in Judg. xvii, 5; 
xviii, 17 20; llos. iii, 4; Isa. xxx, 22. The ephod it- 
self, however, would require a considerable amount of 
gold (Exod, xxviii, G sq. ; xxxix, 2 sq.), but certainly 
not so large a sum as is stated to have been used by 
Gideon ; mav we not therefore assume that to male 
an ephod implied the introduction of a new system of 


worship with its various accessories, such as the gra- 
ven image, which seems, from the prominence assign- 



The Sacerdotal Ephod, according to ltraun (Ue vest, scicerct. 
ii, 47S). 

A. Front view; /?. the hack, similar, hut without the straps, 
clasps, or space for the pectoral: together they constituted 
the two folds or leaves of which it was composed, 

united over the shoulders. 

Gy a. The two shoulder-pieces (POSTS'). 

b, b. The belt <71 wH), or two bands for girding it on. 

c, c. The two golden rings (PlPSIi) for fastening the bottom 
of the breastplate. 

d, it. The two bezels or settings (IV "2 ; A.Y. “ouches”), 
each with its memorial gem (CiX', “onyx stone”) en- 
graved with six of ihc tribal names ; serving also as clasps 
or buttons for fastening the shoulder-pieces together, and 
likewise ns attachments for the gold chains on the upper 
corners of the breast-plate. 

e, The vacant space, a span wide (rw dutKtiu) nepir/j-nna <rnt- 
OunvAy ffft for the insertion of the gem m eel breast-plate, ac- 
cording to Josephus (.luf. iii, 7, 5). 


EFHFHATHA 


240 EPHRAEM MANUSCRIPT 


ed to it in Judg. xviii, 31, to represent the Urim and 
Thummim, the molten image, and the Teraphim (xvii, 
4, 5), and would require a large consumption of met- 
al? The ephod was worn over the tunie and outer 
garment or pallium (Exod. xxviii, 31 ; xxix, 5), with- 
out sleeves, and divided below the armpits into two 
parts or halves, of whieh one was in front, covering 
the breast and bell} r , and the other behind, covering 
the back. These were joined above on the shoulders 
by clasps or buckles of gold and precious stones, and 
reached down to the middle of the thighs; they were 
also made, fast by a belt around the body (Exod. xviii, 
6-12). The ancient Egyptian priests appear to have 
been arrayed in white garments of the same materials. 
The hieror/rammat , or sacred scribe, especially wore, 
over the kelt or apron (corresponding to the Jewish 
sacerdotal “breeches’’ or drawers) which constituted 
the universal nether undergarment, a loose upper robe 
with full sleeves, whieh in all cases was of the finest 
linen, and was secured by a girdle round the loins. 
Sometimes a priest who offered incense was clad in 
like manner. At other times the priests wore, in ad- 
dition to the apron, a shirt with short tight sleeves, 
over which was thrown a loose robe, leaving the right 
arm exposed (Wilkinson, Ancient Egypt. i, 334). See 
Higii-priest. 



Ancient Egyptian Tunic. One of the two obtained by Gen. 
Heynier, when in Egypt with the French expedition, from 
the Arabs at Sakkarah, who said they had found them in a 
hole filled with sand. This is three feet square, shaped ex- 
actly like a modern shirt, but having patches of embroidery 
sewed upon the arms, shoulders, down the neck, and on the 
corners. The material is probably linen. The seams are 
covered with edging, the sleeves are bound, and the hole foi 
the neck has strings for drawing it closer ( Egyptian Antvj. 
ii, 119). Its resemblance to the Jewish ephod is very strik- 
ing, especially if, as Josephus says (lit sty).), the latter had 
sleeves. 



Eph'phatha (i>0a3-«, a Graecized form of the 
Svro- Chaldee imperative HFSi - } or UrSX, strictly 
nr^rx, meaning be opened, as it is immediately in- 
terpreted), an exclamation uttered by Christ in curing 
the deaf-mute (Mark vii, 34). 


a 


1 1=3 



Ephraem Manuscript (Codex Epiiraemi, usu- 
ally designated as C. of the Kew Test.), a very impor- 
tant uncial palimpsest, which 
derives its name from having 
been (about the 12th century) 
rewritten over with a portion 
of the Greek works of Ephra- 
em the Syrian (q. v.). It 
seems to have been brought 
from the East by Andrew 
John Lascar, at whose death 
(A.D. 1535) it passed into the 
hands of cardinal Kieolas Ki- 
dolti, and thenee, through Pie- 
tro Strozzi, into the posses- 
\ \ 1 §■ sion of Catharine de Medici, 

\ a ,\\ w.|. who deposited it in the Loyal 

.J. 2 Library at Paris, where it 
”*»! still remains (numbered MS. 
U r ^)- The old Greek writing, 
o f - which is barely legible (hav- 
ing been partly effaced to 
b make room for the later mat- 

( «**a W IT 3. contains portions of the 

OS Sept, version of the O. T. on 

f (54 leaves, and fragments 

^ La \J^ *2 r 3 (enumerated in Scrivener’s 
_ ^ .i S Introd. p. 94 note) of every 

£ o part of the N. T. on 145 
*■= leaves. It is elegantly writ- 
*- a. ten, veiy much resembling 
p | in form and arrangement of 
« the books and general ap- 
pearanee the Codex Alexan- 
=l 1 | drinus, and has but one col- 
I H iimn on a page, consisting of 
§ ,| 40 to 46 lines. The charae- 
© ^ ters vary in size, are soine- 
o*g what elaborate, and have the 
characteristics of the Alex- 
® * andrian recension, and of the 
J P 5th century. The Ammoni- 
— '§ an sections stand in the mar- 
a.2 hut not the Eusebian 
canons; the latter, perhaps, 
% © having been washed out, as 
3 ° they were usually in red ink. 
=• S There are no chapter divis- 
ions, and hut few punctua- 
tion marks. Traees of at 
^ u least three later correctors 
may be discovered ; the first, 
^ | perhaps of the 6th* century, 
•5 t inserted many accents, and 
the rough breathing ; by him 
Erg or the third hand (whose 
^ p changes are but few), small 
.5 © crosses were interpolated as 
•| ^ stops ; the second reviser, not 
g £ earlier than the 9th century, 
L appears to have clumsily add- 
ed the ecclesiastical notes in 
the margin. A chemical 
preparation, applied to the 
MS. at the instance of Fleek 
in 1834, though it revived 
much that was before illegi- 
ble, lias defaced the vellum 
with stains of various color. 
The older writing was first 
noticed b} r Peter Allix near- 
ly two centuries ago; vari- 
ous readings extracted from 
it were communicated by 
Boivin to Kuster, who published them in his edition 
of Mill’s N. T., 1711. A complete collation of the N.- 
T. portion was first made by Wetstein in 1716, for 


\< 





S £ 


EPHRAIM 


250 


EPIIRAIM 


Bentley’s projected edition, and used by Wetstein in 
bis own Greek Test, of 1751-2. In 1X43 Tischendorf 
published the X.-T. part fully, and the O. T. in 1845, 
in a splendid and accurate form, page for page and 
line for line, in capital but not fac-simile letters, with 
valuable prolegomena, etc. — Trcgellcs, in Horne’s Jn- 
trod. iv, 166 sq. ; Christian Remembrancer , Oct. 1862; 
Tischendorf, Nov . Test . Gr. 7th edit. p. cxlix sq. See 
Manuscripts, Biblical. 

E'phraim (Heb. Ephra'yim, C^SX, a dual form ; 
Gcsenius suggests = ; Burst derives from a 

sing. "H2X = fruitful ; Sept. ’Efaaif.t), the name 

of a man (including the tribe and tract named from 
him, with other kindred objects), and of one or two 
other places. Our account of them is in a large meas- 
ure compiled from the articles in Kitto and Smith. 

1. (Josephus Gnecizes ’1 fypaifiqg, Ant. ii, 7, 4.) The 
second son of Joseph by Ascnath, the daughter of Pot- 
ipherah (Gen. xlvi, 20), born during the seven years 
of plenteousness (B.C. cir. 1878), and an allusion to 
this is possibly latent in the name, though it may also 
allude to Joseph’s increasing family: “ The name of 
the second he called Ephraim (i. e. double fruitful- 
ness), for God hath caused me to be fruitful (“0 jSJl 
hiphrani ) in the land of my affliction” (Gen. xli, 52). 
Josephus (.4?^. ii, 6, 1) gives the derivation of the 
name somewhat differently — “Restorer, because he 
was restored to the freedom of his forefathers” («tto- 
iicov£ . . . cut rb ciTroCoOijrai). The first incident 
in his history, as well as that of his elder brother Ma- 
nasseh, is the blessing of the grandchildren by Jacob, 
Gen. xlviii — a passage on the age and genuineness of 
which the severest criticism has cast no doubt (Tuch, 
Genesis, p. 548 ; Ewald, Gesch. Isr. i, 534, note). Like 
his own father, on an occasion not dissimilar, Jacob’s 
eyes were dim so that he could not see (xlviii, 10; 
comp, xxvii, 1). The intention of Joseph was evi- 
dently that the right hand of Jacob should convey its 
ampler blessing to the head of Manasseh, his first-born, 
and he had so arranged the young men. But the re- 
sult was otherwise ordained. Jacob had been him- 
self a younger brother, and his words show plainly 
that he had not forgotten this, and that his sympa- 
thies were still with the younger of his two grand- 
children. He recalls the time when he was flying 
with the birthright from the vengeance of Esau; the 
day when, still a wanderer, God Almighty had ap- 
peared to him at “Luz in the land of Canaan,” and 
blessed him in words which foreshadowed the name of 
Ephraim (“I will make thee fruitful,” ^2*2, ma- 
phreka, Gen. xlviii, 4; “Be thou fruitful,” !“H3, pe- 
rch, xxxv, 11 ; both from the. same root as the name 
Ephraim') ; the still later day when the name of 
Ephrath (comp. Ewald, Gesch. i, 493, n.) became bound 
up with the sorest trial of his life (xlviii, 7 ; xxxv, 16). 
See Epiiraimite. Thus, notwithstanding the pre- 
arrangement and the remonstrance of Joseph, for the 
second time in that family, the younger brother was 
made greater than the elder — Ephraim was set before 
Manasseh (xlviii, 19, 20). Ephraim would appear at 
that time to have been about twenty-one years old 
(comp. Gen. xlvii, 2S). Before Joseph’s death Ephra- 
im’s family had reached the third generation (Gen. 1, 
23), and it may have been about this time that the af- 
fray mentioned in 1 Chron. vii, 21, occurred, when 
some of the sons were killed on a plundering expedi- 
tion along the sea-coast to rob the cattle of the men 
of Gath, and when Ephraim named a son Beriah, to 
perpetuate the memory of the disaster which had fall- 
en on his house. See Beriaii. Obscure as is the 
interpretation of this fragment, it enables us to catch 
our last glimpse of the patriarch, mourning inconsola- 
ble in the midst of the circle of bis brethren, and at 
last commemorating his loss in t he name of the new 
child, who, unknown to him, was to le the progenitor 


of the most illustrious of all his descendants — Jchosh- 
ua, or Joshua, the son of Nun (1 Chron. vii. 27: see 
Ewald, i, 491). To this early period, too, has been 
referred the circumstance alluded to in Psa. lxxviii, 9, 
when the “children of Ephraim, armed bowmen (‘ , J2w i *3 
A. V. “being armed [and] carrying 
bows,” which Qesenius and others support, from the 
Sept, and Vulg • although Ewald strikingly renders 
“carrying slack bows”), turned back in the day of 
battle.” Others, however, assign this defection to the 
failure of the tribe (in common with the rest of the 
Israelites) to expel the Canaanites (Judg. i, 29). 

1. Tribe of Ephraim. This tribe, although, in 
accordance with the ancient laws of primogeniture, 
inferior, as being the junior, yet received precedence 
over that descended from the elder Manasseh by vir- 
tue of the blessing of Jacob (Gen. xli, 52; xlviii, 1). 
That blessing was an adoptive act, whereby Ephraim 
and his brother Manasseh were counted as sons of Ja- 
cob, in the place of their father; the object being to 
give to Joseph, through his sons, a double portion in 
the brilliant prospects of bis bouse. Tims the de- 
scendants of Joseph formed two of the tribes of Israel, 
whereas every other of Jacob’s sons counted but as 
one. There were thus, in fact, thirteen tribes of Is- 
rael ; but the number twelve is usually preserved, 
either bv excluding that of Levi (which bad no terri- 
tory) when Ephraim and Manasseh are separately 
named, or by counting these two together as the tribe 
of Joseph when Levi is included in the account. The 
intentions of Jacob were fulfilled, and Ephraim and 
Manasseh were counted as tribes of Israel at the de- 
parture from Egypt, and, as such, shared in the terri- 
torial distribution of the Promised Land (Num. i, 33; 
Josh, xvii, 14; 1 Chron. vii, 20). The precise posi- 
tion of the immediate descendants of Joseph in Egypt 
might form an interesting subject for speculation. Be- 
ing the sons of one in eminent place, and through 
their mother connected with high families in Egypt, 
their condition could not at once have been identified 
with that of the sojourners in Goshen ; and perhaps 
they were not fully amalgamated with the rest of their 
countrymen until that king arose who knew not Joseph. 

The numbers of the tribe did not at all times corre- 
spond with the promise of the blessing of Jacob. At 
tiie census in the wilderness of Sinai (Num. i, 32, 33; 
ii, 19) its numbers were 40,500, plaeing it at the head 
of the children of Baehel — Manasseh’s number being 
32,200, and Benjamin’s 35,400. But forty years later, 
on the eve of the conquest (Num. xxvi, 37), without 
any apparent cause, while Manasseh bad advanced to 
52,700, and Benjamin to 45. GOO, Ephraim bad decreased 
to 32,500, the only smaller number being that of Sim- 
eon, 22,200. At this period the families of both the 
brother tribes are enumerated, and Manasseh has pre- 
cedence over Ephraim in order of mention. It is 
very possible that these great fluctuations in number 
may, in part at least, have been owing to the various 
standards under which the “mixed multitude” (2"’), 
i. e. mongrel population of semi-Hebrew Egyptians 
that followed the emigrating host (Exod. xii, 38), 
ranged itself in its fickleness at different times (J leth. 
Quart. Rev. April, 1863, p. 305 sq.). During the march 
through the wilderness the position of the sons of Jo- 
seph ami Benjamin was on the west side of the taber- 
naele (Num. ii, 18 24), and the prince of Ephraim was 
Elishama, the son of Ammihud (Num. i, 10). 

It is at the time of the sending of the spies that wc 
are first introduced to the great hero to whom the tribe 
owed much of its subsequent greatness. The repre- 
sentative of Ephraim on this occasion was “ Osliea, the 
son of Nun,” whose name was at the termination of 
the affair changed by Moses to the more distinguished 
form in which it is familiar to us. As among the 
founders of the nation Abram had acquired the name 
of Abraham, and Jacob of Israel, so Oshea, “ help,” 


EPHRAIM 


251 


EPHRAIM 



became Jehoshua or Joshua, u the help of Jehovah” 
(Ewaia, ii, 30 G). 

According to the arrangement of the records of the 
book of Joshua — the “ Domesday hook of Palestine” 
— the two great tribes of Judah and Joseph (Ephraim 
and Manasseli) first took their inheritance ; and after 
them the* seven other tribes entered on theirs (Josh, 
xv, xvi, xvii, xviii, 5). The boundaries of the por- 
tion of Ephraim are given in xvi, 1 10, and a part of 
it apparently in duplicate in ver. 5, 7. The south 
boundary was coincident for part of its length with 
the north boundary of Benjamin (q. v.), which latter, 
however, is somewhat more exactly stated in Josh, 
xviii, 12 sq. See Trick. Commencing at the Jor- 
dan, at the reach opposite Jericho (strictly Jordan of 
Jericho , au expression that would lead 

us to locate the boundary at the point nearest that 
city, did not the necessity of including within Benja- 
min certain other pretty well identified places compel 
us to carry it somewhat farther up the river), it ran to 
the “ water of Jericho,” probably the vicinity of the 
Has el-Ain ; thence by one of the ravines, perhaps the 
wady Samieli, it ascended through the wilderness — 
Midbar, the uncultivated waste hills — to Mount Bethel 
and Luz ; and thence by Ataroth, “the Japhletite,” 
Bethhoron the lower, and Gezer — places two of which 
are known — along the northern boundary of Dan (q. 
v.) to the Mediterranean, probably about Joppa. This 
agrees with the enumeration in 1 Cliron. vii, in which 
Bethel is given as the eastern, and Gezer — somewhere 
east of the present Hamleh — as the western limit. Jn 
Josh, xvi, 6, 8, we apparently have fragments of the 
northern boundary (compare xvii, 10), and as at least 
three of the points along that line (Asher, Tappnah, 
and Janohuh) are pretty well identified (see each 
name), we are tolerably safe in fixing the eastern ex- 
tremity on the Jordan at about the mouth of wady 
Fasail, and the western, or the torrent Kanah, at the 
modern Nahr Falaik, north of Apollonia. Bnt it is 


possible that there never was a very definite subdivi- 
sion of the territory assigned to the two brother tribes. 
Such ail inference, at least, may be drawn from Josh, 
xvii, 14 18, in which the two are represented as com- 
plaining that only one portion had been allotted to 
them. Among the towns named as Manasseh’s were 
Bethshean in the Jordan valley, Endor on the slopes 
of the “I.ittle Hermon,” Taanaeh on the north side 
of Carmel, and Dor on the sea-coast south of the same 
mountain. Ephraim thus occupied the very centre of 
Palestine, embracing an area about 40 miles in length 
from E. to W., and from G to 25 in breadth from N. to 
S. It extended from the Mediterranean on the W. to 
the Jordan on the E. : on the N. it had the half-tribe 
of Manasseh, and on the S. Benjamin and Dan (Josh, 
xvi, 5 sq. ; xvii, 7 sq.). This fine country included 
most of what was afterwards called Samaria, as dis- 
tinguished from Jiuhea on the one hand, and from 
Galilee on the other. See Samaria. 

The following is a list of all the Biblical localities 
within this tribe, with the probable modern sites; those 
not identified by any modern traveller are inclosed in 
brackets : 


Antipatris. 

Town. 

Kefr-Saba. 

Archi. 

do. 

[Krfi -Musr] ? 

Arumah. 

do. 

El-Ormah. 

Ataroth (-addar). 

do. 

A tar a. 

llaal-liamon. 

Vineyard. 

[S. 10. of Jenin]? 

Baal-shalisha. 

Town. 

See Sn alisiia. 

Beth-horon. 

do. 

V.ei t- 1 V. 

Bochim. 

Altar Stone. 

{K hxirb(‘t-J< radcli] ? 

Kbal. 

Mount. 

[Jcbcl Sitti-8 tlamiyeh ] 

Cfaash. 

do. 

[Sepulchral Hill S. of 
Tibneli] ? 

Gazer. 

Town. 

See Gezer. 

Gerizim. 

Mount. 

Jebel i t-Tur . 

Gezer. 

Town. 

A bn Shudich. 

Gibeah. 

do. 

Khurbet-Jibict? 

Gilgal (2 Kings ii, 2). 

do. 

JiljUia. 

Gif gal (Josh, xii, 23). 

do. 

Jitjuliych. 

Gob 

do. 

See Gezer. 

Jaeob’s Well. 

Well. 

J Ur- Yakub, 

Janoliah. 

Town. 

Yamtn. 


EPHRAIM 


252 


EPHRAIM 


Japhleti. 

Village. 

{Beit rnw]? 

Jeshanah. 

Town. 

[Ain-Siniu] ? 

Kanali. 

lirook. 

Saitr Fnlaikf 

Laslmron. 

Plain. 

See Siiauon. 

Leboiiuh. 

Town. 

Lubban. 

Lnz. 

do. 

[N T . of Unitin'] ? 

Michmeihah. 

do. 

[On Wady RidarJ ? 

JVIorch. 

llill. 

[S. ppur of Jebel Duhy] ? 

Pirathon. 

Town. 

Fern ta. 

Salim. 

do. 

Sheikh Salim. 

Samaria. 

do. 

Sebustiyeh. 

Saron. 

Region. 

See Sharon. 

Shalem. 

Town. 

Salim. 

Shalisha. 

Region. 

[ Khvrbet Ilatta ]. 

Sharon. 

do. 

N. part maritime plain. 

Shechem. 

Town. 

Sabi us. 

Shiloh. 

do. 

Seihm. 

Sychem or Sychar. 

do. 

See Siiecuem. 

Tappuali. 

do. 

'At&ff 

Thebcz. 

do. 

Tubas. 

Timnath (-heres or) 
-?e rah). / 

do. 

Tibnch. 

Tiphsah. 

Tirzah. 

do. 

[.4 sir o'] ? 

do. 

Ttdusa. 

Uzzen-sherali. 

do. 

\.Su(fa] ? 

Zahnon. 

Mount. 

{Jebel Sleiman ]. 


Central Palestine consists of an elevated district 
•which rises from the fiat ranges of the wilderness on 
the south of Judah, and terminates on the north with 
the slopes which descend into the great plain of Es- 
draelon. On the west a flat strip separates it from 
the sea, and on the east another flat strip forms the 
valley of the Jordan. Of this district the northern 
half was occupied b} r the great tribe we arc now con- 
sidering. This was the Ilar-Ephralm , or “ Mount 
Ephraim,” a district which seems to extend as far 
south as Hamah and Bethel (1 Sam. i, 1 ; vti, 17 ; 2 
Chron. xiii, 4, 19, compared with xv, 8), places but a 
few miles north of Jerusalem, and within the limits of 
Benjamin. (See below.) In structure it is limestone 
— rounded hills separated by valleys of denudation, 
but much less regular and monotonous than the part 
more to the south, about and below Jerusalem ; with 
“wide plains in the heart of the mountains, streams 
of running water, and continuous tracts of vegetation” 
(Stanley, Palest, p. 225). All travellers bear testimony 
1:> the “general growing richness” and beauty of the 
country in going northwards from Jerusalem, the 
“innumerable fountains” and streamlets, the villages 
more thickly scattered than anywhere in the south, 
the continuous corn-fields and orchards, the moist, va- 
pory atmosphere (Martineau, p. 516, 521; Van de Velde, i 
i, 3*6-8). These are the “ precious things of the earth, 
and the fulness thereof,” which are invoked on the 
“ten thousands of Ephraim” and the “thousands of 
Manasseh” in the blessing of Moses. These it is 
which, while Dan, Judah, and Benjamin are personi- 
fied as lions and wolves, making their lair and tearing 
their prey among the barren rocks of the south, sug- 
gested to the lawgiver, ns they had done to the patri- 
arch before him, the patient “bullock” and the “bough 
by the spring, whose branches ran over the wall” as 
fitter images for Ephraim (Gen. xlix, 22 ; Dent, xxxiii, 
17). And centuries after, when its gnat disaster had 
fallen on the kingdom of Israel, the same images re- 
cur to the prophets. The “flowers” are still there in 
the “olive valleys,” “ faded” though they lie (Isa. 
xxviii, 1). The vine is an empty, unprofitable vine, 
whose very abundance is evil (Ilos. x, 1) ; Ephraim is 
still the “bullock,” now “unaccustomed to the yoke,” 
but waiting a restoration to the “ pleasant places” of 
his former “pasture” (Jer. xxxi, is ; llos. ix, 13; iv, 
16) — “ the heifer that is taught and lovoth to tread out 
the corn,” the heifer with the “beautiful neck” (Hos. 
x, 11), or the “kino of Baslian on the mountain of Sa- 
maria” (Amos iv, 1). 

The wealth of their possession had not the same im- 
mediately enervating effect oil this tribe that it had 
on some of its northern brethren, c. g. Asher (<]. v.). 
Various causes may have helped to avert this evil. 1. 
The central situation of Ephraim in the highway of 
;J1 communications from one part of the country to 


another. From north to south, from Jordan to the 
Sea — from Galilee, or still more distant Damascus, to 
Philistia and Egypt — these roads all lay more or less 
through Ephraim, and the constant traffic along them 
must have always tended to keep the district from 
sinking into stagnation. 2. The position of Shechem, 
the original settlement of Jacob, with bis well and his 
“parcel of ground,” with the two sacred mountains 
of Ebal and Gerizim, the scene of the impressive and 
significant ceremonial of blessing and cursing; and 
the tomb and patrimony of Joshua, the great hero not 
only of Ephraim, but of the nation — the fact that all 
these localities were deep in the heart of the tribe, 
must have made it always the resort of large numbers 
from all parts of the country — of larger numbers than 
any other place, until the establishment of Jerusalem 
by David. Moreover, the tabernacle and the ark were 
deposited within its limits, at Shiloh; and the posses- 
sion of the sacerdotal establishment, which was a cen- 
tral object of attraction to all the other tribes, must, in 
no small degree, have enhanced its importance, and in- 
creased its wealth and population. It is, perhaps, to 
this fact that David alludes in Psa. cxxxii, 6, if by 
“ Ephratah” this tribe is there meant. 3. But there 
was a spirit about the tribe itself which may have been 
both a cause and a consequence of these advantages of 
position. That spirit, early domineering and haughty 
(Josh, xvii, 14), though sometimes taking the form of 
noble remonstrance and reparation (2 Chron. xxviii, 
9-15), usually manifested itself in jealous complaint at 
some enterprise undertaken or advantage gained in 
which they had not a chief share. To Gideon (Judg. 
viii, 1), to Jephthah (xii, 1), and to David (2 Sam. xix, 
41-43), the cn r is still the same in effect — almost the 
same in words — “ Why did ye despise us that our ad- 
vice should not have been first had?” “Why hast 
thou served ns thus that thou callcdst us not?” The 
unsettled state of the country in general, and of the 
interior of Ephraim in particular (Judg. ix), and the 
continual incursions of foreigners, prevented the pow- 
er of the tribe from manifesting itself in a more for- 
midable manner than by these murmurs during the 
time of the Judges and the first stage of the monarchy. 
Samuel, though a Levite, was a native of Hamah in 
Mount Ephraim, and Saul belonged to a tribe closely 
allied to the family of Joseph, so that during the priest- 
hood of the former and the reign of the latter the su- 
premacy of Ephraim may be said to have been prac- 
tically maintained. Certainly in neither case had any 
advantage been gained by their great rival in the 
south. But when the great tribe of Judah produced a 
king in the person of David, the pride and jealousy of 
Ephraim were thoroughly awakened, and it was doubt- 
less chiefly through their means that Abner was en- 
abled for a time to uphold the house of Saul ; for there 
are manifest indications that by this time Ephraim in- 
fluenced the views and feelings of all the other tribes. 
They were at length driven by the force of circum- 
stances to acknowledge David upon conditions ; and 
were probably not without hope that, as the king of 
the nation at large, he would establish his capital in 
their central portion of the land. Again, the brilliant 
successes of David, and Ms wide influence and relig- 
ious zeal, kept matters smooth for another period, even 
in the face of the blow given to botli Shechem and 
Shiloh by the concentration of the civil and ecclesias- 
tical capitals at Jerusalem. Twenty thousand and 
eight hundred of the choice warriors of the tribe, “ men 
of name, throughout the house of their father,” went as 
far as Hebron to make David king over Israel (1 Chron. 
xii, 30). Among the officers of liis court we find more 
than one Ephrn unite (1 Chron. xxvii, 10, 14), and the 
attachment of the tribe to his person seems to have 
been great (2 Sam. xix. 41-43). But as he not only 
established his court at Jerusalem, but proceeded to re- 
move the ark thither, making his native Judah the 
seat botli of the theocratic and civil government, the 


EPHRAIM 


253 


EPHRAIM, WOOD OF 


Ephrahnites, as a tribe, became thoroughly alienated, 
and longed to establish their own ascendency. The 
building of the temple at Jerusalem, and other meas- 
ures of Solomon, strengthened this desire ; and al- 
though the minute organization and vigor of his gov- 
ernment prevented any overt acts of rebellion, vet the 
train was then laid, and the reign of Solomon, splendid 
in appearance but oppressive to the people, developed 
both the circumstances of revolt and the leader who 
was to turn them to account. Solomon saw through 
the crisis, and if he could have succeeded in killing 
Jeroboam, as he tried to do (1 Kings xi, 40), the dis- 
ruption might have been postponed for another cen- 
tury. As it was, the outbreak was deferred for a time, 
but the irritation was not allayed, and the insane folly 
of his son brought the mischief to a head. Rehoboam 
probably selected Shechem — the old capital of the 
country — for his coronation, in the hope that his pres- 
ence and the ceremonial might make a favorable im- 
pression, but in this he failed utterly, and the tumult 
which followed shows how complete was the breach — 
“ To your tents, 0 Israel ! now see to thine own house, 
David !” Rehoboam was certainly not the last king 
of Judah whose chariot went as far north as Shechem, 
but he was the last who visited it as a part of his own 
dominion, and he was the last who, having come so 
far, returned unmolested to his own capital. Jehosha- 
phat escaped, in a manner little short of miraculous, 
from the risks of the battle of Ramoth-Gilead, and it 
was the fate of two of his successors, Ahaziah and Jo- 
siah — differing in everything else, and agreeing only 
in this — that they were both carried dead in their cha- 
riots from the plain of Esdraelon to Jerusalem. 

Thenceforth the rivalry of Ephraim and Judah was 
merged in that between the two kingdoms ; although 
still the predominance of Ephraim in the kingdom of 
Israel was so conspicuous as to occasion the whole 
realm to be called by its name, especially when that 
rivalry is mentioned. This title is particularly em- 
ployed in the prophetical books (Isa. ix, 8; xvii, 3; 
xxviii,3; Hos. iv, 17 ; v, 3; ix, 3). When the land 
of Ephraim is meant, the word is fern, in the original 
(Hos. v, 9); -when the people, mase. (Isa. vii, 8). Thus 
in two senses the history of Ephraim is the history of 
the kingdom of Israel, since not only did the tribe be- 
come a kingdom, blit the kingdom embraced little be- 
sides tile tribe. This is not surprising, and quite sus- 
ceptible of explanation. North of Ephraim the coun- 
try appears never to have been really taken possession 
of by the Israelites. Whether from want of energy 
on their part, or great stubbornness of resistance on 
that of the Canaanites, certain it is that of the list of 
towns from which the original inhabitants were not 
expelled, the great majority belong to the northern 
tribes, Manasseh, Asher, Issachar, and Naphtali. In 
addition to this original defect there is much in the 
physical formation and circumstances of the upper por- 
tion of Palestine to explain why those tribes never 
took any active part in the kingdom. They were ex- 
posed to the inroads and seductions of their surround- 
ing heathen neighbors— on one side the luxurious Phoe- 
nicians, on the other the plundering Bedouins of Midi- 
an ; they were open to the attacks of Svria and Assyria 
from the north, and Egypt from the south ; the great 
plain of Esdraelon, which communicated more or less 
with all the northern tribes, was the natural outlet of 
the no less natural high roads of the maritime plain 
from Egypt, and the Jordan valley for the tribes of 
the East, and formed an admirable base of operations 
for an invading army. But, on the other hand, the po- 
sition of Ephraim was altogether different. Tt was 
one at once of great richness and security. Iler fer- 
tile plains an<l well-watered valleys could onlv be 
reached by a laborious ascent through steep and "nar- 
row ravines, all but impassable for an army. There 
is no record of any attack on the central kingdom, 
either from the Jordan valley or the maritime plain. 


On the north side, from the plain of Esdraelon, it was 
more accessible, and it was from this side that the final 
invasion appears to have been made. But even on 
that side the entrance was so difficult and so easily de- 
fensible — as we learn from the description in the book 
of Judith (iv, (>, 7) — that, had the kingdom of Samaria 
been less weakened by internal dissensions, the attacks, 
even of the great Shalmaneser might have been re~ 
sisted, as at a later date were those of Holofernes. 
There are few things more mournful in the sacred 
story than the descent of this haughty and jealous 
tribe, from the culminating point at which it stood when 
it entered on the fairest portion of the Land of Promise 
— the chief sanctuary and the chief settlement of the 
nation within its limits, its leader the leader of the 
whole people — through the distrust which marked its 
intercourse with its fellows, while it was a member of 
the confederacy, and the tumult, dissension, and un- 
godliness which characterized its independent exist- 
ence, down to the sudden captivity and total oblivion 
which closed its career. Judah had her times of re- 
vival and of recurring prosperity, but here the course 
is uniformly downward — a sad picture of opportunities 
wasted and personal gifts abused. “ When Israel was 
a child, then 1 loved him, and called my son out of 
Egypt. ... I taught Ephraim also to go, taking them 
by their arms, but they knew not that I healed them. 
I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love 
. . . but the Assyrian shall be their king, because 
they refused to return. . . . How shall I give thee up, 
Ephraim ? how shall I deliver thee, Israel? how shall 
T make thee as Admah? how shall I set thee as Ze- 
boim ?” (Hos. xi, 1-8). See Israel, Kingdom of. 

2. Mount Ephraim, a mountain or group of moun- 
tains in Central Palestine, in the tribe of the same 
name, on or towards the borders of Benjamin (Josh, 
xvii, 15; xix, 50; xx, 7; Judg. vii, 2-1 ; xvii, 1; 1 
Sam. ix, 4; 1 Kings iv, 8). From a comparison of 
these passages it may be collected that the name of 
“Mount Ephraim” was applied to the whole of the 
ranges and groups of hills which occupy the central 
part of the southernmost border of this tribe, and 
which arc pi’olonged southward into the tribe of Ben- 
jamin. (See above.) In the time of Joshua these 
hills were densely covered with trees (Josh, xvii, 18), 
which is by no means the case at present. In Jer. 1, 
19, Mount Ephraim is mentioned in apposition with 
Bashan, on the other side of the Jordan, as a region 
of rich pastures, suggesting that the valleys among 
these mountains were well watered and covered with 
rich herbage, which is true at the present day. Joshua 
was buried in the border of his own inheritance in 
Timnath-heres, “in the mount of Ephraim, on tho 
north side of the hill Gaasli” (Judges ii, 9). 

EPHRAIM, GATE OF (C^EX ; Sept. 7 roA// 
’E fipcun), one of the gates of the city of Jerusalem (2 
Kings xiv, 13; 2 Cbron. xxv, 23; Neb. viii, 1G; xii, 
39), doubtless, according to the Oriental practice, on 
the side looking towards the locality from which it de- 
rived its name, and therefore on the north, probably at 
or near the position of the present “ Damascus gate.” 
See Jerusalem. 

EPHRAIM, WOOD OF (CP^X Sept, fyw- 

pog 'E (ppcn/n\ a forest (the word yaar implying dense 
growth), in which the fatal battle was fought between 
the armies of David and of Absalom (2 Sam. xviii, G), 
and the entanglement in which added greatly to the 
slaughter of tlic latter (ver. 8). Tt would be very 
tempting to believe that the forest derived its name 
from the place near which Absalom’s sbeep-farni was 
situated (2 Sam. xiii, 23), and whicli would have been 
a natural spot for his head -quarters before the battle, 
especially associated as it was with the murder of Am- 
non. Moreover, there appears to have been another 
woodland of Ephraim in the mountains belonging to 
that tribe in this neighborhood (Josh, xvii, 15-18). 


EPHRAIM 


254 


EPIIRATAH 


Rut the statements of xvii, 24, 20, and also the expres- 
sion of xviii,3, “That thou succor us out of the city,” 
i. e. Mahanaim, allow no escape from the conclusion 
that the locality was on the east side of Jordan, though 
it is impossible to account satisfactorily for the pres- 
ence of the name of Ephraim on that side of the river. 
The suggestion is due to Grotius that the name was 
derived from the slaughter of Ephraim at the fords of 
Jordan by the Gileadites under Jephthah (Judg. xii, 1, 
4, 5) : hut that occurrence took place at the very brink 
cf the river itself, while the city of Mahanaim and the 
wooded country must have lain several miles away 
from the stream, and on the higher ground above the 
Jordan valley. Is it not at least ecpially probable 
that the forest derived its name from this very battle? 
The great tribe of Ephraim, though not spec i all}* men- 
tioned in the transactions of Absalom’s revolt, cannot 
fail to have taken the most conspicuous part in the af- 
fair, and the reverse was a more serious one than had 
overtaken the tribe for a very long time, and possibly 
combined with other circumstances to retard material- 
ly their rising into an independent kingdom. But oth- 
ers suppose that it was because the Ephraimites were 
in the habit of bringing their docks into this quarter 
for pasture; for the Jews allege that the Ephraimites 
received from Joshua, who was of their tribe, permis- 
sion to feed their flocks in the woodlands within the 
territories of any of the tribes of Israel ; and that, as 
this forest lay near their territories on the other side 
the Jordan, they were wont to drive their flocks over 
to feed there (see Jarclii, Kimclii, Abarbanel, etc., on 
2 Sam. xviii, G). It is probably referred to under the 
name Epiirataii (q. v.) in Psa. cxxxii, G, where the 
other member of the verse has “fields of the tcoodP 
Others, however, not unreasonably suppose this to be 
a different locality. See Forest. 

2 . In “Raal-hazor, which is ‘by’ Ephraim,” was 
Absalom’s sheep-farm, at which took place the murder 
of Aninon, one of the earliest precursors of the great 
revolt (2 Sam. xiii, 23). The Hebrew particle nv, ren- 
dered above “by” (A.Y. “beside”), always seems to 
imply actual proximity, and therefore w*e should con- 
clude that Ephraim was not the tribe of that name, 
but a town. The cities of Dan and Asher are other 
instances of localities beyond the tribes, yet bearing 
their names; and the former suggests that the appel- 
lation may in all these cases have arisen by coloniza- 
tion. Ewald conjectures that the place here in ques- 
tion is identical with Epiiraix, Epiirox, and Ophraii 
of the 0. T., and also with the Ephraim which was 
for a time the residence of our Lord ( Gesch . iii, 210, 
note). Rut with regard to the first three names there 
is the difficulty that they are spelt with the guttural 
letter a yin, and this is very rarely exchanged for the 
alcph , which commences the name before ns. The 
Sept, makes the following addition to verse 34 : “And 
the watchman went and told the king, and said, I have 
seen men on the road of the Oroncn (rijc 6)piovi)v, 
Alex. T(oi' dpnoi'ii p) by the side of the mountain.” 
Ewald considers this to he a genuine addition, and to 
refer to 15cth-/wo«, NAV. of Jerusalem, off* the Nab- 
lus road, hut the indication is surely too slight for such 
an inference. Any force it may have is against the 
identity of this Ephraim with that in John xi, 54, 
which was probably in the direction N.E. of Jerusa- 
lem. Nevertheless, the best solution of the question 
appears to he to identify this place with the one fol- 
lowing. See Raal-iiazor. 

3. A city ( E (pomp \syoftkvijv tt/Aip) “in the dis- 
trict near the wilderness,” to which our Lord retired 
.vith his disciples when threatened with violence by 
the priests in consequence of having raised Lazarus 
from the dead (John xi, 54). By t he “wilderness” 
(jtpijftoc) is probably meant the wild uncultivated hill- 
country N.E. of Jerusalem, lying hetwee’n the central 
towns and the Jordan valley (see Lightfoot, //or. lleb. 


p. 97, 953). In this ease the conjecture of Dr. Robin- 
son is very admissible, that Ophraii (q. v.) of Benja- 
min (Josh, xviii, 23) and Ephraim are identical, and 
that their modern representation is et-Taiyibth , a vil- 
lage on a conspicuous conical hill, commanding a view 
“over the whole eastern slope, the valley of the Jor- 
dan and the Dead Sea” (Researches, ii, 121). It is 
placed by Eusebius ( Onomust . s. v. ’E typiov) eight Ro- 
man miles north of Jerusalem, while Jerome, with 
more probability, makes the distance 20 Roman miles. 
This indication would seem to make it the same with 
the Epiiraix or Epiiron which is mentioned in 2 
Cliron. xiii, 19, along with Bethel and Jeshanah, as 
towns taken from Jeroboam by Abijah. This, again, is 
doubtless the same which Josephus also names ( E0pn- 
t/i) along with Bethel as “two small cities” (tt oAi'y- 
j'£«), which were taken and garrisoned by Vespasian 
while reducing the country around Jerusalem ( War, 
iv, 9, 9). It is likewise probably identical with the 
Ephraim (see above) near Baal-Hazor (2 Sam. xiii, 
*23). See also Apiperema. 

E'phraimite, as a designation of a descendant of 
the patriarch Ephraim, is properly denoted in the lleb. 
by the patronymic son of Ephraim (Num. 

x, 52, plur. A.Y. “children of Ephraim”), or simply 
Ephraim (often rendered “ Ephraimites” in the A.Y.) ; 
but in Judg. xii, 5 it appears as a rendering of 
an Ephraihite (q. v.), meaning thereby, however, an 
Ephra unite, which is apparently likewise the meaning 
I of the same Heb. word in 1 Sam. i, 1 ; 1 Kings xi, 26, 
in both which passages, however, the A.Y. regularly 
Anglicizes “ Ephrathite.” The narrative in Judges 
raises the inquiry w hether the Ephraimites had not a 
peculiar accent or patois, similar to that which in later 
times caused “the speech” of the Galihcans to “ be- 
: tray” them to the inhabitants of Jerusalem (Matt- 
xxvi, 73). 

E'phrain (ITcb. in the margin Ephra' ym, 
but in the text Ephron' , i. e. which iat- 

I ter appears to be the genuine reading [see Epiiron] ; 
Sept. ’E0pwp, Vnlg. Ephron), a city of Israel, which, 

( with its dependent hamlets (r1-2 = “ daughters,” A. 
Y. “tow*ns”), Abijah and the army of Judah captured 
from Jeroboam with Bethel and Jeshanah (2 Cliron. 
xiii, 19). It appears to he mentioned in the Talmud 
| (Menach. ix, 1) as Ephraim (£A jS”). It has been eon- 
f jectured that this Ephrain or Epiiron is identical with 
the Epiiraim by which Absalom’s slieep-farm of Baal- 
liazor w'as situated (2 Sam. xiii, 23) ; also with the city 
called Epiiraim, near the wilderness in which our 
Lord lived for some time (John xi, 54) ; and with Orn- 
raii (!"P5“), a city of Benjamin, apparently not far 
from Betliei (Josh, xviii, 23; comp. Josephus, I Ear, iv, 
9, 9), and which has been located by Dr. Robinson (Re- 
searches, new* ed. i, 447), w*ith much probability, at the 
modern village of et-Tuiyibeh. (See Ewald, Ce.sr/n'f hte, 
iii, 219, 4GG; v, 365; Stanley, Palestine, p. 210.) See 
Epiiraim 3. 

Eph'ratah [some Ejilira'taK] (lleb. Ephra' thah, 
Gen. xxxv, 1G, 19; xlviii, 7 twice; l*sa. 
cxxxii, G ; Mic. v, 1 ; 1 Cliron. ii, 50 ; iv, 4 ; Sept. ’E0- 
or ’E0pa3«, Vulg. Ephrata, A.Y. “ Ephra tab” in 
all but Gen. and the last-named passage of Cliron., 
where it gives “ Ephrath”), a prolonged [or sometimes 
“directive”] form of Epli'rath (Hebrew* Epliratli', 
probably fruitful, 1 Cbron. ii, 19; Sept, 

Yulg. Ephrata'), the name of a woman and of one or 
two places. 

1. The second wife of Caleb, the son of Ilezron, 
mother of II ur, and grandmother of Caleb the spy, ac- 
cording to 1 Cliron. ii, 19, 50, and probably 24 [sec Ca- 
LEu-EPHRATAii], and iv, 4, in which last passage Ilur 
is apparently called “the father (i. c. founder) of Beth* 
lelicm” (see below). B.C. post 1356. 


EPIIRATAH 


255 


EPHREM 


2. The ancient name of Bethlehem in Judah, as is j 
manifest from Gen. xxxv, 10, 10; xlviii, 7, both which 
passages distinctly prove that it was called Ephrath or 
Ephratah in Jacob's time, and use the regular formula 1 
for adding the modern name, which is 

Bethlehem (comp. e. g. Gen. xxiii, 2 ; xxxv, 27 ; Josh, 
xv, 10). It cannot, therefore, have derived its name | 
from Ephratah, the mother of Hur, as the author of 
Qu est. Heir, in Paraleip. says, and as one might oth- j 
erwise have supposed from the connection of her de- | 
scendants, Salma and Hur, with Bethlehem, whieli is 
somewhat obscurely intimated in 1 Chron. ii, 50, 51 ; 
iv, 4. It seems obvious, therefore, to infer that, on the 
contrary, Ephratah, the mother of Hur, was so called 
from the town of her birth, and that she probably was 
the owner of the town and district ; in fact, that her 
name was really gentilitious. But if this be so, it 
would indicate more communication between the Is- 
raelites in Egypt and the Canaanites than is common- 
ly supposed. When, however, we recollect that the 
land of Goshen was the border country on the Pales- j 
tine side; that the Israelites in Goshen were a tribe 
of sheep and cattle drovers (Gen. xlvii, 3) ; that there 
was an easy communication between Palestine and 
Egypt from the earliest times (Gen. xii, 10; xvi, 1; 
xxi, 21, etc.); that there are indications of communi- 
cations between the Israelites in Egypt and the Ca- 
naanites, caused by their trade as keepers of cattle (1 
Chron. vii, 21); and that, in the nature of things, the 
owners or keepers of large herds and flocks in Goshen 
would have dealings with the nomad tribes in Pales- 
tine, it will perhaps seem not impossible that a son of 
Hezron may have married a woman having property 
in Ephratah. Another way of accounting for the con- 
nection between Ephratah’s descendants and Bethle- 
hem, is to suppose that the elder Caleb was not really 
the son of Hezron, but merely reckoned so as the head 
of a llezronite house, lie may in this ease have been 
one of an Edomitish or Horite tribe, an idea which is 
favored by the name of his son Hur [see Caleb], and 
have married an Ephrathite. Caleb the spy may have 
been their grandson. It is singular that “ Salma, the 
father of Bethlehem,” should have married a Canaan- 
itish woman. Could she have been of the kindred of 
Caleb in any way ? If she were, and if Salma obtain- 
ed Bethlehem, a portion of Hur's inheritance, in con- 
sequence, this would account for both Ilur and Salma 
being called “ father of Bethlehem.” Another possi- 
ble explanation is, that Ephratah may have been the 
name given to some daughter of Benjamin to com- 
memorate the circumstance of Rachel his mother hav- 
ing died close to Ephrath. This would receive some 
support from the son of Rachel’s other son Joseph be- 
ing called Ephraim , a word of identical etymology, as 
appears from the fact that *'T’“2X means indifferently 
an Ephrathite, i. e. Betklehemite (Ruth i, 1, 2), or an 
Ephraimile (1 Sam. i, 1). But it would not account 
for Ephratah's descendants being settled at Bethle- 
hem. From Ruth i, 2, where the sons of Naomi are 
called “Ephrathites of Bethlehem [of] Judah,” it would 
seem that Ephrath was the name of a district of which 
Bethlehem was the chief town ; and the designation 
of Mie. iv, 2 as “Bethlehem [of] Ephratah,” is ren- 
dered in Matt, ii, G, u Bethlehem [in the] land (y»J) of 
Judah,” as if to distinguish it by adding the name of 
a district, although a larger one (Lange, Comment, on 
Matt, in loe.). At all events we should note that in 
Gen., and perhaps in Chron., it is called Ephrath or 
Ephratah ; in Ruth, Bethlehem- Judah, but the inhabit- 
ants Ephrathites ; in Mieah, Bethlehem- Ephratah ; in 
Matt. Bethlehem in the land of Jitda. The Sept, sup- 
plies ['E (ppaSrct (avrt) tori Ib/oAtf//)] its omission 
among the cities of Judah in Josh, xv, GO (see Beinee- 
cius, Progr. on this point, Weissenfels, 1723). Jerome, 
and after him Kaliseh, observe that Ephratah, fruitful, 
has the same meaning as Bethlehem, house of bread, a 


view which is favored by the neighboring corn-fields. 
— Smith, s. v. Ver Poortenn has written monographs 
entitled Tahernacula Dei in Ephrata [Psa. cxxxii] 
(Coburg, 1739) ; Initia Bethlehemi (ib. 1728); also two 
entitled Fata Bethlehemi (both ib. eod.). See Beth- 
lehem. 

3. Gesenitis and others think that in Psa. exxxii, 
G, “ Ephratah ” means Ephraim (q. v.). The mean- 
ing of that passage, however, is greatly disputed. The 
most obvious reference is to Bethlehem , which is else* 
where known by that name (see above), and may here 
be spoken of as the residence of David at the time 
when as a youth he first heard of the sacred ark (so 
Hengstenberg, in loe.). Others consider the name as 
equivalent to the tribe Ephraim (eomp. Ephrathite for 
Ephraimite, Judg. xii, 5), which contained Shiloh, the 
depository of Jehovah's early favor (so Good, in loe., as 
most interpreters ; Dclitzsch, Commcntar. uber d. Psal- 
ter , ii, 2G5, argues at length in favor of this view). 
Perhaps the best explanation is that which refers the 
word to Mi. Ephraim (as a special designation of that 
part of the tribe which contained Shiloh), in parallel- 
ism with the other part of the verse alluding to the 
forest. Hnpfcld (in loc.), however, considers it as 
merely a poetical term for fruitful fell, e. g. Beth-she- 
mesli, the latter part of the verse alluding to Kirjath- 
jearim as the “ wood” (1^, yaar), 

Eph'rathite (lleb. Ephrathi ', b v^£N), the desig- 
nation of the inhabitants of two widely different local- 
ities. 

X. Properly Betiilehemite, or citizen of Ephrath 
(q. v.) or Bethlehem (Ruth i,2 ; 1 Sam. xvii, 12 ; Sept. 
’E^ s oa^a(or,Vulg. Ephratcens). 

2. By some confusion or analogy, an Ephraimite, 
or inhabitant of the tribe of Ephraim (q. v.) (Judg. 
xii, 5, with the art. Sept. Ik too 'E<f>gaip v. 

r. ’E +pa£iT))Q, Vulg. Ephruthrus , A.V. “an Ephraim- 
ite” [the last clause; in the two previous occurrences 
of the verse, as well as in the context, the original is 
Ephraim] ; 1 Sam. i, 3, ’E0pa</i, Ephratheeus , “an Eph- 
rathite;” 1 Kings xi, 26, o ’EfipctSi, Ephratcens , “an 
Ephrathite’’). 

Eplirem or Ephraem Syrus, an eminent Church 
father, and the greatest light of the Syrian Church, 
was born at Nisi bis (Sozom. II. E. iii, 16), Syria, or at 
Edessa, and flourished A.D. 370. The accounts of his 
early life are variant and unreliable. Ilis parents 
were heathen, according to one account, and drove 
him from home for becoming a Christian ; but, accord- 
ing to other accounts, he was bred a Christian by his 
Christian parents. Jacob of Nisibis took care of his 
education, and took him to the Council of Nieaja, A.D. 
325. In 363 Nisibis was ceded by the emperor Jovin- 
ian to the Persians, and Epbrem went to Edessa, whith- 
er the most distinguished Syrians eame to receive his 
instruction. Here lie lived as a heunit, only coming 
from his seclusion to teach and preach. 1 1 is repute 
for piety and learning became so great that he was 
elected bishop ; but when he heard of it he rushed 
forth into the market-place, and acted in such a man- 
ner that the people thought he was out of his senses. 
“He then absconded until another had been appointed 
to the office of bishop in his place. He now went to 
Caesarea in Cappadocia to see Basilius the Great, "who 
formed the highest opinion of his learning and piety. 
Eplirem spent the greater part of his life in writing 
and preaching on devotional and moral subjects, and 
especially against the Arian heresy ; but be was equal- 
ly energetic whenever there was any occasion to show 
by his acts that he really was the benevolent man that 
he appeared to be. This was especially manifest at 
the time when Edessa was suffering from famine: he 
gave his assistance everywhere ; he called upon the 
rich to help the poor, and he himself undertook the 
care of seeing that the poor received what was intend' 


EPIIREM 


256 


EPIIREM 


eel for them. lie was looked up to with admiration 
and reverence l>v his contemporaries, who distinguish- 
ed him by the honorable designation of k the prophet 
of the Syrians.’ He died about 378, having ordered 
in his will that no one should praise him, according to 
the common practice, in a funeral oration, that his 
body should not be wrapped up in costly robes, and 
that no monument should be erected on his tomb” 
(. English Cyclopaedia, s. v.). This “will” of Ephrem 
is, however, generally held to be spurious. 

All accounts unite in testifying to the virtues of 
Ephrem. Sozomcn ( Hist . Eccles. iii, Id) tells the fol- 
lowing story to illustrate his command of a naturally 
irascible temper. After a fast, his servant, presenting 
some food to him, let fall the dish on which it was 
placed. Ephrem, seeing him overwhelmed with shame 
and terror, said to him, “Take courage; as the food 
has not come to us, we will go to it.” Whereupon 
Ephrem sat down on the floor, and ate the fragments 
left in the broken dish. 

He. was a voluminous author, writing commentaries, 
practical religious works, sermons, and numerous po- 
ems. The commentaries and hymns are in Syriac; 
the other writings exist only in Greek and other ver- 
sions. It is doubtful whether he understood Greek; 
Sozomcn (1. c.) expressly says that he knew only Syr- 
iac, but that his -writings “ were translated into Greek 
during his life, and preserve much of their original 
force and power, so that they are not less admired in 
Greek than in Syriac.” One of the legends tells that 
in his visit to Basil both were miraculously enabled to 
speak the other’s language — Basil the Syriac, and 
Ephrem the Greek. “II is commentaries extended 
over the whole Bible, ‘ from the book of creation to the 
last book of grace,’ as Gregory of Nvssa says. We 
have his commentaries on the historical and phrophet- 
ical books of the Old Testament and the book of Job 
in Syriac, and his commentaries on the epistles of 
Paul in an Armenian translation. They have been 
but little used thus far by commentators. He does 
not interpret the text from the original Hebrew, but 
from the old Syriac translation, the Peshito, though he 
refers occasionally to the original. His sermons and 
homilies, of which, according to Photius, he composed 
more than a thousand, are partly expository, partly 
polemical, against Jews, heathen, and heretics. They 
evince a considerable degree of popular eloquence ; 
they are full of pathos, exclamations, apostrophes, an- 
titheses, illustrations, severe rebuke, and sweet com- 
fort, according to the subject; hut also full of exag- 
gerations, bombast, prolixity, and the superstitions of 
his age, such as the over-estimate of ascetic virtue, 
and excessive veneration of the Virgin Mary, the 
saints, and relics. Some of his sermons were publicly 
read after the Bible lesson in many Oriental, and even 
Occidental churches. His hymns were intended to 
counteract the influence of the heretical views of Bar- 
dcsancs and his son Harmonius, which spread widely 
by means of popular Syrian songs. ‘When Ephrem 
perceived,’ says Sozomen, 4 that the Syrians were 
charmed with the elegant diction and melodious versi- 
fication of Harmonius, he became apprehensive lest 
they should imbibe the same opinions; and therefore, 
although he was ignorant of Greek learning, he ap- 
plied himself to the study of the metres of Harmonius, 
and composed similar poems in accordance with the 
doctrines of the Church, and sacred hymns in praise 
of holy men. From that period the Syrians sang the 
odes of Ephrem, according to the method indicated by 
Harmonius.’ Thcodoret gives a similar account, and 
says that the hymns of Ephrem combined harmony 
and melody with piety, and subserved all the purposes 
of valuable and efficacious medicine against the heret- 
ical hymns of Harmonius. It is reported ‘that he 
wrote no less than three hmfdred thousand verses. 
But, with the exception of his commentaries, all his 
Syriac works are written in verse, i. e. in lines of an 


equal number of syllables, and with occasional rhyme 
and assonance, though without regular metre (Schaff, 
History of the Christian Church , iii, 952 sq.).” 

The best edition of his collected works is Ephraemi 
Syri Opera omnia , Gr., Svr., et Lat., edit a cum preefa- 
tionihus , notis , var. lectiowbus , studio J. S. Assemanni 
et P. Bencdetti (Roma?, 1732-4G, G vols. fob). Before 
this edition, many of his writings had been collected 
and translated from Greek into Latin by Gerard Voss, 
who published them (1) at Rome, A.D. 1589-93-97 ; 
(2) at Cologne in 1G03 and 1G1G ; and (3) at Antwerp 
in 1G19 (3 vols. in one). “The first volume consists 
of various treatises, partly on subjects solely theologi- 
cal, as the priesthood, prayer, fasting, etc., with others 
partly theological and partly moral, as truth, anger, 
obedience, envy. The second volume contains many 
epistles and addresses to monks, and a collection of 
apophthegms. Vol. iii consists of several treatises or 
homilies on parts of Scripture, and characters in the 
Old Testament, as Elijah, Daniel, the three children, 
Joseph, Noah. Thotius gives a list of 49 homilies of 
Ephrem (Cod. 19G), but which of these are included in 
Voss’s edition it is impossible to ascertain, though it is 
certain that many are not” (Smith, Dictionary of Biog- 
raphy, s. v.). 

Of separate works there are numerous editions, of 
which lists may be found in Hoffmann, Bibliorjraphi- 
sches Lexifcon , ii, 3 sq., and in Fabricius, Bibliotheca 
Graeca , ed. Harles, viii, 217 sq. An edition containing 
only the Greek writings of Ephrem was published by 
Thwaites (Oxford, 1709), edited from 28 MSS. in the 
Bodleian Library. An English translation from the 
Syrian by J. B. Morris (Gxf. 1847) contains 13 pieces 
of verse on the Nativity, 1 against the Jews, and 90 
on the faith. The Rev. H. Burgess has published Se~ 
led metrical Ilymns and Homilies of Ephraem Byrus , 
translated from the original Syriac, with an Introduc- 
tion, and historical and philological notes (Loud. 1853). 
In his introduction Mr. Burgess mentions, as extant 
in Syriac verse, “eleven excgetical discourses, more 
than a hundred controversial sermons, and nearly as 
many practical hortatory homilies, all in poetry; four 
pieces on the freedom of the will , not only in metre, 
but the strophes arranged in alphabetic order, like the 
verses of the 119th Psalm ; and he assures us that all 
these compositions show a high degree of poetic talent, 
and are distinguished for their ‘sonorousness and 
grace,’ and have ‘a charm which no translation can 
express.’ Indeed, almost all the three folios of St. 
Ephraem ’s printed works in Syriac are poetical. In 
this volume the author gives us translations of 35 of 
Ephraem’s Syriac hymns, and 9 of his metrical hom- 
ilies or sermons. They arc illustrated by a learned 
introduction and very instructive notes. More than 
half the hymns relate to death and eternity, and the 
others are on various topics pertaining to the Chris- 
tian life. The subjects of the poetical sermons are the 
following: (1) Paradise, (2) Satan, (3) to the clergy, 
(4) the Trinity, (5) matter not eternal, (G) error coun- 
terfeits truth, (7) the Trinity, (8) two natures of 
Christ, (9) man ignorant of himself” ( Biblioth . Saci'a , 
Oct. 1853, p. 835). M. Caillau published a Latin ver- 
sion of Ephrem in 8 vols. 8vo (Paris, 1832-35, forming 
vols. xxxiv-xli of the Pat res Selecti), in which the 
following order is used: 1. Commentaries; 2. Exeget- 
ical homilies; 3. Sermons; 4. Epistles; 6. Prayers. 
The writings of Ephrem in Armenian were published 
at Venice, 4 vols. 8vo, 1836. Hahn und Sieffert’s 
Chrestomathia Byriaca (Loipsic, 1825, 8vo) contains 19 
select hymns of Ephrem; see also Ilalin, Bardcsanes 
Gnosticns (Leips. 1819). A German version of many 
of his poems is given by Zingerle, A nsg. Schrifien des 
heil. Ephraem (Innspr. 1830-37, G vols.). His funeral 
sermpns are translated into Italian ( Inni funehri eh S. 
Efrem Siro , ti'adotti par Angelo Paggi e Fansto La- 
sinio, Firenze, 1851). In 1853 J. Alslebcn announced a 
complete edition of the Syriac works of Ephrem, in a 


EPHRON 


257 EPICUREAN PHILOSOPHY 


pamphlet (Berl.Svo) containing a sketch of Ephrem’s 
life, and some literary remarks of value. Many writ- 
ings of Ephrem remain in MS., of which there is a val- 
uable collection in the British Museum; among them 
a Chronicle, from Creation to the time of Christ, is as- 
cribed to him. 

See Cave, Hist. Lit. (Genev. 1720), i, 149 sq. ; Oudin, 
De Script. Eccles. i, 493 sq. ; Du pin, Auteurs Eccles. 
(Paris, 1593), ii, 145 sq. ; Ceillier, Auteurs Sacres (Par. 
1800), vol. vi, chap, i; Lardner, llwi’s, iv, 304 sq. ; 
Clarke, Succession of Sacred Literature , i, 403; Yon 
Lcngerke, Comm, de Ephraemo Syr. interprde (Halle, 
1828) ; the same, De Eph. Syr. art. hermeneutica (Kon- 
igsb. 1831) ; Villemain, Tableau de V eloquence Chrit . an 
4 me Siecle (Paris, 1849, 12mo), p. 242 ; Neve, De la Re- 
naissance des etudes Syriaques (Annales tie Philosophic, 
1854) ; North British Review , Aug. 1853, p. 247 ; Jour, 
of Sacred Literature July, 1853, p. 389; Ilodiger, in 
Ilerzog, Real-EncyTdop. iii, 85 sq. 

E'phron (Heb. Ephron , signif. doubtful; 

Sept. 'E0pwj',Vulg. Ephron), the name of a man and 
also of two or three places. 

1. The son of Zohar, a Hittite ; the owner of a field 
which lay facing Mamre or Hebron, and of the cave 
contained therein, which Abraham bought from him 
for 400 shekels of silver (Gen. xxiii, 8-17; xxv, 9; 
xlix, 29, 30; 1, 13). B.C. 2027. By Josephus (Ant. 
i, 14) the name is given as Ephraim (’Etypcupoc, and 
the purchase-money 40 shekels. See Abraham. 

2. The textual reading (but with initial X) in the 
Masoretic Bible, and the marginal in the A. Y. for 
Ephraim (q. \\), a city within the borders of the king- 
dom of Israel (2 Chron. xiii, 19). 

3. A mountain, the “cities” of which formed one 
of the landmarks on the northern boundary of the 
tribe of Judah (Josh, xv, 9), between the “water of 
Nephtoah” and Kirjath-jearim. As these latter are 
with great probability identified with Ain Yalo and 
Kuriet el-enab, Mount Ephron is probably the elevated 
region on the south side of wady Bcit-Hanina (tradi- 
tional valley of the Terebinth), near its junction with 
wady Ain-Hantyeh or wady el-Werd. This seems to 
be the “high plain” indicated by Schwarz (Palest, p. 
9G) as appropriately called Mount Ephron, in compar- 
ison with the deep valleys adjoining. The “cities of 
Mount Ephron” may then be denoted by such ruined 
sites as el-Sus and Mar-Zakaria in this vicinity. 

4. A very strong city (noXig fayd\i] oyuod a <f)6opa) 
on the east of Jordan, between Carnaim (Ashteroth- 
Karnaim) and Bethshean, attacked and demolished by 
J udas Maccabams (1 Macc. v, 46-52 ; 2 Macc. xii, 27, 
28; Josephus, Ant. xii, 8, 5). From the description 
in these two passages it appears to have been situated 
in a detile or valley, and to have completely occupied 
the pass. It was possibly near the outlet of the Jab- 
bok into the Jordan. Klodens conjectures (Landes- 
kunde von Paldstina , Bcrl. 1817, p. 75) that it was the 
present Kulat er-Rubud , a strong Saracenic castle on 
the top of a hill up the wady Rajib, and the residence 
of the chief of Jebel Ajlun (Burckhardt, Syria, p. 266 
sq. ; Robinson, Researches , ii, 121 ; iii, 166). 

Epicrates (’E7 rucpciTiig, controller , a common Gr. 
name), one of the generals left by Antiochus Grypus, 
in connection with Callimandcr, in charge of the Syr- 
ian forces besieging Hyrcanus in Samaria, but whose 
cupidity led him to betray Scythopolis into the hands 
of the Jews (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 10, 2, 3). 

Epicurean Philosophy — Epicurus. The 
Epicurean philosophy received its name and its com- 
plete development from its founder Epicurus. Little 
was added to the system by its disciples. It was a 
reaction against the Socratic School, and constituted 
one of the most marked forms of speculation during 
the period of Greek decline. It exercised considera- 
ble influence over the Latin world in the decay of the 
Roman republic, and during the first two centuries of 
III.— R 


the empire. With important changes of form, but 
with little modifications of spirit, it survived the over- 
throw of ancient civilization, perpetuated itself through- 
out the Middle Ages, reappeared with the revival of 
philosophy, and may still be recognised in many re- 
cent theories. 

The Epicurean philosophy, which has survived so 
many successions of empire, and so vast mutations 
of thought, is intimately connected with the earlier 
speculations of the Greeks. Its ethical views are di- 
rectly deduciblc from the Cyrenaic School ; but its de- 
pendence on the Eleatics is unmistakable. See Ele- 
atic School. In physics it displayed an inclination 
to return to the Ionic method. It is, however, in im- 
mediate affiliation with the doctrines of Democritus 
and Leucippus. From them it derived its atoms, and 
the casual formation of the universe. 

Notwithstanding its connections with previous modes 
of thought, the Epicurean philosophy is so definite in 
principle and form that it may be more readily treated 
without regard to its descent than almost any other 
type of speculation, ancient or modern. 

The Epicurean philosophy was full}’' developed by 
its founder, and was long contained almost entirely 
in his numerous productions. These perished early. 
Fragments only have been preserved in the philosoph- 
ical treatises of Cicero, the moral lectures of Seneca, 
and the late compilation of Diogenes Laertius. Epicu- 
rus’s physical theory of the universe, which formed the 
basis of his theological and ethical conclusions, is trans- 
mitted to us in its integrity in the abstruse but bril- 
liant poem of Lucretius. In consequence of the rever- 
ence of the disciples for the instructions of the master, 
and their abstinence from development of his teach- 
ings, Epicurus occupies a more prominent position in 
the exposition of his doctrine than any other Greek 
philosopher except Pythagoras. It is, accordingly, 
expedient to consider the circumstances of his life and 
the peculiarities of his character before entering upon 
the details of his system. 

Life of Epicurus . — Epicurus was of pure Athenian 
descent ; of a good family, though reduced to poverty ; 
and settled in Samos, where his father Ncocles was a 
cleruchus, and eked out a scanty support by the occu- 
pation of a school-master. His mother, Charestrata, 
added to the resources of a poor household by practis- 
ing enchantments and by other superstitious pretences, 
in which she w r as aided by her son, who may thus have 
acquired an early contempt for the current theology 
and superstition. Epicurus was born at Samos, A.G. 
342-1, seven years after the death of Plato, and within 
a year of Aristotle’s acceptance of the office of tutor to 
Alexander the Great. About the time of Alexander’s 
death, Epicurus came to Athens, at the age of IS, where 
he is supposed to have attended the instructions of 
Xenocrates in the academy. Aristotle was still teach- 
ing in the lvceum. Epicurus made no long stay at 
this time in the metropolis, but removed to Colophon 
and opened a school. He adopted the atomistic doc- 
trine of Democritus, and during five years undertook 
to teach philosophy at Mitvlene and Lampsacus. At 
the age of 35 he returned to Athens, taught philosophy 
there for a period of 36 years till his death, and be- 
came the founder of a sect, having at first been content 
with declaring himself a follower of Democritus. The 
groves of the academy were frequented by the Plato- 
nists under Xenocrates; “the shady spaces” around 
the lyceum were occupied by the Peripatetics under 
Theophrastus, who possessed a house and garden of 
his own within the precincts, which were bequeathed 
to his successors. Epicurus imitated the Peripatetic 
example, and purchased a garden in the heart of the 
city for 80 mina? (about $1400 in gold). This abode, 
the celebrated horti Epicuri, became the place of in- 
struction and of convivial assemblage, and gave name 
to the school, “the philosophy of the Garden.” The 
life of Epicurus was “ simple, temperate, and cheer- 


EPICUREAN PHILOSOPHY 258 EPICUREAN PHILOSOPHY 


fcil ;” he was “a kind-hearted friend, and even a pat- 
riotic citizen.” lie kept aloof from the political dis- 
tractions of the time, and took no part in public affairs. 
His maxim was \a9t fiuooac — avoid notice in life. 
The political and social disorders of the time, amid the 
wars of the Diadochi and the factious contentions of a 
city where liberty was supplanted by tyranny or an- 
archy, might suggest the philosophy which is supposed 
to have regulated his conduct, viz. that the mind alone 
is free; all without is at the mercy of capricious vio- 
lence or incalculable contingencies. In the progress 
of civil discords and convulsions the only hope of tran- 
quillity must be sought in absolute seclusion and dis- 
regard" of public transactions. 

In his quiet and graceful retreat, surrounded by af- 
fectionate pupils and admiring friends, enlivened by' 
the frequent presence of brilliant hetcene, one half of 
the long life of Epicurus was passed. His intercourse 
was characterized by genial good-humor, and his es- 
tablishment was conducted with frugal eleganee. Ilis 
temperament and his doctrine, bis habits and his pre- 
cepts, were in entire unison. He sought and obtained 
for himself the gentle pleasure, the unruffled serenity 
which he preaehed to his hearers. He was laborious 
in the dissemination of his opinions. He is designated 
as 7 To\vypct(fnbT(tTOQ by Diogenes, and is said to have 
written three hundred volumes, filled, of course, with 
repetitions. This copious authentic promulgation of 
his philosophy dispensed with any necessity for ex- 
pansion or commentary. The theory was, indeed, so 
simple and perspicuous that nothing remained to be 
stated after the first exposition. 

Before the death of Epicurus in A.C. 270, a rival 
school had arisen in Athens under the colonnades of 
the Painted Porch, and nearly every one of his tenets 
was directly opposed by Zeno of Citium and the Stoic 
philosophy. The reaction excited by the extreme 
materialism and fortuitism of Epicurus occasioned an 
equal extravagance on the other side. With Epicurus 
the universe was an aggregate of blind atoms com- 
pacted and diversified by an equally blind chance ; 
with Zeno it was a divine organism, vital in all its 
parts, and governed by the immutable decrees of fate. 
With Epicurus the deities were incognizant or regard- 
less of temporal affairs; with Zeno everything was 
controlled by a superintending Providence, whose will 
was an unalterable necessity, and manifested by the 
heavenly orbs (rider a conscia fati). 

The Philosophy of Epicurus divides itself naturally 
into three parts, Theology, Ethics, and Physics. The 
last alone received any thoroughly systematic devel- 
opment. It was devised as a scientific basis for the 
two former, which were rather foregone conclusions, 
in which “the wisli was father to the thought,” than 
strictly logical deductions from established principles. 
The philosophy of Epicurus was designed for his own 
immediate satisfaction, and for the practical uses of 
life. The logomachies of Plenties and Sceptics, Soph- 
ists and Socratics, had produced no settled convictions, 
and had arrested neither public calamities nor private 
wretchedness ; a doctrine was desired which might 
bring peace to tlie individual, and restore happiness or 
enjoyment to life. The canonization of pleasure, the 
regulation and sanctification of natural passions, seem- 
ed to afford the solution required, and Epicurus was to 
his time what Fourier was to tlie last generation. In 
order to sanction pleasure as the guide of existence, it 
was necessary to get rid of the menaces of conscience 
and the terrors of heaven. Hence Epicurus practical- 
ly denied the gods by relegating them to the eternal 
isolation of unconcerned indolence and reverie. 1 his 
was regarded by his votaries as the most essential 
service of his career (Lucret. i, G3-80). But to exor- 
cise the divinities and to abrogate religion, it .was nec- 
essary to explain tlie marvelous order, economy, and 
variety of the creation, without recourse to a creator; 
to furnish, like La Place, a system of the world which 


should exclude the notion of a divine architect. This 
task Epicurus undertook, with such materials as were 
at hand. The Eleatic School had asserted ail absolute 
severance of the divine and the transitory', and had 
devoted their regards to the former. Epicurus repu- 
diated the former, and confined his attention to the 
material and sensible, disproving all creative or divine 
agency by his physical doctrine, and maintaining the 
authorin' of carnal impulses and earthly pleasures by 
the repudiation of the gods and of their worship. 

Theology of Epicurus . — Epicurus acquiesced in the 
existence of the gods, but denied them any participa- 
tion in the process of tlie universe. He ascribed to 
them immortality and human form, and assigned to 
them attenuated and spectral bodies, as Milton also 
appears to have done ( u neyat esse corpus deorum , sed 
tamquam corpus, nec sanyuinem , sed tamquam sanyui- 
nemf Cic. De Nat. Deor. i, xxv). He accords to them 
indestructibility, immutability, and the serene happi- 
ness of eternal repose. Their tranquillity would have 
been disturbed by any care ; accordingly, they are en- 
tirely unconcerned with everything that falls under 
human apprehension. This mode of recognising and 
at the same time cashiering divinity has been recently 
imitated by Herbert Spencer. So far as human ac- 
tions or thoughts are concerned, the gods are practi- 
cally non-existent, and religion is nothing better than 
a vague and irrational superstition, founded upon 
dreams, and cherished bv ignorant fear. 

Ethics of Epicurus . — "Without divine sanction, with- 
out responsibility or existence hereafter, with neither 
reward nor penalty in a future life for “ deeds done in 
the body,” no real system of ethics is conceivable. 
There is no constraint, no obligation to rectitude ; 
there is no moral compulsion ; there is no domain for 
conscience ; there can only be a more or less judicious 
and provident adaptation of actions to the judgments 
or dispositions of men, and to the supposed satisfaction 
of the individual. Morality without religion is a pre- 
tence and a delusion. A tranquil and pleasurable ex- 
istence becomes the summuni honum of the sage ; the 
gratification of every passion as it arises the role duty 
of an eager and undisciplined nature. Every restraint 
is removed except such as may be voluntarily imposed ; 
and though cool, impassive, and indolent dispositions 
may maintain an external propriety of demeanor when 
exposed to no temptation, there can be no guarantee 
for rectitude of conduct, and the license of all passions 
will be gratified by the unclean beasts who wallow in 
the Epicurean stye. The insufficiency of tlie doctrine 
as a rule of conduct was exhibited from the very first. 
Epicurus placed the highest pleasure in undisturbed 
repose, but he considered every' pleasure to be good in 
itself; and his favorite disciple, Metrodorus, asserts 
that the dictates of natural reason would limit all care 
to the satisfaction of the belly, thus taking as the cor- 
ner-stone of the system the declaration of Ecclesiastes, 
“All a man’s labor is for his mouth.” Tlie stories 
which circulated in regard to the connection of Epi- 
curus and his companions with Loontium, Marrna- 
rium, and other notorious ladies of the like persua- 
sion, show that the tendencies of the doctrine were at 
once recognised, even if they were not illustrated in 
practice. 

As all the religious foundations of virtue were re- 
moved, no logical foundation remained. The canonic 
of Epicurus, which was at onee his logic and his meta- 
physics, amounted to the negation of any' absolute or 
immutable truth. The sensible impression was tlie 
sole criterion of truth. Every' sensation, as every' gen- 
eral conception, was necessarily true ; and we are here 
reminded, though in different modes and degrees, of 
the positions assumed by T Dos Cartes ‘and by Hume. 
No guidance is accorded for the conduct of the under- 
standing more assured than the immediate impression 
or the unregulated fancy', and the passions arc thus 
left without any' valid control by the reason. A life 


EPIPHANIUS 


EPICUREAN PHILOSOPHY 259 


according to natural impulses becomes therefore the 
aim and the dutv of a philosopher. 

The Physics of Epicurus were devised as a means 
of escape from all divine authority and superintend- 
ence. They constitute the most elaborate, coherent, 
and original portion of the Epicurean system. Even 
here there was little real original it} r . Epicurus was 
a man of little learning, of little logical perspicacity ; 
but he was actuated by a distinct purpose, and pos- 
sessed of a clear rather than a penetrating mind, lie 
diligently availed himself of everything subservient 
to his aims in previous systems, and worked out what- 
ever accorded with his plans into a plausible and su- 
perficial scheme, in which consistency was little re- 
garded, and acceptability assured by addressing the 
natural inclinations of men. The Physical Theory of 
Epicurus acquired more reputation in antiquity from 
its connection with theology and ethics, and from its 
exposition of Lucretius, than from any estimation in 
which it was held by the real students of science. The 
object of Epicurus was to explain, like Des Cartes, 
how the universe might have been formed and per- 
petuated without any foreign agency, though he went 
further than Des Cartes in rejecting even a divine 
agency for its first creation. 

The leading lines of his physical doctrine are that 
matter is uncreated and indestructible. Its primitive 
elements are indivisible particles — atoms — which are 
eternal and imperishable, passing through various 
combinations, and assuming new properties and forms 
according to these mutable compositions. These at- 
oms are infinite in number, and solid, though so small 
as to be imperceptible by the senses. They possess 
gravity, and move downwa ds in an infinite vacuum. 
Their descent, however, is not in a uniform line; they 
are deflected hv a spontaneous impulse, due to mere 
contingency, and come into collision, conjunction, com- 
position with each other. Thus worlds, infinite in 
number, and infinitely varied in their phenomena, are 
formed. These atoms are in a continual state of vi- 
bration or oscillation, and from their concretions and 
dissolutions, their coherences and dissidencies, all the 
multitudinous changes of inorganic and organic nature 
are derived. All, however, are governed by chance 
alone; there is no compulsion, no necessity, no exter- 
nal law, no decree of Lite. The cause of being is not 
extrinsic, but is involved in the process and act of be- 
ing. No room is allowed for the operation of any con- 
scious and ordaining intelligence ; the world is nothing 
more than the curious result of uncomprehending, un- 
designing accidents. It will be observed that this the- 
ory of Epicurus differs from the vortices of Des Cartes 
in little more than in ascribing a straight, downward, 
hut variable motion to the atoms in a vacuum, while 
Cartesianism assigns to them a gyratory movement 
and denies a vacuum. The difference is more obvi- 
ous between this system and the recent doctrine of 
evolution, but the logieal principle is the same — the 
construction and continuation of the universe by sim- 
ple elements and simple forces generated within its 
own sphere, and independent of foreign determination. 
It is consequently not surprising that an attempt has 
been very recently made to bring the Epicurean Phys- 
ics into harmony with modern science, whose present 
tendencies are in the direction of similar irrational 
self-sufficiency. A like attempt was made by Gas- 
sendi more legitimately, but without any permanent 
acceptance, in the 17th century; and it may be con- 
fidently asserted that, in an age of infidel appetencies, 
there will always be a revival of the Epicurean phi- 
losophy and Epicurean proclivities. 

Authorities. — The historians of ancient philosophy: 
Bayle, tit. “ Leucippi Lncrcce Gassendi, De Vita ct 
Moribus Epicnri (Hag. Com it. 1G5G, 4to); Syntagma 
philosophies Epicnri (1659) ; Bremer, Versueh einer Apnl- 
oyie des Epicur (Berlin, 177G, 8vo) ; Boiidel, La Vie 
d Epicure (Par. 1G79); Warnekros, Apologie und Leben 


Epicurs (Greifswald, 1795, 8vo); Munro, Lucretius , with 
a Translation and Notes ( Cambridge and London, 18G4, 
2 vols. 8vo) ; Lange, Gesch. des Afaterialismus (Iser- 
lohn,18G6); North Brit. Rev. March, 1868. (G. V. II.) 

Epicure'ans (’ETruconptiot, Acts xvii, 18), follow- 
ers of Epicurus or adherents of the Epicurean philoso- 
phy (q. v.). 

Epimenides, a Greek poet, born in Crete, and 
highly revered as a prophet and natural sage at Ath- 
ens, where he came by invitation B.C. eir. 59G, and 
spent a long life. Our chief account of him is given 
by Diogenes Laeitins (i, 10). He is said to have writ- 
ten prose woiks on sacrifices and the political consti- 
tution of Crete, together with two letters to Solon, 
which have all perished, as the extant copies of the 
last are spurious. Diogenes also attributes to him 
poetical works entitled the “Genesis and Theogony” 
of the Curetes and Corybantes (in 5000 verses), an 
epic on Jason and the Argonauts (in G500 verses), and 
an epic on Minos and Khadamanthys (in 4000 verses) ; 
but it is doubtful whether he ever wrote them. lie 
may have been the author of poems called “LTseful” 
and “ Pure” (Xogoifeoi and K aSappof), which are as- 
cribed to him by other ancient authorities (Suidas, s. 
v. ’ETrifUvicijg; Strabo, x, p. 479; Pausan. i, 14, 4). 
But all these have equally perished. He is probably 
referred to by the apostle Paul in the words (Tit. i, 
12; see Alford, Gr. Test, in loc.), “One of themselves 
[the Cretans], even a prophet of their own, said, ‘The 
Cretans are always liars,’ ” etc., apparently quoting 
from certain old-fashioned poems written upon skins, 
and popularly attributed to Epimenides. — Smith, Diet, 
of Class. Biogr. s. v. ; Ileinrieh, Epimenides aus Greta 
(Lpz. 1801) ; also the monographs JJe Epimenide of 
Gottschalek (Altorf, 1714), and Schuremann (Hafn. 
1733). 

Epiph'anes (’EvKpavgc, manifest , hence famous ), 
an epithet given to the gods when appearing to men. 
The Syiian king Antioehus, brother of Seleucus, com- 
ing fortunately into Syria a little after the death of 
his brother, was regarded as some propitious deity, 
and was hence called Epiphanes — the splendid (1 Mace. 

1, 10; x, 1 ; 2 Maec. iv, 17 ; x, 9). See Antiochus 3. 

Epiphanes, or Epiphanius, son of Carpoerates, 
heretic and gnostie, like his father. He supposed an 
infinite eternal principle, and united with this funda- 
mental principle the system of Valentinus. Accord- 
ing to him, as according to some modern reformers, it 
is ignorance and passion which, in disturbing the equal- 
ity and the community of goods, have introduced evil 
into the world ; and the idea of property forms no part 
of the divine plan, but is of human invention. He 
concluded, therefore, that all laws should be suppress- 
ed, and equality re-established. He concluded, also, 
that the community of wives, as well as of the fruits 
of the earth, is necessary to the re-establishment of 
order. He died at the early age of seventeen years. 
A temple was consecrated to him in Cephalonia. — 
Neander, Ch. Hist, i, 449 ; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. bk. i, e. 

2, pt. ii, ch. v, § 14, n. 17 ; Iloefer, Nouv. Blog. Genir. 
xvi, 159. 

Epiphania. See Hamatii. 

Epiphanius (EttkPcivioc), bishop of Constantia, 
one of the Church fathers, was horn in Palestine, near 
Elentheropolis, in the early part of the 4th century 
(between 310 and 320). His parents are said to have 
been Jews, but in his sixteenth year lie embraced 
Christianity ; the only case of the kind among the fa- 
thers, for the rest of them were either converts from 
heathenism, or horn of Christian parents. He went 
to Egypt, and there gave himself to ascetic life among 
the monks; one record also says that he imbibed Gnos- 
tic errors, from which he was reclaimed by the monk- 
ish discipline. He became an earnest patron and 
friend of monasticism, and founded a monastery near 


EPIPHANIUS 


2G0 


EPIPHANIUS 


his native village, of which he became abbot. In 367 
he was elected bishop of Constantin (Salamis), the 
metropolis of Cyprus. Here he remained thirty-six 
years, busy with the duties of his episcopate, and es- 
pecially busy with his pen. lie devoted himself to 
the vindication of orthodoxy with unquestioned learn- 
ing, but with intemperate zeal and violence. He cher- 
ished a special hatred lor Origen and his doctrines, and 
wrote, preached, and travelled in order to destroy their 
influence in the Church. This hatred led him into a 
quarrel with John, bishop of Jerusalem. “A report 
that Origen’s opinions were spreading in Palestine, 
and sanctioned even by John, bishop otMerusaleni, ex- 
cited Epiphanius to such a pitch that he left Cyprus 
(A.l). 304) to investigate the matter on the spot. At 
Jerusalem he preached so violent a sermon against any 
abettors of Origcn’s errors, and made such evident al- 
lusions to the bishop, that John sent his archdeacon to 
beg him to stop. Afterwards, when John preached 
against anthropomorphism (of a tendency to which Ep- 
iphanius had been suspected), he was followed up to 
the pulpit by his undaunted antagonist, who announced 
that he agreed in John’s censure of anthropomorpbites, 
but that it was equally necessary to condemn Origen- 
ists. Having excited sufficient commotion at Jerusa- 
lem, Epiphanius repaired to Bethlehem, where he was 
all-powerful with the monks; and there be was so suc- 
cessful in his denunciation of heresy, that he persuaded 
some to renounce their connection with the bishop of 
Jerusalem” (Smith, Diet, of Biog. s. v.). He also in- 
terfered with the diocesan jurisdiction of John, by or- 
daining one Paulinianius in Palestine. The quarrel 
became very bitter, and was for many years a source 
of great trouble and injury to the Church. Epiphanius 
formed an alliance with the violent and unscrupulous 
Theophilus of Alexandria (q. v.), who had been an 
Origenist, but, for his own purposes, changed bis pro- 
fessed opinions on the subject, and ordered the Nitrian 
monks to give up all Origeif s writings. They refused, 
and be called a council at Alexandria, A.D. 890, which 
condemned Origen, his writings, and his followers. 
Soldiers were sent to drive the monks from Nitria. 
Some of them went to Constantinople, where Chrysos- 
tom (q. v.) gave them his protection. Theophilus per- 
suaded Epiphanius (now over 80 years old) to call a 
council of Cyprian bishops (A.D. 401). Here Origen 
was again condemned. Epiphanius wrote to Chrysos- 
tom to join in this condemnation. As Chrysostom did 
not reply, Epiphanius took it for granted that he favor- 
ed Origenism, and determined to go in person to Con- 
stantinople to “crush Amalek,” to use his own words 
(in a letter to Jerome). Sozomen {Keel. Hist, viii, 14) 
gives a pretty full account of this visit, saying that, 
on the arrival of Epiphanius, Chrysostom went out 
with all bis clergy to meet the visitor and do him hon- 
or; “but Epiphanius declared that be would neither 
reside with John, nor pray with him, unless he would 
denounce the works of Origen, and expel Dioscorus and 
his companions from the city. Not considering it just 
to act in the manner proposed until judgment had been 
passed on the case, John tried to postpone the adoption 
of further measures to some future time. In the mean 
time his enemies met together, and arranged that on 
the day when the people would be assembled in the 
Church of the Apostles, Epiphanius should publicly 
pronounce condemnation on the works of Origen, and 
on Dioscorus and bis companions as the partisans of 
this writer; and also denounce the bishop of the city 
as the abettor of Dioscorus. By this means it was 
hoped that the affections of the people would be alien- 
ated from their bishop. The following day, when Ep- 
iphanius was about entering the Church, in order to 
carry his design into execution, he was stopped by Sc- 
rapion, at the command of Jolm, who had received in- 
timation of the plot. Serapion proved to Epiphanius 
that while the project he had devised was' unjust in it- 
self, it could be of no personal advantage to him, for 


that, if it should excite a popular insurrection, he would 
be regarded as responsible for the outrages that might 
I follow. By these arguments Epiphanius was induced 
to relinquish his designs.” About this time the em- 
! press Eudoxia sent for Epiphanius to pray for her son 
Theodosius, who was ill ; Epiphanius replied that her 
' son would recover provided she would not patronize 
the defenders of Origen. To this message the em- 
press answered that Epiphanius had failed to save that 
of his own archdeacon, who had recently died. Final- 
ly, some of the Origenists had a conversation with Ep- 
iphanius, in which they seem to have convinced him 
that he had acted rashly. Soon after (Sozomen, l. c.), 
he embarked for Cyprus, either because he recognised 
I the futility of his journey to Constantinople, or be- 
i cause, as there is reason to believe, God had revealed 
to him his approaching death, for he died while on his 
voyage back to Cyprus. It is reported that he sakl to 
the bishops who had accompanied him to the place of 
embarkation, 1 leave you the city, the palace, and 
the stage, for I shall shortly depart.” He died at sea, 
on his return to Cyprus, A.D. 403. He is commemo- 
rated as a saint in the Church of Borne on May 12. 

Epiphanius was “a man of earnest monastic piety, 
and of sincere but illiberal zeal for orthodoxy. His 
good nature allowed him to be easily used as an in- 
strument for the passions of others, and his zeal was 
not according to knowledge. He is the patriarch of 
heresy-hunters. He identified Christianity with mo- 
nastic piety and ecclesiastical orthodoxy, and consid- 
ered it the great mission of his life to pursue the hydra 
of heresy into all its hiding-places. His learning was 
extensive, but ill digested. He understood five lan- 
guages — Hebrew, Syriac, Egyptian, Greek, and a little 
Latin. Jerome, who knew but three languages, though 
he knew these far better than Epiphanius, calls him ttev- 
rdy/V(u<T< 7 oc, the five-tongued ; and Rufinus reproach- 
fully says of him that he considered it his sacred duty 
to slander the great Origen in all languages and na- 
tions. He was lacking in knowledge of the world and 
of men, in sound judgment, and in critical discern- 
ment. He was possessed of a boundless credulity, 
now almost proverbial, causing innumerable errors and 
contradictions in his writings. His style is entirely 
destitute of beauty or elegance; still. Ills works are of 
considerable value as a storehouse of the history of an- 
cient heresies and of patristic polemics” (Schaff, His- 
tory of the Christian Church , iii, § 169). Scaliger calls 
Epiphanius an ignorant man, who committed the great- 
, est blunders, told the greatest falsehoods, and knew 
, next to nothing about either Hebrew or Greek. 

Hook {Eccles. Biography , iv, 3) cites Epiphanius 
, as one of the writers to whom we can refer for proof 
of the errors of modern Romanism, and for justification 
of the Reformation. For example, against invocation 
of saints, “Neither Elias (he says), nor John, nor 
Theela, nor any of the saints is to be worshipped. For 
that ancient error shall not prevail with us, that we 
should forsake the living God and worship the things 
that arc made by him. For they worshipped and 
served the creature above the Creator, and became 
fools. For if he will not permit angels to be worship- 
ped, how much more would he not have her who was 
born of Anna? Let Mary, therefore, be bad in honor, 
but let the Lord be worshipped.” Again he observes 
“that the creature cannot be worshipped without in- 
juring the true faith, and falling back to the errors of 
the ancient pagans, who forsook the worship of the true 
God to adore the creature; or without incurring the 
malediction spoken of by St. Paul — they worshipped 
and served the creature more than the Creator, who is 
blessed forever; therefore God gave them up to vile 
affections.” “ Scd neque Ilelias, neque Joannes — ne- 
i que quisquam sanctorum adoratur,” etc. {liar. 79 and 
62). As decisive is his testimony against the doctrine 
of a purgatorial state. “ In the age to come (lie says) 
i there is no advantage of fasting, no call to repentance, 


EPIPHANIUS 


261 


EPIPHANY 


no display of charity; none are admitted after their 
departure hence, nor can we then correct what was be- 
fore amiss. There Lazarus goeth not to Dives, nor 
Dives to Lazarus; the garners arc sealed, the combat 
finished, the crowns distributed. Those who have not 
yet encountered have no more opportunity, and those 
who have conquered are not cast out. All is finish- 
ed after we have departed hence” {Hour. 59). 

The extant writings of Epiphanius are the follow- 
ing, in the order in which they are given in the edition 
of his works by Petavius (Paris, 16*22; Leipzig, 1682; 
and in Migne, Patrologia Grcecu , vols. xli, xlii, xliii) : 

1. lT«i'«pioi', Panarium (■; medicine-chest ), a treatise 
against heresies. It was written at the request of two 
monks, named Paul and Acacius, belonging to a mon- 
astery near Berea, in Lower Syria. Prefixed to the 
work is a letter to these monks, which serves as a pref- 
ace. The whole work is divided into three books, 
which are subdivided into seven tomes or sections. 
The first book contains three of these subdivisions, 
and each of the others two. The whole includes an 
account of eighty heresies, twenty of which were be- 
fore Christ : 1, the Barbarians, from Adam to Noah ; 
2, the Scythians, from Nimrod to Terah ; 3, the Hel- 
lenists, including all who paid divine honors to the 
creature, including idolatry proper, and also the philo- 
sophical arts of Stoies, Platonists, Pythagoreans, Epi- 
cureans ; 4, the Samaritanism, arising from a mixture 
of Hellenism and Judaism, and including four sects; 
5, the Judaeans (Judaism), including the seven sects of 
Saddueees, Scribes, Pharisees, Hemerobaptists, Naza- 
renes, Essenes, and Ilerodians. Of Christian heresies 
he names the Simonians (followers of Simon Magus), 
the Basilidians, and other Gnostic sects. With the 
sixty-fourth heresy he begins his account of the here- 
sies of his own age, Origenism, Arianism. A critical 
work of great ability on the information given by Epi- 
phanius has been published by Lipsius, Zur Quellen- 
kritik des Epiphanius. It limits itself to heresies 13 
to 57, which are mostly Gnostic systems. Lipsius 
shows that Epiphanius, Philaster, and Pseudo-Tertul- 
lian made use of the same source, and that this source 
was the work of Hippolytus against 52 heresies called 
ouvraypa, which was still known to Photius. 

2. ’Ayfcupwrdf, Aneoratus (anchored), i. q. anchor or 
defence of the faith, especially of the doctrine of the 
Trinity; so called “because,” says Epiphanius, “ I 
have collected, according to my slender abilities, all 
those passages of Scripture which are calculated to es- 
tablish our faith ; that this book may, like the anchor 
of a ship , establish believers in the orthodox faith, in 
the midst of the agitations and tempests of heresy.” 

3. Anacephaheosis (Migne, xlii, 833), whieh is a sum- 
mary or abridgment of the Panarium, the order of 
topics being somewhat varied. 

4. Ilfpt pirpiov Kai ffraOpdiv, De Mensuris et Pon- 
deribus (of measures and weights ), in which he gives an 
account of the weights and measures used in Scrip- 
ture, a book still useful for Biblical archaeology. 

5. IDpt ribv dudwa \i9iov , de xii genimis quae 
erant in veste Aaronis (on the 12 gems which were in 
Aaron's breast-plate ). 

A Commentary on the Song of Songs , under the name 
of Epiphanius, was published by Foggini, in a Latin 
version (Home, 1750, 4to ; and the same was publish- 
ed [in Greek and Latin], Home, 1772, 4to), by Giaeo- 
mellus, who attributes it to Philo Carpasius. See 
Philo. 

The complete editions of Epiphanius (by Petavius 
and Migne) have been named above. There is a new 
edition by Dindorf (Leips. 5 vols. 8vo, 1859-1863). 
The Panarion is given in vols. ii, iii, of Odder, Corpus 
Hwresiologicum (Berlin, 1859-1862, 5 vols. 8vo). There 
is a German translation of portions of Epiphanius, with 
notes, by Rosier (1778, 8vo). His account of the Ari- 
an and Mcletian heresies was translated into English 
by Whiston, in his Collection of Ancient Monuments on 


the Trinity (Lond. 1713, 8vo). A separate life of Epi- 
phanius was published by Gervaisc (Paris, 1738, 4to). 

See Sozomen, Hist. Eccl. vi, 32 ; viii, 15; Socrates, 
Hist. Eccl. vi, 10, 12, 14 ; Dupin, Eccles. Writers , ii, 
234; the account of the Bollandists, in Migne, Patrol . 
Gi'cec. xli; Oudin,,Zte Script. Eccles. i, 527; Ceillier, 
Auteurs Sacres (Paris, 1860), vol. vi, ch. xv; Cave, 
Hist. Litt. (Geuev. 1720), i, 147 ; Fabricius, Bibliotheca 
Gneca , ed. Harles, viii, 255 sq. ; Lardner, Works, iv, 
185 sq. ; Clarke, Succession of Sacred Literature, i, 324; 
Neandcr, Church Histoi'y (Torrey’s), ii, 680, 697 ; S chaff, 
Ch. History , vol. iii, § 169 ; Hoffmann, Bibliog. Lexikon , 
ii, 25 sq. 

Epiphanius, St., bishop of Pavia, was born in 
that city, of a noble family, in 439 (according to others 
438). lie received an education for the priesthood 
under the speeial superintendence of St. Crispin, bishop 
of Pavia. He was consecrated subdeaeon in 456, dea- 
con in 458, and on the death of Crispin in 466, he was 
unanimously chosen bishop by the clergy and people. 
He had long been noted for bis rigid asceticism, and 
after his election bis rigor greatly increased, lie took 
only one meal a day, abstained altogether from wine 
and meat, never used a bath, and was present at di- 
vine service with feet locked together. At that time 
the West Roman empire was falling to pieces, and a 
prey to the incursions of northern tribes. During 
these disturbances, bishop Epiphanius seems to have 
gained to a high degree the esteem and the confidence 
of all the rulers, lie mediated a peace between em- 
peror Anthemus and his son-in-law Eicimer. In 474 
lie was sent by the emperor Nepos as envoy to Eurich, 
king of the Visigoths. In 476 king Odoaeer con- 
quered Pavia, and gave the city up to plundering, on 
which occasion the cathedral was destroyed. Epipha- 
nins rebuilt the cathedral, and prevailed upon the 
king to exempt the city for five years from all taxes. 
During the war between Odoaeer and Thcodoric, king 
of the Ostrogoths, lie gained the confidence of both 
parties. Theodorie, who in 493 became the master of 
Italy, granted, upon the intercession of Epiphanius, an 
amnesty to all who had borne arms against him. The- 
odorie then (494) sent Epiphanius on a mission to Gun- 
dobald, king of the Burgundians, to treat with him for 
the release of the Ligurian prisoners, who were to re- 
people the desolated districts of Italy. The mission 
was successful, and Theodorie subsequently remitted 
to the Ligurians two thirds of the taxes. Epiphanius 
died in Pavia, Jan. 21, 497. In 962 the emperor Otho 
had his relies transported to llildesheim, in Germany. 
The Church of Rome commemorates him as a saint on 
Jan. 21. — Butler, Lives of Saints, i, 191; Acta Sancto- 
rum, Jail. 21 (biography by his successor Ennodius); 
Neander, Light in Dark Places (New York, 1853), p. 97 ; 
Iloefer, Nouv. Biogr. Gene rale, xvi, 161 ; Herzog, lleal- 
Encyklop. iii, 100. (A. J. S.) 

Epiphanius, Sciiolasticus, an ecclesiastical writ- 
er of the Latin Church, lived at the beginning of the 
Gtli century, and is supposed to have been an Italian 
by birth. At the request of his friend Cassiodorus 
(q. v.) he translated from Greek into Latin the works 
of the Church historians Socrates, Sozomen, and Tlieo- 
doret. Cassiodorus revised the translation, and made 
out of the three works one, which, under the name of 
Historia Tripartita , remained throughout the Middle 
Ages one of the standard historical works. Likewise, 
at the request of Cassiodorus, Epiphanius translated 
several other works, as the Codex Encyclicus (a collec- 
tion of synodal epistles to the emperor Leo I in de- 
fence of the Council of Chaleedon) ; a Commentary of 
bishop Epiphanius of Cyprus on the Song of Songs ; a 
Commentary of Didymus on the Proverbs and the cath- 
olic epistles. — Cave, Hist. Lit . (Genev. 1720), i, 320; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. Ginerale, xvi, 162 ; Herzog, ReaL 
Encyklop. iv, 100. 

Epiphany (iirapaveia, rd i-jrapavia, the “ mani- 


EPIPHI 


262 EPISCOPACY 


fcstation” of Christ), one of the oldest festivals of 
the Christian Church, and mentioned as such by Cle- 
ment of Alexandria (Xtromat. i, 1). Until the time of 
Chrysostom, it opened in the Eastern Church the cycle 
of festivals. It denoted at first the baptism of Christ, 
which, as Chrysostom himself remarks, was, in a high- 
er sense than his birth, his real manifestation to men. 
A special festival of the birth of Christ arose later than 
the festival of Epiphany, and up to that time the com- 
memoration of the birth of Christ was included in that 
of Epiphany. According to the testimony of Clement 
of Alexandria, it was at first celebrated at Alexandria 
bv the Basilidians, but soon it was introduced into the 
orthodox Church also. Neander thinks that it did not 
originate with the Basilidians, but that they derived 
it from Jewish Christians in Syria and Palestine. The 
first trace of the festival in the Latin Church is found 
in 3G0, when, as Amniianus Marcellinus (xxi, 2) men- 
tions, the emperor Julian took part in a celebration of 
the festival at Vienne. In the Western Church it came 
early to denote the manifestation of Christ to the Gen- 
tiles, with especial reference to his appearance to the 
wise men of the East, who came to adore him and bring 
him presents (Matt, ii, 1-12). Gradually the commem- 
oration of other events in the life of Christ was con- 
nected with the celebration of Epiphany, as the work- 
ing of the first miracle at the wedding at Cana (lienee 
it was called “ bethphania,” manifestation in a house), 
and the feeding of live thousand persons (hence the 
name “ phagiphania”). Prominent, however, in the 
Latin Church remained the celebration of Epiphany as 
the manifestation of Christ to the wise men. The tra- 
dition of the Church venerated the wise men as the 
‘‘Three Holy Kings,” and the festival itself was com- 
monly called in the Church the festival of the Three 
Kings {festum trium regnm, festum Mugorum, festum 
stell(p). Like other high festivals, Epiphany was cele- 
brated by a vigil, by the preaching of homilies, by the 
reception of the Lord’s Supper, and by granting liber- 
ty to slaves. During the Middle Ages a dramatic rep- 
resentation of the oblation of the wise men was incor- 
porated into divine worship, and in some countries 
these performances have maintained themselves until 
the present century. Peculiar popular amusements 
also connected themselves with the celebration of the 
day in Homan Catholic countries, and partly exist 
even at the present day. In the city of Borne there is 
on the festival of Epiphany a great exhibition in the 
College of the Propaganda, young men from all coun- 
tries making addresses in their native languages, in 
order thus to represent the appearance of Christ to all 
nations. In some Western churches, especially in Af- 
rica, Epiphany was used as a day of baptism ( dieshtmi - 
num)' but Pope Leo I was a decided opponent of this 
custom, calling it irrationabilem novitatem (an unrea- 
sonable novelty). Among the Franks the custom was 
also known, and Charlemagne mentions it in an epis- 
tle to the bishop Garibald, but without approving it. 
Previously Gregory II, in 72G, had forbidden to bap- 
tize except on Easter and Pentecost. In the Greek 
Church it was customary to consecrate t he water on 
this day, and the custom still prevails in Russia. — 
Bingham, Grig. Eccl. bk. xx, chap, iv ; Herzog, Heal- 
Encyklopiidie , iv, 0-1 ; Wctzer u. Wolte, Kirchen-Lex. iii, 
283 ; Augusti, JJandfmch d. christl. A rchvologie , i, 528 ; 
ii, 47G; Binterim, Jknhricrdigkeiten <br christl.-kath . 
K. vol. v. Sec TiiEoriiANY. (A. J. S.) 

Epiphi (’E7Ti0/, 3 Macc. vi, 38), the name of the 
eleventh month of the Egyptian Vague year, and the 
Alexandrian or Egyptian Julian year: Copt, epep ; 
Arab. apib. Its beginning corresponds with the 25th 
of June in the Julian calendar (bleler, llnndh.d.Chro - 
nol. i, 08, 144). In ancient Egyptian it is called “ the 
third month [of] the season of the waters.” 8ec 
Egypt. The name EpiphMs derived frpm that of the 
goddess of the month, Apajht (Lopsius, Chron. d. sEg. 
i, 141). The supposed derivation of the Hebrew month- 


name A bib from Epiphi is discussed in other articles. 
See Month. 

Episcopacy (fc7rtoxo7roc, bishop; i7noK07rsh» y to 
superintend ), the government of bishops in the Church, 
whether as an order superior to presbyters or not. 
For the classes, duties, insignia, elections, and juris- 
diction of bishops, see Bishop. For the controversy 
as to the exclusive validity of Episcopal orders, see 
Succession, Apostolical. We give, in this article, 
a brief statement of the origin of Episcopacy, and of 
the theories of Episcopac}' maintained in the promi- 
nent Episcopal churches of Christendom. 

1. Origin of Episcopacy . — The high Episcopal writ- 
ers, both of the Church of Rome and the Church of 
England, maintain that the order of bishops takes the 
place of the apostles in the Christian Church hv direct 
divine appointment. Their view has been stated as 
follows: “While our Lord remained upon eartli lie 
acted as the immediate governor of his Church. Hav- 
ing himself called the apostles, he kept them constant- 
ly about his person, except at one time, when lie sent 
them forth upon a short progress through the cities of 
Judea, and gave them particular directions how they 
should conduct themselves. The seventy disciples 
whom he sent forth at another time are never men- 
tioned again in the New Testament. But the apostles 
received from him many intimations that their office 
was to continue after his departure; and as one great 
object of his ministry was to qualify them for the ex- 
ecution of this office, so, in the interval between bis 
resurrection and bis ascension, be explained to them 
the duties of it, and he invested them with the author- 
ity which the discharge of those duties implied (Matt. 

1 xxviii, 19, £0; John xx, 21, 22). Soon after the as- 
cension of Jesus, his apostles received those extraordi- 
nary gifts of which his promise had given them assur- 
ance, and immediately they began to execute their 
commission as t he rulers of that society which was 
gathered by their preaching. In Acts vi we find the 
apostles ordering the Christians at Jerusalem to ‘look 
| out seven men of honest report,’ who might take 
charge of the daily ministrations to the poor, and to 
bring the men so chosen to them, that ‘we,’ said the 
apostles, ‘may appoint them over this business.’ The 
men accordingly were ‘set before the apo>tles, and 
when they had prayed they laid their hands on them.’ 
Here are the apostles ordaining deacons. Afterward 
we lind St. Paul, in his progress through Asia Minor, 
ordaining in every church elders, TTpiofivTi^ovc (Acts 
xiv, 23). The men thus ordained by St. Paul appear, 
from the Aets and the Epistles, to have been teachers, 
pastors, overseers, of the flock of Christ; and to Tim- 
othy, who was a minister of the Word, the apostle 
I speaks of ‘the gift which is in thee by the putting on 
' of my hands’ (2 Tim. i, G). Over the persons to whom 
tie thus conveyed the otlice of teaching lie exercised 
jurisdiction, for he sent to Ephesus to the elders of 
the church to meet him at Miletus; and there, in a 
long discourse, gave them a solemn charge (Acts xx, 
17-35), and to Timothy and Titus he writes epistles 
in the style of a superior. He not only directs Timo- 
thy, whom he had besought to abide at Ephesus, how 
to behave himself in the house of God as a minister, 
but he sets him over other ministers, lie empowers 
him to ordain men to the work of the ministry (2 Tim. 
ii, 2). lie gives him directions about the ordination 
of bishops and deacons ; lie places both these kinds of 
office-bearers in Ephesus under his inspection, instruct- 
ing him in what manner to receive an accusation 
against an elder who labored in word and doctrine; 
and he commands him to charge sonic that they teach 
no other doctrine but the form of sound words. In 
like manner lie describes to Titus the qualifications of 
a bishop or elder, making him t tic judge how far any 
person in (’rote was possessed of these qualifications ; 
he gives him authority over all orders of Christians 
there ; and he empowers him to reject heretics. Here, 


EPISCOPACY 


263 


EPISCOPACY 


then, is that apostle with whose actions we are best 
acquainted seemingly aware that there would be con- 
tinual occasion in the Christian Church for the exer- 
cise of that authority over pastors and teachers which 
the apostles had derived from the Lord Jesus ; and by 
these two examples of a delegation, given during his 
lifetime, preparing the world for beholding that au- 
thority exercised by the successors of the apostles in 
all ages. Accordingly, the earliest Christian writers 
tell us that the apostles, to prevent contention, ap- 
pointed bishops and deacons ; giving orders, too, that 
upon their death other approved men should succeed 
in their ministry. We are told that the other apos- 
tles constituted their first-fruits, that is, their first dis- 
ciples, after they had proved them by the Spirit, bish- 
ops and deacons of those who were to believe ; and 
that the apostle John, who survived the rest, after re- 
turning from Patmos, the place of his banishment, 
went about the neighboring nations, ordaining bish- 
ops, establishing whole churches, and setting apart 
particular persons for the ministry, as they were point- 
ed out to him by the Spirit” (Watson, s. v.). In sub- 
stance, the high Episcopalians claim that “after the 
ascension of our Lord, and before the death of the in- 
spired apostles, there were in the Church three orders 
in the ministry— apostles, presbyters, and deacons; 
and these three orders have continued ever since. The 
name apostle, out of respect to the memory of the in- 
spired apostles, was changed to bishop, while the office 
remained the same.” 

The view above given, however satisfactory it may 
be to high Episcopalians, is not adopted by the more 
moderate writers on that side, nor b} 7 - other denomina- 
tions of Christians. The following brief account, from 
Neander's Introduction to Coleman’s Apostolical and 
Primitive Church , is both lucid and impartial. “The 
earliest constitution of the Church was modelled, for 
the most part, after that religious community with 
which it stood in closest connection, and to which it 
was most assimilated — ‘he Jewish synagogue. This, 
however, was so modified as to conform to the nature 
of the Christian community, and to the new and pecu- 
liar spirit with which it was animated. Like the syn- 
agogue, the Church was governed by an associated 
body of men appointed for this purpose. The name 
of presbyters , which was appropriated to this body, 
was derived from the Jewish synagogue. lint in the 
Gentile churches formed by the apostle Paul they 
took the name of tV 'igrottol, bi hops, a term more sig- 
nificant of their office in the language generally spo- 
ken by the members of these churches. The name 
presbyter denoted the dignity of their office, while bish- 
op, on the other hand, was expressive rather of the 
nature of their office, Ittktko— tiv ti)v to take 

the oversight of the Church. Most certainly no other 
distinction originally existed between them. But, in 
process of time, some one, in the ordinary course of 
events, would gradually obtain the pre-eminence over 
liis colleagues, and, by reason of that peculiar over- 
sight which he exercised over the whole community, 
might come to be designated by the name tViwoTmc, 
bishop , which was originally applied to them all indis- 
criminately. The constant tumults, from within and 
from without, which agitated the Church in the time 
of the apostles, may have given to such a one oppor- 
tunity to exercise his influence the more efficiently; 
so that, at such a time, the controlling influence of one 
in this capacity may have been very salutary to the 
Church. This change in the relation of the presbv- 
ters to each other was not the same in all the churches, 
but varied according to their different circumstances. 
It may have been as early as the latter part of the life 
of John, when he was sole survivor of the other apos- 
tles, that one, as president of this body of presbyters, 
was distinguished by the name of tirifTKOTTOQ, bishop. 
There is, however, no evidence that the apostle him- 
self introduced this change, much less that he author- 


ized it as a perpetual ordinance for the future. Such 
an ordinance is in direct opposition to the spirit of that 
apostle. This change in the mode of administering 
the government of the Church, resulting from peculiar 
circumstances, may have been introduced as a salu- 
tary expedient, without implying any departure from 
the purity of the Christian spirit. When, however, 
the doctrine is, as it gradually gained currency in the 
third century — that the bishops are by divine right the 
head of the Church, and invested with the government 
of the same ; that they are the successors of the apos- 
tles, and by this succession inherit apostolical author- 
ity ; that they are the medium through which, in con- 
sequence of that ordination which they have received 
merely in an outward manner, the Holy Ghost, in all 
time to come, must be transmitted to the Church — 
when this becomes the doctrine of the Church, we cer- 
tainly must perceive in these assumptions a great cor- 
ruption of the Christian system. It is a carnal per- 
version of the true idea of the Christian Church. It 
is a falling back into the spirit of the Jewish religion. 
Instead of the Christian idea of a church, based on in- 
ward principles of communion, and extending itself by 
means of these, it presents us with the image of one 
like that under the Old Testament, resting in outward 
ordinances, and seeking to promote the propagation of 
the kingdom of God by external rites. This entire 
perversion of the original view of the Christian Church 
was itself the origin of the whole system of the Roman 
Catholic religion, the germ from which sprung the 
popery of the Dark Ages. We hold, indeed, no con- 
troversy with that class of Episcopalians who adhere 
to the Episcopal system as well adapted, in their opin- 
ion, to the exigencies of their Church. But the doc- 
trine of the absolute necessity of the Episcopal as the 
only valid form of government, and of the Episcopal 
succession of bishops above mentioned in order to a 
participation in the gifts of the Spirit, we must regard 
as something foreign to the true idea of the Christian 
Church. It is in direct conflict with the spirit of Pro- 
testantism, and is the origin, not of the true Catholi- 
cism of the apostle, but of that of the Romish Church. 
When, therefore, Episcopalians disown, as essentially 
deficient in their ecclesiastical organization, other 
Protestant churches which evidently have the spirit 
of Christ, it only remains for us to protest, in the 
strongest terms, against their setting up such a stand- 
ard for tlie Christian Church. Far be it from us, who 
began with Luther in the Spirit, that we should now 
desire to be made perfect by the flesh (Gal. iii, 8).” 

Bunsen gives the following view of the original char- 
acter of the Episcopacy: “The episcopate was origin- 
ally the independent position of a city clergyman, 
presiding over the congregation, with the neighboring 
villages, having a body of elders attached to him. 
Where such a council can be formed there is a com- 
plete Church — a bishopric. The elders are teachers 
and administrators. If an individual happen to be 
engaged in either of these offices mose exclusively 
than the other, it makes no real alteration in his posi- 
tion, for the presbyters of the ancient Church filled 
both situations. Their office was literally an office, 
not. a rank. The country clergymen were most prob- 
ably members of the ecclesiastical council of the city 
church, as the bishops of the country towns certainly 
were members of the metropolitan presbytery” (Hip- 
poly tus and his Age, iii, 2I6\ 

Professor 1L I). Hitchcock (American Presbyterian 
Review, Jan. 1867) gives a luminous sketch of the ori- 
gin and growth of Episcopacy. Admitting that the 
Episcopal system was in full force in the Church be- 
fore the end of the third century, he shows clearly, 
nevertheless, that it was not of apostolical origin, but 
a later growth of ecclesiastical development, as fol- 
lows : (1.) The best Episcopal writers now admit that 
the Episcopal system is not to be found in the N. T. 
(2.) The earliest witness, outside of the N. T., is Clem- 


EPISCOPACY 


264 


EPISCOPACY 


ent of Rome (about A.D. 100), in whose Epistle to the 
Corinthians the words bishop and presbyter are used 
interchangeably. I)r. Hitchcock analyzes the letters 
of Ignatius (f 115?) both in the Syriac version of his 
Epistles and in the shorter Greek version, giving ev- 
ery passage in which Episcopacy occurs. His con- 
clusions are that, (1.) Admitting the substantial integ- | 
rity of the texts, the strong infusion of Episcopacy in 
them “is best explained by supposing it to be a new 
thing, which Ignatius was doing, always and every- 
where, his utmost to recommend. As special pleading 
for a novelty, the Episcopal tone of the Ignatian epis- 
tles is easily understood. (2.) The Ignatian Episcopa- 
cy is not diocesan, but Congregational. Each of the 
churches addressed had its own bishop, presbyters, 
and deacons. (3.) The apostolic succession (in Igna- j 
tius) is not Episcopal, but Presbyterian. The bishop | 
is the representative of Christ, as Christ is of the Fa- 
ther ; the presbyters are representatives of the apos- 
tles, and the deacons of the precept or commandment 
of Christ. In short, the Ignatian Episcopacy, instead 
of having the appearance of a settled polity, handed 
down from the apostles, has the appearance of being 
a new and growing institution, unlike what went be- 
fore as well as what was coming after” ( Amer . Presb . 
Review, Jan. 1867, p. 145). — The next witness is Ire- 
naeus (j 202), who, according to Dr. Hitchcock, com- 
monly uses the words “bishop,” “episcopal,” “ epis- 
copate” in the Ignatian Congregational sense; while 
in certain cited passages he uses “bishop” and “pres- 
byter” interchangeably, as Clement docs. This “wa- 
vering terminology is indicative, not of apostolic tradi- 
tion, but of later genesis and growth, and that growth 
not yet completed.” — Tertullian (f 240 ?) draws the 
line distinctly between clergy and laity, and discrim- 
inates clearly between bishops, priests, and deacons. 
In Cyprian (248-258), as has been remarked above, 
Episcopacy is fully matured. (See Church, ii, 328.) 

II. Episcopacy of the Roman Catholic Church. — (1.) 
The theory of the Episcopacy according to Roman 
writers springs from the Romish doctrine of a visible 
Church. “An invisible Church” (Moliler, Symbolism , 

§ 43) “needs only an inward, purely spiritual sacrifice, 
and a general priesthood;” but the visible Church, in 
its very idea, according to the Romish view, requires 
an external sacrifice, and the consecration of especial 
priests to perform it. The priest is supposed to re- 
ceive the internal consecration from God through the 
external consecration of the Church — that is to say, he 
receives the Ilolv Ghost through the imposition of 
hands of the bishops. The stability of the visible 
Church is supposed to require, therefore, an ecclesias- 
tical ordination, originating with Christ, and per- 
petuated in uninterrupted succession ; so that, as the 
apostles were sent forth by Christ, they, in their turn, 
instituted bishops, and these have appointed their suc- 
cessors down to our days. Rut, if these bishops are | 
to form a perpetual corporation, they need a centre 
and head connecting them firmly together, and exer- 
cising jurisdiction over them, and this head is found 
in the pope. The Episcopacy, with the pope at its 
head, is revered in the Church of Rome as a divine in- 
stitution. 

(2.) We say “with the pope at its head,” for this 
point is essential to the Romish idea of an Episcopacy 
jure divino. The Roman Church has been divided on 
this question for ages. It formed one of the chief 
controversies in the Council of Trent, where many of 
the bishops earnestly endeavored to have their office 
pronounced to be of divine right apart from the pope, 
while the papal legates strenuously, but adroitly, re- 
sisted this claim, and managed to prevent its authori- 
zation by the council. The declarations of Trent on 
the subject are as follows (sess. xxiii, De Reformation?, 
ch. iv): “The sacred and holy synod declares that, 
besides the other ecclesiastical degrees, bishops, who 
have succeeded unto the place of the apostles, princi- 


pally belong to the (this) hierarchical order ; that they 
are placed, as the apostle says, by the Holy Ghost to 
rule the Church of God (Acts xx, 28) ; that they are 
superior to priests ; confer the sacrament of ordina- 
tion ; ordain the ministers of the Church, etc.” Fur- 
ther (same session, Can. vi) : “If any one shall say 
that in the Catholic Church there is not a hierarchy 
instituted by divine ordination, consisting of bishops, 
priests, and ministers, let him be anathema.” And 
also (Can. vii), “If any one shall say that bishops are 
not superior to priests, or that they have not the pow- 
er of confirming and ordaining, etc., let him be anath- 
ema.” Nothing is said here of the divine right of the 
Episcopal order. But, in fact, it is not even called an 
order at all. In chapter ii of the same session (Touch- 
iny the seven orders) we have priests, deacons, sub- 
deacons, acolytes, exorcists, readers, and door-keepers, 
but not a word about bishops. So far as order is con- 
cerned, the bishops are simply priests. The Catechism 
of the Council of Trent declares that the order of priest- 
hood, though essentially one, has different degrees of 
dignity and power — 1, simple priests ; 2, bishops ; 3, 
archbishops; 4, patriarchs; ami, 5, superior to all, the 
sovereign pontiff. The history of the stormy 22d 
session of the council throws great light upon these 
decrees. A canon was proposed concerning “the in- 
stitution of bishops,” and the Spanish prelates de- 
manded an addition to it, declaring the Episcopate to 
be of divine right. This question arose, in fact, in 
1546, and was before the council, in some shape or 
other, until 1562 (sess. xxii), when it took the precise 
form, “Are bishops superior to priests by divine right, 
or only by ecclesiastical and papal right ?” The pope 
knew that if it should be decided that the bishops held 
their power directly from God, there was no ground 
for the doctrine that they existed only through the 
pope, and feared that they would ultimately assert 
their entire independence. The dispute ended in drop- 
ping altogether the canon on the “institution of bish- 
ops,” and substituting the vague decree and canon 
above cited. 

(3.) Two theories, then, of the Episcopate exbt in 
the Roman Church : 1, the so-called Papal system, ac- 
cording to which the pope is the sole bishop by divine 
right, and all other bishops exist only through him, 
and derive their superiorit} r to presbyters solely from 
him ; 2, the Episcopal system , which asserts an inde- 
pendent divine right on the part of each bishop. The 
former is the ultramontane view, and it is now prev- 
alent throughout almost all the Roman world. The 
latter is the moderate or Gallic view. It holds that 
the bishops are the rightful governors of the Church, 
superior to presbyters by the direct appointment of 
God ; and maintains that the pope is, with regard to 
other bishops, primus inter pares, appointed for the 
sake . of keeping up the unity of the Church as a cor- 
porate body. The question, in fact, turns upon that 
of the primacy of the see of Rome, See PimiACY. 
The Episcopal theory was adopted by the Galliean 
clergy (see Gallicanis.ai), by the Janscnists (q. v.) } 
and by Hontheim (q. v.). The present tendency of 
the entire Romish Church, however, is to the ultra- 
montane theory. 

The Romish Episcopacy, as a whole, is diocesan. 
See Diocese. The clergy of the diocese are subject 
to the bishop, but his authority docs not extend beyond 
the diocese. There are, besides the diocesan bishops, 
bishops vacantes, bishops in partibus, bishops suffragan, 
etc., for which distinctions, see Bisiiors. “The di- 
vision of the Church into dioceses may be viewed as a 
natural consequence of the institution of the office of 
bishops. The authority to exercise jurisdiction, w hen 
committed to several hands, requires that some boun- 
daries be defined within which each party may employ 
his powers, otherwise disorder and confusion would en- 
sue, and the Church, instead of being benefited by the 
appointment of governors, might be exposed to the 


EPISCOPACY 


265 


EPISCOPACY 


double calamity of an overplus oftliem in one district, I 
and a total deficiency of them in another. Ilence we 
find, so early as the New-Testament history, some 
plain indications of the rise of the diocesan system in 
the cases respectively of James, bishop of Jerusalem ; 
Timothy, bishop of Ephesus ; Titus, of Crete, to whom 
may be added the angels or bishops of the seven 
churches in Asia. These -were placed in cities, and 
had jurisdiction over the churches and inferior clergy 
in those cities, and probably in the country adjacent. 
The first dioceses were formed hv planting a bishop in 
a city or considerable village, where he officiated stated- 
lv, and took the spiritual charge, not only of the city 
itself, but the suburbs, or region lying round about it, 
within the verge of its [civil] jurisdiction, which seems 
to be the plain reason of that great and visible differ- 
ence which we find in the extent of dioceses, some be- 
ing very large, others very sfnall, according as the 
civil government of each city happened to have a 
larger or lesser jurisdiction” (/look). See Bingham, 
Orig. Eccl. bk. ix, ch. ii. The bishops arc named from 
the principal city of the diocese, as Rome, Lyons, etc. 
There were bishops, not diocesan, in Ireland, until the 
12th century (see Christian Remembrancer, Jan. 1855, 
p. 215). While the Romish bishops are independent 
of each other, they are all subordinate to the pope, and 
must make regular returns to him of the state of their 
dioceses. See Bishops. 

III. (1.) The Church of England and the Protestant 
Episcopal Church in the United States hold that there 
are three orders of ministers in the Church, bishops, 
priests, and deacons, and that bishops arc the success- 
ors of the apostles, and superior to priests and deacons. 
The Uigh-Church theory maintains the divine right of 
Episcopac}”, and its absolute necessity to the existence 
of the Church ; the Low-Church party deny that there 
is any positive command upon the subject in Scrip- 
ture, or that there is anything in the standards of 
the Church of England which makes episcopacy to 
be of the essence of a church. The High-Churchmen 
maintain, and the Low-Churclimen reject the theory of 
the “ exclusive validity of episcopal orders.” See Suc- 
cession. Iii the preface to the ordinal of the Church 
of England, and of the Protestant Episcopal Church in 
the United States, it is declared as ‘‘evident unto all 
men diligently reading holy Scripture and ancient au- 
thors, that from the apostles’ time there have been 
these orders of ministers in Christ’s Church, bishops, 
priests, and deacons.” The doctrine of those churches 
in general is, “ That there is in the Church a superior 
order of office-bearers, the successors of the apostles, 
who possess in their own persons the right of ordina- 
tion and jurisdiction, and who are called t7rimco7ro’, as [ 
being the overseers not only of the people, hut also of ' 
the clergy ; and an inferior order of ministers, called 
presbyters, the literal translation of the word 7rp{rrj3v- 
repot, which is rendered in our English Bibles elders, 
persons who receive from the ordination of the bishop 
power to preach and to administer the sacraments, who 
are set over the people, but are themselves under the 
government of the bishop, and have no right to convej^ ! 
to others the sacred office which he gives them au- 
thority to exercise under him.” According to a phrase 
used by Charles I, who was by no means an unlearned 
defender of that form of government to which he was 
a martyr, the presbyters are episeopi gregis [bishops of 
the flock], but the bishops are episeopi gregis et pas- 
torum [bishops of the flock and of the pastors.] “ The 
liberal writers, however, in the Church of England do 
not contend that this form of government is made so 
binding in the Church as not to he departed from and 
varied according to circumstances. It cannot be proved, 
says Dr. Paley, that any form of church government 
was laid down in the Christian as it had been in the 
Jewish Scriptures, with a view of fixing a constitution 
for succeeding ages. The truth seems to have been, 
that such offices were at first erected in the Christian 


Church as the good order, the instruction, and the ex- 
I igencies of the society at that time required, without 
I any intention, at least without any declared design of 
regulating the appointment, authority, or the distinc- 
tion of Christian ministers under future circumstances.” 
To the same effect, also, Bishop Tomline says, “It is 
not contended that the bishops, priests, and deacons 
of England are at present precisely the same that 
bishops, presbyters, and deacons were in Asia Minor 
seventeen hundred years ago. We only maintain that 
there have always been bishops, priests, and deacons 
in the Christian Church since the days of the apostles, 
with different powers and functions, it is allowed, in 
different countries and at different periods ; but the 
general principles and duties which have respectively 
characterized these clerical orders have been essential- 
ly the same at all times and in all places, and the va- 
riations which they have undergone have only been 
such as have ever belonged to all persons in public 
situations, whether civil or ecclesiastical, and which 
are, indeed, indispensable from every thing in which 
mankind arc concerned in this transitory and fleeting 
world. I have thought it right to take this general 
view of the ministerial office, and to make these obser- 
vations upon the clerical orders subsisting in this king- 
dom, for the purpose of pointing out the foundation 
and principles of Church authority, and of showing 
that our ecclesiastical establishment is as nearly con- 
formable as change of circumstances will permit to 
the practice of the primitive Church. But, though I 
flatter myself that I have proved episcopacy to he an 
apostolical institution, yet I readily acknowledge that 
there is no precept in the New Testament which 
commands that every church should be governed by 
bishops. No church can exist without some gov- 
ernment; but, though there must he rules and orders 
for the proper discharge of the offices of public wor- 
ship, though there must be fixed regulations concern- 
ing the appointment of ministers, and though a subor- 
dination among them is expedient in the highest de- 
gree, yet it does not follow that all these things must 
be precisely the same in every Christian country ; 
they may vary with the other varying circumstances 
of human society, with the extent of a country, the 
manners of its inhabitants, the nature of its civil gov- 
ernment, and many other peculiarities which might be 
specified. As it has not pleased our Almighty Father 
to prescribe any particular form of civil government 
for the security of temporal comforts to his rational 
creatures, so neither has he prescribed any particular 
form of ecclesiastical polity as absolutely necessary to 
the attainment of eternal happiness. But he has, in 
the most explicit terms, enjoined obedience to all gov- 
ernors, whether civil or ecclesiastical, and whatever 
may he their denomination, as essential to the charac- 
ter of a true Christian. Thus the Gospel only lays 
down general principles, and leaves the application of 
them to men as free agents.” Bishop Tomline, how- 
ever, and the Iligh-Epi&copalians of the Church ol Eng- 
land, contend for an original distinction in flic office 
and order of bishops and presbyters; which notion is 
contradicted by the founder of t lie Church of England, 
Archbishop Cramner, who says, “ The bishops and 
priests were at one time, and were not two things ; but 
both one office in the beginning of Christ s religion” 
( Watson). On the inconsistency of the position of 
that portion of the so-called evangelical Episcopalians 
which holds that bishops are really successors of the 
apostles, see an admirable article in the Princeton Re - 
vine, January, 1856 (art. i). 

(2.) The episcopacy of the Church of England is 
d'oeesan, like that of the Church of Rome, and the 
bishops are named from the chief city of the diocese 
(London, York, etc.). In the Protestant Episcopal 
churches the dioceses are generally coterminous with 
the States of the Union, and the bishops are named ac- 
cordingly (Delaware, Connecticut, etc.). The larger 


EUISCOPACT 


EPISCOPACY 


2CG 


states are in some instances subdivided. “In the 
American Cliurch tlie bisliops are all of equal authori- 
ty, each ruling his own diocese independently of the 
control of an ecclesiastical superior. No bishop is 
amenable to any central authority.” There are no 
archbishops ; but assistant and missionary bisliops arc 
authorized. See Bishops, and Protestant Episco- 
pal Onmm. 

IV. Met ho list Episcopal Church . — (1.) The episco- 
pacy of the Methodist Episcopal Church is believed to 
be nearer to the apostolic model than that of the 
churches which maintain the apostolical succession. 
Its simple idea is, that certain elders are chosen from 
the body of the presbyters to superintend the Church, 
and are called bishops or superintendents , both terms be- 
ing used in the Methodist ritual. The bishops, in vir- 
tue of their functions, naturally stand above their 
brethren. With regard to the ordinary functions of 
the ministry, they do not differ from other ministers; 
but extraordinary functions, such as ordaining, pre- 
siding in assemblies, and the like, are devolved upon 
them by their brethren, and exercised by them exclu- 
sively and of right — right not divine, but ecclesiastical 
and human, founded upon the will of the body of pas- 
tors. The primitive principle that bishops and pres- 
byters are of equal rank in the N. T. is fully recog- 
nised: nor are bishops regarded as the successors of 
the apostles. “As soon as a church has more than 
one pastor, it is natural and necessary that one should 
preside over the rest,” and that “certain functions 
should be reserved to him” (Bungener, Council of 
Trent, I k. v, ch. ii). it is not contrary to the essence 
of the ministry, l ut rather in harmony with its mis- 
sionary and pastoral aims, that the presidency thus 
arising should last for life, and that he who exercises 
it should govern the body of pastors according to laws 
adopted and approved by them, should appoint the 
ministers to their work, and should exercise all the 
functions necessary to au effective and vigorous super- 
intendence ; and if the superintendent or bishop is ap- 
pointed for life, it is quite in accoulance with scrip- 
tural usage that he should be set apart for his work by 
“ the laying on of hands.” Accordingly, the bishops 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church are elected by the 
General Conference (q. v.) for life, and are ordained 
according to a special form, modi tied from the ordinal 
of the Church of England (Discipline, pt. ii, chap. iii). 
The limits of their authority are clearly set forth in the 
Book of Discipline (pt. i, ch. iv). A bishop is amena- 
ble, not to the beneh of bishops, but to the General 
Conference, which may even “expel him for improper 
conduct if they deem it necessary” (Discipline, pt. i, 
ch. ix). “In the American branch of the Methodist 
Church, episcopacy exists not only in the form in 
which it does in every English circuit — which is the 
old parochial episcopacy — but by formally committing 
general oversight into the hands of bishops, who have 
no other charge. These claim no superiority in order 
over their brethren, but exercise well-defined powers, 
simply as an arrangement of the Church for its own 
welfare — an arrangement which lias worked admira- 
bly; and it may he questioned whether any form of 
church government in the world has more of the ele- 
ments of power and permanence than this, which cx- 
pros>es Wesley's own idea of a fully organized church” 
(Land. Quarterly Review, duly, 1850, p. 530). 

It has been objected to the Methodist episcopacy 
that, while the theory of the Church admits but two 
orders in the ministry, the separate ordination of bish- 
ops really implies three. But the objection is ground- 
less. (See above, II, 2.) In fact, the number of “or- 
ders" has always been an open question, even in the 
Homan Church; the Council of Trent did not settle 
it (compare Canons of Trent , sess. xiii, can. 2). The 
“balance of authority, ovcir from t he earliest ages, 
certainly inclines to consider the episcopate, as ail or- 
der, to be identical with the priesthood, not the com- 


pletion of it” (Maskell, Monument a Ritualia, iii, lxxxi £ 
So also Palmer: “ If we understand the werd order in 
the sense of degree , we may say that there are three 
orders of the Christian ministry ; but if we distribute 
it according to its nature , there are i lit two, viz. bish- 
ops (or presbyters) and deacons” ( On the Chunk , pt. 

vi, § 1). 

Some Methodist writers have maintained that three 
orders, bishops, priests, and deacons, belong to the con- 
stitution of tlie Church as laid down in Scripture, and 
therefore that the episcopal office is not simply an ec- 
clesiastical one. See especially Grayson, The Church 
and the Ministry (Louisville, 1853, 8vo). 

(2.) The Methodist episcopacy is not diocesan , like 
that of the churches of Borne and England, but general 
and itinerant. Instead of being confined to a city or 
district, the bishop is required to “travel at large;” 
and if “he cease from travelling without the consent 
of the General Conference, he cannot thereafter ex- 
ercise the episcopal office.” See Conferences, and 
I Methodist Episcopal Church. While, under the 
Methodist system, the bishops do not claim to he “ suc- 
I cessors of the apostles,” or to be endowed, either as in- 
dividuals or collectively, with superior authority to 
teach or to govern, apart from power given them by 
the body of presbyters as represented in the General 
Conference, it yet appears to be clear that, as to their 
; functions and jurisdiction, they approach nearer to the 
apostolical idea than bishops under the diccesan sj’s- 
tein. Dollinger (perhaps the ablest of living Roman- 
ist writers), in maintaining that “bishops are the suc- 
cessors of the apostles, and have received their author- 
ity,” is yet forced to admit that, under the Roman 
episcopal system, the authority of bishops is strictly 
limited to a particular diocese, while the jurisdiction 
of tlie apostles “extended to every part of the earth, 
wheresoever their universal vocation to conveit the 
nations and to found churches conducted them” (CAt/rcA 
History , i, 22G, Bond. 1840). Under the Methodist sys- 
tem, a bishop may preside in a Conference and ordain 
presbyters in March in Xew Yoik, in May in Illinois, 
in July in California, in October in China, and in De- 
cember in Germany. 

(3.) The Methodist episcopacy was instituted by 
Wesley. Dining the Revolutionary War in America, 
most of the clergy of the Church of England left the 
country. Before the war, the American preachers, 
like those in England, had been forbidden to adminis- 
ter the sacraments : the people were sent to the clergy 
of the Church of England for baptism and the Lord's 
Supper. After the war the societies were, without the 
onlinances, and were likely to be disbanded in conse- 
quence. After duly considering the exigency, Mr. 
Wesley (who had previously in vain urged the bishop 
of London to ordain preachers for America) deter- 
mined to organize the American Methodists into an 
independent Episcopal Church, and ordained tlie Rev. 
Thomas Coke, LL.D., as superintendent, and Richard 
Whatcoat and Thomas Vasev as elders. In 1784 the 
Rev. Francis As bury was ordained by Dr. Coke, and 
the Methodist Episcopal Church was duly organized — 
th efrst American Episcopal Church. See Methodism. 
.Mr. Wesley did not pretend to ordain bisliops in any 
other sense than according to his view of primitive 
episcopacy, in which, as he maintained, bishops and 
presbyters are the same order. The grounds of his 
procedure in the case are stated in his *• Letter to Dr. 
Coke and Air. Asbiirv,” prefixed to u Sunday Service 
of the Methodists” (1784) ; given also in Watson’s Life 
of Wesley (p. 244). Ail excellent sketch of the rise of 
the Methodist episcopacy is given by Stevens, History 
of Methodism, vol, ii. 

A'. The Moravian Church ( Unit as Fratrum ) holds to 
episcopacy. Their bishops, however, are not diocesan. 
The history of the preservation of the episcopate is 
given in De Schweinitz, The Moravian Episcopate 
(Bethlehem, 1805). Sec Moravians. 


EPISCOPALIANS 


267 


EPISCOPIUS 


See Canones et Decreta Concil. Trident., sess. xxiii ; j 
Catechism of the Council of Trent, pt. ii, Sacrament of 
Orders ; Bungener, History of the Council of Trent , bk. 
v cli. ii ; Elliott, Delineation of R monism, bk. ii, chap, 
xv ; Mohler, Symbolism, § 43 ; Rothe, Anf tinge d. christ - | 
lichen Kirche, vol. i ; Baur, Ur sprung des Episcopats j 
(Tubingen, 1838, 8vo) ; Xesmder, Church History, i, 190; | 
Mosheim, CL History, vol. i ; Ivillen, Ancient Church , 
sect, iii, chaps, vi, vii; Coleman, Ancient Christianity , 
chap, viii ; Coleman, Apostolical an l Primitive Church , | 
ch. vi ; Lord King, Primitive Church (12mo) ; Bangs, ] 
Original Church of Christ (N. Y. 12mo) ; Scliaff, History J 
of the Christian Church , vol. i, § 107, 108 ; Emory, On j 
Episcopacy ; Emory, Defence of our Fathers (N. York, 
Svo) ; Wesley, 1 Corks, vii, 312 ; Stillingfleet, Jrtnicum, \ 
8vo; Stevens, History of Methodism, vol. ii, chaps, vi, i 
vii ; Watson, Life of Wesley, ch. xiii ; Burnet, History j 
of English Reformation, i, 400, 580; iv, 170; Porter, 
Compendium of Methodism ; Princeton Renew, January, 
1856 ; Ligbtfoot, On Philippvtns (1808), Appendix ; 
The Rise of the Episcopate (Xew Englander, July, 
1867); Palmer, On th> Church (High-Church view), 
ii, 319 sq. ; Hinds, Rise and Early Progress of Cliris- 
t'anily (Encgclop. Metropol. London, 1850, 12mo) ; and 
the article Succession. The High-Episcopal view 
is well stated for modern readers in 1 "ox Ecclesice (Phil- 
adelphia, 1866, 12mo); the mo.lerate, in Litton, The 
Church of Christ (Lond. 1851, 8vo ; Phila. 1853, Svo). 

Episcopalians, members of those churches which 
adopt the Episcopal form of Church government. See 
Episcopacy; Methodist Episcopal Church ; Mo- 
ravians; Lutheran Church ; England, Church 
of; Protestant Episcopal Church. 


was ordained pastor of Bleys wick, a village near Rck< 
terdam. In 1611 a colloquy was held at the Hague, 
by order of the States General, with a view to ending 
the agitating controversy between the Gomarists and 
Arminians, between six Remonstrant pastors and six 
Contra-Remonstrants. Episeopius, as one of the six 
Remonstrants, displayed so much learning and skill 
that his fame spread through all the country. In 1G12 
he was appointed professor of theology in the Univer- 
sity of Leyden, as successor of Gomavus. Here bis 
pre-eminent talents had full scope, and his reputation 
grew rapidly. The Gomarist controversy, however, 
waxed hotter and hotter ; the orthodoxy ot‘ Episeopi- 
us was called in question by bis theological opponents ; 
and the rage of the Calvinistic party among the popu- 
lace even went so far as to threaten violence. In 
1614 he went to Amsterdam to attend a baptism, and 
the minister, I lev den, having stigmatized him as a 
heretic, he was saved from stoning only by the zeal 
of his friends. A blacksmith once ran after him with 
a hot iron with the cry, “ Stop the Arminian disturber 
of the Church,” and would probably have murdered 
him but for the interference of by-standers. 

The Synod of Dort was held in 1018. See Dort. 
Episeopius was the chief spokesman of the Arminians. 
At the 23d session he delivered a discourse of great 
power, which is to be found in his lUorfo, in Limborch's 
I 'ita Episcopii, and in Calder’s Life of Episeopius (X. Y. 
1837, chap. x). The synod condemned the Arminians, 
and by the aid of the civil government banished the 
Remonstrant ministers. Episeopius retired lirst to 
Antwerp, where he wrote his Responsio ad duas retri 
Waddingii Jesuitic Epistolas (1621, on the Rule of Faith 
and on the Worship of Tillages); his celebrated Con- 


Episcopius. Simon (Dutch, BUschnp ), an emi- 
nent and learned Arminian theologian, was born in 
January, 1583, at Amsterdam, where he received his 
school education. In 1600 he went to the University 
of Leyden, where he took his degree of M.A. in 1606. 
He thenceforward devoted himself to the stud}' of the- 
ology. “Earnestly,” says Curcellams (in his eulogy 
on Episeopius), “did he listen to the lectures of those 
very learned professors, Francis Gomarus, Luke Trel- 
catius, and James Arminius; and in the exercises of 
debates and harangues, which they commonly called 
theses , he left many of his equals far in the distance, 
and was highly esteemed as one worthy of being call- 
ed to the ministry of the divine word. But when, es- 
pecially after the death of Trelcatius, that terrible dis- 
cussion on predestination, which afterwards agitated 
all Holland, finally arose, and was not only secretly 
carried on between the two professors, hut also broke 
forth into open violence, our Episeopius became favor- 
ably inclined towards the Arminian doctrines. For 
this reason he received little favor from the pastors on 
the opposite side of the controversy, so that when the 
very illustrious councils of the state of Amsterdam, to 
whom the singular learning and piety of Episeopius 
had become known, would have invited him to become 
their preacher, these pastors, by causing delays, en- 
tirely frustrated the plans of the councils. Episeopi- 
us, disheartened at this affair, determined to leave the 
academy at Leyden, and in the year 1609 (in which 
year Arminius died) he betook himself to the Franeker 
Academy, belonging to the Frisii, incited especially by 
the fame of that most illustrious man and learned pro- 
fessor of the sacred language, John Drusius. But there 
he displayed, as youths of a bold mind are wont, such 
a zeal in the theological discussions, that he gave not 
a little offence to Sibrandus Lubbertus, a professor of 
that academy. Accordingly, a few months after, he 
departed and came into France, where in a brief space 
of time he obtained so fair a mastery of the French 
language that he not only understood it, but could 
speak it with considerable ease and purity. Finally, 
in the year 1610, he returned to his native land, only "to 
receive the same tokens of ill will.” In that year he 


fessio Eulei Remonstrant ium (Remonstrants’ Confession 
of Faith, 1622; Opera, vol. iii); Antidotipn, sice genu - 
in a Decliratio sent. By nodi Dordracence (Opera, vol. ii, 
bond. 1678). When the war between Spain and ths 
Netherlands was renewed, Episeopius took refuge in 
France, residing chiefly in Paris (1C21-1626). Here 
he published Parapkras’s in cap. viii-xi Epist. ad Ro- 
manos (Paraphrase cn Romans viii-xi, Opera, vol. i); 
Bod 'diems Inepthns (Bodecherus the Simple; a de- 
fence of the Remonstrants against the charge of So- 
einianism ; Excnnen tliesiuin J. Capelli (on the Calvin- 
istic and Arminian Controversy in Belgium) ; Tractatus 
de Libero Arbitrio (Gjiera, vol. i) ; Correspondence with 
Job. Cameron on Grace and Free Will (Opera, vol. i). 
On the death of Prince Maurice (1625) the persecution 
of the Remonstrants slackened, and it became safe for 
Episeopius to return to bis country in 1626, when he 
became minister to the Remonstrants of Rotterdam. 
Here be published Apologia pro Confcssione, etc. (Apol- 
ogy for the Confession of the Remonstrants), and other 
controversial tracts ( Opera , vol. iii). In 1634 he was 
made rector of the newly-established college of the Re- 
monstrants at Amsterdam, where the rest of his life 
was spent in diligent and successful teaching, and in 
constant literary and pastoral activity. 4 he fruits of 
his lectures appear in permanent form in his Institut/’o- 
| nes Theologicic, lib. iv, which, however, was left unfin- 
ished, and published posthumously (Opera, vol. i) ; and 
also in Responsio ad Quastiones TLologicas Iciv (An- 
swers to 64 questions in theology proposed by stu- 
dents). lie died April 4,1643. 

Episcopins was acknowledged, even by his enemies, 
to be a man of very rare abilities, as well as of great 
learning. Ileidanus (one of his opponents) says he 
was endowed with “great learning, penetration, elo- 
quence, and skill.” IBs friend Uitenbogaert declared 
that he had never met a theologian “to be compared 
with Episeopius for his knowledge of the Scriptures 
and of divine subjects.” Mabillon recommends his In- 
stitutes as of great value to students of divinity, except 
the parts in which he speaks against Romanist doc- 
trines. Bull (in his Judgment of the Catholic Church ) 
speaks of him as the “ very learned Episeopius.” His 


EPISTLE 


EPISCOPUS EPISCOPORUM 2G8 


talent for controversy was of a very high order ; but | 
liis Institutes shows that he also possessed the power 
of clear and luminous statement to a rare degree. The j 
theology of Episcopius is, in substance, that of Ar- 
miniiis. He has been charged with Socinianism, but 
his writings, controversial and other, sufficiently re- j 
futc that charge as brought not only against him, but 
against the early Remonstrants in general. The 
ciiarge was in part due to the fact that he held the 
ethical side of Christianity to be the test of communion 
rather than the doctrinal; holding that Christianity 
is not so much a doctrine as a life, and that it has its 
doctrines only with a view to its life. The two great 
champions of the doctrine of the Trinity in England, 
Waterland and Bull, both wrote against Episcopius. J 
Wntcrland {Importance of the Doctrine of the Trinity , 
llo/fe, Oxford, 1853, iii, 440 sq.) states that Episcopi- 
us holds “the doctrine of the Trinity, as to the main 
substance of it, to he certain and clear, but yet not 
necessary to be believed in order to salvation,” and 
adds that the doctrine is “taught in full and strong 
terms in the ‘ Confession of the Remonstrants, 1 and in 
other places in the works of Episcopius.” He then 
goes on, and successfully, to show the error and dan- 
ger of the unguarded statement of Episcopius as to its 
importance. Bull’s Judgment of the Catholic Church on 
the necessity ofbeUeviny that our Lord Jesus Christ is very 
God ( 1 1 'v?i's on the Trinity , Oxford, 1854, vol. iii), was 
written expressly to refute the statement of Episco- 
pius ( Institutes , bk. iv, ch. xxxiv, $ *2), that “in the 
primitive churches, during at least three centuries, the 
belief and profession of the special divine sonship of 
Christ was not judged necessary to salvation.” It is 
hardly necessary to say that Bull makes out his case. 
He does not, however, charge Episcopius with doc- 
trinal error, ljut with too great and even dangerous 
liberality. lie states also that, “although Episcopius 
was a man of unquestionably great ability, and in 
many respects possessed learning of no ordinary kind, 
yet he but little consulted or regarded, nay, he actual- 
ly despised the writings of the ancient fathers and doc- 
tors.” But on this see Limborch (cited by Caldcr, 
Life of Episcopius , N. Y. ed. p. 433). After the death 
of Episcopius, Jurieu charged him with Socinianism, 
which gave rise to a sharp letter from Clericus (Le 
Clerc) refuting the charge (see Bavle, s. v. Episcopius). 

The writings of Episcopius were collected by Cur- 
celhnus, who published vol. i, Amst.1650, with a sketch 
of the author’s life ; vol. ii, edited by roclenburg, ap- 
peared in 1665. A second edition was published un- 
der the title S. Episcopii opera omnia theologica, cum 
autoyrapho collata , et d mendis aliquot yravioribus re- 
pur y at a (Loud. 1678, 2 vols. fol.). His life was also 
written by Philip Limborch, first in Dutch, and after- 
wards enlarged in Latin {Ilist. Vital S. Episcopii, etc., 
Amst. 1701). There is an English version of his Lab - 
yrinflins Pontijicms under the title Popish Labyrinth, 
or a Treatise on Infallibility (Loud. 1763). See also 
Calder, Memoirs of Simon Episcopius (New York, 1837, 
l*2mo) ; Heppe, in Herzog, Real-Encyhlop. iv, 160 ; a 
translation of Curcellacus’s sketch, in the Methodist 
Quarterly Review, Oct. 1863, p. 612 ; Nichols, Calvinism 
and Arminianism compared (Loud. 1824, 2 vols. 8vo); 
Moris on, On the ninth of Romans , p. 40 (Kilmarnock, 
1840, 8 vo); Schroekh, Kirchenyesehichte seit d. Refor- 
mation, v, 230-296; and the articles Arminianism; 
Dort ; Remonstrants. 

Epi3Copus Episcoporum, bishop of bishops, a 
title assumed by the popes. 

Episcopus in Partibus, bishop in partibus in- 
fulelhim , see Bisnor, vol. i, p. 821, col. 2. 

Episcopus GBcumenicus, (Ecumenical bishop , 
a title of the Patriarch of Constantinople. 

Epistle (i— loroXi), something sent, as 4 a “letter”). 
The use of written letters implies, of course, consider- 
able progress in the development of civilized life. 


There must he a recognised system of notation, pho* 
netic or symbolic ; men must be taught to write, and 
have -writing materials at hand. In the early nomadic 
stages of society accordingly, like those which mark 
the period of the patriarchs of the O. T., we find no 
traces of any but oral communications. In the Ho- 
meric poems, though messages are usual, yet a sort of 
hicroglyphical letters is not unknown {II. vi, 168). 
Messengers -svere sent instructed what to say from 
Jacob to Esau (Gen. xxxii, 3), from Balak to Balaam 
(Ntim. xxii, 5, 7, 16), bringing back in like manner a 
verbal, not a written answer (Num. xxiv, 12). See 
Messenger. The negotiations between Jephthah and 
the king of the Ammonites (Judg. xi, 12, 13) were 
conducted in the same way. It was still the received 
practice in the time of Saul (1 Sam, xi, 7, 9). The 
reign of David, bringing the Israelites, as it did, into 
contact with the higher civilization of the Phoenicians, 
witnessed a change in this respect also. See Ambas- 
sador. The first recorded letter (“£D = “book 
comp, use of j3i(3\tov, Herod, i, 123) in the history of 
the O. T. was that which “ David wrote to Joab, and 
sent by the hand of Uriah” (2 Sam. xi, 14), and this 
must obviously, like the letters that came into another 
history of crime (in this case also in traceable connec- 
tion with Phoenician influence, 1 Kings xxi, 8, 9), 
have been “sealed with the king’s seal,” as at once 
the guarantee of their authority, and a safeguard 
against their being read by any but the persons to 
whom they were addressed. The material used for 
the impression of the seal was probably the “clay” of 
Job xxxviii, 14. The act of sending such a letter is, 
however, pre-eminently, if not exclusively, a kingly 
act, where authority and secrecy were necessary. 
Hence they contained simply royal commands, and 
nothing is said of salutation or even address in con- 
nection with them. Joab, on the other hand, answ ers 
the letter which David had sent him after the old plan, 
and receives a verbal message in return. The demand 
of Bcnliadad and Allah’s answer to it are combed in 
the same way (1 Kings xx, 2, 5). Jehu wrote letters, 
and sent them to Samaria to authorities, respecting 
Ahah’s children, the form of which, or of the one tran- 
scribed, is the first instance in the Bible of anything 
like a formula. It begins, “Now r as scon as this let- 
ter ccmetli to you,” but ends without any like phrase. 
It was apparently replied to by a message, and Jehu 
wrote another letter, which, as given, has not the same 
peculiarity as the first. That Jehu, who, though per- 
haps well born, was a rough soldier, should have writ- 
ten — and there is no ground for supposing that he used 
a scribe, l ut, from the extremely characteristic style, 
rather evidence against, such an idea — indicates that 
letter-writing was then common (2 Kings x, 1-7). In 
this case secrecy may have been thought desirable, 
but the importance of the matter would have been a 
sufficient reason for writing. Written communica- 
tions, however, become more frequent in the later 
history. The letter w hich the king of Syria, Bcnha- 
dad, sent by Naaman to Jehorani, king of Israel, 
though to a sovereign w'ith whom the w riter was at 
peace, is in the same peremptory style, with no salu- 
tation (2 Kings v, 5, 6), from which we may conjec- 
ture that only the principal contents are given in this 
and like instances. The “writing” (£FCp) to Jeho- 
rain, king of Jrnlah, from Elijah (q. v.) must have been 
a written prophecy rather than a letter (2 Chron. xxi, 
12-15) ; though it must be observed that such prophe- 
cies when addressed to persons are of an epistolary 
character. Ilezekiah, wdien he summoned the whole 
nation to keep the Passover, sent letters “from the 
king and his princes,” as had been determined at a 
council held at Jerusalem by the king, the princes, 
and all the congregation. The contents of these let- 
ters are given, or the substance. The form is that 
of an exhortation, without, how’ever, address. The 


EPISTLE 


2G9 


EPISTLE 


character is that of a religious proclamation (2 Chron. 
xxx, 1-9). Hezekiah, in fact, introduced a system 
of couriers like that afterwards so fully organized un- 
der the Persian kings (comp. Herod, viii, 98, and Estli. 
viii, 10, 14). The letter or letters of Sennacherib to 
Hezekiah seem to have been written instructions to 
liis messengers, which were given to Hezekiah to 
show him that they had their master’s authority. It 
is to be observed that the messengers were command- 
ed, “ Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah,” and that llez- 
ekiah “received the letter” from them. What he re- 
ceived was probably a roll of papyrus, as that which 
Jehoiakim burnt seems to have been (Jer. xxxvi, 23), 
for when he took it to the Temple he “ spread it be- 
fore the Lord” (2 Kings xix, 9-14 ; Isa. xxxvii, 9-14 ; 
comp. 2 Chron. xxxii, 17). It does not appear to have 
beeii usual for the prophets to -write letters. Generally 
they seem, when they did not go themselves to those 
whom they would address, either to have sent a mes- 
senger, or to have publicly proclaimed what they were 
commissioned to say, knowing that the report of it 
would be carried to those whom it specially concern- 
ed. When Nebuchadnezzar had carried captive some 
of the people of Judah, we read how Jeremiah address- 
ed them by a letter, which is a written exhortation 
and prophecy (xxix, 1-23). It can scarcely be said 
that here we perceive a positive distinction between 
the later prophets and the earlier, for Elijah sent a 
letter or “writing” to Jehoram, king of Judah, as al- 
ready noticed. The distance of Babylon from Jerusa- 
lem, and of Jerusalem from the kingdom which was 
the scene of Elijah’s ministry, seems to afford the true 
explanation. That letters w'ere not uncommon be- 
tween the captives at Babylon and those w T ho remain- 
ed at Jerusalem before it was destroyed, appears prob- 
able from the mention of letters to Zephaniah the 
priest, and to others from a false prophet Shemaiali, 
at Babylon, in contradiction of Jeremiah’s letter (24- 
29). Jeremiah was commanded to send to the cap- 
tives a condemnation of this mau (30-32), and it is 
therefore probable that at least three letters passed on 
this occasion. Though with the little evidence we 
have we cannot speak positively, it seems as if the 
custom of letter-writing had become more common by 
degrees, although there is no ground for inferring any 
change in its character. Still we find nothing of an 
address or signature. The letter seems to be always 
a document, generally a message written for greater 
security or to have full authority, and was probably 
rolled, tied up, and sealed with the writer’s seal. See 
Letter. 

Although no Hebrew' letters are preserved of the 
time before David, it might be supposed that the form 
might have been derived from Egypt. We have pap- 
yri containing copies by Egyptian scribes of the kings 
of the Baineses family about the 13th century B.C., 
of letters of their own correspondence. These show' a 
regular epistolaiv style, the conventionalism of which 
at once removes ns from all ideas of Sheniitic literature. 
There is an air of the monuments about it that strikes 
us in the descriptive character of certain of the forniu- 
1 is. Some letters, from a superior to an inferior, com- 
mence in the manner shown in the follow ing example : 
“The chief librarian Ameu-em-an, of the royal white 
house, says to the scribe Penta-ur, Whereas, this let- 
ter is brought to you, saying— communication.” A 
usual ending of such letters is, “ Do thou consider 
this.” Some begin with the word “ Communication.” 
The fuller form also seems to be an abbreviation. An 
inferior scribe, addressing his superior, thus begins: 
“The scribe Penta-ur salutes bis lord, the chief libra- 
rian, Amen-em-an, of the royal white house. This 
comes to inform 1113 ' lord. Again I salute my lord. 
Whereas I have executed all the commissions imposed 
upon me by my lord, well and truly, completely and 
thoroughly [?] I have done no wrong. Again I sa- 
lute my lord.” He ends, “ Behold, this message is to 


inform my lord.” A more easy style is seen in a let* 
ter of a son to his father, which begins, “The scribe 
Amen-mesu salutes [bis] father, captain of bowmen, 
Bek-en-ptah,” and ends “Farew'ell.” A military of- 
ficer writing to another, and a scribe writing to a mili- 
tary officer, appear to begin with a prayer for the king 
before the formula “Communication.” A royal or 
government letter is a mere written decree, without 
an)' formal introduction, and ending with an injunc- 
tion to obey it. The contents of these letters are al- 
ways addresses to. the persons w'ritten to, the writer 
using the first person singular. The subject-matter is 
various, and perhaps gives us a better idea of the lite- 
rary ability of the Egyptians, and their lively national 
character, than any other of their compositions (see 
Goodwin on the “ Iloratic Papyri,” in the Cambridge 
Essays , 1855, p. 220 sq.). Indeed in Egypt everything 
of importance was committed to writing (Wilkinson, 
Anc. Eg. ii, 176, abridgm.), and the monuments con- 
stantly depict scribes taking an inventory or check of 
all sorts of operations. See Egypt. 



Ancient Egyptian giving an account to two scribes of tin* stock 
on the estate. 

Before fig:. 1 is the satchel, and above fig:. 2 the box for holding: writing: im- 
plements and papyri. They are writing on boards : in their left hands are 
the ink-stands with black and red ink. 

In the books of Scripture w r ritten after the return 
from Babylon, mention is made of letters of the ene- 
mies of the Jews to the kings of Persia, and of the 
kings to these persons, the Jews, or their officers, some 
of which are given. These are in an official style, 
with a greeting, and sometimes an address. The let- 
ter to Artaxerxes contains the form, “Be it, known 
unto the king,” “Be it knowm now' unto the king” 
(Ezra iv, 11-16) ; and his answer thus begins, “ Peace 
[or “ welfare”], and so forth” (17-22), the expres- 
sion “and so forth” occurring elsewdiere in such a 
manner that it seems to be used by the transcriber 
for brevity’s sake (10, 11; vii, 12). It liinst, there- 
fore, not be compared to the common modern Ara- 
bic formula of commencement, “After the [usual] 
salutations.” Tlie letter of the opponents of the Jew s 
to Darius (Hystaspis) thus begins: “Unto Darius the 
king, all peace. Be it known unto the king (v, 6-17).” 
The letter of Artaxerxes (Longimanus) to Ezra is a 
w'ritten decree, and not an ordinary letter, save in form 
(vii, 11, 26). Nehemiah asked for, and was granted, 
letters from the same king to the governors and the 
keeper of the king’s forest (Nell, ii, 7, 9). When he 
was rebuilding Jerusalem, Sanballat sent him “an 
open letter” by his servant, repeating an invented ru- 
mor of the Jew's 1 intention to rebel (vi, 5, 7) : no doubt 
it was left not sealed purposely, either in order that 
the rumor should be so spread as if by accident, or to 
show' disrespect. At this time many letters passed be- 
tween the nobles of Judah and Tobiah, and letter-writ- 
ing seems to have been common (17 ; see also 19). In 
Esther we read of exactly flic same custom as that 
spoken of in the case of Jezebel’s letter, the authority 


EPISTLE 


270 


EPISTLES 


ct writings with the king's name and seal, even if not [ 
written by him. It is related that Ahasuerns “took 
his signet from his hand and gave it unto Hainan,” 
who caused letters to he written containing a mandate : 
“In the name of king Ahasuerus was it written, and 
sealed with the king's signet” (Estli. iii, 10, 12, 13). In 
like manner, the same authority was given to Esther 
and Mordecai, and it is remarked, “ For the writing 
which is written in the king’s name, and scaled with 
the king’s signet, may not be reversed” (viii, 7, 8). 
The inthience of Persian, and yet more, perhaps, that 
of Greek civilization, led to the more frequent use of 
letters as a means of intercourse. Whatever doubts 
may he entertained as to the genuineness of the epis- 
tles themselves, their occurrence in 1 Macc. xi, SO; 


xii, 0, 20; xv, 1, 16; 2 Macc. xi, 16, 34, indicates that 
they were recognised as having altogether superseded 
the older plan of messages orally delivered. See 
Letter. 

The two stages of the history of the N. T. present in 
tins respect a very striking contrast. The list of the 
canonical books shows how largely epistles were used 
in the expansion and organization of the Church. 
Those which have survived may be regarded as the 
representatives of many others that are lost. We are 
perhaps too much in the habit of forgetting that the 
absence of all mention of written letters from the Gos- 
pel history is just as noticeable. With the exception 
of the spurious letter to Abgarns (q. v.) of Edessa 
(Euseb. 11. E. i, 13) there are no epistles of Jesus. The 
explanation of this is to be found partly in the circum- 
stance of one who, known as the “carpenter’s son,” 
was training as his disciples those who, like himself, 
belonged to the class cf laborers and peasants, partly in 
the fact that it was by personal rather than by written 
teaching that the work of the prophetic office, which he 
reproduced and perfected, had to be accomplished. See 
Jesus Christ. In the Acts of the Apostles we have 
t lie short epistle addressed by the apostolic council 
held at Jerusalem to the Gentile converts in Antioch, 
Syria, and Cilicia (Acts xv, 23-24). There is also a 
letter from Claudius Lysias to Felix, which may l.e 
supposed to preserve the official style of the provinces. 
Both these use the common Greek formulas, beginning, 
after the names of the writer and the person written 
to, with the salutation, and ending with the adieu. 
The epistles of the N. T. in their outward form are 
such as might be expected from men who were brought 
into contact with Greek and Roman customs, them- 
selves belonging to a different race, and so reproducing 
the imported style with only partial accuracy. They 
begin (the Epistle to the Hebrews and 1 John except- 
ed) with the names of the writer, and those to whom the 
epistle is addressed. Then follows the formula of sal- 
utation (analogous to the tv TrnctTTHv of Greek, the N., 
S. 1)., or 8. I). M., salutcm , salutem dic'd, salutem dicit 
mult am , of Latin correspondence) — generally in Paul’s 
Epistles in some combination of the words “grace, 
mercy, and peace” (yoptc, t\tor, ttpt) vij) ; in others, 
as in Acts xv, 23; dames i, 1, with the closer equivalent 
of \ctiptw, “ greeting,” which last is never used by 
Paul. 4 hen the letter itself commences in the first 
person, the singular and plural being used, as in the 
letters of Cicero, indiscriminately (comp. 1 Cor. ii ; 2 
Cor. i, 8, 15; 1 Thcss. iii. 1, 2; and passim). When 
the substance of the letter has been completed, ques- 
tions answered, truths enforced, there come the indi- 
vidual messages, characteristic, in rani’s Epistles es- 
pecially, of one who never allowed his personal affec- 
tions to he swallowed up in the greatness of his work. 
The conclusion in this case was probably modified by 
the fact that the. letters were dictated to an amanuen- 
sis. When he had done his work, the apostle took up 
the pen o reed, and added, in his own large’ charac- 
ters (Gal. vi, 11), the authenticating autograph, some- 
times with special stress on the fact that this was his 
writing (1 Cor. xvi, 21; Gal. vi, 11; Col. iv, 18; 2 


Thess. iii, 17), always with one of the closing formula} 
of salutation, “Grace be with thee” — “the grace of 
our Lord Jesus Christ he with your spirit.” In one 
instance, Bom. xvi, 22, the amanuensis in his own 
name adds his salutation. In the “farewell” ( tpfuooo 
of Acts xxiii, 30, tppuxjtft of Acts xv, 20) we have the 
equivalents to the vale, valete , which formed the cus- 
tomary conclusion of Roman letters. It need hardly 
be said that the fact that Paul’s Epistles were dictated 
in this way accounts for many of their most striking 
peculiarities, the frequent digressions, the long paren- 
theses, the vehemence and energy as of a man who is 
speaking strongly as his feelings prompt him rather 
than writing calmly. An allusion in 2 Cor. iii, 1 brings 
before us another class of letters which must have 
been in frequent use in the early ages of the Christian 
Church, the tTrurroXai overran /cat, cr letters of recom- 
mendation, by which travellers or teachers were com- 
mended by one church to the good offices of others. 
Other persons (there may le a reference to A polios, 
Acts xviii,27) had come to the Church of Corinth rely- 
ing on these. Paul appeals to his converts as Christ’s 
epistle {tiuerroXt) Xptorop, 2 Cor. iii, 3), written, “not 
with ink, hut with the spirit of the living God.” — Kit- 
to, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. For other particulars as to the 
material and implements used for epistles, see Writ- 
ing. 

EPISTLES, Apostolical. All the revelations of 
God to mankind rest upon history. Therefore in the 
Old, as well as in the New Testament, the history of 
the deeds of God stands as being the basis of holy 
writ; thereupon follow the books which exhibit the 
doctrines and internal life of the men of God — in tho 
Old Testament the Psalms, the writings of Solomon, 
etc., amt in the New Testament the epistles of the 
apostles ; finally, there follow in the Old Testament the 
writings of the prophets, whose vision extends into 
the times of the New Testament ; and at the conclu- 
sion of the New Testament stands its only prophetic 
Look, the Revelation of John. 

1. The Pauline epistles are thirteen in number, or 
fourteen, if we add to them the epistle to the Hebrews. 
Three of these are distinctively styled the rastcrul 
Epistles, namely, those to Timothy and Titus, as being 
chiefly on the duties of the pastorate. Up to our days 
the genuineness of the first thirteen epistles of Paul 
has almost unanimously been recognised in Germany, 
with the exception only of the pastoral epistles, and 
more especially the first letter to Timothy. Eichhorn 
and Bauer have attacked the genuineness of all the 
three pastoral epistles, and Sehleiermacher that of the 
first epistle to Timothy. Indeed, the very peculiar 
character of the Pauline epistles is so striking to any 
one who is not ignorant of the want of ease and orig- 
inality" conspicuous in the counterfeit writings of early 
times, as to leave not the least doubt of their genuine- 
ness. Depth of thought, fire of speech, firmness of 
character — these manly features, joined withal to the 
indulgence of feelings of the most devoted love and 
affection, characterize these epistles. The amiable 
personal character of the apostle may he most beauti- 
fully traced in his epistle to the Philippians and in 
that to Philemon. (On many peculiarities of the 
Pauline epistles, see Laurent, Nentestam. Studien , 
Gotha, 1866.) See Paul. 

All Paul’s epistles, except the one to the Romans, 
were called forth by circumstances and particular oc- 
casions in the affairs of the communities to which 
they were addressed. It is believed that all the apos- 
tolical epistles of Paul have been preserved ; for the 
inference from 1 Cor. v, 3, that a letter to the Co- 
rinthians has been lost, is not warranted hv the lan- 
guage and circumstances. See Corinthians. First 
Epistle to. From Col. iv, 16, it has also been con- 
cluded — though probably erroneously, since there per- 
haps the letter to the Ephesians is referred to — that 
another letter to the community of Laodicca has like'- 


EPISTLES 271 EPISTLES 


wise been lost. See Laodiceans, Epistles to and 
from. Press of business usually compelled Paul — 
as was, besides, not uncommon in those times — to 
use bis companions as amanuenses. lie mentions 
(Gal. vi, II), as something peculiar, that he had writ- 
ten this letter with his own hand. This circumstance 
may greatly have favored the temptation to forge let- 
ters in his name, because, since the period of Alexan- 
drine literature, it was not unusual to indite spurious 
books, as is evident from Eusebius (Hist. Eccles . p. 23) ; 
and even Christian bishops made complaints about the 
falsification of their letters. Paul alludes to this (2 
Thess. ii, 2), and therefore writes the greeting (2 Thess. 
iii, 17) with his own hand. Paul himself exhorted the 
communities mutually to impart to each other his let- 
ters to them, and read them aloud in their assemblies 
(Col. iv, 16). It is therefore probable that copies of 
these letters had been early made by the several com- 
munities, and deposited in the form of collections. So 
long, therefore, as the various communities transmit- 
ted the manuscripts to each other, no other letters, it is 
obvious, could come into the collections than those 
to whose genuineness the communities to whom they 
were originally addressed bore witness. Even Peter 
(2 Pet. iii, IG) seems to have had before him a number 
of Paul’s letters, as, about forty years later, a number 
of letters of Ignatius were transmitted by Polycarp to 
Smyrna, while the church of Philippi forwarded to 
him those directed to them (Ep. Polio, sub. fin. ; Eu- 
seb. Hist. Eccles. iii, 3G). The Pauline collection, in 
contradistinction to the Gospels, passed by the name 
of 6 ci 7 rv(TTo\og, or “ The Apostle.” 

The letters of Paul may be chronologically arranged 
as those written before his first Roman imprisonment, 
those written during it, and those written after it : 
thus, (a), beginning w T ith his first letter to the Thcs- 
salonians, and concluding with that to the Romans, 
embracing an interval of about six years (A.D. 49-55) ; 
(6), from the letter to the Ephesians to that to the He- 
brews, about tw r o years (A.D. 57-8) ; and (c), his letter 
to Titus and his second to Timothy, about two years 
(A.D. 63-4). See Acts (of tiie Apostles). In our 
Bibles, however, the letters are arranged according to 
tli 3 pre-eminent parts and stations of the communities 
to wdioni they were addressed, and conclude with the 
epistles to the two bishops and a private letter to Phil- 
emon. (See each in its proper place.) 

That these epistles offered great difficulties was al- 
ready felt in the earliest times (2 Peter iii, 1G). In 
the Roman Church their true understanding was more 
particularly lost by the circumstance that it under- 
stood by the law only the opus operation of the cere- 
monial law; consequently the Roman Church could 
not comprehend justification by faith, and taught in- 
stead justification by works. As soon, therefore, as the 
true understanding of the Pauline epistles dawned 
upon Luther, his breach with the Roman Church was 
decided. See Justification. 

2. The Catholic epistles. There is, in the first in- 
stance, a diversity of opinion respecting their name : 
some refer it to their writers (letters from all the other 
apostles who had entered the stage of authorship along 
with Paul); some, again, to their contents (letters of 
no special, but general Christian tenor) ; others, again, 
to the recipients (letters addressed to no community in 
particular). None of these views, however, is free 
from difficulties. The first and the second views — and 
more especially the first — cannot be brought to harmo- 
nize with the idiomatic expressions in the extant pages 
of the ancient w r riters ; the second is, besides, contra- 
dicted by the fact that the letter of James is of a spe- 
cial tenor, while, on the contrary, that to the Romans 
is of such a general character as to deserve the name 
“Catholic” (q. v.) in that sense. The third opinion 
is most decidedly justified by passages from the an- 
cient writers (Euseb. Hist. Eccles. v, 18; Clem. Alex. 
Strom, iv, 15, cd. Potter, p. GOG; Orig. c. Cels, i, 03). 


I The Pauline epistles all had their particular directions, 
while the letters of Peter, James, 1 John, and Jude 
were circular epistles. The epistles 2 and 3 John were 
subsequently added, and included on account of their 
shortness, and to this collection was given the name 
Catholic Letters, in contradistinction to the Pauline, 
which were addressed to particular churches or indi- 
viduals. — Kitto, s. v. The dates of nearly all of them 
are later than those of Paul, but their precise time is 
uncertain. See each in its order; also under Acts 
(of the Apostles). 

3. Literature.— Besides the general Introductions (q. 
v.) to the N. T., or parts of it, and the Prolegomena in 
most modern commentaries on each epistle, there is a 
I wide range of general discussion relating to them which 
cannot here be profitably reviewed: special treatises 
only can be enumerated, and even these not exhaust- 
ively. On the autograph letters there are mono- 
graphs in Latin by Ratlilef (Ilannov. 1752) and Stoseh 
(Guclf. 1751) ; on ecclesiastical letters in general, and 
their various descriptions, by Iierg (Jen. 1GGG), Bencini 
(Taurin. 1730), Brondley (Hafn. 1711-1712), Friderici 
(Gotha, 1754), Kiessling (Lips. 1744), A1 tiller (Stad. 
1G82), Pezold (Lips. 1G98), Schmid (Helmst. 1713), 
Spies (Altorf. 1745); also Bod well (Dissert. Cyprian. 

I Oxon. 1G84, p. 17 sq.), Cassabritius (Notit. Concil. Lugd. 
1G70, p. 275 sq.); introductory in general, by Braun 
j (Selecta Sancta , p. 1 1G2), Klcuker (German, Hamb. 

I 1799), Kohler (Germ. Lpz. 1830); and of the catholic 
epistles specially, by Storr (Tub. 1789), Tiegler (Rost. 
1807), Stiiudler (Gott. 1790). 

! Special Cojimextakies on all the epistles of the 
1 N. T. are the following, of which the most important 
I are denoted by an asterisk (*) prefixed : Cassiodorus, 
Complexiones (ed. Chandler, bond. 1722, 12mo); Card. 
Cajetan, Enar ratio (Veil. 1531, Par. 1532, 1537, 1546, 
Antw. Kill, fol. ; Paris, 1510, Lugd. 155G, 1558, Paris, 
Par. 1571, 8vo ; also in Opp. v) ; Titelmann, Elucula - 
tio (Antw. 1532, 1543, 8vo ; Par. 1553, Ant. 1510, Von. 
1547, Lugd. 1553, 12;r.o); Bullinger, Comment arii (Ti- 
gur. 1537, 1549, 1558, 1582, 1588, 1G03, fol.); Pellican, 
Commentarii (Tigurini, 1539, fol.); Gagnajus, Scholia 
(Par. 1543, 1547, 1550, 1503, 1G29, 1G33, Svo) ; Politus 
(or Catharimis), Commentarius (Rom. 1516, Ven. 1551, 
Par. 15GG, fol.); *Calvin, Commentarii (Geneva, 1551, 
fol.); Bnonriccij Parafrasi (Ven. 15G5, 4to); Beza, 
Explicatio (Gen ev. 1565, 1570, Svo); Hemming, Com- 
mentarius (Lips. 1572, Vitemh. 157G, Freft. 1579, Ar- 
gent. 1589, fol.) ; Arias Montanus, Elucidations (Antw. 
1588, Svo) ; Gnalther, Homiliv (Tigurini, 1599, fol.); 
Erythrophilus, A uslegung (Gosl. 1G05, Sq., 4 vols. -lto) ; 
*Lnbin, Exercitationes [on nearly all the epistles] 
(Rost. 1G10, 4 to) ; *Este, Commentarius (Duoci, 1014- 
G, Colon. 1631, Paris, 1033, 1G40, 1G53, 1G59, 1GGG, 1G<9, 
fol.); Yorstius, Commentary [on most of the epistles] 
(Amst. and He dor. 1031, 4 to) ; Fabricius, Analysis (in 
I Catena, Lips. 1034, 1639, fol.) ; Gomarus, Explicatio (in 
I Opp. 1614, fol.); * Dickson, Commentarius ( Glasg. 1G45, 

1 4 to ; in English, Loml. 1G59, fol.); Trapp, Commentary 
(Lond. 1G47, 4to); Godeau, Paraphrases (Par. 1651, G 
vols., Rouen, 1G57, Lyons, 1G85, 3 vols. 12mo); Fro- 
mond, Commentarius (Lovan. 1653, Paris, Kb 4, fob); 
Anon. Yerklaring (Amst. 1G79, 4to); *Whitby, Com- 
mentary (London, 1700, fol., and since with others); 
Ilunn, Commentarii (Vitemh. 1707, fob); iSoel Alex- 
ander, Commentarius (Kothm. 1710, 2 vols. fol.); Pyle, 
Paraphrase (London, 1725, Svo); ••'Lang, Erkldrung 
(Halle, 1729, fol.) ; Locke, Pierce, and Benson, ]\ira- 
phrase (published separately, London, 1733-52, h vols. 
4to; upon the same plan, and together forming a com- 
mentary on all the epistles); Dale, Analysis (London, 
1737, 2 vols. Svo); AVeitenauer, Exp'icatio, etc. (Aug. 
A T ind. 1769, Svo); Hess, Schr. der Aposiel (Ziir. 1775, 
1820 sq., 3 vols. 8vo) ; Leutwein, Erkldrung (Leipzig, 
1782-9, 3 vols. Svo) ; Nishit, Illustration (Lond. 1787, 
1789 ; in Germ., Numb. 1790, Svo) ; Bahrdt, Erkldrung 
(Berlin, 1787-9, 3 vols. Svo); Przipcovius, Cogitatiom.B 


EPISTLES 


272 


EPISTLES 


(in Opp. Amst. 1792, fob, xxxvi) ; Jaspis, Annotations ' 
(Lips. 1793 7, enlarged, 1821, 2 vols. Svo); K aster, 
Anmerkungen (Cliemn. 1794, Herb 1803, 8vo); *Mac- 
knight. Commentary (London, 1795, 4 vols. 4to; 180G, 
1810, 8 vols. 8vo ; without the Greek text, 1795, 3 vols. 
4to ; 1809, 1810, 4 vols. 8vo ; 1.832, 1 vob Svo); Bob- 
erts, Harmony (Cambr. 1800, 4to) ; Shuttleworth, Par- 
aphrase (Oxf. 1829, 8vo) ; Slade, Annotations (4th ed. 
London, 1830, Svo); Seliotl and AA’inzer, Commentar 
(Lpz. 1834 sq. , 2 vols. 8vo); Bailee, Version (London, 
1837, 8vo); Peile, Annotations (Loud. 1848-52, 4 vols. 
8vo) ; *l*richard, Commentary (Lond. 1804 sq., 3 vols. 

8 vo have appeared). S(*e New Testament. 

On the whole of the Pauline epistles alone, the fol- 
lowing: Origen, Fragnunta (in Opp. iv, 090) ; Ambro- 
siaster, Commenlarius (in Opp. ii, 15); Chrysostom, . 
Jlomiliie (in O/p.) ; Pelagias, Commentarii [on the first 
13 epistles] (in Augustini Opp. Append.); Theodoret, 
Comment arius (London, 1030, fob ; also in Opp. Ill, i ; 
and JJibl. Pair. [Oxf. 8vo] viii) ; Avitus, Fragment a 
(in Bihl. Max. Pair, ix, ete.) ; Prhnasius, Commenta- 
ry ( ib . x, 142); IJede, Expositio (in Opp. vi, 31); St. 
John Damascenus, Excerpta [from Chrysostom] (in 
Opp. ii, 1); Claudius Taurinensis, Prologus (in Mai, 
Script. Vet. VII, i, 274); Sedulius, In epp. P. (Basil, 
1528; also in Bill, Max. Patr. vi, 458); CEeumenius, 
In epp. P. (Gr. and Lat. Yer. 1532, Paris, 1031, 2 vols. 
fob; also in Opp.); Lanfranc, Commentarii (in Opp. ; 
also in Bill. Max. ratr. xviii, 021); ltaban Maurus, 
Commentarii (in Opp.) ; Kemigius Autiss. [Haimo] 
Explanations (C ob 1018, fob ; also in Bill. Max. Patr. 
viii, 883); Theophylaet, Commentarius (Gr. and Latin, 
Lond. 1030, fol. : also in Opp. ii) ; Anselm, Commenta- 
ria (in Opp. ed. 1012); Hugo 5 St. Victor, Qnastioncs \ 
(in Opp. i, 200) ; Aquinas, Expositio (Basil, 1475 ; Lugd. 
1689, fol.; also in Opp. vi, vii) ; Bruno, Commentarius 
(Paris, 1509, fob); Dionysius Carthus., Commentaria 
(Paris, 1531, Svo) ; Peter the Lombard, Collectanea 
[from the fathers] (Paris, 1535, fob ; 1537, 1541, 1543, 
1555, Svo); Snlmeron, Commentarii (in Opp. xiii-xv); 
Contarini, Scholia (Par. 1571 ; A'en. 1589, fob ; also in 
Ofp.) ; Faber, Commentarius (Par. 1512, 1515, 1531, Ba- 
sil. 1527, fob; Cob 1531, 4to ; Antw. 1540, Svo); Bu- 
genhagen, Adnotationes [on most of these epistles] 
(Argent. 1524, Basil. 1525, 1527, Svo); *Calvin, Com- 
mentaria (Argent. 1539, Genov. 1548, 4to ; Genev. 1551, 
1550, 1GO0, 1017, fob ; also since, and in French and 
English); Guilliaud, Collationes (Lngd. 1542, 1543, 4to; 
Par. 1550, Svo) ; Arborcns, Commentarius (Par. 1553, 
fob); *Alusculus, Commentarii [oil nearly all of these 
epistles] (in parts, Basil. 1555 sq., 4 vols. fob); Sas- 
Lout, Commentarius [on most of these epistles] (Antw. 
1501, Svo) ; Major, Enarrationcs (in Opp. Vitemb. 1509, 
fob, i); llyperins, Commentarii (Tigurini, 1583, fol.); 
*Selneeker, Commentarius (Lips. 1595, fob); llespus, 
Commentarius (Muhlh. 1004, Lips. 1005, fob); AVein- 
rieh, Commentarii [on most of these epistles] (in sepa- 
rate volumes, Lips. 1008-18, together 1G20, 1G70, 4to); 
f Baldwin, Commentarius (in separate vols. A r itemb. 
1008-18; together, Freft. 1044, 1004, 1G80, 4to; 1091, 
1700, 1710, Vitemb. 1055, fob); Justinianus, Explanei- 
tiones (Lugd. 1012, 1013, 2 vols. fol.); a Lapide, Cotn- 
mentaria (Antwerp. 1014. 1017, 1022, 1027, 1033, 1G50, 
1005, 1079; Paris, 1021, 1025, 1031, 1038; Lugd. 1G14, 
1083, fol.); Gorcom, Epitome [from Este and others] 
(Antw. 1019, Par. 1023, Svo); Quistorp, Commentarius 
(partly in separate vols. Lost. 1030 sq. ; complete, 1052, 
4to) ; Laurence, Explicatio (Amst. 1042, 4to); Seulte- 
tus, Annotata [on Tim., Titus, and Philem.] (in the 
Critici Sacr t, vii) ; Crell, Commentaria [on many pas- 
sages of these epistles] (in Opp. iii, 1G7) ; l)c Launay, 
Paraphrase (Car. 1050, 4to) ; Ambianas, Commentaria 
(Par. 1059-04, 3 vols. fol.) ; ( ’rocius, Commentarius [on 
the smaller of these epistles] (Alarp. 1003. Cas. 1070, 2 
vols. fob); Calixtus, Expositiones [on njost of these 
epistles] (in parts, llehnst. 1004-0, 4to) ; AVoodhend, 
Allestry, and AValker [ed. Fell], Paraphrase (Oxou. 


1074, 1702 ; Lond. 1707, Svo) ; Scliomer, Exegesis (vob 
i, Host. 1099, 1705 ; ii, 1700, 1700, 4to) ; Heidegger, 
Excgetiea (Tigur. 1700, 4 to) ; [’icon, Expositio (Par. 

1703, fol.); Schmid, Commentarii [on most of these 
epistles] (at first in separate parts ; together; Hamb. 

1704, 4to); Locke, Parophi'ase [on several of these 
epistles] (in parts, London, 1705 sq. ; together, 1709, 
1733, 4to); AVells, Help [on many of these epistles] 
(Lond. 1715, 8vo); Lang, Conimentatio (Hal. 1718, 4to) ; 
Van Til, Commentarius [on four of these epistles] (Am- 
sterd. 172C, 4to); Pierce, Notes [on the smaller of these 
epistles] (in parts, London, 1729 sq. ; together, 1733, 
4to); G. Benson, Paraphrase (London, 1734 sq. ; in 
several vols. separately, and together, 1752-0, 2 vols. ; 
in Germ., Lips. 1701, 4 vols. 4to) ; Homy, Comnuntarius 
(Aug. A"ind. 1739, 4to) ; A'an Alphen, Speclmenei [oil 
five of these epistles] (Tr. ad lib. 1742, 4to); *Miehac- 
lis, Anmerkungen [on most of these epistles] (Gott. 
1750, 1791, 4 to) ; Baumgarten, Auslegung [on the small- 
er of these epistles] (Hal. 1707, 4to) ; Zaeharia, Erkla - 
rung [on the smaller of these epistles] (Gutting. 1771, 
1787, Svo); Addington, Pemarks (in his Life cf Paul, 
London, 1784, 8vo) ; Krause, Anmerk. [on Philem. and 
Tliess.] (Frkft. 1790, Svo); Anonymous, Uelers., etc. 
(llirsch. 1791, 8vo) ; Struve, Uebers ., etc. (Alton. 1792, 
Svo, pt. i); Morns, A creases [on Gal. and Ephes.] (Lips. 
1795, Svo); Bullmann, Observcitiones [on the Hoeme- 
rian MS.] (Hint. 1795, 4to); Bp. Burgess, Jntroductio 
[exeerpts from old writers on many of these epistles] 
(Lond. 1804, 12mo) ; Bevan, Notes (in his Life of Paid, 
London, 1807, Svo); AVeingert, Commentarius [on the 

j smaller epistles, chiefly compiled] (Goth. 1810, 8vo) ; 

Belsham, Exposition (Lond. 1823, 4 vols. Svo) ; *Flatt, 

! Commentar (Till >ing. 1820-32, 5 vols. Svo) ; Stenerson, 
Commentarius (Christ. 1S29-S0, 2 vols. Svo); Hemsen, 
j Schriften , ete. (in his Leben Paulus , Gott. 1830, Svo); 

' Schrader, Paulus (Leipzig, 1830-!’, 5 vols. Svo) ; Paulus, 

I Erliiut. [on Bom. and Gal.] (Heidelberg, 1831, Svo); 
Eyre, Illustration (London, 1832, 2 vols. Svo); Steiger, 
Eearleitnng [on the smaller of these epistles] (Erlang. 
1835, Svo); Latham, Arrangement (Lond. 1837, 8vo); 
Morehead, Explanation (Lond. 1843, Svo) ; AVliately, 
Essays (London, 1845, Cth ed. 1849, 8vo) ; Sumner, Ex- 
position (London, 1845 sq., 3 vols. Svo); Lewin, Life 
and Epist. of Paul (Lond. 1851, 2 vols. Svo); *Cony- 
beare and liowson, Life and Ep. of Paul (Lond. 1852, 
2 vols. 4to; 1850, 1858, N. Y. 1855, 2 vols. Svo); Jow- 
ett, Notes [on Bom., Gal., and Tliess.] (Lond. 1855, 2 
vols. Svo) ; *Ewald, Erkldrung (Gott. 1857, Svo) ; Lin- 
ton, Notes (Lond. 1858, 12mo); *EIlieott, Commentary 
[on several of these epistles] (in separate vols. Lond. 
1859 sq. ; Anelover, 1805, Svo); Newlaud, Catena [on 
Eph. and Phil.] (Lond. 18G0, Svo) ; Macevillv, Imposi- 
tion (2d ed. Lond. 1800, 2 vols. Svo); Bisping, JJandb. 
(Miinst. 1804 sq. Svo). Sec Commentary. 

On the three juistoral epistles alone (1 and 2 Tim., 
and Titus), the following: Jorcme, Commentarii (in 
Opp. Suppos. xi); Chrysostom, Jlomilice (tr. ill JJb. of 
Fathers , Oxf. 1843, Svo, xii) ; ( ’alvin, Sermons (Genev. 
15G3, fol. ; tr. Loiul. 1579, 4to; different from his Com- 
mentary on these epistles, Edinb. 1850, Svo, tr. from 
his Commentarii , in Opp.); Daille, Sermons (Geneva, 
1555-01, 5 vols. Svo) ; Magalianus, Commentarii (Lugd. 
1009, 4to) ; Soto, Commentarius (Par. 1010, fol.) ; Scul- 
tetus, Obserrationes (Francf. 1024, ATtemb. 1030, 4to; 
also in the Crit. Sacri , vii) ; llahertus, Expositio (Par. 
1050, Svo); lleydenreieh, Erlduter. (Iladamar. 1820- 
8, 2 vols. 8vo) ; *Flatt, Anmerk. (Tubing. 1831, Svo); 
Anon. Mtrdcpfiaaic (Par. 1831, Svo) ; Mack, Commentar 
(Tiibing. 1831, 1841, Svo) ; Malthies, Erhlar. (Greifsw. 
1840, Svo); Moller, Commentar (Kopenh. 1842, Svo); 
Paterson, Commentary (London, 1848, Svo); *Ellicott, 
(Commentary (London, 1856, Andover, 1804, Svo). See 
I Timothy; Titus (Epistles to). 

On all the Catholic epistles alone (James, 1 and 2 
Pet., 4, 2, and 3 John, and Jude), the following; The- 
| ophylact, Commentarius (in Opp. iii) ; also Enarrationcs 


273 


EPISTLES, SPUPIOUS 


EPISTLES OF BARNABAS 

(in Bibl. Patr. Gall, vi, 286) ; (Ecumenius, Expositio 
(Frcft. 1610, 4to ; also in Opp. ii) ; Bede, Expositio (in 
Opp. v, 673; H'ort*, xii, 157; comp. Works, i, 215); 
Cramer, Comment arii [from the fathers] (in his Catena , 
viii); Aquinas, Expositio (Paris, 1543, 1563; Lugdun. 
1556, Antwerp, 1592, 8vo ; etc.) ; Hus, Commentarii (in 
Monumenta, ii, 105) ; Faber, Commentarius (Basil, 1527, 
fol. ; Antw. 1540, 8vo) ; Imler, Commentarius (Frcft. 
1542, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Horne, Expositio (Brunswick, 1554, 
4to) ; Hemming, Commentarius (in separate volumes, 
Havn. 1563, and Vitemb. 1569, 8vo ; together, in Eng- 
lish, Loud. 1577, 4 to) ; Ferus, Exegesis (Complut. 1570, 
fol.) ; Aretius, Commentarius (Morg. 1589, Berne, 1608, 
8vo); Cry mens, Explicatio (Basil, 1593, 8vo); Salme- 
ron, Disputationes (in Opp. xvi); Crell, Commentarius 
[on many passages of these epistles] (in Opp. iii, 318) ; 
Cocceius, Commentarius (in Opp. vi); Various, Anno- 
tations (in the Critici Sacri , viii) ; Serarius, Commenta- 
rius (Moguntiac. 1612, fol.) ; Lorinus, Commentarius 
(Lugd. 1619, 2 vols. fol.); Justinianus, Explanationes 
(Lugd. 1621, fol.) ; Turnemann, Meditationes (Frcft. 
1625, 4to); Alsted, Xotationes (Herb. 1631, 1640, 8vo) ; 
Lenajus, Commentarii (Holm. 1645, 4to) ; Benson, Par- 
aphrase (London, 1706, 4to) ; Grarmlich, Anmerkungen 
(Stuttg. 1721, 8vo) ; liiclot, Paraphrase (Metz, 1727, j 
32mo); Collet, Paraphrase (Lond. 1734, 8 vo) ; Boysen, j 
Erldiir . [on Pet. and Jude] (Halle, 1775, 8vo) ; Zach- 
ariii, Erkliir. (Gott. 1776, 8vo); Schirmer, Erldiir. [on 1 
Pet., Jas., and Jude] (Breslau, 1778, 8vo) ; Schroder, 
Erldiir. [on Peter and Jude] (Schwabacli, 1781, Svo) ; 
Schleugel, Anmerk. (Halle, 1783, 8vo); Seeiniller, An- 
notadones [on Jas. and Jude] (Norimburg, 1783, Svo); 
Sender, Paraphrasis [on Pet. and Jude] (Halle, 1784, 
8vo) ; Pott, Annotations (in parts, Gott. 178G-90, Svo ; 
also in the X. T. Koppian. ix) ; E. Bengel, Erkliirung 
(Tub. 1788, 8vo) ; Carpzov, Scholia (Hal. 1790, Svo) ; 
Gopfert, Anmerk. (Zwickau and Lpz. 1791, 8vo); Mo- 
ms, Pnelectiones (on Pet. and Jas.] (Lips. 1794, 8vo) ; 
Poos, A uslegung [on Pet. and Jude] (Tub. 1798, 8vo) ; 
Augusti, Erkliir. (Lemgo, 1801-8, 3 vols. Svo) ; Hot- 
tinger, Commentarius [on 1 Pet. and James] (Lips. 1815, 
8vo); Grashof, Erkliir. (Essen. 1830, Svo); Sumner, 
Exposition (Lond. 1840, 8vo) ; Diedrich, Erldiir. (Lpz. 
1861, 8vo). See each epistle in its place. 

EPISTLES OF BARNABAS. See Barnabas. 

EPISTLES OF CLEMENT. See Clement. 
EPISTLES op tiie APOSTOLICAL FATHERS. 
See Barnabas; Clement op Rome; Ignatius; | 
PoLYCART. 

EPISTLES, Spurious. Of these many are lost; j 
but there are several extant, of which the following j 
are the principal (see Jones, A new Method of settling 
the Canon , vol. ii). See Canon. 

1. The Epistle of Paid to the Laodiceans. — There was 
an “ Epistle to the Laodiceans” extant in the begin- 
ning of the second century, which was received by 
Marc ion, but whether this is the same with the one 
now extant in the Latin language is more than doubt- ■ 
ful. “There are some,” says Jerome, “who read the I 
Epistle to the Laodiceans, but it is universally reject- 
ed.” The original epistle was most probably a forgery 
founded on Coloss, iv, 16. “And when this epistle 
is read among yon, cause that it be read also in the 
Church of the Laodiceans, and that ye likewise read 
the Epistle from Laodicea .” The apparent ambiguity 
of these last words has induced some to understand 
Paul as speaking of an epistle written by him to the 
Laodiceans, which lie advises the Colossians to procure 
from Laodicea and read to their Church. “Some,” 
says Theodoret, “imagine Paul to have written an 
epistle to the Laodiceans, and accordingly produce a 
certain forged epistle ; but the apostle does not say the 
epistle to, but the epistle from the Laodiceans.” Bel- 
larmine among the Roman Catholics, and among the 
Protestants Le Clerc and others, suppose that the pas- 
sage in Colossians refers to an epistle of Paul, now 
III.— S 


lost, and the Vulgate translation — cam gum Laodicensi • 
urn est — seems to favor this view. Grotius, however, 
conceives that the Epistle to the Ephesians is here 
meant, and he is followed by Hammond, Whitby, and 
Mill, and also by archbishop Wake {Epistles of the 
Apostolic Fathers'). Tlieophylact, who is followed by 
Dr. Lightfoot, conceives that the epistle alluded to is 1 
Timothy. Others hold it to be 1 John, Philemon, etc. 
Mr. Jones conjectures that the epistle now passing as 
that to tile Laodiceans (which seems entirely compiled 
out of the Epistle to the Philippians) was the composi- 
tion of some idle monk not long before the Reforma- 
tion; but this opinion is scarcely compatible with the 
fact mentioned by Mr. Jones himself, that when Sixtus 
of Sienna published his Bibliotheca Sancta (A.l). 1560), 
there was a very old manuscript of this epistle in the 
library of the Sorbonne. This epistle was first pub- 
lished by James le Fe vre, of Estaples, in 1517. It may 
be found ill Gr. and Lat. in Fabricius, Codex Apocr. ii, 
871 ; and translated in Hone’s Apocryphal X. T. p. 94. 
See Laodiceans (Epistle to). 

2. The Third Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians. — It 
was the opinion of Calvin, Louis Capell, and many 
others, that the apostle Paul wrote several epistles be- 
sides those now extant. One of the chief grounds of 
this opinion is the passage 1 Cor. v, 9. There is still 
extant, in the Armenian language, an epistle from the 
Corinthians to St. Paul, together with the apostle’s re- 
ply. This is considered by Mr. La Croze to be a for- 
gery of the tenth or eleventh century, and he asserts 
that it was never cited by any one of the early Chris- 
tian writers. In this, however, he is mistaken, for 
this epistle is expressly quoted as Paul’s by St. Grego- 
^the Illuminator in the third century, Theodore Chre- 
thenor in the seventh, and St. Nierses in the twelfth. 
Neither of them, however, is quoted by any ancient 
Greek or Latin writer (Henderson, On Inspiration, p. 
497. The passages are cited at length in father Pas- 
chal Aucher’s Armenian and English Grammar, Ye nice, 
1819. Lord Byron’s translation of them is given by- 
Stanley in his Commentary on Corinthians , ii, 303). See 
Corinthians (First Epistli* to). 

3. The Epistle of Peter to James is a very ancient 
forgery. It was first published by Cotelerius, and is 
supposed to have been a preface to the Preaching of 
Peter, which was in great esteem among some of the 
early Christian writers, and is several times cited as a 
genuine work by Clement of Alexandria, Theodotus of 
Byzantium, and others. It was also made use of by 
the heretic Ileraeleon, in the second century. Origen 
observes of it that it is wot to be reckoned among the 
ecclesiastical books, and that it is neither the writing 
of Peter nor of any other inspired person. Mr. Jones 
conceives it to be a forgery of some of the Ebionites in 
the beginning of the second century. It is given in 
Gr. and Latin by Fabricius, Cod. Apocr. X. T. ii, 907. 
See Peter. 

4. The Epistles of Paul and Seneca consist of eight 
extended Latin letters from the philosopher Seneca to 
the apostle Paul, and six from the latter to Seneca. 
(See Fabricius, Cod. Apocr. X. T. ii, 872; and the trans- 
lation in Hone’s Apocryphal X. T. p. 95 sq.) Their 
antiquity is undoubted. St. Jerome had such an idea 
of the value of these letters that he was induced to say, 
“I should not have ranked Seneca in my catalogue of 
saints, but that I was determined to it by those epis- 
tles of Paul to Seneca and Seneca to Paul, which are 

read by many He was slain by Nero two 

years before Fcter and Paul were honored with mar- 
tyrdom.” St. Augustine also observes ( Epistle to Ma- 
cedonia) that “Seneca wrote certain epistles to St. 
Paul which are now read.” The epistles are also re- 
ferred to in the spurious “Acts” of Linus, the first 
bishop of Lome after the apostles. But these A cts are 
a manifest forgery, and were first alluded to by a monk 
of the eleventh century. The letters do not appear to 
have been mentioned by any other ancient writer ; but 


EPISTOL.E 


274 EPISTOLiE OBSCUK. VIROR, 


dus Manutius was used as publisher, and Venice as 
the place of printing, and a pretended papal privi- 
lege guaranteed it for ten years against counterfeited 


it seems certain that those now extant arc the same 
which were known to Jerome and Augustine. The 
genuineness of these letters has been maintained l»3 r _ 
some learned men, but by far the greater number re- editions. They were addressed to Ortuinus Gratius, 
icet them as spurious. Mr. Jones conceives them to a leading man among the band of literary fanatics 
be a forgery of the fourth century, founded on Philip, at Cologne, an ho was regarded as the real author of 
iv 22. Indeed, there arc few persons mentioned in the writings of Pfefferkorn against Beuehlin. They 


the New Testament as companions of the apostle who 
have not had some spurious piece or other fathered on 
them. See Seneca. 

5. Among the apocryphal letters now universally 
rejected are the well-known Epistle of Lentulns to the 
Homan senate, giving a description of the person of 


give a vivid picture of the opinions, the talk, and the 
writings of the monks and their friends, and expose 
their ignorance, hypocrisy, arrogance, and licentious- 
ness. The satire was so skilful, and the imitation of 
the monkish language and spirit so successful, that, 
according to the testimony of Erasmus, the Francis- 


Olirist ( Orthoeloxographia , p. 2, Basil. 1555; Fabricii cans and Dominicans of England at first received the 
Cod. Epiq. 17PJ), and some pretended epistles of the 1 epistles with great applause, and a Dominican prior 
Virgin Mary. One of these is said to be written in circulated a number of copies among members of his 


Hebrew, and addressed to the Christians of Messina in 
Sicily, of which a Latin translation has been publish- 
ed, and its genuineness gravely vindicated (VeritasVin- 
clicuta , 1092, fob). It is dated from Jerusalem, in the 
4 2d year “of our Son,” nones of July, Luna 17, Feria 
quinta. The metropolitan church of our Lady of the 
Letter , at Messina, takes its name from the possession 
of this celebrated epistle, of which some have pretend- 
ed that even the autograph still exists. An epistle of 
the Virgin to the Florentines has been also celebrated, 
and there is extant a pretended letter from the same to 
St. Ignatius, together with his reply. (For three of 
these spurious letters, see Fabrieiu s, Cod. Apocr. X. T. 
ii, 842.)— Kitto, s. v. See Jesus Christ. 

For other spurious epistles, see Apocrypha. 

Epistolae. When the ancient Christians were 
about to travel into a foreign country, they took with 
them letters of credence from their own bishop, in or- 
der that they might communicate with another church. 
These letters were of three kinds : epistolee commenda- 
toriee , given to persons of quality, or persons whose 
reputation had been called in question, or to the cler- 
gy who had occasion to travel into foreign countries ; 
cpistola commuMcatorifr , given to such as were in peace 
and communion with the Church ; ejnstolee dimissoria ?, 
such as were given by the bishops to the clergy when 
removing from one diocese to another. All these were 
called epistoke formates, because they were written in 
a peculiar form, with certain marks, which served to 
distinguish them from counterfeits. — Fnrrar, Eccles. 
Dictionary, s. v. ; Bingham, Orig. Eccl. bk. ii, cli. iv. 

Epistolee Obscurornm Virornm ( Epistles of 
obscure Men), a celebrated collection of letters ly 
anonymous authors, in which the opponents of Human- 
ism, and the Church of Borne in general, were casti- 
gated with pungent satire. The special occasion for 


order, believing them to be written in its honor. When 
the real character was discovered, the rage of the 
monks was great, and the pope was prevailed upon to 
issue against the epistles a brief of condemnation. 
Pfefferkorn wrote a book against the epistles in 1516 
{thfensio Joa. repcricorni contra famosas et criminales 
obscurornm rirorum epistolas), and the monks, in 1718, 
published against it a work called Lamentaiiones ob- 
scurorum virorum ; but all these books were so poor 
and insipid that they increased rather than weakened 
the effect of the epistles. The Lamentationes in par- 
ticular, as a defence of the monks, are so ineffective 
that some Roman Catholic writers, though without 
good reason, ascribe the authorship to the Humanists 
themselves. The epistles consist of three parts. The 
first was printed in 1515 at Ilagenau b}' the learned 
printer Wolfgang Angst, a friend of Eeuchlin, under 
the title Epi stoke Obseurorum Virorum ad venerabilem 
virum Mag. Ortuinum Gratium, Daventriensem (“a na- 
tive of Deventer”) Colonue Agrippina? bonas littcras 
docentem, variis et locis et temporilvs missce etc demum in 
volumen couetev. The second part was printed at Basel 
in 1517 by Froben ; the third, which is much inferior 
to the two former, appeared much later. Sir William 
Hamilton ( Edinburgh Ecrieir, liii, 193) remarks that 
“the Epistolee are at once the most cruel and the most 
natural of satires, and, as such, they were the most 
effective. They converted the tragedy of Rem Mill's 
persecution into a farce ; annihilated, in public con- 
sideration, the enemies of intellectual improvement; 
and even the friends of Luther, in Luther's lifetime, 
acknowledged that no other writing had contributed 
so powerfully to the downfall of the papal domination.” 

As to the authorship of the Epistolee, there has been 
much dispute. It appears certain that neither Eras- 
mus nor Benchlin had any part in the compilation. 
The recent German critics generally incline to think 


the publication °of these epistles was a hitter eontro- that the first part was chiefly compiled by Wolfgang 


versy between the learned Benchlin (q. v.) on the one 
hand, and a converted Jew named Pfefferkorn, and 
the Dominicans of Cologne (headed by llochstraten 
[q. v.], the inquisitor, and by Prior Ortuinus Gratius) 
on the other. The latter advocated the expulsion of 
all Jews from Germany, the burning of their books, 
and the forcible education of their children in the 
Christian religion. Benchlin, being asked for his 
opinion, advised that only the writings of the Jews 
against Christianity should be burned. The bishop of 
Spires declared in favor of Benchlin. Pope Leo X, 
who personally cared more about the friendship of the 
Humanists than about the Church, but who, as pope, 
dared not to offend the monks, delayed his decision. 
The Humanists now organized themselves everywhere 
into a league, and flooded Germany with hooks against 
the fanatical monks. Among these hooks, the Episto- 
he Obseurorum Virorum are the most celebrated. They 
successfully imitate the barbaric Latin of the monks. 
The types, which were of very poor quality, and 
; in ahhreviations^werc a studious imitation 


Angst and Crotus Bubinmis, and the second by Crotus 
Bubiamis, Ilutten, and rirkheimer; but Hamilton, in 
the article above cited, shows almost decisively that 
Ilutten, Crotus, and Buschins were the joint authors. 
A late writer, Chauflbur-Kestner ( Ulrich ren Uutten, 
translated bv A. Young), attributes the work exclu- 
sively to Ilutten (see British and For. Evang. Rei ieic, 
Oct/l8G7, p. 775). The EpisUlte have frequently been 
printed ; among the earlier editions, those of Frank- 
fort (1643), London (1710), and another London edition 
(without date), with nine pictures, are the best. There 
are modern editions by Dr. Munch (Lpz. 1827), bv Bo- 
termund (Ilanov. 1827), and by Boccking (Lpz. 1858). 
The London edition of 1710 is the- most elegant in 
form. It was edited by the learned Maittaire, who 
really believed it to he the genuine work of the monks, 
as did Steele, to whom Mattaire’s edition was dedica- 
ted, and who noticed it, as if genuine, in The Taller. 
This edition was reproduced by Clements, London, 
1742. The literary history of the Epistolee is very fully 
ivon in Sir W. Ilaniilb n’s article above referred to, 


abounding , 

of those used by Quentil of Cologne, the publisher of which criticizes Miineli’s edition with some severity, 
Pfefferkorn and the Dominicans. The name of Al- , Very full information on the Epistolee is given in the 


EPOCH 


EPISTOLx'E PRIEST. VIRORUM 2; 

three last-named editions. See, besides the authors j 
already cited, Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 111; Wetzer j 
u. Welte, Kirchen-Lcx . iii, 633. 

Epistolae Praestantium Virorum, a valuable 
collection of letters illustrating the history of the Ar- 
jninians and Remonstrants. Its full title is Pnestan- 
tium ac Evuditoruni virorum Epistolce Ecclesiastical et 
Theological varii argument i, inter quas eminent ece, qua 
a Jac. Arminio, Conr. Vorstio, Sim. Episcopio, Hug. 
Grotio, Casp. Barlaeo, conscripted sunt. (Amst. 1660, 8yo ; 
2d ed. Amst. 1684, fob). 

Epistolare (plur. - aria ), a term used in Biblical 
criticism (q. v.) to distinguish those IMS. Lectionaries 
(q. v.) or selections from the Greek Test, anciently 
employed in Church service that contained selections 
from the epistles only. See Manuscripts of the 
Bidle. 

Epistolarium. The office of the Holy Commu- 
nion was in the early ages of the Church contained in 
four volumes, viz. the Antiphoner, the Lectionary, the 
Books of the Gospels, and the Sacramentary. The 
second of these, the Lectionary , was the book of the 
epistles read at mass (L)u Cange, Glossarium , s. v. Lec- 
tionarius), generally called the Epistolarium , also Co- 
mes and Apostolus. — Procter, On the Book of Common 
Prayer , p. 1). 

Epitaphia (t 7 nrdcfna), funeral orations. It was 
usual in the early Church to make funeral orations 
(Xdyot hrucijceioi) in praise of those who had been 
distinguished during life by their virtues and merits. 
Several of these are extant, as that of Eusebius at the 
funeral of Constantine ; those of Ambrose on the deaths 
of Theodosius and Valentinian, and of his own brother 
Satyrus ; those of Gregory of Nazianzus upon his hi- 
ther, his brother Caasarius, and his sister Gorgonia; and 
that of Gregory of Nyssa upon the death of Melitus, 
bishop of Antioch. — Biddle, Christ. Antiq. bk. vii, ch. 
iii. 

Epoch. 1. The point of time, usually marked by 
some important event, from which a series of years, 
termed an cent, is computed or dated ; although 
“epoch” and “rera” are often used synonymously for 
either a chronological period or date in general (see 
Penny Cyclopedia, s. v. /Era). An sura properly so 
called the ancient Hebrews did not possess. Signal 
events seem to have been made use of as points from 
which to date. Moses, like Herodotus, reckoned by 
generations. The Exodus, as may be seen in Exod. 
xix, 1, and Num. xxxiii, 38, probably, also, the build- 
ing of the first Temple (1 Kings ix, 10; 2 Chron. iii, 
2), were employed as starting-points to aid in assign- 
ing events their position in historical succession. Also 
the destruction of the first Temple, or the beginning 
of the Babylonish captivity (in the summer of the year 
B.C. 586), and the liberation of the Jews from the Syr- 
ian yoke by the valor of the Maccabees (in the autumn 
of the year B.C. 143), were used as epochs from which 
time was reckoned. After the manner of other na- 
tions, the Hebrews computed time by the succession 
of their princes, as may be seen throughout the books 
of Kings and Chronicles. At a later period, and in 
the first book of the Maccabees, what is termed the 
Greek asra, or that of the Seleueidse, began to be em- 
ployed. This sera, which is also called the ara of the 
Syro-Maeedonians, commences from the year of Borne 
412, twelve years after the death of Alexander, and 
311 years and four months before the birth of our Sav- 
iour, the epoch of the first conquest of Selcueus Nica- 
tor in that part of the West which afterwards com- 
posed the immense empire of Syria (see Noris, Annus 
et epoeh i Syro- Macedon u m , Lips. 1696). The Julian 
year, formed of the Homan months, to which Syrian 
names were given, was used. The a?ra prevailed not 
only in the dominions of Seleucus, but among almost 
all the people of the Levant, where it still exists. The 
Jews did not abandon the use of this cera until within 


5 

the last 400 years. At present they date from the 
Creation, which they hold to have taken place 3760 
years and three months before the commencement of 
the Christian icra. In order to fix their new moons 
and years, as well as their feasts and festivals, they 
were obliged to make use of astronomical calculations 
and cycles. The first cycle they used for this purpose 
was one of 84 years, but this being discovered to he 
faulty, they had recourse to the Metonic cycle of 19 
years, which was established by the authority of rab- 
bi Hillel, prince of the Sanhedrim, about the year 360 
of the Christian sera. This they still use, and say it 
is to be observed till the coming of the Messiah. In- 
deed, some contend that their present practice of dat- 
ing from the Creation of the world is of great antiquity. 
Their year is limi-solar, consisting either of 12 or 13 
months each, and each month of 29 or 30 days ; for in 
the compass of the Metonic cycle there are 12 common 
years, consisting of 12 months, and seven intercalary 
years, consisting of 13 months, which are the third, 
sixth, eighth, eleventh, fourteenth, seventeenth, and 
nineteenth of the cycle. See Chronology. 

The birth of the Saviour of the world probably took 
place somewhat earlier than the date which is usually 
assigned to it. Usage, however, has long fixed the 
rera to which it gave rise, namely, the Christian cera, 
or the iera of the Incarnation, to begin on the 10th day 
of January, in the middle of the fourth year of the 
194th Olympiad, the 753d year of the building of 
Home, and in the 4714th of the Julian period. The 
use of the Christian a 3 ra was introduced in the sixth 
century; in France it was first employed in the sev- 
enth. About the eighth it was generally adopted; 
but considerable difference has existed not only in va- 
rious countries, hut even in the same place in the same 
country and at the same period, respecting the com- 
mencement of the year. Nor did the use of the icra 
become universal in Christendom till the fifteenth cen- 
tury. The Christian year consists of 3G5 days for 
three successive years, and of 366 in the fourth, which 
is termed leap-year. This computation subsisted for 
1000 years without alteration, and is still used by the 
Greek Church. The simplicity of this form has brought 
it into very general use, and it is customary for astron- 
omers and chronologists, in treating of ancient times, 
to date hack in the same order from its commence- 
ment. There is, unfortunately, a little ambiguity on 
this head, some persons reckoning the year immedi- 
ately before the birth of Christ as 1 B.C., and others 
noting it with 0, and the second year before Christ 
with 1, thus producing one year less than those who 
use the former notation. The first, however, is the 
usual mode. The Christian year, arranged as has 
been shown, was 11' 11" too long, an error which 
amounted to a day in nearly 129 years. Towards the 
end of the sixteenth century the time of celebrating 
the Church festivals had advanced ten days beyond 
the periods fixed by the Council of Nice in 325. It 
was, in consequence, ordered by a bull of Gregory 
XIII that the year 1582 should consist of only 355 
days, which was brought about by omitting ten days 
in the month of October, namely, from the 5th to the 
14th. And to prevent the recurrence of a like irreg- 
ularity, it was also ordered that in three centuries out 
of four the last year should be a common instead of a 
leap-year, as it would have been by the Julian Calen- 
dar. The year 1G00 remained a leap-year, but 1700, 
1800, and 1900 were to be common years. This 
amended mode of computing was called “ The New 
Stvle.” It was immediately adopted in all Catholic 
countries, but Protestants came to use it only gradu- 
ally. In England the reformed calendar was adopted 
in the }'ear 1752 by omitting eleven days, to which 
the difference between the styles then amounted. The 
alteration was effected in the month of September, the 
day which would have been the third being called tho 
fourteenth. See Vulgar /Era. 


EQUITIUS 


27G 


EQUIVOCATION 


The 
ef the princip: 


excellent 
to be un- 


follcwing summary shows the correspondence I This golden rule, says Dr. Watts, has many 

principal epochs, fvras, and periods with that properties in it. 1. It is a rule that is easy 

of the birth of Christ, or Christian osra. (A valuable derstood, and easy to be applied by the meanest and 
treatise on sEras of ancient and modern Times may be weakest understanding (Isa. xxxv, 8). 2. It is a very 


treatise 

found in the Companion to the Almanac , 1830.) Kitto, 
s. v. Chronology. See also ./Era. 

Commencement. I Abbrev. 


.•Eras. 


Greek year of the World 
Constantinpoli- S eceles. 

tan a-ra "( civil. . 

Alexandrian a?ra 

Kccles. tera of Antioch . . 

Julian period 

Mundane a?ra 

Jewish mundane jera... 

Jewish civil tera 

Hindu year of the World 
yEra of Abraham’s call. . 
1 Jestruction of Troy .... 
Up. of Solomon’s Temple 


iEra of the Olympiads 

Year of Rome 

JEra of N abonassar 

Ep. of Daniel’s 70 weeks. 
Metonic cycle 

Calippic period | 

Philippean tvra 

8vro-M acedonian a?ra. . . 

Tyrian tera 

^idonian tera 

Hindu tera of Vicrama-1 

ditya j 

Ctesarean tera of Antioch 

Julian tera 

Spanish tera 

./Era of Actium 

Actcan tera in Egypt . . . 

Augustan tera 

Pontifical indiction 

Indie, of Constantinople. 


Vulgar Christian tera. . . 
Destruction of Jerusalem 
Hindu tera of Suhvana. . 
./Era of the Maccabees. . 

./Era of Diocletian 

./Era of Ascension 

./Era of Martyrs 

./Era of Armenians 

Year of the Hegira 

Persian tera of Yezdegird 


550$, Sept. 1. 

5508, Mar. 21 or Ap. 1. 
5508, Sept. 1. 

5502, Aug. 29. 

5402, $ept. 1. 

4713, Jan. 1. 

400S, Oct. 

3701, vern. equinox. 
37GI, Oct. 

3102. 

•2015, Oct. 

1184, June 12 or 24. 
1015, May. 

770, n. moon of sum- 
mer solstice. 
753, April 21. 

747. Feb. 20. 

45S, vern. equinox. 
432, July 15. 

330, n. moon of sum- 
mer solstice, 
323, June. 

312, Sept. 1. 

125, Oct. 19. 

110, Oct. 

57. 

43, Sept. 1. 

45, Jan. 1. 

3$, Jan. 1. 

80, Jan. 1. 

30, Sept. 1. 

27, Eeb. 14. 

3, Dec. 25 or Jan. 1. 
3, Sept. 1. 

AD. 

1, Jan. 1. 

09, Sept. 1. 


100, Nov. 24. 
2S 1, Sept. 1 7. 
295, Nov. 12. 
303, Feb. 23. 
552, July 7. 
022, July 10. 
032, June 10. 


A. M. Gr. 

A. M. Const. 

A. M. Const. 

A. M. Al. 

A. M. Ant. 

J. P. 

A. M. 

A. M. Jud. 

A. M. Jud. 
Calivuga. 

.E. Abr. 

JE. Troj. 

JE. Tempi. 

| Olymp. 

a. r. c. 

JE. Nab. 

a :. 7o w. 

Met. Cyc. 
j- Cal. Per. 

riS. Phil. 

„E. Selene. 

JE. Tvr. 

M. Sid. 

/E.Yicr. 

Ctes. JEr. Ant. 
JE. Jul. 
yE. Hisp. 

JE. Act. 
uE. Act. 

^E. Aug. 

Pont. lnd. 

Ind. Const. 

A. D. 

Exc. Hier. 
Saca. 
ri'. Macc. 

JE. Diocl. 

JE. A sc. 

,E. Mart. 

JE. Arm. 

A. II. 

JE. Pers. 


short rule, and easy to be remembered : the weakest 
memory can retain it ; and the meanest of mankind 
may carry this about with them, and have it ready 
upon all occasions. 8. This excellent precept carries 
greater evidence to the conscience, and a stronger de- 
gree of conviction in it, than any other rule of moral 
virtue. 4. It is particularly fitted for practice, because 
it includes in it a powerful motive to stir us up to do 
what it enjoins. 5. It is such a rule as, if well ap- 
plied, will almost always secure our neighbor from in- 
jury, and secure us from guilt if we should chance to 
hurt him. 0. It is a rule as much fitted to awaken us 
to sincere repentance upon the transgression of it as it 
is to direct us to our present dutj’'. 7. It is a most ex- 
tensive rule, with regard to all the stations, ranks, 
and characters of mankind, for it is perfectly suited to 
them all. 8. It is a most comprehensive rule with 
i regard to all the actions and duties that concern our 
neighbors. It teaches us to regulate our temper and 
behavior, and promote tenderness, benevolence, gen- 
1 tleness, etc. 9. It is also a rule of the highest pru- 
j deuce with regard to ourselves, and promotes our own 
interest in the best manner. 10. This rule is fitted to 
make the whole world as happy as the present state 
of things will admit. Sec AVatts, Sermons, serin. 33, 
vol. i ; Evans, Sermons , serin. 28.” — Buck, Theol. Diet. 
s. v. See Ethics. 

Equivocation “( aque , voeo , to use one word in 
different senses). ‘ How absolute the knave is ! We 
must speak by the card, or equivocation will undo us’ 
(. Hamlet , act v, scene 1 ). In morals, to equivocate is 
to offend against the truth by using language of double 
meaning, in one sense, with the intention of its being 
understood in another — or in either sense according to 
circumstances. The ancient oracles gave responses 
of ambiguous meaning. Aio , tc, yEacide , Romanos 
rincere jwsse may mean cither, ‘ I say that thou, O 
descendant of ./Eaciis, canst conquer the 15 mans, ’ or 
4 1 say that the Homans can conquer tliee, O descend- 
ant of j-Eacus.’ Latronem Pit rum occidisse may mean 
‘a robber slew Peter,’ or 4 Fetcr slew a robber.’ Ed- 
icardvm oeeidtre nolite time re bonum est. The message 


2. The term epoch is used by modern writers to 

denote “critical junctures in the development of his- 
, xi • i r „ „ i' formo ,i penned by Adam Orleton, bishop of Hereford, and sent 

torv, the signals of a new creation; hence termed J , , . « , 4 e . . : . , 

’ ' i „ „ r hv queen Isabella to the jailers of her husband, Ed- 

pauses or resting-places for “ Jiei , vritt( . n J without punctuation the 

\\ hat exists at the epoch in the germ is developed to . . , , ° , 1 ’ 

, . , 1 , i words might be written two wavs: with a comma 

a more advanced stage, and thus afterwards becomes ,, v-i i tA i ;n 

n • 7 n'l j. i x .i r + • u 1/lo i after tuner e, tliev would mean, 1 Edward, to kill fear 

the Period. llie former denotes the fountain-head, ’ , . * , ,, , .. 

i xx xi x , „ , „ ’ not, the deed is good; but with it after noute , the 

the latter the stream; their limits are where a new' . . . , , \ i i -n . , e \ 

r .. ,, .’ . , „ meaning would he, ‘Edward kill not, to fear the deed 

form ot culture again appears m an epoch. I he . TT L - , 

i . x i ... 1*11 x x- is good. Henry Garnet, who was tried for Ins partic- 

epoclis arc either critical and destructive, or creative I . h Tn , \ . 

1 , . • XT , ir . „ /• ; on ipation in the (.unpowder Plot, thus expressed lnm- 

and organizing.” — Neander, Hist, of Dogmas, i, 2 U. * . , \ Ar , OA r ^ 

° ® J J j pelt in a paper dated March 20, IGOo-C : Concerning 

Equitius, a lay abbot of many monasteries, both , quivocation, this is inv 0 ]qnion: in moral affairs, and 
male and female, in the province of Valeria, who lived in t]ie C011)in0n intercourse of life, when the truth is 
in the 6 th century. The year both of his birth and as p e( ] among friends, it is not lawful to use equivoca- 
ted are unknown. lie had not taken orders, but ^ for tbat xv0lild cause great mischief in society ; 
was nevertheless very active in preaching. He was w i Je refore. in such cases, there is no place for cquivo- 
therefore denounced at Home, and the pope summoned , ca ^ ortt p )Ut ; n c . ise s where it becomes neccssarv to 
him before his tribunal, but the great and general rep- j ;m indiv idual for his defense, or for avoiding any in- 
u tat ion of Equitius induced the pope to dismiss the justice or loss, for obtaining any important advantage, 
case. Equitius led a very ascetic life, ami is said to w jtii 0U t danger or mischief to any other person, then 
have always, during his many travels, carried the Ili- equivocation is law ful’ (Jardine, Gunpowder Plot , p. 
ble with him. According to Baronins, pope Gregory j 2 ; 3 :>). l)r. Johnson would not allow his servant to say 
I was a monk according to the rule of St. Equitius, but ])C was not at llomc M . hen he rca n v was . ‘A servant’s 
this is denied by other writers. —Herzog, Real-Encykl. gtr5ct regar q f or truth,’ said he ,* 4 must be weakened 
iv, 113 ; \\ etzer u.Melte, Kirchen -Lex ikon, iii, CoS. Ry such a jiractice. A philosopher may know that it 
(A. J. S.) j s merely a form of denial, but few servants are such 

Equity 44 is that exact rule of righteousness or jus- nice distinguishes. If I accustom a servant to tell a 
ticc which is to be observed between man and man. lie for me, have 1 not reason to apprehend that lie w ill 
Our Lord beautifully and comprehensively expresses tell many lies for himself V (Boswell, Letters, p. 32.) 
it in these words: ‘All things whatsoever ye would There maybe equivocation in sound as well as in sense, 
that men should do unto you, do ye even so to thorn, It is told that the queen of George III asked one of 
for this is the law r and the prophets’ (Matt, vii, 12). , the dignitaries of the Church if ladies might knot on 


ER 


277 


ERASMUS 


Sunday. His reply was, Ladies may not; which, in | 
so far as sound goes, is equivocal .” — Fleming, Vocabu- j 
lanj of Philosophy , s. v. 

Er (Heb. id. 13, watchful; Sept, and N. T. "Hp, 
Vulg. Her.'), the name of three men. See also Eri. 

1. The oldest son of the patriarch Jiulah by Bath- 
Shuali (daughter of Shnah), a Canaanitess. His wife 
was Tamar, but he had no issue, and his widow even- 
tually became the mother of Pharez and Zarah by 
Judah. Er “was wicked [?"), a paronomasia of *1 ?] 
in the sight of the Lord; and the Lord slew him” 
(Gen. xxxviii, 3-7 ; Num. xxvi, 19). B.C. cir. 1896. 
It does not appear what the nature of his sin was; 
but, from his Canaanitish birth on the mother’s side, 
it was probably connected with the abominable idola- 
tries of Canaan. 

2 . A “son” of Shelali (Judah’s son), and “father” 
of Lecah (1 Cliron. iv, 21). B.C. prob. ante 1618. 

3 . Son of Jose and father of Elmodan, in Christ’s 
genealogy, of David’s private line prior to Salathiel 
(Luke iii, 28). B.C. cir. 725. 

Era. See A£ua. 

Erakim. See Talmud. 

E'ran (Ileb. Eran , watchful; Sept. ’ Eosv , 
appar. reading ‘p~, with the Samar, and Syr. ; Vulg. 
Heran ), son of Slmthelah (eldest son of Ephraim), and 
progenitor of the family of the Eranites (Num. xxvi, 
36). B.C. post 1856. The name does not occur in 
the genealogies of Ephraim in 1 Cliron. vii, 20-29, 
though a name, Eladaii (ver. 20) or Elead (ver. 21), 
is found which may be a corruption of it. 

E'ranite (Heb. with the art. ha-Erani , 

Sept. 6 ’Edfi't [like the Samar, and Syr. reading “J for 
-|], Vulg. Heranitcc , A. V. “the Eranites”), a patro- 
nymic designation of the descendants of the Ephraim- 
ite Eran (Num. xxvi, 36). 

Erasmus, Desiderius, was born at Botterdam, 
October 28, 1467 (1465). His father’s name was Ger- 
hard, his mother’s Margaretha; they were never mar- 
ried. The boy was called Gerhardus Gerhardi, which 
he changed into the name Desiderius Erasmus (prop- 
erly Erasmius), having the same meaning in Latin and 
Greek (amiable). The father went to Borne. Being 
informed there that Margaretha was dead, he entered j 
into orders ; but, finding her alive on his return, he J 
and she devoted themselves to the training of their I 
son. At six he was a chorister in the cathedral at 
Utrecht. At nine he was sent to school at Deventer, 
where he had for school-fellow a youth who afterwards 
became pope Adrian VI. He displayed so great tal- 
ent at Deventer that it was even then predicted that 
he would one day be the most learned man in Germa- 
ny. After the death of his parents, when he was under 
fourteen, his guardians determined to make a monk of 
him, in order, it is said, that they might secure his pat- 
rimony for themselves. He refused to enter the mo- 
nastic life ; hut his guardians placed him in the semi- 
nary at Herzogenbusch, where, as he says, he spent 
three useless and unhappy years. He was then put 
at the monastic house of Zion, near Delft, and finally 
he entered the Augustinian monastery of Emails, or 
Stein, near Gouda. Here, after sturdy resistance, he I 
entered on his novitiate in 1486. His life at Stein 
was unhappy, except so far as it was relieved by study, 
to which lie devoted all the time possible. His hatred 
of monkery increased with each year of his stay in the 
monastery. In 1491, the bishop of Cambray, desiring 
a capable Latinist as his secretary for a projected jour- 
ney to Rome, obtained permission for Erasmus to leave 
the convent. The journey did not come off, and Eras- 
mus (who was ordained priest in 1492) remained some 
years under the bishop of Cambray, who authorized 
him to proceed to Paris to continue his studies, instead 
of returning to the monastic life. At Paris, Eras- 1 


mus barely support- 
ed himself, by taking 
pupils, and he suffer- 
ed greatly from sick- 
ness and poverty. 

He afterwards attrib- 
uted his weakness of 
constitution to his 
wretched food and un- 
wholesome lodgings 
in Paris. After a 
short visit to Cam- 
bray and to Holland 
for his health, he re- 
turned to Paris, where 
his pension from the 
bishop failed, and he 
taught for his bread. 

Among his pupils was 
lord William Mount- 
joy, who ever after 
remained his friend 
and patron. For him 
he wrote the treatise 
De Ratioue conscribendi e pistol as. Mountjoy offered 
him a pension to accompany him to England. Eras- 
mus passed a year there (1498-9), chiefly at Lon- 
don, Oxford, and Cambridge, and became acquaint- 
ed with many Englishmen distinguished for piety 
and learning. At Oxford he studied in St. Mary’s 
College, and formed many connections which were 
afterwards of use to him. Among his special friends 
were Colet, Grocyn, Latimer, and the celebrated 
chancellor Thomas More. From England Erasmus 
returned to Paris, where he again supported him- 
self by pupils. In 1499 he returned to the Conti- 
nent, and spent his time chiefly in studying Greek, 
and in translating Greek authors into Latin. He 
had no fixed abode ; now he was in Paris, and again 
in the provinces of France or in Holland. The Ada - 
gia and the Enchiridion Militis Christiani were pub- 
lished between 1500 and 1504. He began his Bib- 
lical studies also about this time, publishing in 1505 a 
new edition of the Remarks of Laurentius Valla on the 
N. T. In 1505 he spent a short time in England, 
where he made the acquaintance of archbishop War- 
ham, to whom he dedicated his translation of the Hec- 
uba. In 150G he accomplished his long-cherished de- 
sire of visiting Italy, where lie succeeded in obtaining 
from pope Julius 11 a dispensation from his monastic 
vows. At Turin he was made D.D. (1506), and his 
time was divided between Bologna, Rome, Florence, 
and Padua, where he improved his knowledge of Greek 
under the instruction of the best Greek and Italian 
scholars. In 1507 he superintended, at Venice, a new 
edition of his Adar/ia, printed by the celebrated Aldus 
Manutius. “At Rome he met with a flattering recep- 
tion, and promises of high advancement; but, having 
engaged to return to England, he did so in 1510, in the 
expectation that the recent accession of Henry VIII, 
with whom he had for some time maintained a corre- 
spondence, would insure to him an honorable provis- 
ion.” On the journey he wrote the work which gave 
him his greatest celebrity for the time, the Encomium 
J Iorim (Panegyric on Folly), which he dedicated to 
Thomas More. He lived “for some time at Canu 
bridge, where he was appointed Lady Margaret pro* 
fessor (in divinity), and also lectured on Greek. His 
lodging was in 'Queen’s College, in the grounds of 
which Erasmus’s Walk is still shown. In 1509, at the 
request of Colet, he published Copia Verborum ac re- 
rum, long in use as a school-book. He accepted an 
invitation from the archduke, afterwards Charles V, 
and went to Brabant in 1514, with the office of coun- 
cillor, and a salary of 200 florins. After this we find 
him resident sometimes in the Netherlands, sometimes 
at Basel, where the great work in which he had been 



ERASMUS 


278 


ERASMUS 


many years engaged, the first edition of the New Tes- 
tament in Greek, was published in 151G, accompanied 
by a new' Latin translation. Some amusing specimens 
ot'tlie objections made to this undertaking by the ig- 
norant clergy will be found in his 1 Letters’ (vi, 2)’’ 
{Engl. Cyclop.'). It was dedicated to pope Leo X. His 
fame had by this time spread all over Europe ; he and 
Keuchlin were called the Eyes of Germany . From this 
period onward lie resided ckieHy at Basel, though his 
wandering habits were never entirely shaken off. The 
second edition of his N. T. appeared in 1519, and pre- 
fixed to it was his Ratio seu Methodus compendto perve- 
niendi ad reram Theologi an (also published separately, 
1522). In 1521 he published his Colloquia , “composed 
ostensibly to supply young persons with an easy 
school-book in the Latin language, and at the same 
time to teach them religion and morals. For the pur- 
pose of teaching the Latin language this little book 
seems peculiarly well adapted : it w as long used for 
this purpose in England. In these ‘ Colloquies,’ which 
are generally very amusing, Erasmus has made some 
of his smartest attacks on various superstitions of the 
Roman Catholic Church. On this account the book 
w’as prohibited” {Eng. Cyclop.). His Annotations in 
jV r . T. appeared at Basel (151G-22, many editions), and 
his Paraphrases in N. T. (1524, fol. ; Berlin, 1777-80, 3 I 
vols. fol.) The Paraphrases were so much esteemed 
in England that it w'as made the duty of every parish 
church, bv an order in council (1547), to possess a copy 
of the English translation (Loud. 1518, 2 vols. fol., by 
Udall, (’overdale, and others ; 2d edit. 1551). 

As Erasmus had decided to remain in the Church of 
Borne, his residence at Basel became an uneasy one 
when the Reformation got possession of that city. In 
1529 he removed to Freiburg, in Breisgan, -where he 
built a house with a view to permanent residence, but 
never liked it. His later years were embittered by 
literary and religious quarrels. His pecuniary affairs, 
however, which had always been embarrassed in his 
early years, -were now easy. In 1535 lie returned to 
Basel, intending, however, only a short stay before re- 
turning to his native land to die. He was soon taken 
ill, but recovered sufficiently to continue his literary 
labors, especially on his edit’on of Origen. He suf- 
fered from gravel ; an attack of dysentery supervened, 
and carried him oft' on the night of July 11-12 (O.S.), 
153G. lie left his property to the poor. 

The literary industry of Erasmus during bis whole 
life was prodigious. lie early imbibed a love for the 
ancient classics, and contributed largely to increase 
the taste for ancient culture hv his writings in praise 
of them, by his editions of classic authors, and by his 
attacks on the scholastic theology and on the igno- 
rance of the monks. “ lie worked incessantly in vari- 
ous brandies, and completed his works with great ra- 
pidity; he had not the patience to revise and polish 
them, and accordingly most of them were printed ex- 
actly as lie threw ihem out; but this very circum- 
stance rendered them universally acceptable; their 
great charm was that they communicated the trains 
of thought which passed through a rich, acute, witty, 
intrepid, and cultivated mind, just as they arose, and 
without any reservations. Who remarked the many 
errors which escaped him ? His manner of narrating, 
which still rivets the attention, then carried everyone 
away” (Ranke, Reformation , by Austin, bk. ii.ehap. i). 
II is Cireronianus is “an elegant and stinging satire on 
t lie folly of those pedants who, with a blind devotion, 
refused to use in their compositions any words or 
phrases not to lie found in Gieero. Erasmus’s own 
Latin style is clear and elegant; not always strictly 
classical, but like that of one who spoke and wrote 
Latin as readily as his mother tongue. II is ‘ Letters,’ j 
comprising those of many learned men to himself, form ( 
a most valuable, and amusing collection to those who i 
are interested in the manners and literary histories of 
the age in which the}' were written ; and several of 


1 them in particular are highly valuable to Englishmen 
as containing a picture of the manners of the English 
of that da}'” {Eng. Cyclop.). But, of all his writings, 
the only ones that are likely to retain a lasting place 
in literature are the Colloquies , and the Panegyric on 
Folly — writings of his comparative youth, and regarded 
by him rather as pastime. “ For neither as a wit nor 
as a theologian, nor perhaps even as a critic, docs Eras- 
mus rank among master intellects ; and in the other 
departments ofliterature no one has ventured to claim 
for him a very elevated station. His real glory is to 
have opened at once new channels of popular and of 
abstruse knowledge — to have guided the few, while he 
instructed the many — to have lived and written for 
noble ends — to have been surpassed by none in the 
compass of his learning, or the collective value of his 
works — and to have prepared the way for a mighty 
revolution, which it required moral qualities far loftier 
than his to accomplish. For the soul of this great 
man did not partake of the energy of his intellectual 
faculties. He repeatedly confesses that he had none 
of the spirit of a martyr, and the acknowledgment is 
made in the tone of sarcasm rather than in that of re- 
gret. Fie belonged to that class of actors on the scene 
of life who have always appeared as the harbingers of 
great social changes — men gifted with the power to 
discern and the hardihood to proclaim truths of which 
they want the courage to encounter the infallible re- 
sults; who outrun their generation in thought, but lag 
behind it in action ; players at the sport of reform so 
long as reform itself appears at an indefinite distance; 
more ostentations of their mental superiority than anx- 
ious for the well-being of mankind ; dreaming that the 
dark page of history may hereafter become a fairy tale, 
in which enchantment will bring to pass a glorious 
catastrophe, unbought by intervening strife, and ago- 
ny, and suffering; and therefore overwhelmed with 
alarm when the edifice begins to totter, of which their 
own hands have sapped the foundation. He was a re- 
former until the Reformation became a fearful reality; 
a jester at the bulwarks of the papacy until they be- 
gan to give way; a propagator of the Scriptures until 
men betook themselves to the study and the applica- 
tion of them ; depreciating the mere outward foims of 
religion until they had come to l.e estimated at their 
real value; in short, a learned, ingenious, benevolent, 
amiable, timid, irresolute man, who, bearing the re- 
sponsibility, resigned to others the glory of rescuing 
the human mind from the bondage of a thousand years. 
The distance between his career and that of Luther 
was therefore continually enlarging, until they at 
length moved in opposite directions, and met each oth- 
er with mutual animosity” {Edinburgh Review, Ixviii, 
302). 

The relations of Erasmus to the Reformation have 
been summarily stated in the paragraph just cited, 
lie was the literary precursor of the Reformation. His 
exegctical writings prepared the way for later exposi- 
tors, opened a new era in Biblical criticism, and also 
aided in giving the Bible its Protestant position as the 
rule of faith. II is satires upon the monks, upon the 
scholastic theology, and upon Church abuses general- 
ly, contributed largely to prepare the minds of literary 
men throughout Europe for a rupture with Rome. He 
taught, in anticipation of Protestantism, that Christian 
knowledge should be drawn from the original sources, 
viz. the Scriptures, which he said should lie translated 
into all tongues. In his Encomium Jforice, Folly is 
introduced as an interlocutor who “turns into ridicule 
the labyrinth of dialectic in which theologians have 
lost themselves, the syllogisms with which they labor 
to sustain the Church as Atlas does the heavens, the 
intolerant zeal with which the}- persecute every differ- 
ence of opinion. She then comes to the ignorance, 
the dirt, the strange and ludicrous pursuits of the 
monks, their barbarous and objurgatory style of preach- 
ing ; she attacks the bishops, who are more solicitous 


ERASMUS 


279 


ERASTUS 


for gold than for the safety of souls ; who think they 
do enough if they dress themselves in theatrical cos- 
tume, and under the name of the most reverend, most 
holy, and most blessed fathers in God, pronounce a 
blessing or a curse ; and, lastly, she boldly assails the 
court of Rome and the pope himself, who, she says, 
takes only the pleasures of his station, and leaves its 
duties to St. Peter and St. Paul. Among the curious 
wood-cuts, after the marginal drawings of Hans Hol- 
bein, with which the book was adorned, the pope ap- 
pears with his triple crown. It produced an indescrib- 
able effect: twenty-seven editions appeared even dur- 
ing the lifetime of Erasmus ; it was translated into all 


(Sept. 1524). Luther replied with liis usual bitterness 
in his De Servo Arbitrio (Dec. 1525). Erasmus replied 
in like coin in his IJyperaspistes (1526). Thus the re- 
nowned Erasmus now passed over into the ranks of 
the enemies of the Reformation, though he did not 
cease to recommend conciliatory measures towards it” 
(Gieseler, l. c.). 

The writings of Erasmus were collected and pub- 
lished in 1510—11 (9 vols. fob), and also by Clericus 
(Leclerc), under the title Des. Erasmi Opera Omnia , 

| emendatoria el anctiora , etc. (L. lbit. 1703-6, 10 vols. 
in 11, fol). lie edited many of the- fathers, viz. Origen, 
Irenreus, Cyprian, Augustine, Chrysostom, Laetantius, 


fond of ease, to devote himself to a certain strife with 
very uncertain issues. Moreover, he never had pro- 
found religions convictions or experience. The monks, 
nevertheless, were right to a certain extent in their 
saying that “ Erasmus laid the egg; Luther hatched 
it.” At first Erasmus regarded Luther with favor as 
a coadjutor in his attacks upon tha ignorance of the 
monks, and in his plans for the reformation of litera- 
ture. Rut Luther saw the weakness and spiritual 
poverty of Erasmus, and expressed his fears in letters 
to Spilatin and Lange as early as 1517 ; while Eras- 
mus, in letters to Zwingle, deprecated the haste and 
vehemence of Luther. In 1519 (March 28) Luther 
wrote a friendly letter to Erasmus, who says in reply 
(April 30): “ I hold myself aloof from the controver- 
sies of the times to devote my whole strength to liter- 
ature. After all, more is to be gained by moderation 
than by passion; so Christ conquered the world. It 
is better to write against those who have abused the 
authority of the papacy than against individual popes.” 
In 1520, Frederick, elector of Saxony, meeting Eras- 
mus at Cologne, asked his opinion of Luther; his repty 
was, Lutheran peecavit in diiobus, nempe qnoil tetigit co - 
ronam pon'ificis et venires monaehorum : “Luther has 
committed two blunders; he Ins ventured to touch 


languages, and greatly contributed to conlirm the age j and translations of selections from them are given in 
in its anticlerical dispositions” (Ranke, 1. c.). Rut 1 his Opera . The separate editions of his more popular 
the personal character of Erasmus was not fitted for-j works (the Encomium, Adugia , Lolloguia, etc.) arc very 
such storms as those of the Reformation. Intellectu- 1 numerous. There arc English versions of the follow- 
all v, he was too many-sided and too undecided ; mor- j ing: Panegyric upon Folly (two translations: one by 
ally, he was of too flaccid a fibre, too timid, and too | Chaloner, the other by Kcnnct ; often printed) ; Colb- 

quies (1671, and often, especially in selections); En- 
chiridion Militis, by W. de Worde (1533, lfimo, and 
often); Christian'' s Manual (from the Enchiridion Mil- 
itis , London, 1816, 8vo) ; Ecclesiastes , or the Preacher 
(chiefly from Erasmus, London, 1797, small 8vo) ; De 
Contemptu Mundi (Lond. 1533, lOmo) ; De Dnmensa Dei 
Misericordia (1533, and often). Many of Erasmus’s 
smaller tracts were also translated. There arc several 
biographies of Erasmus (none very good), viz. Beatus 
Rhenanus, in Erasmi Opera , tom. i (1540); Leclerc’s, 
in vol. i of Erasmi Opera (1703); Merula, Vita Erasmi 
(Leyden, 1607, 4to) ; Knight, Life of Erasmus (London, 
1726, 12mo) ; Burigny, Vie d'Erasme (Par. 1757, 2 vols. 
12mo); Jortin, Life of Erasmus (Lond. 1758, best ed. 
1808, 3 vols. 8 vo ; abridged by Laycey, London, 1805, 
8vo) ; IIcss, Leben des Erasmus (Zurich, 1790); But- 
ler, Life of Erasmus (London, 1825, 8vo) ; Nisard, in 
Etudes sur la Renaissance (Par. 1855); Muller, Leben 
des Erasmus (Hamb. 1828, 8vo; reviewed by Ulhm.nn, 
Studlen u. Krit . 1829, p. 1) ; Glasius, On Erasmus as 
Church Reformer (a crowned prize-essay in the Dutch 
language,* The Hague, 1850). See also Bayle, Die - 
tionary (s. v. Erasmus); Dupin, Auteurs EccUs . tom. 
xiii ; Waddington, History of the Reformation (London, 
1841), cli. xxiii ; Merle d’Aubigne, History of the Ref- 


the crown of the pope and the bellies of the monks ... 1 ormation , vol. i; Iloefer, Xouv. JJiigr. Generate, xvi, 
but his language is too violent,” etc. He expressed 207 ; Hallam, History of Literature (Harper’s ed.), i, 
similar cautions in a letter to Justus Jonas at the time 134 sq. ; Mackintosh, Miscellaneous IPor/rs (London, 
of the Diet of Worms (1521). The earnest Ulrich von 1851), i, 190 sq. ; Chris f . Examiner , xlix, 80 ; Christian 
Ilutten sought to draw Erasmus openly to the Protes- Revie/r, April, 1858 ; Quart. Review , 1859, art. i ; Theol. 
taut side, but in vain. In 1522 Hutten published ail j Quartad sehrift , 1859, p. 531 ; Bibliotheca Sacra . xix, 
Erpostul itio cum Erasmo, abounding in bitter invec- | 106 ; Brit, and For. Ev. Review, July, 1867, p. 517 ; II. 
tive, to which Erasmus replied in Spong'a adversus Rogers, in Good Words , Feb. 1868. 


JIutteni aspergines (Basel, 1523) (see Gieseler, Church 
History , ed.by Smith, iv, § 3). Luther is said to have j 
condemned both these pamphlets as disgraceful. Lu- 


Erastianism, the title generally given to “that 
system ‘ which would rest the government of the 
Church spiritual as well as civil altogether in the 


ther wrote (1524) to Erasmus an earnest letter, urging . . 1 , T ,V , f f r m 

him hJ.i tn vp- Ohnstiun magistrate. I his, howc\ei, was fai fiom 


cli by your wit anu your eloquence ; ... i inv „ . 

J A., ... J like principles lor centuries before he was bom; the 

re not the disposition and the cour- * . * „ , , . 7 • , r i,: c 

71 . 1 ri , . pecuharitv ot Erastus s teaching lay lathci m his le- 

vouhl have 3*011 serve God in vour ' . ,, J . . . c . ,, . 

a .,1.1 fusing the right of excommunication to the Christum 


him, if I10. would not join the Reformers, at least to re- 
frain from open opposition. “You might, indeed, 
have aided us much b}* - 3'our wit and } r oiir eloquence 
but, since 3*011 hav 
age for this, we w 
own w.13*. Onl} r we feared, lest our adversaries should 
entice 3*011 to write against ns, and that necessit3 r 
should compel us to oppose } r ou to 3*our face. If you 
cannot, dear Erasmus, assert our opinions, be pers mul- 
ed to let them alone, and treat of subjects more suited 
to 3*our taste” ( Bib’iolh . Sacra, 1862, p. 129). “ From 

this time Erasmus complains incessantl} r of the hostil- 
ifcv of the Evangelicals. The haught}” stvle in which 
Luther offered him peace (in the letter above cited) 
could only have the effect upon that ambitions man of 
giving additional weight to the request which reached 
him at the same time from England, that he would 
take revenge upon Luther for his attack upon the roval 
author (llcniy VIII). And so, to assail the formida- 
ble Luther in the weakest part of his theological s^'s- 


being an invention of Erastus, since in every kingdom 
of Europe the Roman claims had been resisted on the 


Church’ (see Oxf. Hooker, E l. Pref. p. lviii) ’ (E len, 
Churchmans Dictionary, s. v.). Hardwick proposes 
“ Byzantinism” as the proper title for the theor\* 
named instead of “ Erastianism” ( History of the Refor- 
mation, chap, viii, p. 356). Sec also Nichols, Anec- 
dotes of Bowyer (London, 1782, Ito), p. 71 ; Pretyman, 
The Church of England and Erastianism (Lond. 1851); 
Hagenbach, History cf Doctrines (Smith’s ed.), ii, 299; 
Cunningham, Historical Theology, ii, 569: Ornie, Life 
and Times of Barter, i, 71; Christian Review , viii, 
579; and the* articles Cmmcii; Discipline; Eccle- 
siastical Polity; Erastus, Thomas. 

Eras'tus ("Enr/fxror, beloved , an old Grecian name, 
Diog. Lacrt. iii, 31). a Corinthian, and one of Paul’s 


tern, Erasmus wrote his treatise De Libero Arbitrio l disciples, whose salutations he sends from Corinth to 


ERASTUS 


280 


ERECH 


the Church at Rome as those of u the chamberlain (q. 1 
v.) of the city” of Corinth (Rom. xvi, 23). The -word 
so rendered ( oiKoropoc , Yulg. arcarius ) denotes the 
city treasurer or steward (Suicer, Tliesaur. ii, 464; see 
Flessa, De arcariis , Baruth. 1725-G, ii, § IX ; also Els- 
ner, Obs. ii, G8), an officer of great dignity in ancient 
times (comp. Josephus, Ant. vii, 8, 2) ; so that the con- j 
version of such a man to the faith of the Gospel was j 
a proof of the wonderful success of the apostle’s labors 
in that city. Wo find Erastns with l’aul at Ephesus 
as one of his attendants or deacons (oi t haKovovvrtg 
ai'T(p), whence he was sent, along with Timothy, into 
Macedonia, while the apostle himself remained in Asia 
(Aets xix, 22), A.D. 51. They were both with the 
apostle at Corinth when lie "wrote, as above, from that 
city to the Romans, A.D. 55; and at a subsequent pe- 
riod (A.D. 04) Erastus w'as still at Corinth (2 Tim. iv, 
20), which would seem to have been the usual place of 
his abode (tftuvt). According to the traditions of the | 
Greek Church (Menol. Greecum , i, 179), he was first 
aconomus to the Church at Jerusalem, and afterwards 
bishop of Paneas, and died a natural death. Many 
critrics, however (Grotius, Kype, Kuinol, De Wette, i 
Winer, etc.), regard the Corinthian Erastus as a dif- 
ferent person from Paul’s companion, on the ground 
that the official duties of the former would not allow 
such an absence from the city (Meander, Planting and 
Training , i, 892, note), or that, if he W'as with Paul at 
Ephesus, we should be compelled to assume that he is 
mentioned in the epistle to the Romans by the title of 
an office which he had once held and afterwards re- 
signed (Meyer, Kommentar. in loc.). 

Erastus, Thomas (properly Lieber or Liebler, 
which he put into the Greek form, Erastus), was born 
at Baden, in Switzerland (according to another ac- 
count, at Auggen, in Baden-Durlach), Sept. 7, 1524. 
He studied divinity and philosophy at Basel, and after- 
ward at Pavia and Bologna, where he graduated 51. D. 
In 1558 he became physician to the prince of Henne- 
berg. The elector palatine, Frederick III, also ap- 
pointed him first physician and professor of medicine 
in the University of Heidelberg. In 1560 and 1504 
he attended the conferences of Lutheran and Reformed 
divines at Heidelberg and Maulbronn on the Lord's 
Supper, and vigorously maintained the Zuinglian 
view’. He maintained the same doctrine in a treatise 
I)e Ccena Domini (15G5; transl. by Shute, Lond. 1578, 
lGmo). He was charged with Socinianism, but with- 
out just ground. But his name is chiefly preserved 
for his views on Church authority and excommunica- 
tion. ‘‘A sort of fanaticism in favor of the use of 
ecclesiastical censures and punishments had been in- 
troduced bv Olevianus, a refugee from Treves, and 
by several fugitives from the cruelties of the duke 
of Alva in the Low Countries, and had spread among 
the Protestants of the Palatinate. Erastus termed it 
‘febris excommunicatoria,’ and thought it an unwise 
policy for the Protestants, surrounded by their ene- 
mies, to be zealous in cutting off members from their 
own communion. He examined the principles and 
Biblical authority of ecclesiastical censures, and car- 
ried on a controversy in which he was violently op- 
posed by Dathenus, and more mildly by his friend 
Beza. This controversy would have probably died as 
a local dispute had it not been revived by Castelvetro, 
who had married the widow of Erastus, publishing 
from his papers the theses called Explicatio Queestionis 
gravissimrr de E room m u nica tione, which bears to have 
been w ritten in 15G8, and was first published in 1589. 
The general principle adopted by Erastus is, that ec- 
clesiastical censures and other inflictions are not the 
proper method of punishing crimes, but that the ad- 
ministration of the penal law, and of the law for com- 
pelling performances of civil obligations, should rest 
with the temporal magistrate. He held tljat the proper 
ground on which a person could be prohibited from re- 
ceiving the ordinances of a church — such as the sacra- 


ment or communion of the Lord’s Supper — w'as not 
vice or immorality, but a difference in theological 
opinion with the church from which he sought the 
privilege. The church was to decide who -were its 
members, and thereby entitled to partake in its privi- 
leges, but was not entitled to take upon itself the pun- 
ishment of offences by withholding these privileges, or 
by inflicting any other punishments on the ground of 
moral misconduct. Few authors so often referred to 
have been so little read as Erastus. The original 
theses are very rare. An English translation w*as 
published in 1GG9, and W'as re-edited by the Rev. Rob- 
ert Lee in 1845. By some inscrutable exaggeration, 
it had become the popular view' of the doctrines of 
Erastus that liis leading principle w'as to maintain the 
authority of the civil magistrate over the conscience, 
and to subject all ecclesiastical bodies to his direction 
and control, both in their doctrine and their discipline. 
In the discussions in the Church of Scotland, of w hich 
the result was the secession of a large body of the cler- 
gy and people because it was found that the Church 
could not make a law to nullify the operation of la}” 
patronage, those who maintained within the Church 
the principle that it had no such power were called 
Erast inns as a term of reproach. As in all cases where 
such words as Socinian, Arian, Antinoiuian, etc., are 
used in polemical debates, the party rejected with dis- 
dain the name thus applied to it. But it is singular 
that in the course of this dispute no one seems to have 
thought of explaining that the controversy in wdiich 
Erastus was engaged w’as about a totally different mat- 
ter, and that only a few general and very vague re- 
marks in his writings have given occasion for the sup- 
position that he must have held the principle that all 
ecclesiastical authorities are subordinate to the civil. 
Erastus died at Basel on the 31st Dec. -Jan. 1, 1583.” 
— English Cyclopecdia ; Wordsworth, Ecclt s. Biography ; 
Hoefcr, Xouv. hiog. Gcner. xxxi, 174; Herzog, lleab 
Encyklop. iv, 121. 

Erdt, Paulinus, a German Franciscan monk, pro- 
fessor of theology at the University of Freiburg, w'as 
born at Vertoch in 1787. lie displayed much zeal in 
opposing infidelity, both by his translations frem Eng- 
lish and French as well as his own works. The most 
important of his W'orks is Historic litterarke theoh gue 
rudiment a octodecim libris compnhcnsa , sen via ad his- 
torian i litterarium (heologitr rerelatee , adnotationibus lit- 
terariis iustructa (Augsburg, 1785, 4 vols. 8vo). Erdt 
died Dec. 1G, 1800. 

Erebinthi, Vieeage of (’E ptfiivSwv oIkoc , house 
of chick-peas ), a place on the line of Titus's wall of 
cireumvallation around Jerusalem during the final 
siege (Josephus, War , v, 12, 2); apparently on the 
brow of the hill opposite Mount Zion, on the west. See 
Jerusalem. Eusebius speaks of a village Eremintha 
(’E s of ph'Sa, Onomast. s. v.), situated, however, in the 
south of Juda?a, which Reland thinks ( Palast . p. 7GG) 
is the same as the Eetherebin (B(£$tpt/3(r) mentioned 
by Sozomen (Jlist. Eccl. ix, 27). 

E'rech (Ileb. E’rek, length; Sept.’Opyy;Vulg. 
A rack), one of the cities which formed the beginning 
of Nimrod's kingdom in the plain of Shinar (Gen. x, 
10). It is not said that he built these cities, but that 
he established his power over them ; from which we 
may conclude that they previously existed. It was 
probably also the city of the Arciievites, who were 
among those who were transplanted to Samaria by 
Asnapper (Ezra iv, 9). Until recently, the received 
opinion, following the authority of St. Ephrem, Je- 
rome, and the Targumists, identified Erech with Edes- 
sa or CalliihoC* (now' Urfah), a town in the north-west 
of Mesopotamia. This opinion is supported by You 
Bohlen ( Introd . /o Gen. p. 233), who connects the name 
Callirhoe with the Biblical Erech through the Syrian 
form Eurhok , suggesting the Greek word ngpoog. 
This identification is, however, untenable : Edessa -was 


EREMITE 


281 


ERXESTI 


probably built by Seleucus, and could not, therefore, 
have been in existence in Ezra's time (Ezra iv, 9), and 
the extent thus given to the land of Shinar presents a 
great objection. Erech must be sought in the neigh- 
borhood of Babylon. Gesenius ( Thesaur . p. 151), fol- 
lowing Bochart ( Plialeg , iv, 16), rather seeks the name 
in the "Apanica or Aracha of the old geographers, which 
was on the Tigris, upon the borders of Babylonia and 
Susiana (Ptolemy, vi, 3; Ammian. Marcell, xxxiii, 6, 
2G). This was probably the same city which Herodo- 
tus (i, 185; vi, 119) calls Ardericca (ApeiptKKa), i. e. 
Great Erech. Rosenmuller happily conjectures (Al- 
terth . I, ii, 25) that Erech probably lay nearer to Baby- 
lon than Aracca; and this has lately been confirmed 
by Col. Taylor, the British resident at Bagdad, who is 
disposed to find the site of the ancient Erech in the 
great mounds of primitive ruins, indifferently called 
Irak, Irka , Werka, and Senkerah , by the nomade Ar- 
abs, and sometimes El-Asayiah , “the place of pebbles” 
(Bonomi, Nineveh , p. 40). These mounds, which are 
now surrounded by the almost perpetual marshes and 
inundations of the lower Euphrates, lie some miles cast 
of that stream, about midway between the site of 
Babylon and its junction with the Tigris. This is 
doubtless the same as Orcho'e (’0 px ()i l) ^ miles south, 
and 42 east of Babylon (Ptolemy, vi, 20, 7), the mod- 
ern designations of the site bearing a considerable af- 
finity to both the original names. It is likewise prob- 
able that the Orcheni {'Op\ijvni) described by Strabo as 
an astronomical sect of the Chahlaians dwelling near 
Babylon (xxi, p, 739) ; in Ptolemy as a people of Ara- 
bia living near the Persian Gulf (v, 19, 2); and in 
Pliny as an agricultural population, who banked up 
the waters of the Euphrates, and compelled them to 
flow into the Tigris (vi, 27, 31), were really inhabit- 
ants of Orchoc and of the district surrounding it. 
This place appears to have been the necropolis of the 
Assj’rian kings, the whole neighborhood being covered 
with mounds, and strewed with the remains of bricks 
and coffins. Some of the bricks bear a monogram of 
“the moon,” and Col. liawlinson surmises that the 
name Erech may be nothing more than a form of 
the Ileb. name for that luminary (Athenaeum^ 1854, No. 
1377) ; but the orthography docs not sustain this con- 
jecture. Some have thought that the name of Erech 
may be preserved in that of Irak (/ra£-Arabi), which 
is given to the region inclosed by the two rivers in the 
lower part of their course. (See Chesney, Euphrates 
Expedition, i, 116, 117 ; Ainsworth, Researches , p. 178; 
Loftus, Chaldcea , p. 1G0 sq., where a full description is 
given.) For another Erech, probably in Palestine, see 
Arciii. 

Eremite (em/pop, desert ), one who lives in a wil- 
derness , or other solitude, for purposes of religious con- 
templation. The name was given in the ancient 
Church to those Christians who fled from the persecu- 
tors of Christianity into the wilderness, and there, iso- 
lated from all other men, gave themselves up to a life 
of rigid asceticism. Paul of Thebes is called the first 
eremite, and he soon found numerous followers. From 
the association of eremites the coenobites arose, who, 
in turn, form the transition to the monastic orders, 
which became in the Church of Rome and in the East- 
ern Church the most common form of organized ascet- 
icism. The name eremite remained, however, in use 
both for those who, in opposition to monastic associa- 
tion, preferred the eremitic life, and for a number of 
orders or branches of orders (orders of eremites), which 
either retained some customs in the life of the original 
eremites, or which made special provisions that their 
members could live in entire isolation from each other, 
meeting only for the celebration of divine service. 
Thus the proper name of the Augustinians (q. v.) was 
the Eremites of St. Augustine, although they became, 
in fact, a regular order. There were also eremites be- 
longing to the orders of Franciscans (q. v.), Camaldu- 


lenses (q. v.), Ccelestines (q. v.), Hieronymites (q. v.), 
and Servites (q. v.). Among the other orders of the 
eremites were the Eremites of St.John the Baptist (see 
John tiie Baptist, Eremites of), and the Eremites 
of St. Paul. — Wetzer mid Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iii, 501. 
See Paul, St., Eremites of. (A. J. S.) 

Erez. See Cedar. 

Erfurt, a city in the Prussian province of Saxo- 
ny, with, in 1864, 40,200 inhabitants. In 741, Erfurt 
became the seat of a bishop, but St. Adalar was the 
last as well as the first bishop, the see being united 
with that of Mentz. In 1378 the city received per- 
mission from the pope residing at Avignon (Clement 
VII) to establish a university, and the permission was 
in 1389 confirmed by the Roman pope Urban VI. In 
1392 the university was opened, being the fifth uni- 
versity of Germany. At the beginning of the 16th 
century, Luther was for some time one of its profess- 
ors. Subsequently its reputation dwindled down, and 
it was abolished in 1816. — Wetzer n. Welte, Kirchen- 
Lexikon , iii, GG1. (A. J. S.) 

Erhard, Bishop. Sec IIildulf. 

E'ri (Ileb. Eri\ watchful ), the fifth son of the 

patriarch Gad (Gen. xlvi, 16; Sept. ’Ai/foic, Vulg. 
Ileri ), and progenitor (Nura. xxvi, 1G ; Sept. ’Actl, 
Vulg. Iler) of the Erites (q. v.). B.C. 1856. 

Eric IX (according to some historians VIII), sur- 
named the Saint, a king of Sweden. He was the son 
of Jedward, a “good and rich yeoman,” as he is called 
in an old Swedish chronicle, and of Cecilia, the sister 
of king Eric Arsal. Having become king of Sweden, 
his chief endeavor was the Christianization of Sweden. 
He conquered southern Finland, and compelled the 
inhabitants to adopt the Christian religion. He also 
united Norway with Sweden. In the war against the 
Danish prince Magnus, he fell in a battle near the 
town of Upsala, May 18, 1160. — Hoefer, Nouv. Bioar. 
Gener. xvi, 243. (A. J. S.) 

Erigena. See Scotus Erigena. 

E'rite (Ileb. collect, with the art. ha-Eri , 

Sept, [appar. everywhere in this name reading 1 for 
“Q 6 'A On, Vulg. Ileritev , A.V. “the Erites”), a patro- 
nymic designation (Nuin. xxvi, 16) of the descendants 
of the Gadite Eiu (q. v.). 

Erizatsy (Sargis or Sergius), a learned Armeni- 
an bishop, born towards the middle of the 13tli cen- 
tury, at Eriza or Arzendjan, a city of Armenia. In 
1286, James I, patriarch of Sis, called him to his court, 
and made him his secretary. In 1291 he was conse- 
crated bishop of Arzendjan, and, a short time after, the 
king of the Armenians of Cilicia (llayton or Hathoum 
II) made him almoner of his palace. In 1306 he was 
present at the national council which was held at Sis, 
capital of Cilicia, and died a short time after. He 
wrote a treatise on The Hierarchy , and several other 
works, which remain in MS. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. 
Gener. xvi, 258. 

Erlangen, a city in Bavaria, with a population of 
10,900 inhabitants, mostly Protestant. It is the seat 
of one of three universities of Bavaria, with a Luther- 
an theological faculty. The University was founded 
in 1742 by the margrave Friedrich of Brandenlnirg- 
Baireuth for his residence, but in 1743 transferred to 
Erlangen. The University has in modern times been 
a chief seat of the Confessional party in the Lutheran 
Church. (A. J. S.) 

Ernesti, Johann August, an eminent critic and 
scholar, was born Aug. 4, 1707, at Tennstadt, in Thu- 
ringia. He completed his academical studies at Wit- 
tenberg and Leipsic. hi 1742 he became professor of 
ancient literature at Leipsic, and in 1758 doctor and 
professor of theology there. He held the two last- 
named professorships together till 1770, when he gave 
up the former to his nephew, August Wilhelm. IJ/i 


EROGE 


282 


ERSKINE 


died Sept. 11, 1781. Tie distinguished himself greatly 
by his philological and classical publications, and also 
by the new light which his theory of interpretation 
thiew upon the sacred Scriptures. He adopted from 
AVet stein the grammatico-historical method of interpre- i 
tat ion, and gave it general currency. Among the 1 
most important of his critical and philological writings I 
are Opuscula pkUologico-critica (Amstcr. 37G2, 8vo): — 
Opuscida omtoriit , o rat tones, prolusiunes et clogia (Levd. 
17G2 and 17G7, 8vo) : — .1 rchrrologla litteraria (Leips. 
J7GS and 1790, 8vo) :—Inltia doctrines solidioris (Leips. 
1730, 7th cd. 1783, 8vo). The style of this work gave 
to Ernesti the name of the Cicero of Germany. His 
most important work in the Geld of theology is his In- 
stltutlo interpret is Xovi Testamentl (Leips. 17G1, 8vo; 5th 
ed. 1809). This work first clearly set forth what is 
called the grammafico-historical method of interpreta- 
tion. It was translated by Terrot, and published in 
the Biblical Cabinet (Edinb. 1843, 2 vols. lGmo); there 
is also ail edition, with notes and appendix, by Moses 
Stuart (Andover, 1827, 12mo). Some valuable essays 
may be found in his Opuscida theologic t (1792, 8vo). 
He rendered great service to theological literature by 
the publication of the Neue theologische Bibliotheh (17 GO- 
1779, 34 vols.). His Lectiones Academical in Epistolam 
ad Ilebraos was published by G. J. Dindorf in 1815 
(Lips. 8vo). Ernesti's reputation as a classical scholar 
rests chiefly upon his excellent editions of Homer 
(Leips. 1759, 8vo), of Callimachus (Lcyd. 17G1, 2 vols. 
8vo), of Polybius (Leips. 17G3-G4, 3 vols. 8vo), of Xen- 
ophon, Aristotle, and of Cicero ( lb . 177G, 3d ed. 7 vols.), 
of Tacitus ( ib . 1772, 2 vols. 8vo) ; also of Suetonius, 
Aristophanes, etc. His Eulogy , by Augustus William 
Ernesti, was published at Leipsic (3781, 8vo). See 
Hagenbach, German Rationalism , trails!, by Gage, p. 
7G ; Teller, Ernesti’s YtrJienste um Theologie uml Re- 
ligion (Leips. 1783); Van Voorst, 0 ratio de J. A. Er- 
nestio (Lcyd. 1804); Hoofer, JYour. Biogr. Generate, xvi, 
29G; Kahilis, German Protestantism , p. 319. 

Eroge (’Epwy//), a place “ before the city” (71710 riyc 
ttoAewc) Jerusalem, according to Josephus (.!«<. ix, 10, 
4). where the mountain (Mt. of Olives) split asunder 
for a space of half a mile, filling the king’s gardens 
with the detritus of the avalanche : an account which 
is evidently an embellishment of the prophetical com- 
mentary (Zecli. xiv, 5) upon the earthquake (Amos i, 
3) on the occasion of Uzziah’s usurpation of the sacer- 
dotal functions (2 Cliron. xxvi, 3G-23). Schwarz in- 
geniously explains (Palest, p. 2G3 note) the name Eroge 
as a Grfecized transposition for Zeehariah’s expression 
gorge of my mountains (f gey-haray / , Sept. <pd- 

p«y£ opaun, Vulg. vallis montium eorum , A.V. “valley 
of the mountain”). For another identification, see 
En-rogel. 

Erpen, Thomas Van (Latin form EisrENius), a 
celebrated Orientalist, was born at Gorkum, Holland, 
September 7, 1584. lie studied theology at Leyden, 
where, under the guidance of.!. J. Sealigcr, he also de- 
voted himself particularly to the study of Oriental lan- 
guages. lie travelled in England, France, Italy, and 
Germany, everywhere enlarging his knowledge of Ori- 
ental literature; and in IG13 became professor of Ori- 
ental languages at Leyden. A second Hebrew chair 
in the university was founded expressly for him in 
1G19. “ Soon after this he was appointed Oriental in- 

terpreter to the government, in which capacity he read 
and wrote replies to all official documents coming from 
the East. Such was the elegance and purity of his 
Arabic, as written at this time, that it is said to have 
excited the admiration of t lie emperor of Morocco. 
Towards the close of his life tempting offers of honors 
and distinction came pouring in upon him from all 
parts of Europe; but lie was never prevailed upon to 
leave his native country, where, in the* midst of an 
eminent career, he died November 13,3G24. Although 
the present standard of Oriental knowledge in Europe 


is much in advance of that of Erpcn’s day, there is n« 
doubt that it was through him principally that Eastern, 
especially Arabic, studies have become what they arc. 
With hardly any better material than a few awkward- 
ly printed Arabic alphabets, he contrived to write his 
famous grammar (Grammatica Arabica , quinque libris 
methodice esrplicata , Leyden, 1GI3; recent edition by 
Michaclis, Gott. 3771), which for 200 years, till the 
time of Silvestre de Sacv, enjoyed an undisputed su- 
premacy ; and there are many who think his Rudi- 
menta unsurpassed, even at the present day, as a work 
for beginners. Among his other important works the 
best known is his Proverliorum Arabicorum Centuries 
Durr (Leyden, 1G14)” (Chambers, s. v.) ; Ilocfcr, Ni.uv. 
Blog. Generate , xvi, 308; Herzog , Real-Encyklop. xix, 
487. 

Error. “Knowledge being to be had onh r of visi- 
ble certain truth, error is not a fault of our knowledge, 
but a mistake of our judgment, giving assent to that 
which is true (Locke, Essay on Human Undent, bk. iv, 
cli. xx). 4 The true,’ said Bossuet, after Augustine, 
‘is that which is, the false is that which is not.’ To 
err is to fail of attaining to the true, which we do when 
we think that to be which is not, or think that not to 
be which is. Error is not in things themselves, but in 
the mind of him who errs, or judges not according to 
the truth. Our faculties, when employed within their 
proper sphere, are fitted to give us the knowledge of 
truth. We err by a wrong use of them. The causes 
of error are partly in objects of knowledge and partly 
in ourselves. As it is only the true and real which 
exists, it is only the true and real which can reveal it- 
self. But it may not reveal itself fully, and man, mis- 
taking a part for the whole, or partial evidence for 
complete evidence, falls into error. Hence it is that 
in all error there is some truth. To discover the rela- 
tion which this partial truth bears on the whole truth 
is to discover the origin of the error. The causes in 
ourselves which lead to error arise from wrong views 
of our faculties and of the conditions under which they 
operate. Indolence, precipitation, passion, custom, au- 
thority, and education may also contribute to lead ns 
into error (Bacon, Xoimn Organum , lib. i : Malebranche, 
Recherche de la Vend; Descartes, On Method; Locke, 
On Human Understand . bk. vi, c. xx).” — Fleming, Jo- 
cabulary of Philosophy, p. 1C6-1G7. 

Erskine, Ebenezer, an eminent and pious Scotch 
divine, founder of the “Secession Church.” lie was 
born in the prison of the Bass Bock, June 22, 1G80, 
and educated at the University of Edinburgh. He 
acted for some time as tutor and chaplain in the fam- 
ily of the carl of Rothes, and became a licentiate in 
, divinity in 1702. In 3703 he was chosen minister of 
Portmoak, in the shire of Kinross, and became a very 
popular preacher. He accepted a charge in Stirling 
in 1731. “Air. Erskine’s first difference with his col- 
leagues of the Church of Scotland was in his support 
of the principles of ‘the Marrow of Modem Divinity,’ 
a subject of great contention during the early part cf 
the 18th century. He was one of several clergymen 
who, in connection with this subject, were ‘rebuked 
and admonished’ by the General Assembly. The se- 
cession of the body, headed 1 y Air. Erskine, was occa- 
sioned by the operation of the act of queen Anne’s 
reign restoring lay patronage in the Church of Scot- 
land, and, though not in all respects technically the 
same, it was virtually on the same ground as the late 
| secession of ‘ The Free Church.’ The preshy teiv of 
Kinross, led by Erskine’s brother Ralph, had refused to 
induct a presentee forced on an objecting congregation 
by the law of patronage. In 1732, the General As- 
sembly enjoined the presbytery to receive the presen- 
tee. At the same time they passed an act of Assem- 
bly regulating inductions, which, as it tended to en- 
force the law of patronage, was offensive to Air, Er- 
I skine, and he preached against it. After some discus- 


ERSKINE 


283 


ESAR-HADDON 


siou, the General Assembly decided that he should be 
‘rebuked and admonished,’ confirming a decision of 
the inferior ecclesiastical courts. Against this decis- 
ion Mr. Erskine entered a 1 protest,’ in which he was 
joined by several of his brethren. He was afterwards 
suspended from his functions. The Assembly subse- 
quently endeavored to smooth the way for his restora- 
tion, but he declined to take advantage of it, and he 
and his friends, including his brother Ralph, formally 
seceded in 173G. When the Secession was divided into 
the two sects of Burghers and anti-Burghers, Mr. Er- 
skine and his brother were of the Burgher party. He 
died on the 2 2d of June, 175G. The Secession Church, 
reunited by the junction of the Burghers and anti- 
Burghers in 1S20, remained a distinct body till 1847, 
when a union being effected with the Relief Synod (a 
body which arose from Mr. Gillespie’s secession from 
the Established Church of Scotland in 1752), the ag- 
gregate body assumed the name of the United Pres- 
byterian Church” (English Cyclopaedia), Erskine bore 
a very high reputation as a scholar. Ilis writings are 
collected in The ic hole of Ebenezer Erskine , con- 

sisting of sermons and discourses on the most impor- 
tant and interesting subjects (Loud. 1799, 3 vols. 8vo). 
See Hetherington, Church of Scotland, ii, 297 sq. See 
Seceders; Scotland, Church of; United Pres- 
byterian Churuh. 

Erskins, John, D.D., an eminent Scotch divine, 
was born in Edinburgh, June 2, 1721, and was educated 
at the University of Edinburgh. Ilis father (author of 
the Institutes of the Laws of Scotland ) wished him to de- 
vote himself to law, but finally yielded to his son’s de- 
sire that he should study theology. At twenty he pub- 
lished ail essay on The Law of Xature sufficiently propa- 
gated to the Heathen World , aiming to show that the ig- 
norance and unbelief of the heathen is not due to want 
of evidence (Rom. i, 29). In 1743 he was licensed to 
preach by the presbytery of Dunblane, and in 1744 he 
became minister of Kirkintillock. In 1748, Mr. Er- 
skiue, and other evangelical clergymen of the Estab- 
lished Church, invited Whitefield into their pulpits. 
An animated discussion took place, in which Mr. Er- 
skine triumphantly defended himself. Such a course 
required courage at a time when the character and doc- 
trines of Whitefield, as well as his open-air preaching, 
were looked upon by ninny with suspicion or dislike. 
In the following year Mr. Erskine published An Essay 
intendel to promote the more frequent dispensation of the 
Lord's Supper. In 1753 he was translated to Culross, 
and in 1758 to New Greyfriars’ church, Edinburgh. 
Here he prepared his Theological Dissertations (Loud. 
17G5, 12 mo), including the two essays above mention- 
ed : one on the Covenant of Sinai, one on Saving Faith, 
and one on the Apostolic Churches, lie also edited a 
new edition of Hervey’s Theron and Asp is/o, with a 
preface against John Wesley, written with some bitter- 
ness, which gave rise to some letters between Erskine 
and Wesley, in which the latter appears to decided ad- 
vantage (Wesley, J Porto, N. York ed. vi, 125 sq., 744). 
In 17G9 he published anonymously a pamphlet under 
the title ^ Shall I go to war with my American breth- 
renV ’ to expose the impolicy of such a contest. On 
the outbreak of hostilities he republished it with his 
name, following it up with another, entitled Reflections 
on the Rise, Progress, and probable Consequences of the 
present Contentions with the Colonies, in which he urged 
the duty of the mother country resorting to concilia- 
tory measures. In 177G he issued a third pamphlet, 
under the title The Equity and Wisdom of the Govern- 
ment in the Measures that have occasioned'lhe American 
Revolt tried by the sacred Oracles. On this subject 
Erskine was one of the few clear-sighted men of the 
time in Great Britain. When nearly sixty he studied 
Dutch and German in order to read the Continental 
divines ; the fruit of these studies appeared in Sketches 
and Hints of Church History and theological Controver- 
sy, translated or abridged from foreign Writers (Edin- 


I burgh, 1790-97, 2 vols. 12mo). lie died January 19, 
j 1803. After his death appeared his Discourses (Edin- 
burgh, 1818, 2 vols. 12mo). — Jamieson, Religious Biog - 
raphy, p. 139; Jones, Christian Biograph y, p. 191.; Well- 
wood, Life of Erskine. 

Erskine, Ralph, brother of Ebenezer, was born 
at Monilaws, Northumberland, 1685, and was educated 
at the University of Edinburgh. In 1711 he became 
minister at Dunfermline. In 1734 lie joined his broth- 
er and others in their secession from the Church. See 
Seceders. He died 1752. He was a preacher of great 
popular abilities, devotional and zealous. His writ- 
ings are collected under the title Sermons and other 
practical lUor/s, consisting of above 150 sermons, be- 
sides his poetical pieces, to which is prefixed an ac- 
count of the author’s life and writings (Falkirk, 10 
vols. 8vo, 1794-9G). — Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographica, 
i, 1063. 

Erubim. See Talmud. 

Erythrian Sibyl. See Sibyl. 

Esa'ias (Rec. Text 'Hoatac, Laclim. with Codex B 
Yulg. Isairts, Cod. Amiat. Esuias ), the Grae- 
cized form, constantly used in the N. T. (Matt, iii, 3; 
iv, 14; viii, 17 ; xii. 17 ; xiii, 14; xv, 7 ; Mark vii, 6; 
Luke iii, 4; iv, 17 ; John i, 23; xii, 38, 39, 41; Acts 
viii, 28, 30 ; xxviii, 25 ; Rom. ix, 27, 29 ; x, 16, 20 ; xv, 
12) for Isaiaii (q. v.). Comp. Esay. 

E'sar-liad'don (Heb. Esav' -H addon' , 
perhaps akin with Pers. Atliro-dam, gift of fire ; Sept. 
’Atrop^nF [in Ezra ’Auapaofafa’J v. r. ’Aoapaddv, in 
Tob. i, 21, '^apxijcovog ; Josephus, Ant. x, 1, 5, ’ Aaoa- 
pa\6ccac), the son and successor of Sennacherib (2 
Kings xix, 37 ; Isa. xxxvii, 38). The date apparent- 
ly assigned by these passages is B.C. 712, but, as he 
seems to be the Asaradinus (^AactpHavoc) of Ftolemy’s 
C mon, whose reign bears date from B. C. G80, we may 
either suppose that the death of Sennacherib occurred 
some years after liis defeat before Jerusalem, or that 
an interregnum occurred before the accession of Esar- 
haddon. It has generally been thought that he was 
Sennacherib’s eldest son, and this seems to have been 
the view of Polyhistor, who made Sennacherib place a 
son, Asordanes, on the throne of Babylon during his 
own lifetime (ap. Enseb. Chron. Can. i, 5). The con- 
trary, however, appears by the inscriptions, which show 
the Babylonian viceroy — called s 1 sordanes by Polyhis- 
tor, but Aparanadius (Assaranadius ?) by Ptolemy — to 
have been a distinct person from Esar-haddon, who is 
called in cuneiform (q. v.) Asshur-akh-iddina (Kawlin- 
son, Herodotus , i, 386 sq.). Thus nothing is really 
known of Esar-haddon until his succession (B.C. cir. 
630; see Col. Rawlinson in the Lond. Athenaum, Aug. 
22, 1865), which seems to have followed quietly and 
without difficulty on the murder of his father and the 
flight of his guilty brothers (2 Kings xix, 37 ; Isa. 
xxxvii, 38). It may, perhaps, be concluded from this 
that he was at the death of his father the eldest son, 
Assaranadius, the Babylonian viceroy, having died 
previousl}\ It is impossible to fix tlie length of Esar- 
Iiaddon’s reign, or the order of the events which oc- 
curred in it. Little is known to us of his history but 
from his own records, and they have not come down 
to us in the shape of annals, but only in the form of a 
general summary (see them translated bj' H. F. Talbot, 
in the Jour, of Sac. Lit. April, 1859, p. 68-79). That 
he reigned thirteen years at Babylon is certain from 
the Canon of Ptolemy, and lie cannot have reigned a 
shorter time in Assyria. He may, however, have 
reigned longer, for it is not improbable that after a 
while he felt sufficiently secure of the affections of the 
Babylonians to re-establish the old system of vice- 
regal government in their country. Saosduchinus 
may have been set up as ruler of Babylon by his au- 
thority in B.C. 667, and he may have withdrawn to 
Nineveh, and continued to reign there for some timtf 


ESAR-IIADDON 


2S4 


ESAU 


longer. His many expeditions and his great works | 
seem to indicate, if not even to require, a reign of some 
considerable duration. It has been conjectured that 
he died about B.C. GOO, after occupying t lie throne for 
twenty years, lie appears to have been succeeded by 
his son Asshur-bani-pal, or Sardanapalus II, the prince 
for whom he had built a palace in his own lifetime. 
No farther mention is made of this monarch in Scrip- 
ture but that he settled certain colonists in Samaria 
(Ezra iv, 2). See Asxapper. 

Esar-haddon appears by his monuments to have 
been one of the most powerful, if not the most power- 
ful of all the Assyrian monareks. He carried his arms 
over all Asia between the Persian Gulf, the Armenian 
mountains, and the Mediterranean. Towards the east j 
he engaged in wars with Median tribes “of which his 
fathers had never heard the name ;” towards the west 
he extended his influence over Cilicia and Cyprus ; 
towards the south he claimed authority over Egypt 
and Ethiopia. In consequence of the disaffection of 
Babylon, and its frequent revolts from former Assyr- 
ian kings, Esar-haddon, having subdued the sons of 
Merodaeh-Baladan who headed the national party, in- 
troduced the new policy of substituting for the former 
government by viceroys a direct dependence upon the 
Assyrian crown, lie did not reduce Babylonia to a 
province, or attempt its actual absorption into the em- 
pire, but united it to his kingdom in the way that 
Hungary was, until 1848, united to Austria, by hold- 
ing both crowns himself, and residing now at one and 
now at the other capital. He is the only Assyrian 
monarch whom we find to have actually reigned at 
Babylon, where he built himself a palace, bricks from 
which have been recently recovered bearing his name. 
His Babylonian reign lasted thirteen years, from B.C. 
G80 to B. C. G67, and it was undoubtedly within this 
space of time that Manasseh, king of Judah, having 
been seized by his captains at Jerusalem on a charge 
of rebellion, was brought before the Assyrian monarch 
at Babylon (2 C'hron. xxxiii, 11), and detained for a 
time as prisoner there. This must therefore have 
been Esar-haddon, who, persuaded of his innocence, or 
excusing his guilt, eventually restored him to his 
throne (comp. ver. 13), thus giving a proof of clemency 
not very usual in an Oriental monarch. It seems to 
have been in a similar spirit that Esar-haddon, accord- 
ing to the inscriptions, gave a territory upon the Per- 
sian Gulf to a son of Merodaeh-Baladan, who submit- 
ted to his authority and became a refugee at his court. 
As a builder of great works Esar-haddon is particular- 
ly distinguished. Besides his palace at Babylon, which 
has already been mentioned, he built at least three 
others in different parts of his dominions, either for 
himself or his son, while in a single inscription he 
mentions the erection by his hands of no fewer than 
thirty temples in Assyria and Mesopotamia. His works 
appear to have possessed a peculiar magnificence. He 
describes his temples as “shining with silver and 
gold,” and boasts of his Nineveh palace that it was “a 
building such as the kings his fathers who went before 
him had never made.” The south-west palace at Nim- 
rod is the best preserved of his constructions. This 
building, which was excavated by Mr. Bayard, is re- 
markable for the peculiarity of its plan as well as 
for the scale on which it is constructed. It corre- 
sponds in its general design almost exactly with the 
palace of Solomon (1 Kings vii, 1 12), hilt is of larger 
dimensions, the great hall being 220 feet long by 100 
brand ^ La yard’s Nin. and Bab. p. 558, Harpers’ edit.), 
and the porch or antechamber 1G0 feet by GO. It had 
the usual adornment of winged bulls, colossal sphinxes, 
and sculptured slabs, but lias furnished less to our col- 
lections than many inferior buildings, from the cir- 
cumstance that it had originally been destroyed by 
fire, by which the stones and alabaster were split and 
ealcined. This is the more to be regretted as there is 
reason to believe that Phoenician and Greek artists 


took part in the ornamentation. — Smith, s. v. See 
Assyria. 

E'sau (Ileb. Esav', lb", hairy [see Gen. xxv, 25; 
his surname Edom was given him from the red pot- 
tage, Gen. xxv, 30] ; Sept, and N. T. 'Herat;), the eldest 
son of “ Isaac, Abraham’s son” (Gen. xxv, ID) by Re- 
bekah, “the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian, of Padan- 
aram, the sister to Laban the Syrian.” The marriage 
remaining for some time (about 19 years; comp, xxv, 
20, 26) unproductive, Isaac entreated Jehovah, and Re- 
bekali became pregnant. Led by peculiar feelings 
“to inquire of Jehovah,” she was informed that she 
should give birth to twins, whose fate would be as di- 
verse as their character, and, what in those days was 
stranger still, that the elder should serve the younger. 
On occasion of her delivery, the child that was born 
first was “red, all over like a hairy garment; and 
they called his name Esau.” Immediately afterwards 
Jacob was born. B.C. 2004. This was not the only 
remarkable circumstance connected with the birth of 
the infant. Even in the womb the twin brothers 
struggled together (xxv, 22). Esau was the first- 
born ; but, as he was issuing into life, Jacob’s hand 
grasped his heel. The bitter enmity of two brothers, 
and the increasing strife of two great nations, were 
thus foreshadowed (xxv, 23, 2G). From the special at- 
tention drawn to his hairy appearance, one would sup- 
pose that the name Esau ( ,1 :’:), or Esav, was intended 
to give expression to that quality. So have many 
I learned men in recent as well as former times held, 
though they are obliged to resort to the Arabic for the 
i etymological explanation ; a word very similar in Ara- 
bic, signifying hairy. The older Hebrew commenta- 
tors, however, derived it from the verb llw?, asald, to 
male, and explained the word as signifying “made,” 
“complete,” “full-grown” — viewing the hair as an 
indication of premature manly vigor. But the Jews 
of the present day seem more, disposed to fall in with 
the other derivation (for example, Itaphall in loco). 
The unusual covering of hair, which not only distin- 
guished Esau as a child, but kept pace with his growth, 
and in mature life gave his skin a kind of goat-like ap- 
pearance (Gen. xxvii, 16), was undoubtedly meant to 
be indicative of the man ; it was a natural sign, coeval 
with his very birth, by which his parents might descry 
the future man — as one in whom the animal should 
greatly preponderate over the moral and spiritual 
qualities of nature — a character of rough, self-willed, 
and untamed energy. From the word designating his 
hairy aspect, sear ("2*’<1J), it is not improbable that the 
mountain-range which became the possession of his 
descendants was called Mount Seir, though it is also 
possible that the rough, wooded appearance of the 
mountain itself may have been the occasion of the 
name. See Seir. 

In process of time the different natural endowments 
of the two boys began to display their effects in dis- 
similar aptitudes and pursuits. While Jacob was led 
by his less robust make and quiet disposition to fulfil 
the duties of a shepherd's life, and pass his days in and 
S around his tent, Esau was impelled, by the ardor and 
lofty spirit which agitated his bosom, to seek in the 
toils, adventures, and perils of the chase his occupa- 
tion and sustenance ; and, as is generally the ease in 
natures like his, he gained high repute by his skill and 
daring, which allied him to the martial exercises of the 
Canaanitcs (xxv, 27). He was, in fact, a thorough 
' Bedmcy , a “son of the desert” (so we may translate 
rnb b n N, man of the field), who delighted to roam 
free as the wind of heaven, and who was impatient of 
the restraints of civilized or settled life. His old fa- 
ther, by a caprice of affeetion not uncommon, loved his 
wilful, vagrant boy; and his keen relish for savory 
food being gratified by Esau’s venison, he liked him 
i all the better for his skill in hunting (xxv, 28). A 


ESAU 


285 


ESAU 


hunter’s life is of necessity one of uncertainty as well 
as hardship ; days pass in which the greatest vigilance 
and the most strenuous exertions may fail even to find, 
much less capture game (see Thomson, Land and Book, 
ii, 309). The hunting tribes of North America often 
find themselves, after severe and long-continued labor 
and watching, unprovided with food, and necessitated 
to a leugth of abstinence which wonld be fatal to per- 
sons bred in towns or living by the ordinary pursuits 
of the field. Esau had on one occasion experienced 
• such a disappointment, and, wearied with his unpro- 
ductive efforts, exhausted for want of sustenance, and 
despairing of capturing any prey, he was fain to turn 
his steps to his father’s house for succor in his ex- 
tremity. On reaching home he found his brother en- 
joying a carefully prepared dish of pottage : attracted 
by the odor of which, he besought Jacob to allow him 
to share in the meal, llis brother saw the exigency 
in which Esau was, and determined not to let it pass 
unimproved. Accordingly, he put a price on the re- 
quired food. Esau was the elder, and had, in conse- 
quence, immunities and privileges which were of high 
value. The surrender of these to himself Jacob made 
the condition of his complying with Esau’s petition. 
Urged by the cravings of hunger, alarmed even by the 
fear of starvation, Esau sold his birthright to his youn- 
ger bother, confirming the contract by the sanction of 
an oath. Jacob, having thus got his price, supplied the 
famishing Esau with needful refreshments. Jacob 
took advantage of his brother’s distress to rob him of 
that which was dear as life itself to an Eastern patri- 
arch. The birthright not only gave him the head- 
ship of the tribe, both spiritual and temporal, and the 
possession of the great hulk of the family property, but 
it carried with it the covenant blessing (Gen. xxvii, 
23, 29, 36 ; Heb. xii, 16, 17). Yet, though Esau, under 
the pressure of temporary suffering, despised his birth- 
right by selling it for a mess of pottage (Gen. xxv, 34), 
he afterwards attempted to secure that which he had 
deliberately sold (Gen. xxvii, 4, 34, 38; Heb. xii, 17). 
It is evident the whole transaction was public, for it 
resulted in a new name being given to Esau. He said 
to Jacob, “Feed me with that same red (ClNH) ; there- 
fore was his name called Edom''' (D 11 X; Gen. xxv, 30). 
It is worthy of note, however, that this name is seldom 
applied to Esau himself, though almost universally 
given to the country he settled in, and to his posterity. 
See Edom. The name “Children of Esau” is in a few 
cases applied to the Edomites (Dent, ii, 4; Jer. xlix, 
8 ; Obad. 18), but it is rather a poetical expression. 

Arrived now at forty }’-ears of age, Esau married 
two wives in close succession. B.C. cir. 1963. Some 
unhappy feelings appear to have previously exist- 
ed in the family; for while Esau was a favorite with 
his father, in consequence, it appears, of the presents 
of venison which the youth gave him, Jacob was re- 
garded with special affection by the mother. These 
partialities, and their natural consequences in unamia- 
ble feelings, were increased and exaggerated by Esau’s 
marriage. His wives were both Canaanites, and, on 
account of their origin, were unacceptable to Isaac and 
Itebekah. The latter was especially grieved. “ I am 
weary,” she said (Gen. xxvii, 46), “of my life, because 
of the daughters of Heth.” Esau thus became alien- 
ated from the parental home. Even his father’s pref- 
erence for him may have been injuriously affected. 
The way was in some measure smoothed for the trans- 
ference of the coveted birthright to the younger sew. 

Kit to, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. 

There is much apparent confusion in the accounts 
of Esau’s wives and their relatives and posterity, as 
given iu Gen. xxvi, 34; xxviii-, 9; xxxvi, 2-5, 10- 
30, 40-43 ; 1 Chron. i, 35-42, 51-54, which may be ad- 
justed by the following combination : (1.) TIis first 
wife was Adah, the daughter of Elon the Ilittite (Gen. 
xxxvi, 2), or an aboriginal Canaanite. Sec Hittite. 


' In Gen. xxvi, 34, she is incorrectly called Bashemath, 
apparently by confusion with the name of his third 
wife, although her parentage is correctly given. Her 
only child w T as Eliphaz, w ho w r as therefore Esau’s first- 
born (Gen. xxxvi, 10, 15 ; 1 Chron. i, 35). (2.) Esau’s 

1 second wife was Aholibamah, the daughter of Auali, 
as all the accounts agree except that in Gen. xxvi, 
34, where, by some error or variation of names, she is 
called Judith, the daughter of Beeri the Hittite. This 
Anali, in Gen. xxxvi, 2, 14, is called the daughter of 
Zibeon, but from ver. 20, 24, 25, and 1 Chron. i, 38, it 
is evident that he was the son of Zibeon, his brother 
being Ajah, and his only children a son Dishon and 
this daughter Aholibamah. We may also remark that 
this Anah and this Dishon had each an uncle of the 
same name respectively (Gen. xxxvi, 20, 21), and the 
name Aholibamah belonged subsequently to a chief- 
tain of an Edomitish tribe (ver. 41). Zibeon was a 
son of Seir, the original settler of the mountain which 
went by his mime. His descendants were properly 
called Horites (Gen. xxxvi, 20, 29), but in ver. 20 he 
is called a Hivite, a term frequently interchangeable 
for heathenish tribes, as Hittite, in chap, xxvi, 34, is 
twice used for the same purpose. This connection of 
Esau with the original inhabitants of Idumaea will ex- 
plain his subsequent removal to that region, and the 
eventual supremacy of his descendants there. His 
children by Aholibamah were Jeush, Jaalam, and Ko- 
rah. (3.) Esau’s third wife, taken, not like the for- 
mer, from foreign families, but from kindred stock, 
was Bashemath (otherwise called Mahalath), sister of 
Nebajoth and daughter of Ishmael, who bore him 
Reuel (Gen. xxxvi, 3, 4 ; xxviii, 9). This elucidation 
substantially agrees with that proposed by Prof. Tur- 
ner ( Companion to Genesis, p. 323), after Hengstcnberg. 
— These sons of Esau rose to the importance of sheiks 
: (“dukes”) in their respective families (those by Aho- 
libamah being espccialty so styled, Gen. xxxvi, 18); 
and this was naturally more emphatically the case 
with his grandsons (Gen. xxxvi, 15, 16, v'here the 
name Korali is an interpolation, and Amalek is reck- 
oned along with the legitimate children of Eliphaz ; 
comp, the parallel account in 1 Chron. i, 36, where the 
name Tinma is in like manner interpolated), who were 
probably cotemporaneous with the native sheiks men- 
tioned in ver. 29, 30, or but little later — the gradual 
superiority of the Esauites over the Horites appearing 
from the tact that the heirs of the latter (ver. 22-28) 
are not named with this distinction (comp. ver. 20, 21). 
This double line of chieftains of the respective tribes 
appears to have continued for a long time ; for in the 
subsequent list of native kings (ver. 31-39) and heads 
of the Edomitish part of the inhabitants (ver. 40, 43), 
coming down in parallel lines to about the time of the 
Exode (but from what point dated is uncertain), each 
appears to have regularly succeeded his predecessor, 
not by liereditan r right iudeed, but by that species of 
. common consent, founded upon acknowledged pre-emi- 
nence, which is to this day recognised in the election 
j of Arab emirs. See Edomite. 

The time for the fulfilment of the compact between 
the brothers has at length arrived. Isaac is “ sick unto 
death.” II is appetite, as well as his health, having 
failed, is only to he gratified by provocatives. He de- 
sires some savory venison, and gives the requisite in- 
structions to Esau, who accordingly proceeds in quest 
of it. On this Kebckah begins to feel that the critical 
time has come. If the hated 1 1 ittites are net to enter 
with her less favored son into possession of the family 
property, the sale of the birthright (the original idea 
of which she may have suggested to the “ plain man,” 
her son Jacob) must now in some way be confirmed 
and consummated. Due essential particular remained 
— the father’s blessing. If this should be given to 
Esau, all hope was gone ; for this, like onr modern 
wills, would hand the inheritance and the accompany- 
ing headship of the tribe to Esau and his w’ives. 


ESAU 


280 


ESAU 


Isaac, however, had lost his sight — indeed, all his 
senses were dull and feeble. It was therefore not 
very diflieult to pass off Jacob upon him as Esau. 
Tiebckah takes her measures, and, notwithstanding 
Jacob’s fears, succeeds. Isaac, indeed, is not without 
suspicion, but a falsehood comes to aid Jacob in his 
otherwise discreditable personation of Esau. The 
blessing is pronounced, and thus the coveted property 
and ascendency are secured. The affectionate en- 
dearments which pass between the deceiver and the 
abused old blind father stand in painful contrast with 
the base trickery by which the mother and the son ac- 
complished their end. This episode in the history of 
Esau and Jacob is still more painful than the former, 
as it fully brings out those bitter family rivalries and 
divisions which were all but universal in ancient 
times, and which are still a disgrace to Eastern societ}'. 
Esau, however, returns from the field, approaches his 
decrepid and sightless father, declaring who he is. 
“And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, 
Who ? where is be that hath taken venison and brought 
it me, and I have eaten of all before thou earnest, and 
have blessed him ? yea, and he shall be blessed.” On 
this Esau becomes agitated, and entreats a blessing 
for himself — “ Bless me, even me also, 0 my father.” 
Urging this entreaty again and again, even with tears, 
Isaac at length said to him, “ Heboid, thy dwelling 
shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of 
heaven from above ; and by thy sword shalt thou live, 
and shalt serve th}'- brother; and it shall come to pass 
when thou shalt have the dominion that thou shalt 
break his yoke from off thy neck” (Gen. xxvii). 
Thus, deprived forever of his birthright, in virtue of 
the irrevocable blessing, Esau but tro naturally con- 
ceived and entertained a hatred of Jacob, and he vowed 
vengeance. But, fearing his aged father’s patriarchal 
authority, he sectctly congratulated himself: “The 
days of mourning for my father are at hand, then will 
I slay my brother Jacob” (Gen. xxvii). Thus he im- 
agined that by one bloody deed he would regain all 
that had been taken from him by artifice. But he 
knew not a mother’s watchful care. Not a sinister 
glance of his eyes, not a hasty expression of his tongue, 
escaped Rebekah. Words to the above effect which 
Esau let drop were repeated to his mother, who there- 
upon felt that the life of her darling son, whose gentle 
nature and domestic, habits had won her heart’s affec- 
tions. was now in imminent peril ; and she prevailed 
on her younger son to flee to his uncle Laban, who 
lived in Ilaran, there to remain until time, with its 
usual effect, should have mitigated Esau’s wrath. B.O. 
1027. The sins of both mother and child were visited 
upon them by a long and painful separation, and all 
the attendant anxieties and dangers. By a charac- 
teristic piece of domestic policy, Rebekah succeeded 
both in exciting Isaac’s anger against Esau, and ob- 
taining Lis consent to Jacob’s departure — “And Re- 
bekah said to Isaac, 1 am weary of my life because of 
the daughters of Jleth; if Jacob take a wife such as 
these, what good shall my life do me?” Her object 
was attained at oneo. The blessing was renewed to 
Jacob, and be received bis father’s commands to go to 
Padan-aram (Gen. xxvii, 40; xxviii, 1-5.) 

When Esau heard that his father had commanded 
Jacob to take a wife of the daughters of his kinsman 
Laban, he also resolved to try whether by a new alli- 
ance he could propitiate his parents. He accordingly 
married his cousin Mahalath, the daughter of Ishmacl 
(xxviii, 8, 9). This marriage appears to have brought 
him into connection with the Ishmaelitish tribes be- 
yond the valle}’ of Arabuh. He soon afterwards es- 
tablished himself in Mount Seir; still retaining, how- 
ever, some interest in his father’s property in South- 
ern Palestine. It is probable that his own habits, and 
the idolatrous practices of lffs wives and rising family, 
continued to excite and even increase the anger of his 
parents ; and that he, consequently, considered it more 


prudent to remove his household to a distance, IIo 
was residing in Mount Seir when Jacob returned from 
Padan-aram, and had then become so rich and power- 
ful that the impressions of his brother’s early offences 
I seem to have been almost completely effaced. Jacob, 
however, feared lest his elder brother might intercept 
him on his way, to take revenge for former injuries, 
lie accordingly sent messengers to Esau, in order, if 
possible, to disarm his wrath. Esau appears to have 
announced in reply that he would proceed to meet his 
returning brother. When, therefore, Jacob was in- 
| formed that Esau was on his way for this purpose with 
! a band of four hundred men, he was greatly distressed, 
in fear of that hostility which his conscience told him 
, lie had done something to deserve. What, then, must 
have been bis surprise when he saw Esau running with 
extended arms to greet and embrace him ? and Esau 
“fell on bis neck, and kissed him, and they wept.” 
Jacob had prepared a present for Esau, hoping thus to 
conciliate his favor; but, with the generous ardor 
which characterizes, and somewhat of the disinterest- 
edness which adorns, natures like his, Esau at first 
courteously refused the gift: “I have enough, my 
brother; keep that thou hast unto thyself” (Gen. 
xxxiii). But doubts and fears still lurked in the 
J mind of Jacob, and betrayed him into something of his 
j old duplicity ; for, while he promises to go to Seir, he 
carefully declines his brother’s escort, and immediate- 
ly after his departure turns westward across the Jor- 
dan (Gen. xxxii, 7, 8, 11; xxxiii, 4, 12, 17). B.C. 
1907. The whole of this rencounter serves to show 
that, if Jacob had acquired riches, Esau had gained 
power and influence as well as property; and the 
homage, which is paid to him indirectly and by impli- 
cati( n on the part of Jacob, and directly, and in the 
, most marked and respectful manner, by the females 
and children of Jacob’s family, leads to the supposi- 
tion that he had made himself supreme in the sur- 
rounding country of Idumaea. See Edom. 

It does not appear that the brothers again met until 
the death of their father, about twenty years after- 
waids. Mutual interests and mutual fear seem to 
have constrained them to act honestly, and even gen- 
erously towards each other at this solemn interview. 

1 They united in laying Isaac’s body in the cave of 
Machpelah. B.C. 1883. (See Rost, Piet as Esavi in pa- 
rentes, Bautzen, 1788.) Then “Esau took all his cat- 
tle, and all his substance, which he had got in the 
land of Canaan” — such, doubtless, as bis father, with 
Jacob’s consent, had assigned to him — “and went into 
the country from the face of his brother Jacob” (xxxv, 
29; xxxvi, 6). He now saw clearly that the cove- 
nant blessing was Jacob’s, that God had inalienably 
allotted the land of Canaan to Jacob’s posterity, and 
that it would be folly to strive against the divine will. 
He knew also that as Canaan was given to Jacob, 
Mount Seir was given to himself (comp, xxvii, 39; 
xxxii, 3 ; and Dent, ii, 5), and he was therefore de- 
sirous, with his increased wealth and power, to enter 
into full possession of Lis country, and drive out its old 
inhabitants (Dent, ii, 12). Another circumstance may 
have influenced him in leaving Canaan. He “lived 
by bis sword” (Gen. xxvii, 40), and he felt that the 
rocky fastnesses of Edom would lie a safer and more 
suitable abode for such as by their habits provoked the 
hostilities of neighboring tribes than the open plains 
of Southern Palestine. Esau is once more presented 
to us (Gen. xxxvi) in a genealogical table, in which 
a long line of illustrious descendants is referred to 
“Esau, the father of the Edomites” (Gen. xxxvi, 43). 
The country to which Esau, with his immense family 
and flocks, retired, was the tract of Mount Seir, from 
which they gradually dispossessed the thinly scattered 
population that* preceded them in its occupancy, and 
which they continued to hold for many generations. 
It was a region entirely suited to the nomadic and rov^ 

I ing character of the race. But in regard to the rela- 


ESAU 


287 


ESCHATOLOGY 


tionship between them and the seed of Israel, the re- 
mote descendants of Esau proved less pliant or gener- 
ous than their progenitor ; for from the time that 
Israel left the land of Egypt, when the two families 
again came into contact, the posterity of Esau seemed 1 
to remember only the old quarrel between the respect- 
ive heads of the races, and to forget the brotherly ' 
reconciliation. A spirit of keenest rivalry and spite 
characterized their procedure towards Israel ; through 
many a bloody conflict they strove to regain the as- ! 
cendency which the decree of heaven had destined in 
the other direction ; and in the times of Israel’s back- 
sliding and weakness they showed themselves ever 
ready, according to the prophetic word of Isaac, “to 
break his yoke from off* their neck,” and to drive the 
evil to the uttermost. But it was a fruitless struggle ; 
the purpose of Heaven stood fast; the dominion re- 
mained with the house of Jacob ; and in the course of 
the Maecabaean wars the children of Esau finally lost 
their independent existence, and became substantially 
merged in the house of Israel. The decree of Ileaven, 
as we have said, had so fixed it; but that decree did 
not realize itself arbitrarily ; the preference for Israel 
and his seed was no senseless favoritism; from the 
first the qualities were there which inevitably carried 
along with them the superiority in might and bless- 
ing; while, on the other hand, in Esau’s carnalism, 
sensuality, godlessness, the destiny of his race was al- 
ready indicated. See Idum.ea. 

If the historical outline now given is supported by 
the scriptural narrative, the character of Esau has not 
ordinarily received justice at the hands of theologians. 
The injurious impression against him may be traced 
back to a very ancient period. The Targum of Jona- 
than (at Gen. xxv, 34) sanctioned and spread, if it did 
not originate, the misjudgment by unwarrantable ad- 
ditions to the account given in Genesis. The reason, 
it states, why Esau did not at once slay his brother 
was lest, as happened in the case of Cain and Abel, 
another man-child might be born, and thus he should 
still be deprived of his inheritance ; he therefore re- 
solved to wait till the death of Isaac, when the murder 
of Jacob would leave him in safe and undisputed pos- 
session. Representations made in the Talmud are of 
a similar tendency (Otho, Lex. Rabb. p. 207 ; Wet- 
stein, iV. T. ii, 437; comp. Philo, Opp. i, 551; ii, 441, 
G75). The Arabians likewise commemorate him (Hot- 
tinger, flint. Oi'ient. p. 53 sq.). Cedrenius gives (Hist. 
Heel. p. 31) the story of his having been killed by an 
arrow discharged by Jacob. The fathers of the Church, 
particularly Augustine, regard Esau as the representa- 
tive of the damned, while they admire Jacob as that of 
tho elect (see Stempel, De salute Esavi,Je na, 1G78), bas- 
ing these views upon an erroneous interpretation of 
such passages as Rom. xii, 10; ix, 13. (Shuckford's 
Connections , ii, 174; Clarke’s Comment, on Gen. xxvii, 
xxv; lvitto’s Daily Jllustr. in loc. ; Xiemeyer, Char- 
aft. ii, 153 sq. ; liaumgarten, Ally. Welthist. ii, 50 sq. ; 
Bauer, Ilebr. Gesch. i, 147 ; Hoehheimer, Ini Orient. 
1841, Xo. 35 ; Sherlock, IPo/Trs, v ; Dupin, Xoitv. Bibl. 
iv; Evans, Script. Blog. i; Roberts, Sermons , p. 134; 
Buckle, Sermons , i, 96 ; Simeon, Works, i, 211 ; Alcock, 
Apology for Esau, Plymouth, 1791 ; Townsend, Sermons 
[1849], p. 253 ; Goodwin, Parish Seomons, ii, 1.) See 
Jacob. 

E'SAU ('ll era v, Vulg. Set), given (1 Esd. v, 29) as 
the name of the head of one of the families of “ Temple 
servants” or Nethinim that returned from the captiv- 
ity; in place of the Ziiia (q. v.) of the Hebrew text 
(Ezra ii, 43). 

E'say ('Hornac, Vulg. Isaia, Isaias), the form in 
which the name of the prophet Isaiah (q. v.) con- 
stantly appears in the A. V. of the Apocrypha (Ecclus. 
xlviii, 20, 22; 2 Esd. ii, 18). See Esaias. 

Eschatology (a discussion of the last things, ter- 
%ara), a branch of theology which treats of the doc- 


trines concerning death, the condition of man after 
death, the end of this world period, resurrection, final 
judgment, and the final destiny of the good and the 
wicked. We treat it here, 

I. In its Biblical aspects, especially as to the doc- 
trine of the Bible concerning the end of the world, 
denoted by the use of the phrase “last days,” which 
is applied in the 0. T. to the consummation of the Jew- 
ish economy by the introduction of the Messianic (Isa. 
ii, 2 ; Mie. iv, 1 ; comp. Acts iii, 1 ; Ileb. i, 2), and in 
the X. T. is extended to the still expected develop- 
ments of the divine purposes respecting the Church 
(2 Tim. iii, 1 ; 2 Pet. iii, 3). See Last Day. 

1. The Maccabecan Age. — In the O.-T. prophets the 
return from Balwlon is often made a type of the in- 
coming of the more glorious dispensation of the Gos- 
pel. This is the first, more obvious, and most literal 
eschatological symbol, and much of the language (es- 
pecially of Isaiah) bearing upon it has therefore a 
double sense (q. v.) or twofold application. See Res- 
toration" (of the Jews). 

2. The Chiliastic Period. — This is the Christian, as 
the preceding was the Jewish view of the consumma- 
tion of the existing divine eeonomy, so far as relates to 
the administration of this icorld. It will be treated un- 
der Millennium. 

3. The final Denouement of all terrestrial A fairs . — 
This whole branch of the subject is particularly exhib- 
ited in our Lord's diseonrse to his disciples upon the 
Mount of Olives (Matt, xxiv, xxv), in which the two 
scenes of the retribution impending over Jerusalem, 
and the final judgment, are intimately associated to- 
gether, in accordance with that almost constant prac- 
tice in the Hebrew prophets by which one event is 
made the type and illustration of another much farther 
in the future. See JIyponoia. This is emphatically 
exemplified in the vaticinations of Isaiah (q. v.), who 
perpetually refers to the coining glory of Christ under 
the figure of the nearer deliverance from Babylon, both 
these denouements being projected upon the same plane 
of prophecy, without any note of the interval of time 
between; likewise in the visions of John in the Revela- 
tion (q. v.), where the dramatis personce are generic rep- 
resentations of certain principles constantly reappear- 
ing in the history of the Church rather than confined 
to particular characters at one time only. Such often- 
repeated developments of divine providence are the 
“coming of the Son of Man” and its attendant phe- 
nomena, in the sketches or rather glimpses afforded us 
by the Scriptures into the future. See Sign (of tiie 
Son of Max). 

As to the passage in Matthew, which forms the 
leading proof-text of eschatological treatises, the fol- 
lowing expository hints will serve to clear up much 
of the obscurity and ambiguity which has been thrown 
around the text by the confused manner in which 
many interpreters have treated its predictions (see 
Strong’s Harmony and Exposition of the Gospels , § 123 ; 
Stier, Worth of Jesus, in loc. ; Whedon, Commentary , in 
loc. ; Xast, Commentary, in loc.). 

(1.) The question of the apostles (Matt, xxiv, 3) re- 
lates to two distinct subjects, namely, the “coming of 
the ‘Son of man’ to do these things,” and the “end 
of the world these two topics, therefore, are discuss- 
ed by Christ in his reply. (More strictly, there are 
two questions concerning the first event, namely, 
“when,” and “the sign.” Mark and Luke evidently 
mean to confine their reports of this discourse to this 
former catastrophe, and therefore they do not mention 
the second inquiry as to the “end of the world” at all.) 
Yet, as the questioners apparently supposed that these 
two events would be simultaneous, or at least intimate- 
ly connected (as the constant tenor of all former proph- 
ecies had naturally made them think), the answer also 
uses very similar language in treating them both, a 
style which their analogous nature peculiarly required. 
Still, the Great Teacher could not fail to give them 


ESCHATOLOGY 


28S 


ESCHATOLOGY 


true criteria, by which to separate these two catastro- 
phes, and for tiiese wc are to look in his language. 
That all the events predicted in Matthew's account as 
far as xxiv, 84 are connected with the former of these 
themes, namely, the demolition of Jerusalem and abo- 
lition of the Jewish polity, is certain from the declara- 
tion at that verse, that they should all occur within 
the then living generation; and the following verses 
are so intimately connected with these, both by con- 
tinuity of idea and notes of simultaneousness, that a 
disruption anywhere before eh. xxv, 31 would be very 
harsh and arbitrary. At this point, however, we dis- 
cover clear intimations of a transition ( easy indeed, as 
the typical correspondence of the two catastrophes 
would lead us to expect, yet a real and marked one) to 
the second subject, the general judgment. Ihe change 
is introduced by the notes of time, “ But [unwarrant- 
ably omitted in our translation] when .... then” and 
by the loftier tone of the style, besides the distinctive 
mention of u nll nations” as the subjects of that adjudi- 
cation (ver. 32). In the latter portion of Christ’s dis- 
course alone is employed the briefer and more general 
mode of prediction usual with the prophets in prefigur- 
ing far-distant events, and here only is the language 
all exclusively applicable to the filial judgment. The 
expressions deemed by some to point out such a tran- 
sition at other points than those assumed above (xxiv, 
35, and especially xxv, 31) will be noticed presently ; 
it is sufficient here to say in general that, as the pas- 
sages embraced within the medial portion (xxiv, 27- 
xxv, 80) are designed to be a link of connection be- 
tween two judicial events so correlative in character, 
they naturally assume a style that might be applied to 
either, borrowing some expressions in describing the 
former which otherwise would belong exclusively to 
the latter. See a similarly blended style in describing 
the former of these two events in 2 Thess. i, 7- 9 ; comp, 
with ii, 2 ; and comp. Matt, xvi, 27, 28. 

Many place at the end of Matt, xxiv, 28 the transi- 
tion to the final judgment; but it is difficult to extend 
the intimations of consecutiveness that follow (“[Hut] 
immediately after,” “ But in those days”) over such a 
chasm. It is true, the description ensuing in verses 
29-31 is unusually allegorical for a prose discourse, but 
this is explained by the fact that it is evidently bor- 
rowed almost wholly from familiar poetic predictions 
of similar events. Man} 1 - of these particulars, more- 
over, may refer, partially at least, in a literal sense, to 
the concurrent natural phenomena intimated in Luke 
xxi, 11 ; ami in their utmost stretch of meaning they 
also hint at the collapse of nature in the general judg- 
ment. The objection of anachronism in this applica- 
tion of the “ tribulation” of verse 29 as a subsequent 
event, is obviated by considering that this term here 
refers to the incipient stages of the “ tribulation” of 
verse 21, where the previous context shows that the 
distress of thefrst siege and preliminary campaign are 
specially intended ; Luke (verse 24) there gives the 
personal incidents of the catastrophe itself as succeed- 
ing, with an allusion to the long desolation of the land 
that should follow ; so that Christ here resumes the 
thread of prophetic history (which had been somewhat 
interrupted by the caution against the impostors who 
were so rife in the brief interim of the suspension of 
actual hostilities) by returning to the national conse- 
quences of the second and decisive onset of the Ho- 
mans. The assignment of these events contained in 
the ensuing verses, as to take place 11 after the tribula- 
tion” (presumed to be that of the acme of the Jewish 
struggle), is the strongest argument of those who ap- 
ply this whole following passage to the final judgment. 
But they overlook the equally explicit limit i 'imme- 
diately after,” and, moreover, fail to discriminate the 
precise date indicated by “that tribulation.” This 
latter is made (in verse 21 of Matthew) simultaneous 
with the flight of the Christians, which could not have 
been practicable in the extremity of the siege, but is 


directed (in verse 15) to be made on the approach of 
the besiegers. The consummation intimated here, 
therefore, refers to the close of the siege (i.e. the sack 
itself), and the preceding rigors are those of its prog jess. 
It ought, moreover, to be considered that the fall of the 
capital was but the precursor of the extinction of the 
Jewish nationality (here typified by celestial prodi- 
gies) ; the utter subjugation of the country at large of 
course following that event. Another interpretation 
is, that the following passage refers to a second over- 
throw (the final extermination of the Jewish metropo- 
lis under the emperor Adrian in a subsequent war), as 
distinguished from the first under Titus ; this is in- 
genious, hut would hardly justify the strong language 
here employed, and would, moreover, require the limit 
“immediately” to bo extended half a century faithcr, 
when the living “ generation” must have entirely pass^ 
cd away. Nor at this later event could the “redemp- 
tion” cf the Christians properly be said to “draw 
nigh” (verse 28 of Luke), the Jews having then long 
ceased to have any considerable power to persecute ; 
compare the deliverance prophetically celebrated in 
llev. xi, especially verses 8, 18. 

(2.) In the highly-wrought description of Matt, xxiv, 
29 ; Luke xxi, 25, 26 (which constitutes the transition- 
point or intermediate part of our Saviour’s discourse), 
the political convulsions during the acme of the Jew- 
ish struggle with the Romans are compared with a 
contest among the elements, in which the sun, moon, 
stars, earth, and waves join in one horrible war to ag- 
gravate human misery and desperation (comp. Judg. 
v, 20) ; the individual terms are therefore to be under- 
stood as merely heightening the general idea. To 
those who suppose the final judgment referred to in 
the expressions of this and the following verses, it may 
here be remarked that these symbolical phenomena of 
nature are all said to take place “ immediately after 
[Mark, ‘in’] . . . . those days,” while the subsequent 
“coming” is made simultaneous by the word “then” 
used by all the evangelists; and all these events are 
specially noted as signals of a “deliverance” (Luke, 
verse 28), evidently the same with that of the Chris- 
tians from Jerusalem’s ruin and power to oppress be- 
fore alluded to; the whole being limited bv all the 
evangelists in distinct terms to the present generation. 
In order to understand many of the phrases of this 
representation (as especially those of verses 30, 31), 
the induction (so to speak) of a style of language usual- 
ly appropriated to the second catastrophe (as intimated 
at the close of paragraph 1 above), must be berne in 
mind. 

The first element of this “tribulation” (that affect- 
ing the celestial luminaries, a statement common to all 
the evangelists here) is cited from Isa. xiii, 10, a pas- 
sage spoken with reference to the fall of Babylon ; 
comp. Joel iii, 15, and many similar passages, in which 
the prophets represent great national disasters by celes- 
tial phenomena of an astounding character. All the 
following quotations, as they appear in the evangelists, 
are cited by our Saviour with considerable latitude and 
irregularity of order, as his object was merely to afford 
brief specimens of this style ; but the general resem- 
blance to the original pictures is too strong to he mis- 
taken. See Isa. xxxiv, 4 ; xiii, 13; Ezek. xxxii, 7, and 
especially Joel ii, 30, a prediction expressly quoted by 
the apostle Peter (Acts ii, 19) as referring to the de- 
struction of Jerusalem. 

lu illustration of the angels spoken of in connection 
with these incidents (Matt, xxiv, 31 ; Mark xiii, 27), it 
should be borne in mind that the Jew naturally asso- 
ciated a retinue of angelic servants with the advent of 
the Messiah in his triumphant career, and this idea 
Christ hero accommodates, in order to assimilate this 
first with his final judicial appearance, and thus im- 
press it more deeply upon his volatile disciples’ mind 
(comp. Dan.vii, 10). The “angels” in this case arc the 
providential means (including particularly the Homan 


ESCHATOLOGY 


289 


ESCURIAL 


invaders), by which the Christians’ rescue from siege, 
sack, and especially persecution, was effected ; and the 
“trumpet sound'’ refers to the warning intimations 
which the belligerent preparations afforded them, thus 
giving them at once an assurance and a signal of de- 
liverance. In the similar language of Matt, xiii, 41, 49, 
the primary reference is to the general judgment. Tint 
in the passage before ns it is to be specially noted that 
the “ trumpet” is to “gather together his elect ” only, in 
distinction from the “all nations” of Matt, xxv, 32. 

At Matt, xxiv, 44 (comp. Luke xii, 41), the dis- 
course, which previously had been slightly tinged with 
allusions to the second judicial coming of Christ (verses 
29-31), now begins to verge more distinctly to that 
final stage, as the reply to Peter that follows indicates. 
Still, there is no mark that the transition to the last 
judgment is effected till cli. xxv, 31. 

In the conclusion of the first topic of Christ’s dis- 
course (Matt, xxv, 1-13; comp. Luke xii, 35-38: the 
parable in Matt, xxv, 14-30 is parallel with an earlier 
one of our Lord, Luke xix, 11 sq.), the near anticipa- 
tion of the second topic produces almost a double sense 
in this (and to a degree, in the preceding) parable, 
which is not so much the effect of direct design as the 
natural moulding of the language while on a kindred 
subject, by the vivid presence to the mind of a sublime 
one which is soon to be introduced; and, indeed, scarce- 
ly any phraseology (especially in the far-reaching 
style of allegory) could have been consistently adopted 
which -would not have been almost equally applicable 
to both events. Still, a comparison of verse 13 with 
ch. xxiv, 3(1, 42 shows that the same occurrences (Je- 
rusalem’s siege and fall) are here chiefly referred to. 

3. The imaginative style of the representation of the 
judgment day (Matt, alone, xxv, 31-36), which is es- 
pecially betrayed in the comparison with the shepherd, 
shows that many of its descriptive particulars are de- 
signed only for poetic “ drapery ,” needed to portray 
the actualness of that scene of the invisible -world ; the 
body of reality couched under it consists in the fact of 
a nniversal discrimination of mankind at a future set 
time by Christ in the capacity of judge, according to 
their religious character, followed by the assignment 
of a corresponding destiny of happiness or misery 
Comp. Rom. xiv, 10, 12 ; 2 Cor. v, 10; 1 Thess. iv, 16. 

►See Cremer, Eschatologische Rede Christi (Stuttg. 
1860) ; IJorner, De oratione Christi eschcitologica (Stuttg. 
1844) ; Lippold, De Christo venturo oracula (Dresd. 
1776); also the Theol. Stud. u. Krit. 1836, ii, 269 ; 1846, 
iv, 965; 1801, iii; Jour. Sac. Lit. Jan. 1857; Stowe, 
in Bibliotheca Sacra , vii, 452. There are special ex- 
egetical treatises on Matt, xxiv and xxv, in Latin, 
by Jachmann (Lips. 1749), Braudes (Aboie, 1792), 
Rintsch (Neost. ad Oril. 1827), Kenon (Aho, 1798), 
Schmid (Jen. 1777), Masch (Nov. Bill. Lubec. ii, 69), 
Anon. (Lips. 1809) ; in German, by Crome (Brem. u. 
Yerd. Bibl. ii, 349), Ammon (N. th°ol. Journ. i, 365), 
Jahn (in liengel’s A rchiv. ii, 79), Anon, (in Eichhorn’s 
Biblioth. iii, 669 ; Beitrage z. Bcfdrd. xi, 118 ; Tbllner’s | 
Kurzz verm. Avfsdtze , 1 1, i, 221-50) : on Christ’s coining | 
( rrapovota , see Advent), in Latin, by Tvchsen (Gott. 
1785), Schott (Jen. 1819) ; in German, by Baumeister 
(in Klaiber’s Stud. I, ii, 219-41 ; iii, 1-59 ; II, i, 1-104; 
ii, 3-48), Schulthess ( Neueste theol. Naehtr. 1829, p. 18- 
48): on the phrase ovck b uio£, in Latin, by Osiander 
(Tub. 1754) : on the parallel passage of Luke, in Ger- 
man, by Goze (Sendschr. Hamb. 1783, 1784), Molden- 
haner (ib. 1784, bis). See Kalile, Biblische Esckatolo- 
gie (Gotha, 1870). 

II. Theological Eschatology is a subdivision of sys- 
tematic, and more particularly of dogmatic theology. 
It generally constitutes the concluding part of dog- 
matic theology, as it treats of what constitutes both for 
the individual Christian and for the Christian Church, 
as a whole, the completion of their destiny. As escha- 
tology presupposes a belief in the immortality of the 
soul, some writers on dogmatic tlieologv (as Ilase) treat 
III. — T 


of it in connection with the doctrine of man, and before 
they treat of the Church. Others connect the doctrine 
of death with the doctrine of sin. On some points of 
eschatology, different views were held at an early period 
of the Church. Origen understood a passage in the 
Epistle to the Romans on the Apocatastasis (q. v.) as 
meaning a final reconciliation and salvation of the wick- 
ed, and this view has found some adherents at all times. 
See Restorations sts. In modern times, some go so 
far as to deny all punishment after the present life, 
and asserting the immediate salvation of all men [see 
Universalists] ; while others teach that immortality 
M ill be the lot of only the good, and that the wicked, 
after their death, will be annihilated. See Anniiiila- 
tionists. See aho the articles Death, Intermedi- 
ate State, Judgment, Heaven, Hell, Resurrec- 
tion, Immortality. The Church of Rome developed 
the theory of a future state, different from heaven and 
hell, for which see the article Purgatory. No point 
connected with eschatology has from the earliest period 
of the Church been more productive of excited contro- 
versy than the doctrine of the second advent of Christ 
and of the Millennium. For the history of this doctrine, 
see the article Millennium. In German there are sep- 
arate treatises on eschatology, e. g. Richter, die Lehre 
von den letzten Dingen (Bresl. 1833, 8vo); Lau, Paulus 
Lehre v. d. letzt. Dingen (Brandenb. 1837, 8vo) ; Valenti, 
Eschalologie (Basel, 1840, 8vo); Karsten, Lehre von d. 
letzten Dingen (Rostock, 3d ed. 1861) ; Schultz, Voraus- 
setzungen der christi. Lehre von der Unsterblichkeit (Got- 
tingen, 1861) ; AVilmarshof, Das Jenseits (Leipz. 3 parts, 
1863-1866) ; Noldechen, Grade der Scligkeit (Berlin, 
1863) ; Splittgerber, Tod , Fortleben u. Avferstehung 
(Halle, 1863) ; Rink, Vom Zustande nach dem Tode 
(Lndwigsburg, 2d ed. 1865) ; Oswald, Eschatologie (Pa- 
derborn, 1868). — Hagenbach, Encycl. § 89; Ilerzog, 
Real-Encykl. iv, 155. (A. J. S.) 

Escobar y Mendoza, Antonio, a Spanish Jes- 
uit and noted casuist, was born at Valladolid in 1589, 
and took the vows of the order of Jesuits in 1604. He 
became very eminent as a preacher, and is said to 
have preached daily (sometimes twice a day) for fifty 
years. He was also a prolific writer, leaving more 
than forty folio volumes of ascetic divinity, sermons, 

| casuistry, etc. Ilis Liber Theologice Mo rails (Lyon, 
1646, 7 vols. 8vo) passed through many (39 in Spain) 
editions, and was long the favorite text-book of the 
Jesuits. He also wrote Universie Theologice Moralis 
problemata (Lyon, 1652, 2 vols. fob): — Universee Theol. 
Moral, receptiores sentential, etc. (Lyon, 7 vols. fol.). 
Escobar became the butt of Pascal’s w it in the Provin- 
cial Letters , a fact which will carry his name to the 
latest posterity. Ilis “liberality” in morals was so 
excessive that even Rome -was compelled to disavow 
some of his doctrines. His complete works fill 42 vol- 
umes. He died July 4, 1669. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. 
Generate , xvi, 375 ; Alegambe, Biblioth. Scriptorum Soc. 
Jcsu (Louvain, 1854). 

Escurial, or Escorial, a city of Spain, twenty-four 
miles NAV. of Madrid, containing a celebrated convent- 
palace generally called Escurial. The convent, built 
for 160 monks of the order of Jerome, was erected 1653- 
84, by Philip II, in fulfilment of a vow made at the bat- 
tle of St. Quentin, fought on the anniversary of St. Law- 
rence. It is built in tlje form of a gridiron, in com- 
memoration of the martyrdom of the saint, and the 
king’s palace forms the handle. The buildings aro 740 
feet long, inclosing20 courts, in which are 63 fountains; 
there are 17 cross paths, 890 doors, 1000 columns, 5000 
windows, 9 towers surmounted by cupolas, a magnifi- 
cent church with 48 altars in side chapels. The main 
altar is adorned bv a statue of St. Lawrence in solid 
silver, weighing 450 pounds. Underneath is the cost- 
ly burying vault of the king, of marble and jasper. 
The library of the convent contains some 4000 MSS., 
mostly Arabic, and is the principal collection of Ori» 


ESDRAELA 


290 


ESDRAS 


ental history and literature. Many of the MS. and 
other treasures were lost when the place was sacked 
by the French in 1808. Besides these, there are some 
24,000 vols. of ancient authors, principally on history. 
The picture-gallery contains some *105 original paint- 
ings. A park surrounds the king’s palace, or Casa del 
Principe. — Penny Cyclopedia ; Ilerzog, ReaLEncyklopt . 
iv, 157. 

Esdraela. See Jezreel. 

Esdrae'lom. See Esdraelon. 

Esdrae'lon [from v. r. (or rather 

Esdrllon, ’EacptiXu)', Judith, iii, 9; iv, 6; hut “Esdre- 
lom ,” ’E(r£p)}\d>fi, Judith i, 8; “Esdraelom,” vii, 3, 
where it is called “ the great plain,” as simply in Jo- 
sephus everywhere, rb mciov peya), the name of a 
valley or large bottom, a Griecized form derived from 
the old royal city of Jezreel, which occupied a com- 
manding site, near the eastern extremity of the pla- 
teau, on a spur of Mount Gilboa. “The great plain of 
Esdraelon” extends across central Palestine from the 
Mediterranean to the Jordan, separating the mountain 
ranges of Carmel and Samaria from those of Galilee. 
The western section of it is properly the plain of Ac- 
cho or Acre (’Akka). The main body of the plain is a 
triangle. Its base on the east extends from Jenin 
(the ancient Engannim) to the foot of the hills below 
Nazareth, and is about 15 miles long ; the north side, 
formed by the hills of Galilee, is about 12 miles long; 
and the south side, formed by the Samaria range, is 
about 18 miles. The apex on the west is a narrow 
pass opening into the plain of ’Akka. This vast ex- 
panse has a gently undulating surface — in spring all 
green with corn where cultivated, and rank weeds and 
grass where neglected — dotted with several low gray 
tells, and near the sides ■with a few olive groves. This 
is that valley of Megicldo (WT2 so called from 

the city of Megiddo [q. v.], which stood on its'south- 
ern border), where Barak triumphed, and where king 
Josiah w’as defeated and received his death-wound 
(Judg. v; 2 Chron. xxv). Probably, too, it was be- 
fore tiie mind of the apostle John when he figuratively 
described the final conflict between the hosts of good 
and evil who were gathered to a place called A r-ma- 
yeddon (Appaytvm'ov, from the Heb. 1^1573 that is, 
ike city of Megiddo ; Kev. xvi, 16). The river Kishon 
—“that ancient river” so fatal to the army of Sisera 
(Judg. v, 21) — drains the plain, and flows off through 
the pass westward to the Mediterranean. 

From the base of this triangular plain three branch 
plains stretch out eastward, like fingers from a hand, 
divided by two bleak gray ridges — one bearing the 
familiar name of Mount Gilboa; the other called by 
Franks Little llermon, but by natives Jebel ed-Duhy. 
The northern branch has Tabor on the one side, and 
Little llermon on the other; into it the troops of Ba- 
rak defiled from the heights of Tabor (Judg. iv, 6); 
and on its opposite side are the sites of Nain and En- 
dor. The southern branch lies between Jenin and Gil- 
boa, terminating in a point among the hills to the east- 
ward ; it was across it that Ahaziah fled from Jehu (2 
Kings ix, 27). The central branch is the richest as well 
as the most celebrated ; it descends in green, fertile 
slopes to the banks of the Jordan, having Jezreel and 
Shunem on opposite sides at the western end, and Beth- 
shean in its midst towards the east. This is the “val- 
ley of Jezreel” proper — the battle-field on which Gid- 
eon triumphed, and Saul and Jonathan were over- 
thrown (Judg. vii, 1 s<q. ; 1 Sam. xxix and xxxi). In- 
deed, a large part of the most sanguinary battles 
fought in Palestine in ever}' age have been waged 
upon this eventful plain. 

Turn things are worthy of special notice in the plain 
of Esdraelon : 1. Jls wonderful richness.— Its unbroken 
expanse of verdure contrasts strangely with the gray, 
bleak crowns of Gilboa, and the rugged ranges on the 


north and south. The gigantic thistles, the luxuriant 
I grass, and the exuberance of the crops on the few' cul- 
tivated spots, show the fertility of the soil. It was 
the frontier of Zebulon — “ Rejoice, Zebulon, in thy <70- 
iny out ” (Dent, xxxiii, 18).' But it was the special por- 
tion of Issachar — “ And he saw that rest was good, and 
the land that it was pleasant; and bowed his shoulder 
to bear, and became a servant unto tribute” (Gen. 
xlix, 35), 2. Its desolation. — If we except the eastern 

branches, there is not a single inhabited village on its 
whole surface, and not more than one sixth of its soil 
is cultivated. It is the home of the wild, wandering 
Bedouin, who scour its smooth turf on their fleet horses 
in search of plunder ; and when hard pressed can 
speedily remove their tents and flocks beyond the Jor- 
dan, and beyond the reach of a weak government. It 
has always been insecure since history began. The 
old Canaanitish tribes drove victoriously through it in 
their iron chariots (Judg. iv, 3, 7); the nomad Midian- 
ites and Amalekites — those “children of the East,” who 
v'ere “as grasshoppers for multitude,” whose “cam- 
els were without number” — devoured its rich pastures 
(Judg. vi, 1-6 ; vii, 1) ; the Philistines long held it, es- 
tablishing a stronghold at Bethsliean (1 Sam. xxix, 1 ; 
xxxi, 10); and the Syrians frequently swept over it 
with their armies (1 Kings xx, 26 ; 2 Kings xiii, 17). 
In its condition, thus exposed to ever}' hasty incur- 
sion and to every shock of -war, we read the fortunes 
of that tribe which for the sake of its richness consent- 
ed to sink into a half-nomadic state — “ Rejoice, O Issa- 
char, in thy tents . . . Issachar is a strong ass, crouch- 
ing down between two burdens ; and he saw that rest 
was good, and the land that it was pleasant, and bowed 
his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto trib- 
ute” (Gen. xlix, 14, 15 ; Deut. xxxiii, 18). Once only 
| did this tribe shake off the yoke — w hen under the 
heavy pressure of Sisera, “the chiefs of Issachar were 
i With Deborah” (Judg. v, 15). Their exposed position 
! and valuable possessions in this open plain made them 
anxious for the succession of David to the throne, as 
i one under whose powerful protection they would enjoy 
that peace and rest w’hich they loved ; and they joined 
with their neighbors of Zebulun and Naphtali in send- 
ing to David presents of the richest productions of their 
rich country (1 Chron. xii, 32, 40). See Issachar. 

The whole borders of the plain of Esdraelon are dot- 
ted with places of high historic and sacred interest. 
Here we group them together, while referring the 
reader for details to the separate articles. On the 
east v'e have Endor, Nain, and Shunem, ranged round 
the base of the “ hill of Moreli ;” then Bethsliean in 
the centre of the plain where the “valley of Jezreel” 
opens towards the Jordan ; then Gilboa, w ith the 
“well of Ilarod,” and the ruins of Jezreel at its west- 
ern base. On the south are Engannim, Taanach, and 
Megiddo. At the western apex, on the overhanging 
brow of Carmel, is the scene of Elijah’s sacrifice ; and 
close by the foot of the mountain below' runs the Ki- 
| shon, on whose banks the false prophets of Baal v'ere 
slain. On the north, among places of less note, are 
Nazareth and Tabor. The modern Syrians have for- 
gotten the ancient name as they have forgotten the 
ancient history of Esdraelon, and it is now known 
among them only as Merj ibn-Amcr, “the Plain of 
the Son of ’Amer.” A graphic sketch of Esdraelon 
is given in Stanley’s Syr. and Pales, p. 327 sq. ; see 
also Porter, Handbook for Syria and Palestine, p. 351 
sq. ; Jowett, Christian Researches , p. 146, 222; Robin- 
son, Researches, neu r edit, ii, 315-30, 366; iii, 133 sq. ; 
Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 216 sq. ; AValther, De Ms- 
yaXiOTrtlip Palwstimc (Lips. 1792). — Smith, s. v. See 
Jezreel. 

Es'dras ("Efffyaff ; Vulg. Esdras), the Gnecized 
form, used throughout the Apocrypha (3 Esd. viii, 1, 3, 
7, 8, 9, 39, 23, 25^ 93, 92, 96 ; ix, 3, 7, 36, 39, 40, 42, 45, 
46, 49; 2 Esd. i, 3 ; ii, 10. 33, 42; vi, 10; vii, 2, 25; 
viii, 2, 19 ; xiv, 3, 38), of the name of the scribe Ezra 


ESDRAS 


291 


ESDRAS 


(q. v.). In several manuscripts of the Latin Vulgate, 
as well as in all the printed editions anterior to the 
decree of the Council of Trent, and in many since that 
period, there will be found four books following each 
other, entitled the 1st, 2d, 3d, and 4th books of Ezra. 
The first two are the canonical books of Ezra and Ne- 
hemiah, the 3d and 4th form the subject of the articles 
below. The} r are the same which are called 1st and 
2d Esdras in the English Authorized Version. For 
their use and relation to the canonical books see Josip- 
pon ben-Gorion (ed. Breithaupt, 1710), p. 47 sq. ; Tren- 
delenburg, in Eichhorn’s Biblioth. i, 180 sq. ; Eiehhorn, 
Einlcit. in d. Apocr. p. 335 sq. ; Herzfeld, Gesch. d. Israel , 
p. 320 sq. ; Ewald, Gesch. Isr. iv, 131 sq. ; lveil, Einleit. 
in d. A. T. (ed. 1859), p. 677 sq. ; Davidson, Text of 0. 
T. p. 937 sq. See Apocrypha. 

ESDRAS, First Book. of. This is the first of the 
apoeryphal books in the English translations of the 
Bible (viz., Coverdale, Matthews, Taverner, the Ge- 
neva Bible, Cranmcr's Bible, the Bishops’ Bible, the 
A. V.), which follow Luther and the translators of the 
Zurieh version, who were the first that separated the 
apocryphal from the canonical books. It must, how- 
ever, be observed that Luther himself never translated 
the apoeryphal portions of Ezra, because he regarded 
them as unworthy of a place among the apocrypha 
(see below, see. 5). 

I. Title and Position. — This book has different titles. 
In some editions of the Sept, it is called 6 'Hptuc, the 
Priest (Cod. Alex.), which is equivalent to Ezra, who, 
by way of eminence, was styled u the priest” or “ the 
scribe,’” in others it is designated 'Fjodpaq, Ezra, while 
in the Vatican and many modern editions of the Sept., 
as well as in the old Latin and the Syriac, it is ealled 
“the first book of Ezra,” and accordingly is placed be- 
fore the canonical Ezra, which is called u the second 
book of Ezra,” because the history it gives is in part 
anterior to that given in the canonical Ezra. In the 
Vulg., again, where Ezra and Nehemiah are respective- 
ly styled the first and second book of Ezra, this apoery- 
phal book, which comes immediately after them, is 
called “ the third book of Ezra.” Others, again, call it 
'''•the second book of Ezra” (Isidore, Origg. vi, 2), be- 
cause Ezra and Nehemiah, which it follows, were to- 
gether styled “ the first book of Ezra,” according to a 
very ancient practice among the Jews, who, by putting 
the two canonical books together, obtained the same 
number of books in the Scriptures as the letters in the 
Hebrew alphabet; and others call it Pseudo-Ezra , in 
contradistinction to the canonical Ezra. The name 
first Esdras given to it in the A. V. is taken from the 
Geneva Bible ; the older English translations (viz. 
Coverdale’s Bible, Matthew’s Bible, the Bishops’ Bi- 
ble), as well as the sixth article of the Church of Eng- 
land (1571), following Luther and the Zurich Bible, 
call it the third Esdra, according to the Vulg. Since 
the Council of Trent (1546), this book has been removed 
from its old position to the end of the volume in the 
Sixtine and Clementine editions of the Vulg. In the 
list of revisers or translators of the Bishops' Bible, sent 
by Archbishop Parker to Sir William Cecil, with the 
portion revised by each, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, and 
the apoeryphal books of Esdras seem to be all com- 
prised under the one title of Esdras. Barlow, bishop- 
of Chichester, was the translator, as also of the books 
of Judith, Tobias, and Sapientia ( Corresp . of Archbp. 
Parker, Park. Soe. p. 335). 

II. Design and Contents. — The object of this book, as 
far as its original portion is concerned (iii, 1-v, 6), is to 
excite the heathen rulers of Judaea to liberality" and 
kindness towards the Jews, by depicting the good ex- 
ample of Darius, from whom Zerubbabel obtained per- 
mission, by the aid of wisdom, to return with his breth- 
ren to Palestine, and to rebuild the city and the Tem- 
ple. This design is worked out in the following at- 
tractive story. Darius, having given a sumptuous 
feast to all his subjects in the second year of his reign, 


retired to rest (iii, 1-3) ; when asleep, his three body-, 
guards, Zerubbabel being one of them, proposed each 
to write a maxim stating what he thought was the 
most powerful thing, in the hope that the king would 
reward the wisest writer (ver.4-9). Accordingly, they 
all wrote: one said a Wine is the most powerful;” the 
other, u A king is the most powerful;” while Zerub- 
babel wrote, u Women are very powerful, hut truth 
conquers all.” The slips containing these maxims 
were put under the king’s pillow, and were given to him 
when he awoke (ver. 10-12). When he had read them 
he immediately sent for all his magnates, and, having 
read these maxims before them (ver. 13-15), ealled upon 
the three youths to explain their sayings (ver. 16, 17). 
The first spoke elaborately about the great power which 
wine manifests in different ways (ver. 18-24) ; the sec- 
ond descanted upon the unlimited power of royalty, 
illustrating it by various examples (iv, 1-12); while 
Zerubbabel discoursed upon the mighty influence of 
women, frequently contravening the power of wine 
and monarehs, and then burst forth in praise of truth 
so eloquently, that all present exclaimed, “ Great is 
truth, and mightiest above all tilings” (ver. 13-41). 
Darius then offered to Zerubbabel anything he should 
ask (ver. 42), whereupon lie reminded the king of his 
vow to rebuild Jerusalem and return the saered vessels 
when he ascended the throne (ver. 43—47). The king 
stood up, kissed Zerubbabel, wrote to all officials to 
convey him and all his brethren to Palestine, and to 
supply all the necessary materials for the rebuilding 
of the Temple (ver. 48-63). 

This is preceded and followed by descriptions of 
events which present the whole as one continuous nar- 
rative, relating in historical order the restoration of the 
Temple-serviee first under Josiali, then under Zerubba- 
bel, and finally under Ezra, and which are compiled 
from the records contained in the hooks of Chronicles, 
Ezra, and Nehemiah, as follows : 

1. CJhnp. i corresponds to 2 Ohron. xxxv and xxxvi, giving an 
account of Josiah’s magnificent etdebration of the Passover- 
feast in the eighteenth month of his reign, and continuing 
the history till the Babylonian captivity. 

2. Chap, ii, 1-15, corresponds to Fzra i, 1-11, recording the re- 
turn of the Jews from Babylon under the guidance of Sana- 
bassar in the reign of Cyrus. 

3. Chap, ii, 1G-30, corresponds to Ezra iv, 7-24. giving an ac- 
count of Artaxerxes’ prohibition to build the Temple till the 
second year of Darius. 

4. Chap, iii, 1-v, 0, contains the original piece. 

5. Chap, v, 7-73, corresponds to Ezra ii, 1-iv, 5, giving a list 
of the persons who returned with Zerubbabel, describing 
the commencement of the building of the Temple and the 
obstacles whereby it was interrupted “far the space of two 
years” until the reign of Darius. 

G. Chap, vi, 1-vii, 15, corresponds to Ezra v, 1 -vi, 22, giving an 
account of the building of the Temple by Zerubbabel under 
Darius, of its completion in the sixth year of this monarch’s 
reign, and of the commencement of the Temple service. 

7. Chap, viii, 1-ix, 3G, corresponds to Ezra vii, l~x, 44, describ- 
ing the return of Ezra with his colony, and the putting 
away of the strange wives. 

S. Chap, ix, 37-55, corresponds to Nell, vii, 23— viii, 12, giving 
an accouut of Ezra's public rending of the law. 

The original piece around which all this clusters 
has evidently been the cause of this transposition and 
remodelling of the narrative contained in the eanoni- 
eal books. Having assumed that Zerubbabel returned 
to Jerusalem with a portion of his brethren in the sec- 
ond year of Darius, the compiler naturally placed Ezra 
ii, 1-iv, 5, which gives the list of those that returned, 
after the original piece, for it belongs to ZerubbabeFs 
time, according to ii, 2, and the original pieee lie placed 
after Ezra iv, 7-24, because Ezra (Ezra iv, 24) led him 
to suppose that Artaxerxes reigned before Darius. 
Hence a twofold design in the compiler is discernible. 
One was to introduce and give scriptural sanction to the 
legend about Zerubbabel, -which may or may not have 
a historical base, and may have existed as a separate 
work; the other was to explain the great obscurities 
of the book of Ezra, and to present the narrative, as 
the author understood it, in historical order, in which, 
however, he has signally failed. For, not to advert to 


ESI) R AS 


292 


ESDRAS 


innumerable other contradictions, the introducing of seems to indicate a residence in Egypt, and an acquaint- 
the opposition of the heathen, as offered to Zerubbabel ancc with the lawlessness of Greek pirates there ac- 
ofter he had been sent to Jerusalem in such triumph by quired. The phraseology of v, 73 savors also strongly 
Darius, and the describing of that opposition as lasting of Greek rather thau Hebrew. If, however, as seems 
“ until the reign of Darius” (v, 73), and as put down very probable, the legend of Zerubbabel appeared first 
bv an appeal to the decree of Cyrus, is such a palpable as a separate piece, and was afterwards incorporated 
inconsistency as is alone sufficient quite to discredit into the narrative made up from the book of Ezra, this 
the authority of the book. It even induces the sus- Greek sentence from ch. v would not prove anything 
picion that it is a farrago made up of scraps by several as to the language in which the original legend was 
different hands. At all events, attempts to reconcile written. The expressions in iv, 40, “She is the 
the different portions with each other, or with Scrip- stienglh, kingdom, power, and majesty of all ages,” is 
tore is lost labor. very like the doxology found in some copies of the 

111 , Unity and Original Language.— The above an- Lord’s Prayer, and retained by us, “Thine is the king- 
alysis'of its. contents shows that the book gives ns a dom, and the power and the glory forever.” 
consecutive history de templi restitutione , as the old \ Lightfoot says that the Jews in the Temple s 


conseeutiv 
Latin tersely expresses it. 


But 
service, 

It is, however, not com- instead of saying Amen, used this antiphon, Blessed 


plete in its present state, as is evident from the abrupt be the Name of the Glory of Ilis Kingdom forever 
manner in which it concludes with Nell, viii, 12. AVe and ever ( Horfa, vi, 427). Thus the resemblance may 
may therefore legitimately presume that the compiler be accounted for by their being both taken from a corn- 
intended to add Nell, viii, 13-18, and perhaps also ch. mon source. 

ix. Josephus, who follows the history given in this AYhoever the author was, he seems to have lived in 
book, continues to speak of the death of Ezra (yDrf.xi, Palestine (comp, v, 47), and certainly was a master 
5, 5), from which it may be concluded that it originally of Greek, as is evident from his superior style, which 
formed part of this narrative. More venturous are the 
opinions of Zunz, that Neh. i-vii originally belonged 
to this book ( Die Gottesdienstl. Uortriige, p. 29), and of 
Eichhorn, that 2 Chron. xxxiv followed the abrupt 
breaking off (Einleitung in el. Apohr. p. 345 sq.). 

As to its original language, this compilation is un- 
doubtedly made directly from the Hebrew, and not 
from other parts of the present Sept. This is evi- 
dent from the rendering of tg—povStv 

rod \ctov, reading ‘"SSb (compare i, il with 2 Chron. 
xxxiv, 12), and of by kuI ervvtTiXt- 

c an TravTa rd tvdo aurijc, reading -- (comp, 

i, 53 with 2 Chron. xxxvi, 19 ; see also ii, 7-9 with 
Ezra i, 4, 6; ii, 17 with Ezra iv, 9; ii, 1G with Ezra 
iv, 7 ; ii, 24 with Ezra iv, 1C; ix, 10 with Ezra x, 4), 
since these can only be accounted for on the supposi- 
tion that the book was compiled and translated from 


resembles that of Symmaclius, and from his success- 
fully turning the Hebraisms into good Greek (comp, 
viii, 5 with Ezra viii, 17; ix, 13 with Ezra x, 14). 
The compiler must have lived at least a century before 
Christ, since Josephus follows his narrative of the 
times of Ezra and Nehcmiah (Ant. xi, 5 ; xi, 45). The 
book must therefore have existed for some time, and 
have acquired great reputation and authority, to make 
the Jewish historian prefer its description of those da} r s 
to that of the canonical books. 

V. Canonicity and Importance. — This book was nev- 
er included in the Hebrew canon, nor is it to be found 
in the catalogues of the Hebrew Scriptures given by 
the early fathers, e. g. Melito, Origen, Eusebius, Atha- 
nasius, Gregory Nazianzen, Hilary of Poitiers, Cyril 
of Jerusalem, the Council of Laodieea, and many oth- 
ers ; and St. Jerome emphatically warns us “not to 
take pleasure in the dreams of the 3d and 4th apoery- 
the Hebrew. The translator, however, did not aim phal books of Ezra” (Prof. in Esdr.et Nechem.). The 
so much to be literal as to produce a version compati- councils of Florence (1438) and Trent (154G) decided 
hie with the Greek idiom. Hence he sometimes ah- against its canonicity. The reason of this last exclu- 
breviated the Hebrew (comp, i, 10 with 2 Chron. xxxv, j gjon seems to be that the Tridentine fathers were not 
10-12; ii, 15, 1G with Ezra iv, 7 11 ; v, 7 with Ezra v, aware that it existed in Greek; for it is not in the 
6, 7 ; vi, 4 with Ezra v. 3, 4 ; viii, G with Ezra vii, G : J Complutensian edition (1515), nor in the Biblia Begin, 
viii, 14 with Ezra vii, 17 ; viii, 20 with Ezra vii, 22), Vatablus (1540) had never seen a Greek copy, and, in 
and sometimes tried to make it more intelligible by the preface to the apocryphal books, speaks of it as 
adding some words (comp, i, 56 with 2 Chron. xxvi, only existing in some MSS. and printed Latin Bihles. 


20 ; ii, 5 with Ezra i, 3 ; ii, 9 with Ezra i, 4 ; ii, 1G with 
Ezra iv, G; ii, 18 with Ezra iv, 12 ; v, 40 with Ezra ii, 
G3 ; v, 47 with Ezra iii, 1 ; v, 52 with Ezra iii, 5 ; v, GG 
with Ezra iv, 1; vi, 41 with Ezra ii, 61; vi, 8 with 
Ezra iv, 14; vi, 9 with Ezra v, 8; vii, 9 with Ezra vi, 
18). The original portion, too, is a Palestinian pro- 
duction, embellished to suit the Alexandrian taste. 


Baduel also, a French Protestant divine (Bill. Crit.') 
(about 15501, says that he knew’ of no one who had 
ever seen a Greek copy. For this reason it seems it 
was excluded from the Canon, though it has certainly 
quite as good a title to be admitted as Tobit, Judith, 
etc. It has indeed been stated (Bp. Marsh, Compar. 
View. ap. Soames, Hist, of lie f. ii, G08) that the Coun- 


Tlie IIebrew r forms of it may be seen in Josephus (Ant. cil of Trent, in excluding the tw o books of Esdras, 
xi, 3, 1) and Josippon ben-Gorion (i, e. 6, p. 47 sq., ed. followed Augustine’s Canon ; but this is not so. Au- 


Breithaupt). 

IV. Author and Date. — As regards the time and 
place when the compilation was made, the original 
portion is that which alone affords much clew. This 
seems to indicate that the writer was thoroughly con- 
versant with Hebrew r , even if he did not write the 
book in that language, lie was well acquainted, too, 
with the books of Esther and Daniel (1 Esdr. iii, 1, 2 
sq.), and other books of Scripture (ib. 20, 21, 39, 41, 
etc., and 45 compared with Psa. cxxxvii, 7). But 
that he did not live under the Persian kings, and was 
not contemporary with the events narrated, appears 
from the undiscriminating w’ay in w hich he uses pro- 
miscuously the phrase Medes and Persians, or Persians 
and Medes, according as he happened to be imitating 
the language of Daniel or of the book of Esther. The 
allusion in iv, 23 to “sailing upon the sea and upon the 
rivers,” for the purpose of “robbing and stealing,” 


gustine (de Doctr. Christ, lib. ii, 13) distinctly mentions 
among the libri eanonici Esdra duo; and that one of 
these was our 1st Esdras is manifest from the quota- 
tion from it given in his De Civit. Pei. Hence it is 
also sure that it was included among those pronounced 
as canonical jy the third Council of Carthage, A.D. 
397 or 419, where the same title is given, Esdra libri 
duo: here it is to he noticed by the w’ay that Augus- 
tine and the Council of Carthage use the term canoni- 
cal in a much broader sense than we do; and that the 
manifest ground of considering them canonical in any 
sense is their being found in the Greek copies of the 
Sept, in use at that time. Luther would not even 
translate it, •“ because there is nothing in it which is 
not better said 'by Esop in his Fables, or even in much 
more trivial books” (Vorrede avf den Baruch)', the 
version given in the later editions of Luther’s Bible 
is the work of Daniel Cramer, and the Protestant 


EbDRAS 


293 


ESDRAS 


Church generally has treated it with great contempt, 
because it contradicts the canonical books of Ezra and 
Nehemiah. On the other hand, Josephus, as we have 
seen, regards it as a great authority, and it was treat- 
ed with great reverence by the Greek and Latin fa- 
thers. St. Augustine mentions it among the canonical 
books (7>e Doctr. Christ, lib. ii, 13), and quotes the fa- 
mous passage, “ Truth is the strongest” (ch. iii, 12). as 
Ezra’s prophecy respecting Christ (De Civitat. Dei, 
xviii, 16); the same sentence is quoted as Scripture 
by Cyprian (Epist. lxxiv; comp, also Clemens Alex- 
andrinus, Strom, i; Athanasius, Oral, iii, eont. Aria- 
nos; Justin Martyr, Did. cum Tryph.). Modern criti- 
cism lias justly taken the middle course between treat- 
ing it with contempt and regarding it as canonical, 
and has recognised in it an important auxiliary to the 
settling of the text, and to the adjusting of the facts 
recorded in Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah, since 
this book has evidently been made from a different 
recension of the Hebrew, and has some readings and 
divisions preferable to those contained in the canonical 
books (comp, v, 9 with Ezra ii, 12 ; ix, 12 with Ezra 
x, G; ix, 1G with Ezra x, 1G). Both Berthcau in his 
commentary on Ezra and Nehemiah (Exeget. Ilandb. 
pt. xviii), and Fritzsche in his commentary on the 
apocryphal Ezra {Exeget. Ilandb. z. cl. Apokr. pt. i), 
have shown the important services which the canoni- 
cal and uncanonical records may render to each other. 
— Ivitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

VI. There are no separate commentaries on the first 
book of Esdras, and the literature pertaining to it is 
given under foregoing heads. 

ESDKAS, Second Book of, i. e. the second in the 
order of the apocryphal books as given in the English 
translations of the Bible, which follow the Zurich Bible. 

I. Title and Position. — The original designation of 
this book, by which it is appropriately called in the 
Greek Church, is ’ATroKaXcif/tc; 'Ea Spa, or 7rpo(pi}TEia 
’Eve pa, the Revelation or Prophecy of Ezra (comp. Ni- 
cephorus, apiul Fabric. Cod. Pseud. V. T. ii, 17G; Cod. 
Apocr. X. T. i, 951 sq. ; Montfaucon, Biblioih. Coislin. 
p. 191). The designation “1 Ezra,” which it has in the 
Arabic and Ethiopic versions, arises from the fact that 
it was placed before the canonical Ezra because it be- 
gins a little earlier (i. e. B.C. 558) than the Hebrew 
Ezra. It is called “2 Ezra” in the Latin version be- 
cause it follows the canonical books Ezra and Nehe- 
miah, which were together styled the first Ezra, and it 
is still more generally denominated ‘‘1 Ezra,” a name 
given to it by St. Jerome (comp. Prof, in Esdr. et Xe- 
chem. ), because it is in most of the Latin MSS. the 
fourth of the books which go by the name of Ezra, and 
which are placed in the following order: 1 Ezra, i. e. 
the canonical Ezra ; 2 Ezra, i. c. Nehemiah ; 3 Ezra, 
i. c. 1 apocryphal Ezra ; and 4 Ezra, i. e. this book.. 
The name “4 Ezra” is retained by Luther, the Zurich 
Bible, Coverdale, Matthew’s Bible, Cranmer’s Bible, 
the Bishops’ Bible, and in the Gth article of the Church 
of England (1571). The name “2 Esdras,” given to it 
in the A.V., is taken from the Geneva Bible, and is 
the title given to it by the author himself (2 Esdr. i, 
1). This book, like the former one, is placed at the 
end of the Vulgate in the Sixtinc and Clementine edi- 
tions, because it has been excluded from the Canon by 
the Council of Trent. 

I I. Design and Plan. — The object of this hook was to 
comfort the chosen people of God who were suffering 
under the grinding oppression of the heathen, by assur- 
ing them that the Lord has appointed a time of deliver- 
ance when the oppressors shall he judged, and the ten 
tribes of Israel, in union with their brethren, shall re- 
turn to the Holy Land to enjoy a glorious kingdom 
which shall be established in the days of the Messiah. 
This is gradually developed in an introduction , and 
seven angelic revelations , or visions, in which Ezra is 
instructed in the mysteries of the moral world, as fol- 
lows : 


1. Introduction (iii, 1-3G, A. V. ; or i, 1-36, Ethiopic 
Vers.). — When on his couch in Babylon, in the 30th 
year after the destruction of Jerusalem (B.C. 558), 
mourning over the deplorable fate of his brethren (ver. 
1-3), and recounting the dealings of God v r ith mankind 
generally (ver. 4-12), and with his chosen people in 
particular, in consequence of their sinful nature inher- 
ited from Adam (ver. 13-22), for which the Temple 
v r as destroyed and the city delivered into the hands of 
Gentiles (ver. 23-27), Ezra asked God why the hea- 
then sinners of Babylon are spared, whilst the people 
of his covenant are so unsparingly punished (ver. 28- 
36)? 

2. First Revelation (iv. 1-v, 15, A. V. ; ii, 1-iii, 23, 
Eth.). — In answer to this, the angel Uriel is sent, who, 
after censuring the presumptuonsness of a short-sight- 
ed man in trying to fathom the unsearchable dealings 
of the Most High, when he cannot understand the 
things below (ver. 1-21), and after Ezra’s earnest re- 
iteration of the question (ver. 22-25), says that sin has 
not yet reached its climax (ver. 26-31), enumerates 
the signs w hereby the fulness of that time will be dis- 
tinguished, and promises to reveal to him still greater 
things if he wfill continue to pray and fast seven days 
(ver. 32- v, 15). 

3. Second Revelation (v, lG-vi, 34, A. V. ; iii, 24-iv, 
37, Eth.). — Having fasted seven days according to the 
command of the angel, and against the advice of the 
prince of the Jew's (ver. 16-21), Ezra again appeals to 
God, asking why he does not punish his sinful people 
himself rather than give them over to the heathen 
(ver. 22-30)? Uriel, w r ho appears a second time, after 
referring again to the inscrutable judgments of God 
(ver. 31-5G), reveals to Ezra, according to promise, 
more distinctly w’liat shall be the signs of the latter 
days, saying that with Esau [the Idunneans] the pres- 
ent world will terminate, and the world to come will 
begin with Jacob (vi, 1-10), w'hereupon the day of 
judgment will follow, and be announced by the blast 
of a trumpet (ver. 11-25); Enoch and Elias, the fore- 
runners of the Messiah, shall appear (ver. 26), and sin 
and corruption will be destroyed (ver. 27, 2-^) ; tells 
him to be comforted, patient, and resigned, and that he 
shall hear something more if he W'ill fast again seven 
days (ver. 29-34). 

4. Third Revelation (vi, 35-ix, 25, A. V. ; iv, 38-ix, 
27, Eth.).— The fasting being over, Ezra again ap- 
peals to God, to know how it is that his chosen people^ 
for whom this wonderful world w r as created, are de- 
prived of their inheritance (ver. 35-59) ? Whereupon 
Uriel appears a third time, tells him that it is because 
of their sin (vii, 1-25), describes the death of the Mes- 
siah, the resurrection, the judgment, and the things 
which w'ilLcome to pass, concluding with an admoni- 
tion to Ezra to fast and pray again (ver. 26-ix, 25). 

5. First Vision (ix, 20-x, 59, A. V. ; ix, 28-x, 74, 
Eth.). — After appealing again to God in behalf of his 
brethren (ver. 26-37), Ezra suddenly saw a woman in 
the deepest mourning for her only son, w’ho had been 
born to her after being married thirty years, and who 
died on the day of his nuptials (ver. 38-x, 1), and she 
would not be comforted (ver. 2-4). He rebuked her for 
being so disconsolate about the loss of one son, when 
Sion w'as bereaved of all her children (ver. 2-14), and 
recommended her to submit to the dealings of God 
(ver. 15-24) ; her face speedily shone very brightly, 
and she disappeared (ver. 25-27) ; w hereupon Uriel 
appeared to Ezra, and told him that the woman is 
Sion, the thirty years of her barrenness are ‘‘ the thir- 
ty years w'herein no sacrifice w'as offered in her,” her 
first-born is the Temple built by Solomon, his death 
on the dav of his marriage is the destruction of Jeru- 
salem, and the extraordinary brightness of the moth- 
er's face is the future glory of Sion (ver. 28-59). 

6. Second Vision (xi, 1-xii, 51, A. V. ; xi, 1-xii, 58, 
Eth.). — Ezra in a dream had a revelation of the latter 
days under the figure of an eagle coming up from the 


ESDRAS 


294 


ESDRAS 


sea with three heads and twelve wings, which after- 
wards produced eight smaller wings spread over all 
things, and reigning over all the world (ver. 1-7). 
These wings, beginning from the right side, according 
to a voice which proceeded from the body of the eagle, 
reigned successively over all the earth, and perished, 
so that there remained six small wings (ver. 8-23), 
which, however, in attempting to rule, also perished, 
and the three heads only were left on the eagle’s body 
(ver. 24 31). These now reigned, one after the other, 
and perished, so that a single head remained (ver. 32- 
35). A lion (the Messiah) declared to the eagle that all 
his wings and heads were destroyed because he ruled 
the earth wickedly (ver. 3G-4G); then the body and 
whatever w'as left of the eagle were burnt in fire (xii, 

1. 2). Ezra awoke, and having prayed for the inter- 
pretation of this vision (ver. 3-9), was told by the angel 
that the eagle was the fourth monarchy which Daniel 
saw, and was admonished again to fast and pray (ver. 
10-51). 

7. Third Vision (xiii, 1-58, A. V. ; xiii, 1-G4, Eth.). 
— Ezra then had another dream, in which he saw a 
mighty spirit {rrvfvpa) arise from the sea resembling 
a man, who destroyed all his enemies with the blast 
of his mouth, and gathered around him large multi- 
tudes (ver. 1-13). On awaking, Ezra W'as told by the 
angel that it was the Messiah, who shall gather to- 
gether the ten tribes, lead them to their holy land, and 
give them Sion “ prepared and budded for them” (ver. 
14-58). 

8. Conclusion (xiv, 1-48, A. X . ; xiv, 1-52, Eth.). — 
Three days later, the voice which spoke to Moses in 
the bush tells Ezra that the latter days are at hand 
(ver. 1-12), bids him set his house in order, reprove 
those that are living (ver. 13-18), and write down, for 
the benefit of those who are not yet born, ninety-four 
books, i. e. the twenty -four inspired books of the O. T. 
which have been burnt, and seventy books of divine 
mysteries, which he duly did with the help of scribes 
(ver. 19-44), the recovered Scriptures to be communi- 
cated to all, and the Cabbalistic books only to the 
sages (ver. 45-48). 

The chief characteristics of the “three-headed ea- 
gle,” which refer apparently to historic details, are 
“twelve feathered wings” (duodecim aloe pennarum), 
“eight counter-feathers” (contrarian penmv),and “three 
heads;” but, though the writer expressly interprets 
these of kings (xii, 14, 20) and “kingdoms” (xii, 23), 
he is, perhaps intentionally, so obscure in his allusions 
that the interpretation only increases the difficulties 
of the vision itself. One point only may he consider- 
ed certain- — the eagle can typify no other empire than 
Koine. Notwithstanding the identification of the ea- 
gle with the fourth empire of Daniel (comp. Barnabas, 
Epist. p. 4), it is impossible to suppose that it repre- 
sents the Greek kingdom (Hilgenfekl ; compare Yolk- 
mar, Dias rierte Bitch Esra , p. 3G sq.). The power of 
the Ptolemies could scarcely have been described in 
language which may be rightly applied to Konie (xi, 

2, G, 40) ; and the succession of kings quoted bv llil- 
genfeld to represent “the twelve wings,” preserves 
only a faint resemblance to the imagery of the vision. 
But when it is established that the interpretation of 
the vision is to be sought in the history of Koine, the 
chief difficulties of the problem begin. The second 
wing (i. e. king) rules twice as long as the other (xi, 
17). This fact seems to point to Octavianus and the 
line of the Cresars ; but thus the line of “ twelve” leads 
to no plausible conclusion. If it is supposed to close 
with Trajan (Ltieke, 1st ed.), the “three heads” receive 
no satisfactory explanation. If, again, the “three 
heads” represent the three Flavii, then “the twelve” 
must be composed of the nine Cassars (Jul. Ca?sar — Yi- 
tcllius) and the three pretenders, Piso, Yimlex, and 
Nymphidius (Gfrdrer), who could scarcely have been 
brought within the range of a Jewish Apocalypse. 
Yolkmar proposes a new interpretation, by which two 


v'Ings are to represent one king, and argues that this 
symbol v r as chosen in order to conceal better from 
strange eyes the revelation of the seer. The twelve 
wings thus represent the six Ciesars (Caesar — Nero); 
the eight “counter-feathers,” the usurping emperors 
Galba, Otho,Yitellus, and Nerva ; and the three heads 
the three Flavii. This hypothesis offers many strik- 
ing coincidences with the text, but at the same time it 
is directly opposed to the form of interpretation given 
by Ezra (xii, 14, regnabunt . . . duodecim reges ; v. 
18, octo reges), and Yolkmar’s hypothesis that the 
twelve and eight were marked in the original MS. in 
some way so as to suggest the notion of division, is ex- 
tremely improbable. Van der Ylis and Liicke, in his 
later edition, regard the twelve kings as only general- 
ly symbolic of the Koman power ; and while they iden- 
tify the three heads with the triumvirs, they seek no 
explanation of the other details. All is evidently as 
yet vague and uncertain, and will probably remain so 
till some clearer light can be thrown upon Jewish 
thought and history during the critical period B.C. 
100-A.D. 100. 

In tone and character, the Apocalypse of Ezra offers 
a striking contrast to that of Enoch (q. v.). Trium- 
phant anticipations are overshadowed by gloomy fore- 
bodings of the destiny of the world. The idea of vic- 
tory is lost in that of revenge. Future blessedness is 
reserved only fur “ a very few” (vii, 70; viii. 1, 3, 52- 
55; vii, 1-13). The great question is “not liow r the 
ungodly shall be punished, but how the righteous shall 
be saved, for whom the w orld is created” (ix, 13). The 
“woes of Messiah” arc described with a terrible mi- 
nuteness which approaches the despairing traditions 
of the Talmud (v ; xiv, 10 sq. ; ix, 3 sq.) ; and after 
a reign of 4( 0 years (vii, 28-35 ; the clause is wanting 
in Eth., v, 29), “Christ,” it is said, “my Son, shall die 
(Arab, omits), and all men that have breath; and the 
world shall be turned into the old silence seven days, 
like as in the first beginning, and no man shall re- 
main” (vii, 29). Then shall follow the resurrection 
and the judgment, “the end of this time and the be- 
ginning of immortality” (vii, 43). In other points the 
doctrine of the book offers curious approximations to 
that of Paul, as the imagery docs to that of the Apoca- 
lypse (c. g. 2 Esdr. xiii, 43 sq. ; v, 4). The relation 
of “the first Adam” to his sinful posterity, and the 
operatien of the law r (iii, 20 sq. ; vii, 48; ix, 3G) ; the 
transitoriness of the world (iv, 2G) ; the eternal coun- 
sels of God (vi, sq.) ; his providence (vii, 11) and long- 
suffering (vii, G4) ; his sanctification of his people 
“from t lie beginning” (ix, 8), and tlicir peculiar and 
lasting privileges (vi, 59), are plainly stated ; and, on 
the other hand, the efficacy of good works (viii, 33), in 
conjunction with faith (ix, 7), is no less clearly affirmed. 

III. Unity and Original Language . — For a long time 
this book of Ezra was known only by an old Latin 
version, which is preserved in some MSS. of the Yul- 
gate. This version was used by Ambrose, and, like 
the other parts of the Veins Latina, is probably older 
than the time of Tertullian. It is published in VJal- 
ton’s Polyglot, vol. iv. An Arabic text was discovered 
by Mr. Gregory, about the middle of the 17th century, 
in tw’o Bodleian MSS., and an English version made 
from this by Simon Ockley was inserted by Whiston 
in the last volume of his Primitive Christianity (Lou- 
don, 1711). Fabricius added the various readings of 
the Arabic text to his edition of the Latin in 1723 
{Cod. Pseudep. F. T. ii, 174 sq.). An Ethiopic text 
w'as published by [archbishop] Laurence, with Eng- 
lish and Latin translations (Primi Esrce libri , versio 
yEthiopica . . . Latine Angliccque reddita, Oxon.1820); 
likewise from a Bodleian MS. which had remained 
w’holly disregarded, though quoted by Ludolf in his 
dictionary. The Latin translation has been reprinted 
by Gfrorer, with the various readings of the Latin and 
Arabic (Prtrf. Pseudep. Stuttg. 1840, p. GG sq.) ; hut the 
original Arabic text lias not yet been published. 


ESDRAS 


295 


ESDRAS 


The three versions were all made directly from a 
Greek text. This is evidently the case with regard 
to the Latin (Liieke, 1 "ersucli einer vol’st. Einleitung, i, 
149) and the Ethiopic (Van der Vlis, Disputatio critica 
de Ezrie lib. ctpocr. p. 75 sq.), and apparently so with 
regard to the Arabic. A clear trace of a Greek text 
occurs in the Epistle of Barnabas (c. xii — 2 Ezra v, 
5), but the other supposed references in the apostolic 
fathers are very uncertain (e. g. Clem, i, 20; Herm. 
Past, i, 1, 3, etc.). The next witness to the Greek 
text is Clement of Alexandria, who expressly quotes 
the book as the work of “ the prophet Ezra” ( Strom . 
iii, 16, § 100). A question, however, has been raised 
whether the Greek text was not itself a translation 
from the Hebrew (Bretschneider, in Henke’s Mus. iii, 
478 sq., ap. Liieke l . c.) ; but the arguments from lan- 
guage, by which the hypothesis of a Hebrew (Aramaic) 
original is supported, are wholly unsatisfactory ; and, 
in default of direct evidence to the contrary, it must be 
supposed that the book was composed in Greek. This 
conclusion is farther strengthened by its internal char- 
acter, which points to Egypt as the place of its compo- 
sition. 

The idea of a Hebrew original has now been pretty 
generally given up by scholars, despite the positive 
assertion of Galatinus {De Arcanis Catholiccc Ver it ails') 
that a copy of it was reported to exist among the Jews 
at Constantinople in his day, and it is commonly be- 
lieved that it was written in Greek. Although the 
Greek is lost, yet there can be no doubt that the Old 
Latin version, through which alone this book has been 
known to us till lately, was a translation from that 
language. This is evident from the fact that it imi- 
tates the Greek idiom in making the adjective in-the 
comparative degree govern a genitive ease , and not, as 
in Latin, an ablative , and introduces other Gneeisms, 
which are barbarous, in the version (comp, ii, 24; v, 
13, 26, 39 ; vi, 25, 31, 46, 57 ; vii, 5 ; viii, 7, 8, 38, 44 ; 
ix, 14; xi, 42). This is, moreover, corroborated by 
the Arabic and Ethiopic versions, as well as the quota- 
tion from this book in the fathers (see below, sect, v), ; 
■which prove the very early existence of it in Greek. 
It is, however, equally certain that many of the things 
contained in this book are of Palestinian origin, and 
are still to be found in Hebrew or Aramaic dispersed 
through the Talmud and Midrash ini. 

The common Latin text, which is followed in the 
English version, contains two important interpolations 
(ch. i, ii ; xv, xvi) which are not found in the Arabic 
and Ethiopic versions, and are separated from the gen- 
uine Apocalypse in the best Latin MSS. Both of 
these passages are evidently of Christian origin : they 
contain traces of the use of the Christian Scriptures 
(e. g. i, 30, 33, 37 ; ii, 13, 26, 45 sq. ; xv, 8, 35 ; xvi, 54), 
and still more they are pervaded by an anti-Jewisli 
spirit. Thus, in the opening chapter. Ezra is com- 
manded to reprove the people of Israel for their con- 
tinual rebellions (i, 1-23), in consequence of which God 
threatens to cast them off (i, 24-32), and to “ give their 
houses to a people that shall come.” But, in spite of 
their desertion, God offers once more to receive them ! 
(ii, 1-32). The offer is rejected (ii, 33), and the bea- ! 
then are called. Then Ezra sees “the Son of God” . 
standing in the midst of a great multitude “wearing ' 
crowns and bearing palms in their hands” in token of 
their victorious confession of the truth. The last two 
chapters (xv, xvi) are different in character. They 
contain a stern prophecy of the woes which shall come 
upon Egypt, Babylon, Aria, and Syria, and upon the 
whole earth, with an exhortation to the chosen to 
guard their faith in the midst of all the trials with 
which they shall he visited (? the Decian persecution; 
comp. Liieke, p. 186 sq.). Another smaller interpo- 
lation occurs in the Latin version in vii, 28, -where filius 
meus Jesus answers to “ J fg Messiah ” in the Ethiopic, 
and to “ My Son Messiah" in the Arabic (comp. Liieke, 
p. 170, n., sq.). On the other hand, a long passage oc- 


| curs in the Ethiopic and Arabic versions after vii, 35 
which is not found in the Latin (Ethiop. c. vi), though 
it bears all the marks of genuineness, and was known 
to Ambrose {De bono mart, x, xi). In this case the 
omission was probably due to dogmatic causes. The 
chapter contains a strange description of the interme- 
diate state of souls, and ends with a peremptory denial 
of the efficacy of human intercession after death. Vig- 
ilantius appealed to the passage in support of his views, 
and called down upon himself by this the severe re- 
proof of Jerome {Lib. c. Vigil, c. 7). This circum- 
stance, combined with the Jewish complexion of the 
narrative, may have led to its rejection in later times 
(comp. Liieke, p. 155 sq.). 

Despite the arbitrary division into chapters in our 
English version which sometimes interrupts a vision 
in the middle of a sentence, few readers will fail to see 
the intimate connection and the beautiful adjustment 
of these angelic revelations, and bow every one of 
them forms an essential part in leading us farther and 
farther till we reach the climax of the apocalypse. It 
i is owing to this remarkable unity which the whole 
work displays that the numerous interpolations made 
for dogmatic purposes have so easily been detected. 

IV. Author and Date. — The greatest divergency of 
^ opinion prevails on this subject. The author has suc- 
! cessively been described as a true prophet wlio lived 
B.C. 336; an impostor who flourished A.D. 160; a 
! Jew, a Christian, a converted Jew, and as a Monta- 
nist. The whole complexion of the book, however, 
incontestably shows that the author of it was a Jew. 
His personating Ezra, the contempt and vengeance 
I which he breathes against the Gentiles (vi, 50, 57), 
the intense love he manifests for the Jews, who alone 
know the Lord and keep his precepts (iii, 30-36), de- 
claring that for them alone was this world created (iv, 

| 63, 66; vi, 55, 59; vii, 10, 11), and reserving all the 
blessings of salvation for them (vii, 1-13); his view of 
righteousness, which consists in doing the v.orks of 
the law, and that the righteous are justified and re- 
warded for their good works (viii, 33, 36) ; the purport 
I of his questions, referring exclusively to the interests 
of this people (iv, 35 ; vi, 59) ; the Hagadic legends 
about the Behemoth and Leviathan which are reserved 
for the great Messianic feast (vi, 49-52) ; the ten tribes 
(xiii, 39-47) ; the restoration of the Scriptures and the 
writing of cabbalistic books for the sages or rabbins 
of Israel (xiv, 20-22, 37-47) — all this proves beyond 
doubt that the writer was a thorough Hebrew. Chap- 
ters i, ii, xv, and xvi, which contain allusions to the 
N. T. (compare i, 30 with Matt, xxxiii, 37-39; ii, 11 
with Euke xvi, 9 ; ii, 12 with Bey. xxii, 2 ; xv, 8 with 
Rev. vi, 10; xvi, 29 with Matt, xxxiv, 10; xvi, 42- 
44 with 1 Cor. vii, 29), and especially the anti-Jewish 
spirit by which they are pervaded, as well as the name 
of Jesus in ch. viii, 28, which have been the cause why 
some have maintained that this book is the production 
of a Christian, are now generally acknowledged to be 
later interpolations made by some Christian. (Sec 
above, sect, iii.) 

As to the date of the book, the limits within which 
opinions vary are narrower than in the ease of the 
hook of Enoch. Liieke {V'ersneh einer vollst. Einl. etch- 
ed. 2, i, 209) places it in the time of Csesar; Van der 
Vlis {Disput. crit. 1. c.) shortly after the death of Cae- 
sar. Laurence {l. c.) brings it down somewhat lower, 
to B.C. 28-25, and Ililgenfcld {.Tud. Apokr. p. 221) 
agrees with this conclusion, though he arrives at it by 
very different reasoning. On the other hand, Gfrorer 
{Jahrh. d. Ileils , i, 69 sq.) assigns the hook to the time 
of Domitian, and in this he is followed by Wieseler and 
by Bauer (Liieke, p. 189 sq.), while Liieke, in his first 
edition, bad regarded it as the work of a Hellenist of 
the time of Trajan. The interpretation of the details 
of the vision ot’ the eagle, which furnishes the chief 
data for determining the time of its composition's ex- 
tremely uncertain, from the difficulty of regarding the 


ESDRAS 


296 


ESDRAS 


history of the period from the point of view of (he an- ' 
thor ; and this difficulty is increased by the allusion to 
the desolation of Jerusalem, which maybe merely sug- 
gested by the circumstances of Ezra, the imaginary 
author; or, on the contrary, the last destruction of Je- 
rusalem may have suggested Ezra as the medium of 
the new revelation. (Comp. Fabrieius, Cod. Pseudep. 

ii, p. 189 sq., and Liicke, p. 187, n., sq., for a summary 
of the earlier opinions on the composition of the book.) 
Hut no two expositors agree in their explanation of 
the vision in cli. xi and xii, and every one finds in the 
“three heads,” the “twelve feathered wings,” and 
the “eight counter-feathers” such emperors, kings, 
and demagogues as will square with his preconceived j 
notions as to what they shall describe. So, for instance, ’ 
the learned AVhiston makes the three heads to mean 
the kingdom of France since Francis the Great, A.D. 
1515: of Spain since Ferdinand, the author of the In- 
quisition, A. L). 1408; and the house of Austria since 
the emperor Albert, A.D. 1438 — all of whom persecuted 
the Protestants ( Authen . Records, i, 81). The safest 
and most satisfactory data for determining its age are 
— 1. The quotations from it in the epistle of St. Barna- 
bas (eh. xii with 2 Ezra v, 3) and in Clemens Alexan- 
drinus (Strom, iii, 10), showing beyond doubt that the 
book was well known at the commencement of the 
Christian aera, and must therefore have been written 
some time before to have obtained such general cur- 
rency and acceptance ; and, 2. The minute description 
which the writer gives of the pre-existence and death 
of the Messiah (vii, 29; xiv, 7), sneli as no Jew would 
have given at the very outset of Christianity, to which 
we have traced the book, when these very points were 
the stumbling-block to the ancient people, and formed 
the points of contest between Judaism and Christian- 
ity, thus showing that it must have been written be- 
fore Christ. AVe may therefore safely assign it to 
about B.C. 50. 

But, while tiie date of the book must be left unde- 
termined, there can be no doubt that it is a genuine 
product of Jewish thought. AVeissc ( Evangclienfrage , 
p. 222) alone dissents on this point from the unanimous 
judgment of recent scholars (llilgenfeld, p.190 sq.) ; 
and the contrast between the tone and style of the 
Christian interpolations and the remainder of the book 
is in itself sufficient to prove the fact. The Apoca- 
lypse was probably written in Egypt; the opening 
and closing chapters certainly were. 

A". Canonicity and Importance. — By many of the fa- 
thers this book was undoubtedly regarded as canoni- 
cal. The quotation from it in the epistle of Barnabas 
is described as the saying of a prophet (ch. xii); the 
quotation by Clemens Alexandrinus is introduced in 
the same manner ("Eorp«e o 7roo0>)r//£ Xeyet, Strom. 

iii, 1G); and Ambrose speaks of it as containing divine 
revelations ( De Bono Mortis , x, xi). The famous story 
about Ezra being inspired to write again the law, 
which was burned (xiv, 20-48), lias been quoted by 
Ire mens (adv. llmr. iii, 21, 2); Tertullian (De Cult, 
ferm. i, 3) ; Clemens Alexandrinus (Stromat. i, 22) ; 
Chrysostom (Hom'd, viii in Heb.'), and many others. 
The Ethiopian Church regards it as canonical, which 
may he seen from the manner in which it is alluded to 
in the Book of Devotions called “The Organon of the 
blessed A r irgin Alary” (written in A.D. 1240), “ Open 
my mouth to praise the virginity of the mother of 
God, as them didst open the mouth of Ezra, who rested 
not for forty days until he had finished writing the 
words of the law and the prophets, which Nebuchad- 
nezzar, king of Babylon, had burnt” (Prayer for Mon- 
day ; see also Prayer for Tuesday). St. Jerome was 
the first who denounced it. In reply to A T igilantius, 
who, regarding this book as inspired, appealed to xii, 
3G-45, to prove that “none would venture to'intercede 
for others in the day of judgment, ” this, father, play- 
ing upon the name A'igilantius, remarked, “ Tu vigi- 
lans dormis, et dormiens scribis, et propiuas mihi li- J 


brum apocryphum, qui sub nomine Esdrce a te et simVibus 
tui leejitur , ubi scriptum est, quod post mortem milltis 
pro aliis gaudeat deprecari, quern ego librum nun- 
quam legt, quid enim necesse est in manus sumere, 
quod Ecclesia von recepit. Nisi forte Balsamum et 
Barbelum, et tbesaurum Alanichaii, et lidicuUnn no- 
men Leusibova? proferas; et quia radices I\\ remei ha- 
bitus, vicinusque es Iliberiaj, Basilidis, antiquissimi 
hawetici, et impolitic scientia incredibilia portenta 
prosequeris, et proponis, quoad totius orlis auctoritate 
damnatur ’ (Ep. liii ad Vigilant.). This is a most im- 
portant passage, inasmuch as it shows that those of 
the primitive Church who, from their knowledge of 
Hebrew, had the best means of ascertaining wliat were 
the canonical Scriptures of the ancient synagogue, re- 
pudiated this book as uncanonieal. In the Council of 
Trent, the second Ezra, like the first, was excluded 
from the canon, and Luther denounced it as worse 
than yEsop’s Fables. See Esdras, First Book of. 
But this 'is going too far. Ilistoricc-critical expositors 
of the Bible, and those who are engaged in Christclog- 
ical works, while regarding 2 Esdras as not belonging 
to the Canon, yet see in it a most important record of 
Jewish opinion on some vital points. It shows that 
the Jews, before the vise of Christianity, most distinct- 
ly believed in the immortality of the soul, that the 
Alessiah was denominated the Son of Cod , that he ex- 
isted in heaven previous to his appearance upon earth 
I (xiv, 7), and that he was to die (vii, 29). 

One tradition which the book contains obtained a 
wide reception in early times, and served as a pendant 
I to the legend of the origin of the Septuagint. Ezra, it is 
] said, in answer to bis prayer that he might be inspired 
to write again all the law which was burnt, received a 
j command to take with him tablets and five men, and 
retire for forty days. In this retirement a cup was 
1 given him to drink, and forthwith his understanding 
was quickened and his memory strengthened ; and for 
forty days and forty nights he dictated to his scribes, 
who wrote ninety-four books (Latin, 204), of which 
twenty-four were delivered to the people in place of 
the hooks which wore lort (xiv, 20-48). This strange 
story was repeated in various forms hy Irenaeus (adv. 
liar, iii, 21, 2), Tertullian (De cult. fain, i, 3, “Omne in- 
; strumentmn Judaicrc literatune per Esdram constat 
! restauratum”), Clement of Alexandria (Strom, i, ‘22, p. 

| -110, P. ; compare p. 392), Jerome (adv. Helv. 7 ; comp. 
rseudo-Augustine, De Mirab. S. Scr. ii, 32\ and many 
others; and probably owed its origin to the tradition 
which regarded Ezra as the representative of the men 
of “the Great Synagogue” (q. v.), to whom the final 
revision of the canonical hooks was universally assign- 
ed in early times. See Canon. 

Although Esdras is included in the Gth article of the 
Clmrcli of England, among the other books read for 
I edification, etc. [see Dei tero-Canonical], it will be 
observed that no lessons are taken from it in the offi- 
ces of the Church of England. Deferences are, how- 
ever, made from it in the Authorized A'crsion to par- 
allel passages in the Old and New Testament. Grabe 
and others have conceived that this was the book cited 
as the “ Wisdom of God ” (Luke xi, 9 ; comp, with 4 Es- 
' dras i, 32). 

V I . Literature. — Lee, Dissertation upon the second 
Book of Esdras (Bond. 1722) ; AVhiston, A uthentic Rec- 
ords (Loud. 1727), i, 44 sq. ; A’an dor ATis, Disputatio 
Critica de Ezne Libra Apocn/pho (Amst. 1839): Gfro- 
rer, Das Jahrhundert des lleil$ (Stuttgart, 1838), i, C9 
sq. , and Propheter ret ere s Pseudep >g rapid (Stuttgart, 
1840), p. GG sq. ; Liicke, Einhitnng in d.Ofenbarung Jo - 
haunts, 2d ed., p. 138 sq. ; Davidson, The Old Testament 
Text Considered (Loud. 3856), p. 990 sq. ; llilgenfeld, 
Die jiidische Apokalyptik (Jena, 3857), p. 187 sq. ; A'olk- 
niar, Das vie tie- Pitch Ezra (Zurich, 1858) ; Keil, Ein- 
leitung in d. Alte Testament (1859, 1863), p. 734 sq. ; Tre- 
senreutcr, De tibro quarto Esdnc (Gobi. 1742); A'ogel, 
•De quarto libro Esdrce (in his Progr. de Conjectural usu 


ESHEAN 


ESEBON 297 


in c?isi X. T. p. 48 sq.) ; Ewald, Das vierie Ezrabuch 1 
(Gott. 18C4) ; Calmet, Sur le quatri'eme litre d'Esdras 
(in his Comment ai re, iii, 253 sq.) ; Greswell, Second 
Book of Esdras (in his Parables, V, ii, 280 sq.). The 
book has been the subject of a prolonged discussion, 
especially by Hilgenfeld in the Zeitschr.f. wiss. Thcol. 
1858-G7. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Es'ebon, They op (oi ’EoefimnTai v. r. ot ’E<te- 
(3iov, Vulg. Ilesebon ), a Gnecized form of the name of 
certain Canaanites beyond Jordan referred to in the 
Apocrypha (Jud. v, 15) as having been destroyed by 
the Israelites; evidently the inhabitants of IIesiibon 
( q. v.) of the 0. T. (Nnni. xxi, 2G). 

Ese'brias {’Eatpeftiag, Vulg. Sedebias), the first 
named of the ten priests separated with ten others by 
Ezra to transport the silver and gold from Babylon to 
Jerusalem (1 Esd. viii, 54) ; evidently the Sherebiaii 
( q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra viii, 24). 

E'sek (Heb. id. p'Z“, quarrel; Sept, and Vulg. 
translate 'At) ncia, calumnia, as if reading p'OV), a well 
(“iN2) containing a spring of water, which the herds- 
men of Isaac dug in the valley of Gerar, and which re- 
ceived its name because the herdmen of Gerar quar- 
relled (^pw^rri, wrangled, Sept. i)o'iKt)oap,X ulg. evas- 
ively, A. V. “strove;” but different from the 
of the preceding clause, tfiax>)vavro, jurgium fuit , 
“strove”) with him for the possession of it (Gen. xxvi, 
20). Isaac seems to have therefore relinquished it. It 
appears not to have been one of those which Abraham 
had previously dug (ver. 18 ; the contest there was a 
question of title , here of possession'). There are still 
several wells in this vicinity. See Gerar. 

Esh'baal [some Esh-ba' al~\ (Heb. Esbaf 
in pause man of Baal; Sept. 'Atr«/3«\ v. r. 

’Ief3d\ and 1j««A, Vulg. Esbaal ), the appropriate name 
of the fourth son of king Saul, according to the gene- 
alogy of 1 Chron. viii, 33 and ix, 30. He is doubtless 
the same person (see 1 Sam. xxxi, 2, compared with 2 
Sam. ii, 8) as Ish-bosiietii (q. v.), since it was the 
practice to change the obnoxious name of Baal into 
Boslieih or Besheth, as in the case of Jerub-besheth for 
Jerub-baal, and (in this very genealogy) of Merib-baal 
for Mephi-bosheth : compare also II os. ix, 10, where 
Bosheth (A.V. “shame”) appears to be used as a syn- 
onym for Baal. See Baal. 

Esh'ban (Ileb. Eshban', man of considera- 

tion; Sept. ’Aoefidv and ’Etrefiuv v. r. ’Aoefidjr, Vulg. 
Esebcni), the second named of the four sons of Dislum 
(Gen. xxxvi, 2G, A.V. “Dishon”) or Dishon (1 Chron. 
i, 41), the son of Seir the llorite. B. C. post 19G3. 

Esh'col (Ileb. EshkoV , bz'ZX [twice plene >12 w'X, 
Num. xiii, 24 ; xxxiii, 9], a bunch of grapes), the name 
of a man and also of a place. 

1. (Sept. 'E<7\wX, Josephus Vulg. Eschcl .) 

A young Amoritish chieftain, who, with his brothers 
Mamre and Aner, being in alliance with Abraham, 
when the latter resided near Hebron, joined him in the 
recovery of Lot from the hands of Chedorlaomer and 
his confederates (Gen. xiv, 13, 24 ; comp, xiii, In). 
B.C. cir. 2085. According to Josephus {Ant. i, 10, 
2) he was the foremost of the three brothers, but the 
Bible narrative leaves this quite uncertain (comp. ver. 
13 with 24). Some have thought that the name of Esh- 
col remained attached to one of the fruitful valleys in 
that district till the arrival of the Israelites (Num. 
xiii, 24), who then interpreted the appellation as sig- 
nificant of the gigantic “cluster” (in Hebr. eshcol) 
which they obtained there; but this docs not accord 
with the independent origin of the latter name as as- 
signed in the narrative (see below). 

2. A wady (brt, winter-torrent ; Sept, and Vulg. 
[translating likewise the name itself] (papal fiurpvog, 
vallis botri , or [Nnm. xiii, 24] Xehelescol; A. V. “ brook” 


and “valley”) in which the Hebrew spies obtained the 
line cluster of grapes which they took back with them, 
borne “on a staff between two,” as a specimen of the 
fruits of the Promised Land (Num. xiii, 24). The 
cluster was doubtless large; but the fact that it was 
carried in this manner does not, as usually understood, 
imply that the bunch was as much as two men could 
carry, seeing that it was probably so carried to prevent 
its being bruised in the journey. See Grape. From 
the fact that the name had existed in this neighbor- 
hood centuries before, when Abraham lived there with 
the chiefs Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre, not Hebrews, but 
Amorites (see Gen. xiv, 13), many have supposed that 
the appellation in this instance (“ because of the clus- 
ter,” Sept, fiorpvg, Vulg. torrens botri ) was 

merely the Hebrew way of appropriating the ancient 
name derived from that hero into the language of the 
conquerors, consistently with the paronomastic turns 
so much in favor at that time, and with a practice 
traces of which are deemed to appear elsewhere ; but it 
is more probable that the same reason which led the 
Israelites to apply to the valley such a designation, 
had operated also among the original possessors of the 
soil. In that c; se the Amoritish chieftain may have 
been so called (that dialect being doubtless akin to the 
Heb.) from his fertile region. From the terms of two 
of the notices of this transaction (Num. xxxii, 9 ; Deut. 
i, 24), it might be inferred that Eshcol was the farthest 
point to which the spies penetrated; but this would 
contradict the express statement of Num. xiii, 21, 
that they went as far northward as Behob. They 
must, therefore, either have carried the bunch of 
grapes this whole distance and back, or, as is more 
likely, they cut it on their return. From the context 
(Num. xiii, 22), the valley in question seems to have 
been in the vicinity of Hebron. Accordingly, the val- 
ley through which lies the commencement of the road 
from Hebron to Jerusalem is traditionally indicated 
as that of Eshcol. This valley is now full of vine- 
yards and olive-yards, the former chiefly in the val- 
ley itself, the latter up the sides of the inclosing hills. 
“These vineyards are still very fine, and produce the 
finest and largest grapes in all the country” (Robinson, 
Researches, i, 317). Eusebius, however {Onomast. s. v. 
(pdpayl fiorpvoc), places it, with some hesitation, at 
Gophna, 15 miles north of Jerusalem, on the Neapolis 
road. By Jerome it is given as north of Ilebron, oil 
the road to Bcthsur {Epitaph. Paulce). The Jewish 
traveller Ha-Parchi speaks of it as north of the moun- 
tain on which the (ancient) city of Ilebron stood (Ben- 
jamin of Tudela, ed. Asher, ii, 437) ; and here the name 
has apparently been observed still attached to a spring 
of remarkably fine water called ’ Ain-Eskali, in a valley 
which crosses the vale of Hebron north-east and south- 
west, and about two miles north of the town (Van de 
Velde, Narrative, ii, G4). Dr. Rosen, however, still 
more recently, wiites the name as Ain el-Rushkula 
{Zeitschr. d. mo r gen l . Gesellsck. 1858, p. 481). 

Esh'ean [some E'sheari] (Heb. Eshan ', a 

prop ; Sept. ’Eactv v. r. 2o/<«, Vulg. Esaan), a city in 
the mountains of Judah, mentioned between Dumali 
and Janum (Josh, xv, 52), situated in the group west 
by south of Ilebron (Keil, Comment, in loc.). Van de 
Velde thinks ( Memoir , p. 310, 311) the place may be 
the same as Ashan (q. v.) ; but this is inadmissible, 
partly because of the difference in the name (“'ITZ), and 
partly because the only Ashan mentioned in Scripture 
lay in the low country (Josh, xv, 42; comp. ver. 33), 
while Eshean is expressly placed in the hill country 
of Judah (ver. 48, 52). To escape this last and fatal 
objection, Van de Velde follows Von Raumer {Paldst. 
p. 173) in supposing two Ashans, one in the mountains 
of Judah, and the other in the southern plain of Pales- 
tine, belonging to Simeon ; but that the Ashan of Ju- 
dah ami that of Simeon were one and the same, is evi- 
dent from comparing Josh, xv, 42 and xix, 9, where 


ESIIEK 


298 


ESKRIDGE 


Ether appears as in the vicinity of both, and Josh, xix, 

7 with 1 Chron. iv, 32, where the same is the case with 
Ain-Rimmon. Still, although Eshean cannot thus be 
identified with the Chor-ashan of 1 Sam. xxx, 30, we 
may perhaps adopt Van do Velde’s location of the 
former at the ruins of Khursa (Robinson's Researches , 
iii, Append, p. 116), not far south-west of Hebron 
(Stewart, Tent , p. 224). 

E'shek (Heb. id. prr, oppression ; Sept. ’EotXU 
v. r. ’Ao7/A, Vulg. Esec). brother of Azel (q. v.), a Bcn- 
jnmite, one of the late descendants of king Saul ; he 
was the father of several sons, among them Ulam, the 
founder of a large and noted family of archers, lit. 
“t readers of the bow” (1 Chron. viii, 39). I3.C. ante 

588. They are omitted in the parallel list of 1 Chron. 
ix, 35-4-1. 

Eshel. See Tamarisk. 

Esh'kalonite (Ileb. collect, with the art. ha-Esh- 
Jceloni', Sept. 6 ’AoKaXwvirrjc, Vulg. Asca- 

lonitee, A. V. “ the Eslikalonites”), the patrial designa- 
tion (Josh, xiii, 3) of the inhabitants of Asiikelon 
(q. v.). 

Esh'taol (Heb. EshtaoV , [but defect- 
ively in Judg. xiii, 25; xviii, 2, 8, 11], ac- 

cording to Eiirst, narrow pass, but Gesenius suggests 
perhaps petition ; Sept. ’Ao^niOA v. r. [in Judg. xiii, 5] 
’£<r3«6A, Vulg. EAhuol or [in Josh, xv, 33] Estaol ), a 
town in the low country of Judah, the Shephclah or 
plain of Philistia. It is the first of the first group of 
cities in that district (Josh, xv, 33) enumerated with 
Zoreah (Heb. Eure ah), or Zorah, in company with 
which it is commonly mentioned. Zorah and Eshtaol 
were two of the towns allotted to the tribe of Dan out 
of Judah (Josh, xix, 41). Between them, and behind 
Kirjath-jearim, was situated Makaneh-Dan, the camp 
or stronghold which formed the head-quarters of that 
little community during their const;. nt encounters with 
the Philistines. Eshtaol was one of the great strong- 
holds of the Danites, and its inhabitants, with those 
of Zorah, were noted for their daring. See Dax. The 
COO men who captured and colonized Laish were na- 
tives of these two towns (Judg. xviii). Here, among 
the old warriors of the tribe, Samson spent his boy- 
hood, and experienced the first impulses of the Spirit 
of Jehovah; and hither, after his last exploit, his 
mangled body was brought, up the long slopes of the 
western hills to its last rest in the burving-place of 
Manoah his father (Judg. xiii, 25 ; xvi, 31 ; xviii, 2, 8, 
11,12). In the genealogical records of 1 Chron. the 
relationship between Eshtaol, Zareah, and Kirjath- 
jearim is still maintained (1 Chron. ii, 53). In the 
Onomasticon of Eusebius and Jerome (s. v. ’A<t3«<oA 
and ’EoSaov A), Eshtaol is twice mentioned — (1) as As- 
taol of Judah, described as then existing between Azo- 
tus and Ascalon under the name of Astho (’A<t 3 ce) ; 
(2) as Esihanl of Dan, ten miles north of Eleuthcropo- 
lis. The latter position is quite in accordance with 
the indications of the Bible. It is connected with 
Zorah, Zanoah, and Bcthshcmesh (Josh, xv, 33; xix, 
41); and as these three places have been identified, 
we may conclude that Eshtaol was situated close to 
the foot of the mountains of Judah, and in or near 
wady Surar. Schwarz (Palest, p. 102) mentions a vil- 
lage named Stucil, west of Zorah, but, apart from the 
fact that this is corroborated by no other traveller and 
by no map, the situation is too far west to be “behind 
Kirjath-jearim” if the latter be Kuryct cl-Enab. The 
village marked on the maps of Robinson and Van de 
Velde, as Yeshva , and alluded to by the former (Re- 
searches, new ed., iii, 151, who states that the name is 
pronounced Eshmi ), is nearer the requisite position. 
Veshua lies at the eastern extremity of the broad val- 
ley which runs up among the hills between Zorah and 
Bethshemesh. The mountains rise sleep and rugged 
immediately behind it, but the village is encompassed 


by fruitful fields and orchards. Zorah occupies the 
top of a conical hill scarcely two miles westward, and 
a lower ridge connects the hill with the mountains at 
Veshua. Upon that ridge the permanent camp, or 
gathering-place of Dan (Judg. xiii, 25) was probably 
fixed (Robinson, Later Res. p. 153 sq.). — Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. See Maiiaxeii-Dan. 

Esh'taiilite [many Esh' taulite] (Heb. collect, with 
the art. ha-Eshtauli' , Sept, ot ’Eo-^aoiAmoi 

v. r. inoi ’Eo^aa^.Vulg. Esthaolitce , A.V . “the Eshtau- 
lites”), the designation of the inhabitants of Eshtaol 
(q. v.), who, with the Zareathites, were at a later pe- 
riod among the families of Kirjath-jearim (1 Chron. ii, 
53). 

Esktemo'a [many Eshtern oa] (Heb. Esktemo'd , 
ri'ir.w'S; [but defectively in 1 Chron.], obe- 

dience; Sept, in Josh, xxi, 14 ’Ea^epw, in 1 Sam. ’Ea- 
3te, in 1 Chron. iv, 17, 19 ’Ect Saiptov v. r. ’EoStpiov 
and ’EaSijpiov}), in 1 Chron. vi, 57 [42] ’EoSafub v. r. 
’E(t fapub ; Vulg. Esthamo , but Estemo in Josh., and 
Esthemo in 1 Chron. vi) or Esh/temoh (Heb. Eskte- 
moh ' , n^rr^JS:, by an interchange of final gutturals, 
Josh, xv, 50; Sept. 'Eo^t/hO, Vulg. Istemo), a town of 
Judah, in the mountains; mentioned between Jattir 
and Holon (Josh, xxi, 14 ; 1 Chron. vi, 57), and be- 
tween Anab and Anim (Josh, xv, 50). With its 
“suburbs” Eshtemoa was allotted to the priests (Josh, 
xxi, 14; 1 Chron. vi, 57). It was one of the places 
frequented by David and his followers during the long 
period of their wanderings ; and to his friends there 
lie sent presents of the spoil of the Amalekites (1 Sam. 
xxx, 28; comp. ver. 31). In the lists — half genea- 
logical, half topographical — of the descendants of Ju- 
dah, Eshtemoa occurs as having been founded or re- 
built by an Ezrahite called lshbah (1 Chron. iv, 17) 
(q. v.), perhaps the same with Kaham of ver. 19 [sec 
Merep], where the place has the dubious epithet of 
“ Maachathite” (q. v.). Others, however, regard the 
Eshtemoa there named as a person from Maaehah. 
Eusebius and Jerome simply mention the place as “a 
very large village” in the Daroma, in the province 
of Eleutheropolis (Onomast. s. v. ’EcrSe/id, Esthemo). 
There is little doubt that it has been discovered by Dr. 
Robinson at Seniu'a , a village seven or eight miles 
south of llebron, on the great road from el-AIilh, con- 
taining considerable ancient remains, and in the neigh- 
borhood of other villages still bearing the names of its 
companions in the list of Josh, xv: Debir, Socoli, Jat- 
tir, etc., and itself the last inhabited place toward the 
desert ( Researches , ii, 194; ccmp. Schwarz, Ralest. p. 
105). It is a considerable village, situated on a low 
hill, with broad valleys round about; not susceptible 
of much tillage, but full of flocks and herds all in fine 
order. In several places there are remains of walls 
built of very large stones, bevelled, but left rough in 
the middle, several of them more than ten feet in 
length. There are the ruins of a castle at this place, 
with one tower tolerably perfect, but it is probably of 
Saracenic origin (Robinson, Researches , ii, 627 ; Wil- 
son, Lands of Bible, i, 355). A city Shema is also men- 
tioned in the south of Judah (Josh, xv, 26); too far 
south, however, to correspond to Scmua. 

Es'hton (Heb. Eshton ‘pirrSi, according to Ce- 
senius uxorious , according to Eiirst careless; Sept. ’Acr- 
(raSrtbr, Vulg. Esthoii), a son of Mehir, and grandson 
of Cholub, of the tribe of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 11). B.C. 
ante 1618. Among his four sons and one grandson 
enumerated (ver. 12) as “the men of Recall,” two 
(Beth-rapha and Ir-nahash) seem, however, to be rath- 
er names of places. 

Eskridge, Verxox, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church (South), was horn in Westmoreland 
County, Va., Get. 26, 1803. His early education was 
neglected, and on this account he hesitated to enter 
the ministry, to which he felt strong leanings ; but on 


ESLI 


299 


ESPEN 


the death of his young wife and child lie hesitated no 
longer, and ill 1827 he began to preach as an itinerant 
minister. In this service he labored faithfully until 
1837, when ill health compelled him to retire from the 
itineracy, though he still preached diligently as his 
health would allow. In 1851 he was appointed chap- 
lain in the U. S. Navy, and during his service in the 
Cumberland in 1852 some twenty were converted, in- 
cluding captain Upshur. On his return to Portsmouth, 
Va., the yellow fever was raging there, lie devoted 
himself night and day to the service of the sick, and 
on Sept. 4, 1855, he was taken with the disease, ancl 
died Sept. 11. — Sprague, Annals, vii, 735. 

Es'li (’EcrXi v. r. *E<rAei), son of Naggai and father 
of Naum, of the maternal ancestors of Christ after the 
exile (Luke iii, 25); apparently identical with Elioe- 
nai, the son of Meariah and father of Jolianan (1 
Chron. iii, 23, 24). See Genealogy (of Christ). 

Esne, Esna, or Esneh, “ the hieroglyphic Sen, 
and the Greek Latopolis or LattunpoKs — the city 
of the latus fish or Lotus nohilis, from the fish there 
worshipped — is a small and badly-built town of Upper 
Egypt, and is situated on the left bank of the Nile, in 
lat. 25° 15' N. The central portion of Esne has edi- 
fices of colored brick. It contains about 4000 inhabi- 
tants, of whom 1500 are Copts, and has some manufac- 
tories of blue cotton and pottery. There are famous 
ruins at Esne, which consist of a sandstone temple, 
with a portico of four rows of six columns, which ap- 
pears to have been founded by Thothmes III, whose 
name is seen on the jambs of a door. The temple, 
however, seems to have been restored or principally 
constructed by Ptolemy Euergetes (B.C. 24(3-222), and 
the pronaos was erected in the reign of the emperor 
Claudius (A.D. 41-54), and completed in that of Ves- 
pasian. The interior is of the date of Trajan, the An- 
tonines, and Geta, whose name, erased or replaced by 
that of Caracalla, is there found. The great temple 
was dedicated to Chnumis, Satis, and Har-Hek. It 
has a zodiac like that of Dendcrah, formerly thought 
to be of the most remote antiquit}’', but now known to 
be no older than the Romans. A smaller temple with 
a zodiac, erected in the reign of Ptolemy Euergetes, 
formerly stood at E’Deyr, miles north of Esne, but 
it has been destroyed. At Esne is also a stone quay, 
bearing the names of M. Aurelius. This city was the 
capital of a nome, and the coins struck in it in the 
reign of Hadrian (A.D. 127-128) represent the fish la- 
tus. See Champollion, Not. Descrip. p. 283; "Wilkinson, 
Mod. Egypt, ii, 208; Tochon d’ Annecy, Medailles .” — 
Chambers, Encyclopedia, s. v. 

Esnig (or Esnag, Eznig, Eznag), one of the 
most prominent men of the Armenian Church. He 
was horn in 397, at Gochp or Golp, a place near 
Mount Ararat, and was one of the pupils of the pa- 
triarch Isaak and of Saint Mesrop. As he was ac- 
quainted with the Syrian language, lie was sent in 
425, together with Joseph of Palin, to Edessa, in order 
to translate the writings of the Syrian Church fathers 
into Armenian. After finishing this work they went 
to Constantinople, learned the Greek language, and 
began the translation of Greek works. On returning 
home in 431 they took with them many writings of 
Greek fathers, the acts of the synods of Nice and Eph- 
esus, and a correct copy of the Alexandrine version. 
From the latter the Armenian version of the Bible, in 
which Esnig co-operated, was made. Many other the- 
ological works were translated by him, and he is one 
of the six learned Armenians to whom the honorary 
title “ Targmanitschk” (translators) was given. In 
449 Esnig was present at the national synod of Arta- 
cliad, which replied to the Persian king’s demand upon 
the Armenians to embrace the doctrine of Zoroaster. 
He died about 478, as bishop of Bagrewand. Besides 
the numerous translations of foreign works, Esnig 
wrote an original work against heresies. It is divided 


into four hooks, of which the first is directed against 
the pagans, the second against the Parsees, the third 
against the Greek philosophers, and the fourth against 
the Marcionitcs and Manichaians. This work contains 
some valuable information on the Parsees and on the 
system of Marcion which is not known from any other 
source. It has been published at Smyrna (17G2) and 
at Venice (382G), and a French translation has ap- 
peared by Le A r aillant de Florival (. Refutation des dif- 
ferent Secies des paiens, Paris, 1853. Parts of it have 
been translated into German by Neumann (in Jhrmcs , 
vol. xxxiii, and in Zeitschrift far hist or. Thcoloy. 1834) 
and by Dr. Windischiminn fJayiische Annalen, 1834), 
and into Latin by Dr. Petermann (in his grammat. ling. 
Armen, p. 44-48). A Latin translation of the whole 
work was promised by the distinguished Orientalist, 
Dr. Windischiminn, hut it has never appeared. An 
appendix to the Venice edition contains a “collection 
of sentences drawn from the Greek fathers, and in par- 
ticular from St. Nilus.” In point of style, Esnig is 
counted among the classics of Armenian literature. — 
Herzog, Real-Ennjldop. iv, 1G3 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Blog. 
Gen. xvi, 88G; Wetzer u.AVelte, Kircken-Lex. iii, 711; 
Neumann, Versuck tiner Gesch. der armcn. Lit. (Tub. 
1841). (A. J. S.) 

Eso'ra (properly iEsoRA, Airnopd, Vulg. omits), a 
place fortified by the Jews on the approach of the As- 
syrian army under Holofernes (J udith i v, 4). The name 
may be the representative of the Hebrew word Hazor 
or Zoraii (Simonis, Onom. N. T. p. 19). The Syriac 
reading ( Bethchorn ) suggests Betii-horon, which is 
not impossible. 

Esoteric (Greek Eowepi/cof), scientific as opposed 
to popular; applied, especially with regard to the an- 
cient mysteries, to doctrines taught only to the initia- 
ted, as distinguished from exoteric (c£w, without') doc- 
trines, which could be taught to the vulgar and unin- 
itiated. “The philosophy of the Pythagoreans, like 
that of the other sects, was divided into the exoteric 
ancl the esoteric ; the open, taught to all ; and the se- 
cret, taught to a select number” ( Warhurton , Dio. Leg. 
bk. ii, note B B). “According to Origen, Anlus Gel- 
lius, Porphyry, ancl Jambliclms, the distinction of eso- 
teric ancl exoteric among the Pythagoreans was applied 
to the disciples, according to the degree of initiation 
to which they had attained, being fully admitted into 
the society, or being merely postulants (Ritter, Ilist. 
Philos., French transl., i, 248). Plato is said to have 
had doctrines which he taught publicly to all, ancl oth- 
er doctrines which he taught only to a few, in secret. 
There is no allusion to such a distinction of doctrines 
in the writings of Plato. Aristotle ( Physica , iv, 2) 
speaks of opinions of Plato which were not written. 
But it does not follow that these were secret. Aristo- 
tle himself frequently speaks of some of his writings 
as exoteric, ancl others as acroamatic or esoteric. The 
former treat of the same subjects as the latter, but in 
a popular and elementary way, while the esoteric are 
more scientific in their form ancl matter (Ravaisson, 
Essai stir la Metaph. d'A ristote, t. i, c. i ; Tucker, Light 
of Nature , vol. ii. ch. ii).” — Fleming, Vocabulary of 
Philosophy, s. v. 

Espen, Zeger Bernhard van, one of the most 
celebrated writers on the ecclesiastical law in the 18th 
century, was born at Louvain July 9, 1G46. He stud- 
ied theology and philosophy at the university of his 
native city, ancl after having been ordained priest in 
1G73, he was two years later made Doctor Juris (doc- 
tor of law), ancl appointed professor of canonical law 
at the Collegium Adrianum at the University. He 
lived very retired, devoting his whole time to study; 
but such became soon his reputation that he was 
consulted by a number of princes, bishops, tribunals,, 
and learned corporations. Many of his opinions, how* 
ever, particularly on the Congregation of the Index, 
on dispensations, immunities, exemptions, the roya2 


ESPOUSALS 


300 


ESS 


placet, and the appeal from the ecclesiastical to civil 
power, were not favorable to the pretensions of the 
popes, and in 1704 and 1734 all his works were put 
on the Index. Ilis defense of the consecration of a 
Jansenist archbishop at Utrecht caused in 1728 his sus- 
pension from all priestly functions, as well as from 
his chair at (he University. All demands made upon 
him by the archbishop of Malines to revoke his opin- 
ions he firmly refused. He fled to Amcrsfort, a common 
refuge of Jansenist exiles, where he died Oct. 2, 1728, 
at the advanced age of 82 years. Van Espen is univer- 
sally classed among the ablest writers on ecclesiastical 
law, and even pope Benedict did not withhold a recog- 
nition of his ability. The best edition of his works is 
the one published by Bareli {Jus Ecclesiasticum Uni - 
versum, 5 vols. Louvain, 1753-65 ; also Cologne, 1777, 5 
vols. ; Aleut z, 1701, 3 vols.). An abstract of this work 
was published by Oberhauscr (Augsburg, 1782 ; Cilli, 
1701). — AVetzcr u.AA'elte, Kirch. -Lex. iii, 711 ; Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Gener. xvi, 410; Herzog, Real-Encykl. iv, 
1G4; G. du Pac de Bellegarde, Vie tie Van E$ 2 >en (Lou- 
vain, 1707). (A. J. S.) 

Espousals. 1. Among the Jews this was the cer- 
emony of betrothing, or coming under obligation for 
the purpose of marriage, and was a mutual agreement 
between the parties which usually preceded the mar- 
riage some time. The espousals frequently took place 
years before the parties were married. Sec Betroth- 
al; Marriage. 

2. In the early Christian Church espousals differed 
from marriage. The two terms arc in early writers 
sponsalia and nuptice. Certain preliminaries were nec- 
essary before persons could complete a marriage : 
they consisted in a mutual contract or agreement be- 
tween the parties concerning their marriage to be per- 
formed within a certain limited time, which contract 
was confirmed by certain gifts or donations, called cu'~ 
rhte or tirrJiabones , the earnest of marriage ; as also by 
a ring, a kiss, a dowry, a writing or instrument of dow- 
ry, with a sufficient number of witnesses to attest it. 
The free consent of parties contracting marriage was 
declared necessary by the old Homan law, which was 
confirmed by Diocletian, and inserted by Justinian in 
his code. When the contract was made, it was usual 
for the man to bestow presents on the woman : these 
were sometimes called sponsalia, espousals, and some- 
times sponsalitice donaticnes , espousal-gifts, or arrhtp 
and p'gnora, pledges of future marriage, because the 
giving and receiving them was a confirmation of the 
contract. These donations were publicly recorded. 
The ring was then presented to the woman as a fur- 
ther confirmation of the contract, and docs not appear 
to have been given in the actual solemnization of 
marriage. Bingham, in proof of this, quotes the words 
of pope Nicholas I, and also refers to Ambrose and 
Tcrtuilian. The origin of the marriage-ring has been 
traced to the tenth century, and is supposed to have 
been introduced in imitation of the ring worn by bish- 
ops. Isidorns llispalensis refers to the marriage-ring 
in this language: Quod avtem in nuptiis annulus a 
sponso sponsor datur , id Jit vel propter mutuee dilectionis 
signum , vel propter id magis . ut hoc pignore corda eorum 
jungantur ; wide ct quarto digito annulus i meritin ' , idt o 
quod vena qua. dam {lit ft rtur ) sanguinis atl cor usque 
perreniut : “The reason why a ring is given by the 
bridegroom to the bride is either as a mark of mutual 
love, or rather a pledge of the union of their hearts ; 
and the reason for its being placed on the fourth fin- 
ger is because a certain vein (as it is said A reaches 
thence to the heart.” The kiss was solemnly given, 
with the joining together of the hands of the betrothed. 
The dowry settled upon the woman was by a stipula- 
tion made in writing, or by public instruments under 
hand and seal. Chosen witnesses were present, the 
friends of each party, and tlreir number was generally 
ten. Occasionally a ministerial benediction was used 
in espousals as well as in marriage. See Marriage. 


— Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. ; Bingham, Orlg. Eccles. bk. 
xxii, ch. iii ; Pioctcr, On Common Prayer , p. 401. 

Espouse (properly ( ; -~i<, arasj 2 Sam. iii, 14, to 
betroth , as elsewhere rendered ; pinjartvopat, Matt, i, 
18; Luke i, 27 ; ii, 5; less correctly for cha- 

thunnali , Cant, iii, 11, nuptials ; rvbAs, kelulotli, Jer. 
ii, 2, the bridal state , i. e. condition of a bride before 
marriage ; rq)^o^o/i«i,2 Cor. xi, 2, to cause to he married , 
i. e. negotiate the match). Espousal was a ceremony of 
betrothing, or coming under obligation for the purpose 
of marriage, and was a mutual agreement between the 
two parties which usually preceded the marriage some 
considerable time. See Marriage. The reader will 
do well carefully to attend to the distinction between 
espousals and marriage, as espousals in the East are 
frequently contracted years before the parties are mar- 
ried, and sometimes in very early youth. This custom 
is alluded to figuratively, as between God and his peo- 
ple (Jer. ii, 2), to whom he was a husband (xxi,32), and 
the apostle says he acted as a kind of assistant ( pro - 
j nubci) on such an occasion : “ I have espoused you to 
j Christ” (2 Cor. xi, 2); have drawn up the writings, 
settled the agreements, given pledges, etc., of your 
union (compare Isa. liv, 5; Matt, xxv, 6; Kcv. xix). 
See Betrotii. 

Es'ril (’Eop<\ v. r. *Espi\,Vulg. omits), one of the 
Israelites, “sons of Ozora,” who divorced his Gentile 
wife after the exile (1 Esd. ix, 34) ; corresponding in 
position with the Siiarai (q. v.) of the Hebrew text 
(Ezra x, 40), although the form is confused with that 
of Azaclus— Azareel following it. 

Es'rom (’E trpwp v. r. Eopu?'), a Griecized form 
(Matt, i, 3; Luke iii, 35) of the name of IIezron (q. 
v.), the grandson of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 5). 

Ess, Karl van, a Homan Catholic theologian of 
Germany, was born at Warburg, in Westphalia, Sept. 
25, 1770. He entered the Benedictine order in 1788, 
and in 1801 became prior of the Abbey of Huysburg, 
near Ilalberstadt. Together with his cousin, Leander 
. van Ess (q. v.), he published a German translation of 
the Bible (Brunswick, 1807, and a great many editions 
since), which had an immense circulation until it was 
forbidden by the pope. Being appointed in 1811, by 
the bishop of Paderborn, episcopal commissary, he 
abandoned his liberal views. He wrote a brief history 
of religion {Entwvrf eincr kurzen Geschichte der Relig- 
! ion, Ilalberstadt, 1817), which called forth several re- 
plies. He died Oct. 22, 1824. — Herzog, Real-Encykl . 
xix, 488. (A. J. S.) 

Ess, Leander van, a Roman Catholic theologian 
of Germany, and cousin of the preceding one, was born 
I a' Warburg, in Westphalia, Feb. 15, 1772. At an early 
age lie entered the Benedictine abbey of Marienmun- 
ster, in the diocese of Paderborn. In 1813 lie was 
appointed pastor at Marburg, and extraordinary pro- 
! lessor at the university of that city; and later he also 
became assistant director of the normal school. No 
priest in the Roman Catholic Church of the 19th century 
showed so great a zeal for the circulation of the Bible 
j as Leander van Ess. Aided by liis cousin Karl (q. v.), 
lie prepared a German translation of the New Tes- 
; tament, and enlisted the British and Foreign Bible So- 
ciety in its circulation. A translation of the Old Tes- 
tament he published in 1819 (Nuremberg). He also 
published an edition of the Vulgate (1822), and an edi- 
tion of the Greek New Testament cut from the Vatican 
manuscript (1824). The pope was highly indignant at 
I his undertaking, and on this occasion issued one of the 
notorious papal bulls against Bible societies. Karl van 
j Ess timidly receded from his liberal position, but Lean- 
der bravely maintained it. lie resigned his offices at 
Marburg, and devoted his time chiefly to a literary de- 
fence of his efforts in circulating the Bible. He com- 
piled, to encourage Roman Catholic readers of the Bi- 
ble, “a selection from the works of Church fathers and 
other great Catholic writers concerning the necessary 


ESSENCE 


301 


ESSENES 


and useful reading of the Bible” ( Auszuye aus den heil. 
Vatern , etc., Leips. 1808) ; a Latin treatise on the au- 
thority of the original text of the Bible as compared 
with the Vulgate ( Pragmatica doctorum Catholicorum 
Trilenimi circa Vulgatum decrcti sensum testantium his- 
toria , Salzburg, 1816; in German, Tiib. 1824) ; and sev- 
eral other works, urging a frequent reading of the Bi- 
ble by the people (JFns war die Bible der ersten Chris- 
ten? 1816; Gedanken iiber Bibel u. Bibellesen, 1816 ; Die 
Bible nicht ein Buck nur far Priester , 1818). He also 
wrote a book in defence of marriages between Protes- 
tants and Roman Catholics {Rechfertigung der gemischt . 
Ehen , 1821). He died Oct. 13, i847. Ilis very valu- 
able library, rich in manuscripts and ineunables, was 
purchased by the Union Theological Seminary in New 
York. — Herzog, Real-Encykl. xix, 489. (A. J. S.) 

Essence ( essentia , from essens , the old participle of 
esse, to be), a term in philosophy corresponding to o u~ 
via in Greek, and sometimes to nature , sometimes to 
being or substance in English. Augustine ( De Civ. Dei , 
xii, 11) derives it as follows : “ Sicut ab eo quod est sa- 
peie, vocatur sapient in ; sic ab eo quod est esse, vocatur 
essentia .” Chauvin {Lex. Phil.') gives the definition, 
“ Totum illudper quod res est, et est id quod est." Locke 
{Essay, bk. iii, chap, iii, § 15) says: ‘‘ Essence may be 
taken for the very being of anything, whereby it is 
what it is.” Locke distinguishes the real and the 
nominal essence. “The nominal essence depends upon 
the real essence ; thus the nominal essence of gold is 
that complex idea which the word 1 gold’ represents, 
viz. ‘a body yellow, heavy, malleable, fusible, and 
fixed;’ but its real essence is the constitution of its 
insensible parts, on which these qualities and all its 
other properties depend, which is wholly unknown to 
us. The essence of tilings is made up of that common 
nature wherein it is founded, and of that distinctive 
nature by which it is formed. This latter is commonly 
understood when we speak of the formality, or forma- 
lis ratio (the formal consideration) of tilings; and it is 
looked upon as being mere peculiarly the essence of 
things, though it is certain that a triangle is as truly 
made up in part of figure, its common nature, as of 
the three lines and angles which are distinctive and 
peculiar to it” (Fleming, Vocab. of Philosophy , s. v.). 

With regard to the Trinity, the Greek writers (Atha- 
nasius and others) distinguish ovma {essentia, substan- 
tia), which denotes what is common to the Father, the 
Son, and the Holy Spirit, from vttog raoig {persona), 
which denotes what is individual, distinctive, and pe- 
culiar to the three in one. Sliecld {History of Doc- 
trine, ii, 363) distinguishes the various scholastic terms 
carefully, and says of ovoia, or essence , that it “de- 
notes that which is common to Father, Son, and Spirit. 
It denominates the substance, or constitutional being 
of the Deity, which is possessed alike and equally by 
each of the personal distinctions. The essence is in its 
own nature one and indivisible, and hence the state- 
ment in the creed respecting it affirms simple unity, 
and warns against separation and division. The terms 
‘ generation’ and £ procession’ do not apply to it.” 
Me Cosh discusses the term and its uses in his Intuitions 
of the Mind (I860, Svo, p. 152). 

Essenes {’Erroqvoi, Josephus generally; Esseni , 
Pliny) or Ess.eans (’Eatratoi, Josephus, War, i, 3, 5, 
etc. ; Philo), a Jewish sect of mvstieo-ascetics, which 
combined foreign elements, especially Oriental and 
Greek, with Jewish doctrines, and with certain pecu- 
liar views and practices of their own. They rejected 
most of the Jewish sacrifices, and made their fellow- 
ship an exclusive one. 

L Signification of (became. — This has been very 
variously explained, as follows: 1. Philo {Qnodomnis 
prob. lib. § 12) derives it from the Greek o otoc, holy. 
2. Josephus, according to .lost {Geschichtc d.Juden - 
thums , i, 207), seems either to derive it from the Chal- 
dee XwH, to be quiet, to be mysterious, because he ren- 


ders w j wH, the high-priest's breastplate , for which the 
Sept, has XoyfTtnq by iaopv, or directly from y^H, in 
the sense of Xoytior or Aoyton, endowed with the gift of 
prophecy. 3. Epiphanius {liar, xix) takes it to be 
the Hebrew m fi'Z'R =(TTif3apbv ytvog, the stout race. 4. 
Suidas (?. v.) and Hilgenfeld {Die jud. Apokal. p. 278) 
make it out to be the Aramaic form = SuopijrtKOt , 

seers, and the latter maintains that this name was giv- 
en to the sect because they pretended to see visions 
and to prophesy. 5. Josippon ben-Gorion (lib. iv, § 6, 
7, p. 274 and 278, ed. Breithaupt) takes it for the Heb. 
*TOn, the pious, the puritans. 6. De Rossi {Meor En- 
aim, c. iii), GfrOrer {Philo, ii, 341), Daline (Ersch und 
Gruber’s Encyklop. s. v.), Nork {Beal-Wbrterbuch, s. 
v.), Hcrzfeld ( Geschichte dc V. Israel, ii, 395), and oth- 
ers, insist that it is the Aramaic £<*□&$ =$tpamvTf]g, 
physician, and that this name was given to them be- 
cause of the spiritual or physical cures they performed. 
7. Aboth R. Nathan (c. xxxvi), and a writer in Jost's 
Annalen (i, 145), derive it from iT— ”, to do, to perform; 
the latter says that it is the Aramaic from wi*, and 
that they were so called because of their endeavors to 
perform the law. 8. Rappaport {Erech Millin, p. 41) 
says that it is the Greek laog, an associate, a fellow of 
the fraternity. 9. Frankel {Zeitschrift, 1846, p. 449 
sq.) and others think that it is the Hebrew expression. 

the retired. 10. Ewnld {Geschichte d.Y. Israel, 
iv, 420) is sure that it is the Rabbinic “n, servant {of 
God), and that the name was given to them because 
it was their only desire to be StpaTreurai Stov. 11. 
Griitz {Geschichte d. Juden. iii, 525) will have it that 
it is from the Aramaic XHO, to bathe, with Aleph 
prosthetic, and that it is the shorter form for 

iyapoftaiTTiGTai, hemcrobap - 
fists, a name given to this sect because they baptized 
themselves early in the morning. 12. Dr. Low {Ben 
Chananja, i, 352) never doubts but that they were called 
Essenes after their founder, whose name he tells us was 
v w' n , or Jesse, the disciple of Joshua b Perachja. 13. 
Others, again, say that it alludes to Jesse, the father of 
David. 14. Others, again, submit that it is derived 
from the town Essa, or the place Vadi Ossis (compare 
Ewald , Geschichte d. V. I. iv, 420). 15. Dr. Adler {Volks- 
lehrer, vi, 50), again, derives it from the Hebrew “"SX, 
to bind together, to associate, and says that they were 
called because they united together to keep 

the law. 16. Dr. Cohn suggests the Chaldee root y^?, 
to be strong , and that they were called because 

of their strength of mind to endure sufferings and tc 
subdue their passions (Frankel’s Monatsch. vii, 272). 

17. Oppenheim thinks that it may be the form 
and stands for unpii r-rrj y'f'v or ryna 
r*On, observers of the laws of purity and holiness {ib.). 

18. Jeilinek {Ben Chananja, iv, 374), again, derives it 
from the Hebrew “jjj'n, sinus, TCtpi'Lopa, alluding to the 
□ *223 mentioned in the Talmud ( Bcchoroth , 30, a), i. 
e. the apron which the Essenes wore. 19. Others, again, 
derive it from a supposed form 505H, in the sense of 
pious , because it connects the Essenes with the Chasi- 
dim, from which they are thought to have originated. 
See Assidjeans. 

II. Tenets and Practices. — The cardinal doctrine 
of this sect was the sacredness of the inspired law of 
God. To this they adhered with such tenacity that 
they were led thereby to pay the greatest homage to 
Moses the lawgiver, and to consider blasphemy of his 
name a capital offence. They believed that to obey 
diligently the commandments of the Lord, to lead a 
pure and holy life, to mortify the flesh and the lusts 
thereof, and to be meek and lowly in spirit, would 


ESSEXES 


302 


ESSEXES 


bring them in closer communion with their Creator, 
and make them the temples of the Iloly Ghost, when 
they would he able to prophesy and perform miracles, 
anil, like Elias, he ultimately the forerunners of the 
Messiah. This last stage of perfection, however, could 
only be attained by gradual growth in holiness, and 
by advancement from one degree to another. Thus, 
when one was admitted a member of this order, and 
had obtained the T"HT=7 rtpiZioga, apron , which, from 
its being used to dry one’s self with after the baptisms, 
was the symbol of purit}', he attained, 1. To the state of 
outtcanl or bodily purity by baptisms (nx"2‘3 riYP“lT 
PV'pS ‘H^b). From bodily purity he progressed to 
that stage which imposed abstinence from connubial 
intercourse (nVidia 2^2 PTp3). 3. From 

this stage, again, he attained to that of inward or spir- 
itual purity (miTJ *H"0 PIXY'S mans). 4. From 
this stage, again, he advanced to that which required 
the banishing of all anger and malice, and the cultiva- 
tion of a meek and lowly spirit (iTi? llJOIi'O SinJia 
(T'iP). 5. Thence he advanced to the stage of holi- 

ness (P.VrOH P502-2 J-n:r). c. Thence, again, 
lie advanced to that wherein he was fit to be the 
temple of the Holy Spirit, and to prophesy (nVPCPl 
p rn 7. Thence, again, he advanced 

to that state when he could perform miraculous cures 
and raise the dead (*3 hnn *i"rb lLHpSl n*H); and, S. 
Attained finally to the position of Elias, the forerunner 
of the Messiah Ombx s'hnr). Comp. Jeru- 

salem Talmud, Sabbath , e. i; Shekalim , c. iii; Bablv, 
Aboda Zara , xx, 6; Mid rash Iiabba, Shir Hashinm , 
ini t. ; and Ben Chananja , iv, 374. 

As contact with any one who did not practise their 
self-imposed Levitical laws of purity, or with anything 
belonging to such a one, rendered them impure, the 
Essenes were, in the course of time, obliged to with- 
draw altogether from general society, to form a sepi- 
rate community, and live apart from the world. Thf r 
manner oflife and practices were most simple and self- 
denying. They chiefly occupied themselves with till- 
ing the ground, tending flocks, rearing bees, and mak- 
ing the articles of fool and dress required by the com- 
munity (as it was contrary to their laws of Levitical 
purity to get anything from one who did not belong to 
the society), as well as with healing the sick, and study- 
ing the mysteries of nature and revelation. Whatever 
they possessed was deposited in the general treasury, 
of which there were appointed by the whole fraternity 
several in inagers, who supplied therefrom the wants 
ol every one, so that they had all things in common; 
hence there were no distinctions amongst them of rich 
and poor, or of masters and servants. They repro- 
bated slavery and war, and would not even manufac- 
ture martial instruments. They rose before the sun, 
and did not talk about any worldly m itters till they 
had all assembled together anil offered up their na- 
tional prayer for the renewal of the light of the day 
“PX'CiT), whereupon they dispersed to their 
respective engagements, according to the directions of 
the overseers, till the fifth hour, or eleven o’clock, 
when the labor of the forenoon terminated, and all re- 
assembled, had a baptism in cold water, after which 
they put on their white garments, entered their refec- 
tory with as much religious solemnity as if it were the 
holy Temple, sat down together in mysterious silence 
to a common meal, which had the character of a sac- 
rament — and may be the reason why they did not offer 
sacrifices in the Temple — the baker placed before each 
one a little loaf of bread, and the cook .a dish of the 
most simple food, the priest invoked God's* blessing 
upon the repast, and concluded with tlpinks to the 
Bountiful Supplier of all orn* wants. This was the 
signal of their dismissal, when all withdrew, put off 


their sacred garments, and resumed their several em- 
ployments till the evening, when they again partook 
of a common meal. Such was their manner of life 
during the week. On the Sabbath, -which they ob- 
served with the utmost rigor, and on which they were 
more especially instructed in their distinctive ordi- 
nances, Philo tells us, “They frequent the sacred places 
which are called synagogues, and there they sit, ac- 
cording to their age, in classes, the younger sitting be- 
low the elder in becoming attire, and listening with 
eager attention. Then one takes up the holy volume 
and reads it, whilst another of the most experienced 
ones expounds, omitting that which is not generally 
known ; for they philosophize on most things in sym- 
bols, according to the ancient zeal” {Quod omnis prob. 
lib. sec. xii). The study of logic and metaphysics they 
regarded as injurious to a devotional life. They were 
governed by a president, who was chosen by the whole 
body, and who also acted as judge. In cases of trial, 
however, the majority of the community, or at least a 
hundred members of it, were required to constitute the 
tribunal, and the brother who walked disorderly was 
excommunicated, yet he was not regarded as an ene- 
my, but was admonished as a brother, and received 
back after due repentance. 

As has already been remarked, the Essenes gener- 
ally were celibates ; their ranks had therefore to be 
recruited from the children of the Jewish community 
at large, whom they carefully trained for this holy 
and ascetic order. Previous to his final admission, the 
candidate for the- order had to pass through a novitiate 
of two stages. Upon entering the first stage, which 
lasted twelve months, the novice {vtoavararog') had 
to cast in all his possessions into the common treasury, 
and received a spade {cncaXig, d£ij'ffptoi'= h lP^ 1 ) to bury 
the excrement (compare Dent, xxiii, 1-2-15), an apron 
( 7 T£p(£<i>/ta = , P’M), used at the baptisms, and a white 
robe to put on at meals, which were the symbols of 
purity, and, though still an outsider, he had to observe 
some of the ascetic rules of the society. If, at the 
close of this stage, the community found that he had 
properly acquitted himself during the probationary 
year, the novice was then admitted into the second 
stage, which lasted two years. During this period lie 
was admitted to a closer fellowship with the brother- 
hood, and shared in their lustral rites, but was still 
excluded from the common meals. Having passed 
satisfactorily through the second stage of probation, 
the novice was then fully received into the community 
{tig rbv o/uAoi'), when he bound himself by awful oaths 
(the only occasion on which they allowed swearing) 
“that, in the first place, lie will exercise piety towards 
God ; and then that he will observe justice towards all 
men ; and that he will do no harm to any one, either 
of his own accord or by the command of others ; that 
he will always hate the wicked, and help the right- 
eous ; that he will ever he faithful to all men, espe- 
cially his rulers, for without God no one conics to be 
ruler, and that if he should be ruler himself he will 
never be overbearing, nor endeavor to outshine those 
he rules either in his garments or in finery; that he 
will always love truth, and convince and reprove 
those that lie; that he will keep his hand from steal- 
ing, and his soul clear from any unjust gain; that he 
will not conceal anything from the members of his so- 
ciety, nor communicate to any one their mysteries, not 
even if he should he forced to it at the hazard of his 
life; and, finally, that lie will never deliver the doc- 
trines of the Essenes to any one in any other manner 
than lie received them himself; that he will abstain 
from all species of robbery, and carefully preserve the 
books belonging to their sect and the names of the 
angels” (ITm*, ii, 8, 7). This last expression refers to 
the secrets connected with the Tetragrammaton (2.- 
-•122PI), and the other names of God and the angels 
comprised in the theosophy (i"C2T?2 iTu^TS), and to 


ESSENES 


303 ESSENES 


the mysteries connected with the cosmogony (TO? "2 
FTO'vO?) which played so important a part both 
among the Essenes and the Cabbalists. 

III. Origin and Relationship to Judaism and Christ i- 
anity. — The origin of this sect has been greatly mysti- 
fied by Philo and Josephus, who, being anxious to rep- 
resent their co-religionists to cultivated Greeks in a 
Hellenistic garb, made the Essenes resemble as much 
as possible the Ascetic, Pythagorean, Platonic, and 
other philosophers. It has been still more mystified 
by the account of Pliny, who tells us that this com- 
munity has prolonged its existence for thousands of 
ages (“ per seculorum millia — incredibile dietu — gens 
feterna est in qua nemo naseitur,” Ilist. Nat. v, 15). 
Most modern writers have shaped their description of 
this community according to these accounts, supposing 
that the Essenes are neither mentioned in the N. T. 
nor in the ancient Jewish writings, and hence conclud- 
ing that the sect originated in Egypt or Greece, or in 
the philosophic systems of both countries. Hilgenfekl 
( Zeits.fur iviss. Theol ., 1867, i, art. vi) undertakes to 
show the historical connection of Essenism with Par- 
sism and Buddhism. Frankel seeks, from a number 
of passages in the Talmud and Midrashim, to show 
that Essenism is simply an order of Pharisaism, that 
both are sections of the Chasidim or Assidreans [see 
Chasidim], and that all these three orders are fre- 
quently spoken of under the same name. That the 
Essenes are an order of Pharisees is distinctly stated 
in Ahoth R. Nathan, c. xxxvii, where we are told that 
there are eight distinctions or orders among the Phar- 
isees, and that those Pharisees who live in celibacy are 
the Essenes IPS^TO lS*ns— C.n DWSn). 

This will, moreover, be seen from a comparison of the 
following practices, which Josephus describes as pecul- 
iar characteristics of the Essenes , with the practices of 
the Pharisees, as given in the Talmud and Midra- 
shim : 

3. The Essenes had four classes of Levitieal purity, 
which were so marked that a member of the upper 
class had to bathe himself when he touched anything 
belonging to the lower class, or when he came in con- 
tact with a stranger; so also the Pharisees (comp. Jo- 
sephus, War, ii, 8, 10, with Chagiga, ii, 7). 

2. The Essenes regarded ten persons as constituting 
a complete number for divine worship, and held the 
assembly of such a number as sacred; so the Phari- 
sees (comp. War, 2, 8, 9, with Ahoth, iii, G; Beraclioth, 
54, a). 

3. The Essenes would not spit out in the presence 
of an assembly, or to the right hand ; so the Pharisees 
(comp. 11 err, ii, 8,9, with Jerusalem, Berachoth, iii, 5). 

4. The Essenes regarded their social meal as a sae- 
rament; so the Pharisees (compare War, ii, 8, 5, with 
Berachoth , 55, a). 

5. The Essenes bathed before meals ; so the Phari- 
sees (comp. War , ii, 8, 5, with Chagiga , 18, b). 

G. The Essenes put on an apron on the lower part of 
the body when bathing; the Pharisees covered them- 
selves with the talitk (comp. War, ii, 8, 5, with Bera- 
chnlk, 24, b). 

7. The Essenes bathed after performing the duties 
of nature ; so the priests (comp. War, ii, 8, 9, with Yo- 
ma, 28, a). 

8. The Essenes abstained from taking oaths ; so the 
Pharisees (compare War, ii, 8, G, with Shebuoth , 39, b; 
Gitthi, 35, a; Bemidbar Rabba, xxii). 

9. The Essenes -would not even remove a vessel on 
the Sabbath; so the Pharisees (compare War, ii, 8, 9, 
with Tosiphta Succa, iii). 

10. The Essenes had a steward in every place where 
they resided to supply the needy strangers of this or- 
der with articles of clothing and food; so the Phari- 
sees (comp. War, ii, 8, 4, with Peak, viii, 7 ; Baba Ba- 
thra, 8, a; Sabbath, 118). 

11. The Essenes believed that all authority comes 


from God ; so the Pharisees (comp. War, ii, 8, 7, with 
Berachoth , 58, a). 

12. An applicant for admission to the order of the 
Essenes had to pass through a novitiate of twelve 
months; so the TOH among the Pharisees (compare 
War, ii, 8, 7, with Bechoroth , 30, b). 

13. The novice among the Essenes received aw apron 
(7rep(^ojpa') the first year of his probation ; so the Cha- 
ber among the Pharisees (compare War, 5], 8, 7, with 
Tosipjhta Demay, c. ii ; Jerusalem, Demay, ii, 3, b ; Ee- 
choroth , 30, b). 

14. The Essenes delivered the theosophieal books, 
and the sacred names, to the members of their society ; 
similarly the Pharisees (comp. War, ii, 8, 7, with Cha- 
giga, ii, 1 ; Kidduskim, 71, a). 

The real differences between the Essenes and the 
Pharisees developed themselves in the course of time, 
when the extreme rigor with which the former sought to 
perform the laws of Levitieal purity made them with- 
draw from intercourse with their fellow-men, and led 
them, 1. To form an isolated older; 2. To keep from 
marriage, because of the perpetual pollutions to which 
women are subject in menstruation and childbirth, 
and because of its being a hindrance to a purely devo- 
tional state of mind ; 3. To abstain from frequenting 
the Temple and offering sacrifices (compare Josephus 
Ant. xviii, 1,5); and, 4. Though they firmly believed 
in the immortality of the soul, yet they did not believe 
in the resurrection of the body (Bar, ii, 8, 11). To 
the Pharisees they stood nearly in the same relation 
as that in which the Pharisees themselves stood with 
regard to the mass of the people. The difference lay 
mainly in rigor of practice, and not in articles of be- 
lief. See Pharisee. 

But the best among the Jews felt the peril of Esse- 
nism as a system, and combined to discourage it. They 
shrank with an instinctive dread from the danger of 
connecting asceticism with spiritual power, and cher- 
ished the great truth which lay in the saying, “ Doc- 
trine is not in heaven.” The miraculous energy which 
was attributed to mystics was regarded by them rather 
as a source of suspicion than of respect, and theosophic 
speculations were condemned with emphatic distinct- 
ness (Frankel, Monatsschrift , 1853, p. G2 sq., 68, 71). 

As to their connection with Christianity , there can be 
no difficulty in admitting that Christ and the apostles 
recognised those principles and practices of the Essenes 
which were true and useful. Though our Saviour 
does not mention them by the name Essenes, which 
Philo and Josephus coined for the benefit of the Greeks, 
yet there can be no doubt he refers to them in Matt. 
Six, 12, when he speaks of those “ who abstain from 
marriage for the kingdom of heaven’s sake,” since 
they were the only section of Jews who voluntarily 
imposed upon themselves a state of celibacy in order 
that they might devote themselves more closely to the 
service of God. Also 1 Cor. vii can hardly be under- 
stood without bearing in mind the notions al out mar- 
riage entertained by this God-fearing and self-denying 
order. As to ether coincidences, Matt, v, 34, etc., and 
James v, 12, urge the abstinence from using oaths 
which was especially taught by the Essenes. The 
manner in which Christ commanded his disciples to 
depart on their journey (Mark vi, 8-10), is the same 
which these pious men adopted when they started on 
a mission of mercy. The primitive Christians, like 
the Essenes, sold their laud and houses, and brought 
the prices of the tilings to the apostles, and they had 
all things in common (Acts iv, 32-34). John the Bap- 
tist was a parallel to this holy order, as is evident from 
his ascetic life (Luke xi, 22) ; and when Christ pro- 
nounced him to be Elias (Matt, xi, 13), he may almost 
he said to have declared that the Baptist had really 
attained to that spirit and power which the Essenes 
strove to obtain in their highest stage of purity. 
From the nature of the ease, however, Essenism, in its 
extreme form, could exercise very little direct inku- 


ESSENES 


304 


ESSENES 


ence on Christianity. In all its practical bearings it 
was diametrically opposed to the apostolic teaching. 
The dangers which it involved were far more clear to 
the eye of the Christian than they were to the Jewish 
doctors. The only real similarity between Essen ism 
and Christianity lay in the common element of true 
Judaism ; and there is little excuse for modern writers 
who follow the error of Eusebius, and confound the so- 
ciety of the Therapeutic with Christian brotherhoods. 
Nationally, however, the Essenes occupy the same po- 
sition as that to which John the Baptist was person- 
ally called. They mark the close of the old, the long- 
ing for the new", but without political aspirations. 

I n* place of the message of the coming “kingdom” 
they could proclaim only individual purity and isola- 
tion. At a later time traces of Essenism appear in 
the Clementines, and the strange account which Epi- 
phanius gives of the Osseni (’OmKi'oi). appears to point 
to some combination of Essene and pseudo-Christian 
doctrines (liter. xix). After the Jewish war the Es- 
senes disappear from history. The character of Juda- 
ism was changed, and ascetic Pharisaism became al- 
most impossible. 

IV. Date, Settlements , an l Number of this Order . — 
The fact that the Essenes developed themselves grad- 
ually, and at first imperceptibly, through intensifying 
the prevalent religious notions, renders it impossible 
to say with exactness at what degree of intensity they 
are to be considered as detached from the general body. 
The Saviour and the ancient Jewish writers do not 
speak of them as a separate body. Josephus, how- 
ever, speaks of them as existing in the days of Jona- 
than the Maccabrean, B.C. 143 (An/. xiii, 5, 9); he then 
mentions Judas, an Essene, who delivered a prophecy 
in the reign of Aristobulus I, 11.0. 10G (Urn*, i, 3, 5; 
Ant. xiii, 11, 2). The third mention of their existence 
occurs in connection with Ilerod (Ant. xv, 10, 5). 
These accounts distinctly show that the Essenes at 
first lived among the people, and did not refrain from 
frequenting the court, as Menacheni the Essene was a 
friend of Herod, who was kindly disposed towards this 
order ( [ib.] ). This is, moreover, evident from the fact 
that there was a gate at Jerusalem which was named 
after them (’ Euoijvibv ttvXx), War, v, 4, 2). When 
they ultimately withdrew themselves from the rest of 
the Jewish nation, the majority of them settled on the 
north-west shore of the Dead Sea (Pliny, Hist. Nat. v, 
17 ; Eusebius, Hist. Eceles. ii, 17), and the rest lived 
in scattered communities throughout Palestine and 
other places. Their number is estimated both by Philo 
and Josephus at 4000. 

The obscurity of the Essenes as a distinct body 
arises from the fact that they represented originally a 
tendency rather than an organization. The commu- 
nities which were formed out of them were a result of 
their practice, and not a necessary part of it. As a 
sect they were distinguished by an aspiration after 
ideal purity rather than by any special code of doc- 
trines; and, like the Chasidim of earlier times, they 
were confounded in the popular estimation with the 
great body of th » zealous observers of the law (Phari- 
sees). The growth of Essenism was a natural result 
of the religious feeling which was called out by the 
circumstances of the Greek dominion, and it is easy 
to trace the process by which it was matured. From 
the Maceabiean age there was a continuous effort 
among the stricter Jews to attain an absolute standard 
of holiness. Each class of devotees was looked upon 
as practically impure by their successors, who carried 
the laws of purity still further; and the Essenes stand 
at the extreme limit of the mystic asceticism which 
was thus gradually reduced to shape. The associa- 
tions of the “Scribes and Pharisees” (u*'^2tl, u the 
companions, the tvise ”) gave place to others’ hound by 
a more rigid ride ; and the rule of the Essenes was 
m ule gradually stricter. Those whom Josephus speaks 
of as allowing marriage may be supposed to have be- 


longed to such bodies as had not yet withdrawn from 
intercourse with their fellow-men. But the practice 
of the extreme section was afterwards regarded as 
characteristic of the whole class, and the isolated com- 
munities of Essenes furnished the type which is pre- 
served in the popular descriptions. 

The character of Essenism limited its spread. Out 
of Palestine, Levitieal purity was impossible, for the 
very land was impure ; and thus there is no trace of 
the sect in Babylonia. The case was different in 
Egypt, where Judaism assumed a new shape from its 
intimate connection with Greece. Here the original 
form in which it was moulded was represented, not by 
direct copies, but by analogous forms, and the tend- 
ency which gave birth to the Essenes found a fresh 
development in the pure speculation of the Therapeutic 
(q. v.). These Alexandrine mystics abjured the prac- 
tical labors which rightly belonged to the Essenes, 
and gave themselves up to the study of the inner 
meaning of the Scriptures. The impossibility of fill- 
tilling the law naturally led them to substitute a spir- 
itual for a literal interpretation; and it was their ob- 
ject to ascertain its meaning by intense labor, and then 
to satisfy its requirements by absolute devotion. The 
“ whole day, from sunrise to sunset, was spent in men- 
tal discipline.” Bodily wants were often forgotten in 
the absorbing pursuit of wisdom, and “meat and 
drink” were at all times held to he unworthy of the 
light (Philo, De vii. contempt. § 4). 

According to Credner, Uther Essener und Ebioniten 
(in Winer’s Zeitschr. I, ii-iii, 217 sq.), the Ebionites 
descended from the Essenes. Grasse says (ib. p. 653) 
that the Therapeutic, who lived in Egypt (Fabricius, 
Bibl. Gr. ii, 138 sq., 725), were a class of the Essenes 
(see Buhl, Diss. Essceos Pythagorissantes delineatura , 
Upsal. 1746); and he presumes that they existed as 
early as the time of Alexander the Great, and, spread- 
ing from Egypt to Palestine, there became acquainted 
with the Pythagorean or Oriental philosophy (comp. 
Josephus, Ant. xv, 13). Dr. Wise thinks that the 
founder of the Essenes must have been an Egyptian 
Jew who was acquainted with the Pythagorean order, 
and came to Palestine about B.C. 200; and says far- 
ther that the Therapeuts (founded about B.C. 170) of 
Egypt and elsewhere were in name and essence an im- 
itation of the Essenes. He asserts also that no posi- 
tive traces of their messianic views are left either by 
Josephus or Philo, or even by the Talmud, but that, in 
consideration of their numerous similarities to the 
Egyptian Jews, they may he supposed to have enter- 
tained messianic hopes similar to the Egyptians (The 
Israelite, Nov. 1, 1867). 

V. Literature. — The oldest accounts we have of the 
Essenes are those given by Josephus, 117/r, ii, 8, 2-15; 
Ant. xii, 5, 9; xv, 10, 4 sq. ; xviii, 1, 2 sq. ; Philo, 
Quod omnis probus liber , § 12 sq. ; Pliny, Hist. Natiir. 
v, c. xvi, xvii ; Solinus, Polyhist. e. xxxv ; Porphyry, 
De Abstinentia, p. 381; Epiphanius, adr. liter, lib. i; 
Eusebius, Histor. Eceles. ii, c. xvii. Of modern pro- 
ductions we have Bcllermann, Geschichtliche Naehrich- 
ten aus dem Alterthume iiber Essaer und Tlierapeuien 
(Berlin, 1821), who has studiously collected all the de- 
scriptions of this order; Gfrdrer, Philo und die jitd sch- 
alerandrinische Theosoplve (Stuttgart, 1835), p. 299 sq. ; 
Prideaux, Connection of the O. and N. T., part ii, hk. v, 
5 ; P;ihne, Geschichtliche Darstdlnng der jiidisch-alex - 
andrinischen Rtligions Philosojdrie , i, 4G7 sq. ; and by the 
same author, the article Essaer, in Erseh und Gruber’s 
Encykinpddie ; Neander, History of the Church, ed. Bohn, 
vol. i. The Essays of Frankel, in his Zeltschrijh fur 
die religiosen Interessen d. Judenthnuis (Lpz. 1818), p. 
441 sq. ; and Monatsschrift far Geschichte u. HVssen- 
sehafl d. JndentJmms , ii, 30 sq., G1 sq., are most impor- 
tant, and may be considered as having created a new 
epoch in the treatment of the history of this order. 
Adopting the results of Frankel, and pursuing the same 
‘ course still further, Grittz has given a masterly trea- 


ESSENIUS 


305 


ESTABLISHMENT 


tise upon the Essenes in his Geschichte der Juden (Leip- | 
zig, 1856), iii, 96 scp, 518 sq. ; treatises of great value 
are also given by Jost, Geschichte des Judenthums mid 
seiner Secten (Leipzig, 1857), p.207 sq. ; and llerzfehl, 
Geschichte d. V. Israel (Nordhausen, 1857), ii, 868, 388 i 
sq. The accounts given by Ewald, Geschichte d. J olkes 
Israel (Gottingen, 185*2), iv, 420 sq., and Hilgcnfeld, 
Die jiidische Apokalyptik (Jena, 1857), p. 245 sq., though 
based upon Philo and Josephus, are important contri- 
butions to the literature of the Essenes ; that of the 
latter is interesting and ingenious, but essentially one- 
sided and subservient to the writer’s theory (compare 
Volkmar, Das vierte B. Ezra, p. 60). To these must be 
added the very interesting and important relics of the 
Essenes, published by Jellinek, with instructive notices I 
h}" the learned editor, in Beth Ila- Midrash, vol. ii 1 
(Leipzig, 1853), p. xviii sq. ; vol. iii (Leipzig, 1855). p. 
xx sq. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

See also Ginsburg, History and Doctrines of the Es- 
sences (Lond. 1864); Hermes, De Esso is (Hal. 1720); 
Lund, De Phar. Scold, et Essceis (A boa;, 1689) ; Sauer, 
Be Essenis et Therapentis (Vratisl. 1829) ; Willemer, De 
Essenis (Viteb. 1680) ; Zeller, Ueb. d. Zusammenh. d. 
Essiiismus mit Grieckenthum (in the Tub. theol. Jalirb. 
1856, p. 401-433) ; Loth, De Essenis' (. Jen. 1669) ; AVillc- 
mer, id. (Viteb. 1680) ; Lange, id. (Hal. 1721) ; Tresen- 
rcuter, De Essceorum nomine (Alt. 1743) ; Van der Hude, 
Num disdpuli Joh. Bapt.fuerunt Esscei (Helmst. 1754); 
Carpzov, Dank-cpfer an Gott. p. 282 sq. ; Ernesti, Ueb. 
11 Porphyrius dc Abstmentia" (in his Theol. Bibf. ix, 63 
sq.); Grave, De Pythayor. et Essenor. discipUna (Gott. 
1808); Bielcke,Z>e Essceis et Therapentis (Starg. 1755); 
Buttncr, De Essceis (Jen. 1670) ; Credner, Ueb. Essder 
und Ebioniten (in Winer’s Zeitsckr. f. udssensch. Theol. 
ii, 211-264) ; Grossmann, De ascetis Juda orient (Altenb. 
1833); Zinck, I)e Therapeutis (Lips. 1724). On the 
supposed relations of Essenism to Christianity, there 
are special treatises in Latin by Zorn (in his Ojnisc. 
Suer, ii, 62 sq.), Kaiser (in his Qucestion. Synodal. [Cu- 
ria*, 1801], p. 25 sq.), Dorfmiillcr (Wunsiedel, 1803), 
Tinga (Groning. 1805); in German by Ltiderwald (in 
Henke’s Mayaz. iv, 371 sq.), Bengel (in Platt's Alayaz. 
vii, 126 sq.). See likewise the Stud. n. Krit. 1845, iii, 
549 ; Jour. Sac. Lit. Oct. 1852, p. 176-186 ; April, 1853, 
p. 170 sq. ; Blackwood's Mayazine , 1840, p. 105, 463, 
639 ; Amer. Bill. Repos. Jan. 1849, p. 162 sq. ; Ililgen- 
feld’s Zeitsckr. fur uissensch. Theoloyie , 1867, i, art. 6; 
Illgen’s Zeitsckr. fur hist. Theol. 1841, ii, 3 sq. ; the 
Strasb. Revue de theol. 1867, p. 221 sq. ; Zeller’s Theol. 
Jalab. 1855, p. 315 sq. ; 1850, p. 401 sq. ; Meth. Quart. 
Rev. July, 1867, p. 450; North British Rev. Dec. 1867, 
p. 151; Pressense, Religions before Christ , p. 231-234; 
Schatf, Apostolic Church , p. 175, 657 sq. ; llolzmann, 
Gesch. d. Volkes Israel , i, 206 sq. Comp. Sects, Jew- 
ish. 

Essenius, Andrew, a Dutch theologian, was born 
at Bommel in February, 1618, and was educated at 
Utrecht, where he became pastor in 1651. In 1653 he 
was made professor of theology in the University of 
Utrecht, lie died May 18, 1677. Among his writings 
ire Triumphus Crucis (Amst. 1649): — De Moralitate 
( Subbati 1658): — Systema Theoloyicum (1G59): — Com- 
pendium Theol. Doymat. (1669). — Hoefer, Nouv. Bioy. 
Generate, xvi, 441. 

Essentia. See Essence. 

Establishment. This term is applied to the po- 
sition of that religious denomination in any country 
which solely or peculiarly enjoys the patronage of the 
state, and the clergy of which have, in consequence, 
their several endowments and incomes especially set- 
tled and maintained by the Legislature or government. 
The general tendency of opinion in all countries is 
now against established churches, and in favor of the 
voluntary principle for the support of churches. The 
subject is discussed at length, historically and other- 
wise, in. the article Church and State (ii, 829). 

III. — U 


present here a summary of the arguments on both 
sides, chiefly taken from Buck (Theoloy. Diet. s. v.). 

(I.) The partisans for religious establishments ob- 
serve (1.) that they have prevailed universally in ev- 
ery age and nation. The office of prophet, priest, and 
king were united in the same patriarch (Gen. xviii, 19 ; 
xvii and xxi ; xiv, 18). The Jews enjoyed a religious 
establishment dictated and ordained by God. In turn- 
ing our attention to the heathen nations, we shall find 
the same incorporation of religious with civil govern- 
ment (Gen. xlvii, 22 ; 2 Kings xvii, 27, 29). Every 
one who is at all acquainted with the history of Greece 
and Borne knows that religion was altogether blended 
with the policy of the state. The Koran ma} r be con- 
sidered as the religious creed and civil code of all the 
Mohammedan tribes. Among the Celts, or the origi- 
nal inhabitants of Europe, the Druids were Loth their 
priests and their judges, and their judgment was final. 
Among the Hindoos the priests and sovereigns are of 
different tribes or castes, but the priests are superior 
in rank ; and in China the emperor is sovereign pon- 
tiff, and presides in all public acts of religion. (2.) 
Again: it is said that, although there is no form of 
Church government absolutely prescribed in the New 
Testament, yet from the associating law, on which the 
Gospel lays so much stress, by the respect for civil 
government it so earnestly enjoins, and by the practice 
which followed and finally prevailed, Christians can- 
not be said to disapprove, but to favor religious estab- 
lishments. (3.) Beligious establishments also, it is ob- 
served, are founded on the nature of man, and inter- 
woven with all the constituent principles of human so- 
ciety : the knowledge and profession of Christianity 
cannot be upheld without a clergy ; a clergy cannot be 
supported without a legal provision ; and a legal pro- 
vision for the clergy cannot he constituted without the 
preference of one sect of Christians to the rest. An 
established church is most likely to maintain clerical 
respectability and usefulness by holding out a suitable 
encouragement to young men to devote themselves 
early to the service of the Church, and likewise ena- 
bles them to obtain such knowledge as shall qualify 
them for the important work. 

(II.) They who reason on the contrary side observe, 
(1.) that the patriarchs sustaining civil as well as re- 
ligious offices is no proof at all that religion was incor- 
porated with the civil government in the sense above 
referred to, nor is there the least hint of it in the sacred 
Scriptures. That the case of the Jews can never he 
considered in point, as they were under a theocracy 
and a ceremonial dispensation that was to pass away, 
and consequently not designed to he a model for Chris- 
tian nations. That, whatever was the practice of 
heathens in this respect, this forms no argument in fa- 
vor of that system which is the very opposite to pagan- 
ism. (2.) The Church of Christ is of a spiritual na- 
ture, and ought not, yea, cannot in fact be incorpo- 
rated with the state without sustaining material in- 
jury. In the three first and purest ages of Christi- 
anity the Church was a stranger to any alliance with 
temporal powers ; and, so far from needing their aid, 
religion never flourished so much as while they were 
combined to suppress it. (3.) As to the support wliick 
Christianity, when united to civil government, } ields 
to the peace and good order of society, it is observed 
that this benefit will he derived from it in at least as 
great a degree without an establishment as with it. 
Beligion, if it have any power, operates on the con- 
science of men ; and, resting solely on the belief of in- 
visible realities, it can derive no weight or solcmnit}" 
from human sanctions. Human establishments, it is 
said, have been, and are, productive of the greatest 
] evils ; for in this case it is requisite to give the prefer- 
ence to some particular system ; and as the magistrate 
is no better judge of religion than others, the chances 
are as great of his lending his sanction to the false as 
the true. The thousands that have been persecuted 


ESTABLISHMENT 


ESTHER 


306 


and suffered in consequence of establishments will al- ' 
ways form an argument against them. Under estab- 
lishments also, it is said, corruption cannot be avoided. 
Emolument must be attached to the national church, 
which may be a strong inducement to its ministers to 
defend it, be it ever so remote from the truth. Thus, 
also, error becomes permanent; and that set of opin- 
ions which happens to prevail when the establishment 
is formed, continues, in spite of superior light and im- 
provement, to be handed down, without alteration, 
from age to age. lienee the disagreement between 
the public creed of the Church and the private senti- 
ments of its ministers. (4.) Finally, though all Chris- 
tians should pay respect to civil magistrates as such, 
and all magistrates ought to encourage the Church, 
yet no civil magistrates have any power to establish 
any particular form of religion binding upon the con- 
sciences of the subject; nor are magistrates ever rep- 
resented in Scripture as officers or rulers of the Church. 
As Mr. Coleridge observes, the Christian Church is not 
a kingdom, realm, or state of the world, nor is it an . 
estate of any such kingdom, realm, or state; but it is 
the appointed opposite to them all collectively — the ! 
sustaining, correcting, befriending opposite of the j 
world — the compensating counterforce to the inher- 
ent and inevitable evils and defects of the state as a ' 
state, and without reference to its better or worse con- 
struction as a particular state; while, whatever is be- j 
neficent and humanizing in the aims, tendencies, and | 
proper objects of the state, it collects in itself as in a 
focus, to radiate them back in a higher quality ; or. to I 
change the metaphor, it completes and strengthens the ! 
edilice of the state, without interference or commix- 
ture, in the mere act of laying and securing its own ! 
foundations. And for these services the Church of j 
Christ asks of the state neither wages nor dignities; 
she asks only protection, and to be let alone. These, j 
indeed, she demands; but even these only on the 
ground that there is nothing in her constitution nor in ‘ 
iier discipline inconsistent with the interests of the J 
state; nothing resistant or impedimental to the state j 
in the exercise of its rightful powers, in the fulfilment 
of its appropriate duties, or in the effectuation of its le- J 
gitimate objects. (.3.) As to the provision made for j 
the clergy, this may be done without an establish- j 
ment, as matter of fact shows in hundreds of instances ' 
in the Dissenting and Methodist churches in England, 
and universally by all churches in America. Indeed, 
the question of the value of the voluntary principle 
may be considered as finally settled by the experience | 
of the English and American churches. In England, 
in 1855, the Established Church had church accommo- 
dation for 5,300,010, and all other denominations could j 
seat 4,000,000, making in all church-room for 10,200,000 ( 
of the population. In the United States there were 
church accommodation in 1850 for 14,001,000, and it is j 
computed by Dr. Baird (Religion in America}- that there 
must be altogether far more than one minister for each 
900 inhabitants. In England they have an establish- 
ment of untold wealth. For centuries they have been 
accumulating edifices for worship the most costly and 
durable that the’ world knows, and yet the United 
States, without any aid from the government, seats a 
larger proportion of the inhabitants in houses of wor- 
ship, and raises $25,000,000 annually for religions be- 
nevolence. That which has been the cause of this su- 
perior success in America is the more perfect action of 
the voluntary principle. Even in England this prin- 
ciple has worked in the same manner. Fifty years 
ago the population of that country was less than half 
what it now is. Then the Church of England could 
seat 4,000,000, now 5,300,000. But at that time the , 
Dissenters could seat only one fifth of the numbers 
they can at present. In America the population lias 
doubled itself five or six -times since the Devolution, 
and yet then there was but about one minister to every 
2000 inhabitants, now there is one to every 1000. Sec j 


Warburton, Alliance between Church and State; Chris- 
tie, Essay on Establishing nts ; Paley, d/or. Phil. v. ii, c. 
10; Bp. Law, Theory of Rdigion ; Watts, Civil Power 
in Things Sacred , third volume of bis 1 1 r orks ; Hall, lib- 
erty of the Press , sec. 5 ; Cornier, Protestant Noncon- 
formity ; Baird, Religion in America (N. Y. 185G, 8vo) ; 
Buck, Diet. s. v. ; and art. Church and State. 

Bs'ther [vulgarly pronounced Es'ter] y a beautiful 
Jewish maiden, the heroine of the Biblical book that 
bears her name. 

1. Name. — Her proper Hebrew name was Ifadassak 

(q. v.), but on her introduction into the royal harem 
she received, in accordance with Oriental usage (comp. 
Dan. i, 7), the new and probably Persian name of 
Esther (“TCX, Ester ' ; Sept. ’Eo^Z/p, and so Josephus 
[Gen. -i/poc], Ant. xi, G, 2, etc.; Vulg. Esther ), which 
thenceforth became her usual and better-known desig- 
nation, as appears from the formula JOyJ, “that 

is, Esther” (Esth. ii, 7), exactly analogous to the usual 
addition of the modern names of towns to explain the 
use of the old obsolete ones (Gen. xxxv, 19, 27 ; Josh, 
xv, 10, etc.). As to its signification, Gcsenius ( Thes . 
Heb. p. 134, a) cites from that diffuse Targum on this 
book, which is known as the second Targum on Esther, 
the following words : “ She was called Esther from the 
name of the star Venus, which in Greek is Aster ” (i. e. 
dorZ/p, Lat. aster , Engl, star ; see Lassen, Ind. Biblioth. 
iii, 8, 18). Gcsenius then points to the Persian word 
satdrah, star, as that of which Esther is the Syro-Ara- 
bian modification ; and brings it, as to signification, 
into connection with the planet 1 'enus, as a star of good 
fortune, and with the name of the Syrian goddess Ash - 
t'ircih (q. v.). In this etymology Fiirst acquiesces 
{Heb. Jlandwb. s. v.). 

2. History. — She was the daughter of A hi hail (who 
was probably the son of Sliiniei), a Benjamite, and 
uncle of Mordecai (q. v.). Her ancestor Kish had 
been among the captives led away from Jerusalem 
(part of which was in the tribe of Benjamin) by Nebu- 
chadnezzar when Jehoiachin was taken captive. The 
family did not avail itself of the permission to return 
to Palestine under the edict of Cyrus. Her parents 
being dead, Esther was brought up as a daughter by 
her cousin Mordecai, who had an office in the court or 
household of the Persian monarch “ at Shushan, in the 
palace.” The reigning king of Persia, Ahasuents, 
having divorced Ins queen, Vashti, on account of the 
becoming spirit with which she refused to submit to 
the indignity which a compliance with his drunken 
commands involved, search was made throughout the 
empire for the most beautiful maiden to be her suc- 
cessor. Those whom the officers of the harem deemed 
the most beautiful were removed thither, the eventual 
choice among them remaining with the king himself. 
That choice fell on Esther, who found favor in the eyes 
of Ahasuerus, and was advanced to a station enviable 
only by comparison with that of the less favored in- 
mates of the royal harem. B.C. 479. The king was 
not aware, however, of her race and parentage ; and 
so, with the careless profusion of a sensual despot, on 
the representation of Hainan the Agagite, his prime 
minister, that the Jews scattered through his empire 
were a pernicious race, he gave him full power and 
authority to kill them all, young and old, women and 
children, and take possession of all their property. 
The circumstance that Esther herself, though queen, 
seemed to be included in this doom of extirpation, en- 
abled ber to turn the royal indignation upon Hainan, 
whose resentment against Mordecai had led him to ob- 
tain from the king this monstrous edict. The laws of 
the empire would not allow the king to recall a decree 
once uttered; but the Jews were authorized to stand 
on their defence ; and this, with the known change in 
the intentions of the court, averted the worst conse- 
quences of the decree. The Jews established a yearly 
feast in memory of this deliverance, which is observed 


ESTHER 


307 


ESTHER 




^mong them to this day. See PuRnr. Such is the 
eubstanee of the history of Esther, as related in the 
book which bears her name. (See below.) The de- 
tails, as given ill that book, afford a most curious pic- 
ture of the usages of the aneient Persian court, the ae- 
euraey of which is vouched for not only by the histori- 
cal authority of the book itself, but bj' its agreement 
with the intimations afforded by the ancient writers, as 
well as by the fact that the same usages are in sub- 
stance preserved in the Persian court at the present 
day. See Harem. 

Sir John Malcolm tells us that the sepulchre of 
Esther and Mordeeai stands near the centre of the city 
of Ilamadan. It is a square building, terminated by a 
dome, with an inscription in Hebrew upon it, trans- 
lated and sent to him by Sir Gore Ouseley, ambassador 
to the court of Persia, as follows : “Thursday, fifteenth 
of the month Adar, in the year 4474 from the creation 
of the world, was finished the building of this temple 
over the graves of Esther and Mordeeai, by the hands 
of the good-hearted brothers Elias and Samuel, the 
sons of the deceased Tshmael of Kaslian.” According 
to the vulgar Jewish ajra, this would have been not 
more than eleven centuries ago; but the date may be 
after the computation of the Eastern Jews, which would 
make it about A.D. 250. Local tradition says that it 
was thoroughly repaired about 175 years since by a 
Jewish rabbi named Ismael (lvitto, Piet. Bible , at Esth. 
x, 1). See Achmetha. 



Tomb of Jlurdeciii and Esther. 


3. Proposed Identifications with Personages in Profane 
History . — The question as to the identity of the Per- 
sian king referred to in connection with Esther is dis- 
cussed under Aiiasuerus, and the reasons there given 
load to tiie conclusion that he was Xerxes, the son of 
Darius Hystaspis. .(See, however, a contrary view in 
the Jour, of tine. Lit. July, 18(10, p. 40(1 sq.) 

A second inquiry remains, Who, then, was Esther? 
Artissonn, A fossa, and others are indeed excluded by 
the above, decision ; but are we to conclude, with Scai- 
icrer, that because Aiiasuerus is Xerxes, therefore 
Esther is Amestris? Surely not. None of the his- 
torical particulars related by Herodotus concerning 
Amestris (Herod ix, 108; comp. Ctesias, ap. Photius, 
Cod. 72, p. 57) make it possible to identify lier with 
Esther. Amestris was the daughter of O tunes (Ono- 
plias in Ctesias), one of Xerxes's generals, and brother 
to his father Darius (Ilerod. vii, Gl, 82). Esther’s fa- 
ther and mother had been Jews. Amestris was wife 
to Xerxes before the Greek expedition (Ilerod. vii, 
61), and her sons accompanied Xerxes to Greece 


(Ilerod. vii, 30), and had all three come to man’s es- 
tate at the death of Xerxes in the 20th year of his 
reign. Darius, the eldest, had married immediately 
after the return from Greece. Esther did not enter 
the king's palace till his 7th year, just the time of 
Darius’s marriage. These objections are conclusive, 
without adding the difference of character of the two 
queens. The truth is that history is wholly silent 
both about Yashti and Esther. Herodotus only hap- 
pens to mention one of Xerxes’s wives ; Scripture only 
mentions two, if indeed either of them were wives at 
all. But since we know that it was the custom of the 
Persian kings before Xerxes to have several wives, 
besides their concubines ; that Cyrus bad several 
(Ilerod. iii, 3); that Cambyses had four whose names 
are mentioned, and others besides (iii, 31, 32, 68); that 
Smerdis had several (ib. 68, 69) ; and that Darius had 
six wives, whose names are mentioned (ib. passim), it 
is most improbable that Xerxes should have been con- 
tent with one wife. Another strong objection to the 
idea of Esther being his one legitimate wife, and per- 
haps to her being strictly his wife at all, is that the 
Persian kings selected their wives not from the harem, 
but, if not foreign prineesses, from the noblest Persian 
families, either tlicir own nearest relatives, or from one 
of the seven great Persian houses. It seems therefore 
natural to conclude that Esther, a captive, and one of 
the harem, was net of the highest rank of wives, but 
that a special honor, with the name of queen, may have 
been given to her, as to Yashti before her, as the favor- 
ite concubine or inferior wife, whose offspring, howev- 
er, if she had any, would not have succeeded to the 
Persian throne. 1 his view, which seems to be strict- 
ly in accordance with what wc know of the manners 
of the Persian court, removes all difficulty in reconcil- 
ing the history of Esther with the scanty accounts left 
us by profane authors of the reign of Xerxes. 

It may be convenient to add that the fd ye r of 
Xerxes, in which the banquet that was the occasion 
of Yashti’s divorce was held, was B.C. 488, h»s 7th, 
B.C. 479, and his 12th, B.C. 474 (Clinton, F. L .), and 
that the simultaneous battles of 1 lata?a and Myeale, 
which frightened Xerxes from Sardis (Diod. Sic. xi, 
36) to Susa, happened, according to Prideaux and 
Clinton, in September of bis 7tli year. For a fuller 
discussion of the identity of Esther, and different views 
of the subject, see Prideaux ’s Connexion, i, 2£0, 243, 
297 sq., and Petav. De doctr . temp, xii, 27, 28, who make 
Esther wife of Artaxerxes Longim., following Joseph. 
lnt. xi, 6, as he followed the Sept, and the apocryphal 
Esther; J. Scalig. (J)e emend, temp, vi, 591 ; Animadv. 
Euseb. p. 100) making Ahasuerus, Xerxes ; Usher (An- 
nal. Yet. Test.) making him Darius Hystaspis; Loftus, 
Chaldcea , etc. Eusebius {Canon. Chron. £38, ed. Mcdi- 
ol.) rejects the hypothesis of Artaxerxes Lon* im.cn 
the score of the silenee of the books of Ezra and Nehe- 
rniah, and adopts that of Artaxerxes Mnemon, follow- 
ing the Jew's, who make Darius Codoinannus to be the 
same as Darius Hystaspis, and the son of Artaxerxes 
by Esther ! It is most observable that all Petavius’s 
and Prideaux’s arguments against Sealiger’s view' ap- 
ply solely to the statement that Esther is Amestris. 
See Xerxes. 

4. The character of Esther, as she appears in the 
Bible, is that of a woman of deep piety, faith, courage, 
patriotism, and caution, combined w ith resolution ; a 
dutiful daughter to her adoptive father, docile and 
obedient to bis counsels, and anxious to share the 
king’s favor with him for the good of the Jewish peo- 
ple. That she was a virtuous woman, and, as far as 
her situation made it possible, a good wife to the king, 
her continued influence over him for so long a time 
warrants us to infer. There must have been a singu- 
lar grace and charm in her aspect and manners, since 
she “obtained favor in the sight of all that looked upon 
her’’ (ii, 15). That she was raised up as an instrument 
in the hands of God to avert the destruction of the 


ESTHER, BOOK OF 308 ESTHER. BOOK OF 


Jewish people, and to afford them protection, and for- 
ward their wealth and peace in their captivity, is also 
manifest from the Scripture account. But to impute 
to her the sentiments put in her mouth by the apocry- 
phal author of ch. xiv, or to accuse her of cruelty be- 
cause of the death of Hainan and his sons, and the sec- 
ond day’s slaughter of the Jews’ enemies at Shushan, 
is utterly to ignore the manners and feelings of her age 
and nation, and to judge her by the standard of Chris- 
tian morality in our own age and country instead. In 
fact, the simplicity and truth to nature of the scriptu- 
ral narrative afford a striking contrast both with the 
forced and florid amplifications of the apocryphal ad- 
ditions, and with the sentiments of some later com- 
mentators. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Debaeza, 
Historic Esther (in his Comment. Allegor. vi) ; Anon. Ate 
Assuero (in the Crit. Sac. Thes. Nov. i, 7G1) ; Robinson, 
Script. Char, ii ; Hughes, Esther and her People (Lond. 
1846); Justi, Ueb. d. Ahasaerus in Esther (in Eiehhorn’s 
Pcjyertor. xv, 1 sq.) ; Tyrwhitt, Esther and Ahasuerus 
(Lond. 1868, 2 vols. 8vo). 

ESTHER, Book of, the last of the historical books 
of the O. T., according to the arrangement in the Auth. 
Engl. Version. (See Davidson, in Horne’s Introd ., new 
ed., ii, 697 sq.) 

I. Contents, Name , and Place in the Canon . — In this 
book wc have an account of certain events in the his- 
tory of the Jews under the rule of the Persian king 
Ahasuerus (Achashverosh), doubtless the Xerxes of 
the Greek historians. Sec Ahasuerus 3. The writ- 
er informs us of a severe persecution with which they 
were threatened at the instigation of Ilam an, a favor- 
ite of the king, that sought in this way to gratify his 
jealousy and hatred of a Jew, Mordecai, who, though 
in the service of the king, refused to render to Hainan 
the homage which the king had enjoined, and which 
his other servants rendered; he describes in detail the 
means by which this was averted through the influ- 
ence of a Jewish maiden called “Hadassah, that is, 
Esther,” the cousin of Mordecai, who had been raised 
to be the wife of the king, along with the destruction 
of Hainan and the advancement of Mordecai ; he tells 
us how the Jews, under the sanction of the king, and 
witli the aid cf his officers, rose up against their ene- 
mies, and slew them to the number of 75,000; and he 
concludes by informing ns that the festival of Purim 
was instituted among the Jews in commemoration of 
this remarkable passage in their history. From the 
important part played by Esther in this history, the 
book bears her name. It is placed among the liagio- 
grapha (q. v.) or Kethubim' (C^rS) by the Jews, 
and in that first portion of them which they call the 
five M<gilloth (ri£^*3, rolls'), or books read in the syn- 
agogue on special festivals; the season appropriate to 
it being the feast of Purim, held on the l lth and loth 
of the month Adar, of the origin of which it contains 
the account, lienee it stands in the Hebrew Canon 
after Kohcleth or Ecclesiastes, according to the order 
of time in which the Megilloth are read. By the .lews 
it is called the Megillah, by way of eminence, either 
from the importance they attach to its contents, or 
from the circumstance that from a very early period 
it came to he written on a special roll (nsS'S) for use ' 
in the synagogue (Ilottinger, Thes. Phil. p. 494). In 
the Sept, it appears with numerous additions, prefixed, 
interspersed, and appended ; many of which betray a 
later origin, but which arc so inwrought with the orig- , 
inal story as to make with it a continuous and, on tiic j 
whole, harmonious narrative. By the Christians it 
has been variously placed ; the Vulgate places it be- 
tween Tohit and Judith, and appends to it the apocry- 
phal additions [see uext article]; the Protestant ver- 
sions commonly follow Luther in placing it at the end 
of the historical hooks. 

II. Canonicity. — Among the Jews this hook has al- 
ways been held in the highest esteem. There is some 


ground for believing that the feast of Purim was by 
some of the more ancient Jews opposed as an unli- 
censed novelty (Talm. llieros. Megilloth, io\. 70; Light- 
foot, Uor. 11 tb . ad Job. x, 22); but there is no trace 
of any doubt being thrown by them on the canonicitv 
of the book. By the more modern Jews it has been 
elevated to a place beside the law, and above the oth- 
er hagiograplia, and even the prophets (Pfeiffer, Thes. 
llermen. p. 597 sq. ; Carpzov, Introd. p. 366 sq.). In- 
deed, it is a saying of Maimonides that in the days of 
the Messiah the prophetic and hagiographical books 
will pass away, except the book of Esther, which will 
remain with the Pentateuch. This book is read through 
by the Jews in their synagogues at the feast of Purim, 
when it was, and is still in some synagogues, the cus- 
tom at the mention of Hainan’s name to hiss, and 
stamp, and clench the fist, and cry, Let his name be 
blotted out; may the name of the wicked rot. It is 
said, also, that the names of Hainan’s ten sons arc read 
in one breath, to signify that they all expired at the 
same instant of time. Even in writing the names of 
Hainan’s sons in the 7th, 8th, arid 9th verses of Esth. 
ix, the Jewish scribes have contrived to express their 
abhorrence of the race of Hainan ; for these ten names 
are written in three perpendicular columns of 3, 3, 4, 
as if they were hanging upon three parallel cords, 
three upon each cord, one above another, to represent 
the hanging of Hainan’s sons (Stehelin’s Pabbinical 
Literature, ii, 349). The Targum of Esth. ix, in Wal- 
ton's Polyglot, inserts a very minute account of the 
exact position occupied by Hainan and his sons on the 
gallows, the height from the ground, and the interval 
between each; according to which they all hung in 
one line, Haman at the top, and his ten sons at inter- 
vals of half a cubit under him. It is added that Ze- 
resh and Hainan’s seventy surviving sons fled, and 
begged their bread from door to door, in evident allu- 
sion to Psa. cix, 9, 10. Some of the ancient Jewish 
teachers were somewhat staggered at the peculiarity 
of this book, that the name of God docs not once occur 
in it ; but others accounted for it by saying that it was 
a transcript, under divine inspiration, from the Chron- 
icles of the Medes and Persians, and that, being meant 
to be read by heathen, the sacred name was wisely 
omitted. Baxter ( S tint's Ilest, pt. iv, chap, iii) speaks 
of the Jews using to cast to the ground the book of 
Esther because the name of God was not in it. (See 
Bureau's Principles of Interpretation, and Hottinger's 
Thes. Phil. p. 488.) But Wolf {Bibl. llebr. part ii, p. 
90) denies this, and says that if any such custom pre- 
vailed among the Oriental Jews, to whom it is as- 
cribed by Sandy*, it must have been rather to express 
their hatred of Haman. Certain it is that this book 
was always reckoned in the Jewish canon, and is 
named or implied in almost every enumeration of the 
books composing it, from Josephus downwards. 

It lias been questioned whether Josephus considered 
the book of Esther as written before or after the close 
of the canon. Du Pin maintains that, as Josephus as- 
serts [see Deutero-canoxicai.] that the sacred hooks 
were all written between the time of Moses and the 
reign {ap\tj) of Artaxerxes, and {Ant. xi) places the 
history of Esther in that reign, he consequently in- 
cludes it among those books which he says were of in- 
ferior authority, as written under and since the reign 
of that prince ( Complete Hist, of the Canon , p. 6). Eich- 
liorn, on the other hand, favors the opinion that Jose- 
phus meant to include the reign of that prince within 
the prophetical period, and concludes that this histori- 
an considered the book of Esther as the latest of the 
canonical writings. 

1 u the Christian Church the hook of Esther has not 
been so generally received. Jerome mentions it by 
name in the Prohg. Cal., in his Epistle to Paulinus, 
and in the preface to Esther; as does Augustine, l)e 
Cirit. Dei, and Do Doctr. Christ., and Origen, as cited 
by Eusebius {Hist. Eccles. vi, 25), and many others* 


ESTHER, BOOK OF 309 ESTHER, BOOK OF 


Whilst apparently accepted without question hy the 
churches of the West in the early centuries, the testi- 
mony of the Eastern Church concerning it is more 
fluctuating. It is omitted in the catalogue of Melito, 
an omission which is shared with Nchemiah, and which 
some would account for by supposing that both these 
books were included by him under Ezra, a supposition 
that may be admitted in reference to Nehemiah, but 
is less probable in reference to Esther, Origcn inserts 
it, though not among the historical books, but after 
Job, which is supposed to indicate some doubt regard- 
ing it on his part. In the catalogues of the Council 
of Laodicea, of the apostolical canons, of Cyrill of Je- 
rusalem, and of Epiphanius, it stands among the ca- 
nonical books ; by Gregory of Nazianzus it is omit- 
ted ; in the Synopsis Scrip. Sac. it is mentioned as said 
by some of the ancients to he accepted by the Hebrews 
as canonical ; and by Athanasius it is rauked among 
the avaynnoGKoptva, not among the canonical books. 
These differences undoubtedly indicate that this book 
did not occupy the same unquestioned place in gener- 
al confidence as the other canonical books of the 0. 
T, ; but the force of this, as evidence, is greatly weak- 
ened by the fact that it was not on historical or critical 
grounds, but rather on grounds of a dogmatical na- 
ture, and of subjective feeling, that it was thus treat- 
ed. On the same grounds, at a later period, it was 
subjected to doubt, even in the Latin Church (Junilius, 
De partibus Leg . Div. c. 3). At the time of the Refor- 
mation, Luther, on the same grounds, pronounced the 
hook more worthy to be placed “ extra eanoncm” than 
“in canone” {De servo arbitrio ; comp, his Tisch reden, 
iv, 403, Berlin ed. 1848), but in this he stood alone in 
the Protestant churches of his day ; nor was it till a 
comparatively recent period that his opinion found any 
advocates. The first who set himself systematically 
to impugn the claims of the book was Sender, and 
him Oeder, Corrodi, Augusti, Bertholdt, De Wette, and 
Bleck have followed. Eichhorn with some qualifica- 
tions, Jahn and Havernick unreservedly, have defend- 
ed its claims. 

The objections urged against the canonicitv of the 
book resolve themselves principally into these three — 
1. That it breathes a spirit of narrow r , selfish, national 
pride and vindictiveness, very much akin to that dis- 
played by the later Jews, but wholly alien from the 
spirit which pervades the acknowledged books of the 
O. T. ; 2. That its untheocratic character is manifested 
in the total omission in it of the name of God, and of 
any reference to the divine providence and care of Is- 
rael ; and, 3. That many parts of it are so incredible as 
to give it the appearance rather of a fiction or romance 
than the character of a true history (Bertholdt, De 
Wette, etc.). In regard to the first of these, whilst it 
must be admitted that the spirit and conduct of the 
Jews, of whom the author of this book writes, are not 
those which the religion of the 0. T. sanctions, it re- 
mains to be asked whether, in what he narrates of 
them, he has not simply followed the requirements of 
historical fidelity' : and it remains to be proved that he 
lias in any way indicated that his own sympathies and 
convictions went along with theirs. There can be lit- 
tle doubt that among the Jews of whom he writes a 
very different state of religious and moral feeling pre- 
vailed from what belonged to their nation in the better 
days of the theocracy. The mere fact that they pre- 
ferred remaining in the land of the heathen to going 
up with their brethren who availed themselves of the 
permission of Cyrus to return to JucUea, shows how 
little of the true spirit of their nation remained with 
them. This being the case, the historian could do 
nothing else than place before us such a picture as that 
which this book presents; had he done, otherwise he 
would not have narrated the truth. It does not fol- 
low from this, however, that he himself sympathized 
with those of whom he wrote, in their motives, feel- 
ings, and conduct, or that the spirit dominant in them 


is the spirit of his writing. It is true, occasions may 
frequently present themselves in the course of his nar- 
rative when he might have indulged in reflections of 
an ethical or didactic character on what lie has nar- 
rated, but to do this may not have been in the plan 
and conception of his work, and he may therefore have 
intentionally avoided it. 

Observations to the same effect may be made on the 
second objection. If the purpose of the author was to 
relate faithfully and without comment the actions and 
words of persons who were living without any vital 
recognition of God, the omission of all reference to God 
in the narrative will be sufficiently accounted for by 
this circumstance. If it be said, But a pious man 
would have spontaneously introduced some such refer- 
ence, even though those of whom he wrote gave him 
no occasion to do so by their own modes of speech or 
acting, it may suffice to reply that, as we are ignorant 
of the reasons which moved the author to abstain from 
all remarks of his own on what he narrates, it is not 
competent for us to conclude from the omission in ques- 
tion that he was not himself a pious man. If again it 
be said, How can a book which simply narrates the 
conduct of Jews who had to a great extent forgotten, 
if they had not renounced the worship of Jehovah, 
without teaching any moral lessons in connection with 
this, be supposed to have proceeded from a man under 
God’s direction in what he wrote, it may he replied 
that a book may have a most excellent moral tendency, 
and be full of important moral lessons, even though 
these are not formally announced in it. That it is so 
with the book of Esther may be seen from such a work 
as M‘Crie’s Lectures on this book, where the great les- 
sons of the hook are expounded with the skill of one 
whose mind had been long and deeply versed in his- 
torical research. As the third objection above noticed 
rests on the alleged unhistorical character of the book, 
its force will be best estimated after we have consider- 
ed the next head. 

III. Credibility. — In relation to this point three opin- 
ions have been advanced: 1. That the hook is wholly 
unhistorical, a mere legend or romance ; 2. That it has 
a historical basis, and contains some true statements, 
but that with these much of a fabulous kind is inter- 
mixed; 3. That the narrative is throughout true his- 
tory. Of these opinions the first lias not found manj r 
supporters: it is obviously incompatible with the re- 
ception of the book into the Jewish canon ; for, how- 
ever late be the date assigned to the closing of the 
canon, it is incredible that what must have been known 
to he a mere fable, if it is one, could have found a 
place there ; it is incompatible with the early observ- 
ance by the Jews of the feast of Puriin, instituted to 
commemorate the events recorded here (comp. 2 Mace, 
xv, 36) ; and it is rendered improbable by the minute- 
ness of some of the details, such as the names of the 
seven eunuchs (i, 10), the seven officers of the king (i, 
14), the ten sons of Haman (ix, 7-10), and the general 
accurate acquaintance with the manners, habits, and 
contemporary history of the Persian court which the 
author exhibits. (See the ample details on this head 
collected by Eichhorn and Havernick, Einhit. II, i, 
338-357). The reception of the book into the canon 
places a serious difficulty in the way of the second 
opinion ; for if those who determined this would not 
have inserted a book wholly fabulous, they would as 
little have inserted one in which fable and truth were 
indiscriminately mixed. It may be proper, however, 
to notice the parts which are alleged to be fabulous, 
for only thus can the objection be satisfactorily re- 
futed. First, then, it is asked, How can it be believed 
that if the king had issued a decree that all the Jews 
should be put to death, he would have published this 
twelve months before it was to take effect (iii, 12, 13)? 
But, if this seem incredible to us, it must, if unt*uc, 
have appeared no less incredible to those for whom 
the book was written ; and nothing can be more im« 


ESTHER 


310 


ESTHER 


probable than that a writer of any intelligence should 
by mistake have made a statement of this kind ; indeed, 
a fiction of this sort is exactly what a fabulist would 
have been most certain to have avoided ; for, knowing 
it not to be in accordance with fact and usage, he must 
have been sure that its falsehood would be at once de- 
tected. Secondly, It is said to be incredible that the 
king, when he repented of having issued such an edict, 
should, as it could not he recalled, have granted per- 
mission to the Jews to defend themselves by the 
slaughter of their enemies, and that they should have 
been permitted to do this to such an extent as to de- 
stroy 75,000 of his own subjects. To our habits of 
thinking this certainly appears strange; but we must 
not measure the conduct of a monarch like Xerxes by 
such a standard : the caprices of Oriental despots are 
proverbially startling, their indifference to human life 
appalling; and Xerxes, as we know from other sources, 
was apt even to exceed the limits of ordinary Oriental 
despotism in these respects (comp. Herod, i, 183; vii, 
35, 30, 238 ; ix, 108-113 ; Justin, ii, 10, 11). Now if it 
be true, as Diodorus Siculus relates, that Xerxes put 
the Medians foremost at Thermopylae on purpose that 
they might all be killed, because lie thought they were 
not thoroughly reconciled to the loss of their national 
supremacy, it is surely not incredible that lie should 
have given permission to Hainan to destroy a few 
thousand strange people like the Jews, who were rep- 
resented to be injurious to his empire, and disobedient 
to his laws. Nor, again, when, we remember what 
Herodotus relates of Xerxes in respect to promises 
made at banquets, can we deem it incredible that he 
should perform his promise to Esther to reverse the 
decree in the only way that seemed practicable. It is 
likely, too, that the secret friends and adherents of 
Hainan would be the persons to attack the Jews, 
which would be a reason why Ahasuerus would rather 
rejoice at their destruction. Thirdly, it is asked how 
can we believe that the king would issue an edict to 
all his subjects that every man should bear rule in his 
own house (i, 22)? We reply that, as the edicts of 
Oriental despots are not all models of wisdom and dig- 
nity, here seems to us nothing improbable in the 
statement that such an edict was, under the circum- 
stances, issued by Ahasuerus. Fourthly, Is it credi- 
ble, it is asked, that Esther should have been so long 
a time in the palace of the king without her descent 
being known to the king or to Hainan, as appears to 
have been the case ? We reply that it does not ap- 
pear certain that her Jewish descent was unknown ; 
and, if it were, we are too little acquainted with the 
usages of the Persian royal luirem to he able to judge 
whether this was an unlikely thing to occur or not: 
we may suggest, however, that the writer of the his- 
tory was somewhat more likely to know the truth on 
such points than German professors in the 10th century. 

The casual wa}' in which the author of 2 Macc. xv, 
33 alludes to the feast of Purim, under the name of 
“ Mardochsens’s day,” as kept by the Jews in the time 
of Nic.inor, is another strong testimony in its favor, 
and tends to justify the strong expression of I)r. Lee 
(quoted in Whiston’s Josephus, xi, ch. vi), that “the 
truth of this history is demonstrated by the feast of 
Purim, kept up from that time to this very day.” 

The style of writing is remarkably chaste and sim- 
ple, and the narrative of the struggle in Esther’s mind 
between fear and the desire to save her people, and of 
the final resolve made in the strength of that help 
which was to be sought in prayer and fasting, is very 
touching and beautiful, and without any exaggera- 
tion. Even I)e Wette observes that the hook is sim- 
ple in its style, free from declamation, and thus ad- 
vantageously distinguished from the similar stories in 
the Apocrypha (Introduction) Parker’s translation, Pos- 
ton, 18-13). 

TV. Authorship and Date . — Augustine ( De Ci vital e 
Dei ) ascribes the book to Ezra. Eusebius {Chronic. 


[ xlvii, d. 4), who observes that the facts of the history 
are posterior to the time of Ezra, ascribes it to some 
later but unknown author. Clemens Alcxandrinus 
( Stromata , lib. 5, p. 329) assigns it and the book of 
Maccabees to Mordecai. The pseudo-Philo ( Ckrono - 
graphia ) and Rabbi Azarias maintain that it was writ- 
ten at the desire of Mordecai by Jehoiakim, son of 
. Joshua, who was high-priest in the 12th year of the 
I reign of Artaxerxes. The subscription to the Alexan- 
drian version states that the epistle regarding the feast 
' of Purim was brought by Dositheus into Egypt, under 
Ptolemy and Cleopatra (P C. cir. 1G0) ; but it is well 
! known that these subscriptions are of little authority. 
' The authors of the Talmud say that it was written by 
the members of the Great Synagogue (q. v.), who also 
wrote Ezekiel and the twelve Prophets. Put the 
j whole account of the Great Synagogue, said to have 
been instituted by Ezra, and concluded by Simon the 
Just, who is said to have closed the canon, and whose 
death took place B.C. 292, is by some looked upon as a 
rabbinical romance. Of all these suppositions, the 
ascription to Mordecai seems the most probable. The 
minute details given of the great banquet, of the names 
of the chamberlains and eunuchs, and Hainan’s wife 
' and sons, and of the customs and regulations of the 
palace, betoken that the author lived at Shushan, and 
probably at court, while his no less intimate acquaint- 
ance with the private affairs both of Esther and Mor- 
decai well suits the hypothesis of the latter being him- 
self the writer. It is also in itself probable that as 
Daniel, Ezra, and Nehemiali, who held high offices un- 
der the Persian kings, wrote an account of the affairs 
of the nation, in which they took a leading part, so 
Mordecai should have recorded the transactions of the 
: book of Esther likewise. The termination of the book 
with the mention of Mordecai’s elevation and govern- 
ment agrees also with this view, which has the fur- 
ther sanction of many great names, as Aben Ezra, and 
most of the Jews, Vatablus, Carpzov, and man}’- others. 
Those who ascribe it to Ezra, or the men of the Great 
I Synagogue, may have merely meant that Ezra edited 
1 and added it to the canon of Scripture, which he prob- 
ably did, bringing it, and perhaps the book of Daniel, 
with him from Babylon to Jerusalem. See Mordecai. 

That the hook was written after the downfall of the 
Persian monarchy in the time of the Maccabees is the 
conclusion of Bertholdt, De Wette, and Bleek. The 
reasons, however, which they assign for this are very 
feeble, and have been thoroughly nullified by Haver- 
nick. The latter supposes it to have been written at 
a much earlier date, and the reasons he urges for this 
are — 1. The statement in ix, 32, compared with x, 2, 
where the author places what he himself has written 
on a par in point of authenticity with what is recorded 
in the Persian annals, as if contemporary productions; 
2. The vividness, accuracy, and minuteness of his de- 
tails respecting the Persian court ; 3. The language of 
the book, as presenting, with some Persianisms, and 
some words of Chaldaic affinity, which do not occur in 
older Hebrew (such as TSNFa, *j5*rr3, Z:"'Z“>w3), 

those idioms which characterize the books of Ezra, 
Nehciniah, and Chronicles; and, 4. The fact that the 
closing of the canon cannot he placed later than the 
reign of Artaxerxes, so that an earlier date must he 
assigned to this book, which is included in it. See 
Ezra. Whether the hook was w ritten in Palestine or 
in Persia is uncertain, but probability inclines to the 
latter supposition. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

VI. Commentaries. — The following are separate ex- 
egetical works on the canonical portion of the book 
of Esther, in addition to the formal Introductions to 
that portion. of Scripture, and exclusive of the purejy 
rabbinical treatises on the Jewish usages referred to 
in the book; the most important have an asterisk (*) 
prefixed : Raban Maurus, Comment arii (in Opp.); Ara- 
ma, (Constantinople, 1518, 4to); Banolas, ’-WiD 


ESTHER 


311 


ESTHER 


(Biva di Trento, 1560, 4to); Strigel, Scholia (Lips. 
1571, 1572, 8vo) ; Brentius, Commentarii (Tubing. 1575, 
4to; in Engl. ln r Stockwood, Loud. 1584, Svo) ; Aske- 
n:izi, rt£b rDi 1 (Cremona, 1576, 4to, etc.); Feuar- 
dent, Comment aria (Par. 1585, Svo, etc.); Melammed, 
“O'TnTa TSISfG (Constantpl. 1585, 4to) ; *Drusius, An- 
notation's (Leyd. 1586, Svo) ; *Senarius, Commentarii 
(Mogunt.1590, lol. , etc.) ; Zahalon, EV12N; (Ven. 
1594, 4to) ; Alsheich, ST3T3 PXE-a ( Ven.’ 1601, 4 to) ; 
Cooper, Notes (London, 1609, 4to); D’Aquine, Huschii 
Scholia (Par. 1622, 4to) ; Wolder, Dispositions (Dantz. 
1625, 4to); *Sanctius, Commentarii (Leyd. 1628, fol.); 
Conzio, Commento (Cliicri, 1628, 4to) ; Duran, 

(Veil. 1632, 4to) ; Crommitis, Theses (Lovan.1632, 
4to) ; Merkel, ^^7 ^7*"^ (Lublin, 1637, 4to); *Bo- 
nait, Commentaries (Col. Agr. 1647, fob); Montanus, 
Commentarius (Madr. 1648, fol.) ; Trapp, Commentary 
(London, 1656, fob); De Celada, Commentarii (Lngd. 
1658, fob); Jackson, Explanation (London, 1658, 4to) ; 
Barnes, Paraphi'asis poetica (Loud. 1679, Svo); Adam, 
Observations (Groningen, 1710, 4to); Bamlnieh, Notes 
(in his Adnot. 1 ’. T. ii, 1043); Heumann, Estkerie auc- 
toiitas (Dotting. 1736, 4to) ; TMeir, *j7? HSTl (Fiirth, 
1737, Svo); Nestorides, Annotazioni (Ven. 1746, 4to); 
Ancher. De auctoritate Esthers (Havn. 1772, 4to) ; Cru- 
sius, Niitzl. Gebrauch der B. Esther (from the Latin, 
Lpz. 1773, 4to) ; *Vos, Oratio (Ultr. 1775, 4to) ; Zinck, 
Commentarius (Augsb. 1780, 4to) ; De Bossi, Yar. Lect. 
(Borne, 1782, 8vo) ; Pereles, r'irsn P’fcjl (Prague, 
1784, 4to); Wolfssohn, “IPOX (Berl. 1788, Svo); Lam- 
son, Discourses (Edinb. 1804, 12mo) ; Lowe, ^77 
(Nouydwor, 1801, 4to); *Schirmer, Cbservationes (Vra- 
tislav. 1820, 8vo); *Kele, Vindide (Freib. 1820, 4to) ; 
*Calmberg, Conmientarius (Hamb. 1837, 4to) ; *M‘Crie, 
Lectures ( Works, 1838, Svo); *Eaumgarten, De fide 
Esther ee (Hal. 1839, Svo) ; Morgan, Esther typical (Lon- 
don, 1855, Svo); Crosthwaite, Lectures (London, 1858, 
12mo); Davidson, Lectures (Edinb. 1859, Svo); *Ber- 
tlieau (in the Kurzgef. ex eg. Uandb. Lpz. 18G2, Svo) ; 
Oppert, Commentaire d'apres les inscriptions Perses 
(Par. 1864, Svo). See Old Testament. 

ESTHER, Apocryphal additions to the Booh 
of. — Besides the many minor deviations from the He- 
brew, there are six important additions in the Septua- 
gint and the other ancient versions of the book of 
Esther. 

1. Title and Position. — In the Sept, and the Old 
Latin these additions are dispersed through the canoni- 
cal book, forming therewith a well-adjusted whole, and 
have therefore no separate title. St. Jerome, however, 
separated them in his translation, and removed them to 
the end of the book, because they are not found in the 
Hebrew. They are, therefore, in this position in the 
M SS. and the printed editions of the Vulgate, and form, 
according to cardinal Hugo’s division, the last seven 
chapters of the canonical Esther. Luther, who was 
the first that separated the apocryphal from the canoni- 
cal books, entirely detached these additions, and placed 
them among the Apocrypha under the title “ Stucke in 
Esther .” In the Zurich Bible, where the apocryphal 
and canonical books are also separated, the canonical 
volume is called 1 Esther , and these additions are de- 
nominated 2 Esther. Our English versions, though 
following Luther's arrangements, are not uniform in 
their designation of these additions. Thus Coverdale 
calls them “ The chapters of the book of Hester , which 
are not found in the text of the Hebrew , but in the Greek 
and Latin.” In Matthews and the Bishops’ Bible, 
which arc followed by the A. V., they are entitled, 
''''The rest of the chapters of the book of Esther, which 
are found neither in the. Hebrew nor in the Chaldee ,” 
whilst the Geneva version adopts Luther’s title. 

The reason of their present confused arrangement 
seems to be this: When Jerome translated the hook 


of Esther, he first gave the version of the Hebrew outy 
as being alone authentic. He then added at the end 
a version in Latin of those several passages which he 
found in the Sept., and which w r ere not in the Hebrew, 
stating where each passage came in, and marking them 
I all with an obelus. The first passage so given is that 
which forme the continuation of ch. x (which of course 
immediately precedes it), ending with the entry about 
Dositbeus. Having annexed this conclusion, he then 
gives the Procemhm , which lie says forms the begin- 
ning of the Greek Vulgate, beginning with what is 
now ver. 2 of ch. xi ; and so proceeds with the other 
passages. But in subsequent editions all Jerome’s ex- 
planatory matter has been swept away, and the dis- 
jointed portions have been printed as ch. xi, xii, xiii, 
xiv, xv, xvi, as if thejr formed a narrative in continu- 
ance of the canonical hook. The extreme absurdity 
of this arrangement is now here more apparent than in 
| ch. xi, where the verse (1) which closes the whole 
i book in the Gieek copies, and in St. Jerome’s Latin 
translation, is actually made immediately to precede 
that (ver. 2) w hich is the very first verse of the Prooe- 
mium. As regards the place assigned to Esther in the 
printed Sept., in the Vatican edition (not MS.), and 
most others, it comes between Judith and Job. Its 
place before Job is a remnant of the Hebrew order, 
Esther there closing the historical, and Job beginning 
the metrical Megilloth. Tobit and Judith have been 
placed between it and Nehemiah, doubtless for chro- 
nological reasons. But in the ancient MSS. the posi- 
tion is different. See Bible. 

II. Design and Contents . — The object of these addi- 
tions is to give a more decidedly religious tone to the 
record contained in the book of Esther, and to show 
more plainly how wonderfully the God of Israel inter- 
posed to save his people and confound their enemies. 
This the writer has effected by elaborating upon the 
events narrated in the canonical volume as follows : 

1. Ch. i, 1 of the canonical volume is preceded in 
the Sept, by a piece which tells us that Mordecai, w ho 
w r as in the sen ice of Artaxerxes, dreamt of the dan- 
gers w hich threatened his people, and of their deliver- 
ance (ver. 1-12). lie afterwards discovered a con- 
spiracy against the king, w hich he discloses to him, 
and is greatly rewarded for it (ver. 13-18). This is, in 
the Vulgate and Eng. version, ch. xi, 2-xii, 6. 

2. Between ver. 13 and 14 of ch. iii in the canonical 
book, the Septuagint gives a copy of the king’s edict 
addressed to all the satraps, to destroy without com- 
passion that foreign and rebellious people, the Jews, 
lor the good of the Persian nation, in the fourteenth 
day of the twelfth month of the coming year. This is, 
in the Vulg. and Eng. version, ch. xiii, 1-7. 

3. At the end of ch. iv, 17 of the canonical hook, the 
Sept, has two prayers of Mordecai and Esther, that 
God may avert the impending destruction of his peo- 
ple. This, is, in the Vulg. and Eng. version, ch. xiii, 
8-xiv, 19. 

4. Between ver. 1 and 2 of ch. v in the canonical 
book, the Sept, inserts a detailed account of Esther’s 
visit to the king. This is, in the Vulg. and Eng. ver- 
sion, ch. xv, 1-16. 

5. Between ver. 13 and 14 of ch. viii in the canoni- 
cal books, the Sept, gives a copy of the edict, which 
the king sent to all his satraps, in accordance w ith the 
request of Mordecai and Esther, to abolish his former 
decree against the Jew’s. This is, in the A ulg. and 

i Eng. version, ch. xvi, 1-24. 

6. At the close of the canonical book, ch. x, 3, the 
Sept, has a piece in w hich we arc told that Mordecai 
had now recalled to his mind his extraordinary dream, 
and seen how r literally it had been fulfilled in all its 
particulars. It also gives us an account of the procla- 
mation of the Purim festival in Egypt. 

The whole book is closed with the following entry : 
“ In the fourth year of the reign of Ptolemasus and 
Cleopatra, Dositbeus, who said he w’as a priest and 


ESTHER 


312 


ESTHE1 


Levitc, ami Ptolemy his son, brought this epistle of 
Phurim, which they said was the same, and that Lv- 
simachus, the son of Ptolemy, that was in Jerusalem, 
had interpreted it.” This entry was apparently in- 
tended to give authority to this Greek version of 
Estihor by pretending that it was a certified transla- 
tion from the Hebrew original. Ptolemy Philometor, 
who is here meant, began to reign B.C. 181. He is 
the same as is frequently mentioned in 1 Macc. (e. g. x, 
57 ; xi, 1*2; eomp. Joseph. Ant. xiii, 4, land 5, and Clin- 
ton, F. II. iii, 393). I )ositheus seems to be a Greek ver- 
sion of Mattithiah ; Ptolemy was also a common name 
for Jews at that tinrn. 

111. Origin , historical Character , and Unity . — The 
patriotic spirit with which the Jewish nation so fondly 
expatiated upon the remarkable events and characters 
of by-gone days, and which gave rise to those beautiful 
legends preserved in their copious literature, scarcely 
ever had a better opportunity afforded to it for em- 
ploying its richly inventive powers to magnify the 
great Jehovah, embalm the memory of the heroes, and 
brand the names of the enemies of Israel, than in the 
canonical book of Esther. Nothing could be more 
natural for a nation who “have a zeal of God” than 
to supply the name of God, and to print out more distinct- 
ly his interposition in their behalf in an inspired book, 
which, though recording their marvellous escape from 
destruction, had for some reasons omitted avowedly 
to acknowledge the Lord of Israel. Besides, the book 
implies and suggests far more than it records, and it 
cannot be doubted that there are many other things 
connected with the history it contains which were 
well known at the time, and were transmitted to the 
nation. This is evident from the fact that Josephus 
(.4«L xi, 6, 6 sq.) gives the edict for the destruction 
of the Jews in the Persian empire, the prayers of Mor- 
decai and Esther, and the second edict authorizing the 
Jews to destro 3 r their enemies, also mentioning the 
name of the eunuch’s servant, a Jew, who betrayed 
the conspiracy to Mordecai, and citing other passages 
from the Persian chronicles read to Ahasuerus, besides 
that relating to Mordecai, and amplifications of the 
king’s speech to Hainan, etc.; and that the second 
Targum, the Chaldee, published by De Rossi, and 
Josippon ben-Gorion (ed. Breithaupt, p. 74 sq.), give 
the dream of Mordecai, as well as his prayer and that 
of Esther. 

The first addition which heads the canonical book, 
and in which Mordecai foresees in a dream both the 
dangers and the salvation of bis people, is in accord- 
ance with the desire to give the whole a more religious 
tone. The second addition originated from the fact 
that eh. iii, 13 of the canonical book speaks of the royal 
edict, hence this piece pretends to give a copy of the 
said document; the same is the case with tiie third 
addition, which follows ch. iv, 17, and gives the prayers 
of Mordecai and Esther, for the said passage in the 
canonical volume relates that Esther ordered prayers 
to be offered. The fourth addition after ch. v, 1, giving 
a detailed account of Esther’s interview with the king, 
originated from a desire to give more information upon 
the fact, which is simply alluded to in the canonical 
passage. The fifth addition, after ch. viii, 13, origin- 
ated in the same manner as the second, viz. in a desire j 
to supply a copy of the royal edict, while the sixth ad- 
dition, after ch. x, 3, beautifully concludes with an in- ■ 
terpretation of the dream with which the first addition 
commences the canonical volume. From this analysis 
it will be seen that these supplementary and embel- 
lishing additions are systematically dispersed through 
the hook, and form a well-adjusted and continuous 
history. In the Vulgate, however, which is followed 
by the versions of the Reformers on the Continent 
and our English translations, where these 'additions 
are torn out of the proper connection ambremoved to a 
separate place, they arc most incomprehensible. 

1\. Author, Date , and original Language . — From 


what has been remarked in the foregoing section, it 
will at once he apparent that these apocryphal addi- 
tions were neither manufactured by the translator of 
the canonical Esther into Greek, nor are they the pro- 
duction of the Alexandrian nor of any other school or 
individual, but embody some of the numerous national 
j stories connected with this marvellous deliverance of 
I God’s ancient people, the authorship of which is lost 
in the nation. Many of them date as far back as the 
nucleus of the event itself, around which they cluster, 
and all of them grew up at first in the vernacular 
language of the people (i. e. in Hebrew or Aramaic), 
but afterwards assumed the complexion and language 
of the countries in which the Jews happened to settle 
down. Besides the references given in the preceding 
section which lead us to these conclusions, we also re- 
fer to the two Midrashim published by Jellinek in his 
Beth Ila-Midrash , i (Lpz. 1853), 1 sq. In ch. iii the 
pretended copy of Arta xerxes’s decree for the destruc- 
tion of the Jews is written in thorough Greek style ; 
the prayer of Esther excuses her for being wife to the 
1 uncircumeised king, and denies her having eaten any- 
thing or drunk wine at the table of Hainan; the pre- 
tended copy of Artaxerxes’s letter for reversing the 
previous decree is also of manifestly Greek origin in 
ch. viii, in which Hainan is called a Macedonian, and 
is accused of having plotted to transfer the empire from 
the Persians to the Macedonians, a palpable proof of 
this portion having been composed after the overthrow 
of the Persian empire by the Greeks. 

V. Canonicity of these Additions . — It is of this Sept, 
version that Athanasius (Fest. Epist. p. 30, Oxf. trans- 
lation) spoke when he ascribed the book of Esther to 
the uon-eanoiiical books ; and this, also, is perhaps the 
reason why, in some of the lists of the canonical books, 
Esther is not named, as, e. g. in those of Melito of Sar- 
dis and Gregory Nazianzen (see Whitaker, Disput. on 
II. Scr. Park. Soc. p. 57, 58 ; Cosin oil the Canon of 
Scr. p. 49, 50), unless in these it is included under 
some other book, as Ruth or Esdrns (“this book of Es- 
ther, or sixth of Esdras, as it is placed in some of the 
most ancient copies of the Vulgate,” Lee’s Dissert, on 
2d Esdras , p. 25). The fathers, who regarded the Sep- 
tuagint as containing the sacred scriptures of the 0. 
T., believed in the canonicity of these additions. Even 
j Origen, though admitting that they are not in the He- 
brew, defended their canonicity {Ep. ad African, ed. 
West, p. 2254, and the Council of Trent pronounced 
the whole hook of Esther, with all its parts, to be ca- 
nonical. These additions, however, were never in- 
cluded in the Hebrew canon, and the fact that Jose- 
phus quotes them only shows that he believed them 
to be historically true, but not inspired. J5t. Jerome, 
who knew better than any other father what the an- 
cient Jews included in their canon, most emphatically 
declares them to he spurious (“ Librum Esther variis 
translatoribus constat esse vitiatmn ; qncm ego de ar- 
chivis Hebraeorum relevans, verbum e verbo expres- 
j sins transtuli. Quoin librum editio vulgata laciniosis 
bine inde verborum sinibus [al. funibus] trahit, addons 
ea qiue ex tempore did potcrant et audiri; sieut soli- 
tuni est scholaribus diseiplinis sumto themate exeogi- 
tare, quibus verbis uti potuit, qui injiiriam passus est, 
vel qui injuriam fecit,” Prcef in 1 Esth.). Sixtus Se- 
nensis, in spite of the decision of the council, speaks 
of these additions after the example of Jerome (as“la- 
cinias hinc inde quorumdani scriptorum temeritate in- 
sertas”), and thinks that they are chiefly derived from 
Josephus; but this last opinion is without probability. 
The manner and the order in which Josephus cites 
them (.IwL xi, vi) show that they had already, in his 
days, obtained currency among the Hellenistic Jews as 
portions of the book of Esther, as we know from the 
way in which lie cites other apocryphal books that 
they were current likewise, with others which are now 
lost; for it was probably from such that Josephus de- 
rived his stories about Moses, about Sanballat, and the 


ESTHER 


313 


ETERNAL 


temple on Mount Gerizim, and the meeting of the 
high-priest and Alexander the Great. 

VI. Literature . — Josephus, Ant. xi,G,G sq. ; the Mid- 
rash Esther; Targum Sheni on Esther, in Walton’s 
Polyglot^ vol. iv; Josippon ben-Gorion (ed. Breithaupt, 
1710), ]>. 72 sq. ; Whitaker, Disputation on Scripture 
(Park. Soe., ed. 1849), p. 71, etc. ; Usher, Syntagma de 
Grirca LXX inteipretum versione (London, 1G55)-; De 
Rossi, Specimen Variarum Lectionum sacri Textus et Ckal- 
daica Estheris Additamenta (Romaj, 1782); Eiehhorn, 
Einleitung in d. Apokr. Schriften d. A. T. (Leip. 1795), 
]). 483 sq. ; Fritzsche, ’EoSrijp, Duplicem lihri textum ad 
optimos cdd. emend, et cum selecta lectionis varietate (ed. 
Toriei, 1848) ; and by the same author, Exegetisches 
Ifandbuch z. d. Apolcr. d. A . T. i, G9 sq. ; Davidson, The 
Text of the 0. T. considered (Loud. 185G), p. 1010 sq. ; j 
Herzfeld, Geschuhte d. Yollces Israel, vol. i (Nordhau- 
sen, 1857), p. 305 sq. ; Keil, Lehrhuch der historisch - 
kritischen Einleitung , etc. (ed. 1859), p. 705 sq. ; Wolf’s I 
Bibl. llehr. p. 11, 88 sq. ; Hotting. Thesaur . p. 494; 
Walton, Proleg . ix, § 13 ; Nickes, De Esthers libro j 
(Rom. 1857, 1858); Baumgarten, De Fide Lib. Esther 
(Hal. 1839); Sehnurrer (ed.), Var. Led. Estheris (2d ed. 
Tubing. 1783). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Apoc- 
rypha. 

ESTHER, Fast of pttpK n*'3?S), so called from 
the fact that it was ordered l»y Esther to avert the 
impending destruction which at that time threatened 
the whole Jewish population of the Persian dominions 
(comp. Esther iv, 16, 17). The Jews to this day keep 
this fast on the 13th of Adar, the day which was ap- 
pointed for their extirpation, and which precedes the 
feast of Purim , because it was ordained both by Esther 
and Mordeeai, that it should continue a national fast, 
to be observed annually in commemoration of that 
eventful day (comp. Esther ix, 31). During the Mac- 
cabasan period, and for some time afterwards, this fast 
was temporarily superseded b} r a festival which was 
instituted to celebrate the anniversary of the victory 
obtained by Judas Maccaba?us over Nieanor on the 13 (h 
of Adar (comp. 1 Mace, vii, 49 ; Josephus, Ant. xii, 10, 
5; MegillathTaanith, c.xii; Josippon ben-Gorion, iii, 22, 
p. 244, ed. Breithaupt). But this festival has long since 
ceased to be celebrated, and as early as the ninth cen- 
tury of the Christian lera we find that th"fist of Esther 
was again duly observed (comp. Sheelthotli of R.Aehai, 
Purim 4), and it has continued ever since to be one of 
the fasts in the Jewish calendar. The Jews entirely 
abstain from eating and drinking on this day, and in- 
troduce into the dail} r service penitential psalms, and 
offer prayers w hich have been composed especially for 
this occasion. If the 13th of Adar happens to be on a 
Sabbath, this fast is kept on the Friday, because fast- 
ing is not allowed on the Sabbath day. Some Jews 
go so far as to fast three days, according to the example 
of Esther (comp, iv, G). — Kitto, s. v. See Calendar, 
Jewish. 

Estiennc. See Stephens. 

Estius, Gulielmus ( William Ilessels ran Est ), an 
eminent Roman Catholic theologian, was born at Gor- 
cmn, Holland, 1542, and studied at Utrecht and Lou- 
vain. He was for ten years professor at Louvain ; in 
1580 he became professor of divinity at Douai, and in 
1G03 chancellor of the University. Estius obtained 
great repute for learning and piety. Benedict XIV 
named him doctor fnndatissimns. He died at Douai 
Sept. 20, 1G13. ITis principal writings are Commenta - 
rii in Epistolas Apostolicas (Douai, 1G14-1G ; Col. 1031, 

3 vols. fol. in 1 ; Paris, 1G79, fol. ; Rouen, 1709, 2 vols. 
fol.) : — In quat. libros sententiarum commentarii (Par. 
1G38, fol. ; Naples, 1720) : — Annot. in pradpua dijjkili- 
ora S. S. (Antw. 1G21, fol.). II is Commentary on the 
Epistles is extolled alike by Romanists and Protes- 
tants. There is a new edition, edited by Sausen (May- 
ence, 1841, 8vo). — Horne, Jntrod. Bib. . 1 ppendix, p. 134 ; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gcnerale , xxiv, 588. 


Estrangelo. See Syriac Language. 

E'tam (Hebrew Eytam' , eyrie, i. e. place of 

ravenous birds; Sept. H rap in Judges, Airdp in 1 
Chron. iv, 3, elsewhere Aitciv ; Josephus A trap in Ant. 
v, 8, 8, lirape in Ant. viii, 10, 1, "HS'ap in Ant. viii, 7, 
3; Vulg. Etani), the name apparently of two places in 
Palestine. 

1. A village ("i}Sn) of the tribe of Simeon, specified 

only in the list in 1 Chron. iv, 32 (comp. Josh, xix, 7) ; 
but that it is intentionally introduced appears from the 
fact that the number of places is summed as five, 
though in the parallel list as four. Near this place 
(hence its name, q. d. eagle’s nest) was probably situ- 
ated a “rook” (23D, tt trpa, silex ) or cliff, into a cleft 
or chasm A.V. “ top”) of which Samson retired 

after his slaughter of the Philistines, in revenge for 
their burning the Timnite woman who was to have 
been his wife (Judg. xv, 8, 11). This natural strong- 
hold ( Trsrpa o’ tor'ii' o\vpd, Josephus, Ant. v, 8, 8) was 
in the territory usually assigned to the tribe of Judah, 
yet not far from the Philistine border ; and near it, 
probably at its foot, was Lehi or Ramath-lehi, and En- 
hak-kore (xv, 9, 14, 17, 19). As Van de Velde has, 
with great probability, identified Lehi with Lekiyeh, 
on the edge of the Philistine plain S.E. of Gaza (Aar- 
rative , ii, 141), he is probably also right in locating 
this Etam at tell Khewelfch, a little north of it ( Me- 
moir, p. 311), in the immediate vicinity of tell Kara 
or En-hakkore (q. v.). Schwarz’s location of Etam 
at Khvdna (he says Gutna , i. e. Utma, Palest, p. 124) is 
without support. 

2 . A city in the tribe of Judah, fortified and garri- 
soned b} 7 Rehoboam (2 Chron. xi, G). Fiom its posi- 
tion in this list we may conclude that it w r as near Beth- 
lehem and Tckoah ; and in accordance with this is the 
mention of the name among the ten cities which the 
Sept, insert in the text of Josh, xv, GO, “Thccoe and 
Ephratha, w hich is Betlileem, 1 liagor and yEtan (Ai- 
rciv)f etc. Here, according to the statements of the 
Talmudists, were the sources of the water from w hich 
Solomon’s gardens and pleasure-grounds were fed, and 
Bethlehem and the Temple supplied. (See Lightfoot, 
on John v.) Hence we may perhaps infer that the site 
was identical with that of Solomon's Pools at El-Bu- 
ruk, near Bethlehem (see Schwarz, Palest, p. 2G8). See 
Jerusalem; Water. Josephus {Ant. viii, 7,3) places 
it at fifty stadia (in some copies sixty) from Jerusalem 
(southward), and alleges that Solomon was in the hab- 
it of taking a morning drive to this favored spot in bis 
chariot. It is thus probable that this was the site of 
one of Solomon’s houses of pleasure, where he made 
him gardens and orchards, and pools of water (Eccl. 
ii, 5, G). The same name occurs in the lists of Judah’s 
descendants (1 Chron. iv, 3), but probably referring to 
the same place, Bethlehem being mentioned in the fol- 
lowing verse. See Jezkeel 3. Dr. Robinson (Re- 
searches, i, 515 ; ii, 1G8) inclines to find Etam at a place 
about a mile and a half south of Bethlehem, where 
there is a ruined village called Urtas , at the bottom of 
a pleasant valley of the same name. Here there are 
traces of ancient ruins, and also a fountain, sending 
forth a copious supply of fine water, which forms a 
beautiful purling rill along the bottom of the valley. 
This location is in accordance with all the foregoing 
notices, and is adjacent to Solomon's Pools (Thomson, 
Land and Book, ii, 431). Williams (Holy City, ii, 500) 
fully accredits the above Rabbinical account, and also 
states that the old name is perpetuated in a wady 
Etam, which is on the way to Hebron from Jerusalem, 
and that there are still connected with it the largest 
and most luxuriant gardens to be met with in the hiliy 
region of J uda?a. 

Eternal is in general the rendering in the A. V. 
of the Heb. olam' , and the Greek aubv or aiw- 

vioq (both frequently “everlasting,” “ever,” etc.), 


ETERNAL 


314 


ETERNAL LIFE 


besides occasionally of he' don (strictly early, of 

yore, referring to the past, Dent, xxxiii, 27, elsewhere 
“ancient,” “of old,” etc.), and diciog (Pom. i, 20; 
“everlasting,” Jude 0), which is kindred in etymology 
and import with ahbiuog. Both and auov are 

properly represented by “eternal,” inasmuch as they 
usually refer to indefinite time past as well as future. 
The former is from the root E?7’, to hide, and thus 
strictly designates the occult time of the past, cp d. 
“ time out of mind,” or time immemorial (Psa. cxxix, 
24 ; Jer. vi, 1G ; xviii, 15 ; Job xxii, 15 ; Amos ix, 11 ; 
I)eut. xxxii, 7; Prov. xxii, 28; Psa. xxiv, 7; cxliii, 
3; Ezek. xxvi, 20), but not necessarily remote antiq- 
uity (Psa. cxxxix, 24 ; Job xxii, 15 ; Jer. vi, 1G ; xviii, 
15; Dan. ix, 24; and especially Isa. lviii,12; lxi, 4). 
Prospectively it denotes an indeiinite time to come, 
forever, i. e. relatively, e. g. to an individual life 
(I)eut. xv, 17 ; Exod. xxi, G; 1 Sam. xxvii, 12, etc.), 
that of a race (1 Sain, ii, 20; xiii, 12; 2 Sam. vii, 16; 
1 Chron. xvii, 12, etc.), or of the present constitution 
of the universe (Eccles. i, 4; Psa. civ, 5; lxxviii, G9, 
etc.); or absolutely (Gen. xvii, 7 ; xvii, 8; Exod. xii, 
14 ; Jer. li, 39; Eccles. xii, 5, etc.). Vet that the na- 
ture of the subject is to apply the only limitation is 
shown by the fact that while the term is used of God 
in the widest sense, both of the past and future (Gen. 
xxi, 33; Isa. xl, 28; Dan. xii, 7), it is also employed 
hyperbolieally or poetically of a “good long period” 
(Isa. xxx, 14, 15), especially in salutations and invoca- 
tions (1 Kings i, 31 ; Neh. ii, 3). In all these significa- 
tions and applications it is often used in the plural 
(S^^blS*), whether past (Isa. li, 9; Dan. ix, 24; Ec- 
cles. 5, 10) or future (Psa. lxi, 5; lxxvii, G, etc.), and 
this sometimes in a reduplicated form, like “ages of 
ages” ( aidn’tc ). Peculiar is the Rabbinical usage 
(Buxtorf, Lex. Taltn . col. 1G20) for the wort l (so Greek 
ailin'), but only in Eccles. iii, 11. — Gesenins's and 
Fiirst’s Ileb. Lex . s. v. ; Ilommel, De vi vocis nbir 
(Wittemb. 1795). 

The Greek term aim* remarkably corresponds to 
the Hebrew ‘ZOVJ in nearly all these senses, and is its 
usual rendering in ’the Sept. It is derived from dto, 
dim, to breathe , or directly from the adverb ail (orig- 
inally it hi), always (itself an old dative from an obso- 
lete noun o/’fof or «iW = Lat. avion , probably derived 
from do. j, and the same in root with the English ever, 
and also, perhaps, aye), with the locative termination 
-w appended to the root. The adjective aimviog, with 
which we are here more directly concerned, follows 
most of the shades of meaning and appropriations of 
the primitive. Its general import is enduring, perpetu- 
al. In the N. T. it is spoken of the past in a restricted 
manner, in the sense of ancient or primeval (Pom. xvi, 
25; 2 Kim. i, 9; Titus i, 2); or of the past and future 
absolutely (Pom. xvi, 2G; lleb. ix, 14); elsewhere of 
the future, in an unlimited sense, endless (2 Gor. iv, 18 ; 
v, 1 ; Luke xvi, 9 ; Ileb. xiii, 20 ; ix, 12 ; Rev. xiv, G ; 
1 Tim. vi, 1G ; Philem. 15), as of the prospect of Christ’s 
kingdom (2 IVt. i, 11), hut especially of the happy fu- 
ture of the saints in heaven (particularly in the phrase 
“life everlasting,” Matt, xix, 1G, 29; xxv, 4G, and 
often), or the miserable fate of the wicked in hell (e. g. 
as punishment, Matt, xxv, 4G; condemnation, Mark 
iii, 29; judgment, Ileb. vi, 2; destruction, 2 Thess. i, 
9, or fire, Matt, xviii, 8; xxv, 41; Jude 7). — Pobin- 
son, Lex. of the X. T. s. v. ; Leavitt, in the Christian 
Month. Sped, ix, G17 ; Goodwin, in the Chris. Exam - 
inrr, ix, 20; x, 34, 1GG; xii, 97. 1G9; Stuart, in the 
Spirit of the Pilgrims, ii, 405; Creuier, Wvrterbuch d. 
N. T. ( irdcitiit , p. 4G. 

Eternal Life (Zonj aiunnac). I. PibVcul Usage 
of the. Terms. — 1. In the O. T. we find this expression 
occurring only in Dan. xii, 2 : Some shall awaken 
Sept. dg Z,u)}]v aiuviov, the others 


! For the first indication on this point, Lev. xviii, 5 ; 

I Ezek. xx, 11 ; xviii, 21 ; llabak. ii, 4 (comp. Gal. iii, 
11 , 12); Psa. xxxiv, 13 (comp. 1 Pet. iii, 10) are to be 
referred to. 

2. In the N. T. it is of frequent occurrence. In the 
first three evangelists we find con} ahoviog (eternal 
life), or sometimes only Zen) (life), represented as the 
object and destiny of man, e. g. Matt, vii, 14 ; xviii, 
8, 9; Luke x, 28; comp. ver. 25, and xviii, 18. The 
resurrection of the dead precedes it (Puke xiv, 14). 
Tt therefore comprises the whole future of the disci- 
ple of Christ, his full reward ; and the idea is thus 
eounected with that of felicity (fiioSug in toic, ovoa- 
voic, reward in heaven , Matt, v, 12; reception into the 
aliuviai a\i]vai, everlasting habitations , Luke xvi, 9). 
In Matt, xix, 29; xxv, 4G, we find it opposed to /co- 
Xcwtg ahoviog ( eternal punishment). Paul considers 
the Ziot) ahoviog as the supreme reward of well-doing 
(Pom. ii, 7 ; 1 Tim. vi, 12, 19), the result of continually 
walking in the holiness secured to us by Christ ; the 
riXog (Pom. vi, 22), the reward (Gal. vi, 8), as also 
the object of our faith (1 Tim. i, 1G), and of saving 
grace (Pom. v, 21), and consequently also the object 
of our hopes (Tit. i, 2; iii, 7 ; comp. Jude 21). It 
appears synonymous with the tirayyt\ia Zioijg ri)g 
fif\\ovarjg (promise of the life to come) (1 Tim. iv, 8), 
the receiving of the incorruptible crown of righteous- 
ness (1 Cor. ix. 25 ; 2 Tim. iv, 8), the preservation unto 
the heavenly kingdom (2 Tim. iv, 18). By Peter it 
is described as the KXijporopia , which consists in the 
moviola revealed as c dt«, and retained in 

heaven (1 Pet. i, 4, 9; v, 1, 10). James considers it as 
the promised crown of life and inheritance of the king- 
] dom (Jas. i, 12; ii, 5). In the epistle to the Hebrews 
it is described as the Sabbath of the people of God (iv, 
9 ; compare xii, 22 sq., etc.). While, however, life ev- 
! erlasting thus belongs to the future, we must not for- 
' get that, according to Paul’s exposition, it appears 
in its essence indissolubly connected with our present 
life. As our relation to God, as altered by sin, can 
but lead to death, so in the restoration of the original 
relation there must necessarily, and, indeed, as an ethi- 
cal religious principle, he Zioi) (life) presented in the 
I cucatoovri], righteousness (Pom. v, 21 ; viii, 10 ; Gal. 
iii, 21) ; so that encuiaovia], in its connection with Ziui) 
(Rom. v, 18, c 'iKauoaig oijg, justification of life), con- 
stitutes the very essence of the aiorppla (salvation) im- 
puted to the subject, even though in the Judaic epis- 
tles of the apostle the Zen) itself is dwelt upon more 
than the fundamental idea of the cucaioovvrj. Christ 
is j] Zen) ijfuov (our life); though yet concealed (Col. 
iii, 3, 4; Phil, i, 21; Gal. ii, 20; Eph. iii, 17; 1 Cor. 
xv, 45), he is found in us (Gal. iv, 19); we have put 
him on, and become parts of his body (Eph. v, SO; 
Gal. iii, 27 ; Col. i, 18, etc.). From this it results that 
his life of glory must also become ours, which idea is 
presented to us in various ways (Pom. vi, 8; 2 Tim. 
ii, 11, 12 ; Pom. v, 17, 21 ; viii, 30 ; Eph. ii, 5, 6). The 
Spirit gives also the 7 rvtvfta Zonjg (Spirit of life), as 
the clement of new life (Pom. viii, 2 ; comp. 2 Cor. iii, 
17), the foundation of that life which overcomes that 
which is mortal (2 Cor. v, 4, 5; Eph. i, 14) ; our mortal 
! body is by it made alive (Pom. viii, 11) ; its results are 
1 peace and life (Pom. viii, G, 10,13). In this respect 
I eternal life is the “gift of God in Jesus Christ our 
Lord” (Pom. vi, 23). As Xoyoc Zonjg (the word of life) 

I (Phil, ii, 1G), Christ has destroyed death, and brought 
life and immortalitv to light through the Gospel (2 
Tim. i, 10). 

Aside from this evident connection between eternal 
life and the newness of life of the Christian derived 
1 from Christ (Pom. vi, 4), the Zon) ahoviog (eternal life) 

1 is still always considered in Paul’s writings as pos- 
terior to the casting off of the mortal body, and the ex- 
change of the corruptible for the incorruptible. The 
consequences of these premises in their full develop- 
ment are first presented to us, however, in the epistles 


ETERNAL LIFE 


315 


ETERNAL LIFE 


t>f John. Here we find the most important principle 
for the subjective aspect of Christianity : 6 7 rtorf mov 
tig tov viov tyfct aiunnov (he that believeth on 

the Son hath eternal life) (John iii, 36; iii, 15, 1 G ; v, 
24 ; vi, 47, 53-58 ; x, 28 ; xvii, 2 , 3 ; xx, 31 ; 1 John v, 
12, 13). Having passed from death unto life, death has 
no longer dominion over him (John v, 24), and he is 
free from the law and from the anger of God ; lie be- 
comes partaker of the fulness of salvation. . On the 
contrary, those who do not hearken to the Son have 
not life, neither shall they see it, but the anger of God 
abides with them. Thus, while Paul distinguishes be- 
tween the actual state of grace, with its accompanying 
hope on the one hand, and the future attainment of the 
object of our hope, John unites these in his conception 
of eternal life, and thus uses the expressions Zon) auo- 
viog (eternal life) and (life), which stand in the 
relation of form and contents, indifferently with or 
without the article (John iii, 36 ; v, 24 ; 1 John iii, 14, 
15 ; v, 11, 12, 13, etc.). The life of the faithful on this 
earth is inseparably connected with their eternal life, 
from the fact of their absolute deliverance from the 
sentence of death resulting from a state of estrange- 
ment from God (John vi, 53). It is a result of the 
birth of the Spirit (John iii ; comp, v, 21 ; 1 John i, 5 ; 
John iii, 36). See also John iv, 14 ; v, 28 ; vi, 40 ; 
xvii, 24 ; 1 John iii, 2. 

This eternal life, with its divine course and its vic- 
torious power, finds its ground in the communion of 
life with Christ, which is the result of faith. For 
while God as the absolute being is He whose life is u of 
himself” (John vi, 57), and is Himself “eternal life” 
(1 John v, 20), the source of all life, yet the communi- 
cation of life to the world, i. e. to mankind, has from 
the beginning, even before time began (John viii, 56), 
been irrevocably vested in the Son. lie is the Aoyoe 
(w T ord) as well in his relation to God as in his relation 
to the world. He has received the fulness of divine 
life from the Father in such a manner that it belongs 
to him as thoroughly his (John v, 26 ; 1 John v, II). 
Now r , inasmuch as the Logos became flesh, the eternal 
life, which was of God, became manifested in him. It 
is, in the next place, the revealed light of life. Christ, 
in his relation to the world, is therefore as well o Adyot; 
rijg Zojijg as t) Z<oi] (1 John i, 1 , 2 ; John i, 3, 4 ; vi, 53 
sq. ; xiv, 6 ); in one w ord, the really sole source of life, 
the universal principle of life in the world, both spir- 
itual and material (John v, 21-29; x, 9, 28; xi, 25; 
xiv, 19 ; vi, 27, 35, 39, 63 ; vii, 38, 39). From this it is 
easily seen how r eternal life is designated in the N. T. as 
the command of the Father, the know ledge of God and 
of Christ, or also as the commandment of Christ (John 
xii, 50; comp, viii, 51 ; xvii, 3; 1 John ii, 25; iii, 14, 
15; comp. John xii, 25). 

Confirmations of this view, by w r hieh the Zmi) comes 
to occupy the first place in the plan of salvation in 
Christ, are to be found in numerous passages of the 
N. T. Christ is represented as the ever-living (Rev. 

1, 18), the ctpx))ybg rijg Ziofjg (Acts iii, 15), the XlSog 
£wn, by virtue of whom those who follow r him become 
A iSroi Zwi'Ttg, living stones (1 Pet. ii, 4, 5). In 1 Pet. 
iii, 7 (comp, iv, 6 ) we read of a KXypovojuia \apiTog 
Zioijg , and in the apocalyptic description of the heav- 
enly Jerusalem we still read of a TiOTagog frWoc 
Zojijg (river of the w ater of life) w’liich flows from the 
throne of God and of the Lamb, as also of a %v\ov Ztopg 
(tree of life) by the shores of the stream (Rev. xxii, 1, 

2 , 1 1, 19 ; ii, 7). See the different interpretations given 
to John’s Zuj)} altoviog in Kaenffer, De bill. £. d. notlone. 
P. 2*2. 

IL History of the Doctrine . — 1 . The Talmudists 
speak only of the KSFt t&iir, in which all Israelites 
have part, but nowhere of an eternal life; while the 
Targumists make use of the expression, for instance, 
in Lev. xviii, 5. 

2 . It was long before even the Christian Church 


was able to understand the full scope of the idea, tn 
early times the alioviog (eternal life) was repre- 
sented only as future happiness, to be full}’' accom- 
plished only after the resurrection and the judgment 
of the w orld. Irenaeus {adv. liter . i, c. 10) states what 
the per universum orbem usque ad flues tome semi- 
nata ecclesia (the Church dispersed throughout the 
w hole world, even to the ends of the earth) believes on 
this point, tbe rediturum — ut justis et sanctis — in- 
corruptibilem statum largiatur et vitam oeternam tri- 
buat (coming of Christ to confer eternal life upon the 
righteous and holy). So also Tertullian {Be priescr . 
llaret. c. xiii). Augustine ( Be Sp. ct Lit. c. xxiv): 
“ Cum venerit, quod perfectum est, tunc erit vita aeter- 
na; it is totum praemium, cujus promissione gaudo- 
mus” (that is, the complete reward, in the promise of 
which we joy) ( Be morib. eccl. caih. p. 25 ; Be Trin . 
i, 13; Enchir. § 29, etc. Basil ( Knurr . Pscthn xiv ) 
connects it with the eternal membership of heaven. 
The Apostles’ Creed and the Athanasian Creed end the 
enumeration of their articles of faith with the dogma 
concerning eternal life as emanating from God, the ab- 
solute cause, and represent it as the final object of all 
ordained development {Const. Apost. vii, 41). John 
of Damascus, at the end of his Orthod.fid ., where he 
treats of the resurrection, says expressly, aiwviog Zioi) 
to ctTtXtvraTov tov giXXovTog aiwvoc cbyAot' olde ytep 
fitTti tj)v dvdaramv igdpaig tcai w^iv 6 xpdi'og dpiS- 
ptftijtJtTac itJTi A pctXXov pla i)fdpa avtoTrtpog , tov 
ijXlov Tijg liKatotrinpg Toig biKaiotg tpaidpibg hrtXdp- 
7 ro vrog. Even when the fathers speak of Christ as 
the %ioi) they refer almost exclusively to the impart- 
ing of future blessedness; Cyril of Alexandria and 
Ammonius {Catena on John xiv , G)‘, Gregory Nazian- 
zenus {Orat. 10 , c. Eunom.). At all events, they call 
the assurance of life resting on communion w ith Christ 
merely ■>) Kvpiov 4 any, but not. Z 101 ) aldviog. Yet 
occasionally they touch upon nearly all the questions 
connected with that point, w ithout, however, arriving 
at any definite system of doctrine. I 11 their descrip- 
tion of the state of the blessed they mention as the 
most important points its endless duration, freedom 
from evil, and absolute satisfaction. The latter was 
: sometimes defined as complete knowledge, perfect 
moral liberty, inner and outer peace, or immediate in- 
tercourse with God and the saints, together with per- 
sonal reunion with those who have preceded us ; or, 
again, as the contemplation of God, as the fulfilment 
1 of all human desire, or as several of these different 
points together. The finis desideriorvm nostrorum is 
1 God himself, nui sine fine iddebitvr, sine fasti dio ama - 
bitur, sire fatigaiione laudabitur (Justin, Apol. i, 8 ; Or- 
igen , Deprive. iii, 318, 321 ; Cyprian, Be mortal. [1726], 
p. 166 ; Greg. Naz. Orat. xvi, 9; viii, 23 ; Greg. Nyss. 
Orat. fun. de Placilla ct Orat. de Ahriuis; Basil, Horn. 
vi in llcxtum. et Horn, in Psa. cxiv; August. Be civ. 
Dei , xxii, 29, 30 ; Chrysost. Horn, xiv in Ep. ad Pom. ; 
Ambros. in Gal. vi ; Cassiodor. Be anima , c. xii). The 
idea of different degrees of felicity in future life, as 
differences of reward-, was widely prevalent, "without, 
how ever, making it lose its character as gratia pro 
gratia (grace for grace) (August. Tract, xiii in John ; 
Theodoret on Rom. vi, 23, anti in. Canticnm i). Accord- 
ing to the ctZtct (desert) of every one, there are ttoAA at 
dZiogtciTtov cia<popal 7 jSctSgoi ttoXXoi and /tirpa (Orig. 
i, 1 , 2, 11 ; Greg. Naz. Orat. xxvii, 8 ; xiv, 5 ; xix, 7 ; 
xxxii, 33 ; Basil in Eunom. i, 3 ; August. Be Civ. Dei , 
xxii, 30, 2; Hieron. ad. Jov. 2). The fathers say also 
very positively that the joys of heaven cannot lie de- 
scribed in words, and human imagination can o’nly form 
an approximative idea of them. So Greg. Nvss. {Orat. 
Catech. c. xl). “Bona vita? aetornre tarn multa sunt ut 
numerum, tarn magna lit mensuram, tain pretiosa ut 
nestimationem omnem excedant” (August. Be tripl. ha- 
bit. c. i, Conf. Orth.'). 

(3.) The divines of the Middle Ages brought to 
light no new truths on this point, but assembled those 


ETERNAL LIFE 


316 


ETERNAL LIFE 


already recognised into a system. Tliev also estab- 
lished a doctrinal distinction between vita aterna (eter- 
nal life) and beatitudo (happiness), defining them both. 
Anselm ( De simU. c. xlvii) counts fourteen partes beati- 
tudinis , seven of which relate to the glorifying of the 
bodv, and seven to the soul. The occupations of the 
saints are generally connected also with the number 
seven. Yet it was more customar}' to divide the dif- 
ferent aspects of that state— of course subject to all 
kinds of occasional modifications — into twelve parts 
(Bonaventnra, Diata salut. x, c. iv ; Peter d’Ailly, 
Epee. co mid. iii, c. xi; Johan, de Turre creni. Tract. 
xxxvi inreg.): “Duodecim considerationes vitte aetcr- 
n;e : 1. Ilia sola est vita vera; 2. Possidetur sanitas 
sine qnaeunqiie infirmitate, molestia aut passione; 3. 
Pulchritudo sine quacunque deformitate ; 4. Copia om- 
nium bonornm ; 5. Satietas et adimpletio omnium de- 
sideriorum sine quocunque defeetu; 6. Securitas et 
pacis tranquillitas sine timore quocunque ; 7. Yisio 
beata clarissima et jucundissima divinitatis; 8. Delec- 
tatio summa; 9. Sapientia et plenissima cognitio abs- 
que ignorantia (an especially gratifying prospect for 
the scholastics ; so that, for instance, Dans Scotus 
wonders whether the saints knew the real essence of 
things); 10. In ilia viventes surnmo ibi honore et glo- 
ria subliinantur ; 11. Est in ea jucunditas inetfabilis ; 
12. Laus interminabilis.” (Tlie twelve points are: 
1. Eternal life is the only true life; 2. It has health 
without infirmity or passion ; 3. Beauty without dis- 
figurement ; 4. All blessings in abundance; 5. Satis- 
faction of all desires; 6. Peace and tranquillity with- 
out fears; 7. Beatific vision of the Divinity; 8. Su- 
preme delight ; 9. Wisdom and perception without ig- 
norance; 10. The highest honor and glory ; 11. Ineffable 
sweetness ; 12. Endless praise.) Thomas Aquinas rec- 
ognised, besides, the general and common beatitud >, 
especial d.Aes, gifts. Thus, aside from the corona aurea , 
lie reserves a special aureola to the martyrs and saints, 
and also to monks and nuns, as a sort of suparadded 
reward. According to him, the organ of transmission 
of the blessings of future life is knowledge ; accordin g 
t > Scotus, the will. After the times of Anselm, an 1 
among the scholastics and mystics, we find very at- 
tractive descriptions of the blessed state, full of ele- 
vated ideas. u Praemium est,” says Bernard (De med- 
itat. c. iv), u videre Deum, vivere cum Deo, esse cum 
Deo, esse in Deo, qui erit omnia in omnibus ; habere 
Deum, qui est sunimum bonnm; et nbi est summmn 
bonum, ibi summa felicitas.” (The reward is, to see 
God, to dwell with God, to exist with God and in God, 
who shall be All in All; to possess God, who is the 
highest Good; and where the highest Good is, there 
is perfect bliss.) 

(4.) The Roman Catholic Church has simply gath- 
ered the teachings of the scholastics into a whole on 
this point, and has established them in a more fixed 
and dogmatic manner, as is shown in the exposition 
given in the Roman Catechism. According to it, the 
vita aterna (eternal life), by which believers are, af- 
ter their resurrection, to attain the perfection after 
which they aim, is non magis perpetuitas vitae , quam 
in perpetuitate beatitwlo , qu e bea'orum desklerium ex- 
pleat (not only perpetuity of life, hut also bliss in 
that perpetuity, satisfying all the desires of the bless- 
ed). It is evident, moreover, that the nature of the 
blessedness of the saints cannot be appreciated by our 
minds in any but an empirical, not an absolute manner. 
According to the scholastics, the eternal blessings can 
be divided into, 1. Essential ; the contemplation of God 
in his nature and substance, and the consequent par- 
ticipation in his essence, which is identical with his 
possession. 2. Accessory; glory, honor, perfect peace, 
etc. They are expressly represented as incentives to 
lead a virtuous life. On their connection with good 
works in the Romanist system, see Couilcil of Trent 
(Sess. y i, c. xxvi). 

(5.) With the exception of the part relating to pur- 


gatory, the doctrine of the elder Protestantism on this 
subject does not essentially differ from that of the 
Romish Church. The symbolical books of the evan- 
gelical Church afford us but little information on this 
point. In general, the vita aterna continued to be 
considered as salutis nostra complementum , spei met /, 
finis fidei (the goal of hope, the end of faith). By it 
was understood the position of the just, partly after 
this life in general, and partly after the resurrection. 
(Comp. Augsburg Conf. art. 17; Apol. iv, 212; Cat. 
Min. ii, 3 ; Formida Concordia , G33, 723 ; Conf. Belg. 
art. 07 ; Luther, lPorfcs, i, 360, 887, 997 ; xi, 1487 ; Me- 
lancthon, loci , 1553, 75; Calvin, Institutes , iii, 9, 1.) 
Still the effects of a deeper study of Scripture (a re- 
sult of the Reformation) becamfe manifest in various 
ways, and especially in the idea of a beginning of 
eternal life in the heart of the believer, which was 
recognised as connected with regeneration (Apol. Com 
fessionis , iv, 140, 148, 99, 187, 209, 210, 285, mostly in 
the German text; Buddeus, 445, 503; Zwingli, Exp. fid. 
12; P. Martyr, Loci , 442; Cat. Pal. 58; Alting, Expl. 
Catech. 280 ; Alsted, 759 ; Perkins, Cat. 778 ; Confessio 
Bohem. Niem. 846). Compare also Jansenius, Comm. 
Cone . Ev. c. 136, 976. Yet this truly evangelical view 
was not steadily persisted in, but, on the contrary, it 
was soon asserted again that the expression “eternal 
life” occurred only in Scripture to designate the re- 
ward of Christian fidelity. Nevertheless, the funda- 
mental points of the idea of eternal life remained in 
the doctrine of a mystical union with Christ, and in 
the doctrine concerning the Eucharist. Many draw a 
distinction between the vita spirituulis (spiritual life), 
of which Christ is the alimentum (food), and the vita 
aterna (eternal life). The former was also designated 
as vita gratia (the life of grace), and the latter as vita 
gloria (the life of glorv). There were three degrees 
of eternal life recognised: 1, initialis, in this world; 
2, partialis, after the death of the individual ; 3, per- 
fectionalis, after the last judgment. (So Pearson, On 
the Creed , Oxford, 1820, i, 598.) Gerhard’s definition 
(Cotta, 20, 533) is an excellent exposition of the Pro- 
testant scholastic views on this subject: “Vita neterna 
est felicissimus ac beatissimus ille status, quo Dens ex 
immensa misericordia (causa efficiens principalis) prop- 
ter Christum mediatorem (causa efficiens meritoria) 
perseverante fide (causa instrnmentalis) adprehensum 
pios post hanc vitam beabit, nt primum quidem animre 
eorum a eorporibus separate, postmodum vero enedem 
in die resurrectionis glorificatis eorporibus reuuitie, 
ab omnibus miseriis, doloribus et nnilis liberatse, cum 
Christo, angelis sanctis et omnibus electis in sempiter- 
na lretitia, gloria et felicitate vivant, perfecta Dei cog- 
nitione, perfecta sanctitate et jnstitia ornatce Deum a 
facie ad faciem sine fine videant, sine fastidio ament ac 
sine defatigatione glorificent.” The early Protestant 
theologians speak of the felicity of the future life as 
incomprehensible and ineffable (Con f. Belg. 87; Bohem. 
in Niem. 846; Calvin, 3, 15, 10 ; Gerhard, 20, 340). Its 
blessings are partly privative, partly positive : the 
meeting again and recognition of Christians was con- 
sidered one of them (Zwingli In exp. fid. 12); this is 
called a positive blessing. That individual blessedness 
will not be disturbed by the knowledge of the damna- 
tion of others is called a privative blessing. In oppo- 
sition to Rome, the influence of personal merit on the 
future state was denied by these theologians ; but some 
of them, while admitting that blessedness is essential- 
ly the same for all, hold to several degrees of blessed- 
ness. A number of other questions as to the language 
of t ho blessed, the manner of the contemplation of 
God, if he shall be praised in word, etc., are generally 
treated by the ancient theologians after the example 
of Calvin, Inst. 3, 25, 6, as irrelevant, and of no relig- 
ious importance. In later times they have been dis- 
cussed anew. 

7. Later Viems. — The evangelical Protestant church- 
es probably would all agree that eternal life com- 


ETERNAL LIFE 


317 


ETHAN 


mences m Christian experience in this world. So | 
Weslev ( Sermons , ii, ISO) : “ This is the testimony, 
that Gou hath given us eternal life, and this life is in 
his Son. He that hath the Son hath life [the eternal 
life here spoken of] ; and he that hath not the Son 1 
hath not life.” As if he had said, This is the sum of 
the testimony which God hath testified of his Son, that 
God hath given us not only a title to, but the real be- 
ginning of eternal life ; and this life is purchased by, 
and treasured up in his Son, who has all the springs 
and the fulness of it in himself, to communicate to his 
body, the Church. This eternal life, then, commences 
when it pleases the Father to reveal his Son in our 
hearts ; when we first know Christ, being enabled to 
“call him Lord by the Holy Ghost;” when we can 
testify, our conscience bearing us witness in the Holy 
Ghost, “The life which I now live I live by faith in 
the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for 
me.” And then it is that happiness begins — happi- 
ness real, solid, substantial. Theu it is that heaven is I 
opened in the soul, that the proper heavenly state com- 1 
mences, while the love of God, as loving us, is shed 
abroad in the heart, instantly producing love to ail I 
mankind ; general pure benevolence, together with its J 
genuine fruits, lowliness, meekness, patience, content- 
edness in every state; an entire, clear, full acquiescence 
in the whole will of God, enabling us to “rejoice ever- 
more, and in everything to give thanks.” 

As to the nature of the blessedness of the future 
life, “the sum of what we are taught by reason and 
Scripture on this point may be comprehended under 
the three following particulars : («) We shall here- 
after be entirely freed from the sufferings of this life ; 

( b ) Our future blessedness will be a continuation of 
the happiness of this life ; (c) But it will also be in- 
creased by the addition of many new joys, which stand 
in no natural or necessary connection with our preced- 
ing condition in this life. But, for want of accurate 
knowledge of the state of things in the future world, 
we can say nothing definite and certain as to the na- 
ture of these positive rewards. In the doctrine of the 
New Testament, however, positive rewards are consid- 
ered most obviously as belonging to our future felici- 
ty, and as constituting a principal part of it. For it 
always represents the joys of heaven as resulting 
strictly from the favor of God , and as being undesenecl 
by those to whom they are given. Hence there must 
be something more added to the natural good conse- 
quences of our actions, something which cannot be 
considered as the neeessary and natural consequences 
of the good actions w r e may have before performed. 
Some theologians have supposed that the saints in 
heaven may be taught by immediate divine revelations 
(lumen gloried) ; especially those who may enter the 
abodes of the blessed without knowledge, or with only 
a small measure of it ; e. g. children, and others who 
have died in ignorance for which they themselves I 
were not to blame. On this subject nothing is deli- | 
nitelv taught in the Scriptures; but both Scripture 
and reason warrant us in believing that provision will ! 
be made for all such persons in the future world, j 
A principal part of our future happiness will consist, 
according to the Christian doctrine, in the enlarge- j 
nient and correcting of our knowledge respecting God, ! 
his nature, attributes, and works, and in the salutary I 
application of this knowledge to our own moral bene- 
fit, to the increase of our faith, love, and obedience. 
There has been some controversy among theologians 
with regard to the vision of God ( visio Dei intuition, or 
sensitira , or beatifica , or comprelienswa) ; but Christ is 
always represented as one who will be personally visi- 
ble by us, and whose personal, familiar intercourse 
and guidance we shall enjoy. And herein Christ him- ( 
self places a chief part of the joy of the saints (John 
xiv, xvii, etc.). And so the apostles often describe j 
the blessedness of the pious by the phrase being with j 
Christ To his guidance has God intrusted the human i 


race in heaven and on earth. And Paul says (2 Cor. 

iv, 6) we see ‘the brightness of the divine glory in 
the face of Christ;’ he is ‘the visible representative 
of the invisible God’ (Colos. i, 15). Paul says ex- 
pressly (1 Thess. iv, 17) that we shall be with Christ, 
in company with our friends who died before us (ay a 
ovv avTo'ie;'); and this presupposes that we shall recog- 
nise them, and have intercourse with them, as with 
Christ himself. Paul advises that Christians should 
comfort themselves under the loss of their friends by 
considering that they are at home with the Lord, and 
that they shall be again united together” (Knapp, 
Chist. Theology , sec. clx, p. 190-494). See also Cotta, 
Hist. Dogm. de Vita erterna ; Cotta, Theses Thud, de Vita 
externa (Tubing. 1758); Storr, Opuscida Academiea , ii, 
75 ; Wesley, Sermons , ii, 180 sq. ; Baxter, Saints' Rest; 
Isaac Taylor, Thysical Theory of another Life ; Navi lie, 
Vie Eternette (1865); Herzog, ReaLEneyklop. viii, 254. 
(from which this article is in part a translation); Mar- 
tensen, Christian Dogmatics , § 283-290. See Immor- 
tality ; IiESURRECTlON ; HEAVEN. 

Eternity of God. See God. 

E'tkam (Heb. Ethani , CTX, supposed by Jablon- 
sky [(fuse. ed. te Water, ii, 157] to be i. q. Coptic 
atiom , i. e. “boundary of the sea;” Sept. ’03 hop, but 
omits in Num. xxxiii, 8 ; Yulg. Etham), the third sta- 
tion of the Israelites when they left Egypt ; a place 
described as lying “in the edge of the wilderness,” 
where they encamped after the journey from Succoth 
(Exod. xiii, 20; Num. xxxiii, (J). This description, and 
the route pursued by them, seem to fix upon some spot 
on the east of Egypt, north of the Bed Sea, near the 
i desert tract stretching thence along the whole east- 
ern shore as far as Marah, to which the same name, 

' “desert of Etham,” is therefore naturally applied in 
the text (Num. xxxiii, 8). The precise locality of 
Etham has been a matter of dispute, according to the 
various theories of the passage across the sea. No 
spot more likely has been indicated than a point in the 
valley of the hitter lakes opposite the foot of wady Abu- 
Zeid, in the direct route around the point of the sea, 
but from which there is a passage sharply deflecting, 
up wady Em-shcsh, around Jebel Attaka, which the 
Israelites were at this point commanded to take. See 
Exode; Desert. The sense of the passage Num. 
xxxiii, 6 8, is evidently this : At the end of the sec- 
ond day they had already arrived at the holders of the 
Arabian desert, at Etham, from which the tract of 
country lying next to Egypt receives the name, desert 
of Etham ; but, instead of advancing directly into the 
desert, they turned down again farther into Egypt, to 
the Arabian Gulf. Afterwards, instead of going round 
the sea, they proceeded through it into the desert of 
Etham. See Siiur. Schwarz says ( Palest . p. 211) 
that the part of the desert north of the Bed Sea, near 
Suez, is still called Ethia , but this lacks confirmation. 

E'thail (Heb. Eythan' , perpetuity, as often), 

the name of three men. 

1. (Sept. Ar’3rb', v. r. rmSrav and AiSctpi) One of 
four persons (“Ethan the Ezradiite, and Ileman, and 
Chalcol, and Dnrda, the sons of Mahol”) who were so 
renowned for their sagacit} r that it is mentioned to the 
honor of Solomon that his wisdom excelled theirs (1 
Kings iv, 31 [Heb. v, 11]), Ethan being distinguished 
as “the Ezrahite” from the others, who are called 
“ sons of Mahol ;” unless, indeed, this word Mahol (q. 

v. ) be taken, not as a proper name, but appellatively 
for “sons of music, dancing,” etc., in which case it 
would apply to Ethan as well as to the others. This 
interpretation is strengthened by our finding the other 
names associated with that of Ethan in 1 Chron. ii, 6, 
as “sons of Zerah,” i. e. of Ezra, the same as Ezrahites, 
or descendants of the son of Judah. See Ezrahite. 
With this agrees the Jewish chronology, which counts 
them as prophets during the sojourn in Egypt (Seder 


ETIIAN LU 


318 


ETHER 


Otam Rabbi, p. 52), although the Jews have also a tra- 
dition confounding Ethan with Abraham, Homan with 
Moses, and Chalcol with Joseph (Jerome, Comment, on 
Kings, in loc.). In 1 Chron. ii,S, Ethan’s “sons” are 
mentioned, but only one name is given, that of Azariah. 
B.C. post 185G. In the title to the 89th Psalm an 
‘‘Ethan the Ezrahite” is named as the author; but 
there seems to be some confusion here in the latter 
epithet. 8ec No. 3 below. 

2. (Sept. A i3d/i v. r. Ot\oi.) Son of Zimmah and 
father of Adaiah, in the ancestry of the Levitc Asaph 
(1 Chron. vi, 42 [27]). B.C. oir. 1585. In ver. 21 lie 
seems to be called Joaii, the father of Iddo. 

3. (Sept. A tSdv v. r. A t’3«ju.) A Levite, son of 

Kushi or Kushaiah, of the family of Merari ; appointed 
one of the leaders of the Temple music by David (as 
singer, 1 Chron. vi, 44 [29], or player on cymbals, xv, 
17, 19). P*.C. 1014. In the latter passages he is asso- 

ciated with Heman and Asaph, the heads of two other 
families of Levites ; and inasmuch as in other passages 
of these books (I Chron. xxv, 1, G) the names are 
given as Asaph, Heman, and Jedutiiun, it has been 
conjectured that this last and Ethan w f ere identical. 
There is at least great probability that Ethan the sing- 
er was the same person as Ethan the Ezrathite (comp. 
No. 1 above), whose name stands at the head of Psa. 
lxxxix, for it is a very unlikely coincidence that there 
should be two persons named Heman and Etlmn so 
closely connected in two different tribes and walks of 
life. The difficulry is even greater in the case of He- 
man (q. v.), wln>, i i the title to Psalm Ixxxviii, is like- 
wise expressly called an Ezrahite, and yet identified in 
its authorship with the sons of Korah. Hengstenberg 
supposes (Comment, on Psalms, Clark's ed. iii, 89) that 
both Heman and Ethan, although descendants of Ju- 
dah, were adopted into the ranks of the Levites ; but 
this will not meet the above genealogy of this Ethan, 
who is moreover classed with the Merarites, and not 
with the Ivorahites. Comp. Heman, and sec Ezra- 
hite. 

Etll'anim (Heb. Eythanhn , perennial 

streams; Sept. ’A kravtv), another name for the month 
Tisri (q. v.) ; so called from the fulness of the brooks 
at that time of the year, being swelled with the au- 
tumnal rains (1 Kings viii, 2). See Calendar. 

Eth'baal (Heb. Ethba'dl , with Baal , i. e. 

enjoying his favor and help; Sept. E3y8drt\), a king 
of Sidon, father of the infamous Jezebel, the wife of 
Allah (1 Kings xvi, 31). According to Josephus (.IhL 
viii, 13, 1 and 2; Apion, i, 18), Ethbaal is called Itho- 
bahis (T.S’o/drtXoc or E IQibfiaXoc, i. e. 5VZ'"T'X = Baal 
with him . ) by Menander, who also says that he was a 
priest of Astarte, and, having put the king Plieles to 
death, assumed the sceptre of Tyre and Sidon. lived 
sixty-eight years, and reigned thirty-two (comp. Theo- 
phil. . 1 utol. iii, p. 132). As fifty years elapsed between 
the deaths of Hiram and Pheles, the date of Ethbaal’s 
reign may lie given as about li.C. 940 908. The wor- 
ship of liaal was no doubt closely allied to that of As- 
tartc, and it is even possible that a priest of Astarte 
might have been dedicated also to the service of liaal, 
and borne his name. We here see the reason why Jez- 
ebel, the daughter of a priest of Astarte. was so zeal- 
ous a promoter of idolatry, the taint of which, with its 
attend mt tyranny, eventually extended to the throne 
of Judah in the person of Athaliah ; and as, twenty- 
one years after the death of Ethbaal, his granddaugh- 
ter Dido built Carthage, and founded that celebrated 
commonwealth (Josephus, as above), we may judge 
what sort of a spirit animated the females of this royal 
family. See Aiiais. Another Phoenician king of the 
same name (T3o/Li\oc or E i*3w/$«\oe) appears as a 
contemporary of Nebuchadnezzar (Josephus, Ant. x. 
11, 1 ; A pion, i, 21; Eusebius, Chron. Armen, i, 74). 
Sec Phoenicia. 


Ethelbert, king of Kent, was born A.D. 545 or 
552, and succeeded to the throne about A.D. 5G0 (?). 
About A.D. 590 he was acknowledged as Bra?twalda 
(president of the Heptarchy). In 570 he married Rer- 
tha, a Christian, and daughter of Charibert, a Frank- 
ish king. It had been agreed before her marriage that 
she should be allowed to enjoy her own religion. The 
most important event of his reign was the introduction 
of Christianity into his kingdom by Augustine, who 
landed in Kent in 59G. See Augustine (vol. i, p. 544). 
In 597 the king himself was baptized. He founded the 
bishopric of Rochester, and, with his nephew Sebert, 

, king of Essex, erected the church of St. Paul’s in Lon- 
| don. Ethelbert (lied in GIG. — Maelear, Christian Mis - 
j sions during the Middle Ages (18G3), chap, v ; Collier, 
i Ecclesiastical History of Great Britain , i, 15G sq. 

Ethel wold, the principal reformer of monastic 
orders in England, was born in Winchester about 925. 
' From early youth he distinguished himself by liis 
j learning, and obtained the favor of king Athelstan. 
' lie was ordained priest simultaneously with Dunstan, 
j and when the latter became abbot of Glastonbury, 

! about 947, Ethehvold entered his monastery and be- 
; came a companion of his studies. He distinguished 
himself as a poet, grammarian, and theologian. lie is 
| also reported to have been familiar with the mechan- 
, ical arts, and to have constructed two bells. AVhen 
he declared his intention to go to France, in order to 
perfect himself in his studies, king Edred, who wished 
to retain him in England, refused to him permission to 
travel, and appointed him abbot of Abingdon. This 
monastery w r as then in ruins, and was rebuilt bv Ethel- 
wold. In 9G3 king Edgar appointed him bishop of 
Winchester. The great task of his life henceforth 
j was the reorganization of the Anglo-Saxon monas- 
j teries, which were at that time administered by sec- 
ular priests (clerici, canonici, presbytert). The disci- 
pline in the monastery was anything but severe, and 
many of the priests were married. Ethelwold substi- 
I tilted for the secular priests regular monks, and dis- 
played great activity in rebuilding the monasteries 
i that had been destroyed by the Danes, and in repeo- 
pling those that had been abandoned. The monastery 
of Winchester, under his direction, became a celebrated 
school, from which proceeded several distinguished ab- 
I bots and bishops. He died Aug. 1, 984, at Winches- 
ter. The chief work of Ethehvold is an Anglo-Saxon 
translation of the Latin rule of St. Benedict. It has 
never been printed. He also wrote a mathematical 
treatise, still extant in manuscript. — lloefer, Xouv. 
Biogr. Generate , xvi, 598 ; Wright, Blog. Brit. Lit. 435 
sq. (A.J.S.) 

E'tlier (TIeb. id. w r!.‘, abundance ), one of the cit- 
ies in the plain (Shephelah) of Judah (mentioned be- 
tween Li bn ah and Ashan, Josh, xv, 42, Sept. "A^p v. 
r. ’1 3m-), eventually assigned to Simeon (mentioned 
between Remmon and Ashan. Josli. xix, 7, Sept."A3fp 
v. r. Tf3fo). In the parallel list of the towns of Sim- 
eon in 1 Chron. iv, 32, Tociif.n is substituted for 
Ether. In the Onomasticon Eusebius and Jerome men- 
tion it twice (s. v. ’E3A>, Ether; ’If3.=p, Jether — in the 
latter case confounding it with Jattik, a city of priests, 
which contained friends of David during his troubles 
under Saul), and state that it was then a considerable 
place ( KMfu ] ptyltT-if), retaining the. nair«e of Jfthii'a 
, ( lf3tt.od, If3opd), very near Malatha, in the interior 
of the district of Daroma, that is, in the desert country 
below Hebron and to the east of IDcrsheba. At Beit- 
Jibrin Van de Velde heard of a tell Atliar in this neigh- 
borhood, lint could not learn its distance or direction 
(Memoir, p. 311). For the present, we may conjectu- 
rallv place it at Beit- A v.wa, in the vicinity of the asso- 
ciated localities, S. of Reit-Jibrin and W. of Hebron ; 
a ruined village, covering low hills on both sides of 
i the path, and exhibiting foundations of hewn stones, 


ETHERIDGE 


319 


ETHICS 


leading to the inference that it was once an extensive 
town (Robinson, Researches , iii, 10). 

Etheridge, John Wesley, Pli.D., a Methodist 
minister and eminent scholar, was born at Grange- 
woods, Isle of Wight, February 24, 1804, and died at 
Camborne May 24, 1866. llis parents were Methodists, 
and he was brought up with religious care. In 1827 
he entered the ministry of the Wesleyan Methodist 
Church, and was appointed to the Hull Circuit. In 
1838 his health failed, and he became “ supernumer- 
ary. ” In 1846 he was able to return to the itinerant 
ministry, in which service he remained until his death. 
“He was an eminently holy man. Whether in the 
pulpit or in the social circle, he appeared clothed with 
humility, and radiant with Christian benevolence. 
Constrained by the love of Christ, h§ lived only to pro- 
mote the interests of the Church. He was 1 a burn- 
ing and shining light,’ and consumed himself in the 
service of his Lord and Saviour” {Minnies, 1867). 

I)r. Etheridge's devotion to letters, amid the en- 
grossing labors of the Methodist ministry, was very re- 
markable. Early in life he showed extraordinary apt- 
itude for languages, and by continued study he learn- 
ed to read and write Hebrew and Syriac with facility, j 
In the literature of these two languages he became I 
pre-eminent before his death. Ilis published writings I 
include The Syrian Churches , their early History , Lit- 
urgies , and Literature (London, 1816, 12mo : this work 
contains a translation, also, of the four Gospels from 
the I’eschito ): — The Apostolical Acts and Epistles, from \ 
the Peschito , with the remaining Epistles and the R< vela - ! 
tion, after a later Syrian Text (London, 1849, 12mo) : — 
Hone A ramaicce. (London, 1843, 12mo: a useful series 
of Essays on the Shomitic, Aramaic, and Syriac lan- 
guages and literature): — Jemsalem and Tiberias , a | 
Survey of the religious and scholastic Learning cf the I 
Jews, designed as an Introduction to Hebrew Literatim 
(London, 1856, 12mo) : — The Targums of Onlelos and 
Jonathan ben-Uzziel , etc. (London, 1862, 12mo). Re- 
sides these, he published Misericordia, or Contempla- 
tions on the Mercy of God (Lond. 1812 ): — The Life of 
Dr. Adam Clarice (London, 1858; N. Y. I860 ): — The 
Life of Dr. Thomas Coke (Lond. 1860) : — The Life cf 
the Rev. John Fletcher. — Minutes of Conferences (Eng- 
lish) for 1867 ; Christian Examiner , Ixiv, 346. 

Ethics, from g9o c, originally the Ionic form of 
t0o£, in Germ. Sittenlehre , in English moral philosophy, 
though this last phrase sometimes covers the whole 
science of mind. . Ethics are related to law and duty , 
and to virtue and vice. “Aristotle says that gOoc, 
which signifies moral virtue, is derived from Woe, cus- 
tom, since it is by repeated acts that virtue, which is a 
moral habit, is formed” (see Fleming's Vocab. Phil. p. 
171). “Ethics, taken in its widest sense, as including 
the moral sciences or natural jurisprudence, may be 
divided into, 1. Moral philosophy, or the science of 
the relations, rights, and duties by which men are un- 
der obligations towards God, themselves, and their fel- 
low-creatures. 2. The law of nations, or the science 
of those laws by which all nations, as constituting the 
society of the human race, are bound in their mutual 
relations to one another. 3. Public or political law, or 
the science of the relations between the different ranks 
in society. 4. Civil law, or the science of those laws, 
rights, and duties by which individuals in civil society 
are bound — as commercial, criminal, judicial, Roman, 
or modern. 5. History, profane, civil, and political” 
(Peemans, Jntrod. ad Philosoph . p. 96). Ethics, then, 
covers the science of all that is moral, whether it re- 
lates to law or action, to God or the creature, to the in- 
dividual or the state. It goes wherever the ideas of 
right and wrong can enter. 

I. Ethical science may be divided into philosophi- 
cal ethics, theological ethics, and Christian ethics. 

(«.) Philosophical Ethics . — The science, in this as- 
pect, must find its root and its life, its forms and its 


authority, in the depths of the human constitution. 
This leads necessarily to the idea of God. We do not 
affirm that ethics cannot be discussed at all without 
bringing in the notion of a supreme being. On the 
contrary, it is undeniable that we find in man a moral 
nature; whatever may be the character of his morali- 
ty, the very doubts about that imply the fact of mo- 
rality. He manifestly has relations to virtue and 
vice, to right and wrong, to blame and praise, to guilt 
and innocence. True, if he does not accept the idea 
of God, morals seem to lose their foundation. Why 
should a man obey the dictates of his nature, even 
when obedience seems to be right and useful, unless 
his nature is a product of wisdom, and reveals the law 
and the nature of an infinite intelligence ? But truth 
is stubborn, and even a fragment of it, swinging in the 
air without a foundation, will live. Pulled up out of 
the soil of the doctrine of God, the moral ideas, howev- 
er shorn of their strength and withered, still assert 
their authority and insist on obedience, from motives 
of utility, or fitness, or happiness. A genuine philo- 
sophical ethics, however, will find a Creator from the 
study of the creature, and will raise frem the nature 
of man a law which will greund itself in the idea of 
God. 

(5.) Theological Ethics . — This is grounded upon seme 
religion or theology. But in this aspect the science is 
broad enough to cover every religion. The ethics 
might be theological, and at the same time Buddhistic, 
or Mohammedan, or Brahminical. Theological ethics, 
therefore, might be a system on which the fundament- 
al principle of moials had been perverted by the ad- 
mixture of cruel and impure superstitions, just as a so- 
called philosophical ethics might be atheistic or pan- 
theistic. 

(c.) Christian Ethics . — Christian ethics is theological 
ethics limited by Christianity. As thus stated, it 
might appear to be narrower than either philosophical 
or theological ethics, but in reality it is far otherwise. 
Philosophical ethics is Christian so far as it is true and 
just, anti, from the very nature of Christianity, as con- 
taining a complete account of human duty, it must 
even be broader and deeper than all human philosophies 
which relate to it. As to the relation of Christian eth- 
ics to any other supposed theological ethics, or to all 
other theologies in their moral aspects taken together, 
its position must be that of judge among thorn all : it 
must measure them all, eliminating whatever is false, 
restoring what is lacking, or rather supplanting them 
one and all as the only standard of moral truth and 
duty. 

Besides, Christian ethics, considered as a science, 
and hence as a field for speculation, covers the whole 
ground. Philosophy and theology, in their ethical re- 
lations, are entirely within its scope. It must judge 
them both wherever it touches them. It has made 
ethics, and indeed all speculation, a different thing 
from what it was before it entered into human thought, 
and it aims to master all human thinking within its 
sphere. It is, to be sure, amenable to philosophical 
thought, and cannot repel the tests of right reason ; it 
readily enters into the struggle with every adverse in- 
tellectual tendency, carrying W'itb it a divine confi- 
dence that alone contains the infallible and indestruc- 
tible norm of humanity regarded as moral. 

Christian ethics, indeed, considered as speculative, 
is not infallible. God has given the ethical norm, but 
man is obliged to speculate for himself. Evidently 
the complete form of Christian ethics, considered as 
philosophical, has not yet been reached. Its condition 
is yet militant, both in relation to false systems and to 
its own development. The genuine Christian ethics, 
in the scientific sense, lies scattered in various human 
treatises, in part is yet to be born, and remains to be 
evolved in the coming ages, and to be wrought into a 
system of beneficence and beauty which shall settle 
down on the whole human race, at once an atmosphere 


ETHICS 


320 


ETHICS 


of divine and filial love, and an antidote to discord, in- 
justice, and all impurity. 

“As between theological and philosophical specula- 
tion, so between theological and philosophical ethics, 
in so far as they are speculative, we must make a 
strong distinction. The latter pair differ precisely as 
the former do. Hut, much as philosophical and theo- 
logical ethics differ, they arc not opposites. "Within 
the Christian world, Christian ethics, like pliilosophj' 
in general, must always be essentially Christian. It 
has always been so, as the result of an inviolable his- 
torical necessity, but in different degrees at different 
periods of time, and in the several stages of its prog- 
ress. There may, indeed, arise a relative hostility be- 
tween philosophical ethics and the contemporaneous 
Christian teaching, or even a hostility between ethical 
writers and Christianity in general ; or, rather, such a 
hostility is unavoidable precisely in the degree in 
which humanity fails to be penetrated by Christianity. 
But, so lung as this continues to be the case, it must be 
a proof of imperfection, not in philosophy only, but 
also in Christian piety. For even if Christian piety, 
looking at the doctrine in itself, should be convinced 
that it possessed the true results, yet she possesses her 
treasure without the scientific ability to understand it, 
or to vindicate it to the understanding of others. It 
is, therefore, as science, still imperfect. A result of 
this will be that theological ethics will share in the 
imperfection. So long as the moral consciousness of 
the Christian, which is specifically determined by the 
church of which he is a member, does not clearly rec- 
ognise itself in the forms of morality prevailing in his 
circle, a Christian ethical philosophy must remain a 
want — a desideratum. This, however, is only to say 
that this want will last while the general moral senti- 
ment and that of the Church remain apart. The more 
nearly each approaches perfection in its own sphere, 
the nearer they come to being one. If we conceive 
of each as perfect, they remain two only in form, i. e. 
not different in their method, but onl} r in the order ac- 
cording to which, under the same method, they scien- 
tifically arrange themselves. 

“ What has now been said of the relation between 
philosophical and theological ethics, holds of the latter 
only so far as it is conceived of as speculative. In 
other modes of treating theological ethics, especially in 
the traditional, it is easy to conceive that the relation 
would be different It must be distinctly af- 

firmed that a Christian character belongs to philosoph- 
ical ethics throughout the Christian world. "We do 
not mean that it ought to be so, but that it really is so ; 
not, indeed, always in the highest and fullest sense, and 
as it ought to be, but still, in such a sense, whatever 
men may be conscious of, that without Christianity it 
never could have been what it is. In the Christian 
world there is no element of the moral or intellectual 
life which is not associated with some result of Chris- 
tianity, itself undeniably the ground-principle of the 
historical development of our whole Christian times- 
It can never be sufficiently remembered, especially in 
onr own times, that what is actually Christian, and, in- 
deed, what is essentially and specifically Christian, 
reaches, in all the relations of life, far beyond the sphere 
to which usage gives the name of Christian, or of 
which the present generation is at all conscious as 
Christian. The Christian element inheres in the very 
blood of that portion of humanity which passes under 
the name of Christendom. This is not the less true 
because certain individuals belonging to the Christian 
community may not feel its regenerating power. Be- 
sides, that would he a poor ethical system, considered 
as philosophy, which should ignore the great facts 
through which morality becomes Christian, and which 
should refuse to those facts the controlling position 
which actually belongs to them in making the moral 
world what, in point of science, it has become. These 
great facts, let men close their eves as they will, are 


1 the breaking out of sin and the development of its 
destructive power in the world on the one hand, and 
the entrance of Jesus, the God-man, and the historical 
redeeming power proceeding from him on the other. 
Even philosophical morality, if it would not degener- 
ate into mere unphilosophical abstractions, must make 
the moral life, considered as historical and concrete, 
scientifically comprehensible ; the concrete historical 
form of the moral world, however, is, for us at least, 
before everything else, Christian, just as general his- 
1 tory since the time of Christ is itself Christian. 

“ Blit, so long as we follow Schleiermaeher, and, in 
explaining the relation between philosophical and the- 
ological ethics, make the religious consciousness the 
opposite of speculation, we shall never escape confu- 
sion. The religious consciousness finds its antithesis 
not in speculation, but in the not religious , and specu- 
lation finds its opposite not in piety, but in empirical 
reflection: empirical reflection and speculation stand 
in very similar relations to piety. The larger number 
of theological writers are still of the opinion that the 
distinction between philosophical and theological eth- 
ics lies in the former being the universal, the abstract, 
the ethics of humanity, and the latter the concrete and 
specifically Christian, because it rests on history. Tims 
Schmid and "Wuttke. These writers hold that the 
great facts which form the angles of the Christian 
theory of the world, namely, sin and redemption by 
Christ, are, according to their nature, inadequate as 
the basis of any purely a priori or speculative theory. 
They lay great stress on this. But why reason thus? 
At bottom, because they start with the presupposition 
that there is no other necessity but the necessity of 
nature . But, in spite of all the confident assertions of 
the contrary, we cannot doubt that from the specifical- 
ly Christian consciousness of God, which is the subject 
treated here, sin and redemption should be deduced as 
a logical necessity” (Bothe, Theologisehe Ethik, i, 57). 

II. Position of Ethics in Theology . — “ Ethics is a part 
of systematic theology, which also includes dogmatics. 
As systematic science, it is to be distinguished from 
excgeticul and historical theology. Its oftice is not 
merely to show what is the original, and thus norma- 
tive Christian ethics, nor what has been accepted as 
such, but rather to teach that Christian ethics is the 
genuine ethical truth.” .... “On the other hand, 
ethics must be separated from the various branches of 
practical theology among which it has often been 
placed. The two sciences are different both in scope 
and aim. Ethics embraces the whole Christian idea 
of good, and not merely the Church, in which it finds 
only its culmination, and points away from itself to 
practical theology, the aim of which is, of course, prac- 
tical” (Herzog’s Peal-Encyklop. art. Ethik). 

Place in Systematic Theology. — “In ancient times, 
and down to the Reformation, it was not independent, 
but held a subordinate place in the science of dogmat- 
ics. From the 17th century the two have been sepa- 
rated, and, following P. Ramus, most writers have 
distinguished between them as between theory and 
practice. In point of fact, dogmatics has practical 
importance, and ethics, as the science of the good, 
has a theory” (Herzog’s Peal- Ency Hop. art. Ethik). 
“Dogmatics ami ethics are as certainly independent 
discipline as God and man arc separate beings. Only 
a point of view like that of Spinoza, in his Ethics, 
which denies the existence of a real creation and a 
moral world separate from God, can controvert the 
independent position of ethics by the side of dogmat- 
ics” (idem). 

These views arc substantially correct. “ Christian 
ethics has a right to an independent position in the 
sphere of systematic theology, and it and dogmatics 
are as certainly, distinct as arc God and man.” Still 
it is none the less true that, God and man conceived to 
be such as they are, ethics cannot he practically sepa- 
rated from religion. Ethics finds its highest sanctions 


ETHICS 


321 


ETHICS 


in religion, as religion must consist largely in pre- 
scribing ethics. God and man being presented to the 
mind, ethics must cover the character of each, and also 
the relation between them. 

III. The Ethical Faculty — Conscience. — There has 
been a great waste of controversy on the question 
whether or not conscience is a distinct and separate 
faculty of the soul, or only an application of the rea- 
son or judgment to moral subjects. The truth is that, 
the mind being a unit, all its faculties are only so 
many powers of applying itself differently according 
to demand. A faculty is a power of doing or acting, 
and a separate faculty is the power of acting in a par- 
ticular direction, as distinguished from other direc- 
tions. The mind is as certainly and distinctly moral 
as it is intellectual, or imaginative, or volitional. 
Each of these expresses a distinct power of the one 
mind. 

This faculty of forming moral judgments we call 
conscience; and, if the views now expressed be cor- 
rect, there is little propriety in discussions respecting 
the origin of conscience. It has no origin but that of 
its possessor; it is born with him, though from its na- 
ture it is only developed farther on in life, just as rea- 
son and imagination are. It has been asked, in reply 
to this view, whether conscience is not made what it is 
in any given case by the circumstances about it — by 
teaching, by the man’s own acts — in short, by all the 
influences brought to bear upon him. 'We answer it 
is as to its form, but there was first conscience, a mor- 
al faculty in the man to be shaped. We concede that 
neither moral ideas, nor ideas of any sort, are innate ; 
but the capacity, nay, the constitutional necessity for 
moral ideas is innate. 

IV. The Ethical Standard is, of course, according to 
Christianity, to be found in the Scriptures, but there 
is still in the sphere of science a wide diversity as to 
their meaning. But when the standard is supposed 
to be understood on a given question, and the con- 
science submits to it, there must follow a perfect self- 
abnegation ; degradation must result from disobedi- 
ence. In the case of a conflict between the conscience 
and the law of the state, for example, in which case 
the conscience of the lawgiving majority collides with 
the individual conscience, who shall yield ? The an- 
swer, from the very nature of the case, is, neither. 
They must fight it out. The state, from its nature, is 
supremo, and cannot yield ; but for the man the con- 
science is also supreme. The man can only die, or 
make some other atonement, and thus maintain alle- 
giance to the highest tribunal. 

V. History of Ethics. — (a.) The sources of knowl- 
edge here are Christ, his person and teaching; also 
the writings of the apostles, as shown in the New Tes- 
tament. In the Old Testament the whole contents 
are authoritative, except as modified or repealed by 
the New Testament. By the side of these objective 
sources we have a subjective source in the New Cov- 
enant ; it is the influence of the Holy Spirit in the 
faithful. To this Barnabas, Justin, and Clement of 
Alexandria bear witness. This life of the Spirit in 
the Church was by-and-by supplanted by the sup- 
posed eflicacy of ordination, by which the Spirit was 
bound to the priesthood exclusively. There came 
now an outward law of the Church to" modify the New 
Testament, and it controlled the ethical consciousness 
of Christendom until the Reformation. 

(6.) Abundance of ethical material is found in the 
apostolical fathers, who base ethics on individual per- 
sonality, on marriage, the family, etc. The most ef- 
fective of the earlier writers was Tertullian (220). His 
ethical writings were very numerous, such as concern- 
ing spectacles , concerning the veiling of virgins , monog i- 
iny , penitence , patience , etc. Ilis idea of Christianity 
was that it was a vast and defiant war power, separated 
from all the heathen customs of the Old World, and re- 
solved to bring upon that world the judgment of Ileav- 
III.— X 


en. Cyprian, with his high claims for the episcopate, 
exercised great influence on the ethical sphere of the 
Church. He concentrated the truth of the Church 
in the episcopacy, in which he saw the vehicle of the 
Holy Ghost, and the instrument by which unity and 
the Holy Spirit should be assured to the Church for- 
ever. lie carried this idea of the dignity of the epis- 
copate, and the sanctity and sanctifying power of or- 
ders, to a ridiculous extent. His doctrine of the effica- 
cy of orders and the dignity of bishops was set over 
against certain sects — Novations, Montanists, Dona- 
tists — who held that the holiness and unity of the 
Church demanded that none blit holy persons should 
be members. Augustine fell heir to this controversy. 
As the Church grew into an earthly kingdom, her eth- 
ics took more and more the direction of a so-called 
higher virtue, whose chief forms were celibacy, pov- 
erty, conventual life, and self-imposed torture. 

Asceticism not only formed a part of the Church 
life, it became also the centre from which the Christian 
life was forced to receive rule and law. It determined 
what was sin, and what was right and good : it dicta- 
ted to councils ; and, getting control of the state, it 
dispensed at will its spiritual and temporal awards; 
penitential books in great numbers were compiled, and, 
bad as the system was in itself, it became a powerful 
instrument in bringing to order the various heathen 
peoples. For the books and writers on these subjects, 
see Herzog’s Real-Encykiop. iv, .194, where the rela- 
tion of asceticism to mysticism is well presented, and 
it is shown that all these terrible struggles had their 
root in the consciousness of the infinite demerit of sin, 
and found their happy solution in Luther’s doctrine of 
faith. 

The Reformation not only conquered the prevailing 
errors by leading men back to the holy Scriptures, 
but it established positively the real principle of Chris- 
tian ethics. It did this through justifying faith, 
which, working by love, creates the possibility of 
Christian ethics. Love, springing from faith, is the 
fulfilling of the law. It is ethics in the soul, ready 
to take shape in noble action. This, working in the 
community inwardly, proceeds to mould all relations, 
private and public — marriage, family, church, state, 
science, art, and culture. The great reformers did 
not write complete ethical treatises, though they dis- 
cussed many ethical subjects, such as prayer, oaths, 
marriage, etc. ; but they especially discussed ethics 
in their explanations of the Decalogue in the Cate- 
chism. Indeed, the original form of Christian ethics 
is the Catechism. See Paul of Eitzcn, Ethicce doc - 
tdnee, lib. iv (1751), with later additions; also David 
Chytraus, 1600, Virtutum descriptions in pracepta Dec- 
alogi distributee (1555) ; Lambert Dancau (f 1596), Ethi- 
ces Christiana ?, lib. iii (Geneva, 1577); Thomas Venato- 
rius, De Virtute Christiana, lib. iii ; comp. Schwarz, 
Thomas Yenatorius , and the beginnings of Protestant 
ethics , in connection with the doctrine of justification. 
Stud. n. Krit. (1850), heft. i. See also INlelancthon, in 
liis rhilosophia M oralis (1539), bis Enarratio aliquot 
librorvm A ristotelis (1545), and his Physicct. Add to 
these Keckcrmann, Sy sterna ethicce tnbus libris adorna- 
tum (Geneva, 1614) ; Weigel, Johann Arndt, Valentin 
Andrea, Spener, Nitzsch, Henry Miiller, Scriver, and 
others, all mystics. The Reformed have also done 
something in this line, especially G. Voetius, C. Vi- 
tringa, II. Witsius, Amesius, Amyraldus (. Morale Chrc- 
tienne , 6 vols. 1652-1660). 

Three men, according to J. A. Dorner (in Herzog’s 
Real-Encyklop. iv, 199), form the transition stage to 
the emancipation of philosophy — Hugo Grotins ( De 
jure pads et belli), Pufifcndorf, with his school, and 
Christian Thomasius. Then come Wolf, Mosheim (in 
his Moral, 9 vols.), Steinhart, Bahrdt, Buddeus, Chr. 
Aug. Crusius, and J. F. Reuss ( Elementa theolcgice Mo- 
ralis, 1767). Even the Rom in Catholic Church of the 
last two centuries has felt the influence of the modern 


ETIIICS 


322 


ETHICS 


philosophy; the following Romanist writers are Wolf- 
ians : Luby, SchwarzhUber, Sehanza, and Startler; 
and the following are Kan tutus : Wanker, Mutschelle, 
Hermes, with his disciples Braun, Elvenich, and Vo- 
gelsang. Wei Her is a Schellingian ; independent, 
and, at the same time, mild and evangelical, pious 
and rich in thought, are Michael Sailer and Ilirscher. 
Geishuttner is a Fiehtian. 

Kant’s “practical reason,” the metaphysics of eth- 
ics, occupies in the philosophy of morals a most im- 
portant place, and, notwithstanding certain defects, it 
has the immortal honor to have discovered that the 
most certain of all things is the conscience in its rela- | 
tion to the practical reason, and to have made an end 
of the eudicmonism of ethics by means of the majesty 
of the moral law, which he compares with the glory 
of the starry heavens. To his “categorical impera- 
tive” certain rationalistic Kantians adhere ; for exam- i 
pie, J. W. Schmid, Karl Christian Schmid, and Krug. 
Some of the supernatural ifcts, as Staudlin and Tief- , 
trunk, Ammon and Vogel, incline to Jacobi’s philoso- 
phy. See also Fichte, System of Ethics (1797). To the 
Jacobi-Friesian school belong De Wette (Christ liche ( 
Sittenlehre , 4 bde. 1819-23), Kiihler, and Baumgarten- 
Crusius. To the school of Hegel belong Michelet 
(System der Philosoph. Moral , Berlin, 1828), L. V. Hen- 
ning (Pr'mcip. der Ethih in historischer Entivichlung , 
18*24), Vatke, Von der menschl. Freiheit im Verhdltniss 
zu Siinde und Gnade , 1843) ; Marheineke (Christliche 
Moral , 1847), Daub (Christliche Moral , 1840). Of this 
school, yet more under the influence of Schleiermacher, 
are Martensen (Syst. Moral Philos. 1841), Wirth (Sys. 
specnl. Ethih , 1841), II. Merz (Syst. Christl. Sittenlehre , 
nack den Grundsdtzen des Protestantismus , etc., 1841). 

The activity of Schleiermacher in Christian ethics, 
as in other departments of theology, was immense. 
From 1819 he published his treatises on “the idea of 
virtue,” “the idea of duty,” and on “the relation 
between the moral law and the law of nature;” also 
on the idea of what may be “ allowed” and the “chief 
good.” llis system was not further published by him- 
self, but after his death A. Schweizer edited his Philos. 
Ethih in 1835, and Jonas his Christl. Sitte in 1843. See 
also Sartorius, Jleil. Liebe ; liarless, Christliche Ethik ; 
and especially Rothe, Theolog. Ethik (2d edit. 1807). 
Rothe (translated by Morrison, Clark’s Library, Ed- 
inburgh, 18G8, 8vo) seeks to combine Hegel's stand- 
point of objective knowledge with Schleiermacher’s 
fine moral tact and organizing power, and to excel 
them both in his highly original method. See also 
Riitcnick’s Christl. S'ttenhhre (1845); Gelzer, D e Re- 
ligion im Leben , etc. (1854); Schwarz, Evan. Chr. Ethih 
(1830, 3d ed.); Wendt, Kirchliche Ethih v. Standpunhte 
1 1. christl. Freiheit (2 vols. Svo, Leipz. 1804-05); Cai- 
man, D. christliche Ethik (Stuttgardt, 1804-60, 2 vols. 
Svo). This sketch of the history of ethics is chiefly 
condensed from Dorner’s article (Ethih') in Ilerzog, 
Real- Encghlop. iv, 105 sq. (B. 11. X.) 


Appendix. — It is proper to add to the above a brief 
account of the history of ethics, or moral philosophy, 
in England. A survey of this field will be found in 
Mackintosh, Genercd Mew of the Progress of Ethical 
Philosophy (Encyc. Britannica , Prelim . Diss.), sepa- 
rately printed in his Miscellaneous U'orEs* (Loml. 1851, 
12mo), and in a separate volume (Phila. 1832, Svo); 
also in Whewell, Lectures on the Hist, of Moral Philos- 
ophy in England (Load. 1852, Svo) ; there is also a sum- 
mary sketch of the history in Brande, Dictionary of 
Science Literature , and A/*/, i, 821 sq. (bond. 1805, 3 
vols. Svo). From these ami other sources we con- 
dense the following sketch : 

The modern English theories may be classed as 
selfish or disinterested, according as they ‘found vir- 
tue on a selfish or a l>enevolent principle. The 
selfish theory is advocated by Ilobbes (j 1079), who 
makes self-love the exclusive passion, and consid- 


ers pleasure the only motive to action (see his Hu « 
man Nature , his Leviathan, and our article Hobiies). 
The same theory is adopted in substance by Jeremy 
Bentham (f 1832), who assumes Hobbes’s principle as 
self-evident, that every object is indifferent, except for 
its fitness to produce pleasure or pain, which he de- 
clares are the sole motives to action. “ Bentham is 
the most distinguished propounder of the principle of 
utility as the basis of morals, a principle explained by 
him as in contrast, first, to asceticism, and next to 
‘sympathy and antipathy,’ by which he meant to de- 
scribe all those systems, such as the moral-sense the- 
ory, that are grounded in internal feeling, instead of a 
regard to outward consequences. In opposing utility 
to asceticism, he intended to imply that there was no 
merit attaching to self-denial as such, and that the in- 
fliction of pain or the surrender of pleasure could only 
I he justified by being the means of procuring a greater 
I amount of happiness than was lost” (Chambers, s. v.). 

. See Bentham, Treatise on Morals and Legislation ; and 
our article Bentham, Jeremy. Locke (f 1704) de- 
| uied the existence of a separate faculty for perceiving 
, moral distinctions. In his Essay on the Human Under - 
] standing (bk. i, ch. iii), he maintains that virtue is ap- 
proved of, not because it is innate, but because it is 
profitable. Paley (f 1805) also rejected the doctrine 
[ of a moral sense, and held, in substance, the utilita- 
rian theory, maintaining that “virtue is the doing good 
, to mankind, in obedience to the will of God, and for 
the sake of everlasting happiness” (Moral and Polit- 
ical Philosophy). The utilitarian theory is taught by 
all the recent English writers of the materialistic 
school : see James Mill, Analysis of the Human Mind 
I (Lond. 1829; see Mile, James) ; Austin, Prov’nce of 
Jurisprudence determined (2d ed. London, 1861); John 
Stuart Mill, Dissertations and Discussions (1859); and 
his Utilitarianism , reprinted from Fraser’s Magazine 
1 (1862; 2d ed. 1804); Bain, The Emotions and the Will 
j (Lond. 1859) ; The Senses and the Intellect (Lond. 1855) ; 

, also his Mental and Moral Science (Lond. 1868, 8vo), 

| where lie teaches that conscience is solely the product 
of education. See also, in reply to these writers, The 
North British Review , September, 1867, art. i ; The 
British Quarterly , January, 1868, art. vi. 

: Opposed to the utilitarian theory there are two the- 

ories, which may be called the instinctive and the ra- 
tional. The former refers the moral principle to the 
sensitive or emotive part of man’s nature ; the latter, 
to the perception of moral good and evil by the intel- 
lect. To the first class belongs Adam Smith (f 1790), 
whose Theory of the Moral Sentiments (Glasgow, 1759; 
London, 1790, and often) refers the moral sense to 
sympathy. II is view is thus stated by Mackintosh 
(Ethical Philosophy , Philadelphia, 1832, p. 1-19): “That 
mankind are so constituted as to sympathize with 
each other’s feelings, and to feel pleasure in the ac- 
cordance of these feelings, are the only facts required 
bv Dr. Smith, and they certainly must be granted to 
him. To adopt the feelings of another is to approve 
them. When the sentiments of another are such as 
would be excited in us by the same objects, we ap- 
prove them as morally proper. To obtain this accord, 
it becomes necessary for him who enjoys or sutlers to 
lower his expression of feeling to the point to which 
the by-stander can raise his fellow-feelings, on which 
are founded all the high virtues of self-denial and self- 
command ; and it is equally necessary for the by-stand- 
er to raise his sympathy as near as he can to the level 
of the original feeling. In all unsocial passions, such 
as anger, we have a divided sympathy between him who 
feels them and those who are the objects of them. 

I Hence the propriety of extremely moderating them. 
Pure malice is always to be concealed or disguised, 
because all sympathy is arrayed against it. In the 
private passions, where there is only a simple sympathy 
— that with the original passion — the expression has 
more liberty. The benevolent affections, where there 


ETHICS 323 ETHICS 


is a double sympathy — with those who feel them and 
those who are their objects — are the most agreeable, 
and may be indulged with the least apprehension of 
finding no echo in other breasts. Sympathy with the 
gratitude of those who are benefited by good actions 
prompts us to consider them as deserving of reward, 
and forms the sense of merit ; as fellow-feeling with the 
resentment of those who are injured by crimes leads 11 s 
to look on them as worthy of punishment, and consti- 
tutes the sense of demerit. These sentiments require 
not only beneficial actions, but benevolent motives for 
them ; being compounded, in the case of merit, of a di- 
rect sympathy with the good disposition of the bene- 
factor, and an indirect sympathy with the person ben- 
efited; in the opposite case with the precisely opposite 
sympathies. He who does an act of wrong to another 
to gratify his own passions must not expect that the 
spectators, who have none of his undue partiality to 
his own interest, will enter into his feelings. In such 
a case he knows that they will pity the person wrong- 
ed, and be full of indignation against him. When he 
is cooled, he adopts the sentiments of others on his own 
crime, feels shame at the impropriety of his former pas- 
sion, pity for those who have suffered by him, and a 
dread of punishment from general and just resent- 
ment. Such are the constituent parts of remorse. 
Our moral sentiments respecting ourselves arise from 
those which others feel concerning us. We feel a 
self-approbation whenever we believe that the gen- 
eral feeling of mankind coincides with that state of j 
mind in which we ourselves were at a given time. ' 
‘ We suppose ourselves the spectators of our own be- 
havior, and endeavor to imagine what effect it would 
in this light produce in us.’ Wc must view our own 
conduct with the eyes of others before we can judge it. 
The sense of duty arises from putting ourselves in the 
place of others, and adopting their sentiments respect- 
ing our own conduct. In utter solitude there could 
have been no self-approbation. The rules of morality 
are a summary of those sentiments, and often benefi- 
cially *stand in their stead when the self-delusion of 
passion would otherwise hide from us the nonconform- . 
ity of our state of mind with that which, in the circum- 
stances, can be entered into and approved by impartial 
by-standers. It is lienee that we learn to raise our 
mind above local or temporary clamor, and to fix our 
eyes on the surest indications of the general and last- j 
ing sentiments of human nature. ‘ When we approve 
of any character or action, our sentiments are derived 
from four sources: first, we sympathize with the mo- 
tives of the agent; secondly, we enter into the grati- 
tude of those who have been benefited by liis actions ; j 
thirdly, we observe that Ills conduct has been agree- I 
able to the general rules by which these two sympa- 
thies generally act; and, last of all, when we consider 
such actions as forming part of a system of behavior 
which tends to promote the happiness either of the in- 
dividual or of society, they appear to derive a beauty j 
from this utility not unlike that which we ascribe to 
any well-contrived machine’ ” ( Theory , ii, 304, Edinb. 
1801). | 
Lord Shaftesbury (f 1713) published in 1699 his In- 
quiry concerning Virtue (also London, 1709, and in bis | 
Characteristics ), which, according to Mackintosh, “is j 
unquestionably entitled to a place in the first rank of ' 
English tracts on moral philosophy, and contains more 
intimations of an original and important nature on the 
theory of Ethics than perhaps any preceding work of 
modern times.” This praise rests on the fact that 
Shaftesbury developed the doctrine of a moral sense. 1 
The “most original, as well as important of his sug- 1 
gestions is, that there are certain affections of the , 
mind which, being contemplated by the mind itself 
through what he calls a reflex sense , become the ob- 
jects of love, or the contrary, according to their na- j 
tare. So approved and loved, they constitute virtue \ 
or merit as distinguished from mere goodness , of which 


there are traces in animals who do not appear to reflect 
on the state of their own minds, and who seem, there- 
fore, destitute of what he elsewhere calls a moral sense. 
These statements are, it is true, far too short and 
vague, lie nowhere inquires into the origin of the 
reflex sense. What is a much more material defect, 
he makes no attempt to ascertain in what state of 
mind it consists. We discover only by implication, 
and by the use of the term sense , that lie searches for 
the fountain of moral sentiments, not in mere reason, 
where Cudworth and Clarke had vainly sought for it, 
but in the heart, whence the main branch of them as- 
suredly flows. It should never he forgotten that we 
owe to these hints the reception into ethical theory of 
a moral sense, which, whatever may be thought of its 
origin, or in whatever words it may be described, 
must always retain its place in such theory as a main 
principle of our moral nature. His demonstration of 
the utility of virtue to the individual far surpasses all 
attempts of the same nature, being founded, not on a 
calculation of outward advantages or inconveniences, 
alike uncertain, precarious, and degrading, but on the 
unshaken foundation of the delight, which is of the very 
essence of social affection and virtuous sentiment; on 
the dreadful agony inflicted by all malevolent passions 
upon every soul that harbors the hellish inmates ; on 
the all-important truth that to love is to be happy, and 
to hate is to be miserable; that affection is its own 
reward, and ill-will its own punishment; or, as it has 
been more simply and more affectinglv, as well as 
wilh more sacred authority, taught, that to give is 
more blessed than to receive, and that to love one an- 
other is the sum of all human virtue” (Mackintosh, 
History of Ethical Philosophy , p. 95). 

Bishop Butler (f 1752) sets forth his moral doctrine 
in his Sermons (often reprinted), which have been re- 
cently published as a text-book by the Rev. J. C. 
Passmore, under the title Bishop Butler's Ethical Dis- 
courses (Philadelphia, 1855, 12mo). lie is undoubt- 
edly the greatest of modern English writers on the 
true nature of ethics. “Mankind,” lie says, “have 
various principles of action, some leading directly 
to the private good, some immediately to the good 
of the community. But the private desires are not 
self-love, or any form of it ; for self-love is the desire 
of a man’s own happiness, whereas the object of an 
appetite or passion is some outward thing. Self- 
love seeks things as means of happiness ; the private 
appetites seek things, not as means, but as ends. A 
man eats from hunger, and drinks from thirst; and 
though he knows that these acts are necessary to life, 
that knowledge is not the motive of his conduct. No 
gratification can indeed he imagined without a pre- 
vious desire. If all the particular desires did not ex- 
ist independently, self-love would have no object to 
employ itself about, for there would he no happiness, 
which, by the very supposition of the opponents, is 
made up of the gratification of various desires. No 
pursuit could be selfish or interested if there were not 
satisfactions first gained by appetites which seek their 
own outward objects without regard to self, which 
satisfactions compose the mass which is called a man's 
interest. In contending, therefore, that the benevo- 
lent affections are disinterested, no more is claimed for 
them than must be granted to mere animal appetites 
and to malevolent passions. E ich of these principles 
alike seeks its own object for the sake simply of obtain- 
ing it. Pleasure is the result of the attainment, but 
no separate part of the aim of the agent. The desire 
that another person may be gratified seeks that out- 
ward object alone, according to the general course of 
human desire. Resentment is as disinterested as grat- 
itude or pity, but not more so. Hunger or thirst may 
be, as much as the purest benevolence, at variance 
with self-love, A regard to our own general happi- 
ness is not a vice, hut in itself an excellent quality. 
It were well if it prevailed more generally over crav* 


ETHICS 


324 


ETHICS 


ing and short-sighted appetites. The -weakness of the 
social affections and the strength of the private de- 
sires properly constitute selfishness, a vice utterly at 
variance with the happiness of him who harbors it. and, 
as such, condemned by self-love. There are as few 
who attain the greatest satisfaction to themselves as 
who do the greatest good to others. It is absurd to 
say with some that the pleasure of benevolence is self- 
ish because it is felt by self. Understanding and rea- 
soning are acts of self, for no man can think by proxy; 
but no one ever called them selfsh. Why? Evi- 
dently because they do not regard self. Precisely the 
same rule applies to benevolence. Such an argument 
is a gross confusion of self, as it is a subject of feeling 
or thought, with self considered as the object of either. 
It is no more just to refer the private appetites to self- 
love because they commonly promote happiness, than 
it would be to refer them to self-hatred in those fre- 
quent cases where their gratification obstructs it. 13ut, 
besides the private or public desires, and besides the 
calm regard to our own general welfare, there is a 
principle in man, in its nature supreme over all oth- 
ers. This natural supremacy belongs to the faculty 
which surveys, approves, or disapproves the several 
affections of our minds and actions of our lives. As 
self-love is superior to the private passions, so con- 
science is superior to the whole of man. Passion im- 
plies nothing but an inclination to follow" it, and in 
that respect passion differs only in force. But no no- 
tion can he formed of the principle of reflection or con- 
science which does not comprehend judgment, direc- 
tion, superintendency. Authority over all other prin- 
ciples of action is a constituent part of the idea of con- 
science, and cannot he separated from it. Had it 
strength as it has right, it would govern the world. 
The passions would have their power but according to 
their nature, which is to he subject to conscience. 
Hence w-e may understand the purpose at which the 
ancients, perhaps confusedly, aimed when they laid it 
down that virtue consisted in following nature. It is 
neither easy, nor, for the main object of the moralist, 
important to render the doctrines of the ancients by 
modern language. If Butler returns to this phrase 
too often, it was rather from the remains of undis- 
tinguishing reverence for antiquity than because lie 
could deem its employment important to his own opin- 
ions. The tie which holds together religion and mo- 
rality is, in the system of Butler, somewhat different 
from the common representations, but not less close. 
Conscience, or the faculty of approving or disapprov- 
ing, necessarily constitutes the bond of union. Set- 
ting out from the belief of theism, and combining it, 
as he had entitled himself to do, with the reality of 
conscience, he could not avoid discovering that the 
being who possessed the highest moral qualities is the 
object of the highest moral affections, lie contem- 
plates the Deity through the moral nature of man. In 
the ease of a being who is to he perfectly loved, ‘good- 
ness must he the simple actuating principle within 
him, this being the moral quality which is the imme- 
diate object of love.’ ‘ The highest, the adequate ob- 
ject of this affection, is perfect goodness, which, there- 
fore, we are to love with all our heart, with all our 
soul, and with all our strength.’ ‘We should refer 
ourselves implicitly to him, and east ourselves entirely 
upon him. The whole attention of life should be to 
obey bis commands’ (Sermon xiii, On the Lore of God). 
Moral distinctions are thus presupposed before a step 
can he made towards religion: virtue leads to piety; 
God is to be loved, because goodness is the object of 
love; and it is only after the mind rises through hu- 
man morality to divine perfection that all the virtues 
and duties are seen to hang from the throne of God" 
(Mackintosh, History of Ethical Philosophy, 116 ?q.). 

To the same school belong Hutcheson (f 1747), who 
taught that moral good is simply what the word itself 
expresses, w hich is not explicable by any other phrase. 


From this he argues that moral good must be perceived 
by a sense, because the senses alone are percipient of 
simple qualities (see his Inquiry into the Original of our 
Ideas of Beauty and Virtue, Glasgow, 1725, and often). 
Hume ( Inquiry concerning the Principles of Morals) 
asserts, indeed, that general utility constitutes a uni- 
form ground of moral distinctions, and that reason 
judges of the utility of actions. But he asserts also 
that we approve of good and disapprove of evil in vir- 
tue of a primary sentiment of our nature (distinct 
from self-love), which he calls benevolence or human- 
ity, hut which is identical with conscience, or the 
moral sense. As to the idea of moral obligation, he 
makes it simply a judgment of the understanding that 
happiness flows from obedience to the moral faculty 
rather than from obedience to self-love. For the doc- 
trines of Mackintosh, we must refer our readers to his 
admirable sketch (so often cited in this article) of the 
History of Ethical Philosophy. 

Of the so-called Rational school, the distinctive 
characteristic is “ that it considers the idea of good to 
be an it priori conception of reason, in w hich the idea 
of obligation is necessarily and essentially implied. 
As to the nature of the idea itself, two opinions have 
been held, viz. 1, that it is simple and immediate ; 2, 
that it derives its explanation and authority from some 
higher notion of the intellect. The most distinguish- 
ed representatives of the latter opinion are Clarke and 
Wollaston, while the former has found able advocates 
in Cudworth, Price, and Stewart” (Brantle, l. c.). 

Dr. M‘Cosh {A merican Presbyt. Review, Jan. 1868, 
art. i) classes the modern views on ethics in Great 
Britain into the two schools of Sensational and na- 
tional (or it priori), “corresponding to the two schools 
of philosophy which have divided Europe since Des- 
cartes and Locke.” Under the latter he classes Cud- 
worth, Clarke, Coleridge, Reid, Stewart, and Sir W. 
Hamilton; “none of them, however, except Cole- 
ridge, taking up so high it priori grounds as Des- 
cartes and Cousin in France, or Kant and Hegel in 
Germany.” The Protestants of England, in the main, 
at this time, according to the same writer, do not agree 
with those Roman Catholic writers who deny an inde- 
pendent morality apart from the authority of the 
Church ; while, on the other hand, they do not agree 
with the philosophers who assert not only the inde- 
pendence, but the sufficiency of ethnic or natural mo- 
rality. (See the article cited for a view of the rela- 
tions of the modern sensational doctrine to theology 
and religion.) 

Among American writers, Jonathan Edwards (f 1758) 
is first to be named in this field. In his Dissertation 
concerning the. End of true Virtue, and that On the End 
for which God created the World (both contained in his 
] 1 ’orks, N. Y. ed. vol. ii), he sets forth an ethical theory 
marked by the subtlety and originality w hich charac- 
terize all his speculations. Mackintosh sums it up as 
follows: “True virtue, according to him, consists in 
benevolence, or love to being ‘in general,’ which he 
afterwards limits to ‘intelligent being,’ though sentient 
would have involved a more reasonable limitation. 
This good will is felt towards a particular being, first, 
in proportion to his degree of existence (for, says he, 
‘that which is great has more existence, and is farther 
from nothing, than that which is little’); and, second- 
ly, in proportion to the degree in udiich that particular 
being feels benevolence to others. Thus God, having in- 
finitely more existence and benevolence than man, 
ought to he infinitely more loved; and for the same 
reason, God must love himself infinitely more than he 
does all other brings. He can act only from regard 
to himself, and his end in creation can only he to man- 
ifest his whole nature, which is called acting for his 
own glory.” See also, on his ethical theory, the ar- 
ticle Howards in Appleton’s Cyclopedia, vii, 18 ; and 
the Bibliotheca Sacra , April, 1853, p. 402 sq. There 
are many excellent manuals, prepared for text-books, 


ETHICS 


325 


ETHIOPIA 


by American Avriters, such as those of Adams, Way- 
land, Alexander, Haven, Alden, Hopkins, etc., for far- 
ther mention of which we have not space. Ilickok 
(- System of Moral Science , 1853, 8vo) treats the sub- 
ject from the a, priori point of view, aud also in its 
relations to Christian theology, in a very masterly 
manner. He makes duty an end in and of itself. 
The voice of conscience is imperative. “ There is an 
awful sanctuary in every immortal spirit, and man 
needs nothing more than to exclude all else, and stand 
alone before himself, to be made conscious of an au- 
thority he can neither dethrone nor delude. From its 
approbation comes self-respect; from its disapproba- 
tion comes self-contempt. A stern behest is ever upon 
him that he do nothing to degrade the real dignity of 
his spiritual being. He is a law to himself, and has 
both the judge and executioner within himself, and 
inseparable from him.” u We may call this the im- 
perative of the reason, the constraint of conscience, or 
the voice of God within him ; but, by whatever terms 
expressed, the real meaning will be that every man has 
consciously the bond upon him to do that, and that 
only, w hich is due to his spiritual excellency.” u To 
be thus worthy of spiritual approbation is the end of 
all ends ; and as worthy of happiness, this may now 
righteously be given and righteously taken, but not 
righteously paid as price or claimed as Avages. The 
good is to be v r orthy, not that he is to get something 
for it. The highest good — the summum bonum — is 
worthiness of spiritual approbation” {Moral Science , 
p. 45-49). 

Christian ethics, as distinguished from moral phi- 
losophy in general, has not received the same atten- 
tion from English and American Avriters as from Ger- 
man. The earlier books on Casuistry (q. v.) and Cases 
of Conscience, however, belong under this head. Most J 
of the standard English and American Avriters com- 
mingle philosophical morals Avith Christian ethics. 
Butler brings out Avith clearness the relations of ethics 
to the Christian religion. Ward la w’s Christian Ethics 
(3d ed. Lond. 1837, Boston ; 5th ed. Lond. 185*2) asserts 
that “the science of morals has no province at all in- 
dependently of theology, and that it cannot be philo- 
sophically discussed except upon theological principles 
(Boston ed. p. 367, note). Watson ( [Theolog . Instit. pt. 
iii) treats of Christian ethics under the title “ The Mor- 
als of Christianity,” and denies the a priori method 
(see Cocker, in Aleth. Quart. Jan. 1864). Spalding 
{Phil, of Christian Morals, Lond. 1843, Svo) has “re- 
course both to science as derived from an examina- 
tion of man's moral nature, and to revelation as de- 
rived from an examination of the Scriptures.” 

In France, the orthodox Homan Catholic Avriters 
have generally confined themselves to the so-called 
Moral Theology (q. v.). The Cartesian school [see 
Des Cartes] cultivated Ethics in the neAv philosoph- 
ical spirit; its best representative is Malebranche. 
Virtue he defines to be the love of universal order, as 
it eternally existed in the divine reason, Avhere every 
created reason contemplates it. Particular duties are 
but the applications of this love. He abandoned the 
ancient classification of four cardinal virtues, and for 
it substituted the modern distinction of duties toward 
God, men, and ourselves. The French school of Sen- 
sualism, of which Condillac AA*as the head [see Con- 
dillac], regarded all intellectual operations, even 
judgment and volition, as transformed sensations ; 
and Helvetius, applying the theory to morals, held that 
self-love or interest is the exclusive motor of man, 
denied disinterested motives, made pleasure the only 
good, and referred to legislative rewards and punish- 
ments as illustrating the Avhole system of individual 
action. La Mettrie maintained an atheistic Epicuri- 
anism, and Condorcet Avished to substitute an empiri- 
cal education for the ideas and sanctions of religion and 
morality. The most complete and logical elaboration 
of the materialism, atheism, and fatalism of the period, 


A\diich had pleasure for its single aim and law, was 
given in D’Holbach’s Systeme de la nature. Of the 
later French writers, Jouftrov is perhaps the most im- 
portant. He gave a peculiar explanation of good and 
evil. Every thing is good in proportion as it aids in 
the fulfilment of our destiny. The problem of human 
destiny, therefore, lies at the foundation of morality. 
There can be no a priori judgment as to the moral 
quality of actions, since that is relative to the agent, 
depending on the influence they may have on the des- 
tiny for Avhich he Avas created. Good, in the case of 
any particular being, is the fulfilment of its oAvn specific 
destiny ; good, in itself, is the fulfilment of the destiny 
of all beings ; and an interruption in the accomplish- 
ment of destin} 7 constitutes evil. His system of Ethics 
is chiefly laid down in his Cours du Droit naturcl (2 
vols., Par. 1835 ; a third a*o1. avas edited after his death 
by Damiron, 1842), his most eloquent work, Avhich, be- 
sides ethics, treats of psychology and theodicy. Some 
points are more fully developed in a series of essays, 
Avhich first appeared in periodicals, and of Avhich sub- 
sequently two collections {Mcl tnyes philosophiqnes and 
Noaveaux melanges philosophiqnes) Avere published. 

See, besides the authors named in the course of this 
article, A Sketch of the History of Moral Philosophy, in 
the introduction to St. Hilaire’s translation of Aristo- 
tle’s Politics {Politique d'Aristote, Paris); Mcincrs, 
Allgem . Krit. Geschichte d. dlteren u. neueren Etliik 
(Gottingen, 1801, 2 vols.); Hagenbach, Encyclop. u. 
Methodologie, § 92 ; Cousin, CEuer. Philosophiqnes (Par- 
is, 1846—52) ; Bautain, Morale (Paris, 1842, 2 vols.) ; 
Damiron, Cours de Philosophic, vols. iii and iv (Paris, 
1842); Jouffroy, Introd. to Ethics, transl. by Channing 
(Boston, 1840, 2 vels. 8ve) ; Janet, Hist, des idles mo- 
rales et politieques (Paris, 1856) ; Neander, Vorlesungen 
u. d. Geschichte d. christl. Ethik (Berl. 1865, 8vo) ; Ne- 
ander, Relation of Grecian to Christian Ethics; Christ. 
Exam, xxix, 153; xxx, 145; Bill. Sac. 1853, 476 sq. ; 
article Ethics in Chambers’s Encyclopaedia, and in the 
Penny Cyclopcedia, both in the interest of the sensa- 
tional philosophy ; North British Review, Dec. 1867, art. 
iv ; Wuttke, Ilamlbucli der christl. Sittenlehre (2 vols. 
Svo, 1861-62 ; 2d edit. 1866) ; Maurice, Moral and Met - 
aphysical Philosophy ; Maurice, The Conscience: Lec- 
tures on Casuistry (London, 1868). On the nature of 
evil, see Evil ; Six. On liberty and necessity, see 
Will. For the Roman Catholic Avay of treating eth- 
ics, see Moral Theology, 

Ethio'pia (1 Esdr. iii, 2 ; Est. xiii, 1 ; xvi, 1 ; Ju- 
dith i, 10 ; Acts A'iii, 27 , the Hebrew Kush, i. e. 
Cush, as it is generally rendered, Gen. ii, 13; 2 Kings 
xix, 9; Esth. i, 1; Job xxviii, 19; Psa. Ixviii, 31; 
lxxxvii, 4; Isa. xviii, 1; xx, 3,5; xxxvii, 9; x1a t , 
14 ; Ezek. xxx, 4, 5; xxxvdii, 5; Nah. iii, 9), a coun- 
try which, as thus designated bv the ancients, lay to 
the south of Egypt, and embraced, in its most extend- 
ed sense, the modern Nubia, Seminar, Kordofan , and 
northern Abyssinia, and in its more definite sense the 
kingdom of Meroe, from the junction of the Blue and 
White branches of the Nile to the border of Egypt. 
In one passage in the description of the garden of 
Eden, an Asiatic Cush or Ethiopia must be intended 
(Gen. ii, 13), and the distribution of the descendants 
of Cush, Avith later Biblical historical indications, 
should be compared with the classical mentions of 
eastern and western Ethiopians, and other indications 
of profane history. In all other passages, the words 
Ethiopia and the Ethiopians, with one possible excep- 
tion, “the Arabians, that [Avere] near the Ethiopians” 
(2 Chron. xxi, 16), Avhich may refer to Arabians oppo- 
site to Ethiopia, may be safely considered to mean an 
African country and people or peoples. In the Bible, 
as in classical geography, but one limit of Ethiopia is 
laid down, its northern frontier, just beyond Syene, the 
most southern toAvn of Egypt. Egypt is spoken of as 
to be desolate “from Migdol to Syene, even unto th^ 


ETHIOPIA 


32G 


ETHIOPIA 


border of Ethiopia” (Ezek. xxix, 10), or “ from Migdol I 
to Syene” (xxx, (5), showing that then, as now, the | 
Southern boundary of Egypt was at the First Cataract. I 
In other directions the boundaries can only be gen- 
erally described as the lied Sea on the E., the Libyan | 
desert on the YV, and the Abyssinian highlands on 
the S. The extent assigned to Ethiopia in ancient i 
times may have been very great, as it was the land of 
the negroes, and therefore represented all that was j 
known of inner Africa, besides that part of the conti- 
nent south of Egypt which is washed by the lied Sea. 1 
The references ill the Bible are, however, generally, j 
if not always, to the territory which was at times un- 
der Egyptian rule, a tract watered by the Upper Nile, 
and extending from Egypt probably as far as a little 
above the confluence of the White and Blue Rivers. 

The Hebrews do not appear to have had much prac- 
tical acquaintance with Ethiopia itself, though the 
Ethiopians were well known to them through their in- 
tercourse with Egypt. They were, however, perfectly 
aware of its position (Ezek. xxix, 10), and they de- 
scribe it as a well-watered country lying “from the side 
of” (A.V. “beyond”) the waters of Cush (Isa. xviii, 

1 ; Zepli. iii, 10), being traversed by the two branches 
of the Nile, and by the Astaboras or Tacazze. The 
Ni!ie descends with a rapid stream in this part of its 
course, forming a series of c ataracts : its violence seems 
to be referred to in the words of Isa. xviii, 2, “ whose 
land the rivers have spoiled.” The Hebrews seem 
also to have been aware of its tropical characteristics, 
the words translated in the A.V. “the land shadow- 
ing with wings” (Isa. xviii, 1), admitting the sense of 
k ‘the land of the shadow of both sides,” the shadows 
falling towards the north and south at different peri- 
ods of the year, a feature which is noticed by many 
early writers (compare the expression in Strabo, ii, p. 
13”, (tfitplfTKiot ; Virgil, Eel. x, 08 ; Pliny, ii, 75). The 
papyrus boats (“vessels of bulrushes,” Isa. xviii, 2), 
which were peculiarly adapted to the navigation of 
the Upper Nile, admitting of being carried on men’s 
1 »acks when necessary, were regarded as a character- 
istic feature of the country. The Hebrews carried on 
commercial intercourse with Ethiopia, its “merchan- 
dise” (Isa. xlv, 11) consisting of ebony, ivory, frank- 
incense, and gold (Herod, iii, 07, 114), and precious 
stones (Job xxviii, 19 ; Josephus, Ant. viii, 6, 5). 

The following close translation of Isaiah’s splendid 
summons (chap, xviii) to the Ethiopians, as auxilia- 
ries to the Egyptians in the struggle against Sennach- 
erib, is inserted here as graphic of many salient fea- 
tures of that warlike state : 

3Io! land of whirring wings, 

That art across the rivers of ('nsh ; 

That sendest on the sea ambassadors, 

E\en in vessels of papyrus upon the face of the waters. 

<4o. ye light messengers, 

To a nation drafted and drilled. 

To a people fearful henceforth and onward, 

A nation most valiant and dominant, 

'Whose land rivers have split : 

All ye inhabitants of the world, 

And dwellers of the land, 

At the lifting of the standard of the mountains you shall 
see. 

And at the clanging of the trumpet you shall hear. 

For thus has Jehovah said to me : 

I will calmly look in my place — 

Like serene heat above sunlight, 

Like the cloud of dew in the heat of harvest ; 

^ et before the harvest, when the blossom lias grown perfect, 
Or a plump green grap- can the flower beeome, 

Then has one cut the shoots with the pruning-knives, 

And the twigs has he removed, lopped. 

And they shall be left together for the buzzard of the moun- 
tains, 

And for the beast of the earlh ; 

And upon him shall the buzzard summer. 

And every beast of the earth shall winter upon him. 

In that time shall a present be led to Jehovah of armies, 

Of a people drafted and drilled. 

Even from a people fearful henceforth and onward, 

A nation most valiant, and'dominaul, » 

"Whose land rivers have split, 

To the place of the name of Jehovah of armies, Mount Zion. 


The inhabitants of Ethiopia were a Hamitic race 
(Gen. x, G), and are described in the Bible as a dark- 
complexioned (Jcr. xiii, 23) and stalwart race (Isa. xlv, 
14, “men of stature;” xviii, 2, for “scattered,” some 
substitute ‘ ‘ tall”). Their stature is noticed by Herod- 
otus (iii, 20, 114) as well as their handsomeness. Not 
improbably the latter quality is intended by the term 
in Isa. xviii, 2, which in the A.V. is rendered “peel- 
ed,” but which may mean “ fine-looking.” Their ap- 
pearance led to their being selected as attendants in 
royal households (Jer. xxxviii, 7). The Ethiopians 
are on one occasion coupled with the Arabians, as oc- 
cupying the opposite shores of the Red Sea (2 Cliron. 
xxi. 1G); but elsewhere they are connected with Afri- 
can nations, particularly Egypt (Psa. Ixviii, 31; Isa. 
xx, 3, 4: xliii, 3; xlv, 14), Phut (Jer. xlvi, 9), Lub and 
Lud (Ezek. xxx, 5), and the Sukkiim (2 Chron. xii, 3). 
They were divided into various tribes, of whien the 
Sabreans were the most powerful. See Seba ; Suk- 
kiim. 

The name Cush is found in the Egyptian kish, 
which is evidently applied to the same territory, 
though we have the same difficulty in determining its 
limits, save on the north. The classical .. Ethiopia (A t- 
OinTria') may have the same origin, through the Coptic 
ethos, of which, unless it be derived fix m thos, “a 
boundary,” the Sahidic form esos may be the purest, 
and connect the classical with the ancient Egyptian 
name. The Greeks themselves regarded it as expres- 
sive of a dark complexion (from aWio, “ to burn,” and 
iuiJ;, “a countenance”). In the Bible there is no cer- 
tain notice of any Ethiopian race but Cushites. 

According to Dr. Brugsch, the first country above 
Egypt was ta-meru-pet, cr ta-kexs, corresponding 
to Nubia, and extending, under the Pharaohs, at least 
as far south as Napata. Dr. Brugsch supposes that 
I ta-kexs was, in the earlier times, the whole tract 
j south of Syene under Egyptian rule [therefore gov- 
, erned hv the prince of kish, and corresponding to or 
included in that country], and, in the later times, little 
more than the Dodecaschcenus of the Ptolemies and 
Romans, the remains of the older territory (G'ew,ra- 
phhche Inscliriften , i, 100). Asa nome, Nubia, before 
the formation of the Ombite Nome, included OmLos, 
SUsilis being probably the first city of the Egyptian 
Apollinopolite Nome. Although it is not impossible 
that at Silsilis was anciently the great natural barrier 
| of Egypt on the south, we think that this extension of 
I Nubia was simply for purposes of government, as Dr. 
Brugsch seems to admit ( Geogr . Insckr. i, 100). South 
of the Nubia of the Pharaohs he places a region of 
which the name perhaps reads pent-hen P-xitke, 
which, however, was probably a district of the former 
country. Still further, and near Meroe, he puts the 
land of kish, and in and about Me roe the land of 
the neiisi or negroes. Others, however, think that 
kish commenced immediately above Egypt, proba- 
bly always at the First Cataract, and included all the 
known country south of Egypt, ta-meru-pet or ta- 
kexs, save as a nome, being a part of it, the modern 
, Nubia. Names of conquered negro nations, tribes, or 
countries occur on the monuments of the empire: of 
these, t he most suggestive are the barrarta and 
takrerr (see Brugsch, Geogr. Inschr. i, 100-107, 150- 
1G4 : ii, 4 13, 20 ; iii, 3, 4, and indices s. v. .Ethiopian, 
Kes, etc.). 

Ethiopia comprises two very different tracts. North 
of the region of tropical rains, it is generally an ex- 
tremely narrow strip of cultivated land, sometimes but 
a few yards wide, on both sides, or occasionally on one 
side only, of the Nile. Anciently the watered tract 
was much broader, but the giving way of a barrier at 
Silsilis (Jebel cs-Silsileh) or Syene (Aswan) has low- 
ered the level of the river for some distance above the 
| First Cataract ; exactly how far cannot he accurately 
, determined, but certainly for the whole space below 
i the Third Cataract. The cultivable soil which was 


ETHIOPIA 


327 


ETHIOPIA 


anciently productive is now far above the highest level ' Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his stripes ? M 
of the stream. The valley is, however, never broad, (Jer. xiii, 23); and it is to be observed, that whenev* 
the mountains seldom leaving a space of more than a er the race of Kisn is represented on the Egyptian 
mile within the greater part of the region north of the monuments by a single individual, the type is that ol 
limit of tropical rains. The aspect of the country is the true negro (Wilkinson, Anc. Eg. i , 404, abridging 
little varied. On either side of the river, here nar- It is therefore probable that the negro race anciently 
rower than in its undivided course in Upper Egypt, extended further to the north than at present, the 
rise sterile sandstone and limestone mountains, the whole country watered by the Nile, as far as it is 
former sometimes covered by yellow sand-drifts. At known, being now peopled by a race intermediate bc- 
the First Cataract, at Kalab’sheh, and at the Second tween the negro race and the Caucasian. There is no 
Cataract, the river is obstructed, though at the second certain mention in the Bible of this intermediate race 
place not enough to form a rapid, by red granite and in Ethiopia, but the Egyptian and Ethiopian monu- 
other primary rocks. The groves of date-palms, here ments alford us indications of its ancient existence in 
especially fine, are the most beautiful objects in the its modern territory, though probably it did not then 
scene, but its general want of variety is often relieved extend as far south as now. At the present day, Ethi- 
b} r the splendid remains of Egyptian and Ethiopian opia is inhabited by a great variety of tribes of this 
civilization, and the clearness of the air throws a pe- race: the Kunuz, said to be of Arab origin, nearest 
culiar beaut} r over everything that the traveller be- to Egypt, are very dark; the Nubeh,the next nation, 
holds. As he ascends the river, the scenery, after a ^ much lighter; beyond them are some fair Arabs, the 
time, becomes more varied, until on the east he reach- Caucasian Abyssinians, with scarcely any trace of ne- 
es the Abyssinian highlands, on the west the long gro influence save in their dark color, and tribes as 
meadows, the pasture -lands of herds of elephants, ' black as the true negro, or nearly so, though not of 
through which flows the broad and sluggish White the pure negro type. The languages of Ethiopia are 
Nile. In this upper region the climate is far less as various as the tribes, and appear to hold the same 
healthy than below, save in Abyssinia, which, from its intermediate place between the ►Shemitic group and the 
height, is drained, and enjoys an air which is rare and Nigritian, if we except the Ethiopic, which belongs to 
free from exhalations. The country is thus for the the former family. See Ethiopic Language. 
most part mountainous, the ranges gradually increas- In all that relates to the civilization of ancient Ethi- 
ing in altitude towards the S., until they attain an ele- opia we see the same connection with Egypt that is 
vation of about 8001) feet in Abyssinia. constantly indicated in the Bible. So far as the Egyp- 

The Nile is the great fertilizer of the northern re- tian sway extended, which was probably, under the 
gions of Ethiopia, which depend wholly upon its year- empire, as far as somewhat above the junction of the 
ly inundation. It is only towards the junction of the two Niles, the religion of Egypt was probably prae- 
two great streams that the rains take an increasingly tised. While the tract was under Egyptian rule this 
important share in the watering of the cultivable land, was certainly the ease, as the remains of the temples 
In about N. lat. 17° 40', the great river receives its \ sufficiently show. We find it ns the religion of Tir- 
first tributary, the Astaboras, now called the Atbarah. liakah in his Ethiopian as well as his Egyptian sculp- 
In about N. lat. 15° 40' is the confluence of the Blue tures, and this is also the case with the later kings 
and White Niles. The Blue Nile, which has its source of Ethiopia who held no sway in Egypt. There were 
in Abyssinia, is a narrow, rapid stream, with high, steep evidently local differences, but apparently nothing 
mud-banks, like the Nile in Egypt; it is strongly more. Respecting the laws and forms of government 
charged with alluvial soil, to which it owes the dark the same may be supposed. We have very little evi- 
eolor which has given it its distinctive name. From dence as to the military matters of the Ethiopians, yet, 
this stream the country below derives the annual allu- from their importance to Egypt, there can be little 
vial deposits. The White Nile is a colorless river, doubt that they were skilful soldiers. Their armies 
very broad and shallow, creeping slowly through were probably drawn from the Ethiopian or interme- 
meadows and wide marsh-lands. Of the cultivation , diate race, not from the negro. Of the domestic life 
and natural products of Ethiopia little need be said, as of this people we have but slight hints. Probably 
they do not illustrate the few notices of it in Scripture. 1 they were more civilized than are their modern sue- 
It has always been, excepting the northern part, pro- eessors. Their art, as seen in the sculptures of their 
duetive, and rich in animal life. Its wild animals kings in Ethiopian temples from Tirhakah downwards, 
have gradually been reduced, yet still the hippopota- is merely a copy of that of Egypt, showing, after the 
mils, the crocodile, and the ostrich abound, though the first, an inferiority in style to the contemporary works 
second alone is found throughout its extent. The ele- of the original art. Their character can scarcely be 
phant and lion are only known in its southernmost determined from scanty statements, applying, it may 
part. bo, to extremely different tribes. In one particular 

In the Bible a Cushite appears undoubtedly to be all accounts agree: they were warlike, as, for instance, 
equivalent to a negro, from this passage, “ Can the , we equally see in the defiance the Ethiopian king sent 

to Cambyses (Herod, iii, 21), and in the charac- 
teristic inscription at Kalab’sheli of Sileo, “ king 
( fia<ri\imcoc ) of the Nubada? and all the Ethiopi- 
ans” ( Modern Egypt and Thtbes , ii, 311, 312), who 
is to be regarded as a very late Ethiopian king 
or chief in the time of the Roman empire. The 
ancients, from Homer downwards, describe them 
as a happy and pious race. In the Bible they 
are spoken of as “secure” or “ careless” (Ezek. 
xxx, 9), but this may merely refer to their state 
when danger was impending. 

Probably the modern inhabitants of Ethiopia 
give us a far better picture of their predecessors 
than we can gather from the few notices to which 
we have alluded. If we compare the Nubians 
with the representations of the ancient Egyptians 
on the monuments, we are struck by a similarity 
Aucient Llliio; i ins, as suppliants.— From the Egyptian Menu- type, the same manner of wearing the hair, 
merits. (The first cut shows their color.) and a like scantiness of clothing. There can be 



ETHIOPIA 


328 


ETHIOPIA 


no question that the Nubians are mainly descended 
from an Egyptianized Ethiopian people of two thou- 
sand years ago, who were very nearly related to the 
Egyptians. The same may be said of many tribes 
further to the south, although sometimes we find the 
Arab type and Arab manners and dress. The Ethi- 
opian monuments show ns a people like the ancient 
Egyptians and the modern Nubians. The northern 
Nubians are a simple people, with some of the vices, 
but most of the virtues of savages. The chastity 
of their women is celebrated, and they are noted for 
their fidelity as servants. Hut they are inhospitable 
and cruel, and lack the generous qualities of tbe Arabs. 
Further south manners are corrupt, and the national 
character is that of Egypt without its humanity, and 
untouched by any but the rudest civilization. 

In speaking of the history of the country, we may 
include what is known of its chronology, since this is 
no more than the order in which kings reigned. Un- 
til the time of the 12th dynasty of Egypt we have 
neither chronology nor history of Ethiopia. We can 
only speculate upon the earlier conditions of the coun- 
try with the aid of some indications in the Bible. The 
first spread of the descendants of Cush seems to be in- 
dicated by the order in which the Cushite tribes, fami- 
lies, or heads are enumerated in Gen. x. All the 
names, excepting Nimrod, might be thought to indi- 
cate a colonization of Southern and Eastern Arabia, 
were there not good reason to suppose that Seba, 
though elsewhere mentioned with Sheba (Psa. lxxii, 
10), is connected with Ethiopia, and is probably tbe 
Hebrew name of the chief Ethiopian kingdom from 
the time of Solomon downwards. (Josephus calls 
Meroi} Saba, Ant. ii, 10, 2, and Seba of Cush lie calls 
Sabas, ib. i, G, 2.) If this be the case, it would be re- 
markable that Nimrod is mentioned at the end of the 
list and Seba at the beginning, while the intervening 
names, mostly if not all, are Arabian. This distribu- 
tion may account for the strongly-Caueasian type of the 
Abyssinians, and the greater indication of Nigritian 
influence in all the other Ethiopian races; for a curve 
drawn from Nimrod’s first kingdom — there can, we 
think, be little doubt that tbe meaning in Genesis is, 
that he went northward and founded Nineveh — and 
extending along the South Arabian coast, if carried 
into Africa, would first touch Abyssinia. The connec- 
tion of Southern Arabia and Abyssinia has been so 
strong for about two thousand years that we must ad- 
mit the reasonableness of this theory of their ancient 
colonization by kindred tribes. The curious question 
of the direction from which Egyptian civilization came 
cannot here be discussed. It is possible that it may 
have descended the Nile, as was, until lately, supposed 
by many critics, in accordance with statements of the 
Greek writers. The idea or tradition on which these 
writers probably build may he due to the Nigritian 
origin of the low nature-worship of the old Egyptian 
religion, and perhaps, as far as it is picture-writing, of 
the hieroglyphic system, of which the characters are 
sometimes called Ethiopic letters by ancient writers. 

'l’lie history of Ethiopia is closely interwoven with 
that of Egypt. The two countries were not unfre- 
quently united under the rule of the same sovereign. 
The first Egyptian king who governed Ethiopia was 
one of the 12lh dynasty, named Osirtasen I, the Se- 
sostris of Herod, ii, 110. During the occupation of 
Egypt by the Ilyksos, the 13th dynasty retired to the 
Ethiopian capital, Napata ; and again we find the 
kings of the 18th and 10th dynasties exercising a su- 
premacy over Ethiopia, and erecting numerous tem- 
ples, tlie ruins of which still exist at Semneh, Amada, 
Soleh, Abusiinbel, and Jebel Berkel. The tradition of 
the successful expedition of Moses against the Ethio- 
pians, recorded by Josephus (Ant. ii, 10), was doubtless 
founded on the general superiority of the Egyptians at 
that period of their history. 

Lnder the 12th dynasty we find the first materials , 


for a history of Ethiopia. In these days Nubia seems 
to have been thoroughly Egyptianized as far as be- 
yond the Second Cataract, but we have no indication 
of the existence at that time in Ethiopia of any race 
but the Egyptian. We find an allusion to the negroes 
in the time between the 12th dynasty and the 18th, in 
the name of a king of that period, which reads Ra?- 
Neiisi, or “the Sun? of the Negroes,” rather than 
“the Negro Sun ?” (Turin Papyrus of Kings, ap. Lep- 
sius Kbnigsbuch , pi. xviii, 197 ; xix, 278). The word 
Neiisi is the constant designation of the negro race 
in hieroglyphics. 

Before passing to the beginning of the 18th dynas- 
ty, when the Egyptian empire definitely commenced 
[see Egypt], we may notice two possible references to 
tbe Ethiopians in connection with the Exodus, an 
event which probably occurred at an early period of 
that empire. In Isa. xliii, which, though relating to 
the future, also speaks of the past, and especially men- 
tions or alludes to the passage of the Red Sea (see par- 
ticularly ver. 1G, 17), Ethiopia is thus apparently con- 
nected with the Exodus: “I gave Egypt [for] thy 
ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee” (ver. 3). It can 
scarcely be supposed that this is an emphatic relation 
of future events, and it is difficult to connect it with 
any other known past event, as the conquest of Egypt 
by Sennacherib, which may have already occurred. 
If this passage refer to the Exodus, it would seem to 
favor the idea that the Israelites went out during the 
empire, for then Ethiopia was ruled by Egypt, and 
would have been injured by the calamities that befel 
that country. In Amos there is a passage that may 
possibly connect the Ethiopians with tbe Exodus: 
“[Are] ye not as children of the Ethiopians unto me, 
O childien of Israel? saith the Lord. Have not I 
brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt? and the 
Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?” 
(ix, 7). But the meaning may be that the Israelites 
were no better than the idolatrous people of Cush. 

At the beginning of the 18th dynasty we find the 
Egyptians making expeditions into Ethiopia, no doubt 
into its farther regions, and bringing hack slaves. At 
this time tbe Egyptians seem to have intermarried 
with people of Ethiopia, probably of the intermediate 
race, darker than the Egyptians, but not of the negro 
race. One of the wives of Aahmes, or Amosis, the 
first king of the 18th dynasty, is represented as black, 
though not with negro features. A later sovereign 
of the same dynasty, Anienoph III, is seen by his stat- 
ues to have been partly Ethiopian, and this may have 
been one cause of his identification by the Greeks with 
Memnon. During this and the dynasty which suc- 
ceeded it, the 19tli, we have no proof that the regu- 
larly-governed Egyptian dominions extended beyond 
Napata, but it is probable that they reached a little be- 
yond the junction of the White and Blue Niles. There 
can be no doubt that Ethiopia remained subject to 
Egypt as late as the reign of Ramoses VI, soon after 
whom the proper Egyptian empire may be said to have 
I closed, having lasted three centuries from the begin- 
ning of the 18th dynasty. Under that empire, Ethio- 
pia, or at least the civilized portion, was ruled by a gov- 
ernor, who bore the title Sutex-sa-kn-kTsh, “Prince,” 
literally “Royal sou,” “of Cush,” etc. The office does 
not seem to have been hereditary at any time, nor is 
it known to have been held by a son of the reigning 
king, or any member of the royal family. 

After the reign of Ramoses VI, the feebleness of the 
later Theban kings may have led to the loss of Ethio- 
pia, and we know that in Solomon’s time there was a 
kingdom of Seba. Shishak, tbe first king of the 22d 
dynasty, probably made Ethiopia tributary. When 
this king, the SheHionk I of the monuments, invaded 
the kingdom of Judah, he had in his army “the Ln- 
bim, the Sukkiim, and the Cushim” (2 Chron. xii, 13). 
The Lubim are a people of Northern Africa, near 
Egypt, and the Sukkiim are of doubtful place. The 


ETHIOPIA 


329 


ETHIOPIA 


indications are of an extensive dominion in Africa; 
for. though the Lubim and Sukkiim may have been 
mercenaries, it is unlikely that the Cushim were also. 
There can be no doubt that Shisliak was a powerful 
king, especially as he was strong enough to invade Ju- 
dah, and it is therefore probable that he restored the 
influence of the Egyptians in Ethiopia. See Siiisiiak. 
Zerah the Ethiopian, on account of his army being of 
Cushim and Lubim, and thus, as well as in consisting 
of chariots, horsemen, and foot, of like composition with 
that of Shisliak (2 Chron. xvi, 8 ; xiv, 9, 12, 13 ; xii, 2, 
3), seems certainly to have been either a king of this 
dynasty, or else a general of such a king. In the for- 
mer case he would probably correspond to Osorkon II. 
The names Osorkon and Zerah seem very remote, bnt 
it must be remembered that Egyptian words tran- 
scribed in Hebrew are often much changed, and that 
in this case it is probable that both Egyptian and He- 
brew forms, if they be two orthographie.il representa- 
tions of one word, come from a third source. The 
style “Zerah the Cushite” is unlike that applied to 
kings of Egypt who were foreigners, or of foreign ex- 
traction, as in the cases of u So, king of Egypt,” and 
“ Shishak, king of Egypt.” On this aecouut, and es- 
pecially from the omission of the word king, or any 
royal appellation, though we cannot infer positively 
from the few instances in Scripture, Zerah may be 
rather supposed to have been a general, but the army 
that he commanded must, from the resemblance of its 
composition to that of Shishak’s, have been that of a 
king of the same line. Mr. Kenriek rather too hastily 
remarks as to the term Cushite, that “no king of the 
Bubastite [22d] dynasty could have been so designa- 
ted,” and is at some pains to explain what he consid- 
ers to be a mistake ( Ancient Egypt, ii, 297 sq.). It is 
recorded that Asa had an army of 580,000, and that 
Zerah the Ethiopian came against him with 1,000,000, 
and 300 chariots. These high numbers have been ob- 
jected to ; but the history of our times shows that war 
upon this large scale is not alone possible to great 
kingdoms, but also to states of no very large popula- 
tion which put forth their whole strength. It is to be 
noticed that Asa was evidently struck by the great- 
ness of the hostile army, to which the prophet Hanani 
alludes, reproving him at a later time (2 Chron. xvi, 
8). See Number. Asa encountered Zerah “in the 
valley of Zephathah at Mareshah,” and, praying for 
God's aid against this huge army, it was put to the 
rout, and he pursued it to Gerar, and smote all the 
cities round Gerar, which seem to have been in alli- 
ance with the invaders, and took much spoil from the 
cities, and also smote the tents of cattle, from which 
lie took many sheep and camels (xiv, 8-15). This 
great overthrow may have been a main cause of the 
decline of the power of the 22d dynasty, which proba- 
bly owed its importance to the successes of Shishak. 
See Zerah. 

During the later period of this dynasty, it is proba- 
ble that Ethiopia became wholly independent. The 
23d dynast}’ - appears to have been an Egyptian line of 
little power. The 21th, according to Manetho, of but 
one king, Boechoris the Saite, was probabl} 1 - contem- 
porary with it. In the time of Boechoris, Egypt was 
conquered by Sabaeo the Ethiopian, who founded the 
25th dynasty of Ethiopian kings. The chronology 
and history of this line is obscure. We take Mane- 
tho’s list for the chronology, with a few necessary cor- 
rections in the length of the reigns, in the following 
table [see Egypt] : 


The miration here given to the first and second 
reigns can only be considered to be conjectural. He- 
rodotus assigns 50 years as the duration of the Ethio- 
pian dominion in Egypt (ii, 137, 139), and as he lived 
at no great distance from the time, and is to be de- 
pended upon for the chronology of the next dynasty, 
we should lay some stress upon his evidence did he not 
speak of but one Ethiopian king, Sabacos. Perhaps 
he includes in this single reign that of Tirhakali, aud 
omits that of the first Sabacos. There are two He- 
brew synchronisms and one Egyptian point of evidence 
which aid ns in endeavoring to fix the chronology of 
this dynasty. Either the first or second king of the 
dynasty is supposed to be the So of the Ilible, with 
whom lloshea, who began to reign B.C. 729-8, made a 
treaty at least three years before the taking of Sama- 
ria : the latter event is fixed at B.C. 720 ; therefore 
one of these two Ethiopians was probably reigning in 
B.C. 723, or somewhat, perhaps seven years, earlier. 
See So. Nor is it supposable that the treaty may 
have been made before the conquest of Egypt ; for So 
is expressly called “ king of Egypt” (2 Kings xvii, 4), 
whereas Zerah and Tirhakali are distinctively styled 
Cushites (2 Chron. xiv, 9; 2 Kings xix, 9). Tirlia- 
kah was contemporary with Ilezekiah and Senna- 
cherib at the time of the destruction of the Assyrian 
army. The chronology of Ilezekiah’s reign is, with 
respect to these synchronisms, difficult; but we are 
disposed to think that the common reckoning, varying 
not more than three years, is correct, and that the 
preferable date of the accession of Hezekiah is B.C. 
726. Some chronologers follow Dr. Oppert in suppos- 
ing that the date of Sennacherib's invasion should lie 
Hezekiah’s 24th year instead of the 14th year (Chro- 
nologle des A ssyriens et des Babyluniens , p. 14, 15), but we 
rather infer a long interval between two wars. See 
Hezekiah. The last year of Hezekiah is thus B.C. 
697, unless we suppose that his reign was longer than 
is stated in the Masoretic text, and that it was for the 
latter part contemporary with Manasseh’s. Tirliakah’s 
reign is nearly determined by the record in a tablet of 
the tombs of the Bulls Apis, that one of them was born 
in his twenty-sixth year, and died at the end of the 
20th of Psammetichus I. The length of its life is un- 
fortunately not stated, but it exceeded twenty years, 
and the longest age recorded is twenty-six. Suppos- 
ing it to have lived twenty-one years, the first } r ear of 
Tirhakah’s reign would fall in B.C. G90 (see Rawlin- 
son’s Ilerod . ii, 319, where the successor of Psammeti- 
chus is proved to date from B.C. 664), which would 
correspond to the 8th year of Manasseh. The contem- 
poraneousness of Tirhakali and Hezekiah can be ex- 
plained by one of two suppositions, either that Ileze- 
kiah’s reign exceeded twenty-nine years, or that Tir- 
hakah ruled in Ethiopia before coming to the throne 
of Egypt. It must be remembered that it cannot be 
proved that the reigns ofManetbo’s 25th dynasty form 
a series without any break, and also that the date of 
the taking of Samaria is considered fixed by the Assyr- 
ian scholars. At present, therefore, we cannot ven- 
ture on any changes. See Chronology. 

We do not know the cause of the rise of the 25th 
dynasty. Probably the first king already had an 
Ethiopian sovereignty when lie invaded Egypt. That 
he and his successors were natives of Ethiopia is prob- 
able from their being kings of Ethiopia and having 
non-Egyptian names. Though Sabaeo conquered Boe- 
choris and put him to death, he does not seem to have 
overthrown his line or the 23d dynasty : both proba^ 


Table of tiif. twenty-fifth Dynasty. 


B.C. 

Monuments. 

Manetho. 

Highest Date on 
Monuments. 

Biblical Events. 

723 

716 

600 

664 

Shebek. 

SlIEBETEK, Or SllEBEK 11. 
Teharka, or Teurak. 

End of Dynasty. 

Years. 

Africnnus. Eusebius. Corrected. 
Sabaeo ... 8 12 12 

Sebichos.. 14 12 26 

Tiirkus... 13 20 26 

12 th year. 

26th year. 

Treaty with lloshea, B.C 724. 

AVar with Sennacherib, B.C. 713. 


ETHIOPIA 


330 


ETHIOPIA 


Mv continued in a tributary or titular position, as the 
fcethos of Herodotus, an Egyptian king of the time of 
Tirhakah, appears to be the same as Zct, who, in the 
version of Manetho by Africanus, is the last king of 
the 23d dynasty, and as kings connected with Psam- 
mcticlnis 1 of the Suite 2Gth dynasty are shown by the 
monuments to have preceded him in the time of the 
Ethiopians, and probably to have continued the line 
of the Suite Hocchoris. We think it probable that 
Sabaco is the “ So, king of Egypt,” who was the cause 
of the downfall of lloshea, the last king of Israel. 
The Hebrew name 55“ 0, if we omit the Masoretic 
points, is not very remote from the Egyptian Shebek. 
It was at this time that Egypt began strongly to in- 
fluence the politics of the Hebrew' kingdoms, and the 
prophecies of Hosca, denouncing an Egyptian alliance, 
probably refer to the reign of So or his successor; 
those of Isaiah, of similar purport, if his book be in 
chronological order, relate to the reign of Tirhakah. 
Tirhakah is far more full}’ commemorated by monu- 
ments than his predecessors. At Thebes he has left 
sculptures, and at Jebel-Berkel,Napato, one temple and 
part of another. There seems to be no doubt that Se- 
thos (Zct?) was at least titular king of part of Egypt, 
or the whole country, under Tirhakah, on the follow- 
ing evidence: In the Bible, Tirhakah, when mention- 
ed by name, is called “king of Cush (Ethiopia),” and 
a Pharaoh is spoken of at the same period (Isa. xxx, 
2, 3; xxxvi, G ; 2 Kings xviii, 21); in the Assyrian 
inscriptions a Pharaoh is mentioned as contemporary 
with Sennacherib; and the Egyptian monuments indi- 
cate that tw r o or three royal lines centred in that of 
the 2Gth dynasty. The only event of Tirhakah's reign 
certainly known to us is his advance against Senna- 
cherib, apparently in fulfilment of a treaty made by 
Hezekiah with the Pharaoh whom we suppose to be 
Sethos. This expedition was rendered needless by 
the miraculous destruction of the Assyrian army, but 
it is probable that Tirhakah seized the occasion to re- 
cover some of the cities of Palestine w hich had before 
belonged to Egypt. Herodotus gives a traditional ac- 
count of Sennacherib’s overthrow’, relating that when 
Egypt was ruled by Sethos, a priest-king, the country 
was invaded by Sennacherib, against whom Sethos, 
W’lio had offended the military class, marched with an 
army of artificers and the like, and encamped near Pe- 
lusium, where in the night a multitude of field-mice 
gnawed the bow-strings and shield-straps of the As- 
syrians, who, being thus unable to defend themselves, 
took to flight (ii, 141). It has been well observed that 
it is said by llorapollo that a mouse denoted “disap- 
pearance” in hieroglyphics (IJiejyg. i, 50). Here we 
have evidently a confused tradition of the great over- 
throw’ of the Assyrians. Strabo, on the authority of 
jNlegasthenes, tells us that Tirhakah, in his extensive 
expeditions, rivalled Sesostris, and went as far as the 
Pillars of Hercules (xv, G8G). 

The beginning of the 2Gtli dynasty was a time of 
disaster to Egypt. Tirhakah was either dead or had 
retired to Ethiopia, and Egypt fell into the hands of 
several petty princes, probably the dodeearehs of He- 
rodotus, whose rule precedes, and perhaps overlaps, 
that of Psammetichus 1, who is said to have been at 
first a dodeearch. In this time Esarhnddon twice in- 
vaded and conquered the country; but, after bis sec- 
ond invasion, Psammetichus seems to have entirely 
thrown off the Assyrian yoke, and restored Egypt to 
somewhat of its ancient power. There are several 
passages in Scripture which probably refer to these 
invasions, and certainly show’ the relation of Ethiopia 
to Egypt at this time. The prophet Nahum, warning 
Nineveh, describes the fall of Thebes, “ Art thou bet- 
ter than No Anion, that was situate among the. rivers, 
[that had] the waters round about it, whose rampart 
[was] the sea, [and] her wall from the sea? Cush 
and Mizraim [were her] strength, and [it w r as] infi- 


nite ; Put and Lubim were in thy help” (iii, 8, 9). The 
sack and captivity of the city arc then related. 4 he 
exact period of Nahum is not known, but there is much 
probability that lie lived about the time of the inva- 
sion of Judiea by Sennacherib (i, 11, 12). See Na- 
hum. He therefore appears to refer to one of the con- 
quests of Egypt by Sennacherib, Sargon, or Shalma- 
neser. See No. The close alliance of Cush and Miz- 
raim seems to point to the period of the Ethiopian 
rule, when the states would have united against a com- 
mon enemy. Three chapters of Isaiah relate to the 
future of Ethiopia and Egypt, and it is probable that 
they contain what is virtually one connected subject, 
although divided into a prophecy against Ethiopia, the 
burden of Egypt, and the record of an event shown 
to prefigure the fall of both countries, these divisions 
having been followed by those who separated the book 
into chapters. The prophecy against Ethiopia is ex- 
tremely obscure. (See the version above.) It appears 
to foretell the calamity of Ethiopia to its farthest peo- 
ple, to whom messengers should be sent in vessels of 
papyrus, by the sea, here the Nile, as in the descrip- 
tion of Thebes by the prophet Nahum (/. e.), bearing, 
probably, that news which is related in the next chap- 
ter. In the end the Ethiopians would send a present 
i to the Lord at Zion (chap, xviii). Then follows “ the 
burden of Egypt,” apparently foretelling the discord 
and strife of t he dodecarchv, the delivering of the peo- 
ple into the hand of a cruel lord, probably the Assyr- 
ian conqueror, the failure of the vraters of Egypt and 
of its chief sources of revenue, and the partial conver- 
sion of the Egyptians, and, as it seems, their ultimate 
admission to the Church (chap. xix). We then read 
how a Tartan, or general, of Sargon, the king of As- 
syria, took Ashdod, no doubt with a garrison from the 
Egyptian army. At this time Isaiah was command- 
ed to walk “ naked and barefoot,” probably without an 
1 outer garment, three years, as a sign to show how the 
Egyptians and Ethiopians, as no doubt had been the 
case with the garrison of Ashdod, probably of both na- 
tions, should be led captive by the king of Assyria. 

I This captivity was to be w itnessed by the Jews who 
trusted in Ethiopia and Egypt to be delivered from the 
king of Assyria, and the invasions of Egypt by Esar- 
j liaddon are therefore probably foretold (chap. xx). In 
the books of later prophets Ethiopia does not take this 
prominent place : no longer a great power, it only ap- 
pears as furnishing part of the Egyptian forces or 
sharing the calamities of Egypt, as in the history of 
Egypt w T e find Ethiopia occupying a position of little 
or no political importance, the successors of Tirhakah 
in that country being perhaps tributaries of the kings 
of the 2Gth dynasty. In the description by Jeremiah 
of Pharaoli-Nceho's army, the Ethiopians (Cush) arc 
first spoken of among the foreign warriors mentioned 
as serving in it (xlvi, 9). Ezekiel prophecies the fear 
of Ethiopia at the overthrow’ of Egypt by Nebuchad- 
nezzar (xxx, 4-9), and though the helpers of Egypt 
were to fall, it does not seem that the invasion of their 
lands is necessarily to be understood. One passage 
illustrates the difficult 18th chapter of Isaiah: “In 
that day shall messengers go forth from me in ships 
to make [“secure” or] careless Ethiopia afraid, and 
great pain shall come upon them as in the day of 
Egypt” (Ezek. xxx, 9). Zophaniah, somewhat ear- 
lier, mentions the Ethiopians alone, predicting their 
overthrow’ (ii, 12). It is probable that the defeat of 
the Egyptian army at Carchemish by Nebuchadnezzar 
is referred to, or else the same king’s invasion of 
Egypt. 

The kings of Egypt do not appear to have regained 
the absolute rule of Ethiopia, or to have displaced the 
native kings, though it is probable that they made 
them tributary. .Under rsanimetichus J a revolt oe- 
, curred in the Egyptian army, and a large body of reb- 
els fled to Ethiopia, and there established themselves. 
A Greek inscription on one of the colossi of the great 


ETHIOPIA 


331 


ETHIOPIA 


temple of Abu-Simbil, not far below the Second Cata- 
ract, records the passage of Greek mercenaries on their 
return from an expedition up the river, “king 1'sam- 
atichus” having, as it seems, not gone beyond Ele- 
phantine. This expedition was probably that which 
llerodotus mentions Psainmetiehus as having made in 
order to bring back the rebels (ii, 80), and, in any case, 
the inscription is valuable as the only record of the 
2Gth dynasty which has been found above the First 
Cataract. It does not prove, more especially as the 
king remained at Elephantine, that he governed any 
part of Ethiopia. The next event of Ethiopian his- 
tory is the disastrous expedition of Cambyses, defeat- 
ed by the desert-march, and not by any valor of the 
invaded nation. From this time the country seems to 
have enjoyed tranquillity, until the earlier Ptolemies 
acquired part of Lower Nubia that was again lost to 
them in the decline of their dynasty. When Egypt 
became a Roman province, Syene was its frontier town 
to the south ; but when, under Augustus, the garrison 
of that town had been overwhelmed by the Ethiopi- 
ans, the pnefect Petronius invaded Ethiopia, and took 
Napata, said to have been the capital of queen Can- 
dace. The extensive territory subdued was not held, 
and though the names of some of the Cmsars are found 
in the temples of Lower Nubia, in Strabo’s time Syene 
marked the frontier. This part of Ethiopia must have 
been so unproductive, even before the falling of the 
level of the Nile, which Sir Gardner Wilkinson sup- 
poses to have happened between the early part of the 
13th dynasty and the beginning of the 18th, that it 
may well have been regarded as a kind of neutral 
ground. 

The chronology of the kings of Ethiopia after Tir- 
hakah cannot yet be attempted. Professor Lepsius 
arranges all the Ethiopians under four periods : 1st. 
The 25th dynasty, first and second kings. 2d. Kings 
of Napata, beginning with Tirhakah, who, in liis opin- 
ion, retired from E rypt, and made this his capital : of 
these kings, one, named Nastes-ses, or Nastes-nen, 
has left a tablet at Dongolali, recording the taking in 
his wars of enormous booty in cattle and gold (Lep- 
sius, Denkmiiler , v, 1G ; Brugsch, Geogr . Irnchr. i, 163, 
164). 3d. Older kings of Meroe, among whom is a 

queen Kentahi, in whom a Candace is immediately 
recognised, and also Mi- Amen Asru and Arkamen, 
the latter Ergamenes, the contemporary of Ptolemy 
Philadelphus, who had, according to Diodorus Siculus, 
received a Greek training, and chauged the customs 
of Ethiopia (iii, G). Some of these princes had an ex- 
tensive dominion. The name of Ergamenes is found 
from Lower Nubia to Meroe. ‘ 4th. Later kings of Me- 
roe, some, at least, of whom ruled both Meroe and Na- 
pata, though the former seems to have been the favor- 
ite capital in the later period ( Kdnigsbuch , pi. lxxi, 
lxxii, lxxiii). The importance of queens is remarka- 
bly characteristic of an African people. See Meroe. 

The spread of Christianity in Ethiopia is a remark- 
able event in the history of the country, and one in 
which the truth of “ the sure word of prophecy” has 
been especially evident. In this case, as in others, 
the Law may have been the predecessor of the Gospel. 
The pious eunuch, “ Ebed-melech the Ethiopian,” who 
befriended Jeremiah (xxxviii, 7-13; xxxix, 15-18), 
may have been one of many converts from pagan- 
ism, but it is scarcely likely that any of these returned 
to their native land. The Abyssinian Jews, being 
probably a colony of those of Arabia, were perhaps of 
later origin than the time of the introduction of Chris- 
tianity. But in the case of the Ethiopian eunuch, who 
had charge of all the treasure of Candace, queen of the 
Ethiopians, and who, on his return from worshipping 
atr Jerusalem, was baptized by Philip the deacon, we 
see evidence of the spread of the old dispensation in 
Ethiopia, and of the reception there of the new (Acts 
viii, 27-39). In Psalm lxviii (31), in Isaiah (xlv, 14), 
and probably in Zepbaniah (iii, 10), the calling of Ethi- 


opia to God’s service is foretold. Whether conversion 
to the Law or to Christianity, or indeed to both, is in- 
tended, it is remarkable that, though long deprived of 
its actual geographical contact with the Coptic Church, 
of which it is a branch, by the falling away of Nubia, 
the Abyssinian Church yet remains, and the empire 
and the kingdom of Slioa are the only Christian sov- 
ereignties in the whole of Africa. See Abyssinian 
Church. 

The ancient monuments of Ethiopia may be sepa- 
rated into two great classes, the Egyptian and the 
Egypto-Kthiopian. In Lower Nubia the Egyptian are 
almost universal ; at Napat i we find Egvpto-Ethio- 
pian, as well as higher up in the island of Meroe. In 
the monuments north of Napata, of which the chief lie 
between the first and second cataracts, we perceive no 
difference from those of Egypt save in the occurrence 
of the names of two Ethiopian kings — Arkamen, or 
Ergamenes, and Atsiieramen. The remains attest 
the wealth of the kings of Egypt rather than that of 
the country in which they are found ; their abundance 
is partly owing to the scanty modern population’s not 
having required the ancient masonry for building ma- 
terials. The nearness of the mountains on either side 
to the river, and the value of the little tracts of allu- 
vial soil, have rendered wholly or partly rock-hewn 
temples numerous here. Tombs are few and unim- 
portant. Above the second cataract there are some 
similar remains, until the traveller reaches Jebel Ber- 
kel, the sacred mountain beneath which stood Napata, 
where, besides the remains of temples, he is struck 
with the sight of many pyramids. Other pyramids 
are seen in the neighborhood. They are peculiar in 
construction, the proportion of the height to the base 
being much greater than in the pyramids of Egypt. 

! The temples are of Egyptian character, and one of 
! them is wholly, and another partly, of the reign of 
I Tirhakah. The pyramids are later, and are thorough- 
| ly Ethiopian. Yet higher up the river are the monu- 
; ments of Meroe and neighboring places. They are 
j pyramids, like those of Napata, and temples, with other 
buildings, of a more Ethiopian style than the temples 
! of the other capital. The size and importance of these 
( monuments prove that the sovereigns who ruled at 
Meroe must have been very rich, if not warlike. The 
farthest vestiges of*ancient civilization that have been 
found are remains of an Egyptian character at Sobali, 
on the Blue Nile, not far south of the junction of the 
two rivers. The name suggests the Biblical Seba, 
which, as a kingdom, may correspond to that of Me- 
roe ; but such resemblances are dangerous. The ten- 
dency of Ethiopian art was to imitate the earliest 
Egyptian forms of building, and even subjects of 
sculpture. This is plain in the adoption of pyramids. 
The same feeling is strongly evident in Egypt under 
the 2Gth dynasty, when there was a renaissance of the 
style of the pyramid period, though no pyramids seein 
to have been built. This renaissance appears to have 
begun uuder, or immediately after, the later part of 
the 25th dynasty, and is seen in the subjects of sculp- 
, ture and the use of titles. The monuments of Ethio- 
pian princes, at first as good as those of Egypt at the 
same time, become rapidly inferior, and at last are ex- 
tremely barbarous, more so than any of Egypt. 4 he 
use of hieroglyphics continues to the last for royal 
names, but the language seems, after the earlier pe- 
riod, to have been little understood. An Ethiopian 
j demotic character lifts been found of the period, which 
' succeeded the hieroglyphic for common use, and even 
for some inscriptions. We do not offer any opinion 
on the language of this character. The subject re- 
| quires full investigation. The early Abyssinian re, 
1 mains, as the obelisk at Axum, do not seem to have 
any connection with those of more northern Ethiopia : 
they are of later times, and probably are of Arab ori- 
I gin. Throughout Ethiopia we find no traces of an 
J original art or civilization, all the ancient monuments} 


ETHIOPIAN 


332 


ETHIOPIC LANGUAGE 


save those of Abyssinia, which can scarcely be called 
ancient, showing that the country was thoroughly 
Egypt ianized. Lepsius has published the Ethiopian 
monuments in his Denhndler (pt. v; pi. 1-75), as well 
as the inscriptions in Ethiopian demotic (pt. vi ; pi. 
1-11 ; see also 12, 13). — Kitto, s. v. 

For the Christian history and relations of Ethiopia, 
see Titelmann, De fide , religione et moribus yEthiopum 
(Antwerp, 1534) ; l)e Goes, id. (Par. 1541, and since) ; 
Dresser, De statu cedes. yEthiopicce (Lips. 1584) ; De Ye- 
reta, I listeria de Etiopia (Yaleutia, 1500) ; Prcdicctdires 
en la Utopia (ib. 1011) ; Godiger, De rebus Abassiuorum 
(Lugd. 1615); Machult, De rebus in y Ethiopia (Paris, 
1G24-G); Da Yiega, Christ, religio in + Ethiopia (Lans. 
1G28) ; Dannhauer, Ecelesia sEthiopica (Argent. 1G64) ; 
Ludolf, Uistoria sEthiopica (Fr. ad M. 1G81 ; with the 
supplemental Specimen, ib. 1G87; Comment anus, ib. 
1G91 ; and Adpendix, ib. 1G93; the original work in 
English, Loud. 1G84 ; abridged in French, Par. 1G84); 
Cavatus, Descriptio Congo, Matambe et Angola (Bonn, 
1G87); Geddes, Hist, of Ethiopia (Lond. 1G9G); "Wind- 
ham, Einleitnng in d. dtkiop. Theologie (Helmst. 1719) ; 
Lobo, Iter hist, in Abyssiniam (publ. only in a transl. 
Relation historique d' Abyssinie, Par. 1727, Amst. 1728) ; 
La Croze, Christianisme d'Etkiopie (Hague, 1739, in 
Germ. 1740) ; Oertel, Theologia yEthiopum (Wittemb. 
174G) ; Kocker, Fasti Ilabissinorvm (Berne, f7G0) ; 
Bruce, Travels in Abyssinia (Edinb. 1790). See Abys- 
sinia. 

Ethio'pian (A iSioxp, Acts viii, 27 ; "TO 3, Kushi , 
Num. xii, 1; 2 Cliron. xii, 3; xiv, 9, 12, 13; xvi, 8; 
xxi, 1G ; Jer. xiii, 23; xxxviii, 7,10, 12; xxxix, 1G; 
Dan. xi, 43; Amos ix, 7 ; Zeph. ii, 12; i. e. Cushite; 
elsewhere as a rendering of the simple uto, Kush ), an 
inhabitant of the land of Ethiopia (q. v.) or Cusii : 
properly “Cushite” (Jer. xiii, 23); used of Zerah (2 
Chron. xiv, 9 [8]) and Ebedmelech (Jer. xxxviii, 7, 
10, 12 ; xxxix, 1G). See also Cusm. 

ETHIOPIAN EUNUCH (avijp A/Sco^, djvov X og), 
a person described (Acts viii, 27) as a chief officer (vi- 
zier) of the Ethiopian queen Candacb ( cvvdaTjjg K av- 
CetKijg rtjc (3cim\io<7r]C A ISiottiov), who was converted 
to Christianity through the instrumentality of the 
evangelist Philip (q. v.). Ethiopic tradition calls him 
Irtdich (see Bzovii Annal. ad 1524, p. 542; but comp. 
Ludolf, IHst. uEth. iii, 2), and Irenrcus (iii, 12) and 
Eusebius (/list. Eccl. ii, 1) make him the founder of 
Christianity in Arabia Felix and Ethiopia, but accord- 
ing to Sophronius he preached in the island of Ceylon, 
and suffered martyrdom there. His official title does 
not necessarily indicate an emasculated person [see 
Eunuch], but probably here denotes a prime minister 
of state rather than a simple cubicularius or chamber- 
lain (q. v.). Ivuinol (ad loe.) thinks lie was a Jew of 
the Diaspora ; and certainly he was at least a prose- 
lyte (q. v.). As to the place of his power, it is not 
quite certain that the passage in Pliny (Hist. Xat. vi, 
5) refers to Meroe as the seat of government of the fe- 
male sovereigns (comp. ftaaiAsag, Strabo, xvii, 2, 3) ; 
but possibly rather to Napata (T«u« 7 n/, Dion Cass, 
liv, 5 ), the capital of a different part of Ethiopia (Baw- 
1 in son, Herodotus, ii, 35), or perhaps an uncertain lo- 
cality (Bitter, Erdlc. i, 592). On the historical ele- 
ments of the question, see Laurent, Xeutestamen. Slu- 
dirn (Gotha, 18GG), p. 140 sq. ; Bibliotheca Sacra, Julv, 
18GG, p. 515 ; on the religions teachings of the narra- 
tive, see Sam. Smith, Sermon on the Etk. Eunuch's Con- 
version (Loud. 1G32). See Candace. 

ETHIOPIAN WOMAN (Heb. Kushith', rTO3, 
fern, of Cushite; Sept. AiBiOTitaaa, Yulis. sEthiopissci). 
Zipporali, the wife of Moses, is so described in Num. 
xii, 1. She is elsewhere said to have been the daugh- 
ter ofaMidianite (Exod. ii, 21, compared with 16), and, 
in consequence of this, Ewald and others Jiave sup- 
posed that the allusion is to another wife whom Moses | 


married after the death of Zipporah ; but the Arabian 
Ethiopia is probably referred to in this case. See Zir- 

POIIAII. 

ETHIOPIANS (13*13, Isa. xx, 4; Jer. xlvi, 9, 
^3 ; Sept. AiOiorreg, Vulg. s. Ethiopia , yEthiopes ), 
properly “Cush” or “ Ethiopia” in two passages (Isa. 
xx, 4 ; Jer. xlvi, 9) ; elsewhere “ Cushites,” or inhab- 
itants of Ethiopia (2 Chron. xii, 3 ; xiv, 12 [11], 13 
[12] ; xvi, 8 ; xxi, 1G ; Dan. xi, 43 ; Amos ix, 7 ; Zeph. 
ii, 12). See Cushite. 

Ethiopic Language. As it is maintained by 
competent judges that the Amharic and the Tigrc are 
really dialects of the ancient Ethiopic or Geez (which 
is doubted by Adelung and Yater in the Mithridates), 
it may be expected, from the recent progress of com- 
parative grammar, that future scholars will apply them 
to elucidate the structure of the other Svro-Arabian 
languages. At present, however, as even the Amha- 
ric is not yet able to boast of adequate and accessible 
means for its study, and as neither possesses any an- 
cient version of any part of the Bible, the Geez i*s the 
only one which claims a particular notice here. See 
Amharic Language. 

The ancient Ethiopic or Geez, which is the only one 
of the three dialects that either has been or is now 
generally used in written documents of a sacred or 
civil kind, is to be classed as an ancient branch of the 
Arabic. This affinity is evident from the entire gram- 
matical structure of the language ; it is confirmed by 
the relation of its written character to that of the Him- 
yarite alphabet ; and either supports, or is supported 
by, the assumption that Ilabesh or Abyssinia was act- 
ually peopled by a colony from Southern Arahia. The 
grammatical structure of the Geez shows a largely 
predominant identity with that of Arabic; but it also 
possesses some traits which are in closer accordance 
with the other Svro-Arabian idioms, and some which 
are peculiar to itself alone. The main features of its 
structure are as follows : The verb possesses the first 
ten conjugations of the Arabic verb, with the excep- 
tion of the eighth and ninth ; besides these it lias two 
other conjugations which are unknown to the Arabic. 
There is a special conjunctive mood; the double infin- 
itive is often used as a noun, irrespective of the abso- 
lute or construct form ; the participle is wanting. The 
formation of nouns resembles most that of Hebrew; 
but nouns often have superfluous end-vowels, which 
are modified in particular cases, and are analogous to 
the Arabic nunnation. As for the flexion of nouns, 
the masculine and feminine plurals are either formed 
by affixed syllables (an, at) on the principle common 
to the whole Syro-Arabian family, or by' changes with- 
in the compass of the radical letters, after the manner 
of the so-called broken plurals of the Arabic grammar. 
The “construct state,” and that relation of the noun 
which is equivalent to our objective case, are denoted 
by changes in the final vowels, or by employing the 
relative pronoun ; the dative is indicated by preposi- 
tions. The comparative and superlative are expressed 
by means of particles. There is no form for the dual 
number either in the verb or the noun. With regard 
to the vocabulary of the language, one third of the 
roots are to be found in the same state in Arabic. By 
making allowance for com imitations and transposi- 
tions, many other roots may be identified with their 
Arabic correspondents : some of its roots, however, do 
not exist in our present Arabic, but are to be found in 
Aramaic and Hebrew. Besides this, it has native roots 
peculiar to itself; it has adopted several Greek words, 
but shows no traces of the influence of Coptic. 

The alphabet possesses twenty-six consonants, ar- 
ranged in a peculiar order, twenty-four of which may, 
however, be regarded as essentially equivalent (al- 
though with different sounds in many instances) to the 
letters in the Arabic alphabet. The remaining two 
are letters adopted to express the Greek and >2r. 


ETIIIOPIC LANGUAGE 


333 


ETHIOPIC LANGUAGE 


ETIIIOPIC ALPHABET. 


Name. 

■With a 

With d 

With e 

With e 

With l 

With 6 

With u 

Power. 1 

Heh. 

Iloi 

U ha 

y 

ha 

u 

ho 

1 1 

h6 

y 

hi 

\y 

ho 

u- 

hu 

h 

n 

Lawi 

A la 

\ 

la 

A 

le 

A 

le 

A 

li 

A° 

16 

A- 

lit 

l 

b 

Ilhaut 

ill hha 

<h 

hha 

rh 

hha 

fib 

hhO 

A: 

hhi 

ib 

hho 

ih- 

hhil 

hh 

n 

Mai 

(j^ ma 


ma 

<p 

me 


mo j 

<t\ 

ml 

<P 

mo 

Cr*' 

mu 

m 

•a 

£aut 

XU fa 

UI 

fit 

\« 

fG 

Ul 

fC j 

Ul 

fi 

ft 

f6 

UJ- 

ffi 

Q Fr. 

0 

Rees 

Z, ra 


ra 

c 

ro 

L 

re 

L 

li 

C 

ro 

4 

ru 

r 

"i 

Sat 

1*1 ea 

1*1 

Ell 

A 

sc 

1*L 

so 

ft 

si 

fi 

so 

ft 

su 

s 

to 

* Shat 

H Eha 

G 

saa 

■ft 

she 

ft 

she 

ft 

shi 

r; 

sho 

ft 

shft 

sll 

to 

Qaf 

<I> qa 

$ 

qa 


qo 

<1? 

qe 

•h 

Qi 

# 

qo 


qil 

q 

P 

Beth 

R la 

a 

ha 

•n 

be 

a 

ho 

ft 

hi 

0 

ho 

ft 

hii 

b 

n 

Thawi 

T tha 


tha 

•ft 

the 

■t 

thfi 

± 

thi 

i* 

tbo 

•p 

thil 

th 

n 

* Tjawi 

■T* <ia 

if 

tja 


tje 


tje 

T: 

tji 

¥ 

tjo 

¥- 

tjo 

tj 


Kharm 

T, l kha 

5 

kha 

■5 

khe 


khe 

\ 

khi 

•? 

kho 

•B 

khfi 

kh 

n 

N alias 

i na 

i 

na 


no 


n6 

l. 

ni 


no 

f- 

nu 

n 

2 

* Gnalias 

i gna 

r 

gnii 

? 

gno 

x 

gn6 

r. 

gni 

? 

gno 

r 

gnu 

gll Fr. 


’Alpli 

A 'a 

A 

'a 

A 

’o 

A, 

’6 

A 

’1 

h 

’6 

h- 

’a 

> 


Kaf 

l il ka 

1 a 

ka 

51 

ko 

hi 

k6 

l ft 

ki 

•P 

ko 

¥1- 

ku 

k 

D 

* Cliaf 

T tl cha 


cha 

■51 

clie 

”51 

ch6 

*51 

chi 

*S‘ 

cho 

•9P 

chu 

di Ger. 


Waive 

(D wa 

T 

wa 

©■ 

wo 


we 

<E 

wi 


wo 

di 

Wll 

W 


‘Ain 

U 'a 

4 

'a 


*0 


*6 


'i 


'6 

ft 

‘li 

c 

5? 

Zai 

H za 

U 

za 

*u 

ze 

ft 

z6 

H. 

zi 

H 

zo 

ft 

Zll 

Z 

T 

* Jai 

'H*ja 

'ft 

ja 

hr 

jo 

"ft 

jo 

K 

ji 

•ft 

j« 

IF 

jit 

j Fr - 


Jaman 

r ja 


ja 

p. 

je 

P<> 

j£ 

B. 

ji 

P- 

jd 

E 

jtt 

j Ger - 


Dent 

it* da 

•F 

da 

y 

do 

R 

d6 

y.. 

di 

J? 

do 

y. 

da 

d 

"I 

*Djent 

£ dja 

£ 

dja 

W 

dje 

£ 

dj6 

£ 

dji 

£ 

djo 

K 

dja 

dj 


Genii 

1 ga 

3 

ga 


ge 

2 

go 


gi 

*1 

go 

7- 


O* 

O 


Tait 

(11 ta 

<i\ 

ta 


to 

flL 

to 

in. 

ti 

ra 

to 

(li - 

ta 


•j 

* Tsliait 

lT)f tsha 

’nr 

tsha 

-VJV 

tshe 

ire 

tsho 

w. 

tshi 

Yiv 

tsho 

tn- 

tshu 

tsh 


Fait 

.A. pa 

A 

pi\ 

A 

pe 

A 

pe 

A. 

pi 

A 

po 

A 

P a j 

1 P 

D 

Tsaddai 

R tsa 

A 

tsa 

A" 

tse 

A 

ts6 

A 

tsi 

A 

tso 

A- 

tsa 

: ts 

2 

Dzappa 

G dza 

y 

dza 

0 

dze 

y 

dze 

y 

dzi 

{? 

dzo 

ft 

dza 1 

1 dz 

22 

Af 

4 fa 

4 

fa 

ft. 

fe 

A 

fe 

A 

fi 

A 

fo 

si 

fa j 

f 

(9>) 

Psa 

T pea 

T 

psa 

T 

pse 

T 

pse 

T 

psi 

T 

ps6 

T 

psa j 

ps 

l(^) 


DIPHTHONGS. 


*l l0 qua 

3? qua 

( 1 >S quo 

5? qu6 

qul 

khua 

'5, kliua 

khue 

khu6 

khui 

^1° kua 

kua 

I R 1 ' kue 

ku6 

W. kill 

f \° gua 

3, gua 

T* gue 

II gu6 

gui 


Separatrix of words. 
* Exclusively Araharic. 


ETHIOPIC VERSION 334 ETIIIOPIC VERSION 


The vowel-sounds, which are seven, are not expressed 
by separable signs, as in the Hebrew and Arabic punct- 
uation, but are denoted by modifications in the origi- 
nal form of the consonants, after the manner of the 
Devunagari alphabet. The mode of writing is from 
left to right. The position of the accent depends upon 
many complicated rules. As for the written charac- 
ters, Gesenius has traced the relation between some of 
them and their equivalents in the Phoenician alphabet. 
There is, however, the most striking resemblance be- 
tween the Geez letters generally and those in the 
Himvaritc inscriptions, a circumstance which accords 
well with the supposed connection of Southern Arabia 
and Ilabesh. Moreover, Lepsius, in an interesting es- 
say, Ueber (fe Anorclnnng und Yerwandschift des Scmi- 
tischen , Indisch n n , ZEtkiopischen , etc. Alphabets (in his 
Zicci sprachwryl: ichende Abhandlunyen , Berlin, 183G, 
8vo, p. 74-80), has adduced some striking arguments 
to prove that the Devanagari alphabet must have had 
some influence on the development of the Geez. 

The literature of the Geez language is very scanty 
indeed, and that little is almost exclusively of a Bibli- 
cal or ecclesiastical character. Dr. Laurence has late- 
ly added considerably to this by the publication of the 
Book of Enoch (q. v.), the Ascension 
of Isaiah (q. w), and the first Book 
of Esdras (q. v.), in the Etliiopic ver- 
sion. There also exist in Ethiopic the 
Christian Book of Adam (in Germ, 
by Dillmann, Gott. 1853), and several 
other apocryphal works relating the 
miracles of Christ, Mary, etc. It 
possesses nothing, not even an imi- 
tation of the national poetry, nor of 
the lexicographical and grammatical 
works of the Arabs. Some few his- 
torical works in the shape of chroni- 
cles, and a few medical treatises, con- 
stitute the main body of their profane 
literature. The Geez has ceased, 
ever since the beginning of the 14th 
century, to be the vernacular lan- 
guage of any part of the country, 
having l.e?n supplanted at the court 
of the sovereign by the Amharic. It 
still continues, however, to be the lan- 
guage used in religious rites, in do- 
mestic affairs of state, and in private 
correspondence. — Kitto, s. v. See 
Liulolf, Grammafica xEthiopica (*2d 
edit. Ercft. 1702, fol.), and bis Lexi- 
con xEthiopico-Lafinum (2d edit. ib. 

1099, fob, originally Loud. 1GG1, 4to) ; 

Ilisse, Prakt. Hdb. d. a rah. u. dthlop. Spj'ache (Jen. 
1793, 8vo); Hupfeld, Exejritt. JEthiopicoi (Lips. 182G, 
4 to); Gcseniiis, in Ersch und Gruber's Allyemeine En - 
cyclopad/e, s. v. Aetliiopisehe Sprache; Pilimann, Lex- 
icon Liny. . Ethinpicce (Lpz. 1SG2 sq., 4to) ; Chreslo- 
i noth-a Ethiopian (Lpz. 18G5, 8vo) ; Castell, Lexicon 
Jfeptaylottnm (Lond. 1GGD, fol.) ; Schrader, IJe Linynce 
yEth <p. indole (Vien. 18G0 sq., 4ti>). See Shemitic 
Languages. 

Ethiopic Version. The libraries of Europe con- 
tain some, although very rarely complete, manuscript 
copies of a translation of the Bible into the Geez dia- 
lect (see Lndolf, Wstoriii . Ethiopian, Lond. 1G84 : also 
Blatt's C(tt(tl>>y’ie oJ\Eth. MSS., London, 1823). This 
version of the Old Testament was made from the Greek 
of the Septuagint, according to the Alexandrian re- 
cension, as is evinced, among other things, by the ar- 
rangement of the Biblical hooks, and by the admission 
of the Apocrypha without distinction. Tradition as- 
signs it to l'nimentius as the author, but it probably 
proceeded from various Christian hands. I)oi*n sup- 
poses (Do Psrtftcno xEthiopicOy Lips. 1825) that the 
translator consulted the lleb. original, but this is dis- 
puted by Gcsenius and Rudiger (Allyem. Lift. Zeit. 


1832). It is divided into four parts : The Laic , or the 
Octateuch, containing the Pentateuch and the books 
of Joshua, Judges, and Ruth; The Kinys, in thirteen 
books, consisting of two books of Samuel, two of Kings, 
two of Chronicles, two of Ezra (Ezra and Nehemiali), 
Tobit, Judith, Esther, Job, the Psalms ; Solomon , in 
five books, consisting of Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Canti- 
cles, Wisdom, and Siracli; Prophets , in eighteen books, 
consisting of Isaiah, Jeremiah’s prophecy and Lamen- 
tations, Baruch, Ezekiel, Daniel, and the twelve minor 
prophets ; lastly, they have also two books of the Mac- 
cabees. Besides this, they possess an apocryphal book 
of Enoch, which they place next to that of Job. The 
critical uses of this version are almost exclusively con- 
fined to the evidence it gives as to the text of the Sep- 
tnagint. The version of the New Testament was made 
directly from the Greek original (see Bode, N. T. xEth. 
cum Grceco collatum , Brunswick, 1753). It follows the* 
verbal arrangement of tiie Greek very closely, and has 
mistakes that are only to be explained by the confu- 
sion of words which resemble each other in that lan- 
guage. It is difficult to determine what recension it 
follows, but it frequently agrees with the Peshito and 
the Itala. It is impossible to ascertain the date of the 


execution of either of these translations, but they may 
both be ascribed with much probability to the begin- 
ning of the fourth century. — Kitto, s. v. Although 
there are several MSS. in Europe containing the Ethi- 
opic version entire, only parts have yet been printed : 
the Psalter, first by Pot ken, along with Canticles (Rom. 
1513, 4to); also by the Bible Soc. (Lond. 1815), with 
notes by Ludolf (Frcft. 1701, 4to) ; the Canticles alone, 
by Nissel (Lngd. 1GG0, 4to) ; Jonah, in Lat. by Retrai- 
ns (ib. eod. 4to) ; Ruth, by Nissel (ib. eod. 4to); M ala- 
chi, in Lot. by Petncus (ib. lGGl,4to) ; Joel, by the same 
(il>. eod. Ito): first 4 chapters of Genesis, by Biircklin 
(Frcft. 1G9G, 4to'); Jonah, with a glossary, etc., bv Stau- 
daclier (ib. 170G, 8vo) ; various fragments, by Bode 
(Helnist. 1755, 4to). Dillmann is publishing for the 
first time the O. T. entire ( Biblia V. T. sEth ., Lips. 18G0 
sq., 4 to). The whole New Testament has, however, 
appeared. It was first published hv three Abyssinians 
(Rome, 1548-9, 3 vols. 4to). reprinted in Walton's Pohj- 
ylot (London, 1857, fol.; vol. v, with a Latin version, 
also 1G98). Platt -has edited the entire 0. T. in Am- 
haric (Lond. 1840, 4to). The Gospels were edited anew 
from MSS. by Platt (Lond. 182G, 4to), and the whole 
, N. T. by the same in 1830. Bode published transla- 


fvrnflypi 

"kg* %&&&&&* 

Specimen of an Etliiopic MS. in the possession of the Church Missionary Society 
of London (containing Nuin. xxiv, 17). 


ETHMA 


335 


ETHNOLOGY 


tions and critical editions of several portions : Ep. to 
Ucb. (Home, 1548, 4to), Matthew’s Gosp. (Hal. 1749, 
4to). See Kosenmuller, Uandb.f. 1 l. Lit. d. bibL Krit. 
iii, 65 sq. ; Davidson, Biblical Criticism, ii, 202 sq. ; 
Dillmann, in Herzog's Encyklopddie , s. v. See Ver- 
sions of the Bidle. 

Eth'ma (’Efy id v. r. Noo/td,Vulg. Nohei), given (1 
Esd. ix, 95) as the name of the head of one of the fam- 
ilies of Israelites, several of whose “sons” divorced 
their Gentile wives after the exile ; apparently a cor- 
ruption of Nebo (q. v.) in the lleb. list (Ezra x, 43). 

Eth'nan (Heb. Ethnan a gift; Sept. ’E<r- 
Qavcip v. r. ’E v&act ; Vulg. Ethnan ), a descendant of 
Judah ; one of the sons of Hclah, the wife of Ashur, 
“ the father of Tekoa” (1 Chron. iv, 7). B.C. post 1618. 

Ethnarch (cSvupxvOi properly ruler of a nation; 
hence generally & prefect of a district or city (Lucian, 
Macrob . 17), e. g. Simon Maccabams, as head of the 
Jewish commonwealth (1 Macc. xiv, 47, “governor;” 
xv, 1, 2, “prince Josephus, Ant. xiii, G, G); Arche- 
laus, appointed by his father’s will and the emperor's 
ratification, his viceroy in Juda3a (Josephus, War, ii, 6, 
3), of the national head (modern “ patriarch ”) of the 
Jews in Egypt (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 7, 2; comp. Stra- 
bo, xvi, 798). Spoken of the “ governor” or mayor of 
the city of Damascus (2 Cor. xi, 32), under the Ara- 
bian king Aretas (q. v.). (See Walcli, Dissertt. in Acta 
Apost. ii, 85.) 

EtL'ni (Heb. Ethni , “'SPX, munificent , Sept. 'AS’o- 
vt v. r. *A$av€t), son of Zeraii and father of Adaiah, of 
the Levitical family of Gershom (1 Chron. vi, 41 [26]). 
B.C. cir. 1420. In ver. 21, the same person appears to 
be designated by the name of Jeatakai. See Asaph. 

Ethnology maybe defined as that branch of mod- 
ern science which treats of the various nations of the 
earth "with respect to their races, i. e. their relative 
origin, and their linguistic and social affinities; and it 
is thus distinguished from political geography, which 
discusses their association under their several civil 
governments. In the Bible, this subject, like all other 
scientific questions, is rather touched upon incidental- 
ly as connected with the history of mankind than in 
any formal and exact manner; yet the information 
thus afforded is of inestimable value, being, in fact, 
the only trustworthy clew to guide the investigator 
through the labyrinth in which later complications, 
and especially recent speculations, have involved the 
whole matter. Infidelity has striven hard to impugn 
the statements of Scripture on this ground especially ; 
and it is therefore satisfactory to know that the most 
candid and general researches strongly tend to corrob- 
orate the positions of Holy Writ relative to all the 
main points involved in the discussion. These, so far 
as the Bible is directly concerned, all centre in one 
cardinal topic, the unity of the human race; and they 
bear upon this chiefly in two lines of argument, name- 
ly, 1st, the analogous and common elements of various 
languages, showing an origin from one source; and, 
2dly, the manner in which men are distributed, or, 
rather, grouped, over the surface of the earth, as illus- 
trating the ethnological chart laid down in the tenth 
chapter of Genesis. This last only, or “the Dispersion 
of Nations ,” u r e propose to discuss in the present article, 
referring the other two to the article Adam, and, espe- 
cially, the article Man, and articles there referred to; 
Tongues (Confusion of), and other articles there re- 
ferred to. For the physiological part of the argument 
u r e refer to the researches of Blumcnbach, Dr. Prichard 
in his elaborate volumes on this subject, the notes in J. 
Pve Smith’s Scripture and Geology, and a dissertation 
by Samuel Forrey, M.D., entitled The Afosaic Account 
of the XI n’t y of the Human Race confirmed by the Natu- 
ral History of the American Aborigines, in the Avierican 
Biblical Repository, J ulv, 1843. For a complete synop- 
tical view of the preseut races of men, see Prichard's 


Ethnological A[aps (London, 1843, fol.). The following 
account is chiefly compiled from Kitto, s. v. Nations. 

I. Fact of an early Dissemination of the Race . — - 
Many obvious reasons incline us to suppose that the 
small number of mankind w'hich divine mercy spared 
from the extirpation of the Deluge, eight persons, 
forming at the utmost five families, would continue to 
dv'ell near each other as long as the utmost stretch of 
convenience would permit them. The undutiful con- 
duct of Ham and his fourth son cannot well be assign- 
ed to a point of time earlier than twenty or thirty 
years after the Flood. Fo long, at least, family affec- 
tion and mutual interests u'ould urge the children of 
Noah not to break up their society. The dread of 
dangers, known and unknown, and every day’s expe- 
rience of the benefit derived from mutual aid, would 
strengthen other motives. It is evident from Gen. 
xi, 10-16, that about ICO years, according to the He- 
brew text, were spent in this state of family propin- 
quity, yet with a considerable degree of proximate dif- 
fusion, which necessity would urge ; but the dates of 
the Septuagint, without including the generation of 
the post-diluvian Cainan (q. v.), give 400. The He- 
brew period, much more the others, will afford a suffi- 
cient time for such an increase of mankind as would 
render an extensive outspread highly expedient. A 
crowded population would be likely to furnish means 
and incentives to turbulence on the one hand, and to 
some form of tyranny on the other. Man)’’ of the un- 
occupied districts would become dangerously unw hole- 
some by stagnating waters and the accumulation of 
vegetable and animal putrescence. The products of 
cultivation and of other arts would have been acquired 
so slowly as to have retarded human improvement and 
comfort. Tardy expansion would have foiled to reach 
distant regions till many hundreds or thousands of 
years had run out. The noxious animals would have 
multiplied immoderately. The religious obedience, 
associated, by the divine command, with the posses- 
sion and use of the earth, would have been checked 
and perverted to a greater degree than thew.orkl’s bit- 
ter experience proves that it actually has been. Thus 
it may appear with pretty strong evidence that a dis- 
persion of mankind was highly desirable to be in a 
more prompt and active style than would have been 
effected by the impulses of mere convenience and 
vague inclination. See Geography. 

That this dictate of reasonable conjecture was real- 
ized in fact, is determined by the Mosaic writings. 
Of the elder son of Eber, the narrative says his “name 
was Peleg (:?3, elhisioii), because in his days the 
earth was divided” (Gen. x, 25); and this is repeated, 
evidently as a literal transcript, in 1 Chron. i, 19. If 
we might coin a w r ord to imitate the Hebrew", we might 
show' the paronomasia by saying “the earth was pe- 
leggeiV (Pjbs!). Some are of opinion that the event 
took place about the time of bis birth, and that his 
birth-name was given to him as a memorial of the 
transaction. But it was the practice of probably all 
nations in the early times that persons assumed to 
themselves, or imposed upon their children and other 
connections, new names at different epochs of their 
lives, derived from coincident events in all t lie variety 
of associated ideas. Of that practice many examples 
occur in the Scriptures. The conjecture is more prob- 
able that, in this instance, the name was applied in the 
individual’s maturer age, and on account of some per- 
sonal concern which lie had in the commencement or 
progress of the separation. But the signification usu- 
ally given is by no means a matter of indubitable cer- 
tainty. The verb occurs only in the two passages 
mentioned (strictly hut one), and in Fsa. lv, 9, “divide 
their tongues,” and Job xxxviii, 25, “who hath di- 
vided a channel for the torrent” (produced by a heavy 
thunder-shower)? Bcspcctable philologists have dis- 
puted whether it refers at all to a separation of man- 


ETHNOLOGY 


336 


ETHNOLOGY 


kind, and think that the event which singularly mark- 
ed Peleg’s life was an occurrence in physical geogra- 
an earthquake which produced a vast chasm, 
separating two considerable parts of the earth in or 
near the district inhabited by men. That earthquakes 
and dislocations of land have taken place in and around 
that region at various times before the historical pe- 
riod, the present very different levels, and other re- 
sults of volcanic agency, afford ample proofs. The 
possibility , therefore, of some geological convulsion 
cannot be denied; or that it might have been upon a 
great scale, and followed by imperfect effects upon the 
condition of mankind. The transpiration of some 
comparatively local interest, however, would seem a 
more appropriate occasion for the name of an individu- 
al than so world-wide an occurrence as the general 
distribution of mankind. But if the race was as yet 
confined to a narrow circle and a single community, 
the breaking up of that society would be a very signal 
event to celebrate in his name. See Peleg. 

But neither the affirming nor the rejecting of this 
interpretation of “the earth's being divided” can af- 
fect the question upon the primeval separation and 
migratory distributions of men. The reasons which 
we have mentioned render it certain that some such 
event, and successive events, have taken place ; and, 
without urging the passage of disputed interpretation, 
it is evident that Gen. x and xi assume the fact, and 
may be considered as rather a summary recognition 
of it than as a detailed account. Thus (ix, 19), “These 
are the three sons of Noah, and from these all the earth 
was scattered over ” (!“tr B5). Again (x, 32), “These are 
the families of the sons of Noah, [according] to their 
generations, in their nations; and from these the na- 
tions were dispersed (^"152) in the earth after the 
Flood.” Here another verb is used, often occurring 
in the Old Testament, and the meaning of which ad- 
mits of no doubt. We find it also at ver. 5, “ From 
these the isles of the nations were dispersed in 

their lands, each [according] to its language, [accord- 
ing] to their families in their nations.” The Biblical 
date thus assigned to the dispersion is not inconsistent 
With the most careful estimate of the antiquity of na- 
tions, such as Egypt and Assyria. See Chronology. 

In the latest composition of Moses is another pas- 
sage, which, in this inquiry, must not be neglected 
(L)eut. xxxii, 8, 9): “In the Most lligh’s assigning 
abodes to the nations, in his dispersing the sons of 
Adam, he fixed boundaries to the peoples according to 
the number (“'SGG, numeration ) of the sons of Israel: 
for the assigned portion of Jehovah is his people; 
Jacob, the lot of his inheritance.” Of this 8th verse 
the Septuagint translation is remarkable, and it thus 
became the source of extraordinary interpretations: 
“ \\ hen the Most High apportioned nations, when he 
scattered abroad the sons of Adam he fixed boundaries 
of nations according to the number of the angels of 
God." There might be a reading ( El or Elohim in- 
stead of Israel) which would yield that meaning from 
comparison with Job i, G; ii, 1 ; xxxviii, 7. Also the 
Alexandrine translators might welcome a colorable 
reasoning for the rendering, that it might haply serve 
as a protection from the danger of the Macedonico- 
Egyptian government, taking up the idea that the 
Jews claimed a divine right of supremacy over all oth- 
er nations. This reading, however, gave occasion to 
the Greek fathers (Justin Martyr, Origen, Eusebius, 
etc.) to maintain the doctrine of "a later Jewish origin, 
that the grandsons of Noah being seventy, each was 
the ancestor of a nation, each nation having its own 
language derived from the confusion of Babel, and 
each also its guardian angel set over it by the Creator, 
excepting the nation of Israel, of which Jehovah him- 
self was the tutelary deity. -The only real difficulty 
of this passage lies in its seeming to* assert that the 
nascent population was distributed into groups with 


the express design of effecting a numerical correspond- 
ence with the Israelitish family eight hundred years 
after. The names assigned to the third degree, that 
is, the sons (rather tribes or nations) of Noah’s three 
sons, are, Japhet fourteen, Ilum thirty-one, Sliem 
twenty-five, making seventy; and the whole family of 
Jacob, when it came to be domiciliated in Egypt, was 
seventy (Gen. xlvi, 2G ; Exod. i, 5 ; Dent, x, 22). Some 
have also fancied a parallel in the seventy elders 
(Exod. xxiv, 1,9; Num. xi, 1G, 21, 25 ; see also Kitto, 
Pictonal Palestine , Civil History, Index, “ Elders”). 
These puerilities might have been prevented had men 
considered that Joes not signify merely an arith- 

metical amount, but is used to denote an exact narrow 
Hon (Judg. vii, 15). The passage is in the highly po- 
etical style of the magnificent ode in which it occurs, 
and, reduced to plain terms, simply declares that the 
Almighty Sovereign, in whose hands of necessity lies 
the disposal of human birth-places, had so arranged 
these, in mapping out the world, as best to subserve 
the future occupancy of Canaan by his chosen people. 

But the main passage of Scripture usually relied 
upon to prove the fact of a sudden and violent disrup- 
tion of primeval society into the germs of the early 
nations, as "well as to explain its circumstances and 
cause, is the account of the building of the tower of 
Babel (Gen. xi, 1-9), in which the dispersion of those 
j engaged in that enterprise has been regarded as a part 
of the disseverance commemorated in the name of Pe- 
leg. There are, however, some objections to this view 
of the narrative. In the first place, these two events 
are not thus connected in the account itself. The spo- 
radic varieties of language, which is the grand distinc- 
tion between the different tribes that have founded the 
ancient monarchies and cities, had not yet appeared ; 
nor could they be accounted for in this manner if the 
original community had already begun to separate into 
the more modern states. The only supposition that 
would make the two occurrences compatible, if con- 
nected, is that the whole body of the Noachites, while 
in process of migration westward (Cl|3*2 DGC22), with 
a view to settling in different localities, were arrested 
by the inviting character of the plain of Shinar, until 
their purpose of diffusion (" ? iS, the same word in ver. 
4 and 8) was renewed by the divine interference. In 
the second place, it is not certain that either of the 
incidents thus associated is of so cosmopolitan a char- 
acter as this theory assumes. By simply rendering 
land or region, instead of “ earth,” the whole af- 
fair is reduced to a petty dispute or misunderstanding 
among the workmen engaged upon a public edifice, 
and a consequent dissolution of that particular cluster 
of inhabitants. Certain it is that all the dialects of 
this polyglot globe cannot be referred to a single inci- 
dent or occasion like this. Such, at least, are in sub- 
stance the arguments that have been offered against 
interpreting the sacred narrative here as having a 
general application to the whole race, nor can it be de- 
nied that they possess a certain degree of plausibility 
(see Bryant, Ancient Mythology , 3d ed. iv, 23-44, 92 
sq.). On the other hand, if, as everything in the con- 
text seems to require, we conceive the descendants of 
Noah to have been at this time (say about the birth 
of Peleg, i. c. one hundred years after the Flood) quite 
limited in numbers and extent (as the longevity of the 
patriarchs and their pastoral habits both indicate), we 
shall find no particular difficulty in taking the entire 
statement in its broadest and most literal sense, as the 
opening wedge of that universal split, which has since 
widened more and more, in language and abode, among 
the sons of men. This narrative, then, of the Disper- 
sion begins with the remarkable statement: “ Now 
the whole earth* was of one language and of one 
speech. And it came to pass, as they journeyed from 
[or “in”] the East, that they found a plain in the land 
of Shinar; and they dwelt there” (Gen. xi, i, 2). The 


ETHNOLOGY 


337 


ETHNOLOGY 


expressions “language” (lip) and “speech” (words) | 
are too precise to be understood (as Vitringa, Obs. Sa- 
cra, ch. ix, p. 109) as indicating merely an agreement 
in purpose. The journeying together shows that the 
time spoken of was before the Noachians had ceased 
to be a single nation, and perhaps when they formed 
but a great tribe, and were journeying (2C3, to pull up 
stakes, as a tent or encampment) after the manner of 
the Arabs across the plains watered by the Tigris and 
Euphrates. It cannot be doubted that Shinar was Bab- 
ylonia. The name, indeed, is perhaps traceable in Mes- 
opotamia in the modern Sinj&r, and it is noticeable that 
the ancient Egyptian transcription of Shinar (“i"3w) is 
Sankar.t (this h corresponding to the Hebrew 5, as 
though the V had been pronounced like the Arabic 
Gain). But there is no evidence that the Hebrews call- 
ed any country except Babylonia “the land of Shi- 
nar.” The direction of the journey, if it be indicated 
as “from the East,” probably would only mark the 
previous halting-place of the Noachians, not the place 
at which they first began to repeople the earth. The 
narrative then relates the attempt to build a city and 
a tower in order to prevent the scattering of mankind, 
and the punishment of the builders by the confusion 
of their language and their being scattered abroad 
from the unfinished city Babel, or Confusion. Leav- 
ing the subject of the Confusion of Tongues for later 
discussion, we must observe the general agreement of 
profane historians as to the antiquity of Babylon, and 
the reminiscence of the Tower in the towers of the 
Babylonian temples. The Pyramids of Egypt and 
those of Mexico should be compared with these towers; 
and, in the case of the former, on account of their ex- 
treme antiquity, the comparison is very important. 
The exact character of the scattering is difficult to in- 
fer. The cause, according to the ordinary explana- 
tion of the narrative, was the Confusion of Tongues, 
but some have supposed the latter to have been the 
consequence of the Dispersion. From ver. 4 compared 
with ver. 9, it would appear to have been but a re- 
sumption of the original plan of immigration, now 
that their holding together had become impossible, for 
the want of a common medium of vocal communica- 
tion. Whatever difficulties we may discover in this 
and the preceding chapter of Genesis, “it is no longer 
probable only, but it is absolutely certain, that the 
whole race of man proceeded from Iran [the proper 
and native name of Persia and some connected re- 
gions] as from a centre, whence they migrated first in 
three great colonies ; and that those three branches grew 
from a common stock, which had been miraculously 
preserved in a general convulsion and inundation of 
this globe” (Sir William Jones, On the Origin and Fam- 
ilies of Nations , Works, ed. by Lord Teignmouth, 8vo, 
iii, 19<5). There is, perhaps, no distinct reference to the 
building of the Tower and the Dispersion in the tradi- 
tions of any heathen nation. The Greek story of the 
giants who piled mountains one upon another to reach 
Olympus is perhaps the most probable trace. Unlike 
the case of the Flood, there is no clear evidence that 
the Dispersion made a strong impression upon the 
minds of those who witnessed and shared in it. This 
would indicate that it was unaccompanied by any 
great outward manifestation of God’s anger, and was 
the immediate consequence of such difficulties as 
would arise from the sudden division of mankind into 
tribes speaking different languages or dialects. See 
Babel (Tower of). 

I T. Preliminary Considerations in examining the List 
of Gen. x. — 1. The enumeration comprises only nations 
existing in the age of Moses, and probably of them 
only the most conspicuous, as more or less connected 
with the history of the Israelites. Many nations have 
been formed in subsequent times, and, indeed, are still 
forming, by separation and by combination ; these can 
be considered only as included on the ground of long 
III. — V 


subsequent derivation. Such are the populations of 
Eastern Asia, Medial and South Africa, America, and 
Australasia. 

2. It cannot be affirmed with certainty that we are 
here presented with a complete Table of Nations , even 
as existing in the time of Moses. Of each of the sons 
of Noah it gives the sons ; but of their sons (Noah’s 
great-grandsons) it is manifest that all are not men- 
tioned, and we have no possible means of ascertaining 
how many are omitted. Thus, of the sons of Japheth, 
the line is pursued only of Gomer and Javan ; Magog, 
Madai, Tubal, Meshecli, and Tiras are dropped without 
any mention of their issue ; yet we have evidence that 
nations of great importance in the liistorj' of mankind 
have descended from them. Ham had four sons : of 
three of them the sons, or rather clannish or national 
descendants, are specified; but to Phut, the fourth, no 
posterity is assigned. Shem had five sons, but the de- 
scendants of only two of them are recorded. It can- 
not be supposed that those whose sequence is thus cut 
off died without children ; for, as w T e shall presently 
see, nations of great historical interest may be traced 
up to them. 

3. Mere similarity, or even identity of name, is 
not a sure guide. So remarkable a name as Ilazar- 
maveth can scarcely be mistaken when we find it in 
Hadramaut. Such a name would not be repeated, and 
the Hadramaut which we discover in Arabia cannot be 
doubted to indicate the settlement of Joktan’s son Ha- 
zarmaveth ; but this is an exceptional case. When 
the similarity of Dodanim to Dodona is considered to 
be a sufficient proof of identity, all criticism is set at 
defiance. For the investigation before us we have an 
aid, invaluable both for its ample comprehension and 
its divine authority, in the account of the traffic of 
Tyre (Ezek. xxvii). 

4. The list is, in one aspect, a kind of geographical 
table : many names in its descents are found in later 
places of Scripture as geographical terms designating 
nations, or at least important tribes. Therefore — 

(1.) We must not look for a name in that of a town. 
There is an exception, probably not the only one, in 
the case of Sidon, the city of the Sidonians, who were 
doubtless a Canaanitish tribe, but to trace names in 
general in those of towns is very hazardous. 

(2.) The tracing of a nation or tribe to a name in 
the list is of little value, unless neighboring or kindred 
nations, or nations otherwise markedly connected with 
it, can also be traced to the same part of the list. 

5. Preference must always be given to the oldest 
documents in seeking for identifications. Next to the 
0. T., the Egyptian, Assyrian, and Babylonian monu- 
ments must be cited. In each set of documents, the 
notices nearest in point of time are always likely to be 

i the best commentators; for it must be remembered 
that migrations and deportations are less likely to af- 
fect evidence the earlier it is. 

6. Although the list is geographical, its form is 
| genealogical ; and it does sometimes, and may fre- 
quently, state or convey the name of the founder of a 
nation or tribe — thus, all those terminating in the 
plural im, and those specified by the Gentilitian ad- 
jective, the Jebusite, the Ilivite, etc. Yet 

(1.) We must not attempt to identify a founder's 
name in the traditions of nations, except when it is 
distinctly mentioned there as such. 

(2.) As before, we must not be satisfied unless the 
identification is supported by the geographical position 
of the founder’s nation, or its ethnological character, 
or else by some marked characteristics connecting it 
with other names identified in the same part of the 
list. 

III. The Immediate Sons of Noah. — Shem is always 
mentioned first of the three sons of Noah when their 
names occur together, the order being Shem, Ham, 
and Japheth. In Gen. x, 21 he is called “the elder 
brother of Japheth,” which the A. V. incorrectly trans- 


ETHNOLOGY 


338 


ETHNOLOGY 


lates “the brother of Japheth the elder,” where a 
comma after “Japheth” gives the correct sense. In 
the list of that chapter, notwithstanding the occur- 
rence of the usual order in ver. 1, the sons of Japheth 
are first mentioned, then those of Ilam, and lastly 
those of Sbem, the order being inverted. It has been 
supposed that Shem was put at the close of the list 
in order that the insertion of the other descendants 
of Noah might not form a digression in the history 
of the Shemites and their Hebrew branch. The Ja- 
phethites may have been put at the head of the list 
as the most widely spread, and so the most distant ; 
and, for a like reason, the Ilamites may have pre- 
ceded the Shemites, the order being that of the extent 
of colonization. Or, again, the order may be geo- 
graphical, from v r est to east, in accordance with the 
western, central, and eastern positions of the three 
great stocks. We shall see that the details favor the 
last view'. 

Shem (E'j) signifies “name, good name, fame;” 11am 
(Eft), “hot, warm;” Japheth (PB^), “ spread,” from 
PlPB. The names are probably prophetical of the fu- 
ture renown of the Shemites, of the hot land of the 
Hainites, and the spread of the Japhethites. The 
prophecy of Noah (Gen. ix, 25, 26, 27) indicates the ap- 
propriateness of Japheth’s name to liis future ; and a 
prophetical sense of the names of his brethren may 
therefore be conjectured. But there is no distinct al- 
lusion to any such sense in their cases. It might be 
thought that the appropriateness of Shem’s name as 
illustrious could be traced in the prediction that his 
should he the believing stock, but there is no indica- 
tion whatever of any moral significance in the name 
of flam. 

1. Shem . — There is no trace of any single nation or 
country named after Shem, probably because the 
Shemites, by an instinct afterwards remarkable in 
their descendants, early separated into distinct tribes, 
though not migrating very far. This was the case 
with the Israelites; and with the Arabs the same pro- 
cess is still in constant operation. See Siiem. 

2. Ham . — The name of Ham has been connected 
with an appellation of Egypt in Hebrew', only occur- 
ring in three passages in the poetical books — “the 
land of Ham” (Psa. Ixxviii, 51; cv, 23; evi, 22), and 
with the most usual Egyptian name of the country, 
Kem, “ the black (land).” The former term we can- 
not doubt contained the patriarch’s name. Is the lat- 
ter identical with it? The significations of Ham and 
Kem are sufficiently near. Ham may reasonably be 
derived from EEn, “he or it w*as warm,” and com- 
pared with E^H, “he or it w r as black,” and the Arabic 
cham , of the same signification as the last, and chama, 
“black fetid mud” (Kamus), or “black mud” ( Sihhh 
MS.). Kem cannot be taken for an Egyptian tran- 
scription of Ham, but it may be a word of cognate 
origin (comp, kar, “a circle,” b"rt, “he or it 
turned, turned round ;” karr, “a furnace,” fP.n, “it 
burned;” kxa, “ to bend,” J12H, “he or it bowled 
down, inclined”). There can, therefore, be no reason- 
able doubt that the Egyptian name of the country is 
identical with the Hebrew name of the patriarch. Are 
they of separate origin? We must either suppose 
this, or that “the land of Ilam” became changed to 
“llam-land,” or “ black land.” The genius of the 
Egyptian language would account for such a change, 
which seems not improbable. That Ham should have 
given his name to a country might be accounted for by 
the supposition that, except the Canaanites, the Ilam- 
ites penetrated into Africa, and at first established 
themselves in Egypt. See Ham. 

3. Japheth. — It is impossible not to see the name of 
Japheth in the Greek Japctus the Titan, son of Ura- 
nus and Ge, and the supposed ancestor of the human 
race ; for, as we shall sec, the Greeks, or at least those 


of the Hellenic stock, are classed among the Japheth. 
ites in the list of Genesis. See Japheth. 

IV. The Descendants of Japheth . — The following is 
the table of the Japhethites : 

Japheth. 1. Gomel*. a. Ashkenaz. 

b. ltiphath. 

c. Togarmah. 

2. Magog. 

3. Madai. 

4 Javan. a. Elishah. 

b. Tarshish. 

c. Kittim. 

d. Dodanim. 

5. Tubal. 

C. Meshech. 

7. Tiras. 

1. Corner. — This name occurs in but one later placo 
in connection w*ith geography, as that of a nation or 
tribe allied with Magog, and it is there mentioned im- 
mediately before Togarmah, distinguished as northern 
(Ezek. xxxviii, C). It has therefore been supposed to 
point to a remote northern nation, Seythic, or perhaps 
European. Two great gentile names have been com- 
pared, the Cimmerians of the Tauric Chersonese, who 
invaded the w*est of Asia Minor early in the 7th cen- 
tury B.C., and the Cimbri and Cymry, whose ethnic 
and nominal identity cannot be doubted. Considering 
the migratory character of the Cimmerians and Cim- 
bri, it is reasonable to suppose that they had the same 
origin. In the cuneiform inscriptions of Darius llys- 
taspes, Gimiri occurs as the Shemitic equivalent of 
the Arian name Saha (Xatcai). (Sir II. Kavlinson, in 
Rawlinson’s Herodotus , iii, 150, note 1.) See Gomel. 

a. Ashkenaz. — In a single later mention Ashkenaz 
occurs, in a confederacy against Babylon, with Ararat, 
Minni, and Middai (Jer. li, 27, 28). It was therefore 
a nation in the direction of Armenia. 

b. Ripliath, written in 1 Chron. i, 6, Diphath, does 
not occur elsewhere in Scripture. It has been com- 
pared with the Riphsean Mountains of Greek geogra- 
phy ; but the statement of Josephus, commenting on 
this list, that the Paphlagonians were anciently called 
Kiphathaians, is w orthy of notice {Ant. i, 6, 1). 

c. Togarmah is mentioned in Ezekiel among the 
traders with Tyre, after Tarshish, Javan, Tubal, and 
Meshech, all Japhethites, and before Dedan, here prob- 
ably the country of which the inhabitants, called Do- 
danim, are classed among the sons of the Japhethite 
Javan (Ezek. xxvii, 12-15); and, in a later place, 
“the house of Togarmah, of the north quarters,” fol- 
lows Gomer in the list of the army of Gog, prince of 
Magog (xxxviii, G). These particulars point to a 
northern people not remote from Greece. Togarmah 
traded with Tyre “with horses and horsemen, and 
mules” (xxvii, 14), whence we may suppose these traf- 
fickers came by land. All the indications agree very 
w*ell with the opinion that Togarmah may be con- 
nected w ith the Armenians. 

2. Magog is elsewhere mentioned by Ezekiel only, 
first among the countries ruled by Gog, and especially 
associated with Kosh, Meshech, and Tubal (Ezek. 
xxxviii, 2, 3), and apparently spoken of as dwelling 
“in the isles” (xxxix, G). The term “isles” certain- 
ly must not be taken necessarily to indicate islands, 
hut it is apparently limited to maritime, transmarine, 
and very remote regions. It has generally been held 
that Magog, used for a nation, is applied to the Scyth- 
ians of the Greeks, though perhaps in a restricted 
sense. Certainly, in the time of Ezekiel, the Scyth- 
ians who invaded Western Asia v*ere the most power- 
ful nation of the country to which the confederacy 
mentioned by the prophet may reasonably be assigned ; 
and the agreement of Josephus {Ant. i, G, 1) and Je- 
rome {Quest, in Gen. x, 2) in the identification is not 
to be overlooked. See Magog. 

3. Madai , always later applied to the country Me- 
dia, very appropriately follows Magog, if the latter, 
when used geographically, indicates the Scythian 
neighbors of the Medes. Madai, like other names af« 


ETHNOLOGY 


339 


ETHNOLOGY 


terwards employed for a country rather than a people, 
may originally have been a man’s name (comp. Miz- 
rairn , infra). See Madat. 

4. Javan. — Except where applied to an Arabian 
place or tribe (Ezek. xxvii, 19 ; and perhaps Joel iii, 

0) , this is, in all later places, the name of the Greeks, 
or at least of the Hellenic Greeks. The Persians, like 
the Hebrews, called all the Greeks louians. See Ja- 
van. 

a. Elishah, at the head of the descendants of Javan, 
is to be looked for in Hellenic geography. It is men- 
tioned in Ezekiel as trading with Tyre, “ Blue and 
purple, from the isles of Elishah, was that which cov- 
ered thee” (xxvii, 7). The name has been compared 
with Elis, Hellas, and the xEolians. Etymologically 
the first and third are equally probable, but other cir- 
cumstances seem almost decisive in favor of the latter. 
The coast of the YEolian settlements in Asia Minor 
produced purple, and the name of so important a divi- 
sion of the Hellenic nation would suit better than that 
of a city which never was rich and powerful enough 
to be classed with Sidon, Tyre, or Carthage. 

b. Tarshish is in later Biblical history the name of 
a great mart, or, as some hold, of two. The famous 
Tarshish, supposing there were two, was one of the 
most important commercial cities of the period of the 
kings ; second only, if second, to Tyre. It was acces- 
sible from the coast of Palestine, but its trade was car- 
ried on in large ships, “ships of Tarshish,” which im- 
plies a distant voyage from Palestine. It brought to 
Tyre “silver, iron, tin, and lead” (Ezek. xxvii, 12). 
These products seem to point incontestably to a Span- 
ish emporium, and the majority of modern commenta- 
tors agree in fixing on the celebrated Tartessus, said 
to have been founded by the Phoenicians, and with 
which the Phoenicians traded. In some places Tar- 
shish seems to be evidently a country. 

c. Kittim. — This Gentile noun, usually written Chit- 
tim in the A. Y., is generally connected with Citium 
of Cyprus. Other indications of Scripture seem not 
unfavorable to this identification, which would make 
the Kittim or Chittim a seafaring population of Cy- 
prus. 

d. Dodanim, closely connected in the table by con- 
struction as well as in form with Kittim — “Elishah 
and Tarshish, Kittim and Dodanim” (Gen. x, 4)— was 
a maritime or insular people. Ezekiel says of Tyre, 
“ The men of Dedan [were] thy merchants ; many 
isles [were] the merchandise of thine hand : they 
brought thee [for] a present horns of ivory and ebony” 
(xxvii, 15). The reading in the list as given in 1 
Chron. (i, 7) is Rodanim, a form which is probably the 
true one, as supported by the Sept, and Samaritan 
versions. The Sept, identifies this people with the 
Rhodians in all instances, including that in Ezekiel. 
In the prophet’s time Rhodes was a great seat of Phoe- 
nician commerce, and at the site of Camirus, one of its 
three important cities before the city Rhodes was 
founded, many objects of Phoenician style have been 
discovered. It maj^ be added that ivory is one of the 
materials of its antiquities. The identification, con- 
sidering the probable place of the Kittim, is very likely. 

5. Tubal , and, 6. Meshech , arc in later places men- 
tioned together (Ezek. xxvii, 13 ; xxxviii, 2, 3 ; xxxix, 

1) , and were evidently northern nations (xxxix, 2). 
They have been traced in the Moschi and Tibareni 
mentioned together by Herodotus (iii, 94 ; vii, 78), and 
as Muskai and Tuplai, in the Assyrian inscriptions 
(Pawlinson’s Herodotus, i, 530), which inhabited the 
northern coast of Asia Minor towards the Caucasus. 

7. Tiras, last in the list of the sons of Japheth, has 
not been satisfactorily identified. The best compari- 
son is perhaps with the Tyrrhenians or Tyrsenians, as 
then all the chief territories of Japhethite civilization 
would seem to have been indicated — Armenia, Asia 
Minor, Thrace, the Asiatic Islands, European Greece, 
Italy, aud Spain. 


Y. Descendants of Ham, or Hamites: 

Ham. 1. Cush. a. Seba. 

b. Ravil ah. 

c. Sabtah. 

d. ltaarnah. a. Sheba. 

b. Dedan. 

e. Sabtecbah, 

/. Nimrod. 

2. Mizraim. a. Ludim. 

1. Anamim. 

c. Lehabim. 

d. N'aphtuhim. 

e. Pathrusim. 

/. Casluhim. a. Philistim. 

а. Caphtorim. 

3. Phut. 

4. Canaan. a. Sidon. 

б. Heth. 

c. Jebusite. 

d. Aniorite. 

e. Girgasite. 

/. Hivite. 

p. A rkite. 

h. Sinite. 

?. Arvadite. 

j. Zemarite. 

k. Hamathite. 

1. Cush is immediately recognised in Kish, the 
ancient Egyptian name of Ethiopia above Egypt. 
With this identification all geographical mentions in 
Scripture, except that in the account of Paradise (Gen. 
ii, 13), agree. The latter may refer to a primaeval 
Cush, but an Asiatic settlement is positively indicated 
in the history of Nimrod, and we shall see that the set- 
tlements of the Cushites extended from African Ethio- 
pia to Babylon, through Arabia. See Cush. 

a. Seba is connected by Isaiah with Egypt and Cush 
(xliii, 3 ; xlv, 14), and the statement of Josephus that 
the island and city of Meroe bore, this name is there- 
fore to be noticed. In the ancient Egyptian geograph- 
ical lists, Sahaba and Sahara occur among names 
of tribes or places belonging to Ethiopia (Brngsch, 
Geogr. Itischr. ii, p. 9, pi. xii, k. 1.). 

b. Havilah. — The identification of Havilah is diffi- 
cult, as the name recurs in the list of the sons of Jok- 
tan ; and in Biblical geography, except only in the 
description of Eden, it is found in Arabia alone. If 
the two stocks intermixed, and thus bore a common 
name, a single localization would be sufficient. 

c. Sabtah can only be doubtfully traced in Arabian 
geography. 

d. Raamah, in the Sept. 'Pey^id, is well traced in 
the 'Psyga of Ptol. (vi, 7), and 'Pijyga of Steph. Byz. 
(s. v.), a city of Arabia on the Persian Gulf. 

a. Sheba, and, b. Dedan, bear the same names as two 
descendants of Keturah (Gen. xxv, 3), from which it 
has reasonably been supposed that we have here an 
indication of a mixture of Cushite and Abrahamite 
Arabs, like that of Cushite and Joktanite Arabs in- 
ferred in the case of the two Havilahs. It is to be 
remarked that the name of Dedan has been conjectu- 
rallv traced in the modern name of the island of Da- 
dan, on the east coast of Arabia, and that of Sheba in 
the ruins of an ancient city called Seb5, in the neigh- 
boring island of Awhl. 

e. Sabtechah is not identified. 

f Nimrod is generally thought to have been a re- 
moter descendant of Cush than son. and this the usage 
of Hebrew genealogies may be held to sanction. He 
is the first and only known instance in the list of the 
leader of a dynasty rather than the parent of a nation 
or tribe. His name is followed by a parenthetical 
passage relating to his power and the establishment 
and extension of his kingdom. It is probable that 
this narrative is introduced to mark the commence- 
ment of the first Noachian monarchy. It may be com- 
pared with the notices of inventions in the account of 
Cain’s descendants (Gen. iv, 20-22). The name of 
Nimrod is probably Sheinitic, from “he was re- 

bellious.” It occurs in ancient Egyptian, in the form 
Namuret, in the family of the 22d dynasty, which 
was certainly, at least in part, of foreign origin. The 


ETHNOLOGY 


340 


ETHNOLOGY 


like names Siiesiienk, Usarken, Tekerut, appear 
to be Shemitie. 

2. Mizraim, literally “the two Mazors,” is the com- 
mon name of Egypt in the Bible ; the singular, Mazor, 
being rarely used. It has been thought to be a purely 
geographical name, from its having a dual form, but 
it has been discovered in ancient Egyptian as the 
name of a llittite or kindred chief, B.C. cir. 1300, con- 
temporary with liameses II, written in hieroglyphics 
Matrima, where the jia is known to express the 
Hebrew dual, as in Maiiasjia for Mahanaim. That 
it should be used at so early a time as a proper name 
of a man suggests that the fact that Egypt was so 
called may be due to a NoaehiaiTs name having had a 
dual form, not to the division of the country into two 
regions. If, however, we suppose that in Gen. x Miz- 
raim indicates the country, then we might infer that 
Hams son was probably called Mazor. It is remark- 
able that Mazor appears to be equivalent to Ham: as 
we have seen, the meaning of the latter is evidently 
“hot” or “black,” perhaps both, and a cognate word 
is used in Arabic for “ black mud among the mean- 
ings of misr , the Arabic equivalent of Mazor, the Ka- 
mus gives “red earth or mud.” Thus Ham and Ma- 
zor or Mizraim would especially apply to darkness of 
skin or earth ; and, since both were used geographi- 
cally to designate the “black land,” as cultivated 
Egypt always was from the blackness of its alluvial 
soil, it is not surprising that the idea of earth came to 
be included in one of the significations of each. If 
Mizraim were purely geographical in the list, then we 
might perhaps suppose that it was derived from Mazor 
as a Shemitie equivalent of Ham. It is certainly re- 
markable that all the descendants of Mizraim are men- 
tioned as tribes in the plurals of gentile nouns. See 
Mizraim. 

a. Ludim, perhaps mentioned in passages of the 
prophets as Lud or Ludim (Isa. lxvi, 19; Jer. xlvi, 9 ; 
Ezek. xxvii, 10; xxxviii, 5; xxx, 4, 5), where, how- 
ever, the Shemitie Lud may be intended. There would 
be no doubt that in at least one of these passages 
(Ezek. xxx, 4,5), where Egypt, and, as far as they are 
identified, African nations or countries are spoken of, 
the Ludim are those of the Mizraite stock, were it not 
possible that under the term Ludim or Lydian the 
Ionian and Carian mercenaries of the Pharaohs may 
be indicated. 

b. Anamirn, a nation as yet not identified. 

c. Lehabim, no doubt the same as the Lnbim or 
Libyans mentioned in later places of Scripture as al- 
lies or mercenaries contributing to the armies of the 
Pharaohs, and supporting or dependent on Eg}'pt as a 
race in ver}’ close relations. They correspond to the 
Peru or Lkbu of the Egyptian inscriptions, western 
neighbors of Egypt, conquered by the kings of the 
19th and 20th dynasties. 

d. Xaphtuhim strikingly resembles the Coptic name 
of the westernmost part of Lower Egypt, the territory 
of the city Marea, probably the older Mareotic nome 
Niphaiat or Xiphaiad , a plural form commencing with 
the definite article ni. 

e. Pathrusim, a tribe of which the territory, “the 
country of Pathros,” is mentioned in later places. The 
latter lias been compared with the Egyptian Pathvrite 
or Phaturite Nome; in Coptic papitoutrs, papithmires ; 
in ancient Egyptian ra-hat-iier ; the chief objection 
to which identification is, that the geographical impor- 
tance of the name seems scarcely sufficient. 

/. Casltthim, not as yet identified. 

g. Caphtorim, and the land of Caphtor, have given 
rise to much discussion. Poole has proposed as the 
equivalent of Caphtor the ancient Egyptian name of 
Coptos, lv i.i it it, Kep.ta, Kebiier, probably pronounced 
Kubt, Kabt, Kebthor, the -Coptic AT/7, Kepto , Kepto , 
KebiO , Gr. ko7rroc, Aral). Kvft, and ventured to com- 
pare Atyv7TTog with ‘Tins; Sec Caphtor. It 


must be remembered that the city Coptos, or its nome, 
has given its name to the whole nation of Egyptians, 
who were known as Copts by the Arabs at the time of 
the conquest. But good reasons have been urged in 
favor of Cyprus, especially the circumstance of the 
Philistine migration. 

a. Philistim. — The Philistines are here said to have 
come forth from the Casluhim; elsewhere they are 
called Caphtorim, and said to have come out of Caph- 
tor. It is not allowable to read that the Philistim and 
Caphtorim came from the Casluhim. Perhaps there 
is a transposition in the text. The origin of the Phil- 
istines from a Mizraite stock is a very important fact 
for the explanation of the list. 

3. Phut . — In later places, Put or Phut occurs as the 
name of an African country or nation, closely connect- 
ed with Egypt, like the Lubim. It may be compared 
with those geographical names in the ancient Eg}’ptian 
inscriptions in which the element pet, “the bow,” 
occurs. Nubia was called the “ bow-land,” tu-pet, 
where it is usual to read tu-kens, hut the bow has not 
the sound kens elsewhere ; and it is probable that a 
part of Nubia was called Kens, and that the bow was 
written as a determinative symbol to show that Kens 
was included in “ the bow-land but the question is 
full of difficulties. See Phut. 

4. Canaan, in Gen. ix (18, 22, 25, 2G, 27), is distinctly 
mentioned as the son of Ham. It has been thought 
that liis name means the “degraded,” “the subdued” 
man, “the lowlander,” for both senses are possible. 
See Canaan. 

a. Sidon, “ the first-born” of Canaan, like Heth, im- 
mediately following, is a proper name, whereas all the 
remaining names are gentile nouns in the singular. 
Sidon is thought to signify “the fishing-place,” so 
that the name of the place would seem here to be put 
for that of the founder, “the fisherman,” 'AXffi^ of 
Sanehoniathon or Philo of Byblns. But it must be 
noticed that the next name, Heth, is treated in later 
places as that of a man. The position of the Sidoni- 
ans, like that of most of the Canaanitish tribes, need 
not here be described. 

b. Ileth, ancestor of the “ Children of Heth,” or 
llittites, a very important nation of Palestine and 
Syria. There are indications in Scripture of Hittites 
out of Palestine, and the ancient Egyptians warred 
with the Kiieta in the valley of the Orontes, whose 
names show that they spoke a Shemitie language. 
The Egyptian monumental representations show that 
their armies were composed of men of two races, the 
one apparently Shcmite in type, the other beardless, 
and resembling the Tatar type. See Hittite. 

c. The Jebusite, d. Amorite, e. Girgasite (properly 
Girgashite), f. Hivite, all inhabitants of Palestine ; 
but the Amorite, like the Hittite nation, seems to have 
had a wider extension, for the territory in which stood 
Ketesii, the great stronghold of the Kiieta on the 
Orontes, is called in Egyptian “the land of Amar” 
(Brugsch, Geogr . Inschr. ii, p. 21, 22, pi. xviii, 44,47). 

g. The Arkite, compared with the Phoenician town 
of Area. 

k. The Sinite, not satisfactorily identified. Perhaps 
one of their settlements may be traced in Sin or Pelu- 
sium. 

i . The Arvadite, no doubt the people of Aradus. 
The derivation from T*V"l, with the sense “ wandering,” 
“place of fugitives,” is in accordance with the tradi- 
tion referred to by Strabo, who says that Aradus was 
built by Sidonian fugitives (xvi, 2, 13, 14). Aradus 
was a Phoenician city. 

j. The Zemarite, eonjecturally traced in the town 
Simvra, which has nothing to recommend it but its 
neighborhood to Ark a. and Aradus. 

1c. The Haniathite, well known to have been seated 
in Upper Syria, where Hamath, on the Orontes, was 
long a capital of an important kingdom. 


ETHNOLOGY 


341 


ETHNOLOGY 



( j. ) Sheba. 

(k. ) Opliir. 

( 1. ) Havilali. 

(m.) Jobab. 

4. Lad. 

5. Aram. 

a. Uz. 

b. IIul. 

c. Gethcr. 

d. Mash. 

1. Elam , when used geographically, held to corre- 
spond to Susiana, not to Persia Proper. 

2. Asshur, afterwards the Assyrian nation. In the 
cuneiform inscriptions Asshur is the chief object of 
worship of the kings. See Asshur. 


VI. Descendants of Skem , or Shemites : 

Shem. 

1. Elam. 

2. Asshur. 

3. Arphaxad. 

a. Salah. a. Eber. (a.) Peleg. 

(i>.) Joktan. 

( a. ) Almodad. 

(b. ) Sheleph. 

(c. ) Hazarmaveth. 
(d. ) Jerah. 

( e. ) lladoram. 

( f. ) Pzal. 

(g. ) Diklah. 

(h.) Obal. 

( i. ) Abimael. 


ETHNOLOGY 342 ETHNOLOGY 


3. Arphaxad , probably well traced in the province 
Arrapachitis. 

a. Salali seems to be only a genealogical link. In 
the Sliemitic family the list is clearly something more 
than ethnological and geographical ; it is of the nature 
ol a pedigree, at least as far as it deals with the ances- 
try of Abraham. 

a. Eber. — It is impossible here to discuss the diffi- 
cult question whether to this patriarch the name of the 
Hebrews owed its origin. The argument based on the 
mention in this list that Shem was “ the father of all 
the children of Eber” (x, 21) seems to us almost un- 
answerable on the affirmative side. See Eder. 

(«.) Peleg seems, like Salah, to be but a genealogi- 
cal link. 

(6.) Joktan is perhaps only a similar link : his de- 
scendants form an important series. 

(a.) Almodad, supposed to be traceable in Arabian 
names. 

(b.) Sheleph, traced in El-Yemen. 

(c.) Ilazarmaveth, identical in name with the great 
region of Hadramaut, in Southern Arabia. 

(d.) Jerah, not certainly identified, and (e.) Ilado- 
ram, not traced. 

(f.) Uzal, the same name as Awzal, the ancient 
name of San’h, capital of El-Yemen. 

(g.) Diklali, (h.) Obal, (i.) Abimael, not traced. 

(j.) Sheba is the same name as the Arabic Seb&.the 
old kingdom of El-Yemen. The mentions in the Bi- 
ble of the kingdom of Sheba point towards Arabia, and 
the Arabic indication thus fixes the position of Joktan- 
ite Sheba in the south. 

(k.) Ophir, perhaps traced in Southern Arabia. 

(1.) Havilah, as already remarked under the head 
of the Cushite Havilah, may indicate a mixture of 
Cushite and Joktanite settlers in Arabia. 

(m.) Jobab, not certainly identified. 

4. Lud has been compared to Lydus, the traditional 
ancestor of the Lydians. The Sliemitic character of 
the Lydian civilization is confirmatory of this view. 
The Egyptian monuments of the empire mention a 
powerful Asiatic people of Sliemitic type, apparently 
living not far from Mesopotamia, called Buten or Lu- 
bex. It is possible that the Lydians may have mi- 
grated into Asia Minor after the time of the Egyptian 
empire, or that there may have been two Lydian set- 
tlements. It is not clear Avhether the Lud or Ltidim 
of later places of Scripture were of this stock, or the 
same as the Mizraite Ludim, as already remarked. 

5. Aram is, in later places, the geographical desig- 
nation of Syria, though the term is not of the same ex- 
tent as our Syria. We read of Aram-naharaim, “Aram 
of the two rivers,” either Mesopotamia, according to 
the general opinion, or the country of the Orontes and 
Leontes, of Padan-Aram, perhaps a part of the same 
tract, or another name for it; and also of Aram-Zobah, 
Aram-Beth-rchob, Aram-Maachah, and Aram-Damme- 
sek, or Syria of Damascus, all kingdoms in the coun- 
try Aram (q. v.). 

a. Uz. Mention is made of “the land of Uz” in 
the book of Job, where other indications seem to point 
to the north of Arabia. 

b. Ilul, and, r. Gcthcr, are not identified; d. Mash 
is but eonjecturally traced in Mesene, in Lower Baby- 
lonia, or Mons Masius, at the north of Mesopotamia. 

VII. Results . — These are twofold: 


ItAOES. 

I. Caucasian. 

1. White (as Greek). 

2. Tawny (Arab). 

3. brown (Abyssinian). 

II- Lower Nilotic (Egyptian). 

III. Nigritian (Negro). 

IV. Tatar (Chinese). 


LANGUAGES. 

I. She mi tic (as Hebrew). 

II. Iranian (Greek). 

III. barbaric. 

1. Egyptian. 

2. Nigritian. 

3. Tatar. 


In the table which follows, the first column gives 
those names from Gen. x fbT which there are highlv- 
probable geographical identifications; the second col- 
umn states these identifications ; the third contains 


ethnological evidence from Egyptian (Eg.), Assyrian 
(As.), or other sources ; the fourth exhibits the like 
philological evidence. 


Name. 

Identification. 

| Race. 

Language. 

Hum 

Egypt i 

Lower N ilotic 

Barbaric, Egyp- 

(lamer 

Cimbri 

Caucasian 

Iranian [tian 

Mudai 

Media 

Caucasian 

Iranian 

Javan 

Greeks 

Caucasian, white 

Irauian 

Tubal 

Tibaretii 



Meshech 

Moschi 



Cush 

Ethiopia 

Nigritian ? 

Barbaric, Nigri* 

Seba 

Meroe 


[tian? 

Rnainah 

Regma (E. Arabia) 



N imrod 

King of Babylonia 




and Assyria 



Mizraim 

Egypt 

Lower Nilotic 

Barbaric Egyp- 

Lehabim 

Libyans 

Caucas., white (Eg.) 

tian 

N'aphluhim 

Egypt ? 



Philistiin 

Philistines 

L. Nilotic (Eg.) 


Canaan 

Palestine and Syria 

Caucasian (Eg.) 

Shemitic 

Sidon 

Sidon 


Shemitic 

illeth 

Hittites 

Caucasian and Ta- 

Shemitic 

Jebusite 



[tar? (Eg.) 


Amorite 





Girgasite 





lllivite 


Palestine and Syria 


Shemitic 

Arkite 





Arvadite 





Hamathite 





Elam 

Susiana 

Caucasian (As.) 


Asshur 

Assyria 

Caucasian (As.) 

Shemitic 

Arphaxad 

Arrapachitis 



Eber 

Hebrews ? 

Caucasian, tawny. 

Shemitic 

Sheleph "1 




1 Hazarmaveth 1 

Southern Arabia 

Caucasian, tawny 

Shemitic 

Uzal 

Sheba J 


[and brown 


■ Lud 

Lydia? 

Caucasian 


| Aram 

Syria 

Caucasian 

Shemitic 


From this evidence we may draw the following in- 
ferences on several important points : 

1. Order of Xames . — The Japhethites seem to be 
placed first, as the most distant nations. In the list 
of the Hamites, the southern, and, therefore, most dis- 
tant Cushites, are arranged from west to east, Seba 
(Meroe) being followed by Raamah (in Arabia), and 
the series closing with Nimrod, who ruled in Babylo- 
nia and Assyria. North of Cush is Mizraim, in the 
enumeration of whose tribes the western Lehabim 
(Libyans) are followed after an interval by the east- 
ernmost Pliilistim, apparently the only Mizraites of 
Palestine. The list of the Canaanites begins with Si- 
don, the Phoenicians of the sea-coast north of the Phil- 
istines ; then mentions under Heth the Hittites, per- 
haps on account of their southern settlement, and, go- 
ing northwards, enumerates tribes near Lebanon, clos- 
ing with the Syrian Hamathites. The Shemitic tribes 
begin in the east, extending regularly from Susiana 
to Arabia, and then ascending to Syria. Lud may be 
an exception, but, as we have seen, the Lydians may 
priimevally have been settled near Syria, otherwise 
Lud may be mentioned between the Arabs and Aram 
as an outlying Shemitic tribe, to be spoken of before 
the enumeration of those nearest Palestine. 

2. Race . — All the names identified with a high de- 
gree of probability are, with six exceptions, of Cauca- 
sian nations. The exceptions are : three certainly of 
the Lower Nilotic race, which is intermediate between 
the Caucasian and Nigritian races, showing strong 
traits of both, a fourth probably of the same race, and 
two others which require more particular investiga- 
tion. Cush, in ancient Egyptian, applies to Nigri- 
tians, for the race of Kisii is represented on the Egyp- 
tian monuments as of the most marked Nigritian type : 
the kings and other royal personages of Meroe, and 
the Ethiopians of rank under them, are, however, rep- 
resented on their monuments as similar to the Lower 
Nilotic race. This suggests that Cush may indicate a 
country mainly peopled by Nigritians, yet with a gov- 
erning mixed race. The remaining exception is the 
case of the Hittites, who are represented on the Egyp- 
tian monuments as of two types — the one Caucasian, 
the other apparently Tatar. This may show that two 
different races were ruled by those 1 1 ittite kings with 
whom the Pharaohs warred, as Og, the king of Bashan, 
was a Kepliaito, not an Amorite. 

3. Language . — The languages are all Iranian or 
Shemitic, with three exceptions. Egyptian, occur- 
ring twice in our table, has a monosyllabic barbaric 


ETHNOLOGY 343 ETTWEIN 


vocabulary, with an amalgamate Sliemitic grammar. 
Here, therefore, as in race, there is a departure from 
the unmixed type. To Cush we have conjectural! y 
assigned a barbaric Nigritian language, because the 
names of Ethiopian tribes conquered by the Egyp- 
tians, and of Ethiopian sovereigns of later times, are 
not readily traceable to either an Egyptian or a She- 
mitic source ; but we cannot say certainly that a She- 
mitic element is wholly wanting in the languages to 
which these words belong. 

The order indicates that the intention of the list is 
partlv geographical. In the detail of each division 
the settlements of races are probably indicated rather 
in the order of position than of ancestral relationship, 
though the principle of relationship is never departed 
from, as far as we can see. 

4. Date . — The list of Gen. x contains certain state- 
ments which may now he examined, in order to infer 
the date to which the document refers. It is said, 
“Afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread 
abroad” (x, 18) ; which may indicate the formation of 
the great llittite settlement in the valle}^ of the Oron- 
tes, or other like extensions. In any case it points to 
an event, or series of events almost certainly prior to 
the establishment of the Israelites in Palestine. So, 
too, the definition of the otherwise unknown Resell, as 
“ the great city” (Gen. x, 12), indicates a period ante- 
rior to that of the kings who ruled at Asshur (Kal’ah 
Sherghat) and Calah (Nimrud), the earliest of whom 
is placed about B.C. 1270. At the time of the Egyp- 
tian empire the capital appears to have been Nineveh, 
and the date of the list would therefore be anterior to 
that time, or at least to the reign of Thotlimes III, 
to whom it was tributary about 1450 II. C. It would 
appear, therefore, that the list was cither written or 
put into its present form not long after, or at the time 
of Moses, if not earlier, and that it refers to a yet ear- 
lier period — that of the first spread of the Noachians. 

VIII. Omissions . — The nations omitted in the list 
must now be noticed, as far as they seem to be of a 
like Iiiuh antiquity. In Deut. ii there is mention of 
several tribes or nations which had been destroyed by 
other tribes or nations who reached Palestine or its 
neighborhood before the Israelitish occupation. Cer- 
tain of these arc called Rephaim, others not. The par- 
ticulars are as follows, as far as they relate to our pres- 
ent subject : 

1. Emim, Pejyhaim, succeeded by Moabites (Deut. ii, 
9-11). 

2. I fori m , succeeded by Edomites (ver. 12, 22). 

3. Zamzummim , elsewhere called Zuzim (Gen. xiv, 
5), Rephaim, succeeded by Ammonites (Deut. ii, 19-21'). 

4. Avim, succeeded by Caphtorim, that is, Philis- 
tines (ver. 23). 

5. Anakim, here mentioned as Rephaim (ver. 10, 21), 
still occupying the south of Palestine at the time when 
the Israelites entered it. 

The Avim were probably also a Repliaite nation, 
for as late as David's time giants were found among 
the Philistines. Elsewhere in Palestine the Israelites 
seem to have found, besides “the three sons of Anak,” 
or the Anakim of Hebron, Og, the king of Bashan, 
who “remained of the remnant of Rephaim” (ii, 11), a 
man of gigantic stature. The position of these Re- 
phaim is that of a few powerful chiefs among the Ca- 
naanites and Philistines, representing tribes destroyed 
by Hebrews, the only exceptional ease being that of 
the Philistines, if, as we suppose, the Avim were Re- 
phaim, for in that ease the former must have first at- 
tacked, but ultimately changing their policy, abstain- 
ed from annihilating the older population. 

At an earlier time we find a very different condition 
of the country. The powerful confederacy of which 
Chedorlaomcr was chief, attacked and conquered, be- 
sides the kings of the cities of the. plain, the Repha- 
im, Zuzim, Emim, Horim, Amalekites, and Amorites. 
Here the Canaanites occupy a very inferior position 


in the south and east of Palestine, but one Canaanitish 
nation being mentioned, and besides undoubted Iie- 
phaites, the Horim probably of the same stock, and 
the ancient and pedigreelcss nation of Amalek. 

"We thus find an indication of an old population of 
Palestine distinct from both Canaanites and Hebrews, 
and especially remarkable for their great height. That 
they were in race still more remote from their suc- 
cessors than has usually been held, has been argued 
from the Anakim’s being spoken of as “of the Nephi- 
lim” (Num. xiv, 33), the term applied to the giants be- 
fore the Flood, wdiere it is said “the Nephilim were in 
the earth in those days” (Gen. vi, 4). On this subject, 
compare Poole, The Genesis of the Earth and of Man, 
2d ed. p. 80-82, 284, 285, where it is maintained that 
the Nephilim were a pre-Adamite race. 

IX. Literature. — Bochart, Elude g et Canaan , sive 
Geographia Sacra (Cadomi, 1G4G); Michaelis, Sjricile- 
ghtm Geographic u- exterce Ilebraorum (Gotting. 17G9, 
1780) ; Forster, Epistolce ad J. D. Miehaelem (Gotting. 
1772); Volney, Reclierches nouvelles (Paris, 1814), ch. 
xviii; Feldhoff, Volkestafel der Genesis (Elberf. 1837); 
Hohlenberg, Comment, de cap. x Geneseos (Ilafn. 1828) ; 
Eichhorn, De Cusclueis rerisimilia (Amst. 1774); Krebs, 
De divisione Phalegria (Lips. 1750); Nagel, Commenta- 
iio exeget. in Act. xvii, 2G (Altd. 1740) ; Zacharia, Dis- 
sert, philol. in loc. eund. (Ilal. 1754); Sehulthess, Das 
Paradies (Ziir. 181G); Kriicke, Erklar. d. Vblkestafeln 
in erst D. Moses (Bonn, 1837) ; Rosenmuller, Bill. AU 
terthumslc. I, i, 221 sq. ; Knobel, Die Volkestafel der Ge- 
nesis (Giess. 1850) ; Miillenhoff, in the Gotting. A nzei- 
gen, 1851, p. 17 sq. ; Joseph v. Gorres, Die Japhiden 
mul ihr Auszug ans Armenien (Regensb. 1845); Beke, 
Origines Biblicev (Lend. 1834); Forster, Hist. Geogra- 
phy of Arabia (Lond. 1844); Hengstenberg, Egypt and 
the Books of Moses (in Clarke’s Library) ; Brace, Paces 
of the Old World (N. Y. 18G3). Comp. Dispersion of 
Mankind ; Division of the Earth ; Man. 

Ets-Aboth. See Tiiick-tree. 

Ets-Gopher. See Gopiier-wood. 

Ets-Hadar. See Goodly-tree. 

Etshmiadzin, a remarkable Armenian convent 
in Erivan, a Transcaucasian province of Russia, and 
about 1G miles west of the town of Erivan. “ It is of 
great extent, is surrounded by a wall 30 feet in height, 
and 14 miles in circuit. This wall incloses several 
distinct churches, each of which is presided over by a 
bishop; is cruciform in shape, and is surmounted by a 
kind of cupola crowned by a low spire. For many 
centuries this lias been the scat of the Catholics (the 
head or patriarch of the Armenian Church). This 
patriarch presides at the synodical meetings, but can- 
not pass a decree without its having the approval of 
the moderator, an official appointed by the Russian 
emperor, in whose hands the control of the convent 
virtually rests. In the convent library there are G35 
manuscripts, 4G2 of which are in the Armenian lan- 
guage.” — Chambers, Encycl. s. v. 

Ets-Shemen. See Oil-tree. 

Ettwein, John, a distinguished divine of the Mo- 
ravian Church, was born June 29, 1721, at Frenden- 
stadt,Wurtemberg. In 1754 he came to America, where 
for nearly half a century he labored as an evangelist, 
as a member of the executive board, and finally as 
a bishop, to which latter office he was appointed in 
1784. He travelled thousands of miles, often afoot, 
and preached the Gospel in eleven of the original 
thirteen colonies, as also in what is now the State of 
Ohio, to white people, negroes, and Indians. In 1772 
he was the leader of the Christian Indians on their 
exodus from the Susquehanna country in Pennsylva- 
nia to the Tuscarawas in Ohio, exposing himself to 
great hardships and dangers. During the Revolu- 
tionary War lie was in frequent intercourse and cor- 
respondence with Washington and several members 


ETUX 


344 


EUDiEMOXISM 


of Congress ; and when the general hospital of the 
American army was transferred to Bethlehem, Ta., 
lie devoted himself with singular disinterestedness to 
the spiritual wants of the sick, in spite, of his many 
other duties. To him, too, must be ascribed the honor 
of originating, in 1787, “the Society of the United 
Brethren for Propagating the Gospel among the Hea- 
then,” which still exists, and now has a large funded 
capital, and to which Congress made a grant of sever- 
al townships on the Tuscarawas, in trust for the Chris- 
tian Indians. lie died January 2, 1802. (E. de S.) 

Etun. See Linen. 

Enbu'lus (Efy3ou\o£, good in counsel), a Christian 
at Borne whose greeting Paul sent to Timothy during 
his last imprisonment (2 Tim. iv, 21), A.D. G4. 

Eucharist, one of the names of the Lord's Supper, 
from sv\apiGria, giving of thanks. See Loud's Supper. 

Euchel, Isaac ben Abraham, a Jewish scholar, 
born in 1756, was a distinguished member of the Soci- 
ety for the Promotion of Biblical Literature and Ex- 
egesis, which was formed in the days of Mendelssohn 
(q.'\\). He is the author of a very learned treatise on 
th j ancient mode of burial among the Jews, 1st nach 
ju, lischen Gesetzen das Uebernachten der Todten wirklich 
verboten ? (Breslau, 1797.) He published also a trans- 
lation of the Jewish Prayers, UV 

or Mose Maimiini’s Mose Nebuchim , with the 
Commentary of Mose Narboni, called and 

others (Sulzbach, 1828, 8 vols. 4to) ; a history of the 
life of Moses Mendelssohn (Berlin, 1798, 8vo ; Vienna, 
1*12); and as a part of the great Bible work started 
by Mendelssohn, Die Spriiche Sulomo s im Orifmal 
ins Dutscke uhersetzt und hebrdisch comment irt (8vo, 
Berlin, 1789, 1790, and often). — Fiirst, Bibliotheca Ju- 
dalca, p. 259, 260 ; Kitto, Cyclop*, of Biblical Literature , 
s. v. 

Euchelaion, the oil of prayer, a ceremony in the 
Greek Church answering to extreme unction in the 
Latin. To such penitents as are conscious of the guilt 
of any “ mortal sin,” as adultery, fornication, or pride, 
this sacrament is administered by the bishop or arch- 
bishop, assisted by seven priests, who commences with 
this prayer: “0 Lord, who with the oil of thy mercies 
hast healed the "wounds of our souls, do thou sanctify 
this oil, that they who are anointed therewith may be 
freed from their infirmities, anti from all corporeal and 
spiritual evils.” The oil of prayer is pure and unmix- 
ed, having in it no other ingredient. A quantity suf- 
ficient to serve for the -whole year is consecrated on 
Wednesday in the Holy Week by the archbishop or 
bishop. In the administration, the priest dips some 
cotton at the end of a stick, and thereby anoints the 
penitent in the form of a cross on the forehead, on the 
chin, on each cheek, and on the backs and palms of the 
hands ; after which he repeats this prayer : “ Holy Fa- 
ther, physician of souls and bodies, -who hast sent thine 
only Son Jesus Christ, healing infirmities and sins, to 
free us from death, heal this thy servant of corporeal 
and spiritual infirmities, and give him salvation and 
the grace of thy Christ, through the prayers of our 
more than holy lady, the mother of God, the eternal 
virgin, through the assistance of the glorious, celestial, 
and incorporeal persons, through the virtue of thy life- 
giving and holy cross, of the holy and glorious prophet, 
the forerunner, John the Baptist, and the holy and 
glorious apostles.” — Farrar, Bccles. Dictionary , s. v. ; 
Pinkerton, Present State of the Greek Church, 193. 

Eucherius, bishop of Lyons in the 5th century, 
was born of a noble family at Lyons. He was a sen- 
ator, happily married, and the father of two sons,Ye- 
ranius and Salonius, who at an early age were sent to 
the monastery of Lerins (now St. Ilonorat) for educa- 
tion. In 422 Eucherius entered the same convent as 
a monk, having obtained the consent of hi s' wife Galla, 
who likewise devoted herself to monastic life. Soon 


after, Eucherius retired into solitude on the island of 
Lero (St. Marguerite). In 434 he was, in consequence 
of the reputation of his great piety, elected bishop of 
Lyons, and, as such, was present at the two synods of 
Orange (441 and 442). He died in 454 (according to 
others, in 450 or 449). He is commemorated as a saint 
on the 16th of November. lie was followed on the 
see of Lyons by his son Veranius, while the second, 
Salonius, became bishop of Geneva. Eucherius wrote, 
about the year 427, Kpisiola pareemtica de contemtu 
mundi et seeularis philosophies (edit, by Boswcid, Ant- 
i werp, 1621) ; in 428, Epistola de laude eremi sen vita 
solitaria (edit, by Bhenanus, Basel, 1516, and by Eras- 
mus, Basel, 1520): — Liber fornmlamm spiritalis intelli - 
I e/entice: — Institutionum libri II : — Kxhoriatio ad Mona- 
chos ; and several homilies. Several other works are 
wrongly attributed to him. It seems that he sympa- 
thized with the Semiarians. A collection of all his 
works w r as published by Brassieanus (Basel, 1531), in 
the Biblioth. Pair. Max. Lugd. tom. vi and xxvii ; and 
i in Migne, Patrol. Lat. tom. 1. See Herzog, Rcal-En- 
j cyklop. xix, 490. (A. J. S.) 

Eucliites. See Messalians. 

Euchologion \6yof), the common name of 
the liturgical books of the Greek Church, containing 
the services for the sacraments, conferring of orders, 
and other religious offices. There is an edition by 
Goar, entitled Euchologion, sive Rituale Grcecomm, com- 
plectens ritus et ordines divines Liturgies, ojfeinrum , sa- 
cramentorum, etc., juxta usum Orieutalis ecclesies (Par. 
1647). See Covel, Some Account of the Greek Church 
(Loncl. 1722, fol.), chaps, ii, iii; Neale, History of the 
Holy Eastern Church, pt. i (Lond. 185.0), i, 317. 

Eudcemon, John Andrew, a Greek Jesuit, was 
i born at Canea, in Candia, about 15G0. He derived his 
descent from the imperial family of the Paleologi; 
v r ent to Italy when very young, and in 1581 entered 
the Society of Jesus. After having taught philosophy 
at Borne and theology at Padua, he was appointed rec- 
tor of the Greek College, which pope Urban VI 11 had 
just established at Borne. He accompanied, as theo- 
logian, the papal legate, cardinal Barberini, to France, 
and died at Borne in 1625. He wrote a large num- 
ber of controversial works against Casaubon, Bright- 
man, John Barclay. Bobert Abbot, and many others. 
Pamphlets against Henr}’- IV and Louis XI II were 
also ascribed to him. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biogr. Gcnir. xvi, 
6G3. (A. J. S.) 

Eudaemomsm (Gr. sveatpovict, happiness), a prin- 
| ciple in philosophical ethics according to which the at- 
tainment of happiness is represented as the true aim 
of life. Those who hold this view are called Ecdje- 
monists. Opposed to eudamionism are all those sys- 
tems of ethics which regard not the pleasure of the in- 
dividual, but the recognition of some universal law as 
the higher principle. Eudannonism lay at the basis 
of the Cvrenaic school founded by Aristippus, and of 
the Epicurean philosophy (q. v.). It was developed 
to its utmost consequences by H-egesias, who taught 
that if no enjoyments are to be expected by men, death 
! is preferable to life. Essentially different from this 
I class of Eudnemonists is the system of Aristotle, who 
regarded virtue as a spiritual enjoyment, and in this 
sense represented ethics as the doctrine of seeking and 
finding a happy life. This view has found adherents 
among Christian writers on ethics, who define and 
treat ethics as the doctrine of a happy life. Others 
have combined with cudaemonism common usefulness, 

I moral sentiment, and perfection, and thus have purified 
! and ennobled it. Belonging properly to the schools 
I of Aristippus and Epicurus are in modern times the 
different systems of sensualism (q. v.) and material- 
ism (q. v.). In an ennobled form, Eudaemonism re- 
j appears in some representatives of the Scotch school, 
who, in opposition to the self-love of Hobbes, develop 
! the longing for universal happiness as the supreme 


EUDES 


345 EUERGETES 


ethical principle. In direct and keen opposition to 
every form of eudsemonism, Kant established the prin- 
ciple of the categorical superlative, according to which 
the good must be done for its own sake, and the mor- 
al law, with the duties emanating from it, can alone 
be made the central principle of ethics. See Kant. 
Schleiermacher assigned to the idea of the highest 
good the highest position in ethics, and likewise reject- 
ed Eudiemonism as a principle. This is now, in gen- 
eral, the attitude of writers on Christian ethics ; the 
thirst of man for happiness is not absolutely rejected, 
but it is found unsuited for a fundamental principle, 
which must be sought in a universal divine law, not 
in the natural longings of the individual. See Eth- 
ics. Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 207. (A. J. S.) 

Elides, Jean, founder of the congregation called 
the Eudists, was born at liye, Normandy, November 
14, 1601, and died at Caen, August 19, 1GS0. At 14 
he commenced his studies under the Jesuits at Caen, 
entered the Congregation of the Oratory in 1623, and 
was ordained priest in 1625. From 1627 to 1632 he 
was engaged in missionary labors among the plague- 
stricken people of Normandy, and in 1642 he became 
superior of the Congregation of the Oratory at Caen. 
Much of his time was spent in missions throughout 
France to reform the clergy. In 1643 he organized a 
new society, which took the name “Eudists,” or the 
“ Congregation of Jesus and Mary,” and soon had nu- 
merous branches in France. Its members were de- 
voted to the education of young candidates for the 
priesthood, and to “missions” (in the Homan Catholic 
sense) among the clergy. Eudes wrote a number of 
books of devotion. The Eudists were scattered at the 
Revolution, but were revived by the abbe Blanchard 
in 1826. They have a college, called St. Gabriel’s, in 
the State of Indiana. 

Eudists. See Eudes. 

Eudo de Stella. See Eon de Stella. 

Eudocia, wife of the emperor Theodosius II, was 
the daughter of Leontius, an Athenian sophist. She 
was called Athenais, and was carefully instructed by 
her father in Greek letters. She was also noted for per- 
sonal beaut}'. On the death of her father, the jealousy 
and avarice of her brothers compelled her to go to Con- 
stantinople, where she appealed to Pulchcria, sister of 
Theodosius II, who was so fascinated by her beauty 
and talent that she induced Theodosius to marry her, 
A.D. 421. She was baptized under the name of Eu- 
docia, and long retained great influence with the em- 
peror. In A.D. 438 she made a splendid pilgrimage 
to Jerusalem. Soon after she was charged with aspir- 
ing to the government of the Eastern empire ; and 
later, with an intrigue with one Paulinus, a courtier. 
About A.D. 449, “the emperor, through jealousy, dis- 
missed all her court, and had her exiled to Palestine, 
where she continued to reside after his death. She 
there embraced the opinions of Eutyches, and sup- 
ported by her liberality and influence the monk Theo- 
dosius, who forced himself into the see of Jerusalem, 
after driving away Juvenal, the orthodox bishop, and 
kept it until he was himself driven away by order of 
the emperor Marcianus. Euthymius. called the Saint, 
by his reasonings brought back Eudocia to the ortho- 
dox faith, after which she spent the remainder of her 
days at Jerusalem, where she died in 460, protesting 
her innocence of the crime with which her husband had 
charged her.” Eudocia wrote several works : (1) Pho- 
tius cpiotes a translation in verse of the first eight 
books of the Old Testament. (2) There is also attribu- 
ted to her a Life of Christ , composed of lines taken from 
Homer, translated into Latin by Eacluird, and pub- 
lished under the title of Ilomerocentra , or Hamerici 
Centones (Gr. and Lat. Francof. 1541, 1554; Par. 1578, 
12mo; Lips. 1793, Svo); an account of the martyr- 
dom of St. Cyprian, Greek and Latin, ed. by Bandini, 
in his Grcecce Eccles. vet. Monmnenta , i, 130-189. — Iloff- 


j mann, Bibliogr. Lex. ii, 63 ; Gibbon, Decline and Fall , 
ch. xxxii. 

Eudoxia, wife of the emperor Arcadius, was born 
* in the year 375, and was married to Arcadius in 395. 
She was the mother of Theodosius II, or the younger. 
Her name is mentioned here on account of her difficul- 
ties with Chrysostom. She used her influence for the 
banishment of Chrysostom, against whom her hatred 
was incited by the unsparing attacks which he made 
against all evil-doers, and especially, it is said, by his 
declaration that she was “a new Herodias, thirsting 
after the blood of John.” She died in 404. — Wetzer 
und Weltc, Kirchen-Lexikon , iii, 736; Hoefer, Nonvelle 
Biog. Generate, xiii, 687 ; Gibbon, Decline and Fall of 
the Roman Empire (Harper’s ed.), iii, 343 et sq. 
Eudoxians. See Eudoxius. 

Eudoxius, an Arian, and bishop of Constantinople, 
was born at Arabissus, in Armenia, first mentioned 
as bishop of Germanicia (near Mount Taurus). About 
356 he obtained by artifice the patriarchate of Antioch, 
where he soon came forward as a patron of the Aetians 
(Theodoret, //. E. bk. ii, chap. 25, 26). Sozomcn says 
that “ when Eudoxius found himself in possession of 
I the Church of Antioch he ventured to uphold the Ac- 
tian heresy openly. He assembled in Antioch all 
those who held the same opinions as himself, among 
whom were Acacius, bishop of Caesarea in Palestine, 
and Urauius, bishop of Tyre, and rejected the terms of 
‘like substance’ and ‘con-substantial,’ under the pre- 
text that they had been denounced by the Western 
bishops” (//. E. bk. ii, ch. 12). Although he was de- 
posed at the synod of Seleucia, vet he does not appear 
to have ever vacated his see ; and on Macedonius be- 
ing ejected from the see of Constantinople, says Soc- 
rates, Eudoxius, who now despised that of Antioch, 
was promoted to the vacant bishopric (//. E. bk. ii, c. 
xliii). , He obtained the see of Constantinople in 359, 
and retained it until his death in 370. Some frag- 
ments remain of a treatise of his De Incarnation e Dei 
Verbi . — Hook, Eccl. Biog. v, 7 ; Ncander, Ch. Hist, ii, 
403-11 ; Cave, Ilist. Lit. (Geneva, 1720), i, 138. 

Euer'getes (Evtpytrtjg, a benefactor ; see Jose- 
phus, War, iii, 9, 8; Diod. Sic. xi, 26; Xenoph. Anab. 
vii, 6, 38; sometimes Anglicized Evergetes), a com- 
mon surname and title of honor (comp. Plato, Gorg. p. 
506 C, and Stallb. ad loc.) in Greek states, conferred 
at Athens by a public vote (Demosth. p. 475), and so 
notorious as to pass into a proverb (Luke xxii, 25). 
It was bestowed by states upon those who had confer- 
red benefits upon them, and was taken by several kings. 
See Ptolemy ; Antiociius. 

A king is mentioned by this title in the 2d prologue 
to Ecclesinsticus, wherein the translator states that, 
having gone into Egypt in the 38th year of king Euer- 
getes, and been there some time, he found this book by 
his grandfather (’Eu yap rig oycoig icai rptaKoarig i'ru 
Itti tov Euepytrou fiamXUog 7rapctytv)]9tig tig A’iyvir- 
rov,Kai cniyxpoviacig, tvpov ou paepdg TraLCtiag cupb- 
potov'). There can be no question that a king of 
Egypt is here meant; for, though a king of Syria could 
be intended by this title, Alexander I, Antioch us VII, 
and Demetrius III being shown by their coins to have 
been styled Euergetes, no one of them reigned more 
than a few years. It is more probable, on prima facie 
grounds, that an Egyptian Euergetes is here spoken of, 
j if the same discrepancy should not be found. Two of 
the Ptolemies bore this title: Ptolemy III, always 
known as Euergetes, who reigned twenty-five years, 
B.C. 247-222, and Ptolemy VII (or IX), Euergetes H, 
more commonly called Physcon, who began to reign 
jointly with his brother Ptolemy VI (or VII), Philome- 
tor, B.C. 170, and became sole king in B.C. 146, dying 
in his fifty-fourth year, reckoned from the former date, 
and the twenty-ninth year of his sole reign, B.C. 117 
(Fynes Clinton, Fasti Hellenici , iii, 382, 383, 386, 399; 
Lepsius, Konigsbuch , Synoptische Tafeln, p. 9). A 


EUGENICUS 


346 


EUGENIUS 


great difficulty lias arisen in the attempt to decide 
which of these kings is intended. Everything hinges 
upon the manner in which the reigns were reckoned. 
There is no satisfactory evidence for supposing that 
Euergetes I counted his regnal years from a time be- 
fore his accession ; the evidence of the inscription at 
Adulc, that Fvnes Clinton adduces in favor of as high 
a date as the 27th year, is wholly inconclusive (p. 382, 
383); besides, the 27th year is far short of the 38th. 
To ascertain the official reckoning of the years of Eu- 
ergetes II, during the latter part of his rule, and thus 
to determine from what date he then counted his reg- 
nal years, we have only to examine the demotic papyii 
of his reign. From these Dr. Young collected a list 
of dates which appeared thirty years ago in his posthu- 
mous Rudiments of an Egyptian Dictionary. These 
dates are year 29, 34, 45, 40, 47 or 43, 52, 53 (p. 27-31). 
It is thus proved incontestably that Physeon counted 
his years from the commencement of his joint reign 
with Pliilometor, without any separate reckoning from 
his accession as sole king of Egypt. The hieroglyphic 
inscriptions, as we would expect, follow r the same reck- 
oning. Thus one of the Apis tablets gives the dates 
of the 28th, 31st, 51st, and 52d years of this king (Lep- 
sins, The 22c/ Egyptian Royal Dynasty , transl. by Dr. 
Bell, p. 41). IVe must not pass by the idea of Jalin 
( Einleitung , ii, 930 sq.), that the 38th year refers to the 
translator’s age instead of a king’s reign. It would be 
better to suppose an a?ra. Three seem possible, the 
jura of the Seleucidae, that of Simon the Maccabee, 
used in Palestine, and the sera of Dionysius used in 
Egypt. The iera of the Seleucidae began B.C. 312, and 
its 38th year is therefore too early for the reign of 
Euergetes I ; the aera of Simon the Maccabee began 
B.C. 143, or a little later, and its 38th year is too late 
for the reign of Euergetes II. The sera of Dionysius 
commenced B.C. 285 (Lepsius, Kbnigsbuch , 1. e.), and 
its 38th year was therefore the last of Ptolemy II, 
Euergetes I coming to the throne in the next year. 
The construction that does not allow the year of the 
reign of Euergetes to be intended, and thus necessi- 
tates some such explanation, is certainly the more cor- 
rect; but as Dr. Davidson, who has laboriously col- 
lected upon this question much criticism which we 
have shown to be needless, observes, we need not 
here look for correct grammar ( Hornet’s Introd. 185G, ii, 
302G-1028). With this admission the usual reading 
cannot be doubted, and the date mentioned would be 
B.C. 133. Other evidence for the time of the compo- 
sition of Ecelesiasticus, which, of course, can be ap- 
proximatively inferred from that of the translation, is 
rather in favor of the second than the first Euergetes. 
— Kitto, s. v. See Ecclesiasticus ; Jesus, Son of 
SniAcir. 

Eugemcus, a Greek theologian, lived in the first 
half of the 15th century. lie began public life as an 
instructor in rhetoric, but bis learning and eloquence 
soon procured him the first positions in the Church, 
and towards 143G he was made archbishop of Ephesus. 
Two years later he accompanied the emperor (John 
Paheologus) to the Council of Florence. Here he not 
only represented his own diocese, hut acted also for the 
patriarchs of Antioch and of Jerusalem. A zealous 
defender of the Greek Church and adversary of the 
Roman, Eugcnicns was the only one who, at the close 
of the council, refused to recognise the pretensions of 
the pope and to sign the acts of the council. On his 
return to Constantinople the people received him with 
great enthusiasm. Even upon his death-bed in 1447, 
he solemnly adjured George the Scholastic to continue 
the strife against the Latins. The numerous writ- 
ings of Eugenicus are of a polemical nature, directed 
against the Latin Church and those prelates of the 
Greek Church who were favorable to the* former. 
Many have never been published, but they are record- 
ed hv Fabricius. We make mention here only of 
his printed works : Letter to the Emperor Palxologus , 


in which he advises the Greeks against the Council of 
Florence, and exposes the intrigues of the Latinists. 
This letter has been translated into Latin, with a reply 
by Joseph of Methane, in Labbe, Concilia , xiii, 677. 
An encyclical letter upon the same subject in Labbe, 
Concilia , xiii, 714; A Treatise on Liturgical Topics ; 
A Profession of Faith , a fragment of which is given 
by Allatius, De Consensu, iii, 3. — Hoofer, Nouv. Biog . 
Gen. xvi, 70G; Fabricius, Bibliotheca Grceca, xi, G70; 
Oudin, Bd'ipt. Eccles. iii, 2343. 

Eugenios Bulgaris. See Bulgaris. 

Eugenius I, Pope, a son of the Roman Rufinianus, 
was elected by the Romans Sept. 8, 654, as successor to 
Martin I, who had been sent into banishment to the 
Thracian Chersonesus by order of the emperor Con- 
stans 1 1, who favored the schism of the Monothelites. 
Martin dying in the following year, Eugenius con- 
tinued in dispute with the court of Constantinople till 
lie died, June 1, G57, and was succeeded by Vitalianus. 
In order to establish peace with the Greeks, his legates 
made an arrangement with Peter, the Monothelite pa- 
triarch of Constantinople, that instead of one or two 
wills in Christ three should be assumed — one substan- 
tial, the two others natural. — Bower, History of the 
Popres , iii, 70. 

II, Pope, a native of Rome, succeeded Paschal I Feb. 
14,824, in the midst of great disorder, which occurred 
at Rome, owing to the corrupt state of society and mal- 
administration of that city. To reform these, the em- 
peror Louis the Good sent his son Lotharius to Rome, 
who corrected many abuses, which, by the account cf 
Eginhardt and other chroniclers, had grown to Tin 
enormous extent. lie confirmed the right of electing 
the pope to the clergy and people of Rome; and the 
Council of Rome, which he convoked on Nov. 1, 826, 
issued many beneficent decrees for the restoration of 
Church discipline, for the establishment of schools, and 
against the worldly occupations of clergymen. He 
died Aug. 827. — Herzog, Real-Encyldop (idle , iv, 214; 
Bower, History of the Popes , iv, 205. 

III, Pope. He was a monk of Citeanx, disciple 
and friend of St. Bernard, and afterwards abbot of St. 
Anastasius. He was elected to the pontifical chair of 
Rome Feb. 27, 1145. He appears to have been a very 
sincere disciple of Bernard, and anxious, like him,jto 
reform the manners of the clergy and consolidate the 
papal power. Through the greater part of his pon- 
tificate, owing to the turbulence of the Roman people 
["see Arnold of Brescia], he was unable to reside 
in the cit} r . This circumstance, however, did not hin- 
der his being acknowledged as pope, or his exercising 
the functions of his office. During his reign the sec- 
ond ernsade, under the preaching of St. Bernard, was 
undertaken. Sec Crusaders. Shortly after its mor- 
tifying failure the pontiff died at Tivoli, July 8, 1153. 
See Neander, Bernard und s. Zeit. 190-29G ; Herzog, 
Real-EncyHop. iv, 214. 

IV, Pope, Gabriele Condolmicre, a native of Venice, 
succeeded Martin A' as pope March 3, 1431. At the 
early age of twenty-four lie was made by pope Gregory 
XII, with whom he was related, bishop of Siena, and 
soon after (1408) cardinal. “ II is was a most stormy 
pontificate. He drove away the powerful family of 
Colonna, including the nephews of the late pope, from 
Rome, charging them with having enriched them- 
selves at the expense of the papal treasury. He after- 
wards made war against the various lords of Romagna, 
who were supported by the Visconti of Milan. But 
the greatest annoyance to Eugenius proceeded from 
the Council of Basle, which had been convoked by his 
predecessor, and which protracted its sittings year af- 
ter year, broaching doctrines very unfavorable to the 
papal supremacy. See Basle, Council of. Eugeni- 
os, who had been obliged to escape from Rome in dis- 
guise on account of a popular revolt, and had taken 
up his residence at Bologna in 1437, issued a bull dis- 


EUGIPPIUS 


347 


EULALIA 


solving the council, recalling his nuncio who presided 
at it, and convoking another council at Ferrara. See 
Ferrara. Most of the fathers assembled at Basle re- 
fused to submit, and summoned the pope himself to 
appear before them, to answer the charge of simony, 
schism, and others, and after a time proceeded against 
him as contumacious, and deposed him. Eugenius 
meanwhile had opened in person his new council at 
Ferrara in Februaiy, 1438, in which, after annulling 
all the obnoxious decrees of the Council of Basle, he 
launched a bull of excommunication against the bish- 
ops who remained in that assembly, which he charac- 
terized as a ‘satanic conclave, which was spreading 
the abomination of desolation into the bosom of the 
Church.’ The Catholic world was divided between 
the two councils ; that of Basle proceeded to elect a 
new pope in the person of Amadeus VIII of Savoy, 
who assumed the name of Felix V, and was solemnly 
crowned at Basle. Eugenius encouraged the Hunga- 
rians and Foies to break the peace they had solemnly 
sw^orn with the Turks, under pretence that their oaths 
were not valid without the sanction of the pope ; he 
even sent cardinal Julian as his nuncio to attend the 
Christian army. The result was the battle of Varna, 
1444, in which the Christians were completely defeat- 
ed, and king Ladislaus of Poland and cardinal Julian 
lost their lives. Eugenius died at Borne Feb. 23, 1447. 
He left the Church in a state of schism between him 
and his competitor Felix, his own states a prey to war, 
and all Christendom alarmed at the progress of the 
Turkish arms” ( English Cyclopedia ). See Bower, 
History of the Poqies, vii, 238. 

Eugippius, or Eugyppius, a learned monk, who 
lived at the close of the fifth and the beginning of the 
sixth century. He seems to have been the descend- 
ant of an Italian family, and was at first monk in the 
monastery of St. Severin (q. v.) at Fariana, in Noricum 
(near the present Pochlaru, in Austria), subsequently 
in the monastery of Castrum Lucullanum (now Gas- 
tello del Novo, belonging to the city of Naples). He 
is sometimes called “ abbot,” but it is doubtful wheth- 
er he was, in the later years of his life, abbot of Lu- 
cullanum, or whether the name was only given him as 
an honorary title. He is the author of a life of his 
teacher, St. Severinus {Vita St. Severing publ. by Ca- 
nisius, A ntiq . Led . t. vi, in A eta Sanctorum, Jan. 8; and 
by Welser, Augsb. 1594), which is a very important 
contribution to the Church history of Germany. He 
also compiled a collection of Thoughts and Sentences 
from the works of St. Augustine {Thesaurus A uyustin- 
ianeus (Basle, 1542; Venice, 1513), which was dedica- 
ted to the Roman virgin Proba. The author of the 
second work was formerly believed by some writers to 
be a different person from the author of the life of St. 
Severin, but this opinion has now been generally aban- 
doned. Among the letters of Fulgentius (q. v.) of 
Ruspe, there is one addressed to Eugippius ; a letter 
of Eugippius to Fulgentius is lost. Eugippius was 
also in literary connection with Dion) sins Exiguus. 
There is a monastic rule which is ascribed to Engip- 
pius, but it was early superseded by that of St. Bene- 
dict. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 217. (A. J. S.) 

Euhemerus, a Greek historian, philosopher, and 
traveller, lived about the year B.C. 300. It is not ex- 
actly known whether lie was born at Messina (in Sici- 
ly), at Tegea (in the Peloponnesus), on the isle of Cos, or 
at Agrigentum. He belonged to the Cyrenaic school, 
well known for its scepticism in religious matters. 
As bold as the other philosophers of this school, and 
more systematic, Euhemerus proposed a general inter- 
pretation of the myths, which has been justly com- 
pared with modern German Rationalism. An exposi- 
tion of his doctrine is given by Diodorus Siculus. 
“Euhemerus,” he says, “friend of Cassander (king 
of Macedonia B.C. 320-296), was intrusted by this 
prince with certain missions to some of the Southern 


countries. On his way he passed in the Indian Ocean 
a group of isles, of which the largest was called Pan- 
chaia. The Panchmans were distinguished for their 
piety, and honored the gods bv sacrifice and offerings 
of gold and silver.” They worshipped Jupiter, and 
such other gods as we meet with in Grecian mytholo- 
gy ; but all these gods were really men distinguished 
for great actions, and deified on account of them. On 
his return from the voyage Euhemerus wrote a Sacred 
History (lepd dvaypapif), in about nine books, in which 
he showed, according to Lactantius and Arnobius, that 
these gods were but men (Lactantius, De Falsa Reliy - 
ione, i, 11). A Latin translation was made by the poet 
Ennius. Of this translation only ninety-five lines now 
remain (Amsterdam, 1707). This work contains the 
history of the gods of the Pan ch seans, of the people 
and their manners, Euhemerus himself leaning in fact 
to the doctrines of the Panchfeans. The form in which 
he presented his system was not entirely new, for Pla- 
to had adopted a similar course in his Republic; the 
germ of the system itself is to be found in some pas- 
sages of Herodotus and Thucydides. The originality 
of Euhemerus consists in exaggerating, and in carry- 
ing out even to absurdity, the idea that Mythology 
contains certain historical elements. In effect, he re- 
solved all mythology into history, maintaining that 
the gods “were originally illustrious kings, deified af- 
ter death either by the spontaneous reverence of the 
people or by the cunning of the rulers.” But mytholo- 
gy contains, aside from this, so much that bears on as- 
tronomy, the physical sciences, metaphysics, and, most 
of all, so much of fiction, that it is next to impossible 
to determine what in this confusion is truly historical. 
Some historians, like Diodorus Siculus, who have at- 
tempted to interpret mythology after the plan of Eu- 
hemerus, have succeeded only in substituting prosaic 
1 fiction for the imaginative popular legends. The pa- 
gan writers generally treat Euhemerus with severity. 
After the origin of Christianity, the views of Euheme- 
rus, as containing the satires of a pagan on pagan re- 
ligions, were made great use of in argument by the 
Church fathers against paganism, with some exagger- 
ations, perhaps, of the doctrines of Euhemerus. Ter- 
tullian, Clement of Alexandria, Minucius Felix, Cyp- 
rian, Lactantius, Chrysostom, in arguing against pa- 
ganism, adopt the view of Euhemerus, that the wor- 
j ship of great men was the original source of all idola- 
try, and gave birth to all the pagan divinities. In 
1641,Vossius, following an idea of Tertullian, sought 
to show that the gods of paganism were the patriarchs 
of the 0. T. : Serapis was Joseph; Janus, Noah; Mi- 
nerva, Naomi, etc. II net, bishop of Avranches, dis- 
covered Moses in Osiris and Bacchus, as well as in 
many other pagan divinities. Euhemerism, as a meth- 
od of interpreting the ancient mythology, was sup- 
planted by the symbolism of Kreuzer, a system infi- 
nitely superior to the other two above mentioned, but 
still containing much that is illusory and erroneous. — 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. Generate, xvi, 828; Donaldson, 
History of Christian Literature and Doctrine (see In- 
dex) ; Gerlach, Historische Studien (Hamb. 1841, 8vo) ; 
Leckv, History of Rationalism , i, 327 ; Brucker, Hist. 
Crit. PhUosophice , i, 604 sq. ; Clinton, Fasti llellemci 
(Oxon. 1830), ii, 481; Meiners, Hist. Doct. apud Gre- 
cos, ii, 664 sq. ; Fabricius, Bibliotheca Grccca , iii, 616; 
Hoffman, Bibliographisches Lexicon , i, 65 ; Milman, 
History of Christianity (New York, 1866), i, 49, note. 
See Mythology. 

Eulalia, a saint of the Church of Rome, was horn 
at Merida, Spain, in 290. She was the descendant of 
a noble Christian family. When the general perse- 
cution of Christians began under Maximian, Eulalia, 
contrary to the directions given by the Church, volun- 
tarily sought martyrdom by presenting herself to the 
prefect of Lusitania, remonstrating w ith him against 
idolatry and the persecution of Christianity, and by 
personally insulting him (spitting in his face, etc.). 


EUL ALIUS 


348 


EUMENES 


She was consequently burned alive Dec. 10 (or 12), 303 
(or 304). Her relies were preserved at Merida, and 
many miracles were ascribed to them at the time of the 
invasion of the Goths and Vandals. Barcelona also 
claims the possession of the relics of St. Eulalia, and 
the legend of this saint is so much like that of Eulalia 
of Merida that it is generally believed that the two arc 
only one person, and that, as is common in the Church 
of Borne, the same relics arc claimed by two cities. — 
Hoofer, Xovv. Blog. Genii', xvi, 708. (A. J. S.) 

Eulalius, anti- Pope, lived in the first part of the 
fifth century. Created arch-cardinal by Innocent I, 
he was, after the death of pope Zosimus, near the close 
of the year 418, through the influence of Symmachus, 
elected pope in opposition to Boniface I, who had been 
elected b}>- a legal majority. For several months he 
contended against Boniface, but finally the emperor 
Honorius decided in favor of Boniface, being persuaded 
that Eulalius had been illegally elected, and gave or- 
ders to Symmachus, the governor of the city of Home, 
to drive Eulalius from the city, and to put Boniface in 
possession of the sec. Eulalius thereupon left Home, 
and became bishop of Kepi. After the death of Boni- 
face, at the election of Cclestine I, the friends of Eula- 
lius offered to contend again in his favor, but he 
promptly declined the papal dignity. — Bower, History 
of the Popes, i, 358 sq. ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xvi, 
709; Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iii, 750; Jaffe, 
Regesia Pontijicum Romanoruni. (J. H. W.) 

Eulogia (ev\oy Ui). (1.) A term used in reference 
to the consecrated bread of the Eucharist. In the 
early Church, at the end of mass, the loaves offered 
by the faithful (not consecrated) were blessed by the 
celebrant, and distributed as a sign of communion, as 
they now are in the Greek Church, to those who had 
not communed, and formerly to catechumens who 
were not admissible. They were called eulogies or 
aniidora, compensations, by the Council of Antioch in 
341. 

(2.) E5Xoy/« was one of the early titles of the sacra- 
ment of the Lord’s Supper, and appears to have been 
taken from the language of Paul when he says, “The 
cup of blessing which we bless” — ru Trorgpiov t 7]Q ev- 
Xoyiag. Down to the time of Cyril and Chrysostom, 
euXoyici is used synonymously with fuyapurnu, but 
after the fifth century the term was appropriated to the 
bread set apart from the oblations for the poor and the 
clergy. To this custom we may refer the origin of 
private masses, and of communion in one kind. 

(3.) The practice of giving the eulogia also tends to 
explain the custom of non-communication which sprang 
up in the Church about the same time. The faithful 
who did not communicate retired from the assembly 
before the celebration of the Lord’s Supper began, but 
not without receiving the benediction of the minister. 
The Jideles were soon divided into two classes — commu - 
nicantes and non-commnnicantes— of which the Church 
knew nothing in earlier ages. The Council of Nantes, 
about A.D. 890, ordered the presbyters to keep some 
portions of the oblations in a proper vessel, so that 
those persons who were not prepared to communicate 
might, on every festival and Lord’s day, receive some 
of the eulogia , previously blessed with a proper bene- 
diction. — Bingham, Orig. Eccl. bk. x, eh. ii, §16; bk. 
xv, ch. iv, § 3; Kiddle, Christ. Antiquities , p. 545, 578. 

Eulogius, patriarch of Alexandria from 581 to 608. 
Pope Gregory I makes particular mention of him as a 
successful polemic against the Nestorians, Severians, 
Theodosians, Cainites, Acephalians, and Agnoetrc. 
Photius preserves numerous fragments of his writings, 
lie died in 608. — Wetzer und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iii, 
753, 751 ; Fabricius, Bill. Grceca , (ed. I Luries), x, 753. 

Eulogius of Cordova was in 859 elected arch- 
bishop of Toledo, but, by the supposition of the Moors, 
lie was not permitted to enter upon the duties of his 
office. He was a learned and brave defender of 


Christianity against Mohammedanism, and sealed his 
love for the cause by his own blood, being behead- 
ed by the Moors, March 11, 859, for the assistance 
which he had rendered a young girl who had been 
converted and by him baptized in the Christian faith. 
His writings are : Memorials Sanctorum sive libri iii 
de Murtynbus Cordubensibas , a work in which the gloiy 
of the Spanish martyrs of his times is recorded Ex - 
hortaiio ad martyrium sire documentum martyriale ad 
Floram et Mariam virgines confessores : — Apologeticus 
pro martyrilus adversus calumniatores, in which he de- 
nies the assertion that the Christians desired martyr- 
dom. He also wrote letters to the bishop Wilifindus 
of Pampeluna, his friend A1 varus, and others. His 
remains are to be found in Schott, Ilispania Jllustrata , 
vol. iv ; in the Bibliotheca Patrum , xv, 242 ; also in 
Migne, Patrol. Lai. tom. cxv. A biography of Eulo- 
gius, written by his friend A1 varus, is also in Migne, 
t. cxv. — Ceillicr, Hist, des Aut. Sac. et Eccl. xix, 64; 
Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iii, 754, 755; Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Gen. xvi, 719 ; Herzog, Real-Eticyldop. iv, 
220 ; Fabricius, Bibliotheca Grceca , iv, 257 ; Clarke, Sa- 
cred Literature , vol. ii. 

Eulogy. See Funeral. 

EuTiatan (’E vvcitciv v. r. 'EXvaSrli/, Vulg. Enna - 
gam ), given (1 Esd. viii, 44, where it is perhaps but an 
original misprint for Ennatan ) as the name of one of 
the principal men directed by Ezra to procure priests 
for the returning party of exiles ; apparently a corrup- 
tion for the second Elnatiian (q. v.) of the Ileb. text 
(Ezra viii, 16). 

Euni'ce (E vri Kip good victory , origin all}* the name 
of one of the Nereids), the mother of Timothy, and the 
wife of a Greek; spoken of (2 Tim. i, 5) as possessing 
unfeigned faith, and described in Acts xvi, 1 as a be- 
lieving Jewess ( yvv /} To vdaia mori]). A.D. ante 47. 
See Timothy. 

Eu'menes (Eupsvtic, well-disposed) II, king of 
Pergamns, and son of Attains I. His accession to the 
throne is fixed by the death of his predecessor to B.C. 
197 (Clinton, F. II. iii, 403). He inherited from his 
father the friendship and alliance of the Homans, and 
when peace was made in B.C. 196 with Philip V, king 
of Macedonia, he was presented with the towns of 
Oreus and Eretria in Eubcea (Livy, xxxiii, 34). In 
B.C. 191 Eum cues and the Homans engaged the fleet 
of Antiochus (Livy, xxxvi, 43—15), and, seeing more 
than ever the policy of adhering to the Homans, he, in 
the following }*ear, rendered them valuable assistance 
at the battle of Magnesia, commanding his own troops 
in person (Livy, xxxvii, 39-44; Justin, xxxi, 8; Ap- 
pian, Syr. 34). As soon as peace was concluded, B.C. 
188, Eumenes set out for Home to ask some rewards 
for his services. The senate were pleased with the 
modesty of his behavior, and conferred upon him the 
Thracian Chersonese, Lysimachia, both Phrvgias, Mys- 
ia, Lycaonia, Lydia, and Ionia, with some exceptions. 
One province only would have much enlarged his do- 
minions, but by this large addition to his territory he 
found himself one of the most powerful of monarchs 
(Livy, xxxvii, 56 ; xxxviii, 39 ; Polvb. xxii, 27 ; Ap- 
pian, Syr. 44). About the same time he married the 
daughter of Ariarathes IV, king of Cappadocia (Livv, 
xxxviii, 09). Eumenes continued in good favor with 
the Homans for several years, and repeatedly sent em- 
bassies to them. In B.C. 172 he again visited Home, 
and in returning nearly lost his life through the treach- 
ery of Perseus, king of Macedonia (Livy, xlii, 11-26). 
In B.C. 169 Eumenes is said to have had secret corre- 
spondence with Perseus, b}’ - which aet he lost the favor 
of the Homans (Polyb. Frag. Vat. xxix, Didot ed. p. 
39, 40), and two }*ears after he was forbidden to enter 
Home (Livy, Epit. xlvi). The latter part of his reign 
was disturbed by frequent wars with Prusias, king of 
Bithvnia. The Homans favorably received his brother 
Attalus, apparently for the purpose of exciting him 


EUNOMIANS 349 EUNOMIUS 


against Eumenes, who had sent him to Home. . Atta- 
lus, however, was induced, through the entreaties of a 
physician named Stratius, to abandon any such ideas. 
Eumenes thus managed to keep on friendly terms with 
his brother and the Homans till his death (Livy, xlv, 
ID, 20; Polyb. xxx, 1-3; xxxi, 0; xxxii, 5). The 
exact date of his death is not mentioned by any writer, 
but it must have taken place in B.C. 159 (Clinton, /. 
II. iii, 406). Eumenes II much improved the city of 
Pergamus by erecting magnificent temples and other 
public buildings. His greatest act was the foundation 
of a splendid library, which rose to be a rival in extent 
and value even to that of Alexandria (Strabo, xiii, 4, 
Didot ed. p.533; Pliny, xxii, 11 (see Smith, Diet, of 
Class. Biog. s. v.). — Ivitto, s. v. See Pekgajius. 

The large accession of territory which was granted 
to Eumenes from the former dominions of Antioclms 
is mentioned 1 Mace, viii, 8, but the present reading 
of the Greek and Latin texts offers insuperable diffi- 
culties. “The Romans gave him,” it is said, “the 
country of India and Media , and Lydia, and parts of 
his (Antioelius's) fairest countries («7ro rw v tca\\. x w “ 
piov avr on).” This is particularly out of the ques- 
tion, for neither India nor Media ever belonged to An- 
tioch us or the Romans. Various conjectures have 
been proposed to remove these obvious errors ; but, 
though it may reasonably be allowed that J fysia may 
have stood originally for Media (^0^3 for Micha- 
elis), it is not equally easy to explain the origin of \oj- 
pav Ti)v ’IvdiKgv. Grotius, without any MS. author- 
ity, conjectured Ionia to be meant, which agrees with 
the account of Livy (xxxvii, 55). It is possible that 
TiaW/i' may have been substituted for ’hovaeijv after 
MfphW was already established in the text. Other 
explanations are given by Grimm, Exeg. llandb. ad 
loc. ; Wernsdorf, Defile Libr . J lace. p. 50 so., hut they 
have less plausibility. Josephus states the matter hut 
summarily (J nt. xi, 10, 6). — Smith, s. v. 

Eunomians, a sect of Arians, so called after their 
founder, Eunomius. See Eunomius. 

Eunomius, a bishop and founder of a sect of Ari- 
ans. He was born in the village of Dacora, in Cappa- 
docia, and is described by his admirer, Philostorgius, 
as ugly in appearance, and somewhat stammering, 
lie was educated by his father until, under the advice 
of the Arian bishop Sccundus, of Antioch, he went 
to Alexandria, where he became the disciple, associ- 
ate, and notary of Aetius (q. v.), the head of the Ano- 
moeans. On a journey which he undertook to visit the 
emperor, he was seized by the Semiarians and sent to 
Phrygia ; hut in 360, his friend Eudoxius, formerly 
bishop of Antioch, hut who had recently been called to 
Constantinople, procured for him the see of Cyzicum. 
There lie proclaimed his views, first cautiously and 
moderately, hut soon openly and unreservedly. The 
people of Cyzicum loudly complained of him, and, 
though he defended himself at Constantinople with 
great eloquence, he was abandoned by Eudoxius, who 
prevailed upon him to resign, since he was unwilling 
to subscribe the formula of Ariminnm, or approve the 
deposition of Aetius. After this time Eunomius acted 
as the acknowledged head of the party. Under Juli- 
an, who recalled all the exiled bishops, Eunomius was 
with Aetius m Constantinople, disseminating their 
views, collecting adherents, and consecrating bishops, 
who settled in many regions of Asia Minor, Syria, and 
Egypt. Being suspected of intimate relations with 
Procopius, a rebel against the authority of emperor 
Valens, he was twice exiled, hut each time soon re- 
called. In 383 the emperor Theodosius demanded 
from all the prominent men of the several religious 
parties an explanation of their theological views, re- 
jected the profession of faith made by Eunomius, had 
him arrested at Chalcedon and exiled to Halmyris, in 
Mcesia, and from there to Caesarea, in Cappadocia. 
From there, when his longer stay was not tolerated, 


he returned to his native place, where he died about 
396. 

Eunomius wrote a commentary on the Epistle to 
the Romans, and a number of letters, which were 
known to Photius. Both the commentary and the 
letters are lost. His first defence ( ciTroXoyjjri/coc ), 
which was written either in 360 or (according to Rett- 
berg) in 365, called forth a long reply from Basil. 
From several manuscripts of the latter, the text of this 
work of Eunomius has been restored. It is partly giv- 
en by Cave ( Hist . Liter. Genev. 1720, i, 139), and com- 
pletely by Fabricius ( liiblioth . Gr&ca, viii), Canisius 
( Led . Antiq. i), and Thilo ( Biblioth . dogmat. ii). A 
second defence (o 7 r*p airoXoyiag «7ro\oyt«, as Gregory 
calls it) elicited in reply the twelve orations of Greg- 
ory of Nyssa. The fragments of Eunomius contained 
in the work of Gregory have been collected by Rett- 
berg ( Marcelliana , p. 125). His profession of faith 
(ticOtcriQ rtjg 7 noTtiof), which Eunomius in 383 present- 
ed to the emperor Theodosius, has been published by 
Valesius (notes to Socrates, v, 10), Fabricius (l. e.), 
Cave (/. c.), and Rettherg ( Marcelliana , p. 149). 

Eunomius was one of the prominent leaders of the 
Arians. He was capable, keen, undaunted, and full 
of contempt for his opponents. He had a keener dia- 
lectic faculty than Arius, and anticipated Dcs Cartes 
in making clearness the test of truth. u An opponent 
of whatever was inconceivable and transcendental, he 
pursued knowledge in a one-sided direction, not deeply 
speculative, but proceeding from an empirical under- 
standing to make everything clear, which was his prin- 
cipal aim. In short, he advocated an intelligent su- 
pranaturalism, in which a rationalistic tendency was 
concealed, similar to what we find in Socinus” (Nean- 
der, Hist, of Dogmas , ed. Hyland, i, 264). The follow- 
ing account of the confession of faith of the Eunomians 
is given by Cave (vol. i, p. 140), from a manuscript in 
archbishop Tennison’s library : “ There is one God, 
uncreated and without beginning, who lias nothing ex- 
isting before him, for nothing can exist before what is 
uncrente; nor with him, for what is unereate must he 
one ; nor in him, for God is a simple and nncompound- 
ed Being. This one simple and eternal Being is God, 
the Creator and Ordaincr of all things. For God cre- 
ted, begot, and made the Son only, by his direct opera- 
ation and power, before all things, and every other 
creature ; not producing, however, any being like him- 
self, or imparting any of his own proper substance to 
his Son ; for God is immortal, uniform, and indivisi- 
ble, and therefore cannot communicate any part of his 
own proper substance to another, lie alone is unbe- 
gotten, and it is impossible that any other being should 
he formed of an unbegotten substance. He did not 
use his own substance in begetting his Son, hut his 
will only : nor did he beget him in the likeness of his 
substance, hut according to his own good pleasure. 
He then created the lloly Spirit, the first and greatest 
of all spirits, hv his own power and operation mediate- 
ly, yet by the immediate power and operation of the 
Son. After the Holy Spirit, lie created all other things 
in heaven and in earth, visible and invisible, corporeal 
and incorporeal, mediately by himself, by the power 
and operation of his Son.” 

The adherents of Eunomius, who were very numer- 
ous, were, together with those of Aetius, condemned 
as heretics by the second Oecumenical Council. Af- 
ter the death of Eunomius, the Eunomians fully separ- 
ated from the communion of the predominant Church. 
Some factions called themselves after prominent teach- 
ers, as Eutychius, Theophronius. The Church gave 
them a number of nicknames, as orofiovrat, spadones. 
They baptized, not upon the Trinity, but upon the 
death of Christ. They did not exist long as a sect, 
hut soon died out, in consequence of internal dissen- 
sions and numerous secessions to the dominant Church. 
— TIerzog, ReuLEncyklop. iv, 220; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. 
i, 248, 301 , Tillemont ; Dorner, Lehre Christi, i . 815 


EUNUCH 


350 


EUNUCH 


(Edinb. transl., div. i, vol. ii, p. 243) ; Neander, Church 
Hist, ii, 319—425 ; Clarke, Sacred Liter, i, 818; Schatf, 
Church History , iii, § 121. (A. J. 8.) 

Eunuch (iuvov\oq) has, in its literal (Greek) sense, 
the harmless meaning of “ bed-keeper,” i. e. one who 
has the charge of beds and bed-chambers ; but as only 
persons deprived of their virility have, from the most 
ancient times, been employed in Oriental harems, and 
as such persons are employed almost exclusively in 
this kind of service, the word bed-keeper'’ became 
synonymous with “ castratus.” Castration, according 
to Josephus (J??f. iv, 8, 40), was not practised by the 
Jews upon either men or animals (see Beast) ; yet 
the custom is frequently referred to in the Bible by 
the Hebrew term C n “iO ( saris' , Sept. tvvov\oQ ; Vnlg. 
spado; A. V. “ eunuch.” “officer,” and “ chamber- 
lain,” apparently as though the word intended a class 
of attendants who were not always mutilated), which 
(from the Arabic root saras , to be impotent ad Venerem) 
clearly implies the incapacity which mutilation in- 
volves (Isa. Ivi, 8; Sirach xx, 20 [21]), and perhaps 
includes all the classes mentioned in Matt, xix, 12, not 
signifying, as the Greek furocyoe, an office merely. 
The law, Dent, xxiii, 1 (conip. Lev. xxii, 24), is repug- 
nant to thus treating any Israelite ; and Samuel, when 
describing the arbitrary power of the future king (1 
Sam. viii, 15, marg.), mentions “his eunuchs,” but 
does not say that he would make “ their sons” such. 
This, if we compare 2 Kings xx, 18; Isa. xxxix, 7, 
possibly implies that these persons would be foreign- 
ers. It was a barbarous custom of the East thus to 
treat captives (Herod, iii, 49 ; vi, 32), not only of ten- 
der age (when a non-development of beard, and femi- 
nine mould of limbs and modulation of voice ensues), 
but, it would seem, when past puberty, which there 
occurs at an early age. Physiological considerations 
lead to the supposition that in the latter case a rem- 
nant of animal feeling is left, which may explain 
Ecclus. xx, 4 ; xxv, 20 (comp. Juv. vi, 36C, and Mart, 
vi, 07 ; Philostr. Apoll.Tvan. i, 37 ; Ter. Eun. iv, 3, 24), 
where a sexual function, though fruitless, is implied. 
Busbeeq (Ep. iii, 122, Oxf. 1C0O) seems to ascribe the 
absence or presence of this to the total or partial char- 
acter of the mutilation ; but modern surgery would 
rather assign the earlier or later period of the opera- 
tion as the real explanation. (Comp. Juv. xii, 35; 
Philo, Opp. i i, 264 ; Miehna, Yebaim , viii, 2 ; Dent, xxiii, 
2 ; see Gesenius, Tkes. p. 338 ; Paul. JEgin. vi, 68 ; 
Fischer,' "Proluss. p. 497 ; Pierer, Medic. Iteahc. I, ii, 63.) 
It is total among modern Turks (Tournefort, ii, 8, 9, 
10, ed. Par. 1717, taille* a Jkur de ventre') ; a precaution 
arising from mixed ignorance and jealousy. The “of- 
ficer” Potiphar (Gen. xxxvii, 36 ; xxxix, 1, marg. “eu- 
nuch’') was an Egyptian, was married, and was the 
“ captain of the guard.” The Jewish tradition is that 
Joseph was made a eunuch on his first introduction to 
Egypt ; and yet the accusation of Potiphar’s wife, his 
marriage and the birth of his children, are related sub- 
sequently without any explanation. (See Targum 
Pseudojon. on Gen. xxxix, 1 , xli, 50; and the details 
given at xxxix, 13.) On the Assyrian monuments a 
eunuch often appears, sometimes armed and in a war- 
like capacity, or as a scribe, noting the number of 
heads and amount of spoil, as receiving the prisoners, 
and even as officiating in religious ceremonies (Lay- 
ard, Xinereh, ii, 824-6, 334.) A bloated beardless face 
and double chin is there their conventional type. See 
Attiue. Chardin (Voyages en Perse , ii, 283, ed. Amst. 
1711) speaks of eunuchs having a harem of their own. 
If Potiphar had become such by operation for disease, 
by accident, or even by malice, such a marriage seems, 
therefore, according to Eastern notions, supposahle. 
(See Grotius on l)eut. xxiii, 1 ; comp. Burckhardt, 
Trav. m Arab, i, 290.) Nor is- it wholly repugnant to 
that barbarous social standard to think that the pros- 
pect of rank, honor, and royal conlidence might even 


induce parents to thus treat their children at a later 
age, if they showed an aptness for such preferment. 
The characteristics as regards beard, voice, etc., might 
then perhaps be modified, or might gradually follow. 
The Poti-pherah of Gen. xli, 50, whose daughter Joseph 
married, was “priest of On,” and no doubt a different 
person. (See Delphini, Eunuchi conjugium , Hal. 1680.) 

The origination of the practice is ascribed to Semi- 
ramis (Amin. Marcell, xiv, 6), and is no doubt as early, 
or nearly so, as Eastern despotism itself. Their inca- 
pacity, as in the case of mutes, is the ground of reli- 
ance upon them (Clarke’s Travels , pt. ii, § 1, 13: Bus- 
becq, i);. i, 33). By reason of the mysterious distance 
at which the sovereign sought to keep his subjects 
(Herod, i, 99; comp. Esth. iv, 11), and of the malig- 
nant jealousy fostered by the debased relation of the 
sexes, such wretches, detached from social interests 
and hopes of issue (especially when, as commonly, and 
as amongst the Jews, foreigners), the natural slaves 
of either sex (Esth. iv. 5), and having no prospect in 
rebellion save the change of masters, were the fittest 
props of a government resting on a servile relation, 
the most complete organs of its despotism or its lust, 
the surest (but see Esth. ii, 21) guardians (Xenoph. 
Cyi'Op. vii, 5, § 15; Herod, viii, 105) of the monarch's 
person, and the sole confidential witnesses of his un- 
guarded or undignified moments. Hence they have 
in all ages frequently risen to high offices of trust. 
Thus the “ chief” of the cup-bearers (q. v.) and of the 
cooks of Pharaoh were eunuchs, as being near bis per- 
son, though their inferior agents need not have been 
so (Gen. xl, 1). (Wilkinson [.I nc. Egypt , ii, 61] de- 
nies the use of eunuchs in Egypt. Herodotus, indeed 
[ii, 9 l], confirms bis statement as regards Egyptian 
monogamy; but if this as a rule applied to the kings, 
they seemed, at any rate, to have allowed themselves 
concubines [p. 181]. From the general beardless char- 
acter of Egyptian beads, it is not easy to pronounce 
whether any eunuchs appear in the sculptures or not.) 
The complete assimilation of the kingdom of Israel, 
and latterly of Judah, to the neighboring models of 
despotism, is traceable in the rank and prominence of 
eunuchs (2 Kings viii, 6; ix, 32; xxiii, 11; xxv, 19; 
Isa. Ivi, 3, 4 ; Jer. xxix, 2 ; xxxiv, 19 ; xxxviii, 7 ; xli, 
16; Iii, 25). They mostly appear in one of two rela- 
tions — either military, as “set over the men of war,” 
greater trustworthiness possibly counterbalancing in- 
ferior courage and military vigor, or associated, as we 
mostly recognise them, with women and children. (2 
Chron. xxviii. 1 is remarkable as ascribing eunuchs to 
the period of David, nor can it be doubted that Solo- 
mon's polygamy made them a necessary consequence ; 
but in the state they do not seem to have played an 
important part at this period.) We find the Assyrian 
Pah-Saris, or chief eunuch (2 Kings xviii, 17), em- 
ployed, together with other high officials, as ambassa- 
dor. Similarly, in the details of the travels of an em- 
bassy sent by t lie duke of Holstein (p. 136), we find a 
eunuch mentioned as sent on occasion of a state-mar- 
riage to negotiate, and of another (p. 273) who was the 
JSIeheter , or chamberlain of Shah Abbas, who was al- 
ways near his person, and had his ear (eemp. Chardin, 
iii, 37), and of another, originally a Georgian prisoner, 
who officiated as supreme judge. Fryer ( Travels in In- 
dia and Persia, p. 1698) and Chardin (ii, 283) describe 
them as being the base and ready tools of licentious- 
ness, as tyrannical in humor, and pertinacious in the 
authority which they exercise ; Clarke ( Travels in Eu- 
rope, etc., pt. ii, § 1, p. 22), as eluded and ridiculed by 
those whom it is their office to guard. A great num- 
ber of them accompany the shall and his ladies when 
hunting, and no one is allowed, on pain of death, to 
come within two leagues of the field, unless the king 
sends a eunuch for him. So eunuchs run before the 
closed arabahs of the sultanas when abroad, crying out 
to all to keep at a distance. This illustrates Esth. i, 
10, 12, 15, 16 ; ii, 3, 8, 14. The moral tendency of this 


EUNUCHS 


351 


EUPHRATES 


sad condition is well known to be the repression of 
courage, gentleness, shame, and remorse, the develop- 
ment of malice, and often of melancholy, and a dispo- 
sition to suicide. The favorable description of them 
in Xenophon (l. c.) is overcharged, or, at least, is not 
confirmed by modern observation. They are not more 
liable to disease than others, unless of such as often 
follows the foul vices of which they are the tools. The 
operation itself, especially in infancy, is not more dan- 
gerous than an ordinary amputation. Chardin (ii, 
285) says that only one in four survives; and Clot 
Bey, chief physician of the pasha, states that two 
thirds die. Bnrckhardt, therefore (Xub. p. 329), is mis- 
taken when he says that the operation is only fatal in 
about two out of a hundred cases. See Harem. 

It is probable that Daniel and his companions were 
thus treated, in fulfilment of 2 Kings xx, 17, 18; Isa. 
xxxix, 7 ; comp. Dan. i, 3, 7. The court of Herod of 
course had its eunuchs (Josephus, Ant. xvi, 8, 1 ; xv, 

7, 4), as had also that of queen Candace (Acts viii, 27). 
Michaelis (ii, 180) regards them as the proper conse- 
quence of the gross polygamy of the East, although 
his further remark that they tend to balance the sexu- 
al disparity which such monopoly of women causes is 
less just, since the countries despoiled of their women 
for the one purpose are not commonly those which fur- 
nish male children for the other. 

In the three classes mentioned in Matt, xix, 12, the 
first is to be ranked with other examples of defective 
organization ; the last, if taken literally, as it is said to 
have been personally exemplified in Origen (Euseb. 
Eccl. Hisi. vi, 8; see Zcrn, JJe eunuchismo Origenis , 
Giess. 1708), is an instance of human ways and means 
of ascetic devotion being valued by the Jews above re- 
vealed precept (see Schottgen, Ilor. lleb. i, 159). Our 
Saviour in that passage doubtless refers to the volun- 
tary and ascetic celibacy of the Essenes (q. v.). But 
a figurative sense of tvvovxog (comp. 1 Cor. vii, 32, 34) 
is also possible. See Celibacy. 

In the A. V. of Esther the word “ chamberlain” 
(marg. “eunuch”) is the constant rendering of D“HO, 
saris , and as the word also occurs in Acts xii, 20, and 
Bom. xvi, 23, where the original expressions are very I 
different, some caution is required. In Acts xii, 20, 
to i' tiri too KotT&vog tov fiamXhog may mean a 
“chamberlain” merely. Such were persons of public 
influence, as we learn from a Greek inscription pre- 
served in Walpole's Turkey (ii, 559), in honor of I\ 
Aelius Alcibiades, “chamberlain of the emperor” (ii rt 
icotribvog 2s/3.), the epithets in which exactly suggest 
the kind of patronage expressed. In Bom. xvi, 23, 
the word t7ri7p07rog is the one commonly rendered 
“ steward” (e. g. Matt, xx, 8 ; Luke viii, 3), and means 
the one to whom the care of the city was committed. 
See generally Salden, Oita Theol. de Eunuchis , p. 494 
sq. — Smith, s. v. See Chamberlain. 

In Deut. xxiii, 1 one mutilated by crush - 

ing, i. e. the testicles, Sept, technically SXcictag), and 
also probably in Lev. xxi, 20 (q'^X ITh 1 ?, onG crvs ^~ 
ed as to his testicles , Sept, partially /mnopytt;), the allu- 
sion is to a peculiar kind of emasculation still practised 
in the East, according to the Greek physicians (Panins 
ASgineta, bk. vi), which consists in softening the testi- 
cles of very young boys in warm water, and then rub- 
bing and pressing them till they disappear. As the 
heathen priests were often thus qualified for office, 
persons so mutilated were excluded from the Jewish 
Church. See Asiitoretii. 

Eunuchs, a sect of heretics in the third century, 
who were said to be mad enough to emasculate them- 
selves under the assumption that they should thus 
eradicate their evil propensities, and qualify them- 
selves for performing, in a more holy and acceptable 
manner, the duties of religion. Origen was the sub- 
ject of this miserable delusion. The practice is prev- 


alent at this day in Russia, among the sect of the 
Skoptzi (q. v.). In the Council of Nicaai persons of 
this class were condemned, and excluded from holy 
orders (Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v.). See Celibacy and 
Valesians. 

Euo'dias, or, rather, Euodia (E votita, a good 
journey ; for, as found in Phil, ix, 2, Evodtar is fern., 
since the following verse refers to that and the asso- 
ciated name by avralg and a'irtpeg), a female member 
of the Church at Philippi, who seems to have been at 
variance with another female member named Synty- 
che. A.D. 57. Paul describes them as women who 
had “labored much with him in the Gospel,” and im- 
plores them to be of one mind (Philip, iv, 2, 3). 
Euodius. Sec Evodius. 

Euphemites. See Messalians. 

Euphrates is the Greek form {Ev^pcirgg') of the 
river designated in Ileb. by the name Phratii or re - 
rath' (H*">S, which Gesenius regards as i. q. u sweet wa- 
ter,” referring to the present Arabic name Frah as 
having that signif. ; but Fiirst refers to an obsolete 
root indicating the impetuous character of the stream), 
and is probably a word of Arian origin, the initial ele' 
ment being which is in Sanscrit sn , in Zend hu, 
and in Greek tv ; and the second element being fra, 
the particle of abundance. The Euphrates is thus 
“ the good and abounding river.” It is not improba- 
ble that in common parlance the name was soon short- 
ened to its modern form of Frat, which is almost ex- 
actly what the Hebrew literation expresses. But it 
is most frequently denoted in the Bible by the term 
han-nahar i. e. “the river,” the river of Asia, 
in grand contrast with the shortlived torrents of Pal- 
estine, being by far the most considerable stream in 
that part of the continent. Thus, in Exod. xxiii, 31, 
we read, “from the desert unto the river” (comp. Isa. 
viii, 7). In like manner, it is termed in Deut. i, 7 
“the great river.” The Euphrates is named in the 
cuneiform inscriptions (q. v.). 

1. It is first mentioned in Gen. ii, 14, where the Eu- 
phrates is stated to be the fourth of the rivers which 
flowed from a common stream in the garden of Eden. 
Its celebrity is there sufficiently indicated by the ab- 
sence of any explanatory phrase, such as accompanies 
the names of the other streams. See Eden. We 
next hear of it in the covenant made with Abraham 
(Gen. xv, 18), where the whole county from “the 
great river, the river Euphrates,” to the river of Egypt 
is promised to the chosen race. In Deuteronomy and 
Joshua we find that this promise was borne in mind 
at the time of the settlement in Canaan (Deut. i, 7 ; 
xi, 24 ; Josh, i, 4) ; and from an important passage in 
the first book of Chronicles it appears timt the tribe of 
Reuben did actually extend itself to the Euphrates in 
the times anterior to Saul (1 Chron. v, 9). Here they 
came in contact with the llagarites, who appear upon 
the Middle Euphrates in the Assyrian inscriptions of 
the later empire. It is David, however, who seems 
for the first time to have entered on the full enjoyment 
of the promise by the victories which he gained over 
Hadadezer, king of Zobah, and his allies, the Syrians 
of Damascus (2 Sam. viii, 3-8 ; 1 Chron. xviii, 3). The 
object of his expedition was “to recover his border,” 
and “to stablish his dominion by the river Euphra- 
tes;” and in this object he appears to have been alto- 
gether successful, in so much that Solomon, his soil, 
who was not a man of war, but only inherited bis fa- 
ther’s dominions, is said to have “reigned over all 
kingdoms from the river (i. e. the Euphrates) unto the 
land of the Philistines and unto the border of Egypt” 
(1 Kings iv, 21 ; comp. 2 Chron. ix, 2G). Thus, during 
the reigns of David and Solomon, the dominion of Is- 
rael actuall}’ 1 attained to the full extent both ways of 
the original promise, the Euphrates forming the bound- 
ary of their empire to the north-east, and the river of 


EUPHRATES 


352 


EUPHRATES 


Egypt to the south-west. This wide-spread dominion 
was lost upon the disruption of the empire under Ee- 
hoboam ; and no more is heard in Scripture of the 
Euphrates until the expedition of Nccho against the 
Babylonians in the reign of Josiah. The “ Great Riv- 
er" had meanwhile served for some time as a boundary 
between Assyria and the country of the Hittites (see 
Assyria], but had repeatedly been crossed by the ar- 
mies of the Xinevite kings, who gradually established 
their sway over the countries upon its right bank. 
The crossing of the river was always difficult, and at 
the point where certain natural facilities tixed the or- 
dinary passage the strong fort of Carchemish had been 
built, probably in very early times, to command the 
position. See Cakciiemisii. Hence, when Necho 
determined to attempt the permanent conquest of 
Syria, his march was directed upon “Carchemish bv 
Euphrates” (2 Chron. xxxv, 20), which he captured 
and held , thus extending the dominion of Egypt to the 
Euphrates, and renewing the old glories of the Rames- 
side kings. His triumph, however, was short-lived. 
Three years afterwards the Babylonians — who had 
inherited the Assyrian dominion in these parts — made 
an expedition under Nebuchadnezzar against Necho, 
defeated his army, “which was hv the river Euphra- 
tes in Carchemish” (Jer. xlvi, 2), and recovered all 
Syria and Palestine. Then “ the king of Egypt came 
no mere out of his land, for the king of Babylon had 
taken from the river of Egypt unto the river Euphra- 
tes all that pertained to the king of Egypt” (2 Kings 
xxiv, 7). 

These are the chief events which Scripture distinct- 
ly connects with the “ Great River.” The prophets 
made use of the Euphrates as a figurative description 
of the Assyrian power, as the Nile with them repre- 
sented the power of Egypt; thus, in Isa. viii, 7, “ The 
Lord bringeth up upon them the waters of the river, 
strong and many, even the king of Assyria” (Jer. ii, 
18; comp. Rev. ix, 14; xvi, 12). It is probably in- 
cluded among the “ rivers of Babylon,” by t lie side of 
which the Jewish captives “remembered Zion” and 
“wept” (Psa. cxxxvii, 1); and no doubt is glanced 
at in the threats of Jeremiah against the Chaldaean 
“waters” and “springs,” upon which there was to be a 
“drought” that should “dry them up” (Jer. I, 38 ; li, 
20). The fulfilment of these prophecies has been no- 
ticed under the head of Ciialdasa. The river still 
brings down as much water as of old, but the precious 
element is wasted by the neglect of man ; the various 
water-courses along which it was in former times con- 
veyed are dry, the main channel has shrunk, and the 
water stagnates in unwholesome marshes. 

It is remarkable that Scripture contains no clear 
and distinct reference to that striking occasion when, 
according to profane historians (Herod, i, 191 ; Xenoph. 
C/jrop . vii, 5), the Euphrates was turned against its 
mistress, and used to effect the ruin of Babylon. The 
brevity of Daniel (v, 30, 31) is perhaps sufficient to 
account for his silence on the point; but it might have 
been expected from the fulness of Jeremiah (eh. 1 and 
li) that so remarkable a feature of the siege would not 
have escaped mention. AVe must, however, remem- 
ber, in the first place, that a clear prophecy may have 
been purposely withheld, in order that the Babj'loni- 
ans might not be put upon their guard. And, second- 
ly, we may notice that there does seem to be at least 
one reference to the circumstance, though it is covert, 
as it was necessary that it should be. In immediate 
conjunction with the passage which most clearly de- 
clares the taking of the city by a surprise is found an 
expression which reads very obscurely in our version 
— “the passages are stopped” (Jer. li, 32). Here the 
Hebrew term used (r‘V^21**C) applies most properly to 
“fords or ferries over rivers” (comp. Judg. iii, 28); 
and the whole passage may best be translated, “the 
ferries are seized” or “occupied ;” which agrees very 


well with the entrance of the Persians by the river, 
and with the ordinary mode of transit in the place, 
where there was but one bridge (Herod, i, 180). The 
fords were at Thapsacus (Xenoph. A nab, i, 4, 11). 

2. The Euphrates is the largest, the longest, and by 
far the most important of the rivers of Western Asia. 
It rises from two chief sources in the Armenian moun- 
tains, one of them at Dornli, 25 miles N.E. of Erze- 
roum, and little more than a degree from the Black 
Sea; the other on the northern slope of the mountain 
range called Ala-Tagh, near the village of Diyadin, 
and not far from Mount Ararat. The former, or 
Northern Euphrates, has the name Frdt from the first, 
but is known also as the Kara-Su (Black River); the 
latter, or Southern Euphrates, is not called the Frdt, 
but the Murad Chat, yet it is in reality the main river. 
Both branches flow at the first towards the west or 
south-west, passing through the wildest mountain dis- 
tricts of Armenia ; they meet at Kebban-Madcn, near- 
ly in long. 39° E. from Greenwich, having run re- 
spectively 400 and 270 miles. Here the stream formed 
by their combined waters is 120 yards wide, rapid, and 
very deep; it now flows nearly southward, but in a 
tortuous course, forcing a way through the ranges of 
Taurus and anti-Taurus, and still seeming as if it 
would empty itself in the Mediterranean, but pre- 
vented from so doing by the longitudinal ranges of 
Amanus and Lebanon, which here run parallel to the 
Syrian coast, and at no great distance from it; the 
river at last desists from its endeavor, and in about 
lat. 30° turns towards the south-east, and proceeds in 
this direction for above 1000 miles to its embouchure 
in the Persian Gulf (Ilerod. i, 180; Strabo, ii, 521; 
Ptolem. v, 13; Pliny, Fist. Nat. v, 20; Q. Curt, i, 13; 
Orbis Terr arum, C. Kaercher Auct.). In conjunction 
with the Tigris, it forms the rich alluvial lands of Me- 
sopotamia (q. v.), over which it flows or is carried by 
canals, and thus diffuses abroad fertility and beauty. 
At Bagdad and Hillah (Babylon), the Euphrates and 
Tigris approach comparatively near to eacli other, but 
separate again, forming a kind of ample basin, till 
they finally become one at Koorma. Under the C«u?- 
sars the Euphrates was the eastern boundary of the 
Roman empire, as under David it was the natural 
limit of the Hebrew monarchy. See Tigris. 

The last part of its course, from Hit downwards, is 
through a low, flat, and alluvial plain, over which it 
has a tendency to spread and stagnate; above Hit, 
and from thence to Sumeisat (SamosataA, the country 
along its banks is for the most part open, but hilly ; 
north of Sumeisat the stream runs in a narrow valley 
among high mountains, and is interrupted by numer- 
ous rapids. The entire course is calculated at 1780 
miles, nearly G50 more than that of the Tigris, and 
only 200 short of that of the Indus; and of this dis- 
tance more than two thirds (12(0 miles) is navigable 
for boats, and even, as the expedition of colonel Ches- 
ney proved, for small steamers. The width of the 
river is greatest at the distance of 700 or 800 miles 
from its mouth — that is to say, from its junction with 
the Khabour to the village ot* Wevai. It there aver- 
ages 400 yards, while lower down, from A Vera i to 
Lamlnn, it continually decreases, until at the last- 
named place its width is not more than 120 yards, its 
depth having at the same time diminished from an av- 
erage of 18 to one of 12 feet. The causes of this sin- 
gular phenomenon are the entire lack of tributaries 
below the Khabour, and the employment of the water 
in irrigation. The river has also in this part of its 
course the tendency already noted, to run off and 
waste itself in vast marshes, which every year more 
and more cover the alluvial tract west and south of 
the stream. From this cause its lower course is con- 
tinually varying, -and it is doubted whether at present, 
except in the season of the inundation, any portion of 
the Euphrates water is poured into the Shat -cl- Arab. 

In point of current it is for the most part a slug- 


EUPHRATES 


353 


EUPHRATES 


ish stream ; for, except in the height of the flooded 
season, when it approaches 5 miles an hour, it varies 
from 2£to 3-|, with a much larger portion of its course 
under o than above. Its general description for some 
distance below Erzingan is that of a river of the first 
order, struggling through high hills, or rather low 
mountains, making an exceedingly tortuous course as 
it forces its way over a pebbly or rock}" bed from one 
natural barrier to another. As it winds round its nu- 
merous barriers, it carries occasionally towards each 
of the cardinal points a considerable body of water, 
and is shallow enough in some places for loaded cam- 
els to pass in autumn, the water rising to their bellies, 
or about 4£ feet. The upper portion of the river is 
inclosed between two parallel ranges of hills, covered 
for the most part with high brushwood and timber of 
moderate size, having a succession of long, narrow 
islands, on several of which are moderate-sized towns ; 
the borders of this ancient stream being still well in- 
habited, not only by Bedouins, but by permanent resi- 
dents. The following towns may be named : Sumeis- 
at, Haorum, Jiomkala, Bir, Giaber, Deir, Eava, Anna, 
Hadisa, El-lis, Jibba, Hit, llillah, Lemlun, Korna, and 
Bussora. The scenery above Hit, in itself very pic- 
turesque, is greatly heightened by the frequent re- 
currence of ancient irrigating aqueducts, beautiful 
specimens of art, which are attributed by the Arabs 
to the Persians when fire-worshippers : they literally 
cover both banks, and prove that the borders of the 
Euphrates were once thickly inhabited by a highly 
civilized people. They are of stone. Ten miles be- 
low Hit is the last of these. The country now be- 
comes flatter, with few hills; the river winds less; 
and the banks are covered with Arab villages of mats 
or tents, with beautiful mares, cattle, and numerous 
flocks of goats and sheep. From Hit to Babylon the 
black tent of the Bedouin is almost the only kind of 
habitation to be seen. This distance is cultivated only 
in part ; the rest is desert, with the date-tree showing 
in occasional clusters. In descending, the irrigating 
cuts and canals become more frequent. Babylon is 
encircled by two streams, one above, the other below 
the principal ruin, beyond which they unite and pro- 
duce abundance. For about thirty miles below llil- 
lah both banks have numerous mud villages, imbed- 
ded in date-trees : to these succeed huts formed of bun- 
dles of reeds. The country lower down towards Lem- 
lun is level, and little elevated above the river; •irri- 
gation is therefore easy : in consequence, both banks 
are covered with productive cultivation, and fringed 
with a double and nearly continuous belt of luxuriant 
date-trees, extending down to the Persian Gulf. At 
one mile and a half above the town of Dewania is the 
first considerable deviation from this hitherto majestic 
river; another takes place 2*2 miles lower; and nine 
miles farther — at Lemlun — it again separates into two 
branches, forming a delta not unlike that of Damietta, 
and, when the river is swollen, inundating the country 
for a space of about 60 miles in width with a shallow 
sheet of water, forming the Lemlun marshes, nearly 
the whole of which is covered with rice and other 
grain the moment the river recedes (in June). Here 
mud villages are swept away by the water every year. 
Below Lemlun the Tigris sends a branch to the Eu- 
phrates, which is thus increased in its volume, and, 
turning to the east, receives the chief branch of the 
Tigris, thence running in one united stream, under the 
name of the Shat-el-Arab, as far as the sea (the Per- 
sian Gulf). In this last reach the river has a depth 
of from 3 to 5 fathoms, varies in breadth from 500 to 
900 yards, and presents banks covered with villages 
and cultivation, having an appearance at once imposing 
and majestic. The length of that part of the river, 
reckoning from Bir to Bussora, navigable for large ves- 
sels at all times of the year, is 143 miles. It is very 
anundant in fish. The water is somewhat turbid, but, 
when purified, is pleasant and salubrious. The Ara- 
III.— Z 


bians set a high value on it, and name it Morad-Su ; 
that is, Water of desire, or longing. 

The annual inundation of the Euphrates occurs in 
the month of May. The river begins to rise in March, 
and continues rising till the latter end of May. The 
consequent increase of its volume and rapidity is at* 
tributable to the early rains, which, falling in the Ar- 
menian mountains, swell its mountain tributaries ; and 
also, in the main, to the melting of the winter snows in 
these lofty regions. About the middle of November 
the Euphrates has reached its lowest ebb, and, ceas- 
ing to decrease, becomes tranquil and sluggish. The 
greatest rise of the Tigris is earlier, since it drains 
the smithern flank of the great Armenian chain. The 
Tigris scarcely ever overflows [see Hiddekel], hut 
the Euphrates inundates large tracts on both sides of 
its course from Hit downwards. The great hydraulic 
works ascribed to Nebuchadnezzar (Abyden. Fr. 8) 
had for their great object to control the inundation by 
turning the waters through sluices into canals pre- 
pared for them, and distributing them in channels over 
a wide extent of country. “When the Euphrates,” 
says Rich, “reaches its greatest elevation, it overflows 
the surrounding country, fills up, without the neces- 
sity of any human labor, the canals which are dug for 
the reception of its waters, and thus amazingly facili- 
tates the operations of husbandry. The ruins of Baby- 
lon are then inundated, so as to render many parts in- 
accessible, the intermediate hollows being converted 
into marshes” ( Babylon and Persepolis , p. 54). Rau- 
wolf observes, “ The water of the Euphrates, being al- 
ways troubled, and consequently unfit for drinking, is 
placed in earthen jars or pitchers for an hour or two, 
until the sand and other impurities sink to the bottom, 
where they are soon found lying to the thickness of a 
man’s finger” (comp. Jer. ii, 18 ; xiii, 4—7). Mr. Ains- 
worth says, “ The period at which the waters of the 
Euphrates are most loaded with mud, are in the first 
floods of January; the gradual melting of the snows 
in early summer, which preserves the high level of 
the waters, does not at the same time contribute much 
sedimentary matter. From numerous experiments 
made at Bir in December and January, 1836, I found 
the maximum of sediment mechanically suspended in 
the waters to be equal to one eightieth part of the bulk 
of fluid, or every cubic inch of water contained one 
eightieth part of its bulk of suspended matters ; and 
from similar experiments, instituted in the month of 
October of the same year, at the issue of the waters 
from the Lemlum marshes, I only obtained a maximum 
of one two hundredth part of a cubic inch of water 
(mean temp. 74°). The sediments of the river Eu- 
phrates, which are not deposited in the upper part of 
the river’s course, are finally deposited in the Lemlum 
marshes. In navigating the river in May, 1836, the 
water flowing into the marshes was colored deeply by 
mud, but left the marshes in a state of comparative 
purity” ( Researches , p. 110, 111). 

The Euphrates has at all times been of some impor- 
tance as furnishing a line of traffic between the East 
and the West. Herodotus speaks of persons, probably 
merchants, using it regularly on their passage from 
the Mediterranean to Babylon (Her. i, 185). lie also 
describes the boats which were in use upon the stream 
(i, 194), and mentions that their principal freight was 
wine, which he seems to have thought was furnished 
by Armenia. It was, however, more probably Syrian, 
as Armenia is too cold for the vine. Boats such as he 
describes, of wicker-work, and coated with bitumen, 
or sometimes covered with skins, still abound on the 
river (Chesney, Euphrates , ii, 639-651). Men wishing 
to swim across or along the stream simply throw them- 
selves upon an inflated skin and thus float, precisely 
in the manner described by ancient writers, and de- 
picted on the Assyrian sculptures (Botta, Nineveh, p. 
238 sq.). Alexander appears to have brought to Baby- 
lon by the Euphrates route vessels of some considera- 


EUPHRATES 


354 


EUROCLYDON 


hie size, which he hail hail made in Cyprus and Phoeni- 
cia. They were so constructed that they could be taken 
to pieces, and were thus carried piecemeal to Tkapsa- 
cus, where they were put together and launched (Aris- 
tobul. ap. Strab. xvi, 1, 11). The disadvantage of the 
route was the difficulty of conveying return cargoes 
against the current. According to Herodotus, the 
boats which descended the river were broken to pieces 
and sold at Babylon, and the owners returned on foot 
to Armenia, taking with them only the skins (i, 191). 
Aristobulus, however, related (ap. Strab. xvi, 3, 3) that 
the Gerrhajans ascended the river in their rafts not 
only to Babylon, but to Thapsacus, whence they car- 
ried their wares on foot in all directions. The spices 
and other products of Arabia formed their principal 
merchandise. On the whole, there are sufficient 
grounds for believing that throughout the Babylonian 
And Persian periods this route was made use of by the 
merchants of various nations, and that by it the east 
and west continually interchanged their most impor- 
tant products (see Layard's Nineveh and Babylon , p. 
45G, 457). Caravans were employed above Thapsa- 
cus (Heeren, Asiatic Nations , i, 429, 430). The empe- 
ror Trajan constructed a fleet in the mountains of Nisi- 
bis, and floated it down the Euphrates. The emperor 
Julian also came down the river from the same moun- 
tains with a fleet of not fewer than 1100 vessels. A 
great deal of navigation is still carried on from Bag- 
dad to Ilillah, the ancient Babylon, but the disturbed 
state of the country prevents any above the latter 
place. In the time of queen Elizabeth merchants from 
England went by this river, which was then the high 
road to India. There were anciently many canals 
which connected the Tigris with the Euphrates ; many 
of them are still in being. The Euphrates steamer 
passed from the Euphrates to the Tigris by the Iva 
canal, which leaves the former a few miles above Fc- 
lugo, and enters the latter a short way below Bagdad. 
Tlie steam navigation of the Euphrates must be a ques- 
tion of considerable importance, and colonel Chesney 
has proved that it may be navigated as high as Bir by 
steamers drawing four feet of water ; yet it can hardly 
be expected that it can ever be made available as an 
ordinary channel between Europe and India. Its nav- 
igation would undoubtedly confer the greatest advan- 
tages on the inhabitants of the vast and fertile coun- 
tries through which it flows, should they once more be 
emancipated from the barbarism under which they 
have so long been oppressed. 

3. See, for a general account of the Euphrates, colo- 
nel Ckesncy’s Euphrates Expedition , vol. i ; and, for the 
lower course of the stream, compare Loftus’s Chahlcea 
and Susieina . See also Kawlinson’s Herodotus , vol. i, 
Essay ix; and Layard’s N inert k and Babylon , chaps, 
xxi and xxii ; AVakl’s A sien, p. 700 ; Bitter’s Erdh. ii, 
120 ; Traite Element. Geographique (Bruxelles, 1832), 
vol. ii ; Mannert’s Geoyr. ii, 142 ; Reichard’s A7. Geoyr. 
Schr'f. p. 210 ; Parliam. Hep. of Steam Navigation to 
India (1834) ; M'Culloch’s Geograph. Diet. s. v. ; Ains- 
worth's Travels in Asia Minor, etc. (1842); Ker Por- 
tcr, Travels , ii, 403; Forbiger, Alte Geographic , ii, 09 
sq. ; liosenmuller, Alterth. I, i, 188 sq. — Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. Sec Babylon. 

Euphrates, bishop of Cologne, was the successor 
of bishop Maternus. lie was present at the Synod of 
Sardica in 347, and was sent by the bishops of that 
synod with recommendatory letters from the emperor 
Constance to the emperor Constantius to obtain the 
recall of the exiled catholic bishops. The report that 
a synod held at Cologne in, 340 deposed Euphrates for 
not believing in the divinity of Christ is now general- 
ly regarded as spurious. The acts of this pretended 
synod were prohabl}' compiled in the eighth century', 
ami arc from beginning to end a forgery. — AVetzer und 
^A cite, Kirchen-Lex'tk. xii, 241 ; Rettbcrg, Kirchcn-Ge- 
sehichte Beutsehlands, vol. i. (A. J. S.) 

Eupol'emus (Ev7r6\tpo£,good in war , a frequent 


Greek name), the “ son of John, the son of Accos'' (q. 
v.), one of tiic envoys sent to Rome by Judas Macca- 
beus, B.C. cir. 101, to negotiate an alliance with the 
Romans (1 Macc. viii, 17 ; Josephus, Ant. xii, 10, G). 
lie has been identified (Euseb. Prap. Ev. ix, 17 sq.) 
with the historian of the same name (Josephus, Apion, 
i, 23), who wrote several works on the affairs of the 
Jews (Kuhlmey, Eupolemi fragmenta , Berlin, 1840, 
8vo); but it is bv no means clear that the historian 
was of Jewish descent (yet comp. Jerome, de Vir. Illustr. 
38). His father, John (q. v.), is spoken of as having 
procured special privileges for the Jews from the Syri- 
an kings (2 Macc. iv, 11). 

EurocGydon (EupofcXiVwiqq. d. south-east billow ), 
the name given (Acts xxvii, 14) to the gale of wind in 
the Adriatic Gulf, which off the south coast of Crete 
seized the ship in which Paul was ultimately wrecked 
on the coast of Malta. See Shipwreck of Paul. 
The circumstances of this gale are described with 
much particularity, and they admit abundant illustra- 
tion from the experience of modern seamen in the Le- 
vant. In the first place it came down from the island 
(par avrge), and therefore must have blown more or 
less from the northward, since the ship was sailing 
along the south coast, not far from Mount Ida, and on 
the way from Fair-Havens towards Phoenice. So 
Captain Spratt, after leaving Fair-Havens with a 
light southerly wind, fell in with “a strong northerly 
breeze blowing direct from Mount Ida” (Smith, Voyage 
and Shipwreck of St. Paul , 1850, p. 97, 245). Next, the 
wind is described as being like a tyjihoon (mod .tujf'one, 
i. e. “striker”) or whirlwind (rv<ptoviKuc,A.Y. “tem- 
pestuous;” comp, rvtptbv, Aristot. Meteor. 1; De Mundo, 
iv, 18) ; anil the same authority speaks of such gales 
in the Levant as being generally “accompanied by 
terrific gusts and squalls from those high mountains” 
(Conybeare, Life and Epistles of St. Paul, 185G, ii, 401). 
It is also observable that the change of wind in the 
voyage before us (xxvii, 13, 14) is exactly what might 
have been expected ; for Captain J. Stewart observes, 
in his remarks on the Archipelago, that “it is always 
safe to anchor under the lee of an island with a north- 
erly wind, as it dies away gradually, but it would be 
extremely dangerous with southerly winds, as they 
almost invariably shift to a violent northerly wind” 
(Purdy’s Sailing Directory, pt. ii, p. Gl). The long dura- 
tion of the gale (“the fourteenth night.” ver. 27), the 
overclouded state of the sky (“neither sun nor stars ap- 
pearing,” ver. 20), and even the heavy rain which con- 
cluded the storm (rbv vtrav, xxviii, 2), could easily be 
matched with parallel instances in modern times (see 
Smith, Voyage a?id Shipwreck, p. 144; Conybeare, Life 
and Epp. ii, 412). AVe have seen that the wind was 
more or less northerly. The context gives us full ma- 
terials for determining its direction with great exacti- 
tude. The vessel was driven from the coast of Crete 
to Clauda (xxvii, 10), and apprehension was felt that 
she would be driven into the African Syrtis (v. 17). 
Combining these two circumstances with the fact that 
she was less than half way from Enir-IIavens to Phoe- 
nice when the storm began (v. 14), we come to the 
conclusion that it came from the N.E. or E.N.E., and 
hence might fitly he termed a north-easter. This is 
quite in harmony with the natural sense of E vpaicvXiov 
(Vulg. Euro-aquilo, i. e. north-east wind, the modern 
Gregalia of those seas), which is regarded as the true 
reading by Bentley, and is found in some of the best 
MSS. ; but we are disposed to adhere to the received 
text, more especially as it is the more difficult read- 
ing, and the phrase used by Luke (o KaXovptroc E vpo- 
k\ vetov) seems to point to some peculiar word in use 
among the sailors. Alforil thinks that the true name 
of the wind was evpcacvXtor, hut that the Greek sailors, 
not understanding the Latin termination, corrupted 
the word into ivpaicXvdiov, and that so Luke wrote it 
( Comment . in loc.). — Smith, s. v. Such winds are 
known to modern mariners in the Mediterranean by 


EUROPE 


»355 


EUSEBIUS 


the name of Levanters. They are not confined to any 
single point, but blow in all directions from the north- 
east round by the north to the south-east. The “great 
wind” or mighty tempest experienced by the prophet 
Jonah on his way from Joppa to Tarshish (1, 4 ; comp, 
the destructive “east wind” of Psa. xlviii, 7) appears 
to have been one of these gales (comp. Josephus, liar, 
iii, 8, 3, who calls it the u black north wind,” peXap - 
fiopetoi'). See Wind. 

Europe, the smallest, but also the most highly 
civilized and most populous of the three great divi- 
sions of the old continent. 

I. It is separated from America on the west and 
north-west by the Atlantic ; from Africa on the south 
by the Mediterranean ; and from Asia by the Archi- 
pelago, Sea of Marmora, Black Sea, Caucasian ridge, 
Caspian Sea, Ural Iliver and Mountains, and the Kara 
River. It is in the form of a huge peninsula, project- 
ing from the north-west of Asia. Its extent from 
Cape St. Vincent on the south-west to the mouth of the 
Kara River on the north-east is 3400 miles ; and from 
Cape Nordknn, the most northerly point of the Scandi- 
navian main land, to Cape Matapan, the southmost 
point of Greece, 2400 miles. The continent of Europe, 
irrespective of islands, lies within lat. 36° 1' — 71° 6' 
N., and long. 9° 30' W. — G8° 30 / E. Its area is esti- 
mated at nearly 3,800,000 square miles ; and its coast- 
line, more extensive in proportion to its size than that 
of any other great natural division of the globe, is esti- 
mated at 19,500 miles, giving a proportion of 1 linear 
mile of coast for every 190 square miles of surface. It 
had in 1868 a population of 293,000,000, which gives 
an average of about 77 for every square mile. 

II. Church History. — Europe early received the seed 
of Christianity from the apostles themselves. The 
territory embraced in what is now Turkey, Greece, 
and Italy was for many years the scene of the apos- 
tolic labors of Paul, who founded a number of church- 
es, and wrote epistles to the Romans, Corinthians, and 
Thcssalouians. Whether he visited Spain, England, 
and other countries of Europe, as has been asserted by 
some writers, is doubtful. Peter is claimed by the 
Roman Catholic Church to have been for twenty-five 
3 'ears bishop of Rome. The fact of his having been 
in Rome, and having presided for several years over 
the Church there, is generally recognised by most of 
the historians. The share of the other apostles in the 
Christianization of Europe is doubtful, and the ac- 
counts of their missionary labors rest more on legends 
than historic documents (see the articles on each of 
the apostles, and each of the European countries) ; but 
it is a well-established fact that, even before the 
close of the first century, numerous churches were es- 
tablished in Turkey, Greece, Malta, Italy, France, 
Spain, and Southern and Western Germany. The 
growing authority of the bishops of Rome [see Roman 
Catholic Church] soon made Europe the centre of 
the Christian world. When Constantine became a 
Christian, the Christianization of all that portion of 
Europe which belonged to the Roman empire made 
rapid progress, and was soon completed. In the fifth 
and sixth centuries, Spain, France, Scotland, England, 
and several German tribes became Christian. Chris- 
tianity steadily advanced in all directions, but it was 
not until the sixteenth century that every pagan peo- 
ple of Europe had adopted the Christian doctrine. In 
the meanwhile, however, part of the Christian territo- 
ry in Southern Europe had been conquered by the Mo- 
hammedans, who at one time even hoped for the con- 
quest of all Europe. They lost, however, in the course 
of the following centuries, most of their conquests, re- 
taining only the control of one empire in Eastern Eu- 
rope. Thus Europe has been for many centuries a 
predominant^ Christian division of the world, while 
of both Asia and Africa only small sections became 
Christian. The schism between the Greek and the 
Latin churches became complete in the ninth century, 


and the ecclesiastical connection between Eastern and 
Western Europe has been interrupted ever since. Still 
greater became the alienation between the countries 
which adhered to the Reformation of the sixteenth cen- 
tury and those over which the Church of Rome retain- 
ed control, and more than one destructive war grew 
out of this division. Sec Reformation; Protest- 
antism. 

III. Ecclesiastical Statistics. — The following tabular 
statement of the statistics of the Roman Catholic, Pro- 
testant, and Eastern churches, prepared by Prof. A. J. 
Schem, is taken from the American Year-hook for 1869. 


Countries. 


Total 

Population. 


Roman 

Catholic. 


Portugal 

Azores and! 
Madeira. . jf 

Spain 

Andorra 

France 

N. German) 
Confed. . . / 
S. Germ. States 

Austria 

Italy 

Papal States.. 
San Marino . . 

Monaco 

Switzerland . . 

Holland 

Luxemburg. 

Belgium 

Great Britain, 
lleligol’d, ) 
Gibraltar, > 
and Malta) 

Denmark 

Faroe and) 
Iceland . . ) 

Sweden 

Norway 

Turkey 

Roumania. . 

Servia 

Montenegro. 

Greece 

Ionian Islds. 
Russia 


Total *2! 


3, 937, SGI j | 
363, 05S i 

16,302,625' 

12,000 

38,067,094 

29,332,S34 
S, 524, 460 
35,292,547 
24,368,787 
723,121 
5,700 
1 , 88 ’ 
2,510,494 
3,552,G05 
206,574 
4,984,451 
29,935,404 

1G3,6S3 

1,608,095 

75,909 

4,070,061 
1,701,478 
13,544,000 
3,S04,S4S 
1,07S,2S1 
196,238 
1,096, SI 1 1 
251,712 
07,260,431 
93,083,708 


■4,340,000 

TO, 280, 000 

12,000 

36.000. 000 

7.875.000 

4.935.000 

27.000. 000 

24.000. 000 
710,000 


l,023,ii()0 


>6,100,000 


5,000 

v 700,000 

■ 60,000 
6,769,000 


Protestant. 

Eastern 

Churches. 

7,000 


10,000 


1,600,000 

20,682,000 

2,000 

3.351.000 

3.600.000 
60,000 

1,000 

3,200,000 

1.482.000 

2.200.000 


25,000 


23,400,000 


1,675,000 


5,760,000 


50,000 

12,500,000 

3,000 

1,270,000 

4,122,009 

52, SI 0,000 


142,117,500 


68,028,00: i j 09, 782, o(ki 


It will be seen from the above table that the East- 
ern churches (or, more particularly, the Greek Church) 
prevail in Russia, Turkej’-, and Greece. In Turkey 
the government is Mohammedan, but the majority of 
the population belong to the Greek Church. The 
Roman Catholic Church prevails in Portugal, Spain, 
France, the South German States, Austria, Italy (in- 
clusive of the Papal States, San Marino and Monaco), 
and Belgium, while Protestantism is the prevailing 
religion in the North German Confederation, Switzer- 
land, Holland, Great Britain, Denmark, Sweden, and 
Norway. (A. J. S.) 

Eusebians, a name given to the Arians from Eu- 
sebius of Nicomedia. See Eusebius of Nicomedia. 

Eusebius, the only pope of this name, and, accord- 
ing to a tradition, the son of a physician, became bish- 
op of Rome in 310, after the death of Marcellus. The 
time of his pontificate is variously stated at from four 
months to six years. No events of importance are re- 
corded of his pontificate. According to an epitaph 
published by Baronius (but which Baronins himself 
refers, not to the pope, but to some priest of the same 
name), the lapsi (q. v.) in Rome demanded immediate 
absolution, which Eusebius refused. Tumult arose, 
in consequence of which Eusebius was exiled by the 
usurper Maxentius to Sicily. He is commemorated 
as a saint on the 26th of September. Several decrees 
circulating under his name, as w'ell as three letters to 
the bishops of Gaul, to the Egyptians, and to the bish- 
ops of Tuscia and Campania, are spurious.— Herzog, 
ReaUEncyklopadic , iv, 246; Acta Sand, ad 26 Septhr . ; 
Pagi, Breviarnm pontijic. Roman, (i, p. 65) ; Bower, 
Hist . of the Popes; Ersch u. Gruber, A llgem. Encyklop. 
(sect, i, vol. xl, p. 445). 


EUSEBIUS 


35G 


EUSEBIUS 


Eusebius of Alexandria. I. Tn the Eastern 
churches, :i number of homilies, ascribed to one Euse- 
bius of Alexandria, enjoyed a great reputation, espe- 
cially during the Oth and 7th centuries. They are ei- 
ther dramatic representations of the chief events in the 
life of Christ, or discussions of moral and practical ques- 
tions. Their author is variously designated as monk, 
bishop, archbishop, or papa ; most frequently bishop 
or archbishop of Alexandria. An ancient biography, 
published by cardinal Alai ( Spicihg . Horn, ix, p. 303), 
represents him as a sainted monk living near Alexan- 
dria, and endowed with the faculty of working mira- 
cles, who became successor of Cyril in the see of Alex- 
dria, transferred Ids episcopal functions, after seven 
years (another reading says twenty years), to a noble 
Alexandrine named Alexander, and died in the retire- 
ment of a monastery. That this account is false we 
know from the list of bishops of Alexandria, which no- 
where leaves room for a bishop Eusebius. According 
to Thilo ( Ueber die Schriften des Eusebius von A lexan- 
drien wul des Eusebius von Emesa , Halle, 1832), the au- 
thor was cither one of the four monks known in the 
Origcnistie controversies under the name of the four 
‘■tall brothers,” and distinguished among the monks 
of the Nitrian desert for piety and theological learning, 
or a presbyter at the court of Justinian I, who, honor- 
ed with the title Papa, took an active part in the dog- 
matic controversies of the Gth century. Semisch (in 
Herzog’s Real-Encyklop. s. v.) thinks that neither of 
these two men lias all the qualifications which one 
would expect from the author of the Homilies. The 
only thing certain, in his opinion, is that the homilies 
were compiled in the 5th or Gth century. The number 
of homilies that are at present known is twentj r -one. 
Some of them were published at Paris, 1575, and Ant- 
werp, 1G02. Augusti (Euseb. Ernes, qiue supersunt opus- 
cidu , Elberfeld, 1820) wrongly attributed three of the 
homilies (of the dramatic class) to Eusebius of Emesa. 
Thilo, in the work already mentioned, combated the 
views of Augusti, and in an appendix published a re- 
vised text of four of the homilies, to which, in 1834, he 
added an edition of a new homily on astrology. 11 is 
views were confirmed by cardinal Alai ( Spicil . Roman. 
ix), who, from a Vatican manuscript, published a num- 
ber of homilies for the first time. A homily on alms, 
which has never been printed, is to be found in the 
Vienna Imperial Library. — Ilerzog, Rcal-Eneyklop. iv, 
22G; Fabricins, Bibl. Grcec. (ed. Ilarles), vii, 409. (A. 
J. S.) 

II. Eusebius, bishop of Laodicea, being a native of 
Alexandria, is sometimes called Eusebius of Alexan- 
dria. 

Eusebius, with the surname Biiuxo, after 1047 
bishop of Angers. Little is known of his early life. 
Soon after becoming bishop he was suspended with a 
number of other bishops, being suspected, it is thought, 
of simony. Hut he seems to have fully justified him- 
self, for in 1049 he was present at the reformatory [ 
council of Pheims, and was chosen a member of the ' 
committee to welcome pope Leo IX in the name of the 
council. In a letter written from Pome (1049), he 
complained of the measures taken by the pope against 
Berengar, who, in his opinion, was free from any her- 
esy. Berengar himself counted Eusebius among his I 
patrons, and it was the advice of Eusebius which in- ( 
duced him to take, at, the Synod of Tours in 1054, the 
oath which the synod demanded from him. One of 
the foremost opponents of Berengar, bishop Theotwiu 
of Liege, calls Eusebius one of the chief renewers of 
the heresy which finds in the Lord’s Supper nothing 
but a shadow and an image of the body of Christ. Hut 
when count Geoffroi of Anjou, the powerful protector 
of the French heretics, died (10GO), the courage of Eu- 
sebius was at an end. At the Episcopal Convention 
of Augers in 30G2 he showed an inclination to accept 
the doctrine of the Church, though lie still made a 
profession of personal friendship for Berengar. The 1 


same indecision shows itself in the celebrated letter, 
written between 10G3 and 10G6, in which Eusebius de- 
clines to act as arbiter at a theological disputation 
which Berengar desired to hold with the priest Gaw 
frid Martini, and defines his dogmatical position. The 
letter (which is regarded by Lessing as the ablest the- 
ological essay of the 11th century) deprecates new 
dogmatic explanations concerning the Eucharist, and 
declares that we ought not to appeal to the fathers, but 
to adhere to Scripture, and abide by the simple words 
that the bread and wine are the true body and blood 
of Christ as a duty of pious faith. The letter may be 
found in Menard us (.1 ugustini e. Juliani operis imper- 
fecti l. 2 priures), with arbitrary alterations in De Love 
(I77«, hares, et poenit. Berengar.'), and Boulay (Hist. 
Univers. Paris). Two other letters of Eusebius are 
given by Sudendorf (Bereng. Turon. 1850). Eusebius 
died at Angers Aug. 27, 1081. — Herzog, Real-Encykl. 
iv, 228; Lessing, 1 Verke (edit. Laclimann), vol. viii ; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Bing. Giner. xvi, 778 ; Neandcr, Church 
History (Torrev), iii, 57G ; Neandcr, Hist, of Liogmas 
(Hyland), ii, 4G2. (A. J. S.) 

Eusebius of C.esarea, the “father of Church his- 
tory,” was born about 270. The place of his birth is 
not certainly known, but it is supposed to have been 
Caesarea in Palestine. Coming to Antioch towards 
the end of the 3d century, he there studied the Scrip- 
tures under Dorotheus (Eusebius, 77. E. vii, 32). On 
his return to Caesarea he was ordained by Agapius, 
then bishop of that place. Here he became intimate 
with Pamphilus, a learned presbyter, who was head 
of a divinity school at Caesarea, and w ho had gathered 
many books illustrative of Scripture and theology, es- 
pecially the writings of Origen. This friendship was 
lifelong, and from it Eusebius took the name Eixjtfiiog 
(b (pi\oc) too Uag<pi\ov, Eusebius Pamphili. It was 
probably under Pamphilus that Eusebius imbibed his 
fondness for the writings of Origen. During the per- 
secution bv Dioclesian, Pamphilus was imprisoned, and 
finally died a martyr (A. D. 809). Eusebius taught in 
the school of Pamphilus for years, but during the per- 
secution he went to Tyre and to Egypt, where he him- 
self was imprisoned as a confessor, and where he wit- 
nessed the sufferings of the faithful described in his 
Church History (bk. viii, c. 7, 9). Epiphanius (/her. 
lx viii, 7) tells ns that Eusebius was charged at the 
Synod of Tyre (A.D. 335, where lie sided against Ath- 
anasius), by Potamon, bishop of llcraelea, with hav- 
ing shown cowardice during the persecution in Egypt, 
and even with having offered incense to idols. But 
the charge doubtless arose from party feeling, as it is 
not likely that he could, with such a. character, have 
been made bishop in that age. In 313 or 315 he was 
chosen bishop of Caesarea, which sec he administered 
with eminent success for twenty-five years. 

The part taken by Eusebius in the Arian eontro- 
vers}- has been the subject of much dispute. When 
Arius was deposed by Alexander, lie enlisted numer- 
ous bishops in his behalf, especially Eusebius of Nieo- 
media, namesake and friend of Eusebius of Casarca ; 
and the latter wrote to Alexander, bishop of Alexan- 
dria (two letters, of which fragments are extant), aim- 
ing, not to settle the doctrinal dispute, but rather to 
show that the views of Arius were misrepresented, lie 
sought to reconcile the contending parties, and this 
conciliatory, if not compromising temper, characterized 
Eusebius through life. See Arius; Atiiaxasius. The 
part taken l»y Eusebius in the Council of Nicaa (Nice, 
A.D. 325) is described by Valesins (Introd. to his edit, 
of Eusebius) as follows: “In this greatest and most 
celebrated council, Eusebius was far from an unimpor- 
tant person ; for he both had the first seat on the right 
hand, and in the name of the whole synod addressed 
the emperor Constantine, who sat on a golden chair, 
between the two rows of the opposite parties. This is 
affirmed by Eusebius himself (Life of Constantine), and 
by Sozotnen (Ecclcs. Hist.). Afterwards, w hen there 


EUSEBIUS 


357 


EUSEBIUS 


was a considerable contest amongst the bishops rela- 
tive to a creed or form of faith, Eusebius proposed a 
formula at once simple and orthodox, which received 
the general commendation both of the bishops and of 
the emperor himself. Something, notwithstanding, 
seeming to be wanting in the creed, to confute the im- 
piety of the new opinion, the fathers of the Nicene 
Council determined that these words, ‘Very God of 
VERY God ; BEGOTTEN, NOT MADE ; BEING OF ONE 
substance with THE Father,’ should be added. 
They also annexed anathemas against those who 
should assert that the Son of God was made of things 
not existing, and that there was a time when he was 
not. At first, indeed, Eusebius refused to admit the 
term bpoovoiog, but when the import of that word was 
explained to him by the other bishops he consented, 
and, as he himself relates in his letter to his diocese at 
Cajsarea, subscribed to tbe creed (Socrates, II. E. i, 8). 
Some affirm that it was the necessity of circumstances, 
or the fear of the emperor, and not the conviction of his 
own mind, that induced Eusebius to subscribe to the 
Nicene Council. Of some present at the synod this 
might be believed, but we cannot think it of Eusebius, 
bishop of Cajsarea. After the Nicene Council, too, Eu- 
sebius always condemned those who asserted that the 
Son of God was made of things not existing. Atha- 
nasins likewise affirms the same concerning him, and, 
though he frequently mentions that Eusebius sub- 
scribed to the Nicene Council, nowhere intimates that 
he did it insincerely. Had Eusebius subscribed to that 
council, not according to his own mind, but fraudulent- 
ly and in pretence, why did he afterwards send the let- 
ter we have mentioned to his diocese at Cajsarea, and 
therein ingenuously profess that he had embraced the 
faith which had been published in the Nicene Coun- 
cil ?” (For details, see Socrates, Hist. Eccl. i, 8, 9.) 

After the deposition of Eustathius (q. v.), A.D. 331, 
the see of Antioch was offered to Eusebins, but he de- 
clined the honor, probably in fear of tumult, and even 
bloodshed, from the excited state of the popular mind 
in Antioch. The conduct of Eusebius in this case 
greatly gratified the emperor Constantine, who wrote 
him a letter praising his prudence, and saying that he 
was worthy of being bishop, “not of the city merely, 
but of almost the whole world” (Socrates, II. E. i, 24). 
In the later course of the Arian dispute, Eusebius, 
though theoretically orthodox, substantially acted with 
the Arians to a great extent. Even in his Church 
History lie avoids even mentioning the controversy, 
ending his book with A.D. 324. He presided at the 
Council of Tyre, A.D. 335 (Epiphanius, Hcer. lxviii, 7), 
summoned for the trial of Athanasius, and joined in 
the condemnation of that great man (see art. Atha- 
nasius, vol. i, p. 505). The prelates assembled at Je- 
rusalem, and deputed Eusebius to the emperor Con- 
stantine, to obtain his approval of their decision, and 
he seems to have used his influence with the emperor 
to secure both the recall of Arius and the exile of Ath- 
anasius. 

In his last years Eusebius lived in close intimacy 
with the emperor Constantine, who cherished the 
warmest esteem and affection for him. In A.D. 336 
Eusebius wrote his Panegyric on Constantine. The em- 
peror had assigned him the task of superintending the 
transcription of fifty copies of the Scriptures on parch- 
ment, for the use of the churches of Constantinople. 
This was the last literary labor in which he was en- 
gaged ( Vita Constant, iv, 35) before his death, which 
took place A.D. 340. 

From the general tenor of his life as sketched 
above, it is not to be wondered that Eusebius has been 
charged with a leaning towards Arianism. “ So 
thought, among the ancients, Hilary, Jerome (who oth- 
erwise speaks favorably of Eusebius), Theodoret, and 
the second Council of Nicaja (A.D. 787), which unjust- 
ly condemned him, even express!}', as an Arian her- 
etic; and so have thought, among moderns, Baroni- 


us, Petavius, Clericus, Tillemont, Gieseler; while the 
Church historian Socrates, the Roman bishops Gela- 
sius and Pelagius U,Valesius, G. Bull, Cave (who en- 
ters into a full vindication, vol. i, p. Ill), and Samuel 
Lee (and most Anglicans), have defended the ortho- 
doxy of Eusebius, or at least mention him with very 
high respect. The Gallican Church has even placed 
him in the catalogue of saints. Athanasius never ex- 
pressly charges him with apostasy from the Nicene 
faith to Arianism, or to semi-Ariauism, but frequently 
says that before 325 he held with Arius, and changed 
his opinion at Nicrea. This is the view of Mohlcr 
also ( Athanasius d. Crosse , p. 333 sq.), whom Dorner 
(C histology, i, 792) inaccurately reckons among the op- 
ponents of the orthodoxy of Eusebius. The testimo- 
nies of the ancients for and against Eusebius are col- 
lected in Migne’s edition of his works, tom. i, p. 68-98. 
Among recent writers, Dr. Samuel Lee has most fully 
investigated the orthodoxy of Eusebius in the prelim- 
inary dissertation to his translation of the Theophania 
from the Syriac, p. xxiv-xeix. He arrives at the 
conclusion (p. xcviii) ‘that Eusebius was no Arian, 
and that the same reasoning must prove that he was 
no semi-Arian ; that he did in no degree partake of 
the error of Origen, ascribed to him so positively and 
so groundlessly by Photius.’ But this is merely a 
negative result.” — Schaff, Hist, of the Christian Church , 
ii, 874. Compare also Dupin, Aut. Eccl. (Paris, 1683), 
ii, 1-15. 

It is in the field of Church history that the merits 
and services of Eusebius stand pre-eminent among 
early writers. He had large acquaintance with both 
Christian and pagan learning, and used it, if not with 
critical or philosophical skill, yet with patient industry 
and with literary integrity. He was the first to col- 
lect the scattered annals of the first tliree centuries of 
the Church in his Ecclesiastical History , the most im- 
portant of all his writings, which traces the history of 
Christianity from the advent of the Messiah to the de- 
feat of Licinius, A.D. 324. In this work he rejects, 
with greater care than is usually attributed to him, the 
doubtful facts and the fabulous narratives. And this is 
not his only merit. A living sympathy with the for- 
tunes of Christianity, and earnest admiration for the 
heroism of its martyrs and confessors, inspires him 
throughout. “Others,” he says in the beginning of 
the fifth book, “that compose historical narratives, 
would record nothing but victories in battle, the tro- 
phies of enemies, the warlike achievements of gener- 
als, the bravery of soldiers, sullied with blood and in- 
numerable murders, for the sake of children, and coun- 
try, and property. But our narrative embraces that 
conversation and conduct which is acceptable to God 
— the wars and conflicts of a most pacific character, 
whose ultimate tendency is to establish the peace of 
the soul.” In Dr. Schaff’ s opinion ( Ch . Hist, iii, 877), 
the Church History of Eusebius “gives a colorless, de- 
fective, incoherent, fragmentary, yet interesting pic- 
ture of the heroic youth of the Church, and owes its 
incalculable value not to the historic art of the author, 
but almost entirely to his copious and mostly literal 
extracts from foreign, and, in some cases, now extinct 
sources.” 

In the 8th book of the Ecclesiastical nistory (c. ii) 
Eusebius states that it is no part of his plan to relate all 
the wickedness and dissensions of the Christians before 
the persecution, or to name those who were untrue to 
the faith ; adding, “we shall only, upon the whole, in- 
troduce those events into our history that may be prof- 
itable first to iis of the present day, and hereafter to pos- 
terity.” In the Martyr. Palcstin . (ch. xii) he states as 
a historical principle that the “events most suitable to 
be recorded in a history of the martyrs are those which 
redound to their honor.” Gibbon ( Decline and Fall, 
ch. xvi) remarks that “ such an acknowledgment will 
naturally excite a suspicion that a writer who has so 
openly violated one of the fundamental laws of his- 


EUSEBIUS 


358 


EUSEBIUS 


torv has not paid a very strict regard to the observ- 
ance of the other.” Certainly it was an error of judg- 
ment in Eusebius to hold hack anything in his ac- 
counts. The Scripture might have taught him better ; 
it docs not omit the faults of patriarchs or saints. If 
nothing, moreover, is to he told of martyrs hut “ivhat 
redounds to their honor,” one's admiration of these 
honorable facts must he lessened by the fear that what 
is kept back might counterbalance what is told. The 
principle of Eusebius is here historically had. But 
Gibbon attacks Eusebius still more strongly in his 
Vindication of Chapters xv and xvi of his history. 
Eusebius gives as the title of eh. xxxi, bk. xii, of the 
Fra par at. Evang., the question “How far it may be 
lawful to use falsehood as a medicine for the benefit 
of those who need such a procedure?” lie begins the 
chapter with a citation from Plato ( De Lcgibus , ii), as 
follows: “A legislator of any value, even if the fact 
were not such as our discourse has just established it, 
if in any case he might make hold to deceive young 
persons for their advantage ; could he possibly incul- 
cate any falsehood more profitable than this, or more 
potent to lead all without force or compulsion to the 
practice of all justice ? ‘ Truth, my friend, is honora- 

ble and permanent ; but not, it would seem, very easy 
of persuasion.’ To this passage of Plato, Eusebius 
adds: “You may find a thousand such instances in 
the Scriptures, where God is described as jealous, or 
sleeping, or angry, or liable to other human affections, 
so expressed for the advantage of those who require such 
a method (tw oxptXt'iq row ceoyiviov rod roiovrou Tpo- 
Troi').’” This is all that is said on the subject, and it 
may be interpreted to mean nothing more than that 
one’s statements must be adapted to the understanding 
of his hearers or readers. Put the use of the word 
“falsehood” in the heading of the chapter shows that, 
in the mind of Eusebius, either there was no just ap- 
preciation of the difference between “falsehood” and 
“accommodation,” or else that his moral sense as to 
veracity had been vitiated by the ecclesiastical casu- 
istry which even in his time had begun to show itself. 
It is easily to be seen, however, that Gibbon really 
misleads his readers by his statement of the case : “In 
this chapter,” says he, “ Eusebius alleges a passage of 
Plato which approves the occasional practice of pious 
and salutary frauds; nor is he ashamed to justify the 
sentiments of the Athenian philosopher by the exam- 
ple of the sacred writers of the Old Testament.” This 
is not warranted by the passage, which is fully cited 
above. We adopt, nevertheless, the remark of Wad- 
dington ( History of the Church, ch. vi, ad fin.): “It 
was disgraceful to the less enlightened fathers of’ the 
second and third centuries that, even in the midst of 
trial and tribulation, they borrowed a momentary suc- 
cor from the profession of falsehood ; hut the same ex- 
pedient was still more shameful to Eusebius, who 
flouriidted during the prosperity of the Church, whose 
age and more extensive learning left him no excuse 
in ignorance or inexperience, and whose great name 
and unquestionable piety gave sanction and authority 
to all his opinions. There can he no doubt, then, that 
the publication of that detestable principle in any one 
of his writings, however modified and limited by his 
explanation, must to a certain extent disturb our con- 
fidence in the rest ; the mind which does not profess 
to he constantly guided by truth possesses no claim to 
our implicit submission. Nevertheless, the works of 
Eusebius must at last be judged by the character which 
severally pervades them, not by any single principle 
which the author has once only laid down, to which he 
has not intended (as it would seem) to give general 
application, and which he has manifestly proposed 
rather as a philosophical speculation than as a rule for 
his own composition. At least we feel convinced that 
whoever shall calmly peruse his Ecclesiastical History 
will not discover in it any deliberate intention to de- 
ceive ; in the relation of miraculous stories he is more 


sparing than most of the Church historians who suc- 
ceeded him, and seemingly even than those whom he 
has copied ; and, upon the whole, we shall not do him 
more than justice if we consider him as an avowed 
but honest advocate , many of whose statements must 
be examined with suspicion, while the greater part 
bear direct and incontestable marks of truth.” 

Of his Chronicon it has also been justly asserted, 
“ that for centuries it was the source of all syn- 
chronistical knowledge of history in the Greek, Lat- 
in, Oriental, and Christian world, everywhere trans- 
lated, continued, excerpted, and made the basis of the 
different works on this subject.” His panegyrical 
writings on Constantine, however, afford, with much 
that is commendable and historically useful, abundant 
proofs of the weakness of his moral fibre, and of his 
sycophancy in dealing with the emperor. Hut it is to 
his credit that he never used his influence at court for 
merely personal ends. When Constantine on one oc- 
casion at Cajsarea asked Eusebius to demand a favor 
for his Church, he declared “ his Church was not in 
need of any favors. The only boon he asked was per- 
mission to use the public archives to enable him to 
write a history of the martyrs, which favor was readily 
granted him” (Jerome, Ep. ad Chromatium et Ihliodo - 
rum; comp. Hefele in the Freib. Kirchen-Lex. vi, 135 
et sq.). Less important than the historical works of 
Eusebius, but nevertheless very meritorious, are his 
Apologetical writings, the most extensive in ancient 
apologetics. His notices of the oldest mythologies in 
the Prceparatio Evangtlica are a valuable storehouse 
for theologians and philologists. In the field of doc - 
trinal theology ( contra Marcellum ) the writings of Eu- 
sebius appear to less advantage than in any other. 
They touch upon the great question of his time, the 
Person of Christ. In these writings, as in his practi- 
cal life, he appears to waver between orthodoxy and 
snbordinationism. 

The writings of Eusebius are here classified as A. 
Historical ; B. Apologetic ; C. Dogmatic ; D. Exeget- 
ical. 

A. Historical. — 1. The lorooia tKK\t)<na(TTVo) y Eccle- 
siastical History , in ten books, beginning with the incar- 
nation of Christ, relates the history of the Church, in- 
cluding accounts of writers, martyrs, persecutions, 
etc., up to A.C. 324. It was probably composed be- 
fore the Nicene Council (325), as, near its close, Cris- 
pus, the eldest son of Constantine, is very favorably 
mentioned, which could hardly have happened after 
the execution of Crispus (325). The best editions of 
the History, with the Greek text, are Yalesius, with 
life of Eusebius prefixed (Par. 1059-1 G73, 3 vols. fol., 
often reprinted); Beading’s edition of Yalesius’s Eu- 
sebius (Gr. and Eat.), with the fragments of Theodo- 
re t, Evagrius, and Philostorgius (Camb. 1720 and 1746, 
3 vols. fob); Zimmermann, Hist. Eccles. (Francfort, 
1822, Gr. and Lat., 2 vols. 8vo) ; Heinichen, Ilist. Ec - 
clcs ., Beading’s edition of Valesius, with Stroth’s notes, 
and additional notes and indices hj’- the editor (Leips. 
1827-8, 3 vols. 8vo ; also see below); Burton, Hist. 
Eccles. (Gr.) (Oxou, 1838, 1845, 1850, 8vo), also An- 
noiationcs Variorum, 2 vols. Svo (Oxon, 1842, 2 vols. 
8vo) ; cheap edition by Schwegler (Tubing. 1852, 8vo) ; 
Laemmer, Ilist. Eccles., cum tabulis specimina cod. vii 
eont. (Schatfhausen, 1862, large Svo, pp. 836, with ta- 
bles in fob). 

English Translations. — Hanmcr, Ch. History of Euse- 
bius , Socrates , and Evagrius, with the Life mid Pane- 
gyric of Constantine (Cambridge, 1577, and often, fob); 
the same, with Salton stall’s translation of The Life of 
Constantine. (1650, fob; 1663, fob); "Wells (based on 
the preceding, 1709, fob); Parker’s abridged (Lond. 
1729, 4 to) ; best translation, Cruse’s (with Boyle’s 
Council of jYtce, Philadelphia, 1846; 10th ed. N. Y. 
1856, Svo; also in Bohn’s Ecclesiastical Library, Lond. 
12mo ; and in Bagster’s Greek Eccl. Histonajis, Lond. 
i 1843, Svo). 


EU&EBIUS 359 EUSEBIUS 


German Translations,— lie dion (Strasb. 1545, fol.) ; 
Stroth (Quedlinburg, 1777, 3 vols. 8vo) ; Closs (in two 
editions, one for Romanists, the other for Protestants, 
Stuttgart, 1839, 8vo). French translation l>} r Cousin 
(Paris, 1075, and often). On the Moscow MS. of the 
Feel. Hist., sec Zeits. Ilist. Thcol. 1861, p. 311, and The- 
olog. Stud. u. Krit. 1858, heft iii. 

2. The xpovticibv icavovtov TravTobam) iaropia, gen- 
erally called Chronicon , libb. ii, is an abridgment of 
the history of the world from its creation up to A.D. 
325, with chronological tables, in which the chrouog- 
raphy of Julius Africanns is largely made use of. For 
the arbitrary changes made b}' Eusebius in the text 
of Africanns, see Brunet dc Presle, Dynasties Egyp- 
tiennes (Paris, 1850, 8vo). Of this chronicle there re- 
main fragments in Greek and two translations : one in 
Latin by Jerome, and one in Armenian. The latter 
was lirst edited by Zohrab (Milan, 1818), Latin, by A. 
Mai; better ed.byAucher (Lat. version from the Ar- 
menian, with the Greek fragments, Venct. 1818, 4to ; 
reprinted in Migne, Patrol. Graic. tom. xix); new edi- 
tion by Schone (the Armenian translated by Peter- 
mann and Rodiger, Berlin, 18GC). 

3. The Life of Constantine , tic; tov ftiov Kiovaravri- 
vqv rov (3uiti\hoq Xoy ol iv ; de vita Constantin! , lib. 
iv; generally printed with the Ecclesiastical Ilist. (see 
above) ; also separately, ed. by Heinichen, with Read- 
ing’s and Stroth ’s notes, etc. (Leipsic, 1829, 8vo); En- 
glish translation in Bohn’s Eccles. Library) (London, 
12mo). 

4. Panegyric on Constantine , tig Kiovaravrl vov rpta- 
Koi’Tct trrjptKog, an oration in praise of Constantine on 
the thirtieth anniversary of his accession ; generally 
printed with the Church History ; also in Heinichen’s 
Life of Constantine (see above, 3). 

5. Xvyypappa 7rtpi ribv /car’ avrbv papTvpiadv- 
Tto/f, de martyr Urns Palestine ; really, de martyr ihus suis 
temporis; containing reports of numerous martyrs of 
the Diocletian persecution (A.D. 303-310), printed as 
an appendix to the eighth book of the Eccles. History ; 
specially interesting is Cureton’s History of the Mar- 
tyrs of Palestine, by Eusebius, discovered in a very an- 
cient Syrian MS., and iransl. into English (Lond. 1860, 
8vo); given also in Migne, Patrol. Cnee. tom. xx. 

6. The A eta St. Pamphili et sociorum (on the Mar- 
tyrdom of his teacher Pamphilus) is only a fragment 
of a work on the life of Pamphilus, in three books, 
which seems to have been lost. 

B. Apologetic. — 1. The Preparation of the Gospel 
History, TrooirapaoKtin) evayytXiK if, preeparatio evan- 
gelica, in fifteen books, in the first six books Euse- 
bius vindicates Christianit} r by extracts from Grecian 
and Roman writers, and by criticisms on them and 
on the Phoenician and Egyptian mythologies and wor- 
ship. In books 7-15 he treats of Judaism, its relig- 
ion, history, and institutions, showing its superiority 
to heathenism. The work pictures the condition of 
the world previous to the advent of Christ. Ed. by 
Rob. Stephens (Gr. 1544), and with Latin version by 
Yiger (Paris, 1628, Cologne, 1688); ed. by Heinichen 
(Lips. 1842-3, 2 vols. 8vo); ed. by Gaisford (Oxf. 1843, 4 
vols. 8vo); also in Migne, Patrol. Gnec. t. xxi. Cum- 
berland translated Saneboniathon’s Phoenician History 
from bk. i of the Prcep. Prang, (Lond. 1720, 8vo). 

2. The Evangelical Demonstration , uirbotihg tvay- 
yeXuct), (lnnonst ratio evangelica , in twenty books, of 
which only ten remain. Eusebius wrote in order to 
prove that the Christian religion is demonstrably true, 
from its internal character, and from the fulfilment of 
the Jewish prophecies. Ho points out the true rela- 
tions between Judaism and Christianity, and the pro- 
visional character of the latter; and in books 3-10 lie 
comments on the Messianic prophecies. This work is 
intended to be the complement of the Prtrpnr. Evany. 
(see above). Translated into Latin by Donatus of 
Verona, and published either at Rome or Ycnice in 
1498, and at Cologne in 1542. The Greek text appear- 


ed, with that of the Preeparatio, at Paris in the editions 
both of Robt. Stephens and Yiger (sec above, 1) ; also 
separately by Stephens (Paris, 1545, fol.), edited by 
Gaisford (Gr. and Latin, Oxford, 1852, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
abridged German version in Rossler, Bibl.der Kirchcn- 
vater (1778, 8vo), v, 203 sq. 

3. Of a similar character are (a) the hXoyai 7 rpo- 
(pijriicai, Eclogce Prophetical, of which four books only 
are preserved. They give mostly allegorical inter- 
pretations of Old-Test. Messianic passages (edited by 
Gaisford, Oxon. 1842, 8vo; also in Migne, Patrologia 
Graic.'). (6) The five books of The Theophany , Stofatveia, 
preserved in a Syriac translation, long lost, but dis- 
covered by Tattam in 1839 in a Nitrian monastery, 
and published under the title Eusebius on the Theopha- 
nia , or divine Manifestation of our Lord and Saviour- 
Jesus Christ, translated from an ancient Syriac Version 
of the Greek Original now lost , with Notes, and a Vindi- 
cation of the Orthodoxy and prophetical Views of the Au- 
thor, by Prof. S. Lee (Camb. 1843, 8vo). Dr. Lee as- 
signs the IMS. (now in the British Museum) to the 
year A.D. 411. The Greek fragments, with Lat. ver- 
sion, compared also with Lee’s edition, are given in 
Migne, Patrol. Graze, xxiv, 607 sq. See a full treat- 
ment of this subject in Ceillicr, Aut. Sacr. (Par. 1865, 
8vo), p. 258 sq. 

4. The small work, Against nierocles , 7 rpug rd in ro 
duXoorpdrou tig AttoXXioviov rov T tut via Cut r/)v Tf- 
potzXu TrapaX/ffyStiaav avrov re Kui Xpiarou avy/ept- 
aiv, generally cited Adversus Ilieroclem , shows very 
ablv that the magician and philosopher Apollonius of 
Tvana cannot bear comparison with Christ. It is to 
be found in Morell’s Philostratus (Gr. and Lat., Paris, 
1608) ; edited, with new transl. and notes, by Olearius 
(Leips. 1709); and, with the libri contra Marcellum, ed. 
by Gaisford (Oxon, 1852, 8vo) ; also in Migne, Patrol. 
Graic. xxii, 795 sq. 

C. Dogmatical and Polemical. — 1. Two books, /card 
M ap/ceXXov, contra Marcellum, written by desire of 
the Council of Constantinople (held A.D. 336) to vin- 
dicate the condemnation of Marcellus for Sabellianism 
by that council (see Ilcfcle, Conciliengeschichte, vol. i, 
§ 51). It is given in Yiger’s ed. of the Prcep. Evany. 
(1628 and 1688); also in Gaisford’s edition ofth 0 Liber 
cont. Ilieroclem (Oxon, 1852, 8vo) ; and in Migne, Pa- 
trol. Grac. xxiv, 707. 

2. The three books, Of the Ecclesiastical Theology, 
mp\ rye f kkX pmaariK/j g SrtoXoyiag, De ecclesiastica 
theologia, are likewise intended against Marcellus, as 
3’coXoyitt here means sermo de Filio Dei ejusque natura 
divina, with a biblico-dogniatical proof of the hvpo- 
statical existence of the Son. It is given (Greek and 
Latin) by Rettberg (Gottingen, 1794) ; in Cont. Iliero- 
clem , cd.by Gaisford (Oxon, 1852, 8vo); and in Migne, 
Patrol. Graic. xxiv, 826 sq. 

3. The short treatise, 7 repi rrjg rov 7 rncrya ioprijg, 
De solemnitate paschali, treats of the typical character 
of the Jewish Passover, and of its consummation in 
the new covenant. It is in Migne, Patrologia Grcec. 
xxiv, G94 sq. 

4. Fourteen smaller treatises, among which the most 
important are, De fide adv. SabelUim , De resurrectione, 
De incorporali anima ; quod Deus Pater incorporalis 
sit , which remain only in Latin, and are all contained 
in Migne, Patrologia Grtcca, tom. xxiv. 

D. Exegetical. — These are partly introductory, part- 
ly commentaries, written upon the allegorical method 
of Origen, and without any knowledge of Hebrew. 
(1) The Onomasticon , or 7 repi rwv to7tucu>v bvopdrwv 
iv ry Btia yna<py, De locis Ilebraicis , a topographical 
and alphabetical index of the names of places occur- 
ring in the Bible. It was translated into Latin by 
Jerome, and edited in Greek by Bonfrerius (Paris, 1631 
and 1G59, fol.); Gr. and Lat. in Ilieron. Opera, t. ii 
(Paris, 1699); by Clericus (Amst. 1707, fol.) ; by Lar- 
sow and Parthey (Berlin, 1862, 8vo). 

2. Evangelici canoncs , a kind of Gospel harmony, to 


EUSEBIUS 


360 


EUSEBIUS 


be found in the editions of the N. T. by Erasmus, Ste- 
phens, and Mill; also in Migne, Patrolog. Grcec. xxii, 
1273 sq. 

3. YiijTi'jfiara icai Xvaetg, Qucestiones evmigelicee, in 
three books, containing solutions of seeming contra- 
dictions of the evangelists ; edited by Mai in his Coll. 
Script. Vet. (1825, 4to), i, 101 sq. 

•1. Commentaries on the Psalms and On Isaiah , which 
are preserved to a great extent, and given in Migne, 
ratrol. Gneca , tom. xxiv and xxv. Of his commen- 
tary on Solomon's Song, Proverbs , Daniel, and Luke , 
only fragments are left us, which are given in Migne, 
Patrol. Grcec. tom. xxiv, who prints also Mai’s newly- 
discovered fragments from his Nov. Pair. Bibliotheca, 
vol. iv. 

There is no absolutely complete edition of the works 
of Eusebius. The* nearest to such are Eusebii Pam- 
phili Opera Omnia, Lat. (Basil. 1542, 4 vols. fol. ; 1559, 
2 vols. fol. ; Faris, 1581, fol.) ; most complete of all 
(following A r alesius, Montfaueon, Mai, and Gaisford), 
Migne, Patrol. Grcec. vols. xix -xxiv. A new edition 
of the Scripta Jlistorica , by Ileinichen, was begun in 
1837 (vol. i, Svo, the Hist. Eccles .); and of the Ojwra 
Omnia by Dindorf (Leipsic, 1865-67, vols. i iii, Svo). 

See Cave, Hist. Lit. i, 111 ; Dupin, Auteurs Bccl. ii, 
1-15; Fabricius, Bibl. Gneca , ed. ITarles, vii, 335 sq. ; 
Oiulin, Script. Eccles. i, 312 sq. ; Lardner, J Floras, iv 
69 sq. ; Hoffmann, Bibliog. Lexikon, i, 98 sq. ; Ceillier, 
Auteurs Sacres (Paris, 1865), iii, 168 sq. ; Neander, Ch. 
History, Torrey’s transl., ii, 367, 383; Jortin, Remarks 
on Eccles. Hist. (London, 1767), ii, 252; AVaddington, 
Church History (in 1 vol.), ch. vi ; Schaff, History of 
the Christian Church, vol. iii, § 161 ; Alzog, Patrologie, 
§ 44; Lardner, Works, iv, 69; Ilefele, Conciliengesch. 
i, 233 et al. ; Dowling, On the Study of Eccles. Hist. p. 
13 sq. ; Ivestner, De Fiele Eusebii (Gottingen, 1817); 
Baur, Comp. Euscb. cum Herodoto (Tubing. 1834, 12mo); 
Hiinnell, De Eusebio II dig. Christ. Defensore (Getting. 
1843); Lamson, Church of the First Three Centuries , 
233 sq. ; Dorner, Person of Christ (Edinb. transl.), div. 
i, vol. ii, 218 sq. ; AVaterland, Works, ii, 475 sq. 

Eusebius of Dobyl*eum, born at the end of the 
fifth century, began his public life as a lawyer, and 
obtained the place of imperial commissioner ( agens in 
rebus'). Evagrius (Hist. Eccles. i, 9) says of him that, 
“while still practising as a rhetorician, lie was the first 
to expose the blasphemy of Nestorius.” It seems to 
have been he who interrupted Nestorius in a sermon 
about A. D. 430 (when he denied to Alary the title 0t- 
or<k*oc), bv crying aloud “ No; the eternal Logos him- 
self subjected himself to a second birth.” This, at 
least, is the conclusion of Neander (Church History, 
Torrey’s transl., ii, 504). lie also thinks it probable 
that Eusebius was the author of the formal complaint 
publicly posted against Nestorius in the church of 
Constantinople, comparing him to Paul of Samosata 
(Neander, l. c.). It is possible that it was as a reward 
for this zeal that he was made bishop. 

At all events, he entered into orders, and became 
bishop of Dorylamm, in Phrygia. In the year 448, at 
the Home Council (ovvodog ivlgpovaa), held at Con- 
stantinople, lie entered complaint against Eutyches 
(whom he had previously warned privately), as hold- 
ing falso and blasphemous doctrines, contrary to the 
fathers, as to the person of Christ (Alansi, Concil. vi, 
495, 650). See Eutyches. At this synod Eutyches 
was condemned, but in the next year, at the Robber- 
Council (see Ephesus, Robber-Council of), Euty- 
clies was restored, and Eusebius condemned and de- 
prived of his see. When he attempted at this council 
to explain the doctrine of two natures in Christ, voices 
exclaimed, “ Burn Eusebius ! As lie has cut Christ 
asunder, so let him be cut asunder.” He fled to Rome. 
The tide was turned by the death of Theodosius, A.D. 
450. Leo the Great, bishop of Rome, prevailed upon 
Marcian, the successor of Theodosius, to eonvene an- 
other general eouneil, which met at Chaleedon A.D. 


451, and Eusebius was restored to his see. A few po- 
lemical writings of Eusebius are still extant, as Con- 
sertatio adversus Nestorium (in the works of Marius 
Alercator, ii, p. 18) : — Libellus adversus Eutycheten (in 
Labbe, vol. iv, p. 151): — Libellus adversus Dioscurum 
(ib. vol. iv, p. 380): — Epistola ad Marcianum impera- 
torem (ib. p. 95). — Neander, Ch. Hist, ii, 505-513 ; Hoe- 
fer, Nouv. Biog. Gener. xvi, 777. 

Eusebius, bishop of Emesa, fourth century. Soc- 
rates (Hist. Eccles. ii, 9) gives the following account of 
him : “ Who this person was, George, bishop of Lao- 
dieea, who was present on this occasion, informs us ; 
for he says, in the book which he has composed on his 
life, that he was descended from a noble family of 
Edessa, in Mesopotamia, and that from a child lie had 
studied the Holy Scriptures ; that he was afterwards 
instructed in Greek literature by a master resident at 
Edessa ; and finally, that the sacred books were ex- 
pounded to him by Patrophilus and Eusebius, the lat- 
ter of whom presided over the church at Caesarea, and 
the former over that at Seythopolis. Having after- 
wards gone to Antioch, about the time that Eustathius 
was deposed on the accusation of Cyrus of Benea for 
holding the tenets of Sabellius, he lived on terms of 
familiar intercourse with Euphronius, that prelate’s 
successor. AYhen, however, a bishopric was offered 
Him, he retired to Alexandria to avoid the intended 
honor, and there devoted himself to the study of phi- 
losophy. On his return to Antioch he formed an in- 
timate acquaintance with Placitus or Flaccillus, the 
successor of Euphronius. At length he was ordained 
I bishop of Alexandria by Eusebius, bishop of Constan- 
j tinople, but did not go thither in consequence of the 
j attachment of the people of that city to Athanasius. 

, He was therefore sent to Emesa, where the inhabitants 
excited a sedition on account of his appointment, for 
they reproached him with the study and practice of 
judicial astrology; whereupon he fled to Laodicea 
and abode with George, who has given so many his- 
torical details of him. George, having taken him to 
Antioch, procured his being again brought back to 
Emesa by Flaccillus and Narcissus ; but he was af- 
terwards charged with holding the Sabellian heresy. 
His ordination is elaborately described by the same 
writer, who adds at the close that the emperor (Con- 
stant i us) took him with him in his expedition against 
the barbarians, and that miracles were wrought by his 
hand” (see also Sozomen, Hist. Ecclesiast. iii, 6). Dur- 
ing the latter years of his life he lived at Antioch, de- 
voted to study. He died at Antioch about A.D. 860. 
Among the numerous works of Eusebius, Jerome men- 
tions treatises against the Jews, the Pagans, and Nova- 
tians ; a Commentary, in 10 books, to the Epistle to the 
Galatians, and Homilies on the Gospels. Thcodoret 
mentions works of Eusebius against the Marcionites 
and Manichaeans ; Ebedjesu, Questions on the Ohl Tes- 
tament; and Xenajas (Asseman. Bibl. ii, p. 28) a work 
on faith, and other addresses. Of all these works only 
fragments are extant. Two homilies (against Mar- 
cellas) undoubtedly belonging to him were falsely 
ascribed to Eusebius of Caesarea. Some homilies are 
of a more recent date. See Eusebius of Alexan- 
dria. A biography of Eusebius, by bishop George, of 
Laodicea, is lost. A work on Eusebius and liis writ- 
ings has been written by An gust i (Euseb. Ernes, opus- 
cula qua? super sunt gneca , Elberfeld, 1829) ; and some 
of the statements in this work have been refuted by 
Thilo (Ueber d. Schriften des Euseb. r. A lex. v. des Bu- 
sch. ron Emisa (Halle, 1832). Some of the homilies as- 
cribed to Eusebius of Caesarea are attributed to Euse- 
bius of Emesa. 

Eusebius, a Nitrian monk (beginning of 5th cen- 
tury), one of the u four tall brothers” condemned by 
Tlieophilus, bishop of Alexandria, for defending the 
opinions of Origen. The three others were Dioscurus, 
Ammonius, and Euthymius. They retired first to Je- 


EUSEBIUS 361 EUSEBIUS 


rusalem and Scythopolis, and then to Constantinople, | 
■where Chrysostom received them kindly, but did not 
admit them to communion. They were “pious men, 
though not v holly exempt from a certain fanatical 
ascetic tendency.” — Neander, CL Hist, ii, 091 ; Sozo- 
men, Hist. Eccl . viii, 12, 13 ; Socrates, 1 list. Eccl. vi, 7. 

Eusebius of Laodicea, a native of Alexandria, 
and therefore sometimes called Eusebius of Alexan- 
dria. As deacon in Alexandria, lie accompanied his 
bishop, Dionysius, in the Valerian persecution of Chris- 
tians before the proconsul iEmilianus (257), and by 
nursing the imprisoned Christians and burying the 
martyrs gave a shining testimony of liis undaunted 
faith. When (from 2G0 to 263) a terrible epidemic 
and civil war devastated Alexandria, Eusebius again 
distinguished himself by his zeal in nursing the sick, 
both pagan and Christian, and, in union with his 
friend Anatolius, procured relief to thousands of in- 
habitants who were threatened with starvation. In 
264 he attended, as the representative of bishop Diony- 
sius, whom old age and sickness retained in Alexan- 
dria, the Synod of Antioch, which was to take action 
on the heresy of Paul of Samosata. Subsequently lie 
became bishop of Laodicea in Syria, where he died in 
270. He was succeeded by his friend Anatolius. — 
Ilerzog, ReaLEncyklop. iv, 210; Eusebius, Hist. Eccl. 
vii, 32. (A. J. S.) 

Eusebius of Nicomedia, who may be called the 
leader, if not the organizer, of the Arian party in the 
fourth century, was a distant relative of the emperor 
Julian, and was born about A.D. 324 (Ainmianus Mar- 
cellinus, Ilist. xxii, 9). He was first bishop of Bery- 
tus, in Phoenicia, but got himself translated to Nico- 
media — Theodoret says (i, 19) in violation of the can- 
ons — by the influence of Constantia, sister of the em- 
peror Constantine, whose confidence he had completely 
won. After the excommunication of Arius by Alex- 
ander, bishop of Alexandria (A.D. 321), Eusebius took 
Arius (who had written him a letter asking his aid) 
under his protection, offered him an asylum in his own 
l:ouse, and wrote urgently, though at the present time 
respect ful ly, in his flavor, to Alexander, the patriarch 
of Alexandria (for details, sec Ari anism, vol. i, p. 389). 
As 'Eusebius had been a disciple of Lucian, he proba- 
bly held the opinions of Arius at the time. Socrates 
says that “Eusebius of Nieomedia and his partisans, 
with such as embraced the sentiments of Arius, de- 
manded by letter that the sentence of excommunica- 
tion which had been pronounced against him should 
be rescinded, and that those who had been excluded 
should be readmitted into the Church, as they held no 
unsound doctrine” (Ilist. Eccl. i, 6 ; see also Sozomcn, 
i,15). 

At the Council of Nicrea (A.D. 325), Eusebius and 
his friends used all possible efforts first to carry their 
own opinions through, and then to hinder a definitive 
sentence. Their opposition was finally concentrated 
against the application of the term opooixnog ( consub - 
stantial ) to the Son. All opposition failed, and the or- 
thodox doctrine was established by the council. See 
Arianism, vol. i, p. 389 ; Nic.ea, Council of. Euse- 
bius, finding himself standing nearly alone, affixed his 
signature at last. Philostorgius (i^ 9) asserts that in- 
stead of the term bpoovoiog (of the same essence), Eu- 
sebius and his friends secretly introduced the semi- 
Arian term b/ioioixnog (of like essence); but the state- 
ments of Philostorgius are not to be implicitly be- 
lieved. The decree of the council contained not only 
the Niccne Creed, but also an anathema of certain 
propositions of Arius. This last Eusebius refused to 
sign, declaring to the council that he “submitted to 
their determinations concerning the faith, and consent- 
ed to subscribe to it, even admitting the word consub - 
stantial , according to the genuine signification of it, 
and consequently that he held no erroneous opinion ; 
but that as for the condemnation of Arius, he could 


not subscribe to it ; not that he had a mind to reject 
the points of faith which they had decided, but because 
he did not think that he, whom they accused, was in 
the error that the} r laid to his charge: that, on the 
contrary, he was entirely persuaded, by the letters 
which he received from him, and by the conferences 
which he had had with him, that he was a man whoso 
sentiments were entirely different from those for which 
he was condemned.” Thcognis of Nice, Theonas of 
Marmorica, and Secundus of Ptolemais, agreed with 
him in this. The council condemned them as here- 
tics, and Constantine condemned them to banishment. 
But Arius, Theonas, and Secundus having submitted, 
Eusebius and Theognis finally signed, and were for- 
given by the emperor. 

Soon after the close of the council “ Eusebius show- 
ed a desire to revive the controversy, for which he was 
deprived of his see and banished into Gaul. On this 
occasion Constantine addressed a letter to the people 
of Nieomedia, censuring their exiled bishop in the 
strongest manner as disaffected to his government, as 
the principal supporter of heresy, and a man wholly 
regardless of truth (Theodoret, Eccl. Hist, i, 20). Bui 
he did not long remain under the imperial displeasure ; 
indeed, lie subsequently so completely regained Con- 
stantine’s favor as to be selected to baptize him, not 
long before his death (A.D. 337). His Arian feel- 
ings, however, broke out again, lie procured the de- 
privation of Eustathius (q. v.), bishop of Antioch, and, 
if we may believe Theodoret (i, 21), by suborning a 
woman to bring against him a false accusation of the 
most infamous kind. lie was, perhaps, the most bit- 
ter opponent of Athanasius (see Athanasius), and 
exerted himself to procure the restoration of Arius to 
the full privileges of churchmanship, menacing Alex- 
ander, bishop of Constantinople, with deposition un- 
less he at once admitted him to the holy communion, 
in which he would have succeeded but for the sud- 
den death of Arius. In 339 Eusebius managed to pro- 
cure his election to the see of Constantinople, in de- 
fiance of a canon against translations agreed to at Ni- 
caea. lie died about A.D. 342. Though Eusebius lies 
under the disadvantage of having his character hand- 
ed down to posterity almost entirely by the descrip- 
tion of theological enemies, yet it is difficult to imag- 
ine that he was in any way deserving of esteem. Ilis 
signature to the Nicene Creed was a gross evasion ; nor 
can he he considered to have signed it merely as an 
article of peace, since he was ever afterwards a zeal- 
ous opponent of its principles. It can scarceh r be 
doubted that he was woildly and ambitious. Athana- 
sius considers him as the teacher rather than the dis- 
ciple of Arius ; and afterwards, when the Arians were 
divided among themselves into parties, those who main- 
tained the perfect likeness which the substance of the 
Son bore to that of the father ( Ilomoiousicins ) against 
the Consubstantialists on the one hand, and the pure 
Arians or Annmoians on the other, pleaded the author- 
ity of this Eusebius. The tenets of this party were 
sanctioned by the Council of Seleucia, A.D. 359” 
(Smith, Diet, of Bio rjraphy, s. v.). See, besides the 
works already cited, Cave, Hist. Lit. (Genev.) i, 118; 
Neander, Ch. Hist. ii,367 sq. ; Newman, History of the 
Arians; Lardncr, Works, iii, 594; Herzog, Real-Ency - 
klup. iv, 242 ; Waterland, IPorfo? (Oxf. 1843), ii, 369 sq. 

Eusebius of Vercelli, was born in Sardinia; 
was baptized in Borne by pope Eusebius ; and became 
lector , or ecclesiastical reader at Borne. He was or- 
dained bishop of Vercelli, in Piedmont, A.D. 340, with 
the unanimous consent of clergy and people. lie was 
the first in the West who united the monastic life with 
the clerical (Ambrose, cited by Ceillier, v, 500). Popo 
Liberius requested him to go with Lucifer of Cagliari, 
and other legates, on an embassy to Constantins, by 
whom the persecution of Athanasius had been sanc- 
tioned. They visited the emperor (at Arles or Val- 
ence), and prevailed on him to summon tho Council 


EUSEBIUS 


362 


EUSTATIIIANS 


of Lilian, which met A. I). 355. The Ensebians (Ari- 
ans) at this council urged the condemnation of Atha- 
nasius, and the emperor sided with them. Eusebius 
of Vercelli having received the emperor’s order to sign 
the condemnation of Athanasius, refused, but express- 
ed bis willingness to subscribe the Nicene Creed. Lu- 
cifer of Cagliari and Dionvsius of Milan refused also. 
The third session was held in the palace, the Arum 
party fearing the violence of the people. The em- 
peror himself then sent for the three above-mentioned 
bishops, and commanded them either to sign the docu- 
ment. or to prepare for banishment ; they, on their part, 
earnestly entreated him to remember the account he 
would be called upon to give in the day of judgment, 
and besought him not to introduce the heresy of Arius 
into the Church; but all was of no avail, and Euse- 
bius, Dionysius, and Lucifer were sentenced to ban- 
ishment. At Scythopolis, in Palestine, bis place of 
exile, lie was warmly welcomed, and also encouraged 
by an embassy from his people at Vercelli. But at 
last he was brutally outraged, dragged naked through 
the streets, and imprisoned in a dungeon. He was 
then transferred to Cappadoeia, and thence to the The- 
liaid (Theodoret, Hist. Eccl. iii, 4 ; Sozomen, Hist. Eccl. 
v, 12). After the death of Constantius, his successor, 
Julian, issued an edict recalling the exiled bishops. 
Eusebius went first to Alexandria, where he stood 
by Athanasius in the eouneil of A.D. 3G2 in taking 
measures to heal the Antiochian schism. See Eus- 
TATiiiANS. The eouneil sent him to Antioeh to end 
the strife there, but the ordination of Paulinus (q. 
v.) by Lucifer of Cagliari had made matters worse 
than ever. After travelling through the East he 
returned to Italy, where he was welcomed with en- 
thusiasm, particularly in his own dioeese. lie show- 
ed himself, in the latter years of his life, a great ad- 
mirer of monastieism, and introduced among the cler- 
gy of his diocese the common life. Having learned 
that the bishop Auxentius, of Milan, with the sup- 
port of the emperor Valentinian, was very actively la- 
boring for the triumph of Arianism, Eusebius, in SG4, 
suddenly appeared in Milan to attack Arianism in its 
stronghold, but the emperor soon ordered him back to 
his diocese. He died in 371. An inscription on his 
tomb calls him a martyr, and, according to a later le- 
gend, he was killed by the Arians ; but the writers that 
are best informed about him (Ambrose, Gregory of 
Tours, etc.) know nothing of his martyrdom. The 
Church of Pome formerly commemorated him as a 
martyr on the 1st of August, and now on the lGth of 
December. We possess three Epistohe of Eusebius : 
1. Ad CiMstantium Augustum : — 2. A d prcsbgteros ct ple- 
bes Jtalitr, written on the occasion of his banishment, 
to which is attached Libellus facti , a sort of protest 
against the violent conduct of the Arum bishop Patro- 
philus, who was in some sort his jailor during his resi- 
dence at Scythopolis: — 3. Ad Gregorium Episc. Ilisp., 
found among the fragments of Hilary (xi, § 5). lie 
executed, also, a translation of the Commentary of his 
namesake, Eusebius of Caesarea, on the Psalms ; and 
an edition of the Evangelists, from a copy said to be 
transcribed by bis own hand, preserved at Vercelli, was 
publi idled, at Milan (1748, 4to) by J. A. Irieo ; and again 
by Blanchini, at Pome, 1748. This edition is given 
also in Migne, Patrol. Lat. vol. xii. The Eplstoke will 
be found in Bill. Pair. Galland. vol. v; part of them in 
Bib. Max. Pair. vol. v; and all in Migne, Patrol. Lat. 
vol. xii. — Ilerzog, Beal-Encyl:lopudir } iv, 245; Mohler, 
Athanasius dcr Grosse ; Ceillicr, A uteurs Sacres (Paris, 
18G5), iv, 271 sq. 

Eusebius, St., of Samosata, one of the pillars of 
the orthodox Church of the fourth century in its con- 
flicts with Arianism. Nothing is known of his early 
life. He was appointed bishop of Samosata' in 3G1, 
and in the same year was present at the Synod of An- 
tioch, at which both Arians and Catholics eleeted Me- 
letius patriarch of Antioch. The document of elec- 


tion, signed by both parties, was deposited with Euse- 
bius. When Meletius, in his very first sermon, de- 
clared himself strongly in favor of the doctrine of the 
Council of Nice, tbe Arians indueed the emperor to de- 
mand from Eusebius the surrender of the certificate 
of election. On his refusal he was threatened with 
having his right hand eut off ; but be resolutely held 
out both hands, declaring his readiness to lose both 
bis hands rather than “resign a document contain- 
ing so manifest a demonstration of the impiety of 
tbe Arians” (Theodoret, Hist. Ecclts. ii, 32). During 
tbe persecution of tbe orthodox by Valens, he trav- 
elled, disguised as a soldier, through Syria, Phoeni- 
cia, and Palestine, everywhere consecrating orthodox 
priests, and confirming the people in the Nicene faith. 
At the disputed election of a bishop for C’sesarea, in 
Cappadoeia (370), he aided in securing the success of 
the orthodox Basil (q. v.). lie ever after remained 
an intimate friend of Basil, and with him, in 372 and 
373, took a leading part in the effort to secure, with 
the support of the Western ehurches, the success of 
the Nicene party also in the East. lie was, there- 
fore, a special object of hatred to the Arians, who 
in 373 prevailed upon the emperor to exile him to 
Tliraeia. After the death of Valens (378) Eusebius 
was allowed to return to his diocese. He at once be- 
gan to display an extraordinary activity in appointing 
Nicene in the place of Arian bishops. While enter- 
ing the town of Doliea for this purpose in 379 (or 
380), he was killed bv a stone thrown by the hand of 
some Arian woman (Theodoret, Hist. Eccl. v, 4). The 
Chureh of Borne venerates him as a saint on July 21, 
and the Greek Church on July 22. — Herzog, Peal-En- 
cgllop. iv, 499; C’eillier, Auteurs Sacres (Paris, 18G5), 
v, 1 sq. (A. J. S.) 

Eusebius, bishop of Thessaloniea, A.D. G01, wrote 
against the Aplithartodocetce, , especially in reply to a 
monk Andreas, “ who taught that Christ’s body be- 
came incorruptible when joined to his divinity; that 
Adam’s body was not created liable to corruption ; and 
that the world, in its original form, was incorruptible 
also.” These and other errors Eusebius wished him to 
retraet ; but, instead of prevailing, Andreas attempted 
to fortify bis posts by farther defences, which induced. 
Eusebius to write ten books against the positions he 
had before attacked, showing that Andreas had misun- 
derstood Scripture and wilfully misquoted the fathers. 
Of these works there are no remains except what are 
preserved by Photius in his Biblioth Cod. 1G2. — Cave, 
Hist. Lit. (Genev. 1720), i, 373 ; Clarke, Slice. Sac. Lit. 
ii, 37G. 

Eustathians. 1. Eustathius, bishop of Antioch, 
was deposed at the Arian Council of A.D. 331. See 
Eustathius. The orthodox people of Antioch re- 
fused to receive an Arian bishop as his successor, and 
kept aloof, therely gaining the name “Eustathians.” 
In A.D. 3G0, Meletius (q. v.) was transferred by the 
Arians from the see of Sebaste to Antioeh ; but, though 
he adhered to the Nicene Creed, the “Eustathians” 
would not recognise him, as they refused to regard an 
Arian ordination. A moderate party, however, of the 
orthodox in Antioch did recognise him, and so arose 
the opposition of the “Meletians” to the “ Enstatlii- 
ans.” The schism was made worse by the appointment 
of Paulinus (A.D. 3G2) as bishop of the Eustathians. 
The Western churches, with the Egyptian, recognised 
Paulinus, while the Orientals recognised Meletius. — 
Neander, Ch. Hid. Torrey’s transl. ii, 411 ; Guericke, 
Ch. Hist. Shedd’s transl. § 85. See Meletius. 

2. A sect in the fourth century, which taught that 
married people were excluded from salvation, prohib- 
ited their followers from praying in their houses, and 
obliged them to -quit all their possessions as incom- 
patible with the hope of salvation. They wore a par- 
ticular habit ; appointed Sunday as a fast, and taught 
that the ordinary fasts of the Church arc needless after 


363 


EUTH ALIUS 


EUSTATHIUS 


people have attained to a certain degree of purity. I 
The sect probably derived its name from Eustathius, | 
semi-Arian bishop of Sebaste (f 380), who was con- 
demned in the Council of Gangra, in Paphlagonia, held 
between the years 326 and 341. But it has been 
strongly argued on the other hand that the Eustathius 
who founded the sect was a different person, an Arme- 
nian monk. Walch (Ilist. d. Ketzereien , iii, 536) has 
treated the subject at large.— Murd. Mosheim, Ch. Hist. 
bk. ii, c. iv, pt. ii, ch. iii, § 19, n. 39 ; Socrates, 1L E. ii, 
43 ; Sozomen, II. E. iii, 14 ; Meander, Ch. Hist, ii, 419 ; 
Dupin, Hist. Eccl. cent, iv; Bingham, Oriy. Eccl. bk. 
xxii, ch. i, § 8. See Eustathius of Sebaste. 

Eustathius of Antioch was born at Sida, in 
Pamphylia (Hieron. Ccital. 85). He was for some time 
bishop of Berea, from whence he was translated to the 
see of Antioch in 325 by the unanimous suffrage of 
clergy and people (Tlieodoret, II. E. i, 7). At the Coun- 
cil of Mice, in 325, he earnestly opposed the Arians, who, 
at the (Arian) Synod of Antioch, A.D. 331, took their 
revenge upon him. Eusebius of Niconiedia (or Cyrus 
of Berea) charged him with Sabellianisin (Socrates, II. 
E. i, 24) ; but, according to Sozomen (II. E. ii, 19), the 
pretext resorted to for his deposition was that he “had 
defiled the priesthood by unholy deeds.” The synod de- 
posed him, and the people of Antioch was stirred by the 
act almost to the point of sedition. This angered Con- 
stantine, who, moreover, was now, under the influence 
of Eusebius of Micomcdia, favorable to the Arians. 
Eustathius had also incurred the ill will of Eusebius of 
Caesarea, whom he charged with unfaithfulness to the 
Niccnc Creed. He was banished to Thrace, where he 
died before A.D. 337 (Socrates, i, 24, 25; Sozomen, I.c.). 
His innocence as to the charge of immorality was fully 
shown by the confession of the woman who had sworn 
against hi in. The orthodox people of Antioch refused 
to acknowledge any other bishop, and, so long as they 
remained in this separate condition (until the fifth cen- 
tury), they were called Eustathiuns (Meander, Ch.IIist. 
Torrey’s, ii, 411). Eustathius was a thorough oppo- 
nent of the school of Origen, and this constituted one 
of the points of antagonism between him and Eusebius 
of Caesarea. He was a copious writer, but only one 
work of his known to be genuine is now extant, viz. 
'Kard 'Qpiyti'ouf ciayvioariKog tig rb Ttjg tyyaaryo- 
fii '>0ov dubmgia, against Origen, on the subject of the 
Pythoness consulted by Saul. Origen had asserted 
that the witch of Endor had really brought up the 
spirit of Samuel ; Eustathius refutes him with great 
acuteness, but also not without an unworthy disdain 
in replying to so great a man. This treatise is to be 
found at the end of Leo Allatius’s edition of the Ilep- 
teemeron (1629, 4to, improperly ascribed to Eustathius). 
It is also given in the Critica Sacra, viii, 331 sq., and in 
Bibl. Max. Pair. xvii. There are fragments of a trea- 
tise of his on The Soul , and of his Homilies; all of 
which, with the treatise against Origen above named, 
are given in Migne, Patrol. Greec. xviii, 614 sq. See 
Fabricius, Bib. Grceca , ed. Ilarles, ix, 131 sq. ; Oudin, 
Script. Eccles. i, 317 sq. ; Ceillier, A utcurs Sacres, Paris, 
1865, iii, 168 sq. ; Cave, Hist. Lit. Genev. 1720, i, 119 ; 
Lardner, IJor&s, iv, 149 ; Dorner, Person of Christ , Ed- 
inburgh transl., div. i, vol. ii, p. 518 sq. 

Eustathius of Thessalonica, one of the most 
learned bishops of the Greek Church in the Middle 
Ages, was a native of Constantinople. He was at first 
a monk, subsequently a deacon of the church of St. 
Sophia, and a teacher of eloquence, lie also held a 
position at the court, having charge of all petitions, 
and in this capacity presented to the emperor a peti- 
tion of the city of Constantinople on the occasion of 
a great scarcity of water. In this period of his life 
Eustathius compiled his celebrated commentaries on 
Greek classics, which give proof of an immense amount 
of reading, and are the more valuable as they contain 
many extracts from works which are now lost. It is 


especially the commentary on Homer (Rome, 1542-50, 
4 vols. ; Basel, 1559-GO, 3 vols. ; with register by De- 
varius, edited by Stallbaum, Leips. 1825-30, 6 vols.), 
which is a storehouse of learning. Of his commentary 
on Pindar, only the procemium is now extant (published 
by Schneidewin, Gotti ng. 1837). In 1174 (or 1175) he 
was elected bishop of Myra, in Lycia, but before he had 
assumed the administration of this diocese the emperor 
appointed him metropolitan of Thessalonica. In 1180, 
when the emperor Manuel desired a mitigation of the 
formula of abjuration which the converts from Moham- 
medanism had to pronounce, Eustathius, at the synod, 
firmly opposed the emperor, who was greatly displeased 
with this opposition, but nevertheless remained a patron 
of Eustathius. When, in 1185, Thessalonica was con- 
quered and plundered by the Xormans under William 
II of Sicily, Eustathius was indefatigable in bis efforts 
in behalf of the city. Ills theological writings were 
for the first time published by Dr. Tafel (Opuscula e 
codcl. Basil. Paris. Veneto, mincprimum edidit Th. L. F. 
Tafel, Francof. 1832 ; and with an Appendix, in Tafel, 
De Thessalonica, Berlin, 1839). They are noted for 
outspoken evangelical sentiments. Of special impor- 
tance in this respect is the work Meditations on the Mo- 
nastic State (t 7 ri(TKf\pig fitov pova\iKov; transl. into 
German \Betrachtungen ilber d. Monchsstand ] by G. L. 
F. Tafel, Berlin. 1847). Some of his works, e. g. a com- 
mentary on John of Damascus, are still extant in MS. 
Eustathius died in Thessalonica about 1194. — Herzog, 
Peal- Encyhl. iv, 247 ; Wetzer u. Weltc, Kirch.-Lex. iii, 
771 ; Meander, KaraJcteristik des Eustathius in seiner 
reformator. Riddling , in Meander, Wissenschaftliche Ab- 
liamll. (Berlin, 1851). (A. J. S.) 

Eustathius, semi-Arian bishop of Sebaste, in Ar- 
menia, in the fourth century, was a great advocate of 
monasticism, which lie introduced into Armenia. The 
ascetic fanatics called Eustathians are supposed to 
have taken their name and their practices from him 
(hut see Eustathians, 2). He also founded in Se- 
baste a hospital for the poor, over which he placed 
yErius, then liis devoted friend. But later iErius 
charged him with avarice, and they quarrelled. See 
JErians. Eustathius died about A.D. 380. — Socrates, 
Hist. Eccles. ii, 43; Sozomen, Hist. Eccles. iii, 14; Me- 
ander, Church Hist. Torrey’s transl. ii, 342 ; Ilefele, 
Conciliengeschichte, i, 652 sq. 

Eustochium, Julia, was born at Rome about 
A.D. 365. A daughter of Paula (q. v.), she imitated 
the ascetic piety of her mother. In 382 she took the 
vow of virginity, and put herself under the direction 
of Jerome, who gave her instructions relative to the 
life she had chosen. It was for her that he wrote 
(383) his treatise on Virginity. On his departure from 
Rome, Paula and Eustochium accompanied him, and 
settled near him in a monastery near Bethlehem. 
After the death of Paula (404), Eustochium succeed- 
ed her as superior of the monastery. So greatly 
was she profited by Jerome’s instructions that she 
gained a knowledge of the Greek and Hebrew lan- 
guages. To her Jerome dedicated his Commentaries 
on Ezekiel and Isaiah. He translated also the rules 
of Pachomius into Latin for the use of the members of 
the monastery at Bethlehem. In 416 the Pelagians 
burned this monastery and outraged the inmates. She 
is celebrated as a saint in the Roman Church on the 
28th of September. — Hoofer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xvi, 
792 ; Butler, Lives of the Saints , ix, 775; Milman, Hist, 
of Christianity (N. Y. I860), iii, 234. 

Euthalius, bishop of Sulce, 5th century, is sup- 
posed to have been the first to divide the N. T. into 
verses. Some of the poetical parts of the O. T. had 
been arranged in lines (<myoi), and Euthalius (A.D. 
438) divided Paul’s epistles into verses. Afterwards 
he so arranged Acts and the Catholic Epistles. The 
division into chapters had been made by a previous 
writer (A.D. 396), and Euthalius adopted it. Erasmus, 


liUTimilUS ZIGABEXUS 


364 


EUTYCIIIAXISM 


in bis X. T., inserts the Arguments of Eutlialius to the i 
Acts and to Paul's epistles. 31 is Prologue to St. Paul's 
Epistles, including a sketch of Paul’s life, was publish- 
ecl by J. 11. Bocclerus at the end of his N. T. (Argcn- 
tor. 1G 15, 1660). All the remains of Eutlialius are giv- 
en by Zaccagni, Coll. J (on. Yet. Eccles. Grcec. (Pome, 
1608, 4to). — Horne, Introduction, pt. i, eh. ii, § 3 ; Cave, 
Hist. Lit. (Genev. 17*20), i. 

Euthymius Zigabemis (or Zigadenus), a 
Greek monk and theologian of the 12th century. lie 
lived in the time of the emperor Alexius Comnenus 
(about A.D. 1120), and was bis intimate friend. Of 
his life little is known, except from the Alexias of Anna 
Comnena (lib. xv), who praises bis talent and scholar- 
ship. The following writings of his have been pub- 
lished: (1.) Uai’OTrXm coy/mmTy, Panoplia Dogmatica, 
against all heresies, written by the order of Alexius 
Comnenus, and divided into two parts and 24 sections, 
each treating of a heresy. It consists chiefly of digest- 
ed extracts from preceding writers. A Latin trans- 
lation of it was published by Zinus (Venice, 1555, fol. ; 
reprinted at Lyons, 1556 and 1580, 8vo); also in Bihl. 
Patrum (Lyons), xix. This translation omits the 12th 
and 13th titles “against the Pope and the Italians.” 
The Greek original was published at Tergovist, in 
Wallaehia (1710, fol.), and is very rare. It omits the 
last title, which is contained in Syl burg’s Saracenica , 
p. 1-54. (2.) Victoria et triumphus de impia Massali- 

anorum seefa, etc. (Victory and Triumph over the im- 
pious, manifold, and execrable sect of the Messalians, 
etc.), together with fourteen anathemas against them : 
edited, Gr., with Latin version and notes, by Tollius, 
in his Insignia Ithaeris Italici (Traject. ad Iihen. 1696, 
4to); also in Gnllandii Bihl. Pair, xiv*, 293. (3.) Com - 
mentanus in Psalmos ( [Commentary on all the Psalms of 
David ); Latin version by Saul us (Verona, 1530, fol. ; 
often reprinted) ; also (Gr. and Lat.) in Theophylacti 
Opera Omnia , vol. iv (Venet. 1763, fol.). (4.) A Com- 
mentary on the four Gospels , his most important work, 
compiled from St. Chrysostom and other fathers; Lat- 
in version bv J. Hentenius (Louvain, 1544, fol. ; Paris, 
1547, 1560, and 160*2, Svo) ; best edit. b} r C. F. Matthau, 
Gr.and Lat. (Lips. 1792, 4 vols.). The work is still con- 
sidered one of great value. See Matthau's preface for 
full notices of Euthymius, and for the judgments of the 
learned concerning his writings. Many of his writ- 
ings yet remain in MS. All his published works are 
given in Migne, Patrologici Grceca , vol. cxxviii-exxxi. 
— Fabricius, Bihl. Graea , ed. Harles, viii, 328 sq. ; Cave, 
Hist. Lit. (Genev. 1720), i, 567 ; Oudin, Serij)t. Eccles. 
ii, 979; Lardner, IForfe, v, 164; Ullmaun, in TJieol. 
Stud. u. Krit. 1833, p. 647 sq. 

Eutyches, the so-called founder of Eutychianism, 
though the opinions advocated hv him existed before 
(see Selig, De Eutychianismo ante Eutycheii). His 
name Eutyches means “ the Fortunate, but his oppo- 
nents said lie should rather have been named Atyches, 
the Unfortunate, lie must not be confounded with 
the deacon Eutyches, who attended Cyril to the Coun- 
cil of Ephesus. Leo the Great, in his renowned letter 
to Flavian, calls him very ‘ignorant and unskilled,’ 
multum imprudens et minis imperitus, and justly at- 
tributes his error rather to imperitia than to versutia. 
So also Petavius and Ilefele (ii, 300). His relation to 
the Alexandrian Christology is like that of Xestorius 
to the Antiochian ; that is, he drew it to a head, brought 
it to popular expression, and adhered obstinately to it; 
but he is considerably inferior to Xestorius in talent 
and learning. His connection with this controversy is 
in a great measure accidental” (Schaff, Hist, of Christ. 
Church, iii, 736). lie led, from Ins early age, an ascetic 
life ; was for thirty years archimandrite of a monastery 
near Constantinople, and had readied his 70th year 
without being known for anything except his illit- 
erate fanaticism, liis intimate relations with the all- 
powerful Chrysaphius, minister of Theodosius, and his 


influence with the monastic party which blindly fol- 
lowed the lead of Cyril of Alexandria. He used his 
influence in favor of Cyril at the (Ecumenical Council 
of Ephesus, a copy of the minutes of which was sent to 
him by Cyril. After the death of Cyril he was on in- 
timate terms with Cyril’s successor, Dioscurus (q. v.). 
In 448 Eutyches wrote a letter to the Roman bishop 
Leo to prejudice him against the school of Antioch (q. 
v.), which, he insinuated, was bent on reviving Nes- 
torianism. To counteract his operations, patriarch 
Domnus, of Antioch, in 448 charged Eutyches with 
renewing the heresy of Apollinaris. No notice seems 
to have been taken at the imperial court of this 
charge ; hut the charges brought against him before 
the Synod of Constantinople (448) by his former friend 
Eusebius, bishop of Dorylaemn (q. v.), had more ef- 
fect. Patriarch Flavian, of Constantinople (q. v.), 
wished to avoid taking any decisive action, hut Euse- 
bius prevailed upon the synod to summon Eutyches. 
The latter, after making several excuses, obeyed the 
third summons, and presented himself before the syn- 
od, attended by a large number of monks and imperial 
officers. He defended his views in a long speech, but 
the synod, largely consisting of adherents of the An- 
tioch school, found him guilty of heresy, and, in spite 
of all the secular pressure brought to hear upon them 
in favor of Eutyches, deprived him of his position of 
archimandrite, and excommunicated him. Eutyches, 
with the aid of his friend Chrysaphius, obtained from 
the emperor a revison of the trial by a new general 
council to be convoked at Fplie&us. Flavian and Leo 
of Rome strenuously opposed the holding of the council. 
Leo, who had been written to by both parties, was en- 
couraged. by this circumstance to claim a right to de- 
cide the controversy, and for this purpose wrote the 
celebrated epistle to Flavian (Mansi, v, 126G sq.) See 
the article Ciialcedox, vol. ii, p. 196; and Leo. But, 
owing to the influence of Eutyches and Dioscurus of 
Alexandria, the council was held, under the presidency 
of Dioscurus, and, amidst scenes of unheard of vio- 
lence, which have given to the council the name of 
the* Robber Council, the bishops were compelled to re- 
store Eutyches to the Cliuieh and his former position, 
and to condemn the prominent men of the Antioch 
school. See Ephesus, Robber-Council of. The 
emperor promptly sanctioned this decision, and thus 
Eutychianism was on the point of becoming the pre- 
dominant doctrine of the Eastern Church, when the 
death of Theodosius (450) gave a new’ turn lo the con- 
troversy. The empress Puleheria and her husband 
Mareian sympathized with the opponents of Eutyches, 
recalled the exiled bishops, and convened the (Ecu- 
menical Council of Chaleedon (451), which condemned 
the views held by Eutyches, and declared that “in 
Christ two distinct natures are united in one person, 
and that without any change, mixture, or confusion.*’ 
See Ciialcedox, Council of. Even before the meet- 
ing of the council Eutyches had again been excommu- 
nicated by patriarch Anatolius of Constantinople, and 
expelled from his monastery by Mareian. The coun- 
cil did not again condemn him by name. Of the last 
years of Eutyches w e only know that he died in exile. 
— Herzog, Deal- Ency Hop. iv, 251; Banr, I a lire von d. 
Dreiehrigkcit , i, 800; Xeander, Church History (Tor- 
rey’s), iii, 501-505; Dorner, Person of Christ, div. ii, 
vol. i and ii ; Waterland, Works (Oxford), iii, 411, 481. 
(A. J. S.) 

Eutychianism, the name of a doctrinal system 
called after Eutyches, according to which there w as in 
Christ only one nature, that of the incarnate Word, 
his human nature having been absorbed in a manner 
by his divine nature. Eutyches, like Cyril, laid chief 
stress on the divine in Christ, and denied that two na- 
tures could he spoken of after the incarnation. In our 
Lord, after His birth, he worshipped only one nature, 
the nature of God become flesh and man : giav $vmv 
7 ? poGKvvtiv, Kai ravnjv Ofou oapKioSavroe; Kai ivav • 


EUTYCHIANISM 


SC5 


EUTYCIIIAXUS 


Spio 7 n)<jai>T 0 Q, or, as he declared before the synod at 
Constantinople, 'OgoXoyio tie cvo <pvatu)v ytytvvi)a$ai 
tov Kvpiov ij}xu>v 7 rpo rijg Ivijatutg * gtrd c'e t>)v huoaiv 
jiiav (pvmv uyoXoyio (Mansi, vi, 744). In behalf of 
his view he appealed to the Scriptures, to Athanasius 
and Cyril, and to the Council of Ephesus in 431. The 
impersonal human nature is assimilated, and, as it 
were, deified by the personal Logos, so that his body j 
is by no means of the same substance (byoovmoji) with 
ours, but a divine body. All human attributes are 
transferred to the one subject, the humanized Logos. 
Hence it may and must be said, God is born, God suf- 
fered, God was crucified and died. He asserted, there- 
fore, on the one hand, the capability of suffering and 
death in the Logos-personality, and, on the other hand, 
the deification of the human in Christ. The other 
side imputed to Eutychianisin the doctrine of a heav- 
enly body, or of an apparent body, or of the transfor- 
mation of the Logos into flesh. So Theodoret (Fab. 
h'.cr. iv, 13). Eutyches said Christ had a <r wpa av- 
Spioirou, but not a erw/ta di'3 , pw7rti'oi', and he denied 
the consubstantiality of his crap£ with ours. Yet he 
expressly guarded himself against Docetism, and 
against all speculation: 4>u<T<o\oy£7p tyavny ouk t7ri- 
rp'cTru). He was really neither a philosopher nor a 
theologian, but only insisted on some theological opin- 
ions and points of doctrine with great tenacity and ob- 
stinacy” (Schaff, History of the Christian Church , iii, 
737 sq.). 

Bishop Forbes cites Photius and Johannes Damns- 
cenus aptly on Eutychianisin as follows, viz. : “If 
there be one nature in Christ, it is either the divine or 
the human nature ; if it be only the divine nature, 
where is the human ? and if there be only the human, 
you cannot escape from denying the divine. But if it 
be something different from these (for this is the only 
other alternative they have, and they seem to lean 
that way), how shall not in that case Christ be of a 
different nature, both from his Father and from us? 
Can anything be more impious or absurd to say that 
the Word of God, who is God, became man, to the cor- 
ruption of his own deity, and to the annihilation of the 
humanity he assumed? For this absolutely follows 
with those who have dared to speak of Christ as of 
neither nature, but of one besides these” (Photius, 
Epist. i, cont. Eutych. c it. Suker). “ The two natures 
were without conversion or alteration joined together, 
and the divine nature did not depart from its own sim- 
plicity, nor did the nature of man turn into the nature 
of God, nor was it deprived of existence, nor was one 
composite nature made out of two ; for a "composite 
nature cannot be consubstantial with either of those 
natures from whence it is compounded. If, therefore, 
according to the heretics, Christ exist in one com- 
pounded nature after the union, he is changed from a 
simple into a compounded nature, and is not consub- 
stantial with his Father, who is of a simple nature, 
nor with his mother, for she is not made up of the 
Godhead and manhood. And he will be neither in 
the Godhead nor in the manhood, nor will he be called 
God or man, but Christ only ; and Christ will be the 
name not of his person, but of his own nature, as they j 
deem. But we do not hold Christ to be of a composite 
nature, as the body and soul make the man, but we 
believe and confess that he is of the Godhead and 
manhood; perfect God and perfect man from and in 
two natures. Were he of one nature, the same nature 
would be at once created and increate, simple and 
composite, moital and immortal. And the union of I 
two natures in Jesus Christ has taken place neither by 
disorder (0?>o/io£) nor by mixture (svnerasis or ana- 
crasis), as Eutyches, Dioscorns (of Alexandria), and 1 
Severus say ; neither is it personal (7rnom*>7rtKw) nor 
relative, nor tear u%iav y nor from identity of will, nor 
from equality of honor, nor from the same name, as 
Nestorius, Diodorus (of Tarsus), and Theodoras (of 
Mopsuestia) said ; but by synthesis ; or personally 


(ica$’ vTTOGTaaiv), immutably, inconfusedly, unaltera- 
bly, inherently, inseparably, in two perfect natures in 
one person. And we term this union essential (oum- 
wetf), that is, true and not fantastic ; essential, not in 
that one nature is made of the two, but that they are 
mutually united in truth into one composite person of 
the Son of God. And their substantial differences are 
preserved, for that which is created remains created, 
and that which is increate remains increate ; the mor- 
tal remains mortal, the immortal abides immortal. 
The one shines forth in miracles, the other submits to 
injuries ; and the Word appropriates to itself that 
which is of man. For its are the things that pertain 
to the Sacred Flesh, and it gives its own properties to 
the flesh, according to the law of the communication 
of properties and the unity of person, for he is the 
same who performs both the God-like and the man- 
like actions in either form with the communion of the 
other. Wherefore the Lord of glory is said to be cru- 
cified, although the divine nature did not suffer, and 
the Son of man, even before his passion, is confessed 
to be in heaven, as the Lord himself said (John iii). 
For there is one and the same Lord of glory, who is 
naturally and in truth the Son of man, that is, made 
man. We acknowledge both his miracles and his suf- 
ferings, though the first were performed according to 
one nature, the latter endured according to the other. 
Thus we know that his one person and his two natures 
are preserved. By the difference of the natures he is, 
on the one hand, one with the Father and the Holy 
Ghost; on the other hand, he is one with his mother 
and with us. And these two natures are joined in one 
composite person, in which he differs as from the Fa- 
ther and the Holy Ghost, so from his mother and us 
also” (Joh. Damascenus, Fid. Orth, iii, 3, abr.). Bishop 
Forbes adds : “ Kow we have all a great tendency to 
Eutychianisin. It gets over a great difficulty in the 
reception of truth to believe the humanity of our Lord 
destroyed. For faith now requires of us to believe 
that the human bod)’’ of Jesus Christ still is , and that 
to it the Word is hypostatically joined, and that be- 
yond the spheres and systems of which we are cogni- 
zant, it, partaking of our nature, is at the right hand 
of God” (On the Xicene Creed , Oxford, 1852, p. 201 sq.). 

The Council of Chaleedon (A.D. 451) adopted the 
doctrine stated by pope Leo in his letter to Flavianns 
[see Leo], viz. in substance, “that in Christ two dis- 
tinct natures were united in one person, without any 
change, mixture, or confusion.” The Creed of Chal- 
cedon states that “the one Son of God, our Lord Jesus 
Christ, is of one substance with the Father according 
to the Godhead, and of one substance with ns accord- 
ing to the manhood — like to us in all things except 
sin ; one and the same Christ, Son, Lord, Only-begot- 
ten, in two natures, without confusion, withont con- 
version, without division, without separation — the dif- 
ference of the natures not being taken away by reason 
of the unity, but the propriety of each being preserved 
and joined together to form one person.” The creed 
of the council was not by any means universally re- 
ceived in the East. But the name Eutychianisin gave 
way to that of Monophysitism. The ecclesiastical or- 
ganizations adhering to the heresy are commonly 
known by the names of Jacobites, Armenian Church, 
Copts, and Abyssinian Church (see the special articles 
on these churches). For a sketch of the fortunes of 
the theory known as Eutychianism, see Monopiiy- 
sites. See also Ciialcedon ; Christology ; Eu- 
tyciies; Dioscuros; and consult Pearson, On the 
Creed (Oxford, 1820), ii, 179 sq. ; Schaff, Ch. History , 
1. c. ; Waterland, IFor&s (Oxford), iii, 115, 411; lle- 
fele, Conciliengeschichte, ii, 249 et al. ; Baur, Dogmerf- 
geschichte, i, 2, 25G sq. ; Cunningham, Historical The- 
ology, ch. x, § 1. 

Eutychianus, pope and martyr, succeeded Felix 
I, bishop of Rome, Jan. 275; died as martyr or con- 
fessor Dec. 8, 283. Some decretals are ascribed to him, 


EUTYCiinrs 


366 EVAGRIUS SCHOLASTICUS 


which may be found in Migne’s ed. of the remains of 
Sixti Papa, et al. ( Patrol . Latina , vol. v). 

Eutychius of Constantinople “was originally 
a monk of the town of Amaseia, whence he was sent by 
his fellow-citizens to Constantinople as proxy for their 
bishop. The great talent he displayed in some theo- 
logical controversy gained him general admiration, and 
the emperor, in A.D. 553, raised him to the highest 
dignity in the Church at Constantinople. In the same 
year lie accordingly presided at an oecumenical synod 
which was held in that city. In A.D. 5G4 he incurred 
the anger of the emperor Justinian by refusing to give 
his assent to a decree respecting the incorruptibility of 
the body of Christ previous to his resurrection, and 
was expelled from his see in consequence, lie was at 
first confined in a monastery, then transported to an 
island, Princepo, and at last to his original convent, 
Amaseia. In 57 8 the emperor Tiberius restored him 
to his see, which he henceforth retained until his death 
in 585, at the age of 73. There is extant by him a 
letter addressed to pope Yigilius on the occasion of his 
elevation in A.D. 553. It is printed in Greek and 
Latin among the Acta Synodi quinta Concil. v, 425, etc. 
lie also wrote some other treatises, which, however, 
are lost” (Smith, Diet, of Biography , s. v.). — Evagrius, 
Hist. Eccl. iv, 38 ; Cave, 1 list. Lit. (Genev. 1720) i, 341. 

Eutychius, patriarch of Alexandria, w T as born at 
Fostat (ancient Cairo) in 876. His Arabic name was 
Said-ibn-Batrik. lie w’as originally a physician, ap- 
plied himself to the study of theology towards the close 
of his life, and was elected Melchite (or orthodox) patri- 
arch of Alexandria in 933, and died about A.D. 946. 
He wrote, in Arabic, a Chronicle or A nnals from the cre- 
ation of the world to A.D. 937, under the Arabic title 
Xathm-el-Gavhar , String of Pearls; translated and ed- 
ited by E. Pococke under the title Contextio Gemma- 
rum, sire Annates , Arab, et Lat. (Oxonii, 1658-59, some 
copies 1656-64, 2 vols. 4to) : — Fragmenta duo de Pas- 
chate, et de SS. Eucharistia institutinne (in Alai, Script. 
Yet. ix, 623). Selden published an extract under the 
title Ecclesiee sua origines , ex Arubico cum vers. Lat. 
(Lond. 1642, 4to), to which Abraham Ecchelensis re- 
plied in Eutychius Yindicutus , sire Pesponsio ad J. Sel- 
deni Origines (Pom. 1661, 4to). — Iloefer, Nouv. Blog. 
Generate , xvi, 810; Graesse, Tresor de Livres Pares , i, 
530. 

Eu'tychus (EtViyof, of good fortune, a frequent 
name ; see Josephus, Ant. xviii, 6, 5 ; xix, 4, 4), a 
young man ofTroas, who sat in the open window of 
the third floor while Paul v\as preaching late in the 
night, and who, being overcome by sleep, fell out into 
the court below, May, A.D. 55. lie was “ taken up 
dead” (jypfbj mrpoc,-); but the apostle, going down, 
extended himself upon the body and embraced it, like 
the prophets of old (1 Kings xvii, 21 ; 2 Kings iv, 34) ; 
and when he felt the signs of returning life, restored 
him to his friends, with the assurance that “his life 
W’as in him.” Before Paul departed in the morning 
the youth was brought to him alive and well (Acts 
xx, 5-12). All the intimations of the narrative forbid 
us for a moment to entertain the view’ of those critics 
who suppose that animation was merely suspended 
(Bloomfield, Ilackett, in loc.). See Paul. 

31 r. Jowett states that, during his residence at Hai- 
vali in May, 1818, the house in which he abode gave 
him a correct idea of the falling of Eutychus from the 
upper loft while Paul was preaching at Troas. “Ac- 
cording to our idea of houses,” he remarks, “the scene 
of Eutyehus’s falling from the upper loft is veiy far 
from intelligible ; and besides this, the circumstance 
of preaching generally leaves on the mind of cursory 
readers the notion of a church. To describe this house, 
which is not many miles distant from the Troad, and 
perhaps, from the unchanging character pf Oriental 
customs, nearly resembles the houses then built, will 
fully illustrate the narrative. On entering my host’s 


door, we find the ground floor entirely used as a store ; 
it is filled with large barrels of oil, the produce of tho 
rich country for many miles round ; this space, so far 
from being habitable, is sometimes so dirty with the 
dripping of the oil that it is difficult to pick out a clean 
footing from the door to the first step of the staircase. 
On ascending, w T e find the first floor, consisting of a 
humble suite of rooms, not very high ; these are occu- 
pied by the family for their daily use. It is on the 
next story that all their expense is lavished; here my 
courteous host has appointed my lodging; beautiful 
curtains, and mats, and cushions to the divan, display 
the respect with which they mean to receive their 
guest; here, likewise, their splendor, being at the top 
of the house, is enjoyed by the poor Greeks with more 
retirement and less chance of molestation from the in- 
trusion of the Turks; here, when the professors of tho 
college waited upon me to pay their respects, they were 
received in ceremony and sat at the window. The 
room is both higher and also larger than those below'; 
it has tw r o projecting windows; and the whole floor is 
so much extended in front beyond the lower part of 
the building, that the projecting windows considerably 
overhang the street. In such an upper room — seclud- 
ed, spacious, commodious — Paul w r as invited to preach 
his parting discourse. The divan, or raised seat, with 
mats or cushions, encircles the interior of each project- 
ing window ; and 1 have remarked, that when the com- 
j pany is numerous, they sometimes place large cushions 
behind the company seated on the divan, so that a 
second tier of company, with their feet upon the seat 
of the divan, are sitting behind, higher than the front 
j row. Entyelius, thus sitting, would be on a level with 
the open window, and, being overcome with sleep, he 
would easily fall out from the third loft of the house 
into the street, and be almost certain, from such a 
height, to lose his life. Thither Paul W'ent down, and 
comforted the alarmed company by bringing up Euty- 
1 clius alive. It is noted that there were many lights 
in the upper chamber. The very great plenty of oil 
in this neighborhood would enable them to afford many 
lamps ; the heat of these and so much company would 
cause the drowsiness of Eutvchns at that late hour, 
and be the occasion likewise of the window's being 
open.” See House. 

Evagrius Ponticus (Euaypioc), monk and as- 
cetic writer, was born at Iberis, on the Black Sea, 
about A.D. 345. He was made deacon by Gregory of 
Nyssa or Gregory of JSTazianzuiu, and received his the- 
ological culture to some extent under the latter, wiio 
took him to Constantinople in 379 or 380, and made 
him archdeacon. In the Origenistic controversies he 
took the side of Origen. After some experience of the 
dangers of personal beauty and vanity, he renounced 
the world, assumed the monastic garb, and departed 
for Egypt in 383 or 384, where he lived as an ascetic 
up to the day of his deatli in (probably) 399. Socra- 
; tes speaks very highly (//. E. iv, 23) of his character 
I and writings, of which there remain, 1. Morayoc (in 
! Cotelerius, Mon. Grac. iii, 68) : — 2. *AvTippg~iKog (in 
Pal lad. Yita Chrysost. p. 349) : — 3. Rerum Monachalium 
r at tones ; and a few’ other tracts, collected in Galland. 

I Bihl. Patrol, vii, 553; also in Migne, Patrol. Grac. xl, 
1219 sq. See Tillcmont, Me moires, x, 368 ; Socrates, 
Hist. Eccl. iii, 7 ; iv, 23; Sozomen, Hist. Eccl. vi, 30; 
Cave, Hist. Lit. Anno 380. 

Evagrius Scliolasticus, the Church historian, 
was probably born at Epiphaneia, on the Orontes, in 
or about A.D. 536, and had a good education. He 
lived in Antioch, where he w r as a lawyer (scliolasticus'), 
whence his surname. lie rendered essential service 
to the patriarch Gregory, whom he defended (against 
charges of adultery and incest) at a synod in Constan- 
tinople, A.D. 589. lie was made quastorian , as a re- 
ward for his professional skill, by the emperor Tiberi- 
us. Evagrius wrote An Ecclesiastical History , in con- 


EVANGELIARIILtf .367 EVANGELICAL ALLIANCE 


tinuation of Eusebius and Thcodoret, which extends 
from the Council of Ephesus, A.D. 431, to the twelfth 
year of the reign of the emperor Maurice, A.D. 593-4. 
He is credulous and superstitious, blit orthodox. The 
best edition, Gr. and Lat., is that of Valesius (Henri de 
Valois), which includes Eusebius and the other early 
Greek ecclesiastical historians (Par. 1G59-73, fob ; re- 
printed, with some additional “variorum” notes, under 
the title Eccl. Scriptores cum not Is Valesii et Reading , 
Cantab. 1720, 3 vols.) ; also in Mignc, Patrol . Grceca , 
vol. lxxxix ; translated into English, A History of the 
Church , with an account of the Author and his Writings, 
trails, by Meredith Hanmer, in Bagster’s Eccl. Histori- 
ans (Lond. G vols. 8vo) ; and in Bohn’s Eccles. Library 
(Loud. 1851, 12mo) ; into German by Bossier, in his 
Bill. d. Kirchenvdter , vol. vii (1775, 8vo).— Fabricius, 
Bibliotheca Grceca, ed. Ilarles, ix, 284 sq. ; Hoffmann, 
Bibliog. Lexicon, ii, 37 ; Sc half, History of the Christian 
Church , iii, 882. 

Evangeliarium. See Evangelistary. 

Evangelical, appertaining to , or characteristic of 
the Gospel. (1.) The term “has been applied to a por- 
tion of the English Church who either profess, or are 
supposed to ‘ know and inculcate the Gospel ’ in an es- 
pecial manner, and to give peculiar prominence to the 
doctrine of salvation by faith in the atonement. It is 
probably true that among this portion of the Church 
of England many, but not all, maintain the peculiar 
doctrines of Calvinism; and there may have been a 
time when (in the opinion of some) lower views of the 
sacraments and of Church authority prevailed among 
them than what are generally received among other 
members of that Church. Very many persons lament 
the use of this term, and consider that, like all party 
appellations, it tends to perpetuate division in the 
Church ; accordingly, they desire that it should be dis- 
used as a party term, and carefully confined to its orig- 
inal meaning” (Eden). 

(2.) In Prussia, the United Established Church 
(since 1817) has been called the “ Evangelical Church.” 
See Prussia and United Evangelical Church. 

(3.) In England and America the term “ evangeli- 
cal” is frequently used to distinguish those churches 
which believe in the divinity of Christ and the atone- 
ment from those that do not. 

Evangelical Alliance is the name of an associ- 
ation of Christians belonging to the denominations 
collectively called Evangelical, and having for its ob- 
ject to represent the unity of these churches in all the 
more important articles of faith, notwithstanding their 
separation by external organization. The Alliance 
originated in Great Britain, and the rupture in the 
Presbyterian Church of Scotland seems to have great- 
ly contributed to its establishment. On Aug. 5, 1845, 
a number of persons belonging to different denomina- 
tions drew up a proposal of closer union. The advan- 
tages promised by such a movement were at once ap- 
preciated in England, and an assembly was convoked 
at Liverpool Oct. 1, 1845, which was in session three 
days, and at which were present 21G persons, repre- 
senting 20 different religious societies. The first Gen- 
eral Assembly of the Evangelical Alliance was held in 
Freemasons’ Hall, Great Queen Street, London, and 
lasted from Aug. 19 to Sept. 2, 1846 ; 921 Christians 
from all parts of the world took part in its 2G sessions ; 
among them were 47 from the European continent, and 
87 from America and other parts. Among them we 
find the names of Dr. Barth, of Calw, in Wurtemberg ; 
Dr. Baird, of New York; Bev. Dr. Bonnet, of Frank- 
fort on the Maine (editor of the letters of Calvin) ; 
I)r. Buchanan, of Glasgow; Dr. Cunningham, of Edin- 
burgh ; William Jones, president of the Tract Soci- 
ety; Dr. Marriott, of Basel; the missionary Mogling, 
of Mangalur ; the missionary inspector (subsequently 
superintendent general), Dr. Hoffmann ; Bev. Adolphe 
Monod (then in Montauban) ; Bev. Dr. Oncken, of 


Hamburg ; Bev. Dr. Panchaud, of Brussels ; Bev. Bap. 
tist Noel, of London ; and Dr. Tholuck, of Halle. 
Some fifty different denominations were represented, 
some of which, however, as the reformed churches 
of France and Geneva, and the Lutheran churches 
of North America and Wiirtemberg, differed only on 
local points. Some colored preachers also took part 
in the proceedings. Sir Culling Eardley (q. v.) was 
chosen as chairman, and remained the head of the 
Alliance until his death. The platform was clearly 
and unanimously defined : the Evangelical Alliance is 
not to be a union of the different denominations, nei- 
ther is it its aim to bring about such as its result ; its 
object is only to promote Christian feelings, loving, 
friendly intercourse between the different denomina- 
tions, and an effective co-operation in the efforts to 
repulse the common enemies and dangers. As the 
means of effecting this purpose, it advocates, not a sort 
of official or semi-official representative assembly of 
the different denominations, but rather the union of 
individuals. It is to be a Christian union, not a 
Church union ; one in which a number of earnest, 
faithful Christians of the different denominations may 
join. Being a union of Christians, not of churches, 
the doors of the Evangelical Alliance are open to all 
who admit the fundamental principles of Christianity, 
without inquiring into the minutiae of their particular 
confessions. It only asks its members to accept 
(whether because or in spite of their particular confes- 
sion does not matter) the fundamental principles and 
doctrines of the Gospel. This naturally led to a defi- 
nition of these fundamental principles, the admission 
of which should be considered the basis of the Alli- 
ance. On the motion being made by Dr. Edward 
Bickersteth, the following nine articles were, after ma- 
ture deliberation, received as the fundamental princi- 
ples of the Evangelical Alliance : 

“The parties composing the Alliance shall be such 
parties only as hold and maintain what are usually un- 
derstood to be evangelical views in regard to the matter 
of doctrines understated, namely: 1. The divine inspi- 
ration, authority, and sufficiency of the Holy Scriptures. 
2. The right and duty of private judgment in the inter- 
pretation of the Iloly Scriptures. 3. The unity of the 
Godhead, and the trinity of persons therein. 4. The 
utter depravity of human nature in consequence of the 
Fall. 5. The incarnation of the Son of God, his work of 
atonement for sinners and mankind, and his mediatorial 
intercession and reign. G. The justification of the sin- 
ners by faith alone. 7. The work of the Holy Spirit 
in the conversion and sanctification of the sinner. 8. 
The immortality of the soul, the resurrection of the 
body, the judgment of the world by our Lord Jesus 
Christ, with the eternal blessedness of the righteous, 
and the eternal punishment of the wicked. 9. The 
divine institution of the Christian ministry, and the 
obligation and perpetuity of the ordinances of Baptism 
and the Lord’s Supper.” 

These principles were embodied in a document enti- 
tled Societatis Evangelical constitutionis et statutorum ex- 
positio brevis. The members bind themselves to pray 
zealously for the Holy Spirit to descend upon all believ- 
ers, and to employ jointly the morning of the first week- 
day as a season of prayer, as also the first week of each 
I year; as also to use Christian circumspection in their 
; speech and writings when touching on points of differ- 
ence. The Alliance was organized on the 2d of Sept em- 
ber. They organized a series of seven branch associa- 
tions : 1. Great Britain and Ireland; 2. United States 
of North America ; 3. France, Belgium, and the French 
portion of Switzerland; 4. Northern Germany; 5. 
South German)’-, and the German portion of Switzer- 
land ; G. British North America ; 7. West Indies. These 
branch associations went into actual operation after- 
wards. The Alliance spread in France, Switzerland, 
and Belgium, without agreement with its definition of 
the evangelical creed being insisted on. It met with 


EVANGELICAL ALLIANCE 3G8 EVANGELICAL ASSOCIATION 


much opposition in German}'- from the Lutherans, who 
did not liml the creed sufficiently explicit on certain 
points, and from the disciples of Sehleiermacher, who 
disapproved of some of the articles. A second assembly 
was held in Paris in 1855 on the occasion of the World’s 
Exhibition. The third meeting was held in Berlin in 
1857. The (“Confessional”) Lutherans became more 
determined in their opposition, while the evangelical 
party of Germany, though approving of the general 
scope of the Alliance, deemed it inexpedient to insist 
on the acceptance of the nine principles as a condition 
of membership. This meeting was largely attended, 
delegates from Macao, Africa, and Australia being 
present, and brought the Alliance more prominently 
before the churches of Continental Europe. The fourth 
meeting was held at Geneva in 18G0. It was successful, 
notwithstanding the declension of the Genevan Na- 
tional Church to sympathize with its objects. Dr. 
Guthrie, of Scotland ; Dr. Baird, of the United States ; 
Monod, Pressense, and Gasparin, of France; Krumma- 
cber and Dorner, of Germany ; Groen van Prinsterer, 
of Holland ; and Merle d’Aubigne, of Switzerland, 
were among the most prominent and active members. 
The fifth meeting was to have been held at Amster- 
dam in 1866, but was postponed on account of the 
prevalence of the cholera at the appointed time till 
18G7. The fifth General Conference actually took place 
at Amsterdam on Aug. 18, 18G7, and was largely at- 
tended. There were delegates from France, Germa- 
ny, Switzerland, Holland, Great Britain, the United 
States, the British American provinces, Italy, Spain, 
Sweden, and Eastern countries. Baron Van Wassc- 
naar Catwijk presided. Among the more prominent 
delegates were Dr. Krummacher, Prof. Herzog, Dr. 
Tholuck, and Prof. Lange, of Germany; Pasteur Ber- 
sier, Dr. de Pressense, and Prof. St. Hilaire, of France ; 
Dr. Guthrie, of Scotland ; John Pve Smith, archdea- 
con Philpot, and S. Gurney, M.P., of England; Merle 
d’Aubigne, of Switzerland; the Lev. Dr. Prime, of the 
United States, and many others. The opening sermon 
was preached by Prof. Van Oosterzee. Among the 
subjects discussed were the religious condition of the 
Church of England, the Scottish churches, the connec- 
tion of missions with civilization, Christianity, and 
literature, and art and science ; the methods of oper- 
ating missions; the religious condition of Germany, 
France, Holland, Belgium, and Italy; evangelical non- 
conformity; Christianity and the nationalities; and 
various subjects of theology and philosophy. Inter- 
esting reports were received of the progress of relig- 
ious liberty in Turkey, and of the thraldom of opinion 
in Spain. The observance of the Sabbath received 
especial consideration, resulting in the adoption of a 
resolution calling upon the members of the Alliance to 
use in their several places of abode and spheres of in- 
fluence earnest endeavors to secure from states, mu- 
nicipalities, and masters of establishments, from every 
one, the weekly day of rest from labor, “ in order that 
all may freely and fully participate in the temporal 
and spiritual benefits of the Lord’s day.” A letter of 
affection and sympathy was adopted to Christians scat- 
tered abroad, particularly to those who are laboring 
against the hostile influences of heathenism or of su- 
perstition, and whose rights of public worship are re- 
strained or abridged. A protest against war was adopt- 
ed. Special meetings were held on Sunday-schools 
and systematic benevolence. A series of meetings for 
the poor were hold in one of the mission-rooms of the 
city with wholesome effect, and two temperance meet- 
ings. The assembly adjourned on Tuesday, Aug. 27. 

The Evangelical Alliance of the United States was 
organized in New York city on Jan. 30, 18G7. Eini- 
nent divines and laymen of the Methodist Episcopal, 
Presbyterian, Protestant Episcopal, German Re'formcd, 
Reformed, and Baptist churches, and from various parts 
of the country, signified their approval of the move- 
ment either by attendance in person or by letter. A 


letter of co-operation was read from the secretary of the 
British branch of the Alliance. The lion. William E. 
Dodge was elected president of the American branch. 
At a meeting held in New York Nov. 12, 1868, it was 
resolved to convene a new General Conference of the 
Evangelical Alliance in the city of New York in the 
autumn of 18G9. The British branch only of the na- 
tional branches has been in the practice of holding 
annual meetings. 

“Among the results already attained by the Alli- 
ance as incidental and secondary to its great object 
may be mentioned, The supply of an obvious want, 
namely, the existence of an organized body with and 
by whom correspondence and co-opcration may be eas- 
ily and effectually carried on between Christians in 
different parts of the world, and which may greatly 
aid in uniting Christians in this country separated by 
ecclesiastical differences and other causes; the hold- 
ing of conferences of Christians from all parts of the 
world, for devotion and mutual consultation, in Lon- 
don, Paris, Berlin, and other cities ; aiding in the re- 
vival of religion both at home and abroad ; the con- 
vening of very many meetings for united prayer for 
the outpouring of the Spirit, and in reference to pass- 
ing events of importance ; the communication of much 
information as to the religious condition of Christen- 
dom ; the encouragement of Christians exposed to tri- 
als and difficulties by the expression of sympathy, and 
in several instances by eliciting pecuniary aid ; suc- 
cessful interference on behalf of Christians and others 
when persecuted in Roman Catholic and Mohammedan 
countries ; the mitigation or removal of the persecu- 
tion of Protestants bv their fellow-Protestants in Ger- 
many and elsewhere; the presentation of memorials 
to the sovereigns of Europe, including the sultan him- 
self, on behalf of liberty of conscience for Mussulmen ; 
the encouragement and assistance of the friends of 
pure evangelical doctrine in all Protestant countries 
in their struggle with Rationalism or infidelity ; the 
uniting of evangelical Christians in different countries 
for fraternal intercourse and for mutual protection ; 
opposition, in common with other bodies, to the prog- 
ress of popery; the resistance of projects which would 
tend to the desecration of the Lord’s day; the origina- 
tion and extensive circulation of prize essays on the 
Sabbath, and on Popery and infidelity; and the orig- 
ination of societies established on the principle of 
united action among evangelical Christians, such as 
the Turkish Missions Aid Society, the Continental 
Committee for Religious Liberty, Christian Vernacu- 
lar Education Society for India, and German Aid So- 
ciety. Although these practical results are thus re- 
ferred to, yet it is to be understood that, even if no 
such secondary objects had been accomplished or at- 
tempted, the great value of the Alliance would still 
remain in its adaptation to promote and manifest union 
among Christians. The preceding is from an author- 
itative statement made by the Alliance” (Eadie, Ec- 
clesiastical Encyclopaedia, s. \\). — Herzog, Reaf-Encg- 
klojmdie , p. 270 ; Sebem, .1 mericcin Ecclesiastical A L 
manac for 18G8 ; the full reports of the General As- 
semblies of the Alliance; Dr. Massie, The Evangelical 
Alliance , its Origin and Development (Lond. John Snow, 
1847) ; L. Bonnet, L'unite de Vesprit par le lieu de la 
pair ; Lettres sur V alliance evangeliqne (Paris, Delay, 
1847) ; A m. and For. Ch. Union , Sept. 185G, p. 269 ; Dec. 
1S5G, p. 3G7 ; Princeton Rev. Oct. 1846. (A. J. S.) 

Evangelical Association, an ecclesiastical body 
which took its rise in the year 3800, in the eastern part 
of Pennsylvania, and resulted from an organization 
into classes and congregations of the disciples of Rev. 
Jacob Albright, a native of Eastern Pennsylvania, 
who, being impressed by the general decline of relig- 
ious life, and the - corruption of doctrines and morals 
that prevailed in the German churches in that portion 
of country, undertook, about 1790, to work a reform 
among them. The effect of his first labors encouraged 


EVANGELICAL ASSOCIATION 369 EVANG. CHURCH CONFERENCE 


him to travel through a great part of the country at 
his own expense, preaching the Gospel as he had op- 
portunity in churches, schools, private houses, on pub- 
lic roads, etc. Although he commenced his labors 
without any ulterior design of forming a distinct ec- 
clesiastical organization, yet he soon found it neces- 
sary to unite his converts, scattered over several 
counties, into small societies for mutual support and 
sympathy. At a meeting called for the purpose of 
consulting upon the best measures to be adopted for 
the furtherance of a cause in which they all felt a deep 
interest, the assembly, without regard to the teach- 
ings of High-Churchism respecting a valid ministry, 
unanimously elected and ordained Mr. Albright as 
their pastor or bishop, authorizing him to exercise all 
the functions of the ministerial office over them, and 
declared the Bible to be their rule of faith and prac- 
tice. This organization, incomplete at first, was soon 
after considerably improved by the adoption of a creed 
and rules for Church government. In course of time, 
as laborers increased and the society spread, annual 
conferences were held ; and in 181G, sixteen years 
after the first organization of the Church, a general 
conference was held, for the first time, in Union Coun- 
ty, Pa., which consisted of all the elders in the minis- 
try. Since 1843 a general conference, composed of 
delegates elected by the annual conferences from 
among their elders, has held quadrennial sessions. 
For the first thirty years of its existence the society 
struggled against violent opposition ; but for the last 
thirty-eight years it has made rapid progress, so that 
it now (1868) comprises 14 annual conferences, and 486 
itinerant and 379 local preachers, whose field of labor 
extends over the Northern, "Western, and Pacific states, 
and into Canada and Europe. The membership ap- 
proximates 65,000, all adults ; the number of church- 
es is 791 and parsonages 207, valued together at 
$1,600,000; Sunday-schools 834, and scholars 45,000; 
catechetical classes, exclusive of those connected with 
Sunday-schools, 341, with 3559 catechumens. In the 
year 1838 a missionary society was formed, which has 
up to this time supported about 600 home missions, 
most of which are now self-supporting stations, cir- 
cuits, or even conferences. At present this society 
supports 153 missions in America and Europe. For a 
number of years it has been gathering funds for hea- 
then missions, and is expected to enter upon that field 
ere long. There is also a Sunday-school and tract 
society in operation, publishing Sunday-school books 
and religious tracts. A charitable society was found- 
ed in the year 1835, which has received funds amount- 
ing to a considerable sum, by bequests, the interest of 
which is annually applied to the support of the wid- 
ows and orphans of poor itinerant preachers. There 
are also church-building societies established in sev- 
eral conferences. The North-western College, a flour- 
ishing institution of learning located at Plainfield, 111., 
has been founded, and is supported by the Western 
conferences of the Church, and an endowment is being 
collected which now amounts to $65,000. Several 
seminaries are also patronized by the Church. An 
orphan institution, favorably located at Flat Rock, 
Ohio, has been founded within a few years, and is in 
•successful operation. A prosperous publishing-house 
at Cleveland, Ohio, issues four periodicals: one, its 
German organ, Der Christliche Botsch after, a large 
weekly, and the oldest German religious paper pub- 
lished in America; another, its English organ, The 
Evangelical ]\fessenger, also a weekly ; and the third 
and fourth, Der Christliche Kinderfreund , and the Sun- 
day-school Messenger , are monthly juvenile papers, in- 
tended chiefly for Sunday-schools. The weekly pa- 
pers have together a circulation of 25,000, and the ju- 
veniles 30,000. Perhaps no other religious denomina- 
tion in America is better organized and disciplined for 
work than the Evangelical Association. In doctrine 
and theology this Church is Arminian; with regard 
III. — A A 


to sanctification, Wesleyan ; but generally holds the 
essential doctrines of the Gospel as they are held in 
common by the evangelical churches of the land, with 
all of whom it aims to cultivate a fraternal spirit. 
The ministry is divided into two orders, deacons and 
elders ; and, faithful to the principles and examples 
of their founder, they practise itinerancy. The high- 
est permanent order is the eldership; for, although 
the society has its bishops (elected by General Confer- 
ence) and presiding elders (elected by the individual 
conferences), yet these, to be continued, must be re- 
elected every four years; and if not re-elected they 
hold no higher rank or privilege than an elder. The 
General Conference meets ever}’- four years, and con- 
stitutes the highest legislative and judicial authority 
recognised in the Church ; then come the annual and 
quarterly conferences, whose transactions are mostly 
of an executive and practical nature for the promotion 
of the work. In its mode of worship and usages the 
Evangelical Association is Methodistic; and for this 
reason, as well as the fact that Mr. Albright was a 
member of the Methodist Episcopal Church until he 
commenced his labors among the Germans of Pennsyl- 
vania, it is sometimes, though erroneously, called the 
German Methodist Church. For a number of years 
after its rise the Evangelical Association labored al- 
most exclusively in the German language; but the 
rising generation, and the success of some preachers 
who labored also in the English language, have, dur- 
ing the last fifteen years, demanded considerable at- 
tention to the English, and the Church is now ener- 
getically engaged in both languages to accomplish her 
mission, to which she believes herself to be* providen- 
tially called — to save souls, and bring glory to God in 
the highest. (R. Y.) 

The following table, taken from the Almanac of the. 
Evangelical Association for 1869, gives the names of 
the annual conferences, the year of the organization of 
each, the number of itinerant preachers, local preach- 
ers, Church members, probationers, Sunday-schools, 
and Sunday-school scholars : 


Conferences. 

When 

organized. 

Itinerant 
preachers. | 

J: 

o % 

J £ 

Church 

members. 

Proba- 

tioners. 

Sunday- 1 
schools. | 

S.-school 

scholars. 

Churches, j 

East Pennsylvania. 

1S39 

77 

so 

9,S54 

757 

115 

8,077 

13S 

(Jen. Pennsylvania. 

1S39 

52 

43 

G,91S 

590 

78 

4,957 

94 

Ohio 

1839 

43 

59 

G, 079 

14S 

S3 

4.420 

104 

Illinois 


54 

59 

6,538 

305 

89 

4,757 

74 

New York 

1847 

27 

G 

3,041 

91 

45 

2.177 

49 

Pittsburg 

1851 

35 

2S 

5,223 

183 

70 

4,200 

79 

Indiana 

1851 

45 

29 

4,G72 

119 

85 

3,971 

75 

Wisconsin 

1855 

41 

20 ; 

G,372 

34 

107 

3,414 

G9 

Iowa 

1859 

25 

11 

2,553 

1 134 

38 

1,775 

19 

Canada 

IS 03 

20 

11 

2,95 G 

15 

52 

2,269 

52 

Michigan 

1.8G3 

23 

23 

2,144 

85 

27 

9S2 

21 

Kansas 

1SG3 

12 


607 


13 

2,145 

4 

Germany 

1863 

19 


3,701 


27 

1,006 

4 

Minnesota 

1SG7 

IS 

G 

1,53G 

3 

32 


13 

California & Oregon 




150 


2 

120 

3 

Total 


500 

377 

02,344 

2470 S03 

45,175 

79S 


Evangelical Church Conference, the name of 
periodical meetings of delegates of the Protestant state 
churches of Germany. The object of these meetings is 
to have a free exchange of opinion on important ques- 
tions of ecclesiastical life, to furnish a bond of union for 
the several Protestant state churches of Germany, and 
to advance their harmonious development. The im- 
pulse to meetings of this kind proceeded, in 1815, from 
king Wilhelm of Wurtemberg. Invitations to a confer- 
ence were issued conjointly by Prussia and Wurtemberg 
to the governments of South Germany, and by Prussia 
and llanover to the governments of Northern Ger- 
many. At the first conference, which met at Berlin 
in 1846, the Church boards of all the German states 
except Austria, Bavaria, Oldenburg, and the Free 
Cities were represented. This meeting v'as secret, 
and the proceedings have never been officially pub- 
lished. It is known, however, that they concerned 


EVANGELICAL COUNSELS 370 


EVANGELIST 


the periodical holding of conferences of this kind, con- 
fessions, liturgy, and Church constitution. The second 
meeting was to have been held at Stuttgardt in 1848, 
but did not take place, in consequence of the disturb- 
ances caused by the revolution. At the Church diets 
(q. v.) of Stuttgardt (1850) and Elberfeld (1851)., eccle- 
siastical officers of several countries deliberated on the 
resumption of the official Church conferences, and sug- 
gested the establishment of a central organ, which was 
to contain the decrees of all the supreme Church boards 
of the German States. Accordingly, the conference met 
again at Eisenach in June, 1852, and in the same year 
an official central organ of the German Church govern- 
ments was established at Stuttgardt (Allgem. Kirchen- 
blattfdr das evangel. Deutschland). Since then the con- 
ference lias met always at Eisenach, in 1855, 1857, 1859, 
1861, 1863, 1865, and 1868. One of the first results of 
the conferences was a compilation of 150 of the best 
German Protestant hymns (Kernlieder), which was rec- 
ommended to the several states as a proper basis of, or 
appendix to, the hymn-books of the several churches. 
In 1855 some resolutions concerning the treatment of 
sects by the state churches were unanimously adopted. 
These resolutions declared against the principle of full 
religious liberty, but recommended that the members 
of sects be allowed to contract valid civil marriages. 
The same conference adopted resolutions in behalf of 
a better observance of Sunday; of giving to congre- 
gations the right of co-operation ( votum rugatiuum ) in 
the appointment of ecclesiastical officers, and of intro- 
ducing special liturgical devotions during the week of 
Passion. The conference of 1857 held important dis- 
cussions on the revival of Church discipline, on re- 
forms in the legislation concerning divorces, and on 
Christian burial. Among the results of the later meet- ( 
ings of the conference were the following : The intro- 
duction of a prayer for the German fatherland, to be I 
used every Sunday in every Protestant church ; reso- 
lutions on Church patronage, on liturgical matters, on 
the examinations of theological students, on catechiza- 
tion, on the revision of the Lutheran Bible, on the 
hest way of collecting the statistics of the German 
Lutheran Church, on the construction of evangelical 
churches, on the State-Church system, etc. An ac- 
count of each meeting of the conference since 1855 is 
given in Matthes, Allgem. Kirchliche Chronik; see also 
Herzog, ReaUEneykl. iv, 273. 

Evangelical Counsels. See Coxsilia Ev An- 
gelica. 

Evangelical Union, “the name assumed by a 
religious body constituted in Scotland in 1843 by the 
Lev. James Morison, of Kilmarnock, and other minis- 
ters, whose doctrinal views had been condemned in the 
United Secession Church, to which they previously be- 
longed, and the congregations adhering to them. They 
were soon afterwards joined by a number of ministers 
and congregations of similar views previously connect- 
ed with the Congregational Union or Independents of ' 
Scotland, and have since extended themselves consid- 
erably in Scotland and the north of England, Their 
doctrinal views are those which, from the name of Mr. 
Morison, have now become known in Scotland as J/or- 
isonian. See Mouisonianism. Their church govern- 1 
ment is Independent, but in some of the congregations 
originally Presbyterian the office of the eldership is 
retained. A notable practice of this denomination is 
the very frequent advertising of sermons and their 
subjects” (Chambers, Cgc'op. s. y.). In 1851 the Union 
had in Scotland 28 places of worship, with 10,319 sit- 
tings. 

Evangelist (a'«yy£\icrn;c)> the name of an order 
or body of men included in the constitution of the 
Apostolical Church (q. v.). The term is applied in the i 
New Testament to a certainjclass of Christian teachers [ 
who were not fixed to any particular spot, but trav- 
elled either independently, or under the direction of j 


one or other of the apostles, for the purpose of propa. 
gating the Gospel. The absence of any detailed ac- 
count of the organization and practical working of the 
Church of the lirst century leaves us in some uncer- 
tainty as to their functions and position. The mean- 
ing of the name, “The publishers of glad tidings,” 
seems common to the work of the Christian ministry 
generally, yet in Eph. iv, 11 the “evangelists” appear, 
on the one hand, after the “apostles” and “prophets;” 
on the other, before the “pastors” and “teachers” 
(thus: ciVTUQ tdioKt tovq n'iv aTToardXovGi tovq ve 
irpotytiraQ, tovq £e EvayyEXiaTcic, tovq Ct tto ipkvciQ 
Kcti didcMTKaXovQ). Assuming that the apostles here, 
whether limited to the twelve or not, are those who 
were looked upon as the special delegates and repre- 
sentatives of Christ, and therefore higher than all oth- 
ers in their authority, and that the prophets were men 
speaking under the immediate impulse of the Spirit 
words that were mighty in their effects on men’s 
hearts and consciences, it would follow that the evan- 
gelists had a function subordinate to theirs, yet more 
conspicuous, and so far higher than that of the pastors 
who watched over a church that had been founded, 
and of the teachers who carried on the work of syste- 
matic instruction. This passage, accordingly, would 
lead us to think of them as standing between the two 
other groups — sent forth as missionary preachers of the 
Gospel by the first, and as such preparing the way for 
the labors of the second. The same inference would 
seem to follow the occurrence of the word as applied 
to Philip in Acts xxi, 8. He had been one of those 
who had gone everywhere “preaching” (eimyyeXt^o- 
f ievoi ) the word (Acts viii, 4), now in one city, now in 
another (viii, 40); but he has not the power or author- 
ity of an apostle, does not speak as a prophet himself, 
though the gift of prophecy belongs to his four daughters 
(xxi, 9), and he exercises apparently no pastoral super- 
intendence over any portion of the flock. The omission 
of evangelists in the list of 1 Cor. xii may be explain- 
ed on the hypothesis that the nature of Paul’s argu- 
ment led him there to speak of the settled organization 
of a given local Church, which of course presupposed 
the work of the missionary preacher as already ac- 
complished, while the train of thought in Eph. iv, 11 
brought before his mind all who were in any way in- 
strumental in building up the Church universal. It 
follows, from what has been said, that the calling of 
the evangelist is expressed by the word Ki)pvaaEiv 1 
“preach,” rather than vidavKtiv, “teach,” or 7 rapa- 
fcaXEiv, “exhort;” it is the proclamation of the glad 
tidings to those who have not known them, rather than 
the instruction and pastoral care of those who have be- 
lieved and been baptized. This is also what we gath- 
er from 2 Tim. iv, 2, 5. Timothetis is “to preach the 
word;” in doing this he is to fulfil “the work of an 
evangelist.” It follows, also, that the name denotes a 
uorlc rather than an order. The evangelist might or 
might not be a bishop-elder or a deacon. The apos- 
tles, so far as they evangelized (Acts viii, 25; xiv, 7 ; 
1 Cor. i, 17), might claim the title, though there were 
many evangelists who were not apostles. The broth- 
er “whose praise was in the Gospel” (2 Cor. viii, 18) 
may be looked upon as one of Paul's companions in this 
work, and probably known hv the same name. In 
short, the itinerant and temporary character of their 
calling chiefly serves to distinguish them from the oth- 
er classes of Christian laborers. In this, as in other 
points connected with the organization of the Church 
in the apostolic age, but little information is to be 
gained from later writers. The name was no longer 
explained by the presence of those to whom it had been 
specially applied, and it came to he variously inter- 
preted. Theodoret (on Eph. iv, 11) describes the evan- 
gelists (as they have been described above) as travel- 
ling missionaries. Chrysostom, as men who preached 
the Gospel, hut without going everywhere (jn) TTEpilov - 
teq 7iavra\ov) ; by which he probably denotes a re- 


EVANGELISTARIUM 


371 


EVANS 


stricted sphere to their labors, in contrast with the 
world-wide commission of the apostles. The account 
given by Eusebius {Hist. Eccles . iii, 37), though some- 
what rhetorical and vague, gives prominence to the 
idea of itinerant missionary preaching. Referring to 
the state of the Church in the time of Trajan, he says, 
“ Many of the disciples of that time, whose souls the 
divine word had inspired with an ardent love of phi- 
losophy, first fulfilled our Saviour’s precept by distrib- 
uting their substance among the poor. Then travel- 
ling abroad, they performed the work of evangelists 
( ipyou tTTtrs Aoer Eo«yytA<rmuj'), being ambitious to 
preach Christ, and deliver the Scripture of the divine 
Gospels. Having laid the foundations of the faith in 
foreign nations, they appointed other pastors ( foipivciQ 
rt KnOuTTavreg iHpovc), to whom they intrusted the 
cultivation of the parts they had recently occupied, 
while they proceeded to other countries and nations.” 
One clause of this description indicates a change in 
the work, which before long affected the meaning of 
the name. If the Gospel was a written book, and the 
office of the evangelists was to read or distribute it, 
then the writers of such books were kcit tif oyi/rTiiE 
evangelists. It is thus, accordingly, that Eusebius 
{Ilist. Eccles. iii, 39) speaks of them, though the old 
meaning of the word (as in Hist. Eccl. v, 10, where he 
applies it to Pantamus) is not forgotten by him. Soon 
this meaning so overshadowed the old that CEcumcni- 
ns (Estins on Eph. iv, 11) has no other notion of the 
evangelists than as those who have written a Gospel 
(compare Harless on Eph. iv, 11). Augustine, though 
commonly using the word in this sense, at times re- 
members its earlier signification {Sermon xeix and 
cclxvi). Ambrosianus (Estius, l. c.) identifies them 
with deacons. In later liturgical language the W’ork 
was applied to the reader of the Gospel for the day 
(comp. Hooker, Ecclesiastical Polity , bk. lxxviii, 7, 9). 
In modern phraseology the term is almost exclusively 
applied to the writers of the canonical Gospels (q. v.). 
See Cam pbell’sZf ctures on Ecclesiastical History , i, 148- 
150 ; Neander’ s Histoj'y of the Planting of the Christian 
Church , i, 173 ; Middelboc,Zte evangelist is ecclesiee apos- 
tolica (Hafn. 1779); Schaff, Apostolical Church , § 131. 
— Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Evangelistarium {Booh of the Gospels ), the name 
given in the earlier ages to a volume containing 
the portions appointed to be read from the Gospels. 
If the four Gospels complete w r ere contained in the 
book, it was called Evangelistarium PlcnaHum. — Proc- 
ter, Common Prayer , p. 9 ; Siegel, Altertliumer , iii, 249. 
See Manuscripts of the Bidle. 

Evangelium Sternum {Everlasting Gospel), the 
name given to a book published in the 13th century 
(A.D. 1254), w hich w r as properly entitled Introducio- 
rins in Erangelium ate mum, probably written by the 
Franciscan Gerbardus. The idea of a new' “ everlast- 
ing Gospel” w’as one of the peculiar notions of Joa- 
chim of Floris (f 1202), who attacked the corruptions of 
the Church, and predicted an approaching renovation. 
See Joachim of Floris. These predictions were ap- 
propriated by the Franciscans as really referring to 
the rise and character of their order, winch w'as found- 
ed by Francis of Assisi six years after Joachim’s death. 
An apocalyptic party arose .among the Franciscans, 
which seems to have been led by Gerbardus, and by 
Johannes of Parma (q. v.). The Introductorius in 
Erangelium aternum seems to have been chiefly made 
up from three of the w ritings of Joachim, viz. Concor- 
dia Veter, et Nov. Test.; Psalt. decern Chorda rum ; and 
Apocedypsis nova. It set forth Joachim’s doctrine of 
the “ dispensations” ( status ) of the Church, the last of 
W'hich, the dispensation of the Spirit, w'as to be opened 
about A. IX 1200. The movement w r as a new* form of 
Montanism. ‘‘Many vague notions were entertained 
about the Eternal Gospel of the Franciscans, arising 
from superficial view's, or a superficial understanding 


! of Joachim’s waitings, and the offspring of mere rumot 
of the heresy-hunting spirit. Men spoke of the Eter- 
nal Gospel as of a book composed under this title, and 
circulated among the Franciscans. Occasionally, also, 
this Eternal Gospel was confounded perhaps with the 
: above-mentioned Introductcrius. In reality, there was 
no book existing under this title of the Eternal Gos- 
! pel, but all that is said about it relates simply to the 
writings of Joachim. The opponents of the Francis- 
can order objected to the preachers of the Eternal Gos- 
pel, that, according to their teaching, Christianity w'as 
but a transient thing, and a new 7 , more perfect relig- 
ion, the absolute form, destined to endure forever, was 
to succeed it. William of St. Amour {De pericu l is no - 
vissimorum temporum, p. 38) says: ‘For the past fifty- 
five years some have been striving to substitute in 
place of the Gospel of Christ another gospel, which 
i is said to be a more perfect one, which they call the 
Gospel of the Holy Spirit, or the Everlasting Gospel;’ 
whence it is manifest that the anti-Christian doctrine 
, w'ould even now be preached from the pulpits if there 
w r ere not still something that withholdeth (2 Tbess. ii, 
G), namely, the pow'er of the pope and the bishops. 1 1 is 
said in that accursed book, which they called the Ever- 
lasting Gospel, which had already been made know n in 
the Church, that the Everlasting Gospel is as much su- 
perior to the Gospel of Christ as the sun is to the moon 
in brightness, the kernel to the shell in value. The 
kingdom of the Church, or the Gospel of Christ, w*as to 
last only till the year ‘ 12G0.’ In a sermon, St. Amour 
points out the following as doctrines of the Everlasting 
Gospel : that the sacrament of the Church is nothing ; 
that a new' law' of life was to be given, and a new' consti- 
tution of the Church introduced ; and he labors to show 
that, on the contrary, the form of the hierarch}' under 
which the Church then subsisted w'as one resting on 
the divine order, and altogether necessary and immu- 
table” (Neander, Church Hist, iv, 619). The Introduce 
torius has not come down to us, but its contents are 
partly known from a w'riting of Hugo of Caro, pre- 
, served in Quetif and Echard, Script. Ord. Pradic. i, 2(2 
sq., and partly from extracts given by the inquisitor 
Nicolas Eymeric, in bis Directorium Jnquisitorinm, pt. 
ii, qu. ix, No. 4. The theologians of Paris attacked the 
book upon its first appearance, and it was formally 
condemned by Alexander IV, A.D. 1255. — Neander, 
Church History (Torrey’s transl.), iv, 618 ; Engelhard t 
Kircheny. Ahhandlungen (Erlangen, 1832); Engelhardt 
! in Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 275; Gieseler, Oh. Hist. 
per. iii, § 70. 

Evans, Caleb, D.D., son of the Rev. Hugh Evans, 
was horn at Bristol about the year 1737, and was edu- 
cated at the Ilomerton Academy. In 17G7 he became 
colleague to bis father as pastor of the church, and 
tutor in the academy at Broadmead. In 1770 he orig- 
inated “ The Bristol Education Society,” to supply the 
dissenting congregations, and especially the Baptist, 
with able and evangelical ministers, as well as mis- 
sionaries for propagating the Gospel in the world. 
From this time to the period of his death, August 9, 
1791, Dr. Evans continued to discharge the duties of 
president of the society. lie published an Answer to 
Dr. Priestley's Appeal, and a small volume entitled 
Christ Crucifed , or the Scripture Doctrine of the Atone- 
ment (Bristol, 1789, sm. 8vo), besides occasional ser- 
mons. On the breaking out of the American War he 
advocated the freedom of the colonies, and wrote A 
letter to John Wesley, in reply to his Calm Address to 
the American Colonies (London, 1775, 12mo) ; also a Re- 
ply to Fletcher's Vindication of Wesley's Address (Bris- 
tol, 177G, 12 mo). — Jones, Christian Biography, p. 144; 
Allibone, Diet, of Authors, s. v. 

Evans, Christmas, an eloquent Welsh preacher, 
was born December 25, 17GG, at Llandyssul, Cardigan- 
shire. His father w T as poor, and he had no school edu- 
cation. At seventeen he was converted, and joined 


EVANS 


372 


EVE 


the Baptist Church. lie then first learned to read the 
"Welsh Bible, and soon after began to exhort. His 
first settlement as a preacher was at Lleyn ; two years 
after he went to Anglesea to labor as an evangelist at 
ten preaching places, on a salary at first of £17 a year. 
Here he spent thirty-four years. He early showed 
oratorical powers, but in Anglesea lie began to be a 
wonder. For a series of years he made preaching 
tours through South Wales, and the memory of his 
sermons remains to this day. The following sketch 
of one of these sermons is given by his biographer, the 
Bev. D. M. Evans: “In the midst of a general hum 
and restlessness the preacher had read for his text, 
‘And yon that were some time alienated and enemies 
in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath lie recon- 
ciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present 
you holy and unblamable, and unreproachable in his 
sight.’ His first movements were still', awkward, and 
wrestling, while his observations were perhaps crude 
and commonplace rather than striking or novel ; but 
he had not proceeded far before, having thus prepared 
himself, he took one of his wildest flights, bursting 
forth at the same time into those unmelodious but all- 
piercing shrieks under which his hearers often con- 
fessed his resistless power. Closer and closer draw in 
the scattered groups, the weary loungers, and the hith- 
erto listless among the motle} 7 - multitude. The crowd 
becomes dense with eager listeners as they press on 
insensibly towards the preacher. He gradually gets 
into the thickening plot of his homely hut dramatic 
representation, while, all forgetful of the spot on which 
they stood, old men and women, accustomed to prosy 
thoughts and ways, look up with open mouth through 
smiles and tears. Big burly country folk, in whom it 
might have been thought that the faculty of imagina- 
tion had long since been extinguished, became en- 
grossed with ideal scenes. Men ‘ whose talk is of 
bullocks’ are allured into converse with the most spir- 
itual realities. The preachers present become dazzled 
with the brilliance of this new star on the horizon ; 
they start on their feet round the strange young man, 
look hard at him in perfect amazement; loud and 
rapturous confirmations break forth from their lips: 
‘Amen,’ ‘Ben digedig,’ ‘ Diolch bvth,’ fall tumultu- 
ously on the ear; the charm swells onwards from the 
platform to the extreme margin of the wondering 
crowd, and to the occasional loud laugh there has now 
succeeded the baptism of tears. The excitement is at 
its highest; the preacher concludes, but the weeping 
and rejoicing continue till worn out nature brings the 
scene to an end/’ II is chief qualities as a preacher 
“include passion, or ardent excited feeling, a dramatic 
imagination, and grotesque humor. The published 
scraps of sermons which remain, and have been trans- 
lated into English, illustrate these qualities, and al- 
most only these.’’ — Christian Spectator (Lond.) Sept. 
1 <S G3, reprinted in The Theolog. Eclectic, i, 147 ; Evans, 
Memoir of Christmas Evans (1*G2); Stephen, Life of 
Christmas Evans (London, 1817) ; Sermons of C. Evans, 
with Memoir byJas. Cross (l'liila. 1854, 8vo). 

Evans, J olm, D.l)., an eminent Nonconformist di- 
vine, was horn in 1080, at Wrexham, in Denbighshire. 
1 1 is father was minister of Wrexham. The son was 
flrst placed under the care of Mr. Thomas Bowe, near 
London, and studied afterwards at the seminary of 
Air. Timothy Jollie. He was ordained and settled at 
Wrexham, August 18, 1702. “ I)r. Daniel Williams, 

of London, hearing that Mr. Evans was invited to 
Dublin, to prevent his leaving England sent for him 
to the metropolis, where he flrst assisted the doctor, 
afterwards became co-pastor, and at length succeeded 
him at his death. In the Arian controversy he re- 
fused to subscribe to any articles, but maintained the 
orthodox sentiments. In the public services of the 
dissenters he was often called to preside, and was ap- 
pointed to assist in completing Matthew Henry’s Com- 
mentary, of which he supplied the notes on the Epistles 


to the Bomans so well, that Dr. Doddridge says, ‘ The 
exposition of the Bomans, begun by Henry, and fin- 
ished by Dr. Evans, is the best 1 ever saw.’ He was 
I for some years preparing to write a history of non- 
conformity from the Reformation to the civil wars, 
but, by liis death, the work devolved on Mr. Neal, 
lie died May 1G, 1730.” Besides a number of separate 
sermons, he published Discourses concerning the Chris- 
tian Temper , 38 Sermons (4th ed. London, 1737, 2 vols. 

| 8vo), with Life hg John Erskine (1825, 8vo), which are 
called by Dr. Watts “the most complete summary of 
those duties which make up the Christian life,” and by 
1 Doddridge “the best practical pieces in our language.” 
j See Bogue and Bennett, History of Dissenters, ii, 3G4; 
Jones, Christian Biography, p. 143 ; Skeats, Free Church- 
es of Eng 1 and (London, 18G8, 8vo), p. 249. 

Evanson, Edward, a minister of the Church of 
England, was born at Warrington, Lancashire, in 
1731, and was educated at Emanuel College, Cam- 
bridge, where he passed M.A. in 1753. In 17G8 he 
became vicar of South Minims; in 1770, rector of 
i Tewkesbury. He soon began to manifest doubts about 
the Christian doctrines of the Incarnation and the 
| Trinity. For a sermon preached in 1771 he was pros- 
[ ecuted. In 1778 he resigned his preferments in the 
Church, and retired to Mitcham, where he kept a 
school. He died Sept. 25, 1805. Among his writings 
are, On the Observance of Sunday (Ipswich, 1792) : — 
I The Dissonance of the four Evangelists, and their Au- 
thority (Gloucester, 1805, 8vo). In this work Evan- 
son rejects all the Gospels but Mark, and also Bo- 
mans, Ephesians, Colossians, Hebrews, James, Peter, 
John, and Jude. It was refuted by Falconer, Bamp- 
ton Lectures , 1810. 

Evaristus, bishop of Borne, is said to have been 
| born at Bethlehem, and to have succeeded Clement as 
! bishop of Borne about A.D. 100. He is said to have 
! first organized Borne into parishes, and to have fallen 
a martyr A.D. 109. 

Evarts, Jeremiah, secretary of the American 
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, was born 
in Sunderland, Vt., Feb. 3, 1781, and graduated at Yale 
College in 1802. lie studied law, and practised it at 
New Haven up to 1810, when lie removed to Charles- 
town in order to edit The Panoplist , which he contin- 
ued up to 1820. In 1811 lie entered the service of the 
American Board as treasurer. He continued in that 
work, first as treasurer, then as secretary (in 1821), 
during the rest of his life. In 1820 The Panoplist was 
discontinued, and the publication of The Missionary 
Herald was begun by the American Board, with Mr. 
Evarts as its editor. He died in Charleston, S. C. 
(whither he had gone for the benefit of his health), 
May 10, 1831. The Beports of the Board during his 
connection with it were generally from his pen, and 
that of 1830, the last which he wrote, is a document 
of great power. His essays, under the signature of 
William Penn, on the rights and claims of the In- 
dians, were published in 1829. Sec Tracy, Memoirs of 
Jeremiah Evarts (Boston, 1845); Christian Review, xi, 
20 ; Spirit of Pilgrims , iv, 599. 

Eve (II eh. Char rah', TFIH, life or living , so called 
as the progenitor of all the human family; Sept, ac- 
cordingly translates Zw»j in Gen. iii, 20, elsewhere 
Leo, N. Test. Era, Josephus E Ida, Ant. i, 1, 2, 4), the 
name given by Adam to the first woman, hjs wife 
(Gen. iii, 20; iv, 1). B.C. 4172. The account of her 
ercation is found at Gen. ii, 21, 22. It is supposed 
that she was created on the sixth day, after Adam had 
reviewed the animals. Upon the failure of a compan- 
ion suitable for Adam among the creatures which were 
brought to him' to He named, the Lord God caused a 
deep sleep to fall upon him, and took one of his ribs 
(according to the Targum of Jonathan, the thirteenth 
from the right side !), which he fashioned into a worn* 


EVELYN 


373 


EVERETT 


an, and brought her to the man (comp. Plato, Sympos. 
p. 189, 191). The Almighty, by declaring that “it 
was not good for man to be alone,” and by providing 
for him a suitable companion, gave the divine sanction 
to marriage and to monogamy. “This companion was 
taken from his side,” remarks ail old commentator, 
“to signify that she was to be dear unto him as his 
own flesh. Not from his head, lest she should rule 
over him ; nor from his feet, lest he should tyrannize 
over her ; but from his side, to denote that species of 
equality which is to subsist in the marriage state” 
(Matthew Henry, Comment, in loc.). Perhaps that 
which is chiefly adumbrated by it is the foundation 
upon which the union between man and wife is built, 
viz. identity of nature and oneness of origin. Through 
the subtlety of the serpent (q. v.), Eve was beguiled 
into a violation of the one commandment which had 
been imposed upon her and Adam. She took of the 
fruit of the forbidden tree and gave it her husband 
(comp. 2 Cor. xi, 8 ; 1 Tim. ii, 13). See Adam. The 
apostle seems to intimate (1 Tim. ii, 14, 15) that she 
was less aware than her husband of the character of 
her sin ; and that the pangs of maternity were to be 
in some sort an expiation of her offence. The differ- 
ent aspects under which Eve regarded her mission as 
a mother are seen in the names of her sons. At the 
birth of the first she said “I have gotten a man from 
the Lord,” or, as some have rashly rendered it, “I 
have gotten a man, even the Lord,” mistaking him for 
the Redeemer. When the second was born, finding 
her hopes frustrated, she named him Abel, or vanity. 
When his brother had slain him, and she again bare a 
son, she called his name Seth, and the joy of a mother 
seemed to outweigh the sense of the vanity of life: 
“For God,” said she, “hath appointed me another 
seed instead of Abel, for Cain slew him.” See Abel. 

The Eastern people have paid honors to Adam and 
Eve as to saints, and have some curious traditions 
concerning them (see D’Herbelot, Pibliotheque Orien- 
tate, s. v. Havah ; Fabricius, Pseudcpigr. V. Test, i, 103 
sq.). There is a remarkable tradition preserved among 
the Rabbis that Eve was not the first wife of Adam, 
but that previous to her creation one had been created 
in the same way, which, they sagaciously observe, ac- 
counts for the number of a man’s ribs being equal on 
each side. Lilith , or Litis , for this was the name of 
Adam’s first consort, fell from her state of innocence 
without tempting, or, at all events, without success- 
fully tempting her husband. She was immediately 
ranked among the fallen angels, and has ever since, 
according to the same tradition, exercised an inveter- 
ate hatred against all women and children. Up to a 
very late period she was held in great dread lest she 
should destroy male children previous to circumcision, 
after which her power over them ceased. When that 
rite was solemnized, those who were present were in 
the habit of pronouncing, with a loud voice, the names 
of Adam and Eve, and a command to Lilith to depart 
(see Eisenmenger, Entdecktes Judenthum , ii, 421). She 
has been compared with the Pandora of classic fable 
(Bauer, Mythol. i, 90 sq. ; Buttmann, Mythologies, i, 48 
sq. ; llasse, Entdeckung, i, 232). 

See Olmsted, Our First Mother (N. Y. 1852) ; Rei- 
neccius, De A damo androgyno (Weissenf. 1725) ; Thilo, 
Filins matris viventium in virum Jehovam (Erlangen, 
1748) ; Koclier, Comment, philol. ad Gen. ii , 18-20 (Jen. 
1779) ; Schulthess, Exeget. theolog. Forschungen , i, 421 
sq. ; Bastard, Doctrine of Geneva , ii, G1 ; Hughes, Fe- 
male Characters , p. 1. 

Evelyn, John, was born Oct. 31, 1G20, at his fa- 
ther’s seat of Wotton, in Surrey. He was educated 
at Baliol College, Oxford, served a short time as a 
volunteer in the Low Countries, and returned at the 
breaking out of the Civil War to rejoin the king’s 
forces ; but, on the king’s defeat at Gloucester, he 
left England, and during the rest of the troubles he 
travelled in France and Italy. In 1052 he returned 


to England, and on the restoration he took an honora* 
hie part in public business. He died Feb. 27, 1700. 
He was one of the original members of the Royal So- 
ciety, and a frequent contributor to its transactions. 
His most valuable work was Sylva , or a Discourse on 
Forest Trees. His Diary (not published till 1818) is 
exceedingly useful for the knowledge it conveys of 
the times in which Evelyn lived. The Diary and Cor- 
respondence has lately been re-edited, with much new 
matter (Lond. 1850-52, 4 vols. 8vo). His History of 
Religion , a rational Account of the true Religion , was 
also first published from the INIS, in 1850 by the Rev. 
N. M. Evanson (London, 2 vols. 8vo) ; and in 1848 his 
Life of Mrs. Godolphin (from MSS.) was published by 
bishop Wilberforce. — Allibone, Diet, of Authors , s. v. 

Evening (Zl?, e' r eb, dusk ; iairipa, ox[/ta), the pe- 
riod following sunset, with which the Jewish day 
SijptpQjl) began (Gen. i, 5; Mark xiii, 35). See Day. 
Some writers have argued that the first creative day 
(Gen. i, 5) is reckoned from the morning , when light 
first appeared (ver. 3), as if “evening” then designa- 
ted not a portion of time, but a termination of the first 
creative period or age ; but this does violence to the 
whole order of the narrative, in which a period of 
night invariably precedes one of daylight, precisely in 
accordance with the conventional Hebrew usage of a 
noyS 'ijptpov or “ evening-and-morning,” and as the 
terms are expressly defined in the former clause of 
ver. 5. If “ evening” in the phrase in question be dis- 
tinguishable from the “ night” as a terminus, it is cer- 
tainly a terminus d quo , as dating the latter from the 
aboriginal “darkness,” ver. 2, and not a terminus ad 
quem of the ensuing day. See Night. 

The Hebrews appear to have reckoned two evenings 
in each day; as in the phrase between the 

two evenings (Exod. xvi, 12; xxx, 8), by which they 
designated that part of the day in which the paschal 
lamb was to be killed (Exod. xii, G ; Lev. xxiii, 5 ; 
Num. ix, 3, 5 ; in the lleb. and margin) ; and, at the 
same time, the evening sacrifice was offered, the lamps 
lighted, and the incense burned (Exod. xxix, 39, 41 ; 
Num. xxviii, 4). But the ancients themselves disa- 
greed concerning this usage ; for the Samaritans and 
Caraites (comp. Reland, De Samarit. § 22, in his Diss. 
Miscell. vol. ii ; Trigland, De Karaeis , chap, iv) under- 
stood the time to be that between sunset and twilight, 
and so Aben Esra at Exod. xii, 0, who writes that it 
was about the third hour (9 o’clock P.M.) ; the Phari- 
sees, on the other hand, as early as the time of Jose- 
phus {War, vi, 9,3), and the Rabbins ( Pesach , v, 3), 
thought that “the^Vstf evening” was that period of 
the afternoon when the sun is verging towards set- 
ting (Gr. TTpiota), “ the second evening” the pre- 
cise moment of sunset itself {otiXtj oxbta), according to 
which opinion the paschal lamb would he slaughtered 
from the ninth to the eleventh hour (3 to 5 o’clock 
PAL). The former of these opinions seems preferable 
on account of the expression in Dent, xvi, 6, “when 
the sun goeth down,” ; and also on ac- 

count of the similar phraseology among the Arabs 
(Borhaneddin, Enchiridion Studiosi , viii, 30, ed. Caspin, 
Lips. 1838; Kamiis , p. 1917; on the contrary, see Po- 
cocke, Ad Carmen Tograi , p. 71 ; Talmud Pieros. Pe- 
rt tch. chap, i ; Babyl. Sabb. ii, 340, fol. ; Bochart, IIie~ 
roz. i, G34, Lips.). — Gcsenius, Thes. lleb. p. 1005. See 
Passover. 

EVENING SACRIFICE. Sec Daily Offering. 

Even-Song, the form of divine service appoint- 
ed to he “said or sung ” in the evening of each day in 
the Church of England, the expression “sung” mean- 
ing not an intonation of the voice, where the service 
is otherwise professedly read, but the chanting of the 
service, as in cathedrals. — Eden, Churchman's Diction- 
ary, s. v. 

Everett, Joseph, an early Methodist Episcopal 


EVERLASTING 


374 


EVIDENCE 


minister, was horn in Queen Anne’s Co., Md., June 17, 
1732; was converted in the time of Wliitefield, under 
the preaching of the Presbyterians (then called “New 
Lights”), in June, 17C3, but soon lost his religion, and 
remained in sin until in 1778 or 1779 lie was reclaim- 
ed through Asbury’s preaching. In 1780 he entered 
the itinerant ministry, and labored as pastor and pre- 
siding elder with great unction and success until 1804, 
when he became superannuated, and died in Dorches- 
ter, Aid., Oct. 1(3, 1809, having preached Christ earn- 
estly for thirty years, and been instrumental in the 
salvation of many souls. He was a preacher “mighty 
through God,” and died in great triumph. See Minutes 
of Conferences, i, 179 ; also Autobiographical Sketch in 
the Armenian Magazine , vol. ii ; Sprague, Annals, vii, 
71 ; Stevens, Hist. M. E. Church. (G. L. T.) 

Everlasting. See Eternal. 

Everlasting Gospel. See Evaxgelium zEter- 

JflW. 

Eves, or Vigils, the nights or evenings before cer- 
tain holydays of the Church. In the primitive times, 
it was the custom for Christians to pass great part of 
the nights that preceded certain holydays in religious 
exercises ; these, from their being performed in the 
night-time, were called vigils or watchings. One of 
the most remarkable in the earl}’ Church was the East- 
er vigil. According to the testimony of Laetantius 
and Jerome, the early Christians expected the second 
coming of Christ on this night, and prepared them- 
selves, by fasting, prayer, and other spiritual exercises, j 
for that great event. The illuminations on these vig- 
ils were often splendid. The night-watchings, in all 
probability, owed their origin to the necessity under 
which the primitive Christians lay of meeting by 
night: when the occasion ceased, the custom still con- 
tinued. These night-meetings cams to be much abused. 
Yigilantius, in the 4th century, strongly inveighed ! 
against them on the ground of their being injurious j 
to the morals of young persons, lie was opposed in 
this view by Jerome. Complaints, however, contin- j 
Tied to increase, till at length the custom was abolished. 
The fasts, however, were retained, keeping the former 
name of vigils. The Church of England has assigned 
vigils to several of her festivals, but lias prescribed no 
other observance of them than the reading of the col- 
lect peculiar to the festival. The holydays which 
have vigils may be seen in the English Prayer-book, 
in the table of the vigils, fasts, and days of abstinence 
to be observed in the year. There are no vigils rec- 
ognised in the Protestant Episcopal Church, the table 
of vigils being left out by the revisers. The Method- 
ist Episcopal Church observes one vigil in the year, 
the Watch-night, Dee. 31, in which service is kept up 
until midnight. — Pingham, Orig. Eccl. bk. viii, cli. x, § 

1 ; xiii, 111, 4 ; Eden, Churchman'' s Diet. s. v. 

E'vi (lleb. Evi , ‘"■'X, desire or dwelling; Sept. 
Euti, VJdv), one of the five kings (“ dukes”) of the Mid- 
ianites (near Sihon) slain by the Israelites in the war 
arising out of the idolatry of Ilaal-peor, induced by j 
the suggestion of Ilalnani (Num. xxxi, 8), and whose 
lands were afterwards allotted to Keuben (Josh, xiii, 
21). See Midi ax. 

Evidence. 1. Evidence is the rendering in the 
A. Y. of “SD, se'pher, a hook (as usually rendered), or 
writing (q.v.) generally, hence a document of title, i. q. 
deed or bill of sfde (Jer. xxxii, 10, 11, II, 4 I) ; t\sy\oc, 1 
proof (lleb. xi, 1 ; “ reproof,” 2 Tim. iii, 16, i. e. con- 
viction). 

II. Evidence is defined by Plackstonc “to signify 
that which demonstrates, makes clear, or ascertains 
the truth of the very fact or point in issue, either on 
the one side or the other” {Comm, iii, 23). • “ Intuitive ! 
evidence comprehends all first truths, or principles of 
common sense, as ‘every change implies the operation , 
of a cause axioms in science, as ‘ things equal to the i 


same thing are equal to one another;’ ancl the evi* 
dence of consciousness, whether by sense, or memory, 
or thought, as when we touch, or remember, or know, 
or feel anything. Evidence of this kind arises direct- 
ly from the presence or contemplation of the object, 
and gives knowledge without any effort upon our 
parts. Deductive evidence is distinguished as demon- 
strative and probable. Demonstrative evidence rests 
upon axioms, or first truths, from which, by ratioci- 
nation, we attain to other truths. It is scientific, and 
leads to certainty. It admits not of degrees; and 
it is impossible to conceive the contrary of the truth 
which it establishes. Probable evidence has reference, 
not to necessary, but contingent truth. It admits of 
degrees, and is derived from various sources; c. g. 
experience, analogy, and testimony” (Fleming, Vocab- 
ulurij of Philosophg, s. v.). 

The Scotch school of metaphysics presents the doc- 
trine of evidence as follows : “ The theory of evidence 
was not unknown to Aristotle and the ancient writers, 
but it is chiefly to the researches of modern logicians, 
from Paeon downwards, that we are indebted for a 
complete exposition of it. The grounds on which we 
believe a statement to be either true or false are term- 
ed the evidence. These grounds, it is obvious, may 
vary in kind as well as in degree. Some truths are 
capable of being established with undoubted certainty; 
others, again, admit of a proof more or less strong- 
It is of great importance, therefore, to know by what 
kind of evidence any fact or statement can he support, 
ed, and thus we may readily ascertain to what extent 
our belief in it may be carried. The two great classes 
into which all kinds of evidence are usually reduced 
are intuitive and deductive , the former calling for im- 
mediate and irresistible belief, independently of any 
process of argumentation whatever ; the latter requir- 
ing for its proof various consecutive steps of reason- 
ing. Some writers are in the habit of dividing evi- 
dence into three classes : intuitive- deductive, and 
demonstrative, and the evidence of testimony. Under 
intuitive evidence, which commands instant and irre- 
sistible belief, are generally included, besides those a 
priori truths which are necessarily involved in an act 
of consciousness, the evidence of sense, of memory, 
and of axioms or general principles. It is well, how- 
ever, to bear in mind thi t consciousness and intuitive 
evidence are convertible terms, and that is in no sense 
entitled to be considered as resting on intuitive evi- 
dence which is not involved in an act of consciousness. 
This view of the subject no doubt limits the number 
of intuitive, and therefore dogmatically certain truths; 
sufficient, however, remains to establish a sure foun- 
dation for all future reasoivngs of every kind. And 
this is all that ought to he (hsired. Those truths only 
arc entitled to be ranked as intuitions which we can- 
not deny without involving ourselves in an obvious 
contradiction. What is essentially necessary to the 
operation of our iutellectual and moral nature is intu- 
itive. We cannot think, for example, without being 
subjected to the influence of the evidence of conscious- 
ness. To these, then, in so far as man is concerned, 
dogmatical certainty belongs. He cannot doubt their 
truth without disclaiming the nature with which lie 
has been endowed. The evidence of intuition, or con- 
sciousness, is certain in itself, but from its truths no 
other truths can be deduced. Hence the distinction 
drawn between this and all the other species of evi- 
dence, which are classed under one head, termed de- 
ductive. Deductive evidence, or that which is chiefly 
available in the evolution of unknown from known 
truths, is usually distinguished into two kinds, demon- 
strative and moral, or probable evidence, giving rise 
to a corresponding distinction in modes of reasoning. 
It is of great importance that the difference between 
demonstrative and probable evidence be kept constant- 
ly in view, that we may be prevented from confound- 
ing two species of truth so completely distinct from 


EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 375 EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 


one another. The evidence of demonstration applies 
to necessary, moral or probable evidence to contingent, 
truth. The great mass of objects upon which our 
judgment and reasonings are exercised rests upon 
probable evidence. Demonstrative evidence is very 
limited in the range of its application, extending no 
farther than to the relations of number and quantity, 
which are capable of being expressed in language so 
strictly definite as to admit of no misunderstanding or 
mistake. On the strict definition of terms rests the 
whole certainty of mathematical truth, which is not 
an absolute, therefore, but a hypothetical certainty; 
and to the great mass of phenomena, and events with 
which we are familiarly conversant, such a mode of 
reasoning would be altogether inapplicable. The lan- 
guage employed is too vague and ambiguous to admit 
of strict definition; and such is the imperfection of 
language that, however desirable it might be to have 
words used in a fixed meaning, it is impracticable. 
The idea has, no doubt, been entertained of reducing 
words, expressive of our views on general subjects, to 
a fixed and certain signification; and even the illus- 
trious names of Leibnitz and Locke are found in con- 
nection with such a plan, and yet we fear the expe- 
rience of all past ages must pronounce it utopian. 
However advantageous, indeed, such a plan in some 
respects might be, it is very doubtful whether it might 
not so fetter and constrain the mind that no scope 
would be given for the exercise of those powers which 
the labor required in procuring probable evidence 
summons into action. It is very injurious to the mind 
to entertain too strong a partiality for one species of 
evidence rather than another. We thereby lose sight 
of tho important fact that the same kind of evidence is 
not equally applicable in all cases, and that therefore 
we ought only to require such evidences as the partic- 
ular circumstances of the case admit. Instead, there- 
fore, of being dissatisfied with the kind of evidence 
adduced, it ought to be our chief inquiry whether, in 
any given case, we have obtained the strongest evi- 
dence of that kind which is applicable.” 

On the distinction between probable and demonstra- 
tive evidence, see Cutler, Analogy of Religion (Intro- 
duction^. See also Gardner, Christian Cyclopadia , p. 
352; Bergier, Diet, de Theologie , ii, 534; Crown, On 
Cause and Effect, notes E, F ; Abercrombie, On Intellec- 
tual Powers, pt. ii ; Starkie, On Evidence , i, 471 ; Gam- 
bier, On Moral Evidence (London, 1824, 8vo); Locke, 
Essay, bk. iv, ch. 15. 

Evidences of Christianity, the title generally 
given by English writers to the proofs of the divine 
origin of the Christian revelation. This branch of 
theology does not include demonstrations of the being 
of God against the atheists, but is directed against all 
who deny the divine authority of Christianity and of 
the Scriptures on which it rests. The term Apologetics 
has been adopted in Germany for the name of this sci- 
ence, and under that title and that of Apology we have 
given an account of the forms which the proofs and 
defences of Christianity have assumed in the various 
periods of Church history. In this article we give 
(I.) a summary of the evidences as they are common- 
ly staled by English writers; (II.) a summary of the 
views held by different writers as to the relative value 
of the several branches of evidence. 

I. Summary of Christian Evidences . — The evidences 
of Christianity are usually classed by English writers 
under three heads — External, Internal, and Collateral. 
The External evidences are those which demonstrate 
the authenticity, credibility, and divine authority of 
the Scriptures, including the arguments from miracles 
and prophecy. The Internal evidence is drawn from 
the excellence and beneficial tendency of the doctrines 
and morals of Scriptnre, from the character of Christ, 
and from the marks of integrity, consistency, and in- 
spiration which aro inherent in the record. The Col- 
lateral evidence is drawn from the history of Chris- 


I tianity itself, from its marvellous diffusion, its effects 
■ upon human nature, upon the progress of society, and 
upon what is generally called civilization. One of the 
! best sketches of the evidences, according to this classi- 
fication of them, is that given by Watson (Institutes, vol. 
i). Preliminary to a consideration of these direct evi- 
dences, he gives an excellent sketch of the presumptive 
evidence, of which the following is a brief outline. 
Man is universally admitted, by all who admit the be- 
ing of God, to be a moral and responsible agent, under 
the dominion of the law of God. But deists assert 
that this law is given in nature sufficiently, and that 
I revelation is unnecessary. It can be shown, on the 
other hand, that human reason, unaided, has never af- 
forded to man any clear standard of moral quality for 
actions, and that, even if it could do so, its decisions 
lack authority to control the will ; they are, at best, 
but opinions , which may be received or not, at please 
ure. History show's that sober view's of religion have 
been found now here since the times of the patriarchs, 
except in the writings of the O. and N. T., and in 
writings drawn from them ; and that w hatever truth 
lias been found in the religious systems of the heathen 
can be traced to revelation. Their notions as to the 
| very rudimentary doctrines of religion, e. g. God, 
providence, immortality, etc., clearly show' the neces- 
sity of revelation. Admitting, then, the presumption 
that a revelation should be given in some way, we 
may show', d priori, that it must (1) contain informa- 
tion on the subjects most important to man; (2) that 
it must accord with the principles of former revela- 
tions ; (3) that it must have an external authentica- 
tion ; and (4) that it must contain provisions for its own 
effectual promulgation. All these conditions are ful- 
filled by the revelation given in the Scriptures of the 
Old and New Testament, and nowhere else. 

1. The external evidences include miracles and 
prophecy. “We need not inquire w'hether external 
| evidence of a revelation is in all cases requisite to him 
who immediately and at first receives it; for the ques- 
i tion is not whether private revelations have ever been 
1 made by God to individuals, and what evidence is re- 
quired to authenticate them, blit what is the kind of 
evidence which w'e ought to require of one who pro- 
fesses to have received a revelation of the will of God, 
with a command to communicate it to us, and to enjoin 
it upon our acceptance and submission as the rule of 
our opinions and manners. He may believe that a di- 
vine communication has been made to himself, but his 
belief has no authority to command ou?'s. He may 
have actually received it, but w’e have not the means 
of knowing it w ithout proof. That proof is not the 
high and excellent nature of the truths he teaches; 
in other w'ords, that which is called the internal evi- 
dence cannot he that proof. For we cannot tell wdicther 
the doctrines he teaches, though they should be capa- 
ble of a higher degree of rational demonstration than 
any delivered to the world before, may not be the 
fruits of his own mental labor. lie may be conscious 
that the}' are not, but ■ire have no means of knowing 
that of which lie is conscious except by his own testi- 
mony. 4o us, therefore, they would have no authori- 
ty but as the opinions of a man w hose intellectual at- 
tainments we might admire, but to whom we could 
not submit as to an infallible guide, and the less so if 
any part of the doctrine taught by him W'crc either 
mysterious or above our reason, or contrary to our in- 
terests, prejudices, and passions. If, therefore, any 
person should profess to have received a revelation of 
truth from God to teaeli to mankind, and that he w r as 
directed to command their obedience to it on pain of 
the divine displeasure, he w'ould he asked for some ex- 
ternal authentication of his mission ; nor would the 
reasonableness and excellence of his doctrines be ac- 
cepted in place of this. The latter might entitle him 
to attention, but nothing short of the former would be 
thought a ground sufficiently strong for yielding to 


EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 3T6 EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 


him an absolute obedience. Without it lie might rea- 
son and lie heard with respect, but he could not com- 
mand. On this very reasonable ground the Jews on 
one occasion asked our Lord, “ By what authority doest 
thou these things ?” and on another, “ What sign showest 
thou unto us ?” Agreeably to this, the authors both of 
the Jewish and the Christian revelations profess to 
have authenticated their mission by the two great ex- 
ternal proofs, Miracles and Prophecy, and it re- 
mains to be considered whether this kind of authenti- 
cation be reasonably sufficient to command our faith 
and obedience. 

The question is not whether we may not conceive 
of external proofs of the mission of Moses, and of 
Christ and his apostles, differing from those which are 
assumed to have been given, and more convincing. 
In whatever way the authentication had been made, 
we might have conceived of modes of proof differing 
in kind, or more ample in circumstance ; so that to 
ground an objection upon the absence of a particular 
kind of proof, for which we have a preference, would 
be trifling. But this is the question : Is a mission to 
teach the will of God to man, under his immediate au- 
thority, sufficiently authenticated when miracles are 
really performed, and proqjhecies actually and unequiv- 
ocally accomplished? We have, then, first to show 
that miracles and prophecies are possible, that their 
credibility can be established by human testimony, 
and that, when thus authenticated, they afford the nec- 
essary evidence of revelation. These topics will be 
treated under the heads of Miracles and Prophecy 
(q. v.). The records of both miracles and prophecy 
are found in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testa- 
ments. The antiquity of these writings is demonstra- 
ted by the very fact of the existence, on the one hand, 
of the Jewish polity, and, on the other, of the Chris- 
tian religion, as well as by the concurrent testimony 
of ancient profane authors. These books can lie shown, 
by testimony more accurate and minute than exists 
with regard to any other ancient records, to be sub- 
stantially the same now as when originally written, 
nay, that they have come down to our times without 
any material alteration whatsoever. The credibility 
of the testimony of the sacred writers themselves is 
fairly proved by the character of the men, by the cir- 
cumstances under which they wrote, and by the entire 
absence of motive for falsification. Allowing, then, 
the New Testament to be genuine, it follows, “ 1. That 
the writers knew whether the facts they state were 
true or false (John i, 3 ; xix, 27, 35 ; Acts xxvii, 7, 9). 

2. That the character of these writers, so far as we can 
judge by their works, seems to render them worthy 
of regard, and leaves no room to imagine they intend- 
ed to deceive us. The manner in which they tell their 
story is most happily adapted to gain our belief. There 
is no air of declamation and harangue; nothing that 
looks like artifice and design : no apologies, no enco- 
miums, no characters, no reflections, no digressions ; 
but the facts are recounted with great simplicity, just 
as they seem to have happened, and those facts are 
left to speak for themselves. Their integrity, like- 
wise, evidently appears in the freedom with which 
they mention those circumstances which might have 
exposed their Master and themselves to the greatest 
contempt amongst prejudiced and inconsiderate men, 
such as they knew they must generally expect to meet 
with (.John i, 45, 46; vii, 52 ; Luke ii, 4, 7 ; Mark vi, 
3; Matt, viii, 20; Johu vii, 48). It is certain that 
there are in their writings the most genuine traces not 
only of a plain and honest, but a most pious and de- 
vout, a most benevolent and generous disposition, as 
every one must acknowledge who reads their writings. 

3. The apostles were under no temptation to forge a 
storv of this kind, or to publish it to the world know- 
ing it to lie false. 4. lla<Lthey done so, humanly 
speaking, they must quickly have perished in it, and 
their foolish cause must have died with them, without 


ever gaining any credit in the world. Reflect more 
particularly on the nature of those grand facts, the 
death, resurrection, and exaltation of Christ, which 
formed the great foundation of the Christian scheme, 
as first exhibited to the apostles. The resurrection of 
a dead man, and his ascension into an abode in the 
upper world, were such strange things that a thousand 
objections would immediately have been raised against 
them, and some extraordinary proof would have been 
justly required as a balance to them. Consider the 
manner in which the apostles undertook to prove the 
truth of their testimony to these facts, and it will evi- 
dently appear that, instead of confirming their scheme, 
it must have been sufficient utterly to have overthrown 
it, had it been itself the most probable imposture that 
the wit of man could ever have contrived. See Acts 
iii, ix, xiv, xix, etc. They did not merely assert that 
they had seen miracles wrought by Jesus, but that he 
had endowed them with a variety of miraculous pow- 
ers ; and these they undertook to display, not in such 
idle and useless tricks as sleight of hand might per- 
form, but in such solid and important works as ap- 
peared worthy of divine interposition, and entirely su- 
perior to human power. Nor were these things un- 
dertaken in a corner, in a circle of friends or depend- 
ents ; nor were they said to be wrought, as might be 
suspected, by any confederates in the fraud ; but they 
were done often in the most public manner. "Would 
impostors have made such pretensions as these? or, if 
they had, must they not immediately have been ex- 
posed and ruined? Now, if the New Testament be 
genuine, then it is certain that the apostles pretend to 
have wrought miracles in the very presence of those 
to whom their writings were addressed ; nay, more, 
they profess likewise to have conferred those miracu- 
lous gifts in some considerable degrees on others, even 
on the very persons to whom they write, and they ap- 
peal to their consciences as to the truth of it. And 
could there possibly be room for delusion here ? 5. It 

is likewise certain that the apostles did gain early 
credit, and succeeded in a most wonderful manner. 
This is abundantly proved by the vast number of 
churches established in early ages at Rome, Corinth, 
Ephesus, Colosse, etc. 6. That, admitting the facts 
which they testified concerning Christ to be true, then 
it was reasonable for their contemporaries, and is rea- 
sonable for us, to receive the Gospel which they have 
transmitted to us as a divine revelation. The great 
thing they asserted was, that Jesus was the Christ, and 
that he was proved to be so by prophecies accomplish- 
ed in him, and by miracles wrought by him, and by 
others in his name. If we attend to these, we shall 
find them to be no contemptible arguments, but must 
be forced to acknowledge that, the premises being es- 
tablished, the conclusion most easily and necessarily 
follows; and this conclusion, that Jesus is the Christ, 
taken in all its extent, is an abstract of the Gospel rev- 
elation, and therefore is sometimes put for the whole 
of it (Acts viii, 37 ; xvii, 18)” (Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 
Christianity). 

2. The Internal evidence of Christianity is drawn 
from a consideration of the doctrines of Scripture, of 
their consistency with the character of God, and their 
tendency to promote the virtue and happiness of men. 
It takes note also of the morals of Christianity, and 
of their superiority to all other systems of ethics ; and 
especially of the character of Christ, as a real life far 
transcending even the highest imaginations of merely 
human moralists. “ Of its just and sublime concep- 
tions and exhibitions of the divine character; of the 
truth of that view of the moral state of man upon 
which its disciplinary treatment is founded ; of the 
correspondence that there is between its views of man’s 
mixed relation to God as a sinful creature, and yet 
pitied and cared for, and that actual mixture of good 
and evil, penalty and forbearance, which the condi- 
tion of the world presents; of .the connection of its 


EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 377 EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 


doctrine of atonement with hope ; of the adaptation of | 
its doctrine of divine influence to the moral condition 
of mankind when rightly understood, and the affect- 
ing benevolence and condescension which it implies ; 
and of its noble and sanctifying revelations of the 
blessedness of a future life, much might be said — they 
are subjects, indeed, on which volumes have been writ- 
ten, and they can never be exhausted. Nowhere ex- 
cept in the Scriptures have we a perfect system of 
morals ; and the deficiencies of pagan morality only 
exalt the purity, the comprehensiveness, the praetiea- , 
bility of ours. The character of the Being acknowl- 
edged as supreme must always impress itself upon 
moral feeling and practice, the obligation of which 
rests upon his will. The God of the Bible is ‘holy,’ 
withoutspot; ‘just,’ without partiality; ‘good,’ bound- 
lessly benevolent and beneficent; and his law is the I 
image of himself, ‘ holy, just, and good.’ These great 
moral qualities are not made known to us merely in 
the abstract, so as to be comparatively feeble in their 
influence, but in the person of Christ, our God incar- 
nate, they are seen exemplified in action, displaying | 
themselves amidst human relations, and the actual 
circumstances of human life. With pagans the au- 
thority of moral rules was either the opinion of the ; 
wise, or the tradition of the ancient, confirmed, it is 
true, in some degree, by observation and experience ; 
but to us they are given as commands immediately 
issuing from the supreme Governor, and ratified as his 
by the most solemn and explicit attestations. With 
them many great moral principles, being indistinctly 
apprehended, were matters of doubt and debate; to 
us, the explicit manner in which they are given ex- 
cludes both : for it cannot be questioned whether we 
are commanded to love oil' neighbor as ourselves; to 
do to others as we would that they should do to us, a 
precept which comprehends almost all relative moral- 
ity in one plain principle ; to forgive our enemies ; to 
love all mankind; to live righteously and soberly, as 
well as godly; that magistrates must he a terror only 
to evil-doers, and a praise to them that do well ; that 
subjects are to render honor to whom honor, and trib- 
ute to whom tribute, is due ; that masters are to be 
just and merciful, and servants faithful and obedient. 
These, and many other familiar precepts, are too ex- 
plicit to be mistaken, and too authoritative to he dis- 
puted; two of the most powerful means of rendering 
law effectual. Those who never enjoyed the benefit 
of revelation, never conceived justly and comprehen- 
sively of that moral state of the heart from which right 
and beneficent conduct alone can flow ; and, therefore, 
when they speak of the same virtues as those enjoined 
by Christianity, they are to be understood as attach- 
ing to them a lower idea. In this the infinite superi- 
ority of Christianity displays itself. The principle of 
obedience is not only a sense of duty to God and the 
fear of his displeasure, but a tender love, excited by 
his infinite compassions to us in the gift of his Son, 
which shrinks from offending. To this influential mo- 
tive as a reason of obedience is added another, drawn 
from its end: one not less influential, but which hea- 
then moralists never knew — the testimony that we 
please God, manifested in the acceptance of our pray- 
ers, and in spiritual and felicitous communion with 
him. By Christianity, impurity of thought and desire 
is restrained in an equal degree as are their overt acts 
in the lips and conduct. Humanity, meekness, gen- 
tleness, placability, disinterestedness, and charity are 
all as clearly and solemnly enjoined as the grosser , 
vices are prohibited ; and on the unruly tongue itself 
is impressed ‘the law of kindness.’ Nor are the in- 
junctions feeble; they are strictly law, and not mere 
advice and recommendations: ‘Without holiness no 
man shall see the Lord;’ and thus our entrance into 
heaven, and our escape from perdition, are made to 
depend upon this preparation of mind. To all this is 
added possibility, nay, certainty of attainment, if we J 


use the appointed means. A pagan could draw, though 
not with lines so perfect, a beau ideal of virtue which 
he never thought attainable; but the ‘full assurance 
of hope’ is given by the religion of Christ to all who 
are seeking the moral renovation of their nature, be- 
cause ‘ it is God that worketh in us to will and to do 
of his.good pleasure.’ When such is the moral nature 
of Christianity, how obvious is it that its tendency, 
both as to individuals and to society, must he in the 
highest sense beneficial ! From every passion which 
wastes, and burns, and frets, and enfeebles the spirit, 
the individual is set free, and his inward peace renders 
his obedience cheerful and voluntary ; and we might 
appeal to infidels themselves whether, if the moral 
principles of the Gospel were wrought into the hearts 
and embodied in the conduct of all men, the world 
would not be happy; whether if governments ruled, 
and subjects obeyed, by the laws of Christ; whether 
if the rules of strict justice which are enjoined upon 
us regulated all the transactions of men, and all that 
mercy to the distressed which we are taught to feel 
and to practise came into operation ; and whether, if 
the precepts which delineate and euforee the duties of 
husbands, wives, masters, servants, parents, children, 
did, in fact, fully and generally govern all these rela- 
tions — whether a better age than that called golden by 
the poets would not then be realized, and Virgil’s 
Jam redit et rVryro, rcdeunt Saturnia regna, 

[Now Astnea returns, anrl the Saturnian reign,] 

be far too weak to express the mighty change? [It 
was in the reign of Saturn that the heathen poets fix- 
ed the Golden Age. At that period, according to them, 
Astriea (the goddess of justice), and many other dei- 
ties, lived on earth, but, being offended with the wick- 
edness of men, they successively fled to heaven. As- 
trsea staid longest, but at last retired to her native 
| seat, and was translated into the sign Virgo, next to 
Libra, who holds her balance.] Such is the tendency 
of Christianity. On immense numbers of individuals 
it lias superinduced these moral changes; all nations, 
where it has been fully and faithfully exhibited, bear, 
amidst their remaining vices, the impress of its hal- 
lowing and benevolent influence: it is now in active 
exertion in many of the darkest and worst parts of the 
earth, to convey the same blessings ; and he who would 
arrest its progress, were he able, would quench the 
only hope which remains to our world, and prove him- 
self an enemy not only to himself, but to all mankind. 
What, then, we ask, does all this prove, but that the 
Scriptures are worthy of God, and propose the very 
ends which rendered a revelation necessary? Of the 
whole system of practical religion which it contains 
we may say, as of that which is embodied in our Lord’s 
sermon on the mount, in the words of one who, in a 
course of sermons on that divine composition, has en- 
tered most deeply into its spirit, and presented a most 
instructive delineation of the character which it was 
intended to form, ‘ Behold Christianity in its native 
form, as delivered by its great author. See a picture 
of God, as far as he is imitable by man, drawn by 
God’s own hand. What beauty appears in the whole! 
How just a symmetry! What exact proportion in 
every part! How desirable is the happiness here de- 
scribed ! How venerable, bow lovely is the holiness!’ 
‘If,’ says Jeremy Taylor, ‘wisdom, and mercy, and 
justice, and simplicity, and holiness, and purity, and 
meekness, and eontentedness, and charity be images 
of God and rays of divinity, then that doctrine, in 
which all these shine so gloriously, and in which noth- 
ing else is ingredient, miist^ needs be from God. If 
the holy Jesus had come into the world with less splen- 
dor of power and mighty demonstrations, yet the ex- 
cellency of what he taught makes him alone fit to be 
the master of the world and agreeahle to all this has 
been its actual influence upon mankind. Although, 
says Bishop P< rteus, Christianity has not always been 
so well understood or so honestly practised as it ought 


EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 378 EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 


to have been ; although its spirit lias been often mis- 
taken and its precepts misapplied, yet under all these 
disadvantages it has gradually produced a visible 
change in those points which most materially concern 
the peace and quiet of the world. Its beneficent spir- 
it has spread itself through all the different relations 
and modifications of life, and communicated its kindly 
influence to almost every public and private concern 
of mankind. It has insensibly worked itself into the 
inmost frame and constitution of civil states. It has 
given a tinge to the complexion of their governments, 
to the temper and administration of their laws. It has 
restrained the spirit of the prince and the madness of 
the people. It has softened the rigors of despotism 
and tamed the insolence of conquest It has, in some 
degree, taken away the edge of the sword, and thrown 
even over the horrors of war a veil of mercy. It has 
descended into families ; lias diminished the pressure 
of private tyranny; improved every domestic endear- 
ment ; given tenderness to the parent, humanity to the 
master, respect to superiors, to inferiors case; so that 
mankind are, upon the whole, even in a temporal view, 
under infinite obligations to the mild and pacific tem- 
per of the Gospel, and have reaped from it more sub- 
stantial worldly benefits than from any other institu- 
tion upon earth. As one proof of this among many 
others, consider only the shocking carnage made in 
the human species by the exposure of infants, the gla- 
diatorial shows, which sometimes cost Rome twenty or 
thirty li ves in a month ; and the exceedingly cruel 
usage of slaves allowed and practised by the ancient 
pagans. These were not the accidental and tempo- 
rary excesses of a sudden fury, but were legal, and es- 
tablished, and constant methods of murdering and tor- 
menting mankind. Had Christianity done nothing 
more than brought into disuse, as it confessedly has 
done, the two former of these inhuman customs entire- 
ly, and the latter to a very great degree, it has justly 
merited the title of the benevolent religion. But this 
is far from being all. Throughout the more enlight- 
ened parts of Christendom there prevails a gentleness 
of manners widely different from the ferocity of the 
most civilized nations of antiquit}’'; and that liberality 
with which every species of distress is relieved is a 
virtue peculiar to the Christian name. But we may 
ask farther, AVhat success has it had on the mind of 
man as it respects his eternal welfare? How many 
thousands have felt its power, rejoiced in its benign in- 
fluence, and under its dictates been constrained to de- 
vote themselves to the glory and praise of God ! Bur- 
dened with guilt, incapable of finding relief from hu- 
man resources, the mind has here found peace unspeak- 
able in beholding that sacrifice which alone could atone 
for transgression. Here the hard and impenitent heart 
has been softened, the impetuous passions restrained, 
the ferocious temper subdued, powerful prejudices con- 
quered, ignorance dispelled, and the obstacles to real 
happiness removed. Here the Christian, looking round 
on the glories and blandishments of this world, has j 
been enabled, with a noble contempt, to despise all. 
Here death itself, the king of terrors, has lost all his 
sting; and the soul, with a holy magnanimity, lias 
borne up in the agonies of a dying hour, and sweetly 
sung itself away to everlasting bliss. In respect to 
its future spread, we have reason to believe that all na- 
tions shall feel its happy effects. The prophecies are I 
pregnant with matter as to this belief. It seems that 
not only a nation or a country, but the whole habit- 
able globe, shall become the kingdom of our God and 
of his Christ” (Watson, Dictionary , s. v. Christianity). 

3. The Collateral evidence treats of the marvellous 
diffusion of the Gospel, and of its actual effects upon 
mankind and upon the history of civilization, as proofs 
of its divine origin. “Of its early triumphs,* the his- 
tory of the Acts of the Apostles is a splendid record ; 
and in process of time it made a wonderful progress j 
through Europe, Asia, and Africa. In the third cen- , 


tury there were Christians in the camp, in the senate, 
and in the palace ; in short, everywhere, as we are in- 
formed, except in the temples and the theatres : they 
filled the towns, the country, and the islands. Men 
and women of all ages and ranks, and even those of 
the first dignity, embraced the Christian faith, inso- 
much that the pagans complained that the revenues 
of their temples were ruined. They were in such 
great numbers in the empire, that, as Tertullian ex- 
presses it, if they had retired into another country, 
they would have left the Roman territory only a 
i frightful solitude. For the illustration of this argu- 
ment, we may observe that the Christian religion 
was introduced everywhere in opposition to the sword 
of the magistrate, the craft and interest of the priests, 
the pride of the philosophers, the passions and prej- 
udices of the people, all closely combined in sup- 
port of the national worship, and to crush the Chris- 
tian faith, which aimed at the subversion of heathen- 
ism and idolatry. Moreover, this religion was not 
propagated in the dark by persons who tacitly endeav- 
ored to deceive the credulous, nor delivered out hv little 
and little, so that one doctrine might prepare the way 
for the reception of another; but it was fully and with- 
out disguise laid before men all at once, that they 
might judge of the whole under one view. Conse- 
quently mankind were not deluded into the belief of 
it, but received it upon proper examination and con- 
viction. Besides, the Gospel was first preached and 
first believed bv multitudes in Judaea, where Jesus ex- 
ercised his ministry, and where every individual had 
the means of knowing whether the things that were 
told him were matters of fact; and in this country, 
the scene of the principal transactions on which its 
credibility depended, the history of Christ could never 
have been received unless it had been true, and known 
to all as truth. Again: the doctrine and history of 
Jesus were preached and believed in the most noted 
countries and cities of the world, in the very age when 
he is said to have lived. On the fiftieth day after our 
Lord’s crucifixion, three thousand persons were con- 
verted in Jerusalem by a single sermon of the apos- 
tles ; and a few weeks after this, five thousand who 
believed were present at another sermon preached also 
in Jerusalem (Acts ii, 41; iv, 4; vi, 7 ; viii, 1 ; ix, 1, 
20). About eight or ten years after our Lord’s death, 

1 the disciples were become so numerous at Jerusalem 
and in the adjacent country that they were objects of 
jealousy and alarm to Herod himself (Acts xii, 1). In 
the twenty-second year after the crucifixion, the disci- 
ples in Judaxi are said to have been many myriads 
(Acts xxi, 20). The age in which Christianity was in- 
troduced and received was famous for men whose fac- 
ulties were improved by the most perfect state of so- 
cial life, but w ho were good judges of the evidence of- 
fered in support of the facts recorded in the Gospel his- 
tory ; for it should be recollected that the success of 
the Gospel was not restricted to Judiea, but it -was 
preached in all the different provinces of the Roman 
empire. The first triumphs of Christianity were in 
the heart of Greece itself, the nursery of learning and 
the polite arts, for churches were planted at a very 
early period at Corinth, Ephesus, Bercea, Thessalonica, 
and Philippi. Kven Rome herself, the seat of wealth 
and empire, was not able to resist the force of truth at 
a time when the facts related were recent, and when 
they might, if they had been false, have easily been 
disproved. From Greece and Rome, at a period of 
cultivation and refinement, of general peace and ex- 
tensive intercourse, when one great empire united dif- 
ferent nations and distant people, the confutation of 
these facts would very soon have passed from one 
country to another, to the utter confusion of the per- 
sons who endeavored to propagate the belief of them. 
Nor ought it to be forgotten that the religion to which 
such numbers were proselyted w\as an exclusive one. 

It denied, without reserve, -he truth of every article 


EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 379 EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 


of heathen mythology, and the existence of every ob- 
ject of their worship. It accepted no compromise ; it 
admitted of no comprehension. If it prevailed at all, 
it must prevail by the overthrow of every statue, al- 
tar, and temple in the world. It pronounced all oth- 
er gods to be false, and all other worship vain. These 
are considerations which must have strengthened the 
opposition to it, augmented the hostility which it must 
encounter, and enhanced the difficulty of gaining pros- 
elytes ; and more especially when we recollect that, 
among the converts to Christianity in the earliest age, 
a number of persons remarkable for their station, of- 
fice, genius, education, and fortune, and who were per- 
sonally interested by their emoluments and honors in 
either Judaism or heathenism, appeared among the 
Christian proselytes. Its evidences approved them- 
selves not only to the multitude, but to men of the 
most refined sense and most distinguished abilities, 
and it dissolved the attachments which all powerful 
interest and authority created and upheld” (Watson, 
L c.). 

Paley’s View of the Evidences of Christianity for a 
long time held the first place as a text-book on evi- 
dences in England. Paley even goes so far as to say 
we can conceive of no way in which a revelation could 
be made except by miracles. “In whatever degree 
it is probable, or not very improbable, that a revela- 
tion should be communicated to mankind at all, in the 
same degree it is probable, or not very improbable, 
that miracles should be wrought. Therefore, when 
miracles are related to have been wrought in the pro- 
mulgation of a revelation manifestly wanted, and, if 
true, of inestimable value, the improbabilit} r which 
arises from the miraculous nature of the things related 
is not greater than the original improbability that such 
a revelation should be imparted b} r God.” The book 
is divided into two parts : I. The direct historical evi- 
dence of Christianity, and wherein it is distinguished 
from the evidence alleged for other miracles; II. The 
auxiliary evidences of Christianity. The first part is 
then divided into two propositions : (I.) “ That there is 
satisfactory evidence that many, professing to be orig- 
inal witnesses of the Christian miracles, passed their 
lives in labors, dangers, and sufferings, voluntarily un- 
dergone in attestation of the accounts which they de- 
livered, and solely in consequence of their belief in 
those accounts ; and that they also submitted, from the 
same motives, to new rules of conduct.” (1 1.) “That 
there is not satisfactory evidence that persons pretend- 
ing to be original witnesses of an}” other similar mira- 
cles have a.cted in the same manner, in attestation of 
the accounts which they delivered, and solely in con- 
sequence of their belief in the truth of those accounts.” 
The argument rests on the credibility of testimony, 
and aims to show that the testimony in this case is in- 
dubitable. The second part treats briefly the argu- 
ment from prophecy, from the morality of the Gospel, 
and the internal evidences afforded both by the sacred 
writings, and by the doctrines and histories which they 
contain. 

Coleridge, who disparaged the comparative value 
of evidence from miracles and prophecy, dictated to a 
friend the following scheme of evidences: “1. Mira- 
cles, as precluding the contrary evidence of no mira- 
cles. ft. The material of Christianity, its existence 
and history. III. The doctrines of Christianity, and 
the correspondence of human nature to these doctrines, 
illustrated, 1st, historically, as the actual production 
of the new world, and the dependence of the fate 
of the planet upon it; 2d, individually, from its ap- 
peal for its truth to an asserted fact, which, whether 
it be real or not, every man possessing reason has an 
equal power of ascertaining within himself, namely, a 
will which has more or less lost its freedom, though 
not the consciousness that it ought to be and may be- 
come free ; the conviction that this cannot be achieved 
without the operation of a principle connatural with 


( itself ; the evident rationality of an entire confidence 
in that principle, being the condition and means of its 
operation; the experience in his own nature of tho 
truth of the process described by Scripture as far as be 
! can place himself within the process, aided by the confi- 
dent assurances of others as to the effects experienced by 
them, and which he is striving to arrive at. All these 
form a practical Christian. Add, however, a gradual 
opening out of the intellect to more and more clear per- 
ceptions of the strict coincidence of the doctrines of 
Christianity, with the truths evolved by the mind from 

■ inflexions on its own nature. To such a man one main 
I test of the objectivity, the entity, the objective truth 

■ of his faith, is its accompaniment by an increase of 

I insight into the moral beauty and necessity of the 
process which it comprises, and the dependence of that 
proof on the causes asserted. Believe, and, if thy be- 
lief be right, that insight which gradually transmutes 
faith into knowledge will be the reward of that belief. 
The Christian, to whom, after a long profession Qf 
Christianity, the mysteries remain as much mysteries 
as before, is in the same state as a school-boy with re- 
gard to his arithmetic, to whom th efucit at the end 
of the examples in his ciphering-book is the whole 
ground for his assuming that such and such figures 
amount to so and so. 3d. In the above I include the 
increasing discoveries in the correspondence of the his- 
tory, the doctrines, and the promises of Christianity 
with the past, present, and probable future of human 
nature; ami in this state a foil* comparison of the re- 
ligion as a divine philosophy with all other religions 
which have .pretended to revelations and all other 
systems of philosophy, both with regard to the totality 
of its truth and its identification with the manifest 
march of affairs. I should conclude that, if we sup- 
pose a man to have convinced himself that not only 
the doctrines of Christianity, which may be conceived 
independently of history or time, as the Trinity, spir- 
itual influences, etc., are coincident with the truths 
which his reason, thus strengthened, has evolved from 
its own sources, but that the historical dogmas, namely, 
of the incarnation of the creative Logos, and his becom- 
ing a personal agent, are themselves founded in philo- 
sophical necessity, then it seems irrational that such a 
man should reject the belief of the actual appearance of 
a religion strictly correspondent therewith, at a given 
time recorded, even as much as that he should reject 
Caesar's account of his wars in Gaul after lie had con- 
vinced himself a priori of their possibility. As the re- 
sult of these convictions, be will not scruple to receive 
the particular miracles recorded, inasmuch as it would 
be miraculous that an incarnate God should not work 
what must to mere man appear as miracles, inasmuch 
as it is strictly accordant with the ends and benevolent 
nature of such a being to commence the elevation of 
man above his mere senses by attracting and enforc- 
ing attention, first, through an appeal to those senses. 
But with equal reason will lie expect that no other or 
greater force should be laid on those miracles as such ; 
that they should not be spoken of as good in them- 
selves, much less as the adequate and ultimate proof of 
that religion ; and, likewise, he will receive additional 
satisfaction should lie find these miracles so wrought, 
and on such occasions, as to give them a personal value 
as symbols of important truths when their miraculous- 
ness was no longer needful or efficacious” (Coleridge, 
Works, N. Y., v, 555). 

On the argument of Butler’s Analogy , see the article 
Butler (vol. i, p. 037). 

II. As to the comparative value of the different class- 
es of the Christian evidences there has been much dis- 
pute. Coleridge admitted the value of the testimony 
from miracles for the Jews at the beginning of Chris- 
tianity, but considered that argument as much less 
valuable now than the internal evidence. “It was 
only to overthrow the usurpation exercised in and 
through the senses that the senses were miraculously 


EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 380 EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 


appealed to. Reason and religion are their oivn evi- 
dence. The natural sun is in this respect a symbol 
of the spiritual. Ere he is fully risen, and while his 
glories are still under veil, he calls up the breeze to 
chase away the usurping vapors of the night season, 
and thus converts the air itself into the minister of its 
own purification : not surely a proof or elucidation of 
the light from heaven, but to prevent its interception. 
'Wherever, therefore, similar circumstances coexist 
with the same moral causes, the principles revealed 
and the examples recorded in the inspired writings 
render miracles superfluous; and if we neglect to ap- 
ply truths in expectation of wonders, or under pretext 
of the cessation of the latter, we tempt God, and merit 
the same reply which our Lord gave to the Pharisees 
on a like occasion. I shall merely state here what 
my belief is concerning the true evidences of Christi- 
anity. 1. Its consistency with right reason I consider 
as the outer court of the temple, the common area 
within which it stands. 2. The miracles, with and 
through which the religion was first revealed and at- 
tested. I regard as the steps, the vestibule, and the 
portal of the temple. 3. T he sense, the inward feel- 
ing in the soul of each believer of its exceeding desi- 
rableness^ the experience that he needs something, 
joined with the strong foretokening that the redemp- 
tion and the graces propounded to us in Christ are 
what he needs — this I hold to be the true foundation 
of the spiritual edifice. With the strong a priori 
probability that flows in from 1 and 3 on the corre- 
spondent historical evidence of 2, no man can refuse 
or neglect to make the experiment without guilt. 
But, 4, it is the experience derived from a practical 
conformity to the conditions of the Gospel ; it is the 
opening eye, the dawning light, the terrors and the 
promises of spiritual growth, the blessedness of loving 
God as God, the nascent sense of sin hated as sin, and 
of the incapability of attaining to either without Christ; 
it is the sorrow that still rises up from beneath, and 
the consolation that meets it from above ; the bosom 
treacheries of the principal in the warfare, and the 
exceeding faithfulness and long-suffering of the unin- 
terested ally; in a word, it is the actual trial of the 
faith in Christ, with its accompaniments and results, 
that must form the arched roof, and faith itself is the 
completing key-stone. In order to an efficient be- 
lief in Christianity a man must have been a Christian, 
and this is the seeming argumentum in circulo incident 
to all spiritual truths, to every subject not presentable 
under the forms of time and space, as long as we at- 
tempt to master by the reflex acts of the understand- 
ing what we can only know by the act of becoming. 
‘Do the will of my father, and ye shall know whether 
I am of God.’ These four evidences I believe to have 
been, and still to be, for the world, for the whole 
Church, all necessary, all equally necessary; but that 
at present, and for the majority of Christians born in 
Christian countries, I believe the third and the fourth 
evidence to be the most operative; not as superseding, 
but as involving a glad, undoubting faith in the two 
former” (Coleridge, Biographia Literaria , ch. xxiv). 

Ullmann {Sinlessness of Jesus, § 1) remarks “that 
the nature of the case, and the necessities of their 
contemporaries, justified the apostles in proving the 
divine mission of Christ by the argument from mira- 
cles and propheev'. But the necessity of the times 
and of individuals may in this respect vary ; and al- 
though the Gospel in its essence remains the same, and 
contains eternal, unchangeable truth, yet in a differ- 
ent age a dillercnt method of proof may lead more im- 
mediately to the acknowledgment of this truth. In 
our own time it seems proper to fix our eyes especially 
upon the spiritual character of Jesus in order to obtain 
satisfactory proof of the divinity of his mission and 
instructions, not because the apostolical mode of proof 
has become untenable, but because the other mode 
has a more vital efficacy on account of the style of ed- 


I ucation prevalent at the present day. We do not find 
ourselves in immediate, conscious connection with the 
spirit and prophecies of the Old Testament, as the 
dews were in the time of the apostles; we live among 
contemporaries to whom miracles are more a ground 
of douht than of faith ; we should not forget that the 
proof from miracles exerts its full power, properly 
I speaking, on none but the e} r e-witnesses of them, and 
conducts us to the desired conclusion only by a cir- 
| cuitous path. On the other hand, a vivid apprehen- 
[ sion of the inward character of Jesus brings us nearer 
to the operative centre of Christianity, and at the same 
time makes us feel the influence of the moral power 
which goes forth from that centre. Here faith in Je- 
i sns rests immediately on himself; it is free, spiritual 
confidence in his person. As with his contempora- 
ries everything depended on the yielding confidence 
I with which they received the favors which he brought 
them, so likewise with us this confidence may be the 
! element of a full belief in Christianity, and is, at all 
events, a condition of receiving benefit from our Re- 
j deemer.” 

The tendency of German theology has gone against 
the external evidences of Christianity, but this very 
tendency opened the door to rationalism and infidelity, 
above which German orthodoxy has only recently be- 
gun to emerge. On this point, see the New York Re- 
view, ii, 141 sq. See also bishop Butler’s admirable 
discussion of the “particular” evidence for Christian- 
ity in his Analogy of Religion , pt. ii, ch. vii. See also 
Mansell, in Aids to Faith , Essay i (London, 1861, 8vo). 
The tendency of the best modern apologists is not to 
thrust the argument from miracles into the back- 
ground, but to vindicate it afresh. So Auberlen, 
Gbttliche OJfenbarung (1864); Mozley, On Miracles; 
Fisher, Essays on the supernatural Origin of Christian- 
ity , p. 12 sq., 503 sq. The rejection of miracles gen- 
, e rally leads to a rejection of the doctrine of the per- 
sonality of God. See, for a fuller treatment of this 
; branch of the subject, the article Miracles. The 
chief task of the apologist for Christianity in the pres- 
ent age (apart from the metaphysical conflict with 
Pantheism and Positivism, for which see articles under 
those heads) is to vindicate the authenticity and the 
early date of the books of the N. T. against the as- 
I saults not merely of avowed skeptics, but also of thco- 
( logians within the Christian Church, such as those of 
the Tubingen school (q. v.). This task resolves it- 
, self, again, into that of vindicating the historical real- 
I ity of the scriptural miracles. “The recent criticism 
of the X.-T. canon, enbraeing the attempt to impeach 
the genuineness of various books, is only a part of the 
great discussion of the historical truth of the N. T. ; 
for it is difficult to attack the credibility of the Gospel 
historians without first disproving their genuineness” 
(Fisher, Essays, p. 14). In the noted Essays and Re- 
views (Boston ed. 18G5, 12mo), Prof. Baden Powell has 
an article on “The Study of the Evidences of Chris- 
tianity,” in which he undertakes to state the present 
condition of the discussion, and to indicate the true 
line of Christian evidences. He disparages the “ pro- 
fessed advocates of an external revelation and histori- 
cal evidence” by innuendo as well as by direct attack, 
and assumes the inconceivability and impossibility of 
miracles. See Goodwin’s article in the American The- 
ological Review, duly, 1861, which closes as follows; 
“ It is one thing to urge other evidences of Christian- 
ity as stronger and more satis factor}’' than that from 
miracles; it is another thing to reject all miracles as 
incredible anil absurd. He who takes the former 
course may show an eminently Christian spirit, and 
for ourselves we cordially sympathize with hi.s posi- 
tion ; hut he who takes the latter course, if not an in- 
fidel himself, is certainly plin r ing into tho hands of 
infidels and atheists.” 

One of the chief forms taken by recent Christian 
apologetics is the argument drawn from the actual 


EYIL-MEKODACH 


EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY 381 


phenomena of Christianity, the existing facts which no- 
body can deny. The first of these is the character of 
Christ , which has been so described by rationalistic 
and infidel writers (e. g. Strauss, Renan, Sclienkel) as 
to bring the argument down almost, if not quite, to 
the point whether Jesus were an impostor or no. The 
replies to these attacks within the last twenty years 
have brought with greater force than ever the eternal 
light of evidence which the person and life of the Re- 
deemer contain in favor of the whole system of Chris- 
tianity. See the works on this subject of Neander, 
Lange, SchafF, Pressense, Ellicott, Young, Plmnptre, 
and others. Dr. SchafF sums up the result of a study 
of Christ in one strong passage: “Jesus of Nazareth 
is the one absolute and unaccountable exception to the 
universal experience of mankind. He is the great 
central miracle of the whole Gospel history; and all 
his miracles are but the natural and necessary mani- 
festations of his miraculous person, performed with 
the same ease with which we perforin our ordinary 
daily works.” The second of these phenomena is 
found in the boohs of the Xeio Testament themselves, as 
atfording abundant internal evidence of reality and 
truthfulness. The third is the specific Christian doc- 
trine, which can be traced up (through the Epistles to 
the Thessalonians, Corinthians, Romans, and Gala- 
tians, the genuineness and early date of which are ad- 
mitted even by the Tubingen school) to within thirty 
years after the death of Christ. (See an excellent arti- 
cle on the Unexhausted Resources of Christian Evide nce, 
by Prof. Lorimer, in B. and F. Ev. Review, Jan. 1805, 
reprinted in The Theolog. Eclectic, New Ilaven, iii, 30 
sq.) Dr. II. Schmidt, of Meiningen, taking the Tii- 
bingen critics at their word, undertakes to find in the 
four unquestioned epistles (Galatians, 1st and 2d Co- 
rinthians, and Romans) a full vindication of the truth 
and divine origin of Christianity. See his Der Pauli- 
nische Christus (Weimar, 1807, Svo). 

The comparison of Christianity with heathen religions 
is opening a new and rich mine of Christian evidences. 
The science of “Comparative Religion,” so called, is 
yet in its infancy, but all contributions to it only tend 
to bring out the argument for the divine origin of 
Christianity into clearer relief. See Maurice, Relig- 
ions of the World (184G, 12mo) ; Pressense, Religions be- 
fore Christ (18GG, 8vo); Muller, Chips from a German 
Workshop (18G7, 2 vols, 12mo); Hardwick, Christ and 
other Masters (Loud. 2d ed., 18G3, 2 vols. 12mo); and 
an article by Caldwell, Bapt. Quart. Rev. Oct. 18G8. | 

The question of the origin and dates of the several 
gospels is treated under the separate articles Matthew, 
Mark, Luke, and John. The Tubingen school, and j 
the modern critics who follow them, put the dates for- 
ward into the second century. See Tubingen School. 
On the questions involved, see Fisher, Essays , already 
cited ; Westcott, On the Canon of the N. T. (Cambridge, 
1855); Tischendorf, Wann warden imsere Evcmgelien 
verfasst (Leipsig, 18G5 ; transl. by W. L. Gage, under 
the title Origin of the four Gospels , Loud. 18G8 ; Amer. 
Tract Society, 18G8). 

Literature. — For a pretty copious account of the lit- 
erature of the subject, see Apologetics; Apology. 
We add here the following: Translation of Luthardt’s 
Apol.Vortrdge (noticed in vol.i, p. 305), entitled Apol- 
ogetic Lectures on the fundamental Truths of Christian- 
ity (18G7, crown Svo) ; and Anberlen’s OJfenbarimg (see 
our vol. i, p. 301), entitled The Divine Revelation (Ed- 
inburgh, 18G7) ; Norton’s Genuineness of the Gospels , 
abridged edit. (Boston, 18G7, 12mo); Barnes, Lectures 
on the Evidences of Christianity in the Nineteenth Cen- 
iury (New York, 18G8, 12ino); M‘Cosli, The Supernat- 
ural in its Relations to the Natural ; Westcott, Introduc- 
tion to the Study of the Gospels (Boston, 18G7), chop, iii ; 
SehafF, Person of Christ (Am. Tract Society); Plump- 
tre, Christ and Christendom (Loud. 1867, 8vo) ; Gratry, 
Les Sophistes et la Critique (Paris, 18G4, 8vo) ; Pnnee- 
ton Review , April, 1852, art. vi ; Bartlett on “Christi- 


anity and prominent Forms of Assault,” in Bibliotheca 
Sacra , January, 18G8 ; Brit, and For. Evang. Review , 
July, 18G8, art. vi. See Apologetics; Apology; 
Inspiration; Jesus; Miracles. 

Evil is discord or disturbance in the order of the 
universe. Leibnitz divides it into metaphysical evil, 
i. e. imperfection ; physical evil, i. e. suffering ; moral 
evil, i. e. sin. Origen defined evil to be the negation 
of good ; and in this he has been followed by many 
Christian thinkers. The distinction into natural and 
moral evil is the only one now generally recognised. 
1. “Natural evil is whatever destroys or any way dis- 
turbs the perfection of natural beings, such as blind- 
ness, diseases, death, etc. But as all that we call nat- 
ural evil is not the penalty of sin, nor, as some have 
supposed, only the penalty of it, such disturbance is not 
necessarily an evil, inasmuch as it may be counter- 
poised, in the whole, with an equal if not greater good, 
as in the afflictions and sufferings of good men. When 
such disturbance occurs as the penalty of transgres- 
sion, it is the necessary consequence of moral evil.” 
The tendency of modern thought is towards the doc- 
trine that the (apparent) disturbances of the physical 
world are likely to be reconciled with universal law 
as science advances. 2. “ Moral evil is the disagree- 
ment between the actions of a moral agent and the 
rule of those actions, whatever it be. Applied to choice, 
or acting contrary to the revealed law of God, it is 
termed wickedness or sin. Applied to an act contrary 
to a mere rule of fitness, it is called a fault'' 1 (Buck, 
8. V.). 

On the origin of evil, and its relations to the gov- 
ernment of God, see Sin ; Theodicy. 

E'vil-mer'odach (Heb. Evil' Merodak ', 

; Sept. E viaXpapiodsK, OuXaipaddxap), son and 
successor of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, who, 
on his accession to the throne (B.C. 5G1), released the 
captive king of Judah, Jeboiaehin, from prison, after 
37 years of incarceration, treated him with kindness 
and distinction, and set his throne above the other con- 
quered kings who were detained at Babylon (2 Kings 
xxv, 27; Jer. Iii, 31-34). See Ciiald.ean. A Jew- 
ish tradition (noticed by Jerome on Isa.xiv, 29) ascribes 
this kindness to a personal friendship which Evil-mer- 
odach had contracted with the Jewish king when he 
was himself consigned to prison by Nebuchadnezzar, 
who, on recovering from his seven years’ monomania, 
took offence at some part of the conduct of his son, by 
whom the government had in the mean time been ad- 
ministered. This story was probably invented to ac- 
count for the fact. His name is variously written by 
other ancient authors ( EveiXpapdcovKog ; by Berosus, in 
Josephus, Apion, i, 20; ILviXpaXovpovxog by Megas- 
thenes and Ab} T denns, in Euseb. Chron. Armen, p. 28; 
’AfliXpapibcaxog by Josephus, Ant. x, 11, 2). Hales 
identifies him with the king of Babylon who formed a 
powerful confederacy against the Medes, which was 
broken up, and the king slain by Cyrus, then acting 
for his uncle Cyaxares. But this rests on the author- 
ity of Xenophon’s Cyropcedia, the historical value of 
which he estimates far too liighl}^. See Cyrus. He 
is doubtless the same as the Ilvoradam of Ptolemy’s 
“Canon,” who reigned but a short time, having 
ascended the throne on the death of Nebuchadnezzar 
in B.C. 5G1, and being himself succeeded by Neriglis- 
sar in B.C. 559. See Babylon, lie thus appears to 
have reigned hut two years, which is the time assign- 
ed to him by Abydenus (Fr. 9) and Berosus (Fr. 14). 
At the end of this brief space Evil-merodach was 
murdered by Neriglissar [see Nergal-siiarezer], 
a Babylonian noble married to his sister, who then 
seized the erown. The other aneient authorities as- 
sign him different lengths of reign. According to 
Berosus, Evil-merodach provoked his fate by lawless 
government and intemperance. Perhaps the depar- 
ture' from the policy of his father, and the substitution 


EWER 


382 


EVIL-SPEAKING 

of inild for severe measures, may have been viewed in 
this light. 

The latter half of the name Evil-merodach is that 
of a Babylonian god Merodacii (q. v.). Two modes 
of explaining the former part of it have been attempt- 
ed. Since evil, as a Hebrew word, means “foolish,” 
Simonis proposes to consider it the derivative of , 
in tiie Arabic signification of “to be first,” affording 
the sense of “prince of Merodacii.” This rests on the 
assumption that the Babylonian language was of Svro- 
Arabian origin. Geseuius, on the other hand, who 
does not admit that origin, believes that some Indo- 
Germanic word, of similar sound, but reputable sense, 
is concealed under evil, and that the Hebrew's made 
some slight perversion in its form to produce a word 
of contemptuous signification in Hebrew, just as is as- 
sumed in the case of Beelzebub — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, 
s. v. 

Evil-speaking, “the using language either re- 
proachful or untrue respecting others, and thereby in- 
juring them. It is an express command of Scripture 
‘to speak evil of no man’ (Titus iii, 2; James iv, 11); 
by which, however, we are not to understand that 
there are no occasions on which w'e are at liberty to 
speak of others that which may be considered as evil. 
1. Persons in the administration of justice may speak 
words which in private intercourse would be reproach- 
ful. 2. God’s ministers may inveigh against vice with 
sharpness and severity, both privately and publicly 
(Isa. lviii, 1 ; Titus i, 13). 3. Private persons may re- 

prove others when they commit sin (Lev. xix, 17). 4. 
Some vehemence of speech may be used in defence of 
truth and impugning errors of had consequence (Jude 
iii). 5. It may be necessary, upon some important oc- 
casions, with some heat of language, to express disap- 
probation of notorious wickedness (Acts viii, 23). Yet 
in all these the greatest equity, moderation, and can- 
dor should be used; and w’e should take care, 1. Never 
to speak in severe terms without reasonable w’arrant 
or apparent just cause. 2. Nor beyond measure. 3. 
Nor out of bad principles or w rong ends ; from ill will, 
contempt, revenge, envy, to compass our own ends ; 
from wantonness or negligence, but from pure charity 
for the good of those to whom or of whom w r e speak. 
This is an evil, however, which greatly abounds, and 
which is not sufficiently watched against; for it is not 
when we openly speak evil of others only that we are 
guilty, but even in speaking what is true we are in 
danger of speaking evil of others. There is sometimes 
a malignant pleasure manifested: a studious recollec- 
tion of everything that can be brought forward ; a de- 
light in hearing anything spoken against others ; a se- 
cret rejoicing in knowing that another's fall will be an 
occasion of our rise. All this is base to an extreme. 
The impropriety and sinfulness of evil-speaking will 
appear if w r e consider, 1. That it is entirely opposite 
to the whole tenor of the Christian religion. 2. Ex- 
pressly condemned and prohibited as evil (Psa. lxiv, 
3; James iv, 11). 3. No practice hath more severe 

punishments denounced against it (1 Cor. v, 11 ; vi, 
10). 4. It is ail evidence of a weak and distempered 

mind. 5. It is even indicative of ill breeding and bad 
manners. G. It is the abhorrence of all wise and good 
men (Psa. xv, 3). 7. It is exceedingly injurious to so- 

ciety, and inconsistent with the relation w’e hear to 
each other as Christians (James iii, G). 8. It is brand- 

ed with the epithet of folly (Prov. xviii, G, 7). 9. It is 
perverting the design of speech. 10. It is opposite to 
the example of Christ, whom we profess to follow’. 
Sec Slander.’’ (Barrow, Horfof, vol. i, serin, xvi: 
Tillotson, Sermons, serin, xlii; Jack, Sermons on Evil 
Speaking; Seed, Sermons, i, 339; Campbell, Disserta- 
tions, diss. iii, § 22.) — Buck, Theol. Dictionary, s. v. 

Evodius, a Latin theologian, was horn about the 
middle of the fourth century, at Tagaste, in Africa. 
He was a countryman of St. Augustine, and was united 


with him in an intimate and lifelong friendship. Af- 
ter following in his youth a secular profession, he be- 
came, in 39G or 397, bishop of Uzalis. Augustine as- 
serts that while there lie performed several miracles 
by means of the relics of St. Stephen, wdiich Orosius, 
in 416, had brought from Palestine. Evodius took an 
active part in the controversy, against the Donatists 
and Pelagians, and in 427 wrote on this subject a let- 
ter to the monks of Adrumetum. He died about 430, 
We have from him four letters to St. Augustine (1 GO, 
1G1, 1G3, and 177 in the edition of the Benedictines) ; 
a letter addressed by him, conjointl}’ with four other 
bishops, to bishop Innocent I, of Rome (published in 
vol. vi of the Benedictine edit, of the works of Augus- 
tine); fragments of a letter to the monks of Adiume- 
tum (joined to the letter 21G of St. Augustine). His 
treatise on the miracles performed by the relics of St. 
Stephen is lost ; for the Libri dvo de Miracnlis S. Ste - 
phani, appended to Augustine’s De Civitate Dei (in 
vol. vii of his works), cannot he attributed to him. A 
treatise De Fide , or De Vnitate Trinitatis contra Mani- 
chceos, is by some likewise ascribed to Evodius. — Hoe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Gin. xvi, 842. (A. J. S.) 

Ewald, Joiiann Ludw’tg, theologian, was born at 
Dreieichenhain, Hesse, September 1G, 1747. He stud- 
ied at the University of Marburg. After serving two 
years as tutor to the children of the prince of Hesse- 
Philippsthal, lie became pastor at Offenbach, 17G8. He 
began preaching as a Rationalist, but in a few’ years he 
found reason alone inadequate for his personal guid- 
ance and for his public teaching. In 1778 he an- 
nounced publicly 7 ' this change of conviction. In 1781 
he became general superintendent and court preacher 
at Detinold ; but his pungent preaching soon got him 
into trouble. He founded at Detmold a seminary for 
teachers. In 179G he accepted a pastoral charge at 
Bremen ; and here, also, he greatly promoted the 
schools, visiting the establishments of Pestalozzi and 
Fellenberg, in Switzerland, to inform himself on their 
systems. In 1805 lie was called to Heidelberg as 
professor of ethics, and in 1807 became church coun- 
cillor at Carlsruhe, where he died, March 19, 1822. 
He w’as a voluminous author. Doering gives a list of 
eighty-nine different publications of his. The chief 
are, Predigcrbeschaftigiing (Lemgo, 1783 94, 9 parts) : — 
Christenthum und KosmopoUtismus (Lemgo, 1788-89, 2 
vols. Svo) : — Snlomo; Versuch eincr psychologisch-bio- 
graphischen Darstellung (Gera, 1800, Svo) : — Die Gott- 
lichkeit d. Christenthums ( Brem.18‘00, Svo): — Briefe iiber 
die alte J\fystik u. d. neiten Mysticismns (Leipsig, 1822, 
Svo); besides numerous sermons and books on practi- 
cal religion and education. — Doering, Die deuischen 
Kanzel-Jledner , i, 4G. 

Ewe stands in the Anth.Vers. as the representa- 
tive of the follow ing Ileb. words : PPH (packet, fern.), 
a 11 ewe” (Gen. xxxi, 38; xxxii, 14) or gener- 

ally (Cant, vi, 6; Isa. liii, 7); ITJ (sell, masc. Exod. 
xii, 5; fern. Jer. 1, 17 ; Ezek. xxxiv, 20), a sheep or 
goat from a flock generally, variously rendered (“cat- 
tle,” “sheep,” “goat,” “ewe”); ilil'23 ( kibsali ) or 
iTw23 (kabsnlt, fern., so called from being fit for coup- 
ling'), a “ cav-lamb,” i. e. from one to three years old 
(Gen. xxi, 28, 29, 30; Lev. xiv, 10; Num. vi, 14; 2 
Sam. xii, 3,4, G) ; Tibi* (cdoifi , milk-giving , fem. plur.), 
milch (“ [ewes] with young,” Psa. lxxviii, 71 ; Isa. xl, 
11). See Sheep, etc. 

Ewer, or pitcher (q. v.) accompanying a wash-hand 
basin (q. v.). It is stated as a description of Elisha (2 
Kings iii, 11) that he “ poured mater on the hands of 
Elijah This was the act of an attendant or disci- 
ple ; and it w’as so much his established duty, that the 
mere mention of it sufficed to indicate the relation in 
which Elisha had stood to Elijah. It is also an indi- 
[ cation that the Hebrews were accustomed to w’ash their 


EWING 


383 


EWING 



Oriental Ewer and Babin. 


hands in the manner which is now universal in the 
East, and which, whatever may be thought of its con- 
venience, is unquestionably more refreshing and clean- 
ly than washing in the water as it stands in a basin, 
which is a process regarded by the Orientals with great 
dislike. The hands are therefore held over a basin, 
the use of which is only to receive the water which 
lias been poured upon the hands, sometimes of several 
persons successively, from the jug or ewer held above 
them (Lane, Modern Egyptians, i, 212). A servant or 
some other person approaches with the ewer in his 
right hand and the basin in his left; and when the 
hands have been placed in proper position over the ba- 
sin, which he continues to hold, lets fall a stream of 
water upon them from the ewer, suspending it occa- 
sionally to allow the hands to be soaped or rubbed to- 
gether. No towel is offered, as ever}' one dries his 
hands in bis handkerchief, or however else lie pleases. 
The water is usually tepid, and always so after a meal, 
in order to clear the grease contracted by eating with 
the bands. In the East, the basin, which, as well as 
the ewer, is usually of tinned copper, has commonly a 
sort of cover, rising in 
the middle and sunk into 
the basin at the mar- 
gin, which, being pierced 
with holes, allows the 
water to pass through, 
thus concealing it after 
it has been defiled by 
use. The ewer has a 
long spout, and a long, 
narrow neck, with a cov- 
er, and is altogether not 
unlike our coffee-pots in general appearance : it is the 
same which the Orientals use in all their ablutions. 
It is evident that a person cannot conveniently thus 
wash his own hands without assistance. If he does, 
he is obliged to fix the basin, and to take up and lay 
down the ewer several times, changing it from one 
hand to the other. Therefore a person never does so 
except when alone. If he has no servant, lie asks 
some by-stander to pour the water upon his hands, and 
offers a return of the obligation, if it seems to be re- 
quired (Kitto, Piet. Bible , note ad loc.). See Wash- 
ing of Hands. 

Ewing, Finis, one of the founders of the Cum- 
berland Presbyterian Church, was born July 10, 1773, 
in P>edford Count}', Ya. His father was of Scotch- 
Irish descent, ami both his parents were eminent for 
their piety, the father for many years being an elder 
in the Presbyterian Church. Mr. Ewing had but lit- 
tle early education. He spent some time in college, 
but where is not known. 1 T is biographer says, “Like 
Franklin, he seems very early to have acquired a fond- 
ness for books. ITis varied and extensive reading 
made him emphatically a learned man, though not 
systematically educated, and the brilliancy of his suc- 
cess as a minister of the GoSpel evinced intellectual 
endowments of a high order.” His parents having 
died in Virginia, the surviving family moved to what 
was called the “Cumberland Country,” and settled in 
Davidson County, Tennessee, near Nashville. On 
Jan. 15, 1733, he married the daughter of general Wil- 
liam Davidson, of North Carolina. The county was 
named from him (Davidson), in honor of his many val- 
uable services during the war of the devolution. Here 
Mr. Ewing and his wife united with Rev. Dr. Craig- 
head’s church, and lived in its communion some years 
before either of them knew anything about experi- 
mental religion. After the birth of their first child 
(but at what time is not known) Mr. Ewing removed 
to Kentucky, and settled in what was afterwards Lo- 
gan County, near lied Iiiver Church, of which liev. 
James M‘G ready was pastor. In the great revival 
of 1800, which swept over all the Western States, and 
out of. which originated the Cumberland Presbyte- 


rian Church, Mr. Ewing heard for the first time in 
his life the doctrines of regeneration and personal holi- 
ness insisted upon from the pulpit, lie became sat- 
isfied that he had not a saving knowledge of the truth, 
and communicated his feelings to his wife, whom he 
found in a similar state of mind. After many pray- 
ers and tears, while engaged in family worship, he 
“became filled with joy and peace in believing.” 
Some time after this (the precise period is not known) 
he told his impressions to preach the Gospel to Tran- 
sylvania Presbytery, which body, at the advice of 
liev. David Rice, D.D., one of the oldest ministers 
in the presbytery, licensed Mr. Ewing and three oth- 
ers to exhort. Ilis success was wonderful; scores 
of sinners were converted wherever he went. His 
talents, piety, commanding language, and zeal carried 
everything Lcfore them. He was soon licensed to 
preach as a probationer, but the prevailing party in 
the presbytery opposed his licensure. He went on 
preaching very successfully, however, revival attend- 
ing his labors wherever he travelled. 11 is labor was 
so much called for, and so marked with success, that 
at the urgent call of several congregations he was or- 
dained, in November, 1803, to the work of the minis- 
try. The revival went on with unabated power for 
several years ; in the mean time Kentucky Synod had 
pretended to dissolve Cumberland Presbytery, which 
bad ordained liim, because of alleged irregularities. 
The presbytery remained for four years not attempt- 
ing to exercise its functions as a presbytery; after 
which, failing to secure a redress of their grievances 
from the General Assembly, they determined to or- 
ganize again, even contrary to the wishes of a major- 
ity of Kentucky Synod. On February 4, 1810, Mr. 
Ewing and two other ordained ministers united and 
formed the first presbytery of the new Cumberland 
Presbyterian Church, giving it the name of the pres- 
bytery Kentucky Synod had dissolved, viz. Cumber- 
land Presbytery ; hence the name “Cumberland Pres- 
byterians.” Mr. Ewing removed after some years to 
Todd County, Ky., and became pastor of Lebanon 
congregation, near Ewingsville. Here under liis eye 
was sustained for many years a flourishing classical’ 
seminary of learning. In 1820, at the urgent call of 
many friends and brethren, he removed to the State 
of Missouri, and settled in what is now Cooper Coun- 
ty. It was not long until he built up a large con- 
gregation at New Lebanon, which still flourishes. 
Here he prepared and published his Lectures on Birin - 
ity, which have been extensively circulated and read, 
and which contain the germ of the peculiarities of 
Cumberland Presbyterians. He labored here with 
great acceptance and success until 183G, when lie re- 
moved to tlic town of Lexington, Lafayette County, 
Mo. Here lie soon gathered a congregation, built a 
church, and, with others, was the means of extending 
the work of grace all over the vast incoming territo- 
ries of the West. Mr. Ewing died here July 4, 1841, 
in his 68th year. He was tall, portly in appearance, 
had a keen, penetrating eye, always bore a dignified 
look, was a man of extraordinary pulpit talents, and 
of great success among all classes in winning souls to 
the Redeemer. In our troubles with Great Britain in 
1812 lie did not hesitate to give all the weight of his 
great influence in favor of his country. He was no 
politician, yet at one time, being an intimate friend 
and acquaintance of general Jackson, he was by him 
appointed register of the land office at Lexington, Mo. 
He died lamented by a large and growing denomina- 
tion, and by many others, as a great and good man. 
II is remains rest in the cemetery at Lexington, Mo. 
(J. B. L.) 

Ewing, John, D.D„, a Presbyterian minister, and 
provost of the University of Pennsylvania, was born 
in Nottingham, Cecil County, Md., June 22, 1732, and 
graduated in 1754 in New Jersey College, of which he 
remained tutor for two years. Having completed his 


EXACTIONS 


384 


EXCHANGER 


theological course, he was ordained, became instructor 
in the College of Philadelphia, and was installed pas- 
tor of the tirst Presbyterian church, Philadelphia, in 
1759. He visited England and Scotland in 1773 in 
behalf of the academy in Newark, Del., and returned 
in 1775 to the duties of his ministry. In 1779 he was 
appointed provost of the University of Pennsylvania, 
and professor of natural philosophy, in which science 
he delivered annually a course of learned lectures. In 
this station, united with that of pastor, he continued 
to the end oflife. He was also one of the vice-presi- 
dents of the American Philosophical Society. He died 
Sept. 8, 1802. He published Lectures on Natural Phi- 
losophy (2 vols. 8vo), and Sermons (8vo) — Sprague, 
Annals , iii, 21G. 

Exactions (Lat. exactiones , talue ), the name given 
in ecclesiastical law to taxes of an extraordinary kind, 
which either were not in use before, or the rate of 
which has been increased. As a general ride, taxes 
of this kind are forbidden. Thus the third Council of 
Toledo prohibited the bishops from “imposing exac- 
tions upon the diocese,” and Leo IV designates as un- 
lawful exactions any “gifts beyond the statutes of the 
fathers” that bishops may impose upon clergymen or 
laymen. The prohibition was renewed at the Council 
of Lateran in 1179 by Alexander I IT, who “prohibited 
bishops or abbots, or any other prelates, from impos- 
ing new taxes upon the churches, or from increasing 
the old ones, or from appropriating for their private 
uses any portion of the revenue.” The imposition of 
exactions requires a reasonable cause, and limitation 
to what is necessary. State churches cannot impose 
an exaction without previously obtaining the permis- 
sion of the state government. — Herzog, Real-Eneyklop . 
iv, 280. (A. J. S.) 

Exactor, the rendering (Isa. lx, 17) of U5!U, noges', 
c, driver (task-master, Exod. iii, 7 ; Job iii, 18 ; Isa. ix, 
3; or simply driver of animals, Job xxxix, 7) ; hence 
exactor of a debt (or tribute, Dan. xi, 20 ; Zech. ix, 8); 
hence (in accordance with Oriental ideas and customs) 
a ruler , king, tyrant (Isa. iii, 12; xiv, 2; Zech. x, 4), 
as the parallel term “ prince” in the above passage of 
Isaiah shows to be there the meaning. 

Exaltation of Christ (status exaftationis ), a the- 
ological phrase, including in its scope the resurrection 
of Christ, his ascension into heaven, his sitting at the 
right hand of God the Father, and his coming to judge 
the world at the last day. See articles on these heads ; 
also Christology (vol. ii, p. 281) ; and llagenbach, 
History of Doctriues , Smith’s ed., ii, 352. 

Exaltation of the Cross. See Cross, Exal- 
tation of tiie, vol. ii, p. 581. 

Example (vtlypa, Jude 7), especially Christ’s 
(inroypappa, 1 Pet. ii, 21) for the imitation of his fol- 
lowers (i'Troitiypa, John xiii, 15; elsewhere in other 
relations, Ileb. iv, 11; vi ii, 5; ix, 23; Jas. v, 10; 2 
Fet. ii, 6), and subordinately pastors for their flock 
(r/'-oc, Phil, iii, 17; 2 Thess. iii, 9; 1 Tim. iv, 12; 1 
IVt. v, 3, etc.). See Flatt, Das Deispiel Jcsu (in the 
Maynz. far chr. Dogmat. i, 179 sq.) ; Keil, De Exem- 
plo Christi (Lips. 1792 ; Opusc. i, 100-135) ; Oedcr, De 
Christi imitatioiie. (in his Obss. sacr. i, 33-56); Schmid, 
Deperrerso Christi imitationc (Lips. 1710); Stober, De 
exemplar tun imifatione (Argent. 1771-6); Wolf, De ex- 
empt is caute adhibendis (Lips. 1785-6); Ketnpis, Imita- 
tion of Christ (often published). 

Example, “a copy or pattern, in a moral sense, 
is either taken for a type, instance, or precedent for 
our admonition, that we may he cautioned against the 
faults or crimes which others have committed, by the 
had consequences which have ensued from them ; or 
example is taken for a pattern for our imitation, or a 
model for us to copy after. - That good examples have 
a peculiar power above naked precepts to dispose us to 
the practice of virtue and holiness may appear by con- 


sidering, ‘1. That they most clearly express to us the 
nature of our duties in their subjects and sensible ef- 
fects. General precepts form abstract ideas of virtue, 
but in examples, virtues are most visible in all their 
circumstances. 2. Precepts instruct us in what things 
arc our duty, but examples assure us that they are 
possible. 3. Examples, by secret and lively incentive, 
urge us to imitation. We are touched in another man- 
ner by the visible practice of good men, which re- 
proaches our defects, and obliges us to the same zeal, 
which laws, though wise and good, will not effect.’ 
The life of Jesus Christ forms the most beautiful ex- 
ample the Christian can imitate. Unlike all others, it 
was absolutely perfect and uniform, and every way ac- 
commodated to our present state. In him we behold 
all light without a shade, all beaut}’ without a spot, all 
the purity of the law and the excellency of the Gos- 
pel. Here we see piety without superstition, and mo- 
rality without ostentation ; humility without mean- 
ness, and fortitude without temerity ; patience with- 
out apathy, and compassion without weakness; zeal 
without rashness, and beneficence without prodigality. 
The obligation we are under to imitate this example 
arises from duty, relationship, engagement, interest, 
and gratitude. See art. Jesus Christ. Those who 
set bad examples should consider, 1. That they are the 
ministers of the devil’s designs to destroy souls. 2. 
That they arc acting in direct opposition to Christ, 
who came to save and not to destroy. 3. That they 
are adding to the misery and calamities which are al- 
ready in the world. 4. That the effects of their ex- 
ample may he incalculable on society to the end of 
time, and perhaps in eternity; for who can tell what 
may be the consequence of one sin on a family, a na- 
tion, or posterity? 5. They are acting contrary to the 
divine command, and thus exposing themselves to final 
ruin” (Tillotson, Sermons , ser. clxxxix, cxc; Barrow, 
lUor&s, vol. iii, ser. ii and iii ; Flavel, lUor/tS, i, 29, 30; 
Dwight, Theology , ser. liv ; Christ our Example , by Car- 
oline Fry). — Buck, Theological Dictionary , s. v. 

Exarch (t&rpyoc), (1.) the title given, under the 
Byzantine emperors, to their viceroys in Italy and 
Africa, after Justinian’s rcconqucst of those provinces. 

(2.) The title was adopted in the early Church for the 
highest orders of the hierarchy. Primates or metro- 
politans were styled i^apxoi rtjg eTrapfutc, and the pa- 
triarchs were called t£ap\ oi ri}g ciotia'jGciog, In the 
6th canon of Sardica (A. I). 344) the former title (ex- 
arch of the eparchy) is given to primates; the third 
Council of Carthage, A.D. 397, forbade its use (Riddle, 
Antiquities , bk. iii, cli. iii). The exarch , as primate, 
was “inferior to the patriarch, and superior to the 
metropolitan. In the third century there were three 
exarchs, viz. Ephesus, with the diocese of Asia, 12 
j provinces and 300 sees ; Hcraclca, with the diocese of 
Thrace, and 6 provinces ; Caesarea, 13 provinces and 
104 secs. The privileges of these exarchates were 
transferred l>y the Council of Chalcedon (A.D. 451) to 
the patriarch of Constantinople” (V/alcot, Sacred Ar- 
cheology. p. 268). 

(3.) The exarch in the Greek Church at the present 
day is the patriarch’s deputy, whose duty it is to visit 
the provinces under his inspection, to inform himself as 
to the lives and morals of the clergy ; to take cognizance 
of ecclesiastical causes — the manner of celebrating di- 
vine ordinances, the sacraments, particularly confes-' 
sion, the observance of the canons, monastic discipline, 
affairs of marriages, divorces, etc.; but, above all, to 
take account of the revenues which the patriarch re- 
ceives from the several churches. — Bingham, Orig. Ec - 
cles. Bohn’s cd. i, 61, 67. 

Exchanger ( TpaTriZinic , so called from the table 
used for holding the coin [sec Changer of Money]), 
a broker or banker (i. e. 5cwr^-man) [see Bank], one 
who exchanged money, and also received money on 
I deposit at interest, in order to loan it out to others at a 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


385 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


higher rate (Matt, xxv, 27). (See Smith’s Diet . of 
Class. Ant. s. v. Mensarii.) See Money-changer; 
Loan. 

Excommunication, the judicial exclusion of of- 
fenders from tlic religious rites and privileges of the 
particular community to which they belong. It is a 
power founded upon a right inherent in all religious 
societies, and is analogous to the powers of capital 
punishment, banishment, and exclusion from member- 
ship which are exercised b}" political and municipal 
bodies. If Christianity is merely a philosophical idea 
thrown into the world to do battle with other theories, 
and to be valued according as it maintains its ground 
or not in the conflict of opinions, excommunication, 
and ecclesiastical punishments and discipline are un- 
reasonable. If a society has been instituted for main- 
taining any body of doctrine and any code of morals, 
they are necessary to the existence of that socict 3 r . 
That the Christian Church is an organized polity', a 
spiritual “kingdom of God” on earth, is the declara- 
tion of the Bible; and that the Jewish Church was at 
once a spiritual and a temporal organization is clear. 
Among the Jews, however, excommunication was not 
only an ecclesiastical, but also a civil punishment, be- 
cause in their theocracy there was no distinction be- 
tween the divine and the statutory right (Exod. xxxi, 
14; Ezra x, 3, 11 ; Neh. xiii, 28). But among Chris- 
tians excommunication was strictly confined to eccle- 
siastical relations, as the situation and constitution of 
the Church during the first three centuries admitted of 
no intermingling or confounding of civil and religious 
privileges or penalties. Excommunication, in the 
Christian Church, consisted at first simply in exclu- 
sion from the communion of the Lord’s Supper and the 
love-feasts : “ with such a one, no, not to eat” (1 Cor. 
v, 11). It might also include a total separation from 
the body of the faithful ; and such a person was, with 
regard to the Church, “as a heathen man and a pub- 
lican.” But this excision did not exempt him from 
any duties to which he was liable in civil life, neither 
did it withhold from him any natural obligations, such 
as are founded on nature, humanity, and the law of 
nations (Matt, xviii, 17 ; 1 Cor. v, 5, 11 ; x, 1G-18 ; 2 
Thess. iii, G, 14 ; 2 John 10, 11). See Church. 

I. Jewish. — The Jewish system of excommunication 
was threefold. For a first offence a delinquent was 
subjected to the penalty of ( niddui ). Ha in bam 

(quoted by Lightfoot, Hone Hebraica?, on 1 Cor. v, 5), 
Morinus (De Panitentia , iv, 27), and Buxtorf ( Lexicon 
Talm. col. 1303 sq.) enumerate the twenty-four offences 
for which it was inflicted. They are various, and 
range in heinousness from the offence of keeping a 
fierce dog to that of taking God’s name in vain. Else- 
where (Talm. Bab. Mocd Katon , fol. 16, 1) the causes 
of its infliction arc reduced to two, termed money and 
epicurism, by which is meant debt and wanton inso- 
lence. The offender was first cited to appear in court, 
and if lie refused to appear cr to make amends, his 
sentence was pronounced — “Let M. or N. be under 
excommunication.” The excommunicated person was 
prohibited the use of the bath, or of the razor, or of 
the convivial table ; and all who bad to do with him 
were commanded to keep him at four cubits’ distance. 
He was allowed to go to the Temple, but not to make 
the circuit in the ordinary manner. The term of this 
punishment was thirty days, and it was extended to a 
second and to a third thirty days when necessary. If 
at the end of that time the offender was still contuma- 
cious, he was subjected to the second excommunication 
termed ( cherem ), a word meaning something de- 

voted to God (Lev. xxvii, 21, 28 ; Exod. xxii, 20 [19]; 
Num. xviii, 14). Severer penalties were now attached. 
The offender was not allowed to teach or to be taught 
in company with others, to hire or to be hired, nor to 
perform any commercial transactions beyond purchas- 
ing the necessaries of life. The sentence was dcliver- 
III.— B c 


ed by a court of ten, and was accompanied by a solemn 
malediction, for which authority was supposed to be 
found in the “ Curse ye Meroz” of Judg. v, 23. Last- 
ly followed ( shammdthd ), which was an entire 

cutting off from the congregation. It has been sup- 
posed by some that these two latter forms of excom- 
munication were undistinguishable from each other. 
See Ban. 

The punishment of excommunication is not appoint- 
ed by the law of Moses. It is founded on the natural 
right of self-protection which all societies enjoy. The 
case of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram (Num. xvi), the 
curse denounced on Meroz (Judg. v, 23), the commis- 
sion and proclamation of Ezra (vii, 2G ; x, 8), and the 
reformation of Nehemiah (xiii, 25), are appealed to b} r 
the Talmudists as precedents by which their proceed- 
ings are regulated. In respect to the principle in- 
volved, the “cutting oft’ from the people” commanded 
for certain sins (Exod. xxx, 33, 38; xxxi, 14; Lcv.xvii, 
4), and the exclusion from the camp denounced on the 
leprous (Lev. xiii, 4G ; Num. xii, 14), arc more apposite. 

In the New Testament, Jewish excommunication 
is brought prominently before us in the case of the 
man that was bom blind and restored to sight (John 
ix). “ The Jews had agreed already that if any man 
did confess that he "was Christ, he should be put out 
of the synagogue. Therefore said his parents, lie is 
of age, ask him” (ver. 22, 23). “And they cast him 
out. Jesus heard that they had cast him out” (ver. 34, 
35). The expressions here used, cnzoGvvdyioyQQ ykvi]- 
rai — i%£j3a\ov avrov refer, no doubt, to the first 

form of excommunication, or niddui. Our Lord warns 
his disciples that they •will have to suffer excommuni- 
cation at the hands of their countrymen (John xvi, 2), 
and the fear of it is described as sufficient to prevent 
persons in a respectable position from acknowledging 
their belief in Christ (John xii, 42). In Luke vi, 22, 
it has been thought that our Lord referred specifically 
to the three forms of Jewish excommunication, “ Bless- 
ed are } r e when men shall hate } r ou, and when they 
shall separate you from their company [d^OjOiuwfftu], 
and shall reproach you [r! i'£icV<7w<n>'],and cast out your 
name as evil [tK-jSdXuxjti'], for the Son of man’s sake.” 
The three words very accurately express the simple 
separation, the additional malediction, and the final 
exclusion of niddui , cherem , and shammdthd. This 
verse makes it probable that the three stages were al- 
ready formally distinguished from each other, though, 
no doubt, the words appropriate to each are occasion- 
ally used inaccurately. See the monographs in Latin 
on Jewish excommunication by Museulus (Lips. 1703), 
Opitz (Kilon. 1680). 

II. Intlie New Testament. — Excommunication in the 
New Testament is not merety founded on the natural 
right possessed b} r all societies, nor merety on the ex- 
ample of the Jewish Church and nation. It was insti- 
tuted by our Lord (Matt, xviii, 15, 18), and it was prac- 
tised b} r and commanded by Paul (1 Tim. I, 20 ; 1 Cor. 
v, 11; Tit. iii, 10). 

1. Its Institution . — The passage in Matthew has led 
to much controvers 3 r , into which we do not enter. It 
runs as follows : “ If thy brother shall trespass against 
thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him 
alone; if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy 
brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with 
thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or 
three witnesses eveiy word may be established. And 
if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the Church ; 
but if he neglect to hear the Church, let him be unto 
thee as a heathen man and a publican. Verily 1 sa 3 r 
unto 3 'ou, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be 
bound in heaven, and whatsoever } r e shall loose on 
earth shall be loosed in heaven.” Our Lord here rec- 
ognises and appoints a W'a 3 r in which a member of his 
Church is to become to his brethren as a heathen man 
and a publican, i. e. be reduced to a state analogous to 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


380 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


that of the Jew suffering the penalty of the third form 
of excommunication. It is to follow on his contempt 
of the censure of the Church passed on him for a tres- 
pass which he has committed. The filial excision is 
to be preceded, as in the case of the Jew, by two warn- 
ings. 

2. Apostolic Example . — In the Epistles we find Paul 
frequently claiming the right to exercise discipline 
over his converts (comp. 2 Cor. i, 23; xiii, 10). In two 
cases we find him exercising this authority to the ex- 
tent of cutting off offenders from the Church. One 
of these is the case of the incestuous Corinthian : “ Ye 
are puffed up, and have not rather mourned, that he 
that hath done this deed might be taken away from 
among you. For I verily, as absent in body, but pres- 
ent in spirit, have judged already, as though I were 
present, concerning him that hath so done this deed, in 
the name of onr Lord Jesus Christ, when ye are gath- 
ered together, and my spirit, with the power of our 
Lord Jesus Christ, to deliver such a one unto Satan 
for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit might be 
saved in the day of the Lord Jesus” (1 Cor. v, 2-5). 
The other case is that of llymenanis and Alexander: 
“ Holding faith and a good conscience, which some, 
having put away concerning faith, have made ship- 
wreck ; of whom is Hymenajus and Alexander, whom 
I have delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not 
to blaspheme” (1 Tim. i, 19, 20). It seems certain that 
these persons were excommunicated, the first for im- 
morality, the others for heresy. What is the full 
meaning of the expression “deliver unto Satan” is 
doubtful. All agree that excommunication is contain- 
ed in it, but whether it implies any further punishment, 
inflicted by the extraordinary powers committed spe- 
cialty to the apostles, lias been questioned. The stron- 
gest argument for the phrase meaning no more than 
excommunication may be drawn from a comparison of 
Col. i, 13. Addressing himself to the “ saints and 
faithful brethren in Christ which are at Colosse,” Paul 
exhorts them to “give thanks unto the Father, which 
hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance 
of the saints in light: who hath delivered us from the 
power of darkness, and hath translated us into the 
kingdom of his dear Son : in whom we have redemp- 
tion through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins.” 
The conception of the apostle here is of men lying in 
the realm of darkness, and transported from thence 
into the kingdom of the Son of God, which is the in- 
heritance of the saints in light, by admission into the 
Church. What he means by the power of darkness is 
abundantly clear from many other passages in his 
writings, of which it will be sufficient to quote Eph. 
vi, 12 : “Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may 
be able to stand against the wiles of the devil ; for we 
wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against princi- 
palities, against powers, against the rulers of the dark- 
ness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high 
places.” Introduction into the Church is therefore, in 
Paul’s mind, a translation from the kingdom and pow- 
er of Satan to the kingdom and government of Christ. 
This being so, he could hardly more naturally describe 
the effect of excluding a man from the Church than 
by the words “deliver him unto Satan,” the idea be- 
ing that the man ceasing to be a subject of Christ’s 
kingdom of light, was at once transported back to the 
kingdom of darkness, and delivered therefore into the 
power of its ruler, Satan. This interpretation is strong- 
ly confirmed by the terms in which Paul describes the 
commission which he received from the Lord Jesus 
Christ when he was sent to the Gentiles: “To open 
their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, 
and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may 
receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among 
them which are sanctified by faith that is in'me”(Acts 
xxvi, IS). Here again the act of being placed in 
Christ’s kingdom, the Church, is pronounced to be a 
translation from darkness to light, from the power of 


Satan unto God. Conversely, to be cast out of the 
Church would be to be removed from light to dark- 
ness, to be withdrawn from God’s government, and de- 
livered into the power of Satan (so Balsamon and Zo- 
naras, in Basil. Can. 7 ; Estius, in 1 Cor. v; Bever- 
idge, in Can. A post. x). If, however, the expression 
means more than excommunication, it would imply 
the additional exercise of a special apostolical power, 
similar to that exerted on Ananias and Sapphira (Acts 
v, 1), Simon Magus (viii, 20), and Elymas (xiii, 10). 
(So Chrysostom, Ambrose, Augustine, Hammond, Gro- 
tius, Lightfoot.) 

3. Apostolic Precept . — In addition to the claim to 
exercise discipline, and its actual exercise in the form 
of excommunication by the apostles, we find apostolic 
precepts directing that discipline should be exercised 
by the rulers of the Church, and that in some cases 
excommunication should be resorted to : “If any man 
obey not our word by this epistle, note that man, and 
have no company with him, that he may he ashamed. 
Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as 
a brother,” writes Paul to the Thessalonians (2 Tliess. 
iii, 14). To the Romans: “Mark them which cause 
divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine which 
ye have heard, and avoid them” (Rom. xvi, 17). To 
the Galatians: “ I would they were even cut off that 
trouble you” (Gal. v, 12). To Timothy : “If any man 
teach otherwise, . . . from such withdraw thyself” 
(1 Tim. vi, 3). To Titus he uses a still stronger ex- 
pression : “A man that is a heretic, after the first and 
second admonition, reject” (Tit. iii, 10). John in- 
structs the lady to whom he addresses his second epis- 
tle not to receive into her house, nor bid God speed to 
any who did not believe in Christ (2 John 10); and 
we read that in the case of Cerinthus he acted himself 
on the precept that lie had given (Eusebius, Hist. Eccl. 
iii, 28). Iu his third epistle he describes Diotrephes, 
apparently a Judaizing presbyter, “ who loved to have 
the pre-eminence,” as “ casting out of the Church,” i. 
e. refusing Church communion to the stranger breth- 
ren who were travelling about preaching to the Gen- 
tiles (3 John 10). In the addresses to the Seven 
Churches the angels or rulers of the church of Perga- 
mos and of Thyatira are rebuked for “sulfering” the 
Nicolaitans and Balaamites “to teach and to seduce 
my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things 
sacrificed unto idols” (Rev. ii, 20). There are two 
passages still more important to our subject. In the 
epistle to the Galatians, Paul denounces, “ Though we, 
or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto 
you than that which we have preached unto you, let 
him be accursed \_ara0tpa torn/]. As I said before, 
so say I now again, if any man preach any other gos- 
pel unto you than that ye have received, let him be 
accursed” (avaQtpct torw, Gal. i, 8, 9). And in the 
second epistle to the Corinthians: “ If any man love 
not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema Ma- 
ran-atha” (1 Cor. xvi, 22). It has been supposed that 
these two expressions, “let him be Anathema,” “let 
him he Anathema Maran-atha,” refer respectively to 
the two later stages of Jewish excommunication — the 
chercm and the shammdthl. This requires considera- 
tion. 

The words dvdOtpa and avaOtjua have evidently 
the same derivation, and originally they bore the same 
meaning. They express a person or thing set apart, 
laid up, or devoted. But whereas a thing may he set 
apart by way of honor or for destruction, the words, 
like the Latin “sacer” and the English “devoted,” 
came to have opposite senses — ro a 7 r)]Worpuofttvov 
Ofou, and to aQwpttrfifvov 0«,J. The Sept, and sever- 
al ecclesiastical writers use the two words almost in- 
discriminately, but in general the form dvdBppa is ap- 
plied to the votive offering (see 2 Macc. ix, 1<>; Luke 
xxi, 5; and Chrysost. Ilom. xvi in Ep. ad Bom .), and 
the form dvdBtpa to that which is devoted to evil (see 
Dent, vii, 2G; Josh, vi, 17; vii, 13). Thus Paul do 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


387 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


dares that lie could wish himself an avciQtpa from 
Christ if he could thereby save the Jews (Rom. ix, 3). 
His meaning is that he would be willing to be set apart 
as a vile thing, to be cast aside and destroyed, if only 
it could bring about the salvation of his brethren. 
Hence we see the force of dudOepa tano in Gal. i, 8. 
“Have nothing to do with him,” Mould be the apos- 
tle’s injunction, “ but let him be set apart as an evil 
thing, for God to deal with him as he thinks tit.” 
Hammond (in loc.) paraphrases it as follows: “You 
are to disclaim and renounce all communion with him, 
to look on him as on an excommunicated person, un- 
der the second degree of excommunication, that none 
is to have any commerce with in sacred things.” 
Hence it is that drdOtpa eorio came to be the common 
expression employed by councils at the termination 
of each canon which they enacted, meaning that who- 
ever was disobedient to the canon was to be separated 
from the communion of the Church and its privileges, 
and from the favor of God, until he repented (see Bing- 
ham, Ant. xvi, 2, 16). See Anathema. 

The expression ’A vdQepa gapara'Jd, as it stands by 
itself without explanation in 1 Cor. xvi, 22, is so pecu- 
liar, that it has tempted a number of ingenious exposi- 
tions. Pdrkhnrst hesitatingly derives it from 
HriX, “Cursed be tliou.” But this derivation is not 
tenable. Buxtorf, Morinus, Hammond, Bingham, and 
others identify it with the Jewish shammdthd. They 
do so by translating shammdthd , “The Lord conies.” 
But shammdthd cannot be made to mean “ The Lord 
comes” (see Lightfoot, in loc.). Several fanciful der- 
ivations are given by rabbinical writers, as “ There is 
death,” “There is desolation but there is no men- 
tion by them of such a signification as “The Lord 
comes.” Lightfoot derives it from P23'J, and it prob- 
ably means a thing excluded or shut out. Maranatha, 
however peculiar its use in the text may seem to us, 
is a Syro-Chaldaic expression, signifying “The Lord 
is come” (Chrysostom, Jerome, Estius, Lightfoot), or 
“ The Lord cometh.” If we take the former meaning, 
we may regard it as giving the reason why the of- 
fender was to be anathematized ; if the latter, it would 
either imply that the separation was to be in perpetu- 
ity, “donee Dominus redeat” (Augustine), or, more 
properly, it would be a form of solemn appeal to the 
day on which the judgment should be ratified by the 
Lord (comp. Jude 14). In any case it is a strength- 
ened form of the simple dvdOt/ta taro). And thus it 
may be regarded as holding towards it a similar rela- 
tion to that which existed between the shammdthd and 
the ckerem, but not on any supposed ground of ety- 
mological identity between the two words shammdthd 
and muran-atha. Perhaps we ought to interpunctuate 
more strongly between dvdOtpa and yapavuQd, and 
read yrw dvdOepa" papauaOd, i. e. “Let him be anath- 
ema. The Lord will come.” The anathema and the 
cherem answer very exactly to each other (see Lev. 
xxvii, 28; Kuna, xxi, 3; Isa. xliii, 28). See Mara- 

NAT1IA. 

4. Restoration to Communion. — Two cases of excom- 
munication are related in Holy Scripture, and in one 
of them the restitution of the offender is specially re- 
counted. The incestuous Corinthian had been excom- 
municated by the authority of Paul, who had issued 
his sentence from a distance without any consultation 
with the Corinthians. He had required them public- 
ly to promulgate it and act upon it. They had done 
so. The offender had been brought to repentance, and 
was overwhelmed with grief. Hereupon Paul, still 
absent as before, forbids the further infliction of the 
punishment, pronounces the forgiveness of the peni- 
tent, and exhorts the Corinthians to receive him back 
to communion, and to confirm their love towards him. 

5. The Xature of Excommunication is made more evi- 
dent by these acts of Paul than by any investigation 
of Jewish practice or of the etymology of words. AVc 


thus find (1) that it is a spiritual penalty, involving 
no temporal punishment except accidentally ; (2) that 
it consists in separation from the communion of the 
Church ; (3) that its object is the good of the sufferer 
(1 Cor. v, 5), and the protection of the sound members 
of the Church (2 Tim. iii, 17) ; (4) that its subjects are 
those who arc guilty of heresy (1 Tim. i, 20) or gross 
immorality (1 Cor. v, 1) ; (5) that it is inflicted by the 
authority of the Church at large (Matt, xviii, 18), 
wielded by the highest ecclesiastical officer (1 Cor. v r 
3 ; Tit. iii, 10) ; (6) that this officer’s sentence is pro 
mulgated by the congregation to which the offender 
belongs (1 Cor. v, 4), in deference to his superior judg- 
ment and command (2 Cor. ii, 9), and in spite of any 
opposition on the part of a minority (ib. 6) ; (7) that 
the exclusion may be of indefinite duration or for a 
period ; (8) that its duration may be abridged at the 
discretion and by the indulgence of the person Mho 
has imposed the penalty (ib. 8) ; (9) that penitence is 
the condition on which restoration to communion is 
granted (ib. 7) ; (10) that the sentence is to be publicly 
reversed as it was publicly promulgated (ib. 10). — 
Smith, Appendix , s. v. 

III. In the Post- Apostolic Christian Church . — (I.) In 
general. — Such a power is necessarily inherent in every 
community; and although “the only sense in which 
the apostles, or, of course, any of their successors in 
the Christian ministry, can be empowered to ‘ for- 
give sins’ as against God is by pronouncing and pro- 
claiming his forgiveness of all those who, coming to 
him through Christ, repent and forsake their sins,” yet 
since offences as against a community may “ be visited 
with penalties by the regular appointed officers of that 
community, they may enforce or remit such penalties. 
On these principles is founded the right which the 
Church claims both to punish ecclesiastical offences, 
and to pronounce an absolute and complete pardon of 
a particular offender on his making the requisite sub- 
mission and reparation” (Eden, s. v.). 

(II.) In the early Christian Church. — 1. In the disci- 
pline of the primitive Church, according to the apos- 
tolic injunction, recourse was not had to excommuni- 
cation until “after the first and second admonition” 
(7rpo0e(T/ua). If the offender proved refractory after 
the time granted for repentance (Siegel, Alterthumer , 
ii, 131), he was liable to excommunication, which at 
first consisted simply in the removal of the offender 
from the Lord’s Supper and the love-feasts : hence 
the word excommunication , separation from commu- 
nion. The practice was founded on the words of the 
apostle (1 Cor. v, 11), “with such an one, no, not to 
eat;” which do not refer to ordinary meals and the 
common intercourse oftlife, but to the agapee and oth- 
er solemnities. The chief difference between Jew- 
ish and Christian excommunication consisted in this: 
the former extended in its consequences to the af- 
fairs of civil life, whereas the latter was strictly con- 
fined to ecclesiastical relations. It was impossible, 
in the constitution and situation of the Church dur- 
ing the three first centuries, that there should have 
been any confounding or intermingling of civil and 
religious privileges or penalties. But, though insti- 
tuted at first for the purpose of preserving the purity 
of the Church, excommunication "was afterwards by 
degrees converted by ambitious ecclesiastics into an 
engine for promoting their own power, and was often 
inflicted on the most frivolous occasions (Bingham, 
Ong. Eccles. bk. xv, chap. ii). The primitive Church 
was very cautious in exercising its power of excom- 
munication. No mail could be condemned to it in his 
absence, or without being allowed liberty to answer 
for himself. Legal conviction was always required, i. 
e. by his own confession, by credible evidence, or by 
open notoriety. Minors were subjected to corporal dis- 
cipline rather than to this censure (Bingham, Ong. 
Eccl. bk. xvi, ch. ii ; Cave, Prim. Christianity, iii, 5). 

2. There -were two excommunications, the greatet 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


8S 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


(major) and lesser (??mio?’). The excommunicatio minor 
(dtyu pier pop) excluded from participation in the Eucha- 
rist and prayers of the faithful, hut did not expel from 
the Church; for tiie person under its sentence might 
stay to hear the psalmody, reading of the Scripture, 
sermons and prayers of the catechumens and peni- 
tents, and then depart as soon as the first service, call- 
ed the sendee of catechumens , was ended ( r l heod. if. 
77 ; ad Ettlal. iii, 797). This punishment was com- 
monly inflicted upon lesser crimes, or if upon greater, 
upon such sinners only as showed a willingness to re- 
pent — upon those who had lapsed rather through in- 
firmity than maliciousness. The excommunicatio ma- 
jor , greater excommunication (tt« urf/\>}c ci(popicrfi6c) y 
was a total expulsion from the Church, and separation 
from communion in all holy offices with it (. Encyclop . 
Met ropolit unci). When attended with execrations, ex- 
communication was called anathema (see article, vol. 
i, p. 219). The several churches mutually informed 
each other of their own separate excommunications, in 
order that a person excommunicated by one church 
might be held so by all ; and any church which re- 
ceived him was held deserving of similar punishment, 
lie who was guilty of any intercourse with an excom- 
municated person, himself incurred a like sentence, 
which deprived him of Christian burial and insertion 
in the diptychs or catalogues of the faithful. No gifts 
or oblations were received from the excommunicated. 
No intermarriages might take place with them. Their 
books might not be read, but were to be burned (Bing- 
ham, Onej.Eecl . bk. xv). For the .restoration of ex- 
communicated persons, penances (cj. v.) and public pro- 
fessions of repentance were required; and in Africa and 
Spain the absolution of lapsed persons (i. e. those who, 
in time of persecution, had yielded to the force of 
temptation, and fallen away from their Christian pro- 
fession by the crime of actual sacrifice to idols) was 
forbidden, except at tiie hour of death, or in cases 
where martyrs interceded for them. See Lapsi. 

(III.) The Roman Church. — As the pretensions of the 
hierarchy increased, excommunication became more 
and more an instrument of ecclesiastical power, as 
well as a means of enlarging it. When the Church 
had full control of the state, its sentences were attend- 
ed with the gravest civil as well as ecclesiastical con- 
sequences. There are three degrees of excommunica- 
tion, the minor , the major , and the anathema . 

1. The minor is incurred by holding communion with 
an excommunicated person : oratione , locuiione , bibendo , 
comedeiulo — praying, speaking, drinking, eating ; and 
absolution may be given by any priest on confession. 
Priests who have incurred the minor ban may admin- 
ister the Eucharist, but cannot partake of it. 

2. The major excommunicatio falls upon those who 
disobey the commands of the pope, or who, having 
been found guilty of any offence, civil or criminal, re- 
fuse to submit to certain points of discipline; in conse- 
quence of which they are excommunicated from the 
Church triumphant, and delivered over to the devil and 
his angels. It requires a written sentence from a bish- 
op after three admonitions. It deprives the condemn- 
ed person of all the blessings of the Church in any 
shape, except that he is not debarred from hearing the 
"Word. So long as the State obeyed the Church, civil 
disabilities followed the sentence of excommunication ; 
no obedience was due to the excommunicated; the 
laws could give them no redress for injuries; and none 
could hold intercourse with them under penalty of ex- 
communication. On this last point, however, a dis- 
tinction has been made since the 15th century be- 
tween those who are called tolerati (tolerated) and 
those who are designated as vitandi (persons to be 
shunned). Only in the case of the latter (a case ex- 
tremely rare, and confined to heresiarchs, and other 
signal offenders against the. faith or public order of 
the Church) are the ancient rules for prohibition of 
intercourse enforced. "With the ‘ tolerated,’ since the I 


celebrated decree of Pope Martin V in the Council of 
Constance, the faithful are permitted to maintain the 
ordinary intercourse. By the 12th century the word 
ban ( hannus , bannuni ), which in ancient jurisprudence 
denoted a declaration of outlawry, had come into eccle- 
siastical use to denote the official act of excommunica- 
tion. See Ban. 

The professed aim of excommunication was the re- 
form of the offender as well as the purification of the 
Church. Absolution can be granted, in case of the 
major ban, only by the authority which laid the ban, 
or its successor. Before absolution the authorities 
must be satisfied of penitence. The “ penitent must 
first swear to obey the commands of the Church, and 
to make all necessary atonement for his special of- 
fence; he must then be reconciled by kneeling, bare- 
headed and stripped to his shirt, before the bishop sit- 
ting at the church gates. Here he again repeats his 
oath, and the bishop, reciting the psalm Deus miser ea- 
tur , strikes him with a rod during each verse. Then, 
after certain prayers, he absolves him and leads him 
into the church.” 

3. The anathema is attended with special ceremo- 
nies. “ The bishop must be attended by twelve 
priests, each of whom, as well as himself, bears a light- 
ed candle. He then sits before the high altar, or any 
other public place which he prefers, and delivers his 
sentence, which adjudges the offender to be anathemi - 
zatum ct damnatum cum diubolo et angelis ejus et omnibus 
reprolis in aternum iynem — cursed and damned with 
the devil and his angels and all the reprobate to eter- 
nal fire. The candles are then dashed down. The 
ceremonials of absolution from this sentence are not 
very different from the last, although the form of 
prayer is varied” ( Encyclop . Metrop. s. v.). The ef- 
fects of the anathema were summed up in the monkish 
lines 

Si pro delicto anathema quis officiatin', 

Os, orare, vale, commnnio, mensa negator. 

Sec Anathema ; Bell, Book, and Candle. 

“In the Boman Catholic Church the power of ex- 
communicating is held to reside, not in the congre- 
gation, but in the bishop; and this is believed to he 
in exact accordance with the remarkable proceeding 
commemorated in the First Epistle of St. Paul to the 
Corinthians (1 Cor. v, 3, 5), and with all the earliest 
recorded examples of its exercise. Like all the pow- 
ers of the episcopate, it is held to belong, in an especial 
and eminent degree, to the Roman bishop, as primate 
of the Church ; but it is by no means believed to be- 
long to him exclusively, nor has such exclusive right 
ever been claimed by the bishops of Rome. On the 
contrary, bishops within their sees, archbishops while 
exercising visitatorial jurisdiction, heads of religious 
orders within their own communities, all possess the 
power to issue excommunication, not only bv the an>- 
cient law of the Church, but also by the most modern 
discipline” (Chambers, s. v.). But Aquinas bold that 
excommunication, as not belonging to the keys of or- 
der, not to those of jurisdiction , and as not referring to 
grace directly, but only accidentally, might be exer- 
cised by persons not in holy orders, but yet having 
jurisdiction in ecclesiastical courts (Sumnui y Suppl. 
iii, qti. 22). See Marshall, Penitential Discipline, Oxf. 
1844, p. 139. The Council of Trent declares (sess. 
xxv, ch. iii, de Reform .) that, “Although the sword of 
excommunication is the very sinews of ecclesiastical 
discipline, and very salutary for keeping the people in 
their duty, yet it is to be used with sobriety and great 
circumspection ; seeing that experience teaches that 
if it be rashly or for slight causes wielded, it is more 
despised than feared, and produces destruction rather 

than safety It shall be a crime for any secular 

magistrate to prohibit an ecclesiastical judge from ex- 
communicating any one, or to command that he re- 
voke an excommunication issued, under pretext that 
the things contained in the present decree have not 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


389 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


been ohserved; whereas the cognizance hereof does 
not pertain to seculars, blit to ecclesiastics. And every 
excommunicated person soever who, after the lawful 
monitions, does not change his mind, shall not only not 
be received to the sacraments and to communion and 
intercourse w r ith the faithful, but if, being bound with 
censures, he shall, with obdurate heart, remain for a 
year in the defilement thereof, he may even be pro- 
ceeded against as suspected of heresy.” The popes 
have exercised the power of excommunication against 
entire communities at once. The Capitularies of Pepin 
the Less, in the 8th century, ordained that the greater 
excommunication should be followed by banishment 
from the country. On the claim of the popes to ex- 
communicate and depose monarchs, and to free sub- 
jects from their allegiance, see M‘Clintock, Temporal 
Tower of the Pope (N. Y. 1855, 12mo). “The latest 
examples of p.ipal excommunication of monarchs were 
Napoleon I in 1809, and Victor Emmanuel, king of 
Italy, in 1860 ; neither of whom, however, was excom- 
municated by name, the pope having confined himself 
to a solemn and reiterated publication of the penalties 
decreed by his predecessors against those who unjustly 
invaded the territories of the Holy See, usurped or vio- 
lated its rights, or violently impeded their free exer- 
cise. The excommunication of a sovereign was re- 
garded as freeing subjects from their allegiance ; and, 
in the year 1102, this sentence was pronounced against 
the emperor Henry IV, an example which subsequent 
popes likewise ventured to follow. But the fearful 
weapons with which the popes armed themselves in 
this power of excommunication were rendered much 
less effective throngh their incautious employment, 
the evident worldly motives by which it was some- 
times governed, and the excommunications which rival 
popes hurled against each other during the time of the 
great papal schism” (Chambers, s. v.). 

(IV.) The Greek Church. — In the Greek Church ex- 
communication cuts off the offender from all commu- 
nion with the 318 fathers of the first Council of Nicnea, 
consigns him to the devil and his angels, and condemns 
his body to remain after death as hard as a piece of 
flint, unless he humbles himself and makes atonement 
for his sins by a sincere repentance. “ The form 
abounds with dreadful imprecations ; and the Greeks 
assert that, if a person dies excommunicated, the devil 
enters into the lifeless corpse ; and, therefore, in order 
to prevent it, the relations of the deceased cut his body 
in pieces and boil them in wine. Every year, on a 
fixed Sunday, the greater ban is pronounced against 
the pope and the Church of Rome, on which occasion, 
together with a great deal of idle ceremony, he drives 
a nail into the ground with a hammer as a mark of 
malediction” (Buck, s. v.). Sir Paul Rycaut {Present 
State of the Greek and Armenian Churches , Lond. 1679, 
8vo), who w'rote his observations on the state of that 
communion in 1678, has given, in the original Greek, 
the form of an excommunication issued against an un- 
known thief whom the authorities were seeking to 
discover. It runs as follows : “ If they restore not to 
him that which is his own, and possess him peaceably 
of it, but suffer him to remain injured and damnifved, 
let him be separated from the Lord God Creatour,’and 
be accursed, and unpardoned, and undissolvable after 
death in this world, and in the other which is to come. 
Let wood, stones, and iron be dissolved, but not they: 
may they inherit the leprosie of Gehazi and the confu- 
sion of Judas ; may the earth be divided, and devour 
them like Dathan and Abiram ; may they sigh and 
tremble on earth like Cain , and the wrath of God be 
upon their heads and countenances ; may they see 
nothing of that for which they labor, and beg their 
bread all the days of their lives; may their works, 
possessions, labors, and services be accursed; always 
without effect or success, and blown away like dust; 
may they have the curses of the holy and righteous 
patriarchs Abram, Isaac , and Jacob; of the 318 saints 


who were the divine fathers of the Synod of Nice, and 
of all other holy synods ; and being without the Church 
of Christ, let no man administer unto them the things 
of the Church, or bless them, or offer sacrifice for them, 
or give them the dvribiopov, or the blessed bread, or 
cat, or drink, or work with them, or converse with 
them ; and after death let no man bury them, in pen- 
alty of being under the same state of excommunica- 
tion ; for so let them remain until they have performed 
what is here written.” 

(V.) In Protestant Churches. — New relations between 
Church and State followed hard upon the Reforma- 
tion, and new limits were soon assigned to the exer- 
cise of discipline. According to the view of the "\Vit- 
temberg reformers, the ban could have no civil effect 
unless ratified by the State. The necessity of the pow- 
er of excommunication in the Church was asserted by 
all the Reformers. They maintained that excommuni- 
cation is the affair of the whole Church, clergy and 
laity (Calvin, Institut. vol. iv, chap, xi ; Mclancthon, 
Corpus Ref. ed. Bret schneider, iii, 965). See Erastiax- 
isai. They disclaimed the right of using the excom • 
municatio major. In general, the “ Reformers retain- 
ed only that power of excommunication which appear- 
ed to them to be inherent in the constitution of the 
Christian society, and to be sanctioned by the Word 
of God ; nor have any civil consequences been gener- 
ally connected with it in Protestant countries. To 
connect such consequences with excommunication in 
any measure whatever is certainly inconsistent with 
the principles of the Reformation” (Chambers, s. v.). 

The causes of excommunication in the establish- 
ed Church of England are, contempt of the bishops’ 
court, heres 3 r , neglect of public worship and the sac- 
raments, incontinency, adultery, simony, etc. If the 
judge of an}’ - spiritual court excommunicates a man 
for a canse of which he has not the legal cognizance, 
the party may have an action against him at com- 
mon law, and he is also liable to be indicted at the 
suit of the king (Can. 65, 68 ; see also the Homily 
On the Right Uses of the Church ). The 33d Article of 
Religion is as follows : “ That person which, by open 
denunciation of the Church, is rightly cut off from the 
unity of the Church, and excommunicated, ought to 
be taken of the whole multitude of the faithful as a 
heathen and publican until he be openly reconciled by 
penance, and received into the Church by a judge that 
hath authority thereunto.” “ By old English law an 
excommunicated person was disabled from doing any 
act reqnired to be done by one that is jjj’obus et legalis 
homo . He could not serve on juries, nor be witness in 
any court, nor bring an action real or personal to re- 
cover lands or money due to him. By stat. 5 and 6 
Edward YI, cap. 4, striking, or drawing a weapon to 
strike, in a church or church-yard, incurred ipso facto 
excommunication ; ipso facto excommunication, or latte 
sentential , meaning sonic act so clear or manifest that 
no sentence is requisite, in contradistinction from sen - 
t entice ferendee, i. e. when sentence must be passed be- 
fore the offender be considered excommunicated. The 
offences which, in the reign of Edward III, 1373, were 
punished by ipso facto excommunication, are enumer- 
ated in some articuli issued when Wittlesey was arch- 
bishop of Canterbury ; most of them are such as might 
be injurious to the persons or properties of the clergy. 
The document may be found in Cone. Mctgn. Britt, iii, 
95. By 3 James I, cap. 5, every popish recusant con- 
vict stands to all intents and purposes disabled, as a 
person lawfully excommunicated. The ecclesiastical 
law denies Christian burial to those excommunicated 
majori excommunicationc , and an injunction to the min- 
isters to that effect will be found in the sixtv-eighth 
canon, and in the rubric of the burial service. The 
law acknowledged two excommunications : the lesser 
excluded the offender from the communion of the 
Church only ; the greater from that communion, and 
also from the company of the faithful, etc. The sixty- 


EXCOMMUNICATION 


390 


EXECRATION 


fifth canon enjoins ministers solemnly to denounce j 
those who stand lawfully excommunicated ever}" six 
months, sis well in the parish church as in the cathe- 
dral church of the diocese in which they remain, 

* openly in time of divine service, upon some Sunday,’ | 
‘that others may be thereby both admonished to re- 
frain their company and society, and excited the rather 
to procure out a writ de excommunicato copiendo, there- 
by to bring and reduce them into due order and obedi- 
ence.’ By statute 52 George 111, cap. 127, excommuni- 
cations, and the proceedings following thereupon, are 
discontinued, except in certain cases specified in the 
act; which may receive definitive sentences as spirit- 
ual censures for offences of ecclesiastical cognizance ; 
and instead of sentence of excommunication, which used 
to be pronounced by the ecclesiastical courts in cases 
of contumacy, the offenders are to be declared contu- 
macious, and to be referred to the court of chancery, 
by which a writ de contumace capiendo is issued in- 
stead of the old writ de excommunicato capiendo. For- 
merly this writ de excommunicato capiendo was issued 
by the court of chancery upon it being signified by 
the bishop's certificate that forty days have elapsed 
since sentence of excommunication has been published 
in the church without submission of the offender. 
The sheriff then received the writ, called also a signifi- 
cant, and lodged the culprit in the county jail till the 
bishop certified his reconciliation. A similar method 
of proceeding to that now adopted was recommended 
by a report of a committee of both houses of Parlia- 
ment as far back as March 7, 1710, and again on April 
50, 1714. No person excommunicated for such offences 
as are still liable to the punishment can now lie im- 
prisoned for a longer term than six months (Burns, 
Eccl. Law , by Tyrwhit, ad vl). In Scotland, when the 
lesser excommunication, or exclusion from the sacra- 
ments has failed, the minister pronounces a form by 
which the impenitent offender is declared ‘excommu- 
nicated, shut out from the communion of the faithful, 
debarred from their privileges, and delivered unto 
Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that his spirit 
may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.’ The 
people are then warned to avoid all unnecessary in- 
tercourse with him. Anciently, in Scotland, an ex- 
communicated person was incapable of holding feudal 
rights, but at present the sentence is unaccompanied 
by any civil penalty or disqualification” ( Encyclopedia 
Aldropoliiana, s. v.). 

The law of the Protestant Episcopal Church in 
America, as expressed by the 42d canon of 1832, is as 
follows; Sec. 1. If any persons within this Church of- 
fend their brethren by any wickedness of life, such 
persons shall be repelled from the holy communion, 
agreeably to the rubric. Sec. 2. On information being 
laid before the bishop that any one has been repelled 
from communion, it shall not be his duty to institute 
an inquiry unless there he a complaint made to him in 
writing by the repelled party. But on receiving com- 
plaint, it shall he the duty of the bishop, unless he 
think fit to restore him from the insufficiency of the 
cause assigned by the minister, to institute an inquiry, 
as may be directed bv the canons of the diocese in 
which the event has taken place. Sec. 3. In the case 
of a great heinousness of offence on the part of mem- 
bers of this Church, they may he proceeded against to 
the depriving them of all privileges of church mem- 
bership, according to sueh rules or process as may be 
provided by the General Convention, and, until such 
rules and process shall he provided, by such as may he 
provided by the different State Conventions. See also 
the 33d Artie 1 e. of Religion . 

In tlie Methodist Episcopal Church the power of ex- 
communication lies with the minister after trial before 
a jury of the peers of the accused party. The grounds 
ami forms of trial are given in the discipline, part iii, 
chap. i. It is provided in the Constitution that no law 
shall ever be made doing away the privilege of accused 


ministers or members to have trial and right of appeal 
(Discipline, pt. ii, eh. i, § 1). 

“Among the Independents, Congregationalists, and 
Baptists, the persons uho are or should he excommu- 
nicated are such as are quarrelsome and litigious (Gal. 
v, 12) ; such as desert their privileges, withdraw them- 
selves fiom the ordinances of God, and forsake his peo- 
ple (Jude 19); such as are irregular and immoral in 
their lives, railers, drunkards, extortioners, fornica- 
tors, and covetous (Eph. v, 5 ; 1 Cor. v, 11). In the 
United States these simple principles of Church disci- 
pline are very generally followed by all evangelical 
denominations” (Buck, s. v.). See particularly the 
Form of Government of the Presbyterian Church . I k. ii 
of Discipline ; Dexter, On Congregationalism (Boston, 
18G5), p. 191-2 ; Ripley, On Church Potty (Bost. 18G7), 
p. 81 sq. ; Edwards, Nature and Use <f Excommunica- 
tion (IFor/rs, X. Y. 1848), iv, 038. 

literature . — See, besides the works already cited, 
Ferraris, Promta Bibliotheca , ed. Mignc, iii, 84G sq. ; 
Siegel, Christ L-Hrchl. Alterthinncr, ii, 131 sq. ; Bing- 
ham, Orig. Eccles. bk. xvi, chap, ii, iii; Van Espen, De 
Ccnsuris Ecclesiasficis (Opera, Paris, 1753, 4 vols.) ; 
Scheele, Die Kirchenzucht (Halle, 1852, 8vo) ; Hooker, 
Eccl. Polity , viii, 1, G ; Calvin, Institutes , I k. iv, eh, xii $ 
Thorndike, 1 1 T orh$ (Oxford, 185G), vi, 21 ; Waterlaml, 
Worlts (Oxford, 1853), iii,45G; M iner, Comp. Demt el- 
lung, § 20; Ilageubach, Hist, of Doctrines, ed. Smith, 
§ 255; II erzog, Real~E?icyl!opcidie, s. v. Bann ; Palmer, 
On the Church, i, 9G; ii, 277, 304; Watson, Theological 
Institutes, ii, 574; Burnet, On the Articles , Browne, Oft 
the Articles , Forbes, On the A icicles (each on Article 
XXXII 1); W heath”, On Common Prayer, Bohn’s ed., 
p.442 sq. ; Scott, hynoel of Port (Philadelphia IYcsb. 
Board), p. 249; Gibbon, Decline and Fall, cli. xv, pt. 
v. See Anathema ; Ban ; Discipline. 

Exeat, a Latin term, signifying either the permis- 
sion given by a bishop to a clergyman of his diocese 
that he may for a time go out of his diocese, or the 
same permission given by an abbot to one of the “re- 
ligious” of his monastery, or by the authorities of a 
college (in England). to a student (Eden). 

Execration (»"t'bx, alah', Jer. xlii, 18; xliv, 12; 
a “ curse ” or “oath,” abstractly, as elsewhere) is prop- 
erly the representative of the Greek word tcardpa, 
which occurs (in the verb Karapctopai) in the Sept, at 
Nuni. xxiii, 8 ; xxiv, 9 ; Josh, vi, 26 ; 1 Sam. xvii, 43, 
etc., as a rendering of various Heb. terms (“jX, 
b^jT 1 , etc.), and also in the N. T. (“ curse,” Matt, v, 44 ; 
Mark ii, 21, etc.). It is used also in profane authors 
to denote the imprecations which it was customary 
I among ancient nations to pronounce upon their ene- 
mies for the purpose of calling down the divine wrath, 

! branding them with infamy, and exciting against them 
the passions of the multitude. By this means they 
also devoted their enemies to the ruin they considered 
them to deserve. These imprecations were chiefly 
| pronounced by priests, enchanters, or prophets. See 
Balaam. The Athenians made use of them against 
Philip of Maccdon. They convened an assembly, in 
which it was decreed that all statues, inscriptions, or 
j festivals among them, in any way relating to him or 
his ancestors, should be destroyed, and every other 
! possible reminiscence of him profaned ; and that the 
j priests, as often as the}' prayed for the success of the 
Athenian affairs, should pray for the ruin of Philip. 
It was also customary, both among the Greeks and 
Homans, after having destroyed cities in war, the re- 
vival of whose strength they dreaded, to pronounce 
I execrations upon those who should rebuild them. 
Strabo observes that Agamemnon pronounced execra- 
tions on those who should rebuild Troy, as Croesus did 
against those -who should rebuild Sidena ; and this 
mode of execrating cities Strabo calls an ancient cus- 
tom (Kara i ra\a\ov xiii, p. 898, edit. 1707). The 

Romans published a decree full of execrations against 


EXECUTION 


391 


EXECUTION 


tnose who should rebuild Carthage (Zonaras, Annal.'). ' 
An incident somewhat analogous is related (Josh, vi, 
20) after the taking of Jericho. From the words “and 
Joshua adjured them at that time,” it is likely that he 
acted under a divine intimation that Jericho should 
continue in ruins, as a monument of the divine dis- 
pleasure and a warning to posterity. The words 
“cursed be the man (the individual ) before the Lord 
thatriseth up and buildeth this city Jericho,” although 
transformed into an execration by the word supplied 
by the translators, amount to no more than a predic- 
tion that “ he shall lay the foundation thereof in his 
first-born, and in his youngest son shall he set up the 
gates of it,” that is, he shall meet with so many im- 
pediments to his undertaking that he shall outlive all 
his children, dying in the course of nature before he 
shall complete it. See Jericho. Execrations were 
also pronounced upon cities and their inhabitants be- 
fore undertaking a siege (Macrobins has preserved two 
of the ancient forms used in reference to the destruc- 
tion of Carthage, Saturnal. iii, 9), and before engaging 
with enemies in war. Tacitus relates that the priest- 
esses of ancient Britain devoted their Roman invaders 
to destruction with imprecations, ceremonies, and at- 
titudes, which for a time overwhelmed the soldiers 
with terror (.1 mud. xiv, 29). The execrations in the 
83d Psalm, probably written on the occasion of the 
confederac}' against Jehoshaphat, and other instances 
of a like nature, partake of the execrations of the hea- 
then in nothing but form, being the inspired predic- 
tions or denunciations of divine vengeance against the 
avowed enemies of the God of Israel, notwithstand- 
ing the proofs they had witnessed of his supremacy; 
and the object of these imprecations, as in many other 
instances, is charitable, namely, their conversion to the 
true religion (ver. 38 ; see also Psa. lix, 12). — Kitto, 
s, v. See Anathema ; Imprecation. 

Execution, or capital punishment, among the 
Jews, when lawfnl and regular, was of one of the fol- 
lowing kinds. 3. Death by the sword (3*1*1 or 

2“1H2 also simply *l3Sl ; 2 Sam. i, 15 ; 2 Kings 

x, 25; Jer. xxvi, 23), by winch, however, we are not 
to understand beheading (in 2 Kings x, 7, the bodies 
were probably decapitated after death), as the Rabbins 
will have it (Mishna, Sanhedr. vii, 3), a penalty that 
early occurs in Egypt (Gen. xl, 19), and later in the 
Homan period among the Jews, as the introduction of 
foreign princes (Matt, xiv, 30 sq.), and as is probably 
meant in Acts xii, 2 (comp. Josephus, Ant. xv, 1, 2); 
but the oilender was stabbed or cut to death, as the 
case might be. 2. Stoning (q. v.) ; since the shooting 
with a dart, mentioned iu Exod. xix, 13, was only se- 
lected in place of this when an individual was to be 
put to death at a distance. These punishments were 
intensified by indignities to the corpse; namely, (a.) 
Burning (’jNS Cj'lb, Lev. xx, 14; xxi, 9; compare 
Josh, vii, 35, 25 ; Gen. xxxviii, 24 ; 1 Macc. iii, 5 ; [see 
Michaelis in loc.]). That we are here not to think of 
a burning alive, we may gather from Josh, vii, 25; 
and it is the more probable from the procedure detail- 
ed in the Mishna ( Sanhedr . vii, 2), which directs that 
the delinquent’s mouth should be forced open by a 
cloth drawn around the neck, and melted lead then 
be poured in ! ( b .) Hanging (nbn) on a tree or post 

(Dent, xxi, 22; Num. xxv, 4; comp. Josh, x, 2G; 2 
Sam. iv, 12 ; 1 Sam. xxxi, 8, 10), with which mutila- 
tion of the dead body was often connected (2 Sam. iv, 
12). The person bung was regarded as execrated 
(Dent, xxi, 23 ; comp. Gal. iii, 13), and was not al- 
lowed to remain suspended over night (Dent, xxi, 23 ; 
comp. Josh, viii, 29 ; x, 2G sq.), through fear of tainting 
the atmosphere, since putrescence soon began. The op- 
posite treatment was deemed an extraordinary severi- 
ty (2 Sam. xxi, G, 9 sq.). The hanging of a living 
person (Ezra vi, 11) is a Persian punishment. Under 


the Ilerods this custom was likewise introduced among 
the Jews (Josephus, Ant. xvi, 11, G), as in the Roman 
period in Egypt (Philo, ii, 529). (c.) Finally, a heap 

of stones (b“H.‘ □ ’’DSN by) was thrown over the body, 
i. e. the grave (Josh, vii, 25 sq. ; viii, 29 ; 2 Sam. xviii, 
17). This dishonor is still common in the East (Pau- 
1 us, Ken. Report, ii, 53; Jahn, Archdol.il, ii, 353). One 
of these kinds of punishment is constantly referred to 
by the legislative precept, “That soul shall be cut oflf 
from the people” czv z^z tiEjn r,rn=^ 7 

or rrrr*2), as especially appears from Exod. xxxi, 
14; Lev. xvii, 4; xx, 17 (see Michaelis, Mos. Recht , 
v, 37 sq. ; the cases are specified in the Mishna, Cher - 
ithuth, i, 3) ; but the Rabbins are not altogether agreed ; 
comp. Abarbanel on Num. xv, 30; also in Ugolini 
Thesaur. xxx) ; not, as most will have it, a mere in- 
terdict from political or religious privileges. See Ex- 
comm uni cation. All penal inflictions were usually 
speedy (Josh, vii, 24 sq. ; 1 Sam. xxii, 1G), and origin- 
ally inflicted directly by the populace, but under the 
kings by their body-guard, or one of their attendants. 
See Cheretiiite. 

Foreign punishments, unknown to the Jewish law, 
were the following: 3. Sailing in pieces (2 Sam. xii, 
31). See Saw. 2. Dichotomy , i. e. cutting asunder 
(fiXOToguv or pt\iZtiv = u quartering”) or dismember- 
ment (r;3'4 5, 1 Sam. xv, 33 ; ptXicri Fiaipuv, Josephus, 
Ant. xv, 8, 4; a barbarous instance is given in Jose- 
phus, Ant. xiii, 32, G; and an inhuman murder in Judg. 
xix, 29 ; but 3 Kings iii, 25, does not belong here) of 
the living being (see Krumbholz, Depaznaper to ftyo- 
to pun signifeata , in the Bibl. Brem. vii, 234 sq.), 
which was universal among the Babylonians (Dan. ii, 
5; iii, 29 : in 2 Sam. iv, 12; 2 Macc. i, 36, mangling 
after death is indicated by way of infamy; compare 
Livy, viii, 28 ; iu Ezek. xvi, 40 ; xx, 47, dichotomy is 
not to be understood), as well as Egyptians (Herod, ii, 
339; iii, 33) and Persians (Herod, vii, 39; Diod. Sic. 
xvii, 83; comp. Horace, Sat. i, 1, 99 sq. ; 2 Macc. vii, 
8 ; Matt, xxiv, 53 ; Luke xii, 4G ; Koran, xx, 74 ; xxvi, 
49 ; Assemani, Martyred. Or. i, 241 sq.). 3. Precipita- 

tion (niT'cd, 2 C’hron. xxv, 12; comp. Psa. cxli, G; 
KaTciKcnjpvKjpoQ , Luke iv, 29; comp. 2 Macc. vi, 10) 
from a rock (“dejieere de saxo Tarpeio” or “ex ag- 
gere,” Suetonius, Calig. 27) is well known as a Roman 
mode of execution (for the Athenians, see AVachsmuth, 
Hellen. Alterth. ii, 20). 4. Tympanism (rofiTzariffpoQ), 
or beating to death (Heb. xi, 35; A.V. “torture;” 
comp. Aristot. Rhet. ii, 5 ; Lucian, Jup. Trag. 19, etc.), 
of which the instrument was a cudgel (jvpTcavov, 2 
Macc. vi, 19, 28, A.V. “torment;” Aristophanes, Pint. 
47G); hnt it is uncertain whether we are thereby to 
understand simply a club with which the unfortunates 
were dispatched, or a wooden hoop upon which they 
were stretched in the manner of a rack (comp. Jose- 
phus, De Maccab. viii, 5 and 9). See Tympanum. 

Besides the above, the following methods of exeen- 
tion are named in the Bible as practised by nations in 
the neighborhood of Palestine: 1. Burning alive in a 
furnace (Dan. iii, G, 11, 15, 39 sq.), which occurs in 
modern Persia (Chardin, Voyage , vi, 238), is of very 
early date (if we may trust the traditions concerning 
Abraham [q. v.], Targ. on 2 Chron. xxviii, 3); like- 
wise roasting or boiling convicts over a slow fire (Jer. 
xxix, 22 [see Hebenstreit, De Achabi et Zed elder sup - 
plicio, Lips. 3 73G] ; 2 Macc. vi, 5). See John (tiie 
Apostle), An example of burning alive does not 
occur (2 Sam. xxi, 31, marg. )zbv ; see Thenius, in 
loc.) until the time of Herod (Josephus, War, i, 33, 4); 
but in Egypt the vindictive Roman magistrates took 
pleasure in burning Jews (Philo, ii, 542, 527). No 
instances of burying alive (Ctesias,Pers. xii. 53; Livy, 
viii, 35. etc.) are found in the Scriptures (Num. xvi, 
30 sq., is not in point). 2. Casting into the lions' den 
(Dan. vi). See Lion; Den. 3. Suffocation in hot 


EXECUTIONER 


392 


EXEGETICAL THEOLOGY 


ashes (2 Macc. xiii, 5 sq. ; comp. Valer. Max. ix, 2, C, 
“ He tilled with ashes a place inclosed by high walls, 
with a beam projecting within, upon which he placed 
the doomed, so that, when overcome with drowsiness, 
they fell into the insidious ash-heap below;” see Cte- 
sias, Pers. 47 and 52). See Ashes. 4. Dashing in 
pieces children (sucklings) on the corners of walls, 
which occurred on the sack of cities (Isa. xiii, 16, 18; 
Hos. xiv, 1 ; Kali, iii, 10 ; comp. Psa. cxxxvii, 9), like 
the ripping open of pregnant women (2 Kings viii, 12; 
xv, 1G ; Hos. xiv, 1 ; Amos i, 13), is, with the excep- 
tion of 2 Kings xiv, 16, only a heathenish barbarity. 
On crucifixion, see Crucify. 5. Finally, drowning 
{uarairovTiopoQ, Matt, xviii, G), and fighting with wild 
beasts (3i/p<o/ia\4rt, 1 Cor. xv, 32), are but casually 
alluded to in the N. T. Drowning, as a mode of in- 
flicting death, is old (comp. Exod. i, 22). Among the 
Ilomans, those guilty of parricide were sewed in sacks 
(culei) and then drowned (Cicero, Pose. Am. 25; ad 
Herenn. i, 13; Seneca, Clem, i, 15 ; Juvenal, viii, 214) ; 
but this in the time of the emperors came to be deemed 
an inhuman mode of execution (comp. Josephus, Ant. 

xiv, 15, 10; I Far, i, 22, 2; Laetantius, Movt. persec. 

xv, 3); and thus remaining under the water (Jer. li, 
G3) was thought a peculiarly severe fate (Josephus, 
Apian , i, 34 ; comp. Matt, xviii, 6 ; see Gotz, De pis- 
trinis vett. p. 131 sq. ; Grafe, I)e KaraTtovTiapep, nnm 
fuerit snpplic. Jadceorum , Lips. 1GG2 ; AVelleius, De 
supplicio submers. llnvn. 1701 ; Scherer, De ^arairovT. 
ap. antiq. Argent, xvii, 4). Such cruel punishments 
sometimes followed the mutilations of martyrdom (2 
Maec. vii, 4, 7, 10). On thenomachy , see Games; and 
on the passage 3 Macc. 5, comp. Porphyry, Abstin. ii, 
57. See generally Carpzov, Appar. p. 581 sq. ; Mi- 
chaelis, De judiciis pcenisque cupitatibus in S. S. (Hal. 
1749; also in Ugolini Thesaur. xxvi, and Pott’s Syl- 
loye , iv, 177 sq.) ; Jahn, Archdol. II, ii, 347 sq. ; Mi- 
chaelis, Mos. Peckt , v, 11 sq. — Winer, ii, 11. Compare 
Punishment. 

Executioner (<T7T£K , oiAdrtoo, for Lat. speculator , 
originally a scout , afterwards a life-guardsman under 
the emperor), a member of the royal body-guard adopt- 
ed by Herod in imitation of the Homans (sec Tacitus, 
Hist, ii, 11 ; Suetonius, Claud. 35), and in accordance 
with Oriental despotism, and employed to execute his 
sanguinary orders (Mark vi, 27). (See Smith’s Did. 
of Class. A ntiq. s. v. Speculators ; Schwarz, De Speeu- 
latonbus vett. Romanorum , Altd. 1726.) See Ciiere- 

TIFITE. 

In ancient times persons of the highest rank and 
station were employed to execute the sentence of the 
law. The office of Potiphar, in the Egyptian court, 
mentioned in Genesis xxxvii, 36, is thought to have 
been “ chief of the executioners,” as in the margin of 
our version. See Guard. This is still a high office 
in the East as a court office. Such executioners have 
nothing to do with carrying into effect the awards of 
the law in its ordinary course, but only with those of 
the king. It is there an office of great responsibility ; 
and to insure its due and strict fulfilment, it is intrust- 
ed to an officer of the court, who has necessarily under 
his command a body of men whose duty it is to pre- 
serve the order and peace of the palace and its pre- 
cincts, and to attend and guard the royal person on 
public occasions; and, under the dii’eetion of their 
chief, to inflict such punishment as the king awards 
upon those who incur his displeasure. Potiphar, there- 
fore, in this sense might be called captain of the guard. 
He had his official residence at the public jail (Gen. 
xl, 3). Nelmzaradan (2 Kings xxv, 8; Jer. xxxix, 
9) and Arioch (Dan. ii, 14) held the same office. That 
the “captain of the guard” himself occasionally per- 
formed the duty of an executioner appears from 1 
Kings ii, 25, 34* Nevertheless the post wits one of 
high dignity, and something beyond the, present posi- 
tion of the zdlit of modern Egypt (comp. Lane, i, 163), 
with which Wilkinson (ii,45) compares it. It is still 


not unusual for officers of high rank to inflict corporal 
punishment with their own hands (Wilkinson, ii, 43). 
It does not appear that the Jews had public execu^ 
tionors, but the prince or general laid li is commands 
on any of his attendants. Gideon commanded Jether, 
his eldest son, to execute his sentence on the kings of 
Mklian ; Saul ordered the footmen who stood around 
him, and were probably a chosen body of soldiers for 
the defence of his person, to put to death the priests 
of the Lord, and when they refused, Doeg, an Edom- 
ite, one of his principal officers, executed the com- 
mand (1 Sam. xxii, 18). Long after the days of Saul, 
the reigning monarch commanded Benaiah, the chief 
captain of his armies, to perform the duty of putting 
Joab to death. Sometimes the chief magistrate exe- 
cuted the sentence of the law with his own hands ; for 
when Jether shrank from the duty which his father 
required, Gideon, at that time the supreme magistrate 
in Israel, did not hesitate to do it himself. Thus also 
in Homer ( Odyss . xxi, fin. ; xxii, init.) we read that 
the exasperated Ulysses commanded his son Telema- 
chus to put to death the suitors of Penelope, which 
was immediately done. In condemnations under the 
Mosaic law, the congregation or assembly of people 
executed the criminal, but the witnesses commenced 
the work of death (Lev. xxiv, 16; Deut. xvii, 7 ; John 
viii, 7; Acts vii, 57-60). Executions in the East are 
often very prompt and arbitrary. In many cases, 
among the Turks and Persians, the suspicion is no 
sooner entertained, or the cause of offence given, than 
the fatal order is issued, the messenger of death hur- 
ries to the unsuspecting victim, shows his warrant, 
and executes his order that instant in silence and soli- 
tude (2 Kings vi, 32 ; Prov. xvi, 14 ; Mark vi, 27). See 
Punishment. 

Exedrae, buildings contiguous to the church. See 
Churcii Edifices. 

Exegesis. See Exegetical Theology. 

Exegetical Collections. See Catena; Com- 
mentaries. 

Exegetical Theology, that branch of theology 
which treats of the exposition and interpretation of 
the Old and New Testaments. See Encyclopaedia 
of Theology. Exegesis (*£i/yj;cnc) is statement , ex- 
planation , from thiyeopai, I lead, describe , explain; 
and from this, an exegete , ib]y)]ri}c, guide , interpreter , 
The word exegetical, then, includes all that belongs 
to explanation, and Exegetical Theology includes all 
that belongs to the explanation and interpretation of 
the holy Scriptures. 

I. Matter of Exegetical Theology. — The Bible, in- 
cluding both the O. and N. T., is the material on 
which the science of exegetical theology is employed. 
Some writers therefore designate it as Biblical theolo- 
gy; but the real work of exegesis is to gather from 
the word the material of Biblical theology, leaving 
the arrangement and co-ordination of this material to 
fall into a separate branch of the science. See Bit.li- 
cal Theology ; Theology. In fact, the results of 
exegetical study may fall, according to their nature, 
into historical, doctrinal, or practical theology. See 
Bible. As the Bible comes to ns as the record of a 
revelation from God, its claims in this respect form the 
subject of a separate branch, entitled Inspiration (q. 
v.). The study of inspiration leads to the general 
question of the possibility and nature of Revelation 
(q. v.). 

II. Method of Exegetical Theology. — 1. Philology 
As the Bible comes to us in ancient languages (He- 
brew, Chaldee, Hellenistic Greek), the first requisite 
of exegesis is the knowledge of these languages, both 
as to their grammatical structure and their vocabula- 
ry. This branch is called Sacred Linguistics, or Sa- 
cred Philology. The knowledge of classical Greek is 
of course presupposed, while Syriac, Samaritan, and 
Arabic are cognate anu auxiliary. For details, sec 


EXEGETICAL THEOLOGY 393 EXERCISE 


the separate articles in this work on the various topics I 
named. 

2. Archeology. — Not only does the Bible come to us 
in ancient languages, but it was also written at vari- 
ous times, in various countries, and under various con- 
ditions of life (social, political, religious, etc.). Thus 
arise the various branches of Bible history (belong- 
ing partly to exegetical and partly to historical the- 
ory)* Biblical geography, chronology, ethnography, 
natural history of the Bible, laws, usages, domestic 
economy, agriculture, sacred rites, and worship. All 
these branches are summed up under the general title 
Antiquities, or Archeology. See both these heads in 
this Cyclopaedia, and also the other topics named, for 
the details and the literature. 

3. Canon.— As these books come to ns claiming to 
be authoritative, we must be able to answer the ques- 
tion, What books belong to the Bible as a sacred book? 
The answer to this question gives rise to that branch 
called the science of the Canon of Scripture. It is di- 
vided into canon of the 0. T. and canon of the N. T. 
See the article Canon of Scripture. 

4. Criticism. — Granting that we have certain books 
admitted to be canonical, the farther question arises, 
Have we these writings in their original and correct 
forms ? The answer to this question gives rise to Crit- 
icism, which is divided into the lower or text-criticism, 
which seeks to ascertain the true and original reading 
of the text as accurately as possible, and the higher 
criticism, which examines into the integrity, genuine- 
ness, and authenticity of the books. The higher criti- 
cism seeks to distinguish the true from the false, and 
forms, to a certain degree, the basis of Apologetics (q. 
v.) ; the text-criticism distinguishes the original from 
the altered or corrupted. See Criticism. 

5. Interpretation. — All the studies heretofore named 
are preparatory to the work of getting at the meaning 
of the sacred Scriptures, which is the function of In- 
terpretation, or Hermeneutics (f'p/u/vtuw). The general 
principles on which any other writings would be inter- 
preted are of course applicable here (General Herme- 
neutics); but the special character of these writings 
as sacred gives rise to an enlargement of those gener- 
al principles of interpretation (Sacred Hermeneutics). 
When the sense of Scripture is sought simply by the 
use of linguistics or criticism, the interpretation is 
called Grammatical. When not only linguistics and 
criticism, but also all the knowledges embraced above 
under archeology are employed, the interpretation is 
called Grammatico- Historical. When, in addition, the 
traditional sense of the Church as to the substantial 
facts and doctrines of revelation is brought to bear 
upon the Word, the interpretation is called Doctrinal, 
or Dogmatical .‘ Finally, when a farther sense than 
that conveyed in the words of the writer is sought, the 
interpretation is called Allegorical. For the nature, 
history, and value of these, see Hermeneutics; In- 
terpretation. 

III. Results or Products of Exegetical Theology. — The 
application of the laws of hermeneutics, and of the pre- 
paratory or propaedeutic sciences mentioned above, in 
practical work, is Exegesis. The fruit of this labor 
may appear, within the sphere of exegetical theology 
itself, in translations of the Bible, or of any of its parts 
[see Versions] ; or in commentaries on the Bible, or 
on separate books of the Bible, or on separate passages 
in any of the books. See Commentaries. The prin- 
ciples and rules of exegesis are also to be used by the 
preacher in the preparation of his discourses for the 
congregation. See Homiletics ; Sermon. 

Most of the topics of exegetical theology are em- 
braced in what is called Introduction to the Scriptures, 
a vague title, formerly much in use, but now giving 
way to more scientific and distinctive terms, such as 
Literary History of the Bible, for a general name, and 
the several titles mentioned above for special branches. 
The books on Introduction are often rather useful 


collections of propaedeutic knowledge than scientific 
treatises. See Introduction. There are no books in 
English treating exegetical theology as a separate 
branch in scientific form ; but English literature 
abounds in excellent works on the several branches, 
which will be found indicated under the several titles 
in this Cyclopaedia. The most important general 
works are the so-called books of “ Introduction,” such 
as Horne, Introduction (new ed., London, I860, 4 vols. 
8vo); Davidson, Introduction to N. T. (Lond. 1848-51 
[Dr. Davidson’s later writings are not so trustworthy 
as his earlier]); Wcstcott, Introduction to the Study of 
the Gospels (reprinted, Bost. 18G7, 12mo). On the liter- 
ature, see farther under the head Introduction. On 
the scope of exegetical theology, and its relations to 
the other branches of the science, see Hagenbach, En - 
cyklopddie nnd Methodologie (Leipsig, 18G4, 7th edit, § 
34-5G) ; Marsh, Lectures on the Arrangement of the sev- 
eral Branches of Divinity (Cambridge, 1809, 8vo); Pelt, 
Theologische Ehcyklopadie als System (Hamburg, 1843, 
8vo), § 10-28 ; Clarisse, Encyklopccdue Theological Epit- 
ome (Lugd. Bat. 1835, 8vo), sect, i, ii ; and our articles 
Encyclopaedia of Theology"; Theology. 

Exemption designates, in ecclesiastical law, the 
release of persons or institutions from the jurisdiction 
of the regular superior, and their subordination to a 
higher or special superior. 

1. Roman Catholic Church. — The first example of 
formal exemption is the release of monasteries from 
the episcopal jurisdiction. Many wealthy convents 
induced the popes, emperors, and kings to allow them 
a free election of their superiors, and a free adminis- 
tration of their property. Subsequently many of the 
monastic orders were altogether exempted from the 
jurisdiction of the bishops, the members being subor- 
dinate only to their monastic superiors and the pope. 
The bishops incessantly labored for a restoration of 
their full jurisdiction, and the Council of Constance 
favored them, but most of the popes sided with the 
monks rather than with the bishops. The Council of 
Trent granted most of the demands of the bishops, but 
the difficulties between bishops and monastic orders 
have never wholly ceased. Bishops sometimes are ex- 
empt from the usual subordination to an archbishop, 
being subordinate directly to the pope. Sometimes 
(as in Austria) the army was exempted from the juris- 
diction of the bishops, and placed under the jurisdic- 
tion of a special army-bishop. 

2. Protestant Churches. — The Protestant state church- 
es retained, with other parts of the ecclesiastical law, 
the idea of exemption. The princes claimed for them- 
selves exemption from the usual ecclesiastical juris- 
diction ; later, the same exemption was claimed for 
civil and military officers. In some countries the no- 
bility also were exempt. In Prussia, a circular of 
the government in 1817 abolished all exemptions, but 
it was not executed. Churches which are based on 
the voluntary principle know of no exemption, because 
they compel none of their members to belong to any 
particular congregation. 

In many districts in Germany, Roman Catholic, Lu- 
theran, and Reformed pastors had jurisdiction even 
over members of the two other churches ; and the ex- 
emption of Protestants from Roman Catholic jurisdic- 
tion, and vice versa, is not yet fully carried through. 
— Herzog, ReaUEncykbp. iv, 28G ; Wetzer und Welte, 
Kirchen~Lex. iii, 841. (A. J. S.) 

Exercise, Bodily" (rnofiariia) ■yvpvaata, i. e. phys- 
ical training, i. q. gymnastics . 1 Tim. iv, 8). What the 
apostle seems to disparage under this term is not the 
athletic discipline which it classically imports (Arri- 
an, Epict. i, 27, G; Polyb. iv, 7, G), and which his fre- 
quent allusions to the Grecian games (q. v.) might im- 
ply, but rather that ascetic mortification of the fleshly 
appetites, and even innocent affections (comp. ver. 3; 
Col. ii, 23), which characterized some of the Jewish 


EXERCISES 


394 


EXILE 


fanatics (ver. 7), especially the Esscnes(q.v.). — Fleisch- ! 
maim, Interpretation in loc. ; Seelen, be Gymnasiis ad \ 
qwv. Panins (in hoe loc.) alludit (Lubec, 1758). See . 
Timothy. 

Exercises, Spiritual ( exercitia spirituality ), a ti- 
tle given by Romanists to certain exercises held under : 
the leadership generally of a confessor (magistt r exerci- 
tiomm ), for spiritual edification. They consist, gener- 
ally, in alternate meditations and prayers at regular- 
ly appointed hours, with seclusion, mortification, etc. 
These exercises arc practised both by clergy and laity, 
especially before communion, and as preparatory to the 
great Church festivals. Especially before ordination 
to the priesthood, such exercises are not only com- 
mended, but required of candidates. The most elabo- 
rate form of the exercises is that of Ignatius Loyola. 
Jlis method received the approbation of the pope, and 
Alexander VII granted, in a brief dated Oct. 12, 1657, 
full absolution to all, whether priests or laymen, who 
should submit to them for eight days in the houses of 
the Company of Jesns. These exercises consist in al- 
ternate meditations, readings, oral prayers, and self- 
scrutiny, as special preparation for the reception of the 
sacraments of penitence and communion. In case of 
there being several persons exercising together, silence 
is recommended as a duty. The new missions estab- 
lished by the Jesuits and Redemptorists make use of 
these exercises, transforming the work of sanctifica- 
tion into a dead mechanical action. — ITerzog, Real-Em- 
cyhlop. iii, 280 ; Aschbach, Ally. Kirchen-Lcx . ii, 707 ; 
Ferrari s,Promta Bibliotheca , iii, 916 sq. See Bellecius, 
Medulla asceseos sen exercitia Sancti Patt'is hjnatii (new 
ed. by Westhoff) ; and the articles Jesuits and Loy- 


the communion office, and in the office for the visita- 
tion of the sick, are called Exhortations. The first of 
these, beginning “ Dearly beloved brethren, the Scrip- 
ture moveth us,” etc., was introduced into the English 
formulary at the Reformation. Palmer (Orly. Liturg . 
i, 231) compares it to a passage in a sermon of Avitus 
of Vienne, fifth century. Procter ( Common Prayer , p. 
206) remarks that “ it was constructed partly from the 
preceding sentences, and partly by adaptations frem 
previously existing forms.” But, in fact, this exhor- 
tation, with the other opening portions of morning 
prayer, is chiefly due to a ritual drawn up by Calvin 
for the church at Strasburg, entitled La Forme des 
Priercs et Chantes ecclesiastiques (Strasburg, 1545). See 
Baird, Eutaxia (N. York, 1855, p. 101). The exhorta- 
tions to the communion were also introduced at the 
Reformation. “ The ancient Church, indeed, had no 
such exhortations, for their daily, or at least weekly 
communions made it known that there was then no 
solemn assembly of Christians without it, and every 
one (not under censure) was expected to communi- 
cate. But now, when the time is somewhat uncer- 
tain, and our long omissions have made some of us 
ignorant, and others forgetful of this duty ; most of 
us unwilling, and all of us more or less indisposed for 
it, it was thought both prudent and necessary to pro- 
vide these exhortations, to be read when the minister 
gives warning of the communion , which he is always to do 
upon the Sunday or some holy day immediately preceding' ’ 
(Wheatlv, On Common Prayer , p. 284). The second 
exhortation was compiled apparently by Teter Martyr 
at the instance of Bucer (Procter, On Common Prayer , 
p. 344). 


OLA. 

Exhortation (jrapctK\i)(nQ, strictly a calling near, 
invitation, and so “ entreaty," 2 Cor. viii,4; hence ad- 
monition, special hortatory instruction in public, Luke 
iii, 18 ; Acts xiii, 15 ; 1 Tim. iv, 13 ; also “ consolation" 
or comfort, Rom. xv, 4, etc.) seems to have been rec- 
ognised in the Apostolic Chnreh as a distinct super- 
natural or prophetic office or function (\;«pi(7/irt,“gift”) 
bestowed by the Iloly Spirit (Rom. xii, 8). As such, 
it was doubtless a subordinate exercise of the general 
faculty of teaching (1 Cor. xiv, 31). Olshanscn ( Com- 
ment. , in loc.) thinks that Paul docs not distinguish it 
as a special charism, but rather regards it as co-ordi- 
nate with eldership. See Gift (Spiritual). 

2. It is defined as “the act of laying such motives 
before a person as may excite him to the performance of 
any duty. It differs only from suasion in that the lat- 
ter principally endeavors to convince the understand- 
ing, and the former to work on the affections. It is 
considered as a great branch of preaching, though not 
confined to that, as a man may exhort, though he (lo 
not preach ; though a man can hardly be said to preach 
if he do not exhort. See Exiiorters. The Scrip- 
tures enjoin ministers to exhort men, that is, to rouse 
them to duty by proposing suitable motives (Isa. lviii, 
1; 1 Tim. vi, 2; lleb. iii, 13; Rom. xii, 8); it was 
likewise the constant practice of prophets, apostles, and 
Christ himself (Isa. i, 17 ; Jer. iv, 14; Ezek. xxxvii; 
Luke iii, 18; xii, 3; Acts xi, 23)” (Buck, Theological 
Dictionary, s. v.). “The above, and numerous oth- 
er passages of Scripture, indicate several important 
particulars : 1. That it was not beneath the dignity, 
or foreign to the office of the inspired apostles, fre- 
quently to exhort. 2. That they enjoined a similar 
practice and the duty of exhortation upon young min- 
isters of their day. 3. That exhortation, as separate 
from preaching, was the special office of a certain class 
of religious teachers in the New-Testameut Church. 
4. That mutual exhortation for their own profit and 
edification was enjoined by the apostles upon Chris- 
tians generally” (Kidder, Homiletics, p. 105). -See Ex- 
it outers. 

3. 1 n the hook of Common Prayer, the sliort address- 
es of the minister to the people in the daily service, in 


Exiiorters, a class of lay persons licensed in the 
Methodist Episcopal Church to exhort , not to preach. 
The leaders’ meeting (q. v.), or class (q. v.), recom- 
mend such persons, and the preacher issues the license. 
The duties of an exhorter are “ to hold meetings for 
prayer and exhortation wherever opportunity is af- 
forded, subject to the direction of the preacher in 
charge; to attend all the sessions of the Quarterly 
Conference; be subject to an annual examination of 
character in the Quarterly Conference, and renewal 
of license annually by the presiding elder, or preacher 
having the charge, if approved by the Quarterly Con- 
ference.” This office has been found very useful, Loth 
in the edification of the Church, and in developing the 
talent of persons likely to he called to the ministry. — 
Discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church , 1868, p. 
113,114. 

Exile (only occurs of an expatriated person, 
tsoeh', lent, “captive exile,” Isa. li, 14; goleh ', a 
transported captive, as elsewdiere often [see Banish]), 
Assyrio- Babylonian, of the Israclitish nation (comp. 
Ccllarii Dissertatt. p. 178 sq.). See also Captivity. 

1. Of the kingdom of Israel , as early as the time of 
Pekah (q. v.), B.C. cir. 741. Tiglath Pilcser (q. v .), 
in accordance with a cardinal maxim of Oriental des- 
pots (compare lleercn, Ideen , I, i, 405 sq. ; Gcsenius, 
Jesa . i, 040), transported to Assyria (2 Kings xv, 20; 
comp. Isa. viii, 23) a part of the inhabitants of Galilee 
and the trans-Jordanic provinces (Gilead). A still 
earlier deportation (1 Chron. v, 26) seems to have been, 
made by Pul (q. v.). After the destruction of Sama- 
ria (q. v.) and the entire northern state (B.C. 720) by 
Shalmaneser (q. v.), the same fate overtook all the 
I distinguished and serviceable Israelites (2 Kings xvii, 
6; x viii, 0 sq. ; 1 Chron. v, 26). They were assigned 
a residence on the Chnboras, in Mesopotamia [see 
| IIabor], and in Media (comp. Josephus, Ant. ix, 14, 
1), and there established the worship of Jehovah after 
j their corrupt fashion (2 Kings xvii, 27 sq.). See YTit- 
i sius, A*Jc«0tAoiy sire de decern tribnbus Jsr. (in his 
sEgyptiaca , p. 318 sq.) ; Michaelis, I)e exilio decern tri- 
buum (in his Commentt. Soc. Gott. Brem. 1774, p. 31 
sq.). Compare Israel (Kingdom of). - 


EXILE 


395 


EXILE 


J. Respecting the carrying awa}' of the Jews in sev- 
eral colonies, there are various accounts in the Hebrew 
historical books, which modern writers have not care- 
fully distinguished (see Hauer, Ileb. Gesch. ii, 370 sq. ; 
Jahn, Archaol. II, i, 190 sq. ; Bertholdt, Zeittafd znm 
Daniel , p. 503 sq.). ( a .) The books of Kings mention 

onlv two deportations : th q first occurred after the sur- 
render of Jerusalem to Nebuchadnezzar, in the time of 
Jehoiaehin (2 Kings xxiv, 14 sq. ; comp. Jer. xxvii, 
20 sq. ; in this was involved Mordecai (Esth. ii, 6), and 
it betel (besides the king himself) the affluent and use- 
ful citizens, 10,000 and upwards in number (Josephus 
says 10,832, Ant . x, 7, 1); the second was the result 
of a formal capture of Jerusalem by assault of the 
Chaldanns in the time of Zedekiah, and was effected 
by Nebuchadnezzar’s general (in that prince’s 19th 
year) Nebuzaradan (2 Kings xxv, 11). Only the com- 
mon people, devoted to agriculture, remained (2 Kings 
xxv, 12, 22). ( b .) The books of Chronicles expressly 

record only the carrying away under Zedekiah (2 
Chron. xxvi, 20), while (ver. 10), in mentioning the 
transportation of king Jehoiaehin, they say nothing of 
a deportation of the people at that time, (c.) Jer. lii, 
28 sq., specifies three distinct carryings away, and as- 
signs to each not only the number of those deported, 
but also a date : namely, the first deportation in the 
7th year (of Nebuchadnezzar, comp. ver. 29, 30), w hich 
consisted of 3023 Jews ; the second in the 18th of Neh- 
ueh., of 832 chiefs of Jerusalem; the third in the 23d 
of Neb., of 745 individuals. Finally (fZ.), according 
to Dan. i, 1, 3 sq., as early as the 3d year of Jehoia- 
kirn’s reign, some Jewish youths of noble families 
(among them Daniel himself) must have been carried 
to Babylon. These difficulties (see llengstenberg, 
Genuineness of Daniel [Clarke’s ed.], p. 43 sq., against 
De AVette, in the Hall. Encyclop. xxiii, 7 sq. ; Lengerke, 
Daniel , p. 13 sq.) are readily adjusted by observing, 
1st, that the years of Nebuchadnezzar in this passage 
of Jeremiah bear date from his full accession to the 
throne of Babylon (the beginning of B.C. 004), while 
those in Kings are reckoned from the epoch of his 
vicerovship, a little over one year earlier [see Nebu- 
chadnezzar] ; and, 2dlv, that the apparent discre- 
pancy in the number of citizens transported naturally 
arises from the different manner in which they are 
enumerated and classified in the several narratives. 
Thus viewed, the transactions will appear concisely as 
follows : 

1. (Early in B.C. GOG.) Nebuchadnezzar’s invasion, in the 
3d year of Jehoiakim (Dan. i, 1). 

2. (Summer of B.C. Gl>G.) Subjugation by Nebuchadnezzar 
in hi-? first associate year, and the 4th of Jehoiakim (Jer. xxv, 
1); when, besides some of the sacred vessels (2 Chron. xxxvi, 
7), a few royal youths were taken away as hostages, including 
Daniel and his companions (Dan. i, 2 sq.). 

3. (Spring of B.C. 59$. ) First general deportation, in the 
7th year of Nebuchadnezzar’s reitrn (Jer. lii, 28), or the Sth of 
his viceroysliip (2 Kings xxiv, 12), and the beginning of Je- 
lioiaclun’s reign (2 Kings xxiv, 8 ), when 3023 eminent Jews 
(Jer. lii, 28), including the king (2 Chron. xxxvi, 10), his fam- 
ily, and officers (2 Kings xxiv, 12), with such men as Morde- 
cai (Esth. ii, G), also some 70. (0 warriors (2 Kings xxiv, 1G), 
were carried away, making about 10,000 individuals of note 
(2 Kings xxiv, 14), besides about 1000 artisans (2 Kings xxiv, 
10), and leaving only the poorer classes of the city and its 
neighborhood (2 Kings xiv, 14). 

4. (bate in B.C. 5$$.) Second general deportation, in Nebu- 
chadnezzar’s 18th year of reign (Jer. lii, 20), or the 19th of his 
viceroy.-hip (2 Kings xxv, S), when, besides the rest of the sa- 
cred vessels (2 Chron. xxxvi, IS), 832 more of the principal 
men who had by that time rallied to Jerusalem were taken 
away (Jer. lii, 20), including especially the refugees (2 Kings 
xxv, 11), and leaving hut the commonest agricultural labor- 
ers (2 Kings xxv, 12). 

5. (Early in B.C!. 58*2.) Final deportation, in Nebuchadnez- 
zar’s 23d year (Jer. lii, 30), when the last 745 private p -rsons 
(Jer. lii, 30) who had not fled to Egypt (Jer. xliii, 5-7), nor 
been destroyed in the previous massacres (2 Chron. xxxvi, 20), 
were taken away — making 4G00 definitely enumerated (Jer. 
lii, GO), but in ail some 12, GOO male heads of families, with 
their wives, ohildren, and dependents, from Jerusalem and its 
vicinity alone, and a proportionate number from the residue 
of the country of J udsea. 

The Babylonian exile thus began with the Jews 


partially in B.C. 598, but generally in B.C. 588. It 
ended in the first year of the reign of Cyrus (over 
Babylon), i. e. B.C. 53G, and therefore lasted strictly 
51-52 years. The reckoning of Jeremiah, however 
(xxv, 11 sq. ; xxix, 10 ; compare 2 Chron. xxxvi, 21 ; 
Zech. i, 12 ; vii, 5 ; Josephus, IFar, v, 9, 4), which as- 
signs it a length of 70 years, is to be understood as 
computed from Nebuchadnezzar’s invasion of Western 
Asia in B.C, GOG, when, as appears from Dan. i, 1 sq., 
some of the members of the royal family of Judah 
were carried into captivity, in fulfilment of Isa. xxxix, 
G, 7. (See Offerhaus, Spicilegium , p. 181 sq. ; Schroer, 
Regn. Dabgl. p. 28G sq.). This was the more natural 
epoch to the Jews, inasmuch as from that time Nebu- 
chadnezzar became to all intents and purposes the 
liege lord of the Jewish kings, and in the above table 
we see the years of his reign are dated accordingly. 
It is a remarkable coincidence that from the date of 
the destruction of the Temple, B.C. 588 (2 Kings xxv, 
8), to the time of its complete restoration, B.C. 517 
(Ezra vi, 15), is precisely the commensurate (and sa- 
cred) term of 70 years ; and this period is sometimes 
employed as an mra by the sacred writers (Ezek. xl, 
1). Other very strained conjectures as to this time 
are those ofBehm (in Iken and Hase’s Thesaur. theol. 
philol. i, 954 sq.), Bengel ( Ordo temporum , p. 19G sq.), 
etc. Ideler deems the desolation of the Temple to be 
exclusively referred to ( Handbuch d. Chronol. i, 530). 
Gramberg ( Religionsid . ii, 388 sq.) and Hitzig ( 'Jerem . 
p. 230) tliink the 70 years merely a round number. 
See Seventy Years’ Captivity. 

The condition of the Hebrews in the exile was cer- 
tainly, as a general thing, not so severe (Jahn, Arch'd- 
ologie , II, i, 209 ; comp. Leydecker, De var. reip. Hebr. 
statu , p. 299 sq., especially p. 310 sq. ; Verbrugge, De 
statu ac condit. Judceorum tempore exit. Babyl ., in his 
work De no min. Ilebr. plur. nwn. [Groning. 1730], p. 
71 sq.) as is usually held. Most of them became set- 
tled (Jer. xxix, 5 sq.), and acquired property, even to 
affluence (Tob. i, 22, 25 ; ii, 1 ; vi, 13 ; viii, 21 ; ix, 3 ; 
x, 11 ; xiv, 15, etc.), and the possession of slaves (Tob. 
viii, 14 sq. ; xi, 10). Several were taken to court (Dan. 

i, 3 sq., 19), and even promoted to high station (Dan. 

ii, 48 sq. ; vi, 2; compare Esth. x, 3), or were honored 
with important trusts (Tob. i, 1G) ; indeed, in one in- 
stance a Jewess actually reached queenly dignities 
(Esth. ii, 17). They also appear to have kept up in 
some sort their national constitution (Ezek. xiv, i ; xx, 
1 ; Susan, v, 28), and to have maintained among them- 
selves an observance of the Mosaic law (Tob. vii, 14 ; 
Susan, v, 62). According to the Talmud (li. Gedaliah 
in Shalshcl. HaJckab. folio 13; Gemara, Makkoth , i, 1 ; 
Sankedr. i, 12 and 21), they were under the general di- 
rection of an aichmalotarch (q. v.), or “ chief of the ex- 
iles” (P.sibsil £N'), one of their own nation (Bnddiei 
Hist. Vet. T. ii, 863). Religious discipline was exer- 
cised among them ; but, as they could not lawfully of- 
fer sacrifice outside Jerusalem, their worship necessa- 
rily consisted of prayer (and public reading, out of 
which naturally grew expounding) in stated assem- 
blies (comp. Psa. cxxxvii). See Synagogue. They 
did not lack strong comfort and exhortation : Ezekiel 
(q. v.) lifted in their midst liis prophetic voice, and 
Jeremiah (q. v.) sent them from afar a monitory epis- 
tle (chap. xxix). Probably many surrendered them- 
selves to levity and vice (Ezek. xxxiii, 31), and yield- 
ed an ear to false prophets (Jer. xxix, 21; but comp. 
Tob. ii, 14 sq., 22). 

Of the permission to return to Palestine, which Cy- 
rus granted to the entire people (Ezra i, 5 ; vii, 13), 
Jews alone, in the first instance at least, availed them- 
selves (Ezra ii; Neh. vii; comp. Josephus, Ant. xi, 5, 
2: “But the whole people of the Israelites remained 
in the same country . . . The ten tribes are beyond 
the Euphrates to this day, unknown and innumerable 
myriads”); for the return mentioned in Ezra ii, 1, is 


EXIXAXITIOX 


396 


EXODE 


only of such exiles as had been carried away by Neb- 
uchadnezzar, and in the list there following there are 
(besides priests and Levites) only recited Judahites 
and Benjamites; nor can “Israel” (ver. 59; compare 
Neh. vii, f»l) be there referred to the former kingdom 
so called. The indications of Jer. 1, 4 sq., 17, 19 ; Ezek. 
xxxvii, 11 sq., had, moreover, not at that time been 
fulfilled (the date in 1 Chron. v, ‘26 is uncertain ; Keil, 
On Kiwjs, p. 497, n.). (See Witsius, AuccapvXov, p. 
341 sq. ; bitter, Erdk. x, 250.) Yet it cannot well be 
doubted that many of the exiles from the northern 
kingdom, who were likewise embraced in the decree 
of Cyrus, and at the time included in his dominions, 
did eventually join their Jewish brethren, if not in 
some of the homeward expeditions named in Scripture 
as having taken place under Ezra, Zernbbabel, and 
Nehemiah, yet in some smaller, later, or less distin- 
guished companies. This supposition is not only jus- 
tified by the nature of the case, but fortified by the nu- 
merous intimations in the prophets (e. g. Jer. 1, 4, 5, 
17-20, 33-35) coupling the return of both the kingdoms 
(see Meth. Quart. Review , July, 1855, p. 419 sq.), and is 
well-nigh established by the Palestinian occurrence in 
a late age of individuals from the northern tribes (e. g. 
Luke ii, 36 ; comp. Acts xxvi, 7). What proportion 
thus returned we have no means of determining; it 
was doubtless small, as was indeed that of the exiles 
from the southern tribes compared with the great mass 
who still remained in the land of their captivity, now 
become their home. Community of lot must have 
drawn both branches of the common stock of Israel | 
nearer together during the captivity under the same 
heathen government, and it is altogether likely that j 
in a few centuries those who permanently remained 
lost all trace of the sectarian distinction that had once 
estranged “ Judah and Ephraim.” See Restoration 
(of the Jews). 

The descendants of those who did not return either 
centred at certain points, especially Babylon (q. v.), 
where they afterwards became celebrated for their 
Jewish schools of Rabbinical literature; or, as was 
chiefly the case, it may be presumed, with the more 
distant and earlier removed ten tribes, wandered still 
farther in numerous Jewish colonies into the Medo- 
Babvlonian provinces (Lightfoot, Append, to Ilor. 
Ilebr. in Acts, p. 264 sq.), remnants of which have 
survived to a late day (Benj. of Tudcla, quoted in Rit- 
ter, Erdk. x, 241 sq.). It is possible even that the 
Samaritans may have owed their mongrel origin to 
some such source (Gesenius, De Pentai. Samar, p. 4), 
as they were transplanted to Palestine before the de- 
portation of the Jews, and yet sufficiently late to have 
allowed a partial amalgamation with the heathen 
whence they came to have taken place, and especially 
as they had only the Pentateuch (Paul us, in Eicli- 
horn’s Diblioth. i, 931). From the provinces of the 
Persian empire the Jewish colonists may readily have 
spread into Arabia, India, and even China. Wild at- 
tempts at their discovery have been abundantly made, 
such as those of Adair (. History of the A men can Indians , 
Loud. 1775), Noah ( The Amer. Indians the Descendants 
of the ten Lost Tribes of Israel , N. Y. 1835), and Grant 
(A T estorians, or the Ijost Tribes , N. Y. 1841). — Winer, i, 
357. See Dispersed Jews. 

Exinanitiou. See Christology (vol. ii, p. 281, 
col. 2). 

Existence of God. See God. 

Exocontians (or Exoucontians, ’E^oufcoprtm), 
a name given to the strict Arians, because they main- 
tained that Christ was created ovk ovtwv* before 
the beginning of things. The}’ were also called Ano- 
mceans, Aetians. See these titles, and also Arians. 

Exode OF THE ISRAELITES from Egypt to 
Canaan (usually referred to In Ileb. by the phrase 

Vv?- '^7^? *\3rrrx njn? H^in, ‘ ; The 


Lord did bring the children of Israel out of the land of 
Egypt,” Exod. xii, 51; to which is often emphatical- 
ly added, Xpjn* 1 “£3, “ with a mighty 

hand and an outstretched arm,” Deut. xxvi, 8, to ex- 
press the miraculous interventions of Providence in. 
the series of events), the great national epoch of the 
Hebrew people, in fact their “independence day,” and 
as such constantly referred to in all their subsequent 
history and vaticinations. Several of the Psalms are 
but a poetical rehearsal of its scenes (e. g. Psa. cxiv, 
exxxvi); it is the burden of Ilabakkuk's lofty ode 
(Hab. iii) ; and besides the recapitulation of many of 
its incidents by Moses in Deuteronomy, it constitutes 
the main topic of one of the hooks of Scripture. The 
following account, with the exception of the date of 
the event, and the identifications of the place of cross- 
ing the Red Sea and of the stations in the desert, is 
chiefly compiled from the articles in Kitto and Smith. 
See Exodus. 

I. Date . — The particular Egyptian monarch under 
whom this great event, the first definite link of the 
Hebrew with other ancient history, occurred, is so dif- 
ferently identified with those of earl}’- profane chroni- 
cles, and of the monuments by various Egyptologers, 
that but little reliance, unfortunately, can be placed 
upon any of them, based as they almost entirely are 
upon conjectural adaptations or arbitrary premises. 
The only one of these hypotheses that seems to afford 
any independent evidence of agreement is that lately 
propounded by Osburn (in the Journ. of Sac. Lit. for 

i July, 1860), who conceives that the Egyptian king in 
| question was Setlios II, the grandson of the great Se- 
I sostris, but of so odious a character and so iuglorious a 
| reign that his sarcophagus was demolished and his car- 
touche effaced by the early Egyptians themselves. See 
ITiaraoii. This king, however, began to reign about 
B.C. 1240, a date entirely too late for the event un- 
der consideration. The historical questions connected 
with this point are noticed under Egypt. Hales places 
the Exode in B.C. 1618, Usher in B.C. 1491, Bunsen 
in B.C. 1320, and Poole in B.C. 1652. A careful colla- 
tion of the Biblical elements of the calculation, the 
only definite and trustworthy data, point to the spring 
of B.C. 1658 as the most probable date of the begin- 
ning of the series of exodic transactions. See Chro- 
nology. As to the account of the Exode given by 
Manetho, it was confessedly a mere popular story, for 
he admitted it was not a part of the Egyptian records, 
but a tale of uncertain authorship (Josephus, c. Apion . 
i, 16). A critical examination shows that it cannot 
claim to be a veritable tradition of the Exode : it is, 
indeed, if based on any such tradition, so distorted that 
it is impossible to be sure that it relates to the king to 
whose reign it is assigned. Y~et, upon the supposition 
that the king is really Menptah, son of Rameses II, 
the advocates of the Rabbinical date entirely base their 
adjustment of Hebrew with Egyptian history at this 
period. See Manetho. 

II. The Outset. — The Exode is a great turning- 
point in Biblical history. With it the patriarchal dis- 
pensation ends and the law begins, and with it the Is- 
raelites cease to be a family and become a nation. It 
is therefore important to observe how the previous his- 
tory led to this event. The advancement of Joseph, 
and the placing of his kinsmen in what was, to a pas- 
toral people at least, “the best of the land,” yet. as 
far as possible, apart from Egyptian influence, favor- 
ed the multiplying of the Israelites and the preserva- 
tion of their nationality. The subsequent persecution 
hound them more firmly together, and at the same 
time loosened the hold that Egypt had gained upou 
them. It was thus that the Israelites were ready, 
when Moses declared his mission, to go forth as one 
man from the land of their bondage. See Joseph. 

The intention of Jehovah to deliver the Israelites from 
Egyptian bondage was made known to Moses from the 


EXODE 


397 


EXODE 


burning bush at Mount Iloreb, while he kept the floek 
of Jethro, his father-in-law. Under the divine direc- 
tion, Moses, in conjunction with Aaron, assembled the 
elders of the nation, and acquainted them with the 
gracious design of Heaven. After this they had an 
interview with Pharaoh, and requested permission for 
the people to go, in order to hold a feast unto God in 
the wilderness. The result w r as not only refusal, but 
the doubling of all the burdens which the Israelites 
had previously had to bear. Moses hereupon, suffer- 
ing reproach from his people, consults Jehovah, who 
assures him that he would compel Pharaoh “ to drive 
them out of his land.” “I will rid you out of their 
bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched-out 
arm and with great judgments” (Exod. iii-vi, C). Then 
ensue a series of miracles (Exod. vi-xii), commonly 
called the Pi.agues of Egypt (q. v.). At last, over- 
come by the calamities sent upon him, Pharaoh yield- 
ed all that was demanded, saying, “Rise up, and get 
you forth from among my people, both ye and the 
children of Israel; and go serve the Lord as ye have 
said; also take your flocks and your herds, and be 
gone.” Thus driven out, the Israelites, to the num- 
ber of about GOO, 000 adults, besides children, left the 
land, attended by a mixed multitude, with their flocks 
and herds, even very much cattle (Exod. xii, 31 sq.). 
Being “thrust out” of the eountry, they had not time 
to prepare for themselves suitable provisions, and 
therefore they baked unleavened cakes of the dough 
which they brought forth out of Egypt. See Moses. 

On the night of the self-same day that terminated 
a period of 430 years, during which they had been in 
Egypt, were they led forth from Ramescs or Goshen. 
They are not said to have crossed the River Nile, 
whence we may infer that Goshen lay on the eastern [ 
side of the river. Their flrst station was at Suecoth 
(Exod. xii, 37). See Succoth. The nearest way into 
the Land of Promise was through the land of the Phi- 
listines. This route would have required them to keep 
on in a north-east direction. It pleased their divine 
conductor, however, not to take this path, lest, being 
opposed by the Philistines, the Israelites should turn 
back at the sight of war into Egypt. If, then, Philis- 
tia was to be avoided, the course would lie nearly di- 
rect east, or south-east. Pursuing this route, “ the ar- 
mies” come to Etham, their next station, “ in the edge 
of the wilderness” (Exod. xiii, 17 sq.). Here they en- 
camped. Dispatch, however, was desirable. They 
journey day and night, not without divine guidance, 
for “ the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of 
a cloud, to lead them the way, and by night in a pil- 
lar of fire, to give them light, to go by day and night.” 
This special guidance could not well have been meant 
merely to show the way through the desert, for it can : 
hardly be supposed that in so great a multitude no 
persons knew the road over a eountry lying near to 
that in which they and their ancestors had dwelt, and 
which did not exceed more than some forty miles : 
across. The divine guides were doubtless intended 
to conduct the Israelites in that way and to that spot 
where the hand of God would be most signally dis- i 
played in their rescue and in the destruction of Pha- 
raoh. See Pillar. 

The Land of Goshen may be concluded, from the 
Biblical narrative, to have been part of Egypt, but not 
of what was then held to he Egypt proper. It must 
therefore have been an outer eastern province of Low- < 
er Egypt. It is enough here to say that it was on the i 
eastern side of the Nile, probably in the province of i 
Esh-Shurkiveh. Raineses was the place of rendez- 
vous. But it is evident, from the frequent communi- 
cations of Moses with the Egyptian court on the one i 
hand, and with the Israelites on the other, that the 1 
latter must have been, at the time of starting, eongre- i 
gated at a point not far from the capital. They could ' 
only, therefore, have gone by the valley now called < 
the wady et-Tumeyl&t, for every other cultivated or ' 


cultivable tract is too far from the Red Sea. In the 
Roman time, the route to Gaza from Memphis and Heli- 
opolis passed the western end of the wady et-Tunieyl&t, 
as may be seen by the Itinerary of Antoninus (Parthey, 
Zur Erdk. d. Alt. yEy/jptens, map vi), and the chief mod- 
ern route from Cairo to Syria passes along the wady 
et-TumeylM and leads to Gaza, (Wilkinson, Hand- 
book, new ed. p. 209). Rameses, as we shall see, must 
have lain in this valley, which thus corresponded in 
: part at least to Goshen. That it wholly corresponded 
to that region is evident from its being markedly a 
single valley, and from the insufficiency of any small- 
er territory to support the Israelites. See Gosiien. 
It is not difficult to fix very nearly the length of each 
day’s march of the Israelites. As they had with them 
women, children, and cattle, it cannot be supposed that 
they averaged more than fifteen miles daily; at the 
same time, it is unlikely that they fell far short of 
this. The three journeys would therefore give a dis- 
tance of about forty-five miles. There seems, howev- 
er, as we shall see, to have been a deflexion from a di- 
rect course, so that we cannot consider the whole dis- 
tance from the starting-point, Rameses, to the shore of 
the Red Sea, as much more than about forty miles in a 
direct line. Measuring from the western shore of the 
Arabian Gulf south-east of the wady et-Tumeylitt, a 
distance of forty miles in a direct line places the site 
of Rameses near the ruins called in the present day 
Abu Kesheib, not far from the middle of the valley. 
This is in accordance with the location of Robinson 
and Lepsius. That the Israelites started from a place 
in this position is farther evident from the account of 
the two routes that lay before them : “And it came to 
pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God led 
them not [by] the way of the land of the Philistines, 
although that [was] near; for God said, Lest pe rad- 
venture the people repent when they see war, and they 
return to Egypt; but God let the people turn to the 
way of the wilderness of the Red Sea” (Exod. xiii, 17, 
18). The expression used, -3*1, does not necessarily 
imply a change in the direction of the journey, but 
may mean that God did not lead the Israelites into 
Palestine by the nearest route, but took them about 
by the way of the wilderness. Were the meaning 
that the people turned, we should have to suppose 
Rameses to have been beyond the valley to the west, 
and this would probably make the distance to the Red 
Sea too great for the time occupied in traversing it, 
besides overthrowing the reasonable identification of 
the land of Goshen. Rameses is evidently the Ra- 
meses of Exod. i, 11. It seems to have been the chief 
town of the land of Goshen, for that region, or possibly 
a part of it, is called the land of ‘Rameses in Gen. xlvii, 
11 ; eomp. 4, G. See Rameses. 

1. The direct route thence to the Red Sea was along 
the valley of the ancient canal. If, however, they 
rendezvoused near the metropolis, their route would 
be different. From the vicinity of Cairo there runs a 
range of hills eastward to the Red Sea, the western ex- 
tremity of which, not far from Cairo, is named Jebel- 
Mokattem ; the eastern extremity is termed Jebel- 
Ataka, which, with its promontory Ras Ataka, runs 
into the Red Sea. Between the two extremes, some- 
where about the middle of the range, is an opening 
whieh affords a road for caravans. Two routes offer- 
ed themselves here. Supposing that the actual start- 
ing-point lay nearer Cairo, the Israelites might strike 
in from the north of the range of hills at the opening 
just mentioned, and pursue the ordinary caravan road 
whieh leads from Cairo to Suez ; or they might go 
southward from Mokattem, through the wady et-Tih, 
that is, the Valiev of Wandering, through which also a 
road, though less used, runs to Suez. According to 
Niebuhr, they took the first; according to ancient tra- 
dition, Father Sieard ( Ueber der Werj der Israeliten\ 
Paulus ( Samml . v, 211 sq.), and others, they took the 


EXODE 


398 


EXODE 


Jast. Sicard found traces of the Israelites in the val- 
ley. He held 1 Jameses to be the starting-point, and 
Humeses he placed about six miles from ancient Cairo, 
where llezatin is now found. Here is a capacious 
gaudy plain, on which Sicard thinks the Israelites as- j 
scmblcd on the morning when they began their jour- ‘ 
pev. In this vicinity a plain is still found, which the 
Arabs call the Jews’ Cemetery, and where, from an in- 
definite period, the Jews have buried their dead. In 
the Mokattem chain is a hill, a part of which is called 
Mejanat Musa, “ Moses's Station.” On another hill in 
the vicinity ruins are found, which the Arabs name 
Mcravad Musa, “ Moses’s Delight.” Thus several 
things seem to carry the mind back to the time of the 
Hebrew legislator. Through the valley which leads 
from Bezatin (the Valley of Wandering) to the lied 
Sea, Sicard travelled in three days. lie reckons the 
length to be twenty-six hours, which, if we give two 
miles to each hour (Iiobinson), would make the dis- 
tance fifty-two miles. This length is also assigned by 
Girard ( Descrip . Topograp.de la Vallee de V Egaremenf). 
The valley, running pretty much in a plain surface, 
would afford a convenient passage to the mixed bands 
of Israelites. About eighteen miles from Bezatin you 
meet with Gendelhy, a plain with a fountain. The 
name signifies a military station, and in this Sicard 
finds the Succoth (tents) of Exodus, the first station of 
Moses. The haste with which they left (were driven 
out) would enable them to reach this place at night- 
fall of their first day's march. Sicard places their 
second station, Etham, in the plain Tiamliyeh, eighteen 
miles from Gendelhy, and sixteen from the sea. From 
this plain is a pass four miles in length, so narrow that 
not more than twenty men can go abreast. To avoid 
this, which would have caused dangerous delay, the 
order was given them to turn (Exod. xiv, 2). Etham 
is said (Exod. xiii, 20) to be. on the edge of the wilder- 
ness. Jablonski says the word means “terminus ma- 
ns, ” the termination or boundary of the sea. Now, in 
the plain where Sicard fixes Etham (not to be confound- 
ed with the Eastern Etham, through which afterwards 
the Israelites travelled three days, Numb, xxxiii, S'), 
is the spot where the waters divide which run to the 
Nile and to the Gulf of Suez, and Etham is therefore 
truly terminus mans . 

On the other hand, if, as the position of Iiameses, 
and the nature of the ground between that point and 
the bead of the gulf seems to indicate, they pursued 
the direct route thence down the valley of the bitter 
lakes, we may locate Succoth not far from the ruins 
of Serapeum, and Etham at a point about half way be- 
tween that spot and the head of the gulf; for we may 
suppose that the encumbered multitude made but lit- 
tle. progress the first day, whereas on the third their 
march may have been quickened by apprehensions of 
the approaching Egyptians in pursuit. See Etiiaji. 

2. At the end of the second day’s march, for each 
camping-place seems to mark the close of a day's jour- 
ney, the route appears to have been altered from the 
natural thoroughfare around the head of the gulf. 
The first passage relating to the journey, after the 
mention of the encamping at Etham, is this, stating a 
command given to Moses: “Speak unto the children 
of Israel that they turn [or ‘ return’] and encamp [or 
‘that thc} r encamp again,’ *12rP) before Pi- 

hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, over against 
Baal-zephon” (Exod. xiv, 2). This explanation is 
added: “And Pharaoh will say of the children of Is- 
rael, They [arc] entangled in the land, the wilderness 
hath shut them in*’ (vcr. 3). The rendering of the A. 
V., “That they turn and encamp,” seems to us the 
most probable of those we have given: “return'’ is 
the closer translation, but appears to be difficult to 
reconcile, with the narrative of the route ; for the more 
likely inference is that the direction was changed, not 
that the people returned: the third rendering does not 


appear probable, as it does not explain the entangle* 
ment. It is most likely that they at once tinned, al- 
though they may have done so later in the march. 
The direction cannot be doubted, for they would have 
been entangled (ver. 5) only by turning southward, 
not northward. They encamped for the night by the 
sea, probably after a full day’s journey. Pi-hahiroth 
(the month of the hiding-places) Sicard identifies with 
Tuarek (small caves), which is the name still given to 
three or four salt springs of the plain Baideah, on the 
south side of Mount Attaka, which last Sicard iden- 
tifies with Baal-zephon, and which is the northern 
boundary of the plain Baideah, while Kulalali (Mig- 
dol) is its southern limit. But we would prefer to 
transpose these names, assigning Migdol to Jebel Atta- 
ka, and Baal-zephon to Jehel Deraj or lvulalah, while 
Wady Tu warik will remain for Pi-hahiroth. (See each 
in its order.) The pass which leads to Suez, between 
Attaka and the sea, is very narrow, and could easih r be 
stopped l>v the Egyptians. In this plain of Baideah 
Pharaoh had the Israelites hemmed in on all sides. 
This, then, according to all appearance, is the spot 
where the passage through the sea was effected. Such 
is the judgment of Sicard and of Iiaumer ( Der Zug dcr 
Israehten , Leipzig, 1837 ; for a description of the Valley 
of Wandering, see also Ritter, Erdlcumle , i, 858). It 
cannot be denied that this route satisfies all the con- 
ditions of the case. Equally does the spot correspond 
with the miraculous narrative furnished by holy writ. 
A different route is laid down by Niebuhr ( Arab . p. 
407). Other writers, who, like him, endeavor to ex- 
plain the facts without the aid of miracle, imitate his 
example. (See below.) 

It is no small corroboration of the view now given 
from Sicard and Raumer that in substance it has the 
support of Josephus, of whose account we shall, from 
its importance, give an abridgment. The Hebrews, 
he says, took their journej’ by Latopolis, where Baby- 
lon was built afterwards when Cambyses laid Egypt 
waste. As they went in haste, on the third day they 
came to a place called Baal-zephon, on the Red Sea. 
Moses led them this way in order that the Egyptians 
might be punished should they venture in pursuit, and 
also because the Hebrews had a quarrel with the Phil- 
istines. AYben the Egyptians had overtaken the He- 
brews they prepared to fight them, and by their multi- 
tude drove them into a narrow place ; for the number 
that went in pursuit was GOO chariots, 50,000 horse- 
men, and 200,000 infantry, all armed. They also 
seized the passages, shutting the Hebrews up between 
inaccessible precipices and the sea ; for there was on 
each side a ridge of mountains that terminated at the 
sea, which were impassable, and obstructed their flight. 
Moses, however, prayed to God, and smote the sea with 
his rod, when the waters parted, and gave the Israel- 
ites free passage. The Egyptians at first supposed 
them distracted ; but when they saw the Israelites pro- 
ceed in safety, they followed. As soon as the entire 
Egyptian army was in the channel, the sea closed, and 
the pursuers perished amid torrents of rain and the 
most terrific thunder and lightning (Ant. ii, 15). 

111. Passage of the Red Sea . — This was the crisis of 
the Exode. It was the miracle by which the Israel- 
ites left Egypt and were delivered from the oppressor. 
All the particulars relating to this event, and especial- 
ly those which show its miraculous character, require 
careful examination. 

1. It is usual to suppose that the most northern place 
at which the Red Sea could have been crossed is the 
present head of the Gulf of Suez. This supposition de- 
pends upon the idea that in the time of Moses the gulf 
did not extend farther to the northward than at pres- 
ent. An examination of the country north of Suez 
has convinced some geographers, however, that the 
sea has receded many miles, and that this change has 
taken place within the historical period, possibly in ful- 
filment of the prophecy of Isaiah (xi,15; xix,5; comp. 


EXODE 


399 


EXODE 


Zech. x, 11). The old bed is thought by them to be 
indicated by the Birket et-Timsah, or “Lake of the 
Crocodile,” and the more southern bitter lakes, the 
northernmost part of the former corresponding to the 
ancient head of the gulf. In previous centuries it is 
not supposed that the gulf extended farther north, but 
that it was deeper in its northernmost part. We are 
inclined to believe, however, that such a change, if it 
ever took place, cannot materially affect the question 
of the place of the Israelites’ passage. 

From Pi-hah iro til the Israelites crossed the sea. 
The only points bearing on geography in the account 
of this event are that the sea was divided by an east 
wind, whence we may reasonably infer that it was 
crossed from west to east, and that the whole Egyptian 
army perished, which shows that it must have been 
some miles broad. Pharaoh took at least six hundred 
chariots, which, three abreast, would have occupied 
about half a mile, and the rest of the army cannot be 
supposed to have taken up less than several times that 
space. Even if in a broad formation some miles would 
have been required. It is more difficult to calculate 
the space taken up by the Israelitish multitude, but 
probably it was even greater. On the whole, we may 
reasonably suppose about twelve miles as the smallest 
breadth of the sea. 

2. A careful examination of the narrative of the 
passage of the Red Sea is necessary to a right under- 
standing of the event. When the Israelites had de- 
parted, Pharaoh repented that he had let them go. 
News is carried to the monarch which leads him to see 
that the reason assigned (namely, a sacrifice in the 
wilderness) is but a pretext; that the Israelites bad 
really fled from his yoke ; and also that, through some 
(to him) unaccountable error, they had gone towards 
the south-east, had reached the sea, and were hemmed 
in on all sides. He summons his troops and sets out 
in pursuit — “all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, 
and his horsemen and his army;” and he “overtook 
them encamping by the sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, before 
Baal-zephon” (Exod. xiv, 9). It might be conjec- 
tured, from one part of the narrative (ver. 1-4), that 
he determined to pm sue them when he knew that they 
had encamped before Pi-liahiroth, did not what follows 
this imply that he set out soon after they had gone, 
and also indicate that the place in question refers to 
the pursuit through the sea, not to that from the city 
whence he started (ver. 5-10). This city was most 
probably Zoan, and could scarcely have been much 
nearer to Pi-hahiroth, and the distance is therefore too 
great to have been twice traversed, first by those who 
told Pharaoh, then by Pharaoh’s army, within a few 
hours. The strength of Pharaoh’s army is not far- 
ther specified than by the statement that “he took six 
hundred chosen chariots, and [or ‘even’] all the chari- 
ots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them” 
(ver. 7). The war-chariots of the Egyptians held each 
but two men, an archer and a charioteer. The former 
must be intended by the word rendered in the 

A. V. “ captains.” Throughout the narrative the char- 
iots and horsemen of Pharaoh are mentioned, and “the 
horse and his rider” (xv, 21) are spoken of in Miriam's 
song, but we can scarcely infer henee that there was 
in Pharaoh’s army a body of horsemen as well as of 
men in chariots, as in ancient Egyptian the chariot- 
force is always called IITARor IIETIIA, “the horse,” 
and these expressions may therefore be respectively 
pleonastic and poetical. There is no evidence in the 
records of the ancient Egyptians that they used caval- 
ry, and, therefore, had the Biblical narrative express- 
\y mentioned a force of this kind, it might have been 
thought conclusive of the theory that the Pharaoh of the 
Exode was a shepherd-king. With this army, which, 
even if a small one, was mighty in comparison with 
the Israelitish multitude, encumbered with women, 
children, and cattle, Pharaoh overtook the people “ en- 


camping by the sea” (ver. 9). When the Israelites saw 
the oppressor’s army they were terrified, and murmured 
against Moses. “Because [there were] no graves in 
Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilder- 
ness ?” (ver. 11.) Along the bare mountains that skirt 
the valley of Upper Egypt are abundant sepulchral 
grottoes, of which the entrances are conspicuously seen 
from the river and the fields it waters : in the sandy 
slopes at the foot of the mountains are pits without 
number and many built tombs, all of ancient times. 
Xo doubt the plain of Lower Egypt, to which Mem- 
phis, with part of its far-extending necropolis, belong- 
ed politically, though not geographically, was through- 
out as well provided with places of sepulture. The Is- 
raelites recalled these cities of the dead, and looked 
with Egyptian horror at the prospect that their car- 
casses should be left on the face of the wilderness. 
Better, they said, to have continued to serve the Egyp- 
tians than thus to perish (ver. 12). Then Moses en- 
couraged them, bidding them see how God would save 
them, and telling them that they should behold their 
enemies no more. There are few eases in the Bible in 
which those for whom a miracle is wrought are com- 
manded merely to stand by and see it. Generally the 
divine support is promised to those who use their ut- 
most exertions. It seems from the narrative that 
Moses did not know at this time how the people would 
be saved, and spoke only from a heart full of faith, for 
we read, “And the Lord said unto Moses, Wherefore 
criest thou unto me ? Speak unto the children of Israel 
that they go forward; but lift thou up thy rod, and 
stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it ; and 
the children of Israel shall go on dry [ground] through 
the midst of the sea” (ver. 15, 1G). That night the 
two armies, the fugitives and the pursuers, w'ere en- 
camped near together. Here a very extraordinary 
event takes place: “The angel of God, which went 
before the camp of Israel, removed and went behind 
them ; and the pillar of the cloud went from before 
their face and stood behind them; and it came between 
the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel ; and 
it was a cloud and darkness to them, but it gave light 
by night to these; so that the one came not near the 
other all the night” (ver. 19, 20). The monuments of 
Egj'pt portray an encampment of an army of Raineses 
II during a campaign in Syria ; it is well-planned and 
carefully guarded: the rude modem Arab encamp- 
ments bring before ns that of Israel on this memorable 
night. Perhaps in the camp of Israel the sounds of 
the hostile camp might be heard on the one hand, and 
on the other the roaring of the sea. But the pillar 
was a bander and a sign of deliverance. The time 
had now come for the great decisive miracle of the 
Exode. “And Moses stretched out his hand over 
the sea : and the Lord caused the sea to go [back] by 
a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea dry 
| [land], and the waters were divided. And the chil- 
dren of Israel went through the midst of the sea upon 
the dry [ground]; and the waters [were] a wall unto 
them on their right hand and on their left” (ver. 21, 

I 22; comp. 29). The narrative distinctly states that a 
path was made through the sea, and that the waters 
i were a wall on either hand. The term “wall” does 
j not appear to oblige us to suppose, as many have done, 
that the sea stood up like a cliff on either side, but 
should rather be considered to mean a harrier; ss the 
former idea implies a seemingly needless addition to 
the miracle, while the latter seems to he not discordant 
with the language of the narrative. It was during the 
night that the Israelites crossed, and the Egyptians 
! followed. In the morning watch, the last third or 
[ fourth of the night, or the period before sunrise, Pha- 
raoh’s army was in full pursuit in the divided sea (ver. 
23-25). Delays are now occasioned to the Egyptians; 
their chariot-wheels are supernatural^ taken off, so 
that “ in the morning-watch they drave them heavi- 
ly.” The Egyptians are troubled; they urge each 


EXODE 


400 


EXODE 


other to fly from the face of Israel. Then was Moses 
commanded again to stretch out his hand, and the sea 
returned to its strength and overwhelmed the Egyp- 
tians, of whom not one remained alive (ver. 26-28). 
The statement is so explicit that there could be no rea- 
sonable doubt that Pharaoh himself, the great offend- 
er, was at last made an example, and perished with 
his army, did it not seem to be distinctly stated in Psa. 
cxxxvi that he w'as included in the same destruction 
(ver. 15). The sea east up the dead Egyptians, whose 
bodies the Israelites saw upon the shore. From the 
song of triumph which Moses sang upon this occasion 
we learn some other particulars, as that 11 the depths 
covered Pharaoh's host, they sank to the bottom as a 
stone;” language which, "whatever deduction may be 
made for its poetic character, implies that the miracle 
took place in deep water (Exod. xv; comp. Psa. evi, 
9sq.). In a later passage some particulars are men- 
tioned which are not distinctly stated in the narrative 
in Exodus. The place is indeed a poetical one, but its 
meaning is clear, and we learn from it that at the time 
of the passage of the sea there was a storm of rain, with 
thunder and lightning, perhaps accompanied by an 
earthquake (Psa. Ixxvii, 15-20), To this Paul may 
allude where he says that the fathers u w'ere all bap- 
tized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea” (1 Cor. 
x, 2); for the idea of baptism seems to involve either 
immersion or sprinkling, and the latter could have 
here occurred : the reference is evidently to the pillar 
of the cloud : it would, however, be impious to attempt 
an explanation of what is manifestly miraculous. ^ 
These additional particulars may illustrate the troub- 
ling of the Egyptians, for their chariots may have been 
thus overthrown. I 

Here, at the end of their long oppression, delivered | 
finally from the Egyptians, the Israelites glorified 
God. In what words they sang his praise we know 
from the Song of Moses, wdiich, in its vigorous brevity, 
represents the events of that memorable night, scarcely 
of less moment than the night of the Passover (Exod. 
xv, 1-18; ver. 19 is probably a kind of comment, not 
part of the song). Moses seems to have sung this 
song with the men, Miriam with the women also sing- 
ing and dancing, or perhaps there were two choruses 
(ver. 20, 21). Such a picture does not recur in the his- 
tory of the nation. Neither the triumphal song of 
Deborah, nor the rejoicing when the Temple was re- 
covered from the Syrians, celebrated so great a deliv- 
erance, or was joined in by the whole people. In 
leaving Goshen, Israel became a nation ; after cross- 
ing the sea, it was free. There is evidently great sig- 
nificance, as we have suggested, in Paul’s use of this 
miracle as a type of baptism ; for, to make the analogy 
complete, it must have been the beginning of a new 
period of the life of the Israelites. 

3. The importance of this event in Biblical history 
is shown by the manner in which it is spoken of in the 
books of the O. T. written in later times. In them it 


is the chief fact of Jewish history. Not the call of 


Abraham, not the rule of Joseph, not the first Pass- 
over, not the conquest of Canaan, are referred to iii 
such a manner as this great deliverance. In the 
Psalms it is related as foremost among the deeds that 
God had wrought for his people. The prophet Isaiah 
recalls it as the great manifestation of God’s interfer- 
ence for Israel, and an encouragement for the descend- 
ants of those who witnessed that great sight. There 
are events so striking that they are remembered in the 
life of a nation, and that, like great heights, increasing 
distance only gives them more majesty. So no doubt 
was this remembered long after those were dead who 
saw the sen return to its strength and the warriors of 
Pharaoh dead upon the shore. 

It may be inquired how it is that there seems to 
have been no record or tradition of this miracle among 
the Egyptians. This question involves that of the 
time in Egyptian history to which this event should [ 


be assigned. The date of the Exode, according to 
different chronologcrs, varies more than three hundred 
years ; the dates of the Egyptian dynasties ruling dur- 
ing this period of three hundred years var} r fully one 
hundred. The period to which the Exode may he 
assigned therefore virtually corresponds to four hun- 
dred years of Egyptian history. If the lowest date of 
the beginning of the 18th dynasty be taken, and the 
highest date of the Exode, both which w T e consider 
the most probable of those that have been conjec- 
tured in the two cases, the Israelites must have left 
Egypt in a period of which monuments or other rec- 
ords are almost wholly wanting. Of the 18th and sub- 
sequent dynasties we have as yet no continuous his- 
tory, and rarely records of events which occurred in a 
succession of years. We know' much of many reigns, 
and of some w'e can be almost sure that they could not 
correspond to that of the Pharaoh of the Exode. We 
can in no case expect a distinct Egyptian monumental 
record of so great a calamity, for the monuments only 
record success ; but it might be related in a papyrus. 
There would doubtless have long remained a popular 
tradition of the Exode ; but if the king who perished 
w'as one of the shepherd strangers, this tradition would 
probably have been local, and perhaps indistinct. Jo- 
sephus, indeed, gives us some extracts from the last 
work of Manetho, who appears, if w'e may trust the 
criticisms of the Jewish historian (contra Apionem, § 
14, 26), to have greatly garbled the account in favor 
of the Egyptians. See IIyksos. 

Endeavors have been made to explain away the 
miraculous character of the passage of the Red Sea. 
It has been argued that Moses might have carried the 
Israelites over by a ford, and that an unusual tide 
might have overwhelmed the Egyptians. But no real 
diminution of the wonder is thus effected. IIow r was 
it that the sea admitted the passing of the Israelites, 
and drowned Pharaoh and his army? How was it 
that it was shallow at t lie right time, and deep at the 
right time? Some writers (Wolfenb. Fragm. p. 64 
sq.) have at once declared the whole fabulous, a course 
which appears to have been taken as early as the time 
of Josephus (.btf. ii, 16, 5). Others, who do not deny 
miracles as such, yet with no small inconsistency seek 
to reduce this particular miracle to the smallest di- 
mensions. Writers who see in the deliverance of the 
Hebrews the hand of God and the fulfilment of the di- 
vine purposes, follow the account in Scripture implicit- 
ly, placing the passage at Eas Attaka, at the termina- 
tion of the Valley of Wandering ; others, w ho go on 
rationalistic principles, find the sea here too wide and 
deep for their purpose, and endeavor to fix the passage 
a little to the south or the north of Suez. The most 
recent advocate of the passage at or near Suez is the 
learned Dr. Robinson (Biblical Researches in Palestine). 
The route taken by Moses was, according to Robinson, 
from Raineses to the head of the Arabian Gulf, through 
Succoth to Ethani. The last place he fixes on the edge 
of the desert, on the eastern side of the line of the gulf. 
Instead of passing down the eastern side, at the top of 
which the 3 r were, the Israelites thence marched down 
the western side of the arm of the gulf, stopping in the 
vicinity of Suez, where the passage was effected. This 
view' of the miracle, however, entirely fails to satisfy 
the Scripture account, and has been amply refuted by 
Dr. Olin (Travels in the East , N. Y. 1843) and others. 
(See the account of Mr. Blumhardt’s visit, Oct. 1836, in 
the Church Missionary Record , Jan. 1836 ; Kitto's Scrip- 
ture Lands, p. 58 ; Daily Bible Illusti'at. ii, 95.) Some 
have supposed the Red Sea anciently extended farther 
north, and have sought to identify the localities of the 
passage on that theory (see Sharpe in Bartlett’s Forty 
Days in the Desert, p. 23 sq.) ; but tills is quite im- 
probable and without evidence. Another explanation 
(Dr. Durbin, Observations in the East, i, 254) makes the 
Israelites to have turned from the vicinity of the bit- 
ter lakes to the western side of the head of Suez, and 


EXODE 


401 


EXODE 


go to have followed the shore to the plain of Baideah. | 
at the month of wady Tuwarik, and there crossed ; hut ■, 
if (as some travellers affirm) there is room for such a 
passage along the shore by lias Attaka, the Israelites 
might have escaped by the same route by simply re- 
treating, or, if that had been prevented by the Egyp- 
tians following along the same path behind them, they 
might still have fled up the wady Tih, and thence 
around Jebel Attaka and the head of the sea. A still 
later view (Captain Moresby, in Alton’s Lands of the 
Messiah, p. 107) places the scene of the passage still 
farther south, at the mouth of the next valley opening 
on the Red Sea near Ras Abu Deraj ; but it would be 
difficult to show how the Israelites could have reached 
this spot from their former position in the edge of the 
wilderness, and it would also bring them out too far 
south on the other side of the Red Sea. Indeed, the 
mountains approach so steeply the shore all along at 
these points, that they could only have arrived at the 
valley or plain of Baideah, where we have supposed 
the passage to have been made, by turning sharply 
at Etham around the western base of Mount Attaka, 
and so partly back into the wady et-Tih, through 
which they were immediately pursued by the Egyp- 
tians. The latter thus hemmed them in completely, 
and drove them forward to the extreme edge of the 
shore projecting in front of Mount Attaka, around 
which they were unable to escape. Here it was that 
Providence opened to them a miraculous path through 
the deep waters to the opposite point (at the mouth of 
wady Beyaneh), near which are situated the wells of 
Moses, which doubtless derived their name from the 
first encampment of the Hebrews after their rescue. 
See Red Sea. 

IV. The Route from the Red Sea to Sinai . — When 
safe on the eastern shore, the Israelites, had they 
taken the shortest route into Palestine, would have 
struck at once across the desert in a south-easterly di- 
rection to el-Arish or Gaza. But this route would 
have brought them into direct collision with the Phil- 
istines, with whom they -were as yet quite unable to 
cope. Or they might have traversed the desert of 
Paran, following the pilgrim road of the present day 
to Elath, and, turning to the north, have made for 
Palestine. In order to accomplish this, however, hos- 
tile hordes and nations would have to be encountered, 
whose superior skill and experience in war might have 
proved fatal to the newly-liberated tribes of Israel. 
Wisely, therefore, did their leader take a course which 
necessitated the lapse of time, and gave promise of af- 
fording intellectual and moral discipline of the highest 
value. He resolved to lead his flock to Sinai, in order 
that they might see the wonders there to be exhibited, 
and hear the lessons there to be given. At Sinai, and 
on the journey thither, might the great leader hope 
that the moral brand which slavery had imprinted on 
his people would be effaced, and that they would ac- 
quire that self-respect, that regard to God’s will, that 
capacity of self-guidance which alone could make lib- 
erty a blessing to the nation, and enable Moses to real- 
ize on their behalf the great and benign intentions 
which God had led him to form. There w r ere, howev- 
er, two ways by which he might reach Sinai. By fol- 
lowing a south-easterly direction, and proceeding across 
the desert et-Tih, he would have reached at once the 
heart of the Sinaitic region. This was the shorter and 
the more expeditious road. The other route lay along 
the shore of the Red Sea, which must he pursued till 
an opening gave the means of turning suddenly to the 
east, and ascending at once into the lofty district. The 
hitter was preferable for the reason before assigned, 
namely, the additional opportunities which it offered 
for the education of the undisciplined tribes of recent- 
ly emancipated slaves. 

Moses did not begin his arduous journey till, with a 
piety 1 ' and a warmth of gratitude which well befitted 
the signal deliverance that his people had just been 
III.— C c 


favored w r ith, he celebrated the power, majesty, and 
goodness of God in a triumphal ode, full of the most 
appropriate, striking, and splendid images; in which 
commemorative festivity he ivas assisted by “Miriam 
the prophetess, the sister of Aaron,” and her associated 
female band, with poetry, music, and dancing. The 
nature of these festivities gives us full reason to con- 
clude that, if the people at large were still slaves in in- 
tellect and morals, there were not wanting individuals 
in the camp who were eminently skilled in the best re- 
finements of the age. The spot where these rejoicings 
were held could not have been far from that which 
still bears the name of Ayun Musa , “the fountains of 
Moses,” the situation of which is even now marked hy 
a few palm-trees. This was a suitable place for the 
encampment, because well supplied with water. Here 
Robinson counted seven fountains, near which he saw 
a patch of barley and a few cabbage-plants. 

1. In tracing the track pursued hy the host, we 
should bear in mind the limitation that a variety of 
converging or parallel routes must often have been 
required to allow of the passage of so great a number 
(Robinson, Researches , i, 10G). Assuming the passage 
of the Red Sea to have been effected at the spot indi- 
cated above, they would inarch from their point of land- 
ing a little to the E. of S. Here they 'were in the wil- 
derness of Shur, and in it “they went three days and 
found no water.” The Israelites seem to have proceed- 
ed along the coast, probably following the route usually 
pursued b} r modern travellers, being at a short distance 
from the shore and parallel with it. The district is hilly 
and sandy, with a few water-courses running into the 
Red Sea, which, failing rain, are dry. “ These wadys,” 
says Robinson, “are mere depressions in the desert, 
with only a few scattered herbs and shrubs, now with- 
ered and parched with drought.” See Shur. 

At the end of three daj's the Israelites reached the 
fountain Marah, but the waters were bitter, and could 
not be drunk. The stock which they had brought 
with them being now exhausted, they began to utter 
murmurings on finding themselves disappointed at 
Marah. Moses appealed to God, who directed him to 
a tree, which, being thrown into the waters, sweeten- 
ed them. The people were satisfied and admonished. 
The present ’Ain el-IIawdra has been thought by most 
travellers since Burckbardt’s time to be Marah. The 
basin is six or eight feet in diameter, and the water 
Robinson found about two feet deep. Its taste is un- 
pleasant, saltish, and somewhat bitter. The Arabs 
pronounce it bitter, and consider it as the worst water 
in all these regions. Near the spring are numerous 
bushes of the shrub gliurlcud — a low, bushy, thorny 
shrub, producing a small fruit, which ripens in June, 
not unlike the blackberry, very juicy, and slightly 
acidulous. It delights in a saline soil, and is found 
growing near the brackish fountains in and around 
Palestine, affording a grateful refreshment to travel- 
lers. By means of the berries, or, if they ivere not 
ripe, the leaves of this plant, the bitterness may have 
been removed from the waters of Marah. Not im- 
probably the miracle in the case lay in this, that Je- 
hovah directed Moses to use the tree (bush) itself, in- 
stead of what w r as usual, the berries, as from the time 
of year, shortly after Easter, they could hardly have 
been ripe. Between Ain IIow r arah and Ayun Musa 
the plain is alternatel}'- gravelly, stony, and sandy, 
while under the range of Jebel Wardan (a branch of 
et-Tih) chalk and flints are found. There is no water 
on the direct line of route (Robinson, i, 127-114). 
Hawara stands in the lime and gypsum region which 
lines the eastern shore of the Gulf of Suez at its north- 
ern extremity. Sectzen ( Reisen , iii, 117) describes the 
water as salt, w ith purgative qualities ; but adds that 
his Bedouins and their camels drank of it. He argues, 
from its inconsiderable size, that it could not he the 
Marah of Moses. This, how'ever, seems an inconel u* 
sive reason. It would not be too near the point of 


EXODE 


402 


EXODE 


landing assumed, as above, as Dr. Stewart argues (p. 
55), when we consider the encumbrances which would 
delay the host, and, especially while they were new 
to the desert, prevent rapid marches. Hut the whole 
region appears to abound in brackish or bitter springs 
(Seetzcn, ib. iii, 117, etc.; Anmerk. p. 430). For in- 
stance, about If hours nearer Suez than the wady 
Ghurundel (which Lepsius took for Marah, but which 
Niebuhr and Robinson regard as more probably Elim), 
Seetzcn (ib. iii, 113, 114) found a wady Tal, with a salt 
spring and a salt crust on the surface of its hed, the 
same, he thinks, as the spot where Niebuhr speaks of 
finding rock-salt. This corresponds in general prox- 
imity with Marah. The neighboring region is de- 
scribed as a low plain girt with limestone hills, or 
more rarely chalk. On this first section of their desert 
march, Dr. Stanley (Sinai and Palest, p. 37) remarks, 
“There can be no dispute as to the general track of 
the Israelites after the passage (of the lied Sea). If 
they were to enter the mountains at all, they must 
continue in the route of all travellers, between the sea 
and the table-land of the Tih, till they entered the low 
hills of Ghurundel.” He adds in a note, “ Dr. Graul, 
however, was told ... of a spring near Tih el-Amara, 
right (i. e. south) of Hawara, so bitter that neither 
men nor camels could drink of it. From hence the 
road goes straight to wady Ghurundel.” Seetzen also 
inclines to view favorably the identification of el- 
Amara with Marah. He gives it the title of a “wady,” 
and precisely on this ground rejects the pretensions 
of el-IIawara as being no “wad}',” but only a brook ; 
whereas, from the statement “they encamped” at Ma- 
rah, Marah must, he argues, have been a wady. See 
Maraii. 

2. The next station mentioned in Scripture is Elim, 
where were twelve wells of water, and threescore and 
ten palm-trees. As is customary with travellers in 
these regions, “they encamped there by the waters” 
(Exod. xvi, 1). The indications given in the Bible 
are not numerous nor very distinct. Neither time 
nor distance is accurately laid down. Hence we can 
expect only general accuracy in our maps, and but 
partial success in fixing localities. Elim, however, is 
generally admitted to be wady Ghurundel , lying about 
half a day’s journey south-east from Marah. The way 
from Egypt to Sinai lies through this valley, and, on 
account of its water and verdure, it is a chief caravan 
station at the present day. It seems certain, at all 
events, that wady Ghurundel — whether it be Marah, 
as Lepsius and (although doubtfull}') Seetzen thought, 
or Elim, as Niebuhr, Robinson, and Kruse — must have 
been on the line of march, and almost equally certain 
that it furnished a camping station. In this wady 
Seetzen found more trees, shrubs, and bushes than he 
anywhere else saw in his journey from Sinai to Suez. 
He particularizes several date-palms and many tama- 
risks, and notes that the largest quantity of the vege- 
table manna, now to be found anywhere in the Penin- 
sula, is gathered here (iii, 11 G) from the leaves of the 
last-named tree, which here grows “with gnarled 
boughs and hoary head; the wild acacia, tangled by 
its desert growth into a thicket, also shoots out its 
gray foliage and white blossoms over the desert” 
(Stanley, Sinai and Palest . p. G8). The “ scenery” in 
this region becomes “a succession of water-courses” 
(ib.') ; and the wady Taivibeh, connected with Ghiirun- 
del by Useit, is so named from the goodly water and 
vegetation which it contains. These three wadvs en- 
compass on three sides the Jebel llummam; the sea, 
which it precipitously overhangs, being on the fourth. 
They are the principal ones of those which the Israel- 
ites, going from north-west to south-east along the 
coast, would come upon in the following order — wady 
Ghurundel, wady Useit, wady Thai, and wady Shubei- 
keh, the last being in its lower part called also wady 
Taivibeh, or having a junction with one of that name. 
Between Useit and Taiyibeh, the coast-range of these 


hills rises into the Jebel llummam, “lofty and precip- 
itous, extending in several peaks along the shore, ap- 
parently of chalky limestone, mostly covered with 
Hints ... its precipices . . . cut oft' all passage along- 
shore from the hot springs (lying a little west of south 
from the mouth of wadv Useit, along the coast) to the 
mouth of wady Taiyibeh” (Robinson, i, 150; compare 
Stanley, Sin. and Palest, p. 35). Hence, between the 
courses of these wad}'s the track of the Israelites must 
have been inland. Stanley says “Elim must be Ghh- 
rundel , Useit, or Taiyibeh (p. 37); elsewhere (p. G8) that 
“one of two valleys, or perhaps both, must be Elim 
these appear from the sequel to be Ghurundel and 
Useit, “fringed with trees and shrubs, the first vege- 
tation he had met with in the desert;” among these 
are “wild palms,” not stately trees, but dwarf or sav- 
age, “tamarisks,” and the “wild acacia.” To judge 
from the configuration as given in the maps, there 
seems to be no reason why all three should not have 
combined to form Elim, or, at any rate, as Stanley sug- 
gests, two of them. Only, from Num. xxxiii, 3, 10, as 
Elim appears not to have been on the sea, we must 
suppose that the encampment, if it extended into three 
wadvs, stopped short of their seaward extremities. 
The Israelitish host would scarcely find in all three 
more than adequate ground for their encampment. 
Beyond (i. e. to the south-east of Ghurundel), the 
ridges and spurs of limestone mountain push down to 
the sea, across the path along the plain (Robinson, i, 
101, and Map). This portion of the question may be 
summed up by presenting, in a tabular form, the views 
of some leading travellers or annotators on the site of 
Elim : 


Wady 

Ghurundel. 


Wady 

Useit. 

Niebuhr, 

One or 

Laborde 

Robinson, 

both. 

“ possibly. 

Kruse. 

[By Lepsius 
identified 
with Marah.] 

Stanley. 


Some warm springs 
north of Titr, which 
feed the rich date 
plantations of the 
convent there, 
Seetzen. 


Dr. Kruse (Anmerk. p. 418) singularl}' takes the 
words of Exod. xv, 27, “ they encamped there (in 
Elim) by the ivciters,” as meaning “b} r the sea ;” where- 
as, from Num. xxxiii, 9, 10, it appears they did not 
rcacli the sea till a stage farther, although their dis- 
tance from it previously had been but small. See 
Elim. 

3. From Elim the Israelites marched, encamping on 
the shore of the Red Sea, for which purpose they must 
have kept the high ground for some time, since the 
precipices of Jebel Hummam — a lofty and precipitous 
mountain of chalky limestone — run down to the brink 
of the sea. They therefore went on the land side of 
this mountain to the head of wady Taiyibeh, which 
passes down south-west through the mountains to the 
shore. On the plain of Pas Zetima , at the mouth of 
this valley, was probably (Stanley, p. 37) the encamp- 
ment “ by the Red Sea” (Num. xxxiii, 10). 

4. According to Num. xxxii, 11, the Israelites re- 
moved from the Red Sea, and encamped next in the 
wilderness of Sin ; an appellation no doubt represent- 
ing some natural feature, and none more probably 
than the alluvial plain, which, lying at the edge of the 
sea, about the spot we now regard them as having 
reached, begins to assume a significant appearance. 
The modern name for this is cl-Kda , identified by 
Seetzen with this wilderness (iii, pt. iii, 412). Stanley 
calls el-Kaa, at its initial point, “ the plain of 
Aa/i,” and thinks it is probably this wilderness (p. 37). 
Robinson likewise identifies it with “the great plain, 
which, beginning near el-Murkhkh, extends with 
greater or less breadth almost to the extremity of the 
peninsula. In its broadest part it is called el-Ka-a” (i, 
100). Thus they kept along the shore, and did not yet 
ascend any of the fruitful valleys which run up to- 
wards the centre of the district. The account in Exod. 


EXODE 


403 


EXODE 


xvi knows nothing of the foregoing encampment by 
the sea, but brings the host at once into “ the wilder- 
ness of Sin;” but we must bear in mind the general 
purpose there of recording not the people’s history so 
much as God’s dealings with them, and the former 
rather as illustrative of the latter, and subordinate to 
it. The evident design, however, in Num. xxxiii be- 
ing to place on record their itinerary, this latter is to 
be esteemed as the locus classicus on any topographical 
questions as compared with others having a less spe- j 
cial relation to the track. Indeed, we may regard the 
encampment by the Red Sea as being essentially in the 
wilderness of Shur itself. See Sin (Desert of). 

The Israelites arrived in the wilderness of Sin on 
the fifteenth day of the second month after their de- 
parture out of the land of Egypt (Exod. xxi, 1), and 
being now wearied of their journey and tired of their 
scanty fare, they began again to murmur. Indeed, it 
is not easy to see how the most ordinary and niggard- 
ly food could have been supplied to them, constituting 
as they did nearly two millions of persons, in such a 
country as that into which they had come. It is true 
that some provision might have been made by indi- 
viduals ere the march from Suez began. It is also 
probable that the accounts of encampments which we 
have are to be regarded as chiefly those of Moses and 
his principal men, with a chosen body of troops, while 
the multitude were allowed to traverse the open coun- 
try and forage in the valleys. Still the region was 
unfavorable for the purpose, and some have hence con- 
cluded that here we have one of those numerical diffi- 
culties which are not uncommon in the Old-Testament 
Scripture, and which make many suspect some radi- 
cal error in our conceptions of the Hebrew system of 
numbers. The contrast between the scanty supply of 
the desert and the abundance of Egypt furnished the 
immediate occasion of the outbreak of dissatisfaction. 
Bread and flesh were the chief demand ; bread and 
flesh were miraculously supplied ; the former by man- 
na, the latter by quails (Exod. xvi, 13). Manna grows 
in some of the neighboring valleys ; bnt the Israelites 
were in the wilderness, so that the supply could not 
have proceeded from natural resources, even had such 
existed to a sufficient extent for the purpose. The 
modern confection sold under that name is the exuda- 
tion collected from the leaves of the tamarisk-tree ( ta - 
marix Orientcilis , Linn.; Arab, tarfa , Ileb. S'^X) only 
in the Sinaitic valleys, and in no great abundance. If 
it results from the punctures made in the leaf by an in- 
sect (the coccus manmparus, Ehrenberg) in the course 
of June, July, and August, this will not precisely suit 
the time of the people’s entering the region, which was 
about May. It is said to keep as a hardened sirup 
for years (Laborde, Comment . Georjr. on Exod. xvi, 13, 
11), and thus does not answer to the more striking 
characteristics described in Exod. xvi, 14-2G. Seetzen 
thought that the gum Arabic, an exudation of the 
acacia, was the real manna of the Israelites ; i. e. he 
regards the statement of “ bread from heaven” as a fic- 
tion ( Reisen , iii, 75-79). A caravan of a thousand per- 
sons is said by Hasselquist ( Voyages , etc., Materia 
Medico, , p. 298, transl. ed. 1766) to have subsisted sole- 
ly on this substance for two months. See Manna. 

5. The next station mentioned in Exodus is Rephi- 
dim; but in Numbers Dophkah and Alush are added. 
The two latter were reached after the people had taken 
“ their journey out of the wilderness of Sin.” Exact 
precision and minute agreement are not to be expect- 
ed. The circumstances of the case forbid us to look 
for them. In a desert, mountainous, and rarely fre- 
quented country, the names of places are not lasting. 
There was the less reason for permanence in the case 
before us, because the Israelites had not taken the 
shorter and more frequented road over the mountains 
to Sinai, but kept along the shore of the Red Sea. It 
still deserves notice, that in Exodus (xvii, 1) there is 


something like an intimation given of other stations 
besides Eephidim in the words “after their journeys.” 
Dophkah is probably to be found near the spot where 
wady Feiriin runs into the Gulf of Suez. See Doph- 
kah. Alush may have lain on the shore near Ras 
Jehan. See Alush. From this point a range of cal- 
careous rocks, termed Jebal Hemam, stretches along 
the shore, near the southern end of which the Hebrews 
took a sudden turn to the north-east, and, going up 
wady Hibran, reached the central Sinaitic district. 
On the opposite side, the eastern, the Sinaitic moun- 
tains come to a sudden stop, breaking off, and present- 
ing like a wall nearly perpendicular granite cliffs. 
These cliffs are cut by wady Hibran, and at the point 
of intersection with the plain which runs between the 
two ranges probably lay Eephidim. The tabernacle 
was not yet set up, nor the order of march organized, 
as subsequently (Numb, x, 13, etc.); hence the words 
“track” or “route,” as indicating a line, can only be 
taken in the most wide and general sense. See Re- 
phideu. 

This was the last station before Sinai itself was 
reached. Naturally enough is it recorded that “ there 
was no water for the people to drink.” The road was 
an arid gravelly plain ; oil either side were barren 
rocks. A natural supply was impossible. A miracle 
was wrought, and water was given. The Scripture 
makes it clear that it was from the Sinaitic group that 
the water was produced (Exod. xvii, 6). The plain 
received two descriptive names: Massah, “Tempta- 
tion,” and Meribah, “Strife.” It appears that the 
congregation was not allowed to pursue their way to 
Sinai unmolested. The Arabs thought the Israelites 
suitable for plunder, and fell upon them. These hordes 
are termed Amalek. The Amalekites may have been 
out on a predatory expedition, or they may have fol- 
lowed the Israelites from the north, and only over- 
taken them at Eephidim ; any way, no conclusion can 
be gathered from this fact as to the ordinary abode of 
these nomades. It appears, however, that the conflict 
was a severe and doubtful one, which by some extraor- 
dinary aid ended in favor of the children of Israel. 
This aggression on the part of Amalek gave occasion 
to a permanent national hatred, which ended only in 
the extermination of the tribe (Numb.xxiv,20 ; Exod. 
j xvii, 74-16). In commemoration of this victory, Mo- 
1 ses was commanded to write an account of it in a book : 
he also erected there an altar to Jehovah, and called 
the name of it “Jehovah, my banner.” There is no 
occasion to inquire whether or not there was space for a 
battle in the spot where Moses was. It was a noinade 
horde that made the attack, and not a modern army. 
The fight was not a pitched battle. See Asialek. 

The word Horeb, applied by Moses to the place 
whence the water was gained, suggests the idea that 
Horeb was the general, and Sinai the specific name ; 
Horeb standing for the entire district, and Sinai for 
one particular mountain. Many passages sanction 
this distinction ; but in the New Testament Sinai only 
is read, having then apparently become a general name, 
as it is at the present day (Acts vii, 30-38 ; Gal. iv, 24). 
It is a monkish usage which gives the name Sinai to 
Jebel Musa, and Horeb to the northern part of the 
same ridge. See Horeb. 

6. The route from Eephidim to Horeb is usually sup- 
posed to have been by way of wady Feiriin, but we can 
see no good reason for so circuitous a course, supposing 
that we have correctly located Eephidim. The Israel- 
ites may more probably have ascended wady Hibran 
as far as its junction with wady Bughabigh, and 
through this first, south-easterly, and then north-east- 
erly between Jebel Madsus and Jebel es-Sik ; thence, 
in a northerly direction, along the western base of Je- 
bel Katherin, through wady Um-Kuraf, across wady 
Tulah. Here they may have followed the path be- 
■ tween Jebel Humr and Jebel el-Ghubsheh, which 
1 comes out at the modern gardens in the recess of the 


EXODE 


404 


EXODE 


hills. AA'e thus place them before Mount Iloreb, in 
the capacious plain Rahah, which, having its widest 
part in the immediate front of that immense mass of 
rock, extends as if with two arms, one towards the 
north-west, the other towards the north-east. The re- 
view of the plain by so competent a person as Kobin- 
son is of great consequence for the interests of scien- 
tific geography, and the yet more important interests 
of religious truth ; the rather because a belief prevail- 
ed, even among the best informed, that there was no 
spot in the Sinaitic district which answered to the de- 
mands of the scriptural narrative. Even the accurate 
Winer (Real-Wort, in art. “Sinai,” not u Horeb,” as 
referred to by Robinson, i, 17 ; ii, 550) says, “Which- 
ever mountain may be considered as the place for the 
promulgation of the law, the common representation 
still remains false — that at the foot of the hill there 
spreads out a great plain, on which the people of Israel 
might assemble” (comp. Uosenmuller, Alter th. iii,129). 
We shall therefore transcribe Robinson's words in ex- 
tenso: “We came to Sinai with some incredulity, 
wishing to investigate the point whether there was 
any probable ground, beyond monkish tradition, for 
fixing upon the present supposed site. Wc were led 
to the conviction that the plain er-liahah is the proba- 
ble spot where the congregation of Israel were assem- 
bled; and that the mountain impending over it, the 
present Horeb, was the scene of the awful phenomena 
in which the law w r as given. We were surprised as 
well as gratified to find here, in the inmost recesses 
of these dark granite cliffs, this fine plain spread out 
before the mountain, and 1 know not where I have felt 
a thrill of stronger emotion than when, in first crossing 
the plain, the dark precipices of Iloreb rising in sol- 
emn grandeur before us, we became aware of the en- 
tire adaptedness of the scene to the purposes for which 
it was chosen by the great Hebrew legislator. Moses 
doubtless, during the forty years in which he kept the 
flocks of Jethro, had often wandered over these moun- 
tains, and was well acquainted with their valleys and 
deep recesses, like the Arabs of the present day. At 
any rate, he knew and had visited the spot to which 
he was to conduct his people — this adytum in the midst 
of the great circular granite region ; a secret hoi} 7 
place, shut out from the world amid lone and desolate 
mountains” (i, 175 sq.). AVe subjoin what Robinson 
reports of the clinmte : “The weather, during our resi- 
dence at the convent (of Sinai), as, indeed, during all 
our journey through the peninsula (March and April), 
was very fine. At the convent the thermometer ranged 
only between 47° and 07° F. But the winter nights 
are said here to be cold ; water freezes as late as Feb- 
ruary, and snow often falls upon the mountains. But 
the air is exceedingly pure, and the climate healthy, 
as is testified by the great age and vigor of many of 
the monks; and if in general few of the Arabs attain 
to so great an age, the cause is doubtless to be sought 
in the scantiness of their fare, and their exposure to 
privations, and not to any injurious influence of the 
climate” (p. 175). Other travellers, however, have 
since contended for the plain of wady es-Sebaiyeh, at 
the south-eastern base of Sinai, as the scene of the giv- 
ing of the law (Ivitto’s Daily Bible Illusi. ii, 123). This 
appears a less favorable position for that purpose, hut 
it might easily have been reached by the Israelites by 
keeping along the shore of the Red Sea, and ascending 
by the next valley opposite Jebel Um-Shanmer. See 
Sinai. 

A". From Sinai to Kadesh. — The sojourn of a year in 
the neighborhood of Mount Sinai was an eventful one. 
The statements of the scriptural narrative which re- 
late to the receiving of the two tables, the golden calf, 
Moses's vision of God, and the visit of Jethro, are too 
well known to need special mention here ; but, besides 
these, it is certain, from Numb. iii, 4, that before they 
quitted the wilderness of Sinai the Israelites were 
thrown into mourning by the untimely death of Aaron's 


two sons, Nadab and Abihu. This event is probably 
connected with the setting up of the tabernacle and 
the enkindling of that holy fire, the sanctity of which 
their death avenged. That it has a determinate chro- 
nological relation with the promulgations which from 
time to time were made in that wilderness, is proved 
by an edict in Lev. xvi, being fixed as subsequent to 
it (Lev, x ; comp. xvi. 1). The only other fact of his- 
tory contained in Leviticus is the punishment of the 
son of mixed parentage for blasphemy (xxiv, 10-14). 
Of course the consecration of Aaron and his sons is 
mentioned early in the book in connection with the 
laws relating to their office (viii, ix). In the same 
wilderness region the people were numbered, and the 
exchange of the Levites against the first-born was ef- 
fected ; these last, since their delivery when God smote 
those of Egypt, having incurred the obligation of sanc- 
tity to him. The offerings of the princes of Israel 
were here also received. The last incident mentioned 
before the wilderness of Sinai was quitted for that of 
Paran is the intended departure of ITobab the Kenite, 
which it seems he abandoned at Moses's urgency. See 
Hobab. 

1. After having been thus about a year in the midst 
of this mountainous region, the Israelites broke up 
their encampment and began their journey in the or- 
der of their tribes, Judah leading the way with the 
ark of the covenant, under the guidance of the direct- 
ing cloud (Numb, ix, 15 sq. ; x, 11 sq.). They doubt- 
less proceeded down wady Sheik, having the wilder- 
ness of Paran (Debbet er-Ramleh) before them, in a 
northerly direction ; but having come to a gorge in 
the mountains not far from Sinai, they appear to have 
struck in a north-easterly direction across some low 
swells into toady Sal , where the subsequent route 
obliges us to place the station Taberah. It took the 
army three days to reach this station. AVhatever 
name the place bore before, it now received that of 
Taberah (fire), from a supernatural fire with which 
murmurers, in the extreme parts of the camp, were de- 
stroyed as a punishment for their guilt. Here, too, 
the mixed multitude that was among the Israelites not 
only fell a-lusting themselves, hut also excited the He- 
brews to remember Egyptian fish and vegetables with 
strong desire, and to complain of the divinely supplied 
manna. The discontent was intense and widely spread. 
Moses became aware of it, and forthwith felt his spirit 
misgive him. He brings the matter before Jehovah, 
and receives divine aid by the appointment of seventy 
elders to assist him in the important and perilous office 
of governing the gross, sensuous, and self-willed myr- 
iads whom lie had to lead to Canaan. Moreover, an 
abundance of flesh-meat was given iu a most profuse 
supply of quails. It appears that there were now 
000,000 footmen in the congregation. See Taberah. 

2. The next station was Kibroth-hattaavah (proba- 
bly at the intersection of their north-easterly course 
with wady Murrah ), near which there are fine springs 
and excellent pasturage. This spot, the name of 
which signifies “graves of lust,” was so denominated 
from a plague inflicted on the people in punishment 
of their rebellious disposition (Numb, xi, 33 ; 1 Cor. x, 
0). Raumer (Beit rage z. bib . Geog. p. 6 , also Paldst . 
Is50, p. 442) infers from Dent, i, 3, that Uizahab (now 
Dahab) lav on the route of the Israelites, and there- 
fore identifies it with Kibroth-hattavah ; but this is 
improbable, and requires a large detour. See Ki- 
B ROT] I -11 ATT AAV A 1 1 . 

3. Thence they journeyed to Hazeroth, which Rob- 
inson, after Burckhardt, finds in el-TIudherah , where 
is a fountain, together with palm-trees. “The deter- 
mination of this point,” says Robinson, “is perhaps 
of more importance in Biblical history than would 
at first appear; for, if this position be adopted for Ha- 
zerotli, it settles at once the question as to the whole 
route of the Israelites between Sinai and Kadesh. It 
shows that they must have followed the route upon 


EXODE 


405 


EXODE 


which we now were to the sea, and so along the coast 
to Akabah (at the head of the eastern arm of the Red 
Sea), and thence, probably, through the great wady 
el-’Arabah to Kadesh. Indeed, such is the nature of 
the country, that, having once arrived at this fountain, 
they could not well have varied their course so as to 
keep aloof from the sea, and continue along the high 
plateau of the western desert” (i, 223). A glance at 
Kiepert’s, or any map showing the region in detail, 
will show that a choice of two main routes exists, in 
order to cross the intervening space between Sinai and 
Canaan, which they certainly approached in the first 
instance on the southern, and not on the eastern side. 
Here the higher plateau surmounting the Tih region 
would almost certainly, assuming the main features 
of the wilderness to have been then as they are now, 
have compelled them to turn its western side nearly 
by the route by which Seetzen came in the opposite 
direction from Hebron to Sinai, or to turn it on the 
east by going up the ’Arabah, or between the ’Arabah 
and the higher plateau. Over its southern face there 
is no pass, and hence the roads from Sinai, and those 
from Petra towards Gaza and Hebron, all converge 
into one of two trunk-lines of route (Robinson, i, 147, 
151, 2 ; ii, 180). One reason for thinking that they 
did not strike northwards across the Tih range from 
Sinai is Moses’s question when they murmur, “Shall 
all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to 
suffice them?” which is natural enough if they were 
rapidly nearing the Gulf of ’Akabah, but strange if 
they were posting towards the inland heart of the des- 
ert. Again, the quails are brought by “a wind from 
the sea” (Numb, xi, 22,31); and various travellers 
(Burckhardt, Schubert, Stanley) testify to the occur- 
rence of vast flights of birds in this precise region be- 
tween Sinai and ’Akahali. Again, Hazeroth, the next 
station after these, is coupled with Dizahab, which last 
seems undoubtedly the Dahab on the shore of that 
gulf (Deut. i, 1, and Robinson, ii, 600, note). This 
makes a seaward position likely for Hazeroth. Now 
as Taberah, previously reached, was three days’ jour- 
ney or more from the wilderness of Sinai, they had 
probably advanced that distance towards the north- 
east and ’Akabah ; and the distance required for this 
will bring us so near el-Iludherah (the spot which 
Robinson thought represented Hazeroth in fact, as it 
seems to do in name), that it may be accepted as a 
highly probable site. Thus they were now not far 
from the coast of the Gulf of ’Akabah. A spot which 
seems almost certain to attract their course was the 
wady el-’Ain, being the water, the spring of that region 
of the desert, which, -would have drawn around it such 
“nomadic settlements as are implied in the name of 
Hazeroth, and such as that of Israel must have heen” 
(Stanley, p. 82). Stanley nevertheless thinks this 
identification of Hazeroth a “faint probability,” and 
the more uncertain as regards identity, “as the name 
Hazeroth is one of the least likely to be attached to 
any permanent or natural feature of the desert,” 
meaning “simply the inclosures, such as may still be 
seen in the Bedouin villages, hardly less transitory 
than tents” (Sinai and Palestine , p. 81, 82). We rely, 
however, as much on the combination of the various 
circumstances mentioned above as on the name. The 
wady Huderah and wady el-’Ain appear to run nearly 
parallel with each other, from south-west to north-east, 
nearly from the eastern extremity of the wady es- 
Sheikh, and their north-east extremity comes nearly 
to the coast, marking about a midway distance be- 
tween the Jebel Musa and ’Akabah. After reaching 
the sea, however, at Ain el-Waseit, the Israelites may 
have made a detour by -way of wady Wetir nearly to 
its head, and thence passed through the water-course 
running directly northward into the Herb es-Sanna, 
thence around the northern face of Jebel Herte, down 
wady Hessi and wady Knreiyeh to the sea again ; thus 
avoiding the narrow shore and the difficult pass across 


the hill between wady el-Huweimiraty and wady el- 
Hmveimirat. (See Stanley’s Sinai and Palestine , p. 
84). See llAZEiioTir. 

At Hazeroth, where the people seem to have re- 
mained a short time, there arose a family dissension 
to increase the difficulties of Moses. Aaron, appar- 
ently led on by his sister Miriam, who may have been 
actuated by some feminine pique or jealousy, com- 
plained of Moses on the ground that he had married a 
Cushite, that is, an Arab wife, and the malcontents 
went so far as to set up their own claims to authority 
as not less valid than those of Moses. An appeal is 
made to Jehovah, who vindicates Moses, rebukes 
Aaron, and punishes Miriam (Numb. xii). See Mir- 
iam. 

The two preceding stations seem from Numb, x, 11- 
13, 33-3G, to have lain in the wilderness of Paran ; but 
possibly the passage in x, 11-13 should come after that 
of 33-36, and the “three days’ journey” of ver. 33 lie 
still in the wilderness of Sinai ; and even Taberah and 
Hazeroth, reached in xi, xii, also there. Thus the Is- 
raelites would reach Paran only in xii, 16 ; and x, 12 
would be either misplaced, or mentioned by anticipa- 
tion onl}\ See Paran (Wilderness of). 

4. The next permanent encampment brought them 
into the wilderness of Paran, and here the local com- 
mentator’s greatest difficulty begins. “And after- 
wards the people removed from Hazeroth, and pitched 
in the wilderness of Paran,” at Kadesli (Numb, xii, 16 ; 
xiii, 26). In Dent, i, 19-21, we read, “ And when we 
departed from Iloreb we went through *all that great 
and terrible wilderness which ye saw by the way of 
the mountain of the Amorites, as the Lord our God 
commanded us ; and we came to Kadesh-barnea. And 
I said unto you, Ye are come unto the mountain of the 
Amorites, which the Lord our God doth give unto us. 
Behold, the Lord thy God hath set the land before 
thee: go up and possess it; fear not, neither be dis- 
couraged.” Accordingly, here it was that twelve 
men (spies) were sent into Canaan to survey the coun- 
try, who went up from the wilderness of Zin (Numb, 
xiii, 21) to Hebron, and returning after forty days, 
brought back a very alarming account of what they 
bad seen. Let it, however, be remarked that the 
Scriptures here supply several local data to this ef- 
fect: Kadesl>barnea lay not far from Canaan, near 
the mountain of the Amorites, in the wilderness of 
Zin, in the wilderness of Paran. It is evident that 
there is here a great lacuna, which some have attempt- 
ed to fill up by turning the route a little to the west to 
Rithmah (q. v.), on the borders of ldunnea, and then 
conducting it with a sudden bend to the west and the 
south, into what is considered the wilderness of Paran 
(Relievo Map of Arabia Petra’a , published by Dobbs, 
London). In this view, however, we cannot concur. 
Both Robinson and Raumer are of a different opinion. 
At the same time it must be admitted that so great a 
gap in the itinerary is extraordinary. If, however, we 
find ourselves in regard to the journey from Horeb to 
Kadesh possessed of fewer and less definite materials 
of information, we have also the satisfaction of feeling 
that no great scriptural fact or doctrine is concerned. 
It is certain that the narrative in the early part of 
Numbers goes at once from Hazeroth to Kadesh ; and 
although the second account (in Numb, xxxiii) supplies 
other places, these seem to belong properly to a second 
route and a second visit to Kadesh. The history in 
the book of Numbers is not, indeed, a consecutive nar- 
rative ; for after the defeat of the Israelites in their 
foolish attempt to force an entrance into Canaan con- 
trary to the will of God (Numb, xiv, 45), it breaks sud- 
denly off, and, leaving the journeyings and the doings 
of the camp, proceeds to recite certain laws. Yet it 
offers, as we think, a clear intimation of a second visit 
to the wilderness of Zin and to Kadesh. Without 
having said a word as to the removal of the Israelites 
southward, and therefore leaving them in the wilder- 


EXODE 


400 


EXODE 


nes-s of Zin, at Kadesh, it records in the twentieth chap, 
(yer. 1), “ Then came the children of Israel, the whole 
congregation, into the desert of Zin, in the first month, 
and the people abode in Kadesh.” And this view ap- 
pears confirmed by the fact that the writer immediate- 
ly proceeds to narrate the passage of the Israelites 
hence on by Mount I lor southwards to Gilgal and 
Canaan. Robinson’s remarks (ii, 611) on this point 
have much force: U I have thus far assumed that the 
Israelites were twice at Kadesh, and this appears from 
a comparison of the various accounts. They broke 
up from Sinai on the the twentieth day of the second 
month in the second year of their departure out of 
Egypt, corresponding to the early part of May ; they 
came into the desert of Paran, whence spies were sent 
up the mountain into Palestine, ‘in the time of the 
first ripe grapes ;’ and these returned after forty days 
to the camp at Kadesh. As grapes begin to ripen on 
the mountains of Judah in July, the return of the 
spies is to be placed in August or September. The 
people now murmured at the report of the spies, and 
received the sentence from Jehovah that their car- 
casses should fall in the wilderness, and their children 
wander in the desert forty years. They were ordered 
to turn back into the desert ‘ by the way of the Red 
Sea,’ although it appears that they abode ‘ many’ days 
in Kadesh. The next notice of the Israelites is, that 
in the first month they came into the desert of Zin and 
abode again at Kadesh ; here Miriam dies ; Moses and 
Aaron bring water from the rock ; a passage is de- 
manded through the land of Edom, and refused ; and 
they then journeyed from Kadesh to Mount Hor, 
w here Aaron -dies in the fortieth year of the departure 
from Egypt, in the first day of the fifth month, cor- 
responding to a part of August and September. Here, 
then, between August of the second year and August 
of the fortieth year, we have an interval of thirty-eight 
years of wandering in the desert. With this coincides 
another account. From Mount Hor they proceeded to 
Elath on the Red Sea, and so around the land of Edom I 
to the brook Zered, on the border of Moab ; and from 
the time of their departure from Kadesh. (meaning, of 
course, their first departure) until they thus came to ( 
the brook Zered, there is said to have been an interval 
of thirty-eight years.” I 

In this way the scriptural account of the jonrney- 
ings of the Israelites become perfectly harmonious ami 
intelligible. The eighteen stations mentioned only in 
the general list in the book of Numbers as preceding 
tlie arrival at Kadesh are then apparently to be re- 
ferred to this eight-a ml-thirtv years of wandering, 
during which the people at last approached Ezion- 
geber, and afterwards returned northwards a second 
time to Kadesh, in the hope of passing directly through 
the laud of Edom. Their wanderings extended, doubt- 
less, over the western desert, although the stations 1 
named are probably only those head-quarters where 
the tabernacle w'as pitched, and where Moses, and the 
elders, and priests encamped, while the main body of 
the people was scattered in various directions. 

Where, then, was Kadesh ? Clearly on the bor- 
ders of Palestine. We agree "with Robinson and Rau- 
mer in placing it nearly at the top of the wady ’Ara- 
bah, where, indeed, it is fixed by Script lire, for in Numb, 
xii, 16 we read, “ Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of thy 
(Edom’s) border.’’ The precise spot it may he difficult 
to ascertain ; hut here, in the wilderness of Zin, which 1 
lay in the more comprehensive district of Paran, is 
Kadesh to be placed. Pannier, however, lias attempt- 
ed to fix the locality, and in his views Robinson and 
Schubert generally concur. Raunier places it south 
from the Dead Sea, in the loiv lands between the moun- ’ 
tain of the Edomites and that of the Aniorites. The 
country gradually descends from the mountains of 
Judah southward, and where the descent terminates 
Raunier sets Kadesh. With this view' the words of 
Moses entirely correspond, w hen, at Kadesh, he said 


to the spies, “ Get you up southward (rather on the 
south, -M2), and^o vp into the mountain” (Numb, xiii, 
17). The ascent may have been made up the pass 
es-Sufah ; up this the self-willed Hebrews went, and 
were driven back by the Canaanites as far as to Ilor- 
mah, then called Zephath (Numb, xii, 17 ; xiv, 40—15; 
Judg. i, 17). The spot where Kadesh lay Robinson 
finds in the present Ain el-Weibeli. But Raunier pre- 
fers a spot to the north of this place — that where the 
road mounts by wady el-Khurar to the pass Sufah. It 
ought, he thinks, to be fixed on a spot where the Is- 
raelites would be near the pass, and where the pass 
would lie before their eves. This is not the case, 
according to Schubert, at Ain el-Weibeli. Raunier, 
therefore, inclines to fix on Ain Hash, which lies near 
Ain el-Khurar. This is probably Kadesh. The dis- 
tance from the pass Sufah to Ain Hash is little more 
than half the length of that from the same pass to Ain 
el-Weibeh. According to the Arabs, there is at Ain 
Hash a copious fountain of sw'eet water, surrounded by 
verdure and traces of ruins, which must be of consid- 
erable magnitude, as they were seen by Robinson at a 
distance of some miles. These may he the ruins of 
Kadesh; but at Ain el-Weibeh there are no ruins (see 
Kaumer, Paliist. 1850, p. 445). See Kadesii. 

By what route, then, did the Israelites come from 
Ilazeroth to Kadesh ? We are here supplied with 
scarcely any information. The entire distance, which 
is considerable, is passed by the historian in silence. 
Nothing more remains than the direction of the two 
places, the general features of the country, and one or 
two allusions. The option seems to lie between two 
routes. From Ilazeroth, pursuing a direction to the 
north-east, they would come upon the sea-coast, along 
w hich they might go till they came to the top of the 
Balir Akabah, and thence up wady Arabali to Kadesh, 
nearly at its extremity. Or they might have taken a 
north-w r estern course and crossed the mountain Jebel 
et-Tih. If so, they must still have avoided the west- 
ern side of Mount Araif, otherwise they would have 
been carried to Beer-sheba, which lay far to the west 
of Kadesh. Robinson prefers the first route, Raumer 
the second. “I,” says the latter, “ am of opinion that 
Israel went through the desert et-Tih, then down Je- 
bel Araif, but not along wady ’Arabah.” This view' is 
thought to be supported by the words found in Dent, i, 
10, “When w T e departed from Horeb we went through 
all that great and terrible uilderness which ye saw by 
the way of the mountain of the Aniorites [as if Jebel 
Araif], and we came to Kadesh-barnea.” This jour- 
ney from Ilorob to Kadesh-barnea took the Hebrew's 
eleven days (Dent, i, 2). But in this last passage the 
route is expressly said to be “by the way of 3 fount 
Sdr ” (which must therefore be the “mount of the 
Aniorites” above referred to), and in ver. 1 the “wil- 
derness is said to be in the ’Arabah (“ plain”), with 
several places designated as extreme boundary points. 
See Akabah. 

VI. The Wanderings in the Desert. — At the direct 
command of Jehovah the Hebrews left Kadesh, came 
down to the wady ’Arabah, and entered the wilderness 
by the way of the Red Sea (Numb, xiv, 25). In this 
wilderness they ivandered eight-a nd-thirty years, hut 
little can be set forth respecting the course of their 
march, ft may in general be observed that their 
route would not resemble that of a regular modern 
army. They were a disciplined horde of nomades, 
and would follow nomadic customs. It is also clear 
that their stations, as w'ell as their course, w'ould neces- 
sarily be determined by the nature of the country, and 
its natural supplies of the necessaries of life. Hence 
regularity of movement is not to be expected. A com- 
mon error is that of supposing that from station to 
station (in Numb, xxxiii) always represents a day’s 
march mere!}’, whereas it is plain, from a comparison 
of tw’O passages in Exod. (xv, 22) aud Numb (x, 23), 


EXODE 


407 EXODE 


that on two occasions three days formed the period of 
transition between station and station, and therefore 
that not day’s marches, but intervals of an indefinite 
number of days between permanent encampments are 
intended by that itinerary ; and as it is equally clear 
from Numb, ix, 22 that the ground may have been oc- 
cupied for “ two days, or a month, or a year,” we may 
suppose that the occupations of a longer period only 
may be marked in the itinerary; and thus the diffi- 
culty of apparent chasms in its enumeration, for in- 
stance the greatest, between Ezion-Geber and Kadesh 
(xxxiii, 35-37), altogether vanishes. How, except by 
a constant miracle, two millions of people were sup- 
ported for forty years in the peninsula of Sinai, has 
been thought, under the actual circumstances of the 
case, to be inexplicable ; nor will such scanty supplies 
as an occasional well or a chance oasis do much to re- 
lieve the subject. Much of the difficulty experienced 
by commentators on this head, however, arises from a 
misconception of the nature of the so-ealled “desert” 
(*27 r)i which is rather an open uninhabited country 
than a desolate wilderness in the strict sense. Indeed, 
JotbalU (q. v.), one of the stations named in this part 
of the route, is explicitly called “a land of rivers of 
waters” (Dent, x, 8). Modern travellers through the 
region in question speak of many parts of it as well 
watered, and actually sustaining a numerous nomadic 
population (comp. Meth. Quart. Rev . April, 1863, p. 301 
sq.). See Wilderness. 

1. In the absence of detailed information, any at- 
tempt to lay down the path pursued by the Israelites 
after their emerging from the ’Arabali can be little bet- 
ter than conjectural. Some authorities carry them quite 
over to the eastern bank of the Red Sea ; but the ex- 
pression “ by the way of the Red Sea” denotes nothing 
more than the western wilderness, or the wilderness in 
the direction of the Red Sea. The stations over which 
the Israelites passed are set down in Numb, xxxiii, 18 
sq. (comp. Deut. x, 6, 7), and little beyond the bare 
record can be given. Only it seems extraordinary, 
and is much to be regretted, that for so long a period 
as eight-and-thirtv years our information should be so 
exceedingly small. Raumer, indeed, makes a feeble 
effort (Beit rage zur biblische Geographic , Leips. 1843) 
to fix the direction in which some of the stations lay 
to each other, but lie locates them all in the valley of 
the ’Arabali, without being able to identify one of the 
names with a modern locality (see his PaUistinn , 1850, 
p. 446 ; also map). Were the interior of the peninsula 
thoroughly explored, we doubt not many of the an- 
cient names might be found still subsisting, which 
would serve as landmarks to determine the route. 
As it is, we do not altogether despair of finding some 
clew to the subject. [See below.] It may be of ser- 
vice to subjoin the following table of the places through 
which the Israelites passed (not all of them exactly 
stations) from the time of their leaving Egypt to their 
arrival in Canaan, which we take (with some altera- 
tions) from Dr. Robinson’s paper in the Biblical Repos. 
for 1832, p. 794-797. 


(1.) From Egypt to Sinai. 


(Exodus xii-xix.) 

[1.] From It a lueses (xii, 37). 
[2.] Succoth (xii, 37). 

[3.] Etliam (xiii,20). 

[4.] IM-hali iroth (xiv, 2). 

[5.J Passage through the 
Red 8ea (xiv, 22). 

TS.] Three days’ march into 
the desert of Shur 
(xv, 22). 

[7.] Marah (xv, 23). 

[S.3 Elim (xv, 27). 

[ 9 .] 

[10.] Desert of Sin (xvi, 1). 


[13 ] Rephidim (xvii, 1). 

\14.] Desert of Sinai (xix, 1). 


(Numbers xxxiii.) 

From Raineses (ver. 3), 

Succoth (ver. 5). 

Etliam (ver. 0). 

Pi-hahiroth (ver. 7). 

Passage through the Red Sea 
(ver. 8). 

Three days’ march in the des- 
ert of Etliam (ver. 8). 

Marah (ver. S). 

Elim (ver. 9). 

Encampment by the Red Sea 
(ver. 10). 

Desert of Sin (ver. 11). 
Dophkah (ver. 12). 

Aiush (ver. 13). 

Rephidim (ver. 14). 

Desert of Sinai (ver. 15). 


(2.) From Sinai to Kadesh the second 'time. 
(Numbers x-xx). (Numbers xxxiii. 

From the desert of Sinai (x, From the desert of Siuai (ver. 

12 ). 10 ). 

[15.] Taberah (xi, 3 ; [Deut. 
ix, 22] 1. 

[16.] Kibroth-hattaavah (xi, Kibroth-hattaavah (ver. 16). 

• 34), in the edge of the 
desert of Paran (x, 

12 ). 


[17.] Hazeroth (xi, 35). 

[IS.] The desert of ’Arabah, 
by the way of Mount 
Seir [Dent, i, 1, 2], 


[19.] 

[20.] Kadesh, in the desert 
of Paran (xii, 16; 
xiii, 20) ; [Deut i, 2, 
19]. [Hence they turn 
back and wander for 
38 years (Numb, xiv, 
25 sq.) througli the 
desert (Deut. ii, 1)]. 

[ 21 .] 

[ 22 .] 

[23.] 

[2k] 

[25.] 

[ 20 .] 

[27.] 

[2S.] 

[29.] 

[30.] 

[31.] 

[32.] 

[33.] 

[34.] 

[35.] 

[30.] 

[37.] 


[38.] Return to Kadesh, in 
the desert of Zin 
(Numb, xx, 1), by 
the way of Mt. Seir 
(Deut. ii, 1). 


Ilazeroth (ver. 17). 

Dreadful desert by the way of 
the mount of the Animates 
[Deut. i, 19]. 

Rithmali (.ver. IS). 


Rimmon-parez (ver. 19). 

Libnah (ver. 20). 

Rissah (vtr. 21). 

Kehelathah (ver. 22). 

Mount Shapher (ver. 23). 
Haradah (ver. 24). 

Makheloth (ver. 25). 

Tahath (ver. 20). 

Tarali (ver. 27 ). 

Mithcah (ver. 2S). 
llashmonuh (ver. 29). 

Moseroili (ver. CO), 
liene-juakan (ver. 31). 

II or-hagidgad (ver. 32). 
Jotbathah (ver. 33). 

Ebronah (ver. 34). 

Ezion-geber (ver. 35), by th>3 
way of the Red Sea [Deut. 
ii, i], 

Kadesh, in the desert of Zin 
(ver. 36). 


Mount Uor (ver. 37). 


(3.) From Kadesh to the Jordan. 

(Numb, xx, xxi ; Deut. i, ii, (Numbers xxxiii.) 

x). 

From Kadesh (Numb, xx, From Kadesh (ver. 3 <). 

22 ). 

[39.] Beeroth Bene-jaakan 
(Dent, x, 6). 

[40.] Mount llor (Numb, xx, 

22), or Mosera (Deut. 
x, 6), where Aaron 
died. 

[41.] Gudgodah (Deut. x, 7). 

[42.] Jotbath (Deut. x, 7). 

[43 ] Way of the Red Sea 
(Numb, xxi, 4), by 
Ezion - geber (Deut. 
ii, 8). 

[44.] Elath (Deut. ii, S). 

[45.] 

[40.] 

[47.] Oboth (Numb, xxi, 10V 

[48.] Ije-abarim (Numb, xxi, 

11 ). 

[49.] The brook Zered (Numb, 
xxi, 12 ; Deut. ii, 13, 

14 ). 

[50.] The brook Arnon (Niim. 

xxi, 13; Deut. ii, 24). 

[5t.] 

r»52.] 

[53.] Beer (well), in the des- 
ert (Numb, xxi, 10, 

18). 

[54.] Mattanah (xxi, 18). 

[55.] Nahaliel (xxi, 19). 

[50.] Bamnth (xxi, 19). 

[57.] Pisgah, put for the 
range of Abarim, of 
which Pisgah was 
part (xxi, 20). 

[53.] By the way of Bashan 
to the plains of Monb 
by Jordan, near Jeri- 
cho (Numb, xxi, 33 ; 

xxii, i). 


Zalmonah (ver. 41). 

Punou (ver. 42). 

Oboth (ver. 43). 

Ije-abarim, or Iim (ver. 44,45). 


Dibon-gad (ver. 45). 
Almon-diblatliaim (ver. 46). 


Mountains of Abarim, near 
Nebo (ver. 47). 

Plains of Moab by Jordan, near 
Jericho (ver. 48). 


The points indicated in the above route as far as 
Kadesh have already been identified with considerable 
precision. It remains to consider how far the residue 
are capable of identification. For this purpose we 
have a few coincidences with modem or well-known 


EXODE 


408 


EXODE 



localities, and several repetitions of the same or simi- 
lar names, indicating a passage through the same spot 
from different directions. The rest must be supplied 
by conjecture, assisted by such suggestions as the na- 
ture of the region furnishes. It is a question whether 
the station TIithmah (Numb. xxxiii,18) was one reach- 
ed by the Israelites before or after their first arrival at 
Kadesh ; but as it is mentioned in immediate connec- 
tion with Ilazeroth, we may infer that it was either 
another name for Kadesh itself, or a locality so near it 
as to permit the omission of Kadesh in the summary 
where it occurs. After their repulse by the Canaan- 
ites at the pass called Nnkb es-Sufah, the Israelites 
may be supposed to have retreated along the westerly 
shore of the ’Arabah till they reached the wady el- 
Kafatiyeh, or that of Abu Jeradcli, which would afford 
them an ascent to the mountainous region occupying 
the northern interior of the desert, somewhere near 
the summit of whieh we may place, their next encamp- 
ment, called liimmon -parez. Libnah, where they 
next encamped, may not improbably be the same with 
Laban, given (I)cut. i, 1) as one of the extreme points 
of their region of wandering, and may have been situ- 
ated on the western declivity of the mountains, in the 
neighborhood of the wady cl-Ain, running down from 


Ain el-Kudeirat. Thence they may have proceeded 
down wady el-Ain to its junction with the large wady 
el-Arisli, where we may place the next station, Ilissah, 
in the vicinity of el-Kusaby, opposite Jebel el-Helal. 
Pursuing this last valley southward, they next halted 
at Kehclatliah, perhaps at its junction with wady el- 
Hasana, opposite Jebel Aclnnar, and thence eastward 
up wady el-Mayein, around the northern base of the 
Arait cn-Nakah, which we may identify with Mount 
Shapher, to the summit just beyond Ain el-Mavcin, 
where we may locate their next station, Ilaradah. 
Makheloth and Tahath may be located at suitable in- 
tervals along the northern base of the ridge el-Muk- 
rah, and Tarah at the intersection of the route south- 
easterly thence with the wady ei-Jerafch, which they 
would be likely to pursue (stopping at Mitbcah on the 
way) to its intersection with the wady el-Jeib, in the 
’Arabah, where we may locate ITashmonah. Thence 
is an easy stage to the next station, Moseroth, which 
is doubtless the same with Mosera, afterwards visited 
(Dcut. x, G), and there identified with the vicinity of 
Mount Hor, where Aaron died. Here we have a fixed 
point, whatever may be thought of the preceding con- 
jectural circuit, which doubtless occupied several years. 
We notice that Schwarz, although unable to fix the 


EXODE 


409 


EXODE 


stations at tnis portion of the itinerary of the Israel- 
ites, believes that they must have been in this high, 
rocky plateau, now occupied by the tribe Azazumeh 
( Palestine , p. 215). 

From Blount Ilor the next station indicated is Bene- 
jaakan (q. v.), evidently identical with the wells (Be- 
erotli) of the same name, mentioned subsequently in 
the reverse order between Kadesh and Mosera (Dent, 
x, G), and probably a general term for the well-water- 
ed region including the fountains el-IIufeiry, el-Buwei- 
rideh, el-Webeh, and el-Ghamr. At this last-named 
spot, having crossed the ’Arabali in a north-easterly’ 
direction, the Israelites may have pursued their route 
up wady el-Ghamr, avoiding their late track iu that vi- 
cinity (for the same names do not reappear), and thus 
by a south-westerly, and then southerly course, have 
fallen again into wady el-Jerafeh, and followed it up 
to where it forks into wady el-Ghudhngidh. This last 
name is probably a relic of that of their next station, 
Hor-hagidgad, essentially the same with the Giulgo- 
dah (q. v.) afterwards visited by them (Deut. x, 7) in 
retracing their steps through this region ; for although 
the letters of the Arabic and Heb. names are not iden- 
tical (as given in Robinson’s lists, Researches , iii, Ap- 
pendix, 210, where the orthography was probably taken 
only by ear), yet they are equivalent in sound, and in 
both cases contain the same peculiar reduplication. 
Thence making a southerly circuit across the heads 
of several wady’s running easterly from the little Jebel 
et-Tih, their next encampment was Jotbathah, coinci- 
dent with the Jotbath of Deut. x, 7, and there de- 
scribed as “a land of rivers and streams,” which we 
may naturally locate at the intersection of the route 
thus indicated with the upper wady Jerafeh, where is 
a confluence of several branch wadvs. Following up 
the chief of these, wady Mukutta et-Tawarik, in a 
south-easterly direction, they would fall in (at the sta- 
tion Ebronah) with the modern Haj route from Cairo, 
and follow it through the pass of ’Akabah to Ezion- 
geber on the Red Sea. Thence they appear to have 
taken their first path through the ’Arabali to Kadesh 
again. The following is a table of a few of the most 
definite of these results : 


N u.mb. xxxiii, 30-G5. 
(1.) Moserotli. 

(2.) Bene-jaakan. 

(3.) Hor-hagidgad. 
(4.) Jotbathah. 


Deut. x, C, 7. 
(2.) Mosera. 


(1.) Beeroth of the 
children of Ja- 
akan. 

(3.) Gudgodah. 

(4.) Jotbath. 


Conjectural Site. 
Ain et - Taiijibeh , 
near the foot of 
Mount Ilor. 

'Ain el-Webeh. 


Wadi f el - GhiidM- 
gidh. 

Confluence of ready 
eUAdhbeh with 
el-Jerafeh. 


2. The only events recorded during this period (and 
these are interspersed with sundry promulgations of 
the ceremonial law), are the execution of the offender 
who gathered sticks on the Sabbath (Numb, xv, 82- 
36), the rebellion of Korah (ch. xvi), aud, closely con- 
nected with it, the adjudgment of the pre-eminence to 
Aaron’s house with their kindred tribe, solemnly con- 
firmed by the judicial miracle of the rod that blossom- 
ed. This seems to have been followed by a more rigid 
separation between Levi and the other tribes as re- 
gards the approach to the tabernacle than had been 
practically recognised before (xxvii : xviii, 22 : comp, 
xvi, 40). 

We are not told how the Israelites came into pos- 
session of the city Kadesh-Barnea, as seems implied in 
the narrative of their second arrival there, nor who 
were its previous occupants. The probability is that 
these last were a remnant of the Horites, who, after 
their expulsion by Edom from Mount Seir [see Edom], 
may have here retained their last hold on the territory' 
between Edom and the Canaanitish Amorites of “the 
south.” Probably Israel took it by force of arms, 
which may have induced the attack of “Arad the Ca- 
naanite,” who would then feel his border immediately 


threatened (Numb, xxxiii, 40; comp, xxi, 1). This 
warlike exploit of Israel may perhaps be alluded to 
in Judg. v, 4 as the occasion when Jehovah “ went out 
of Seir” and “marched out of the field of Edom” to 
give his people victory. The attack of Arad, how- 
ever, though with some slight success at first, only 
brought defeat upon himself and destruction upon his 
cities (xxi, 3). We learn from xxxiii, 36 only that 
Israel inarched without permanent halt from Ezion- 
geber upon Kadesh. This sudden activity, after their 
, long period of desultory and purposeless wandering, 

I may have alarmed king Arad. The itinerary takes 
here another stride from Kadesh to Mount Hor. There 
their being occupied with the burial of Aaron may have 
given Arad his fancied opportunity of assaulting the 
rear of their march, he descending from the north 
whilst they also were facing southwards. In direct 
connection with these events we come upon a single 
passage in Deuteronomy (x, 6, 7), which is a scrap of 
narrative imbedded in Moses’s recital of events at Ho- 
reb long previous. This contains a short list of names 
of localities, on comparing which with the itinerary 
we get some clew to the line of march from the region 
Kadesh to Ezion-geber southwards. See Kadesh. 

VII. F* ' om Kadesh to Canaan. 

1. This third division of the Israelites’ route is more 
susceptible of identification than either of the others, 
after having fixed by the foregoing process some im- 
portant points, and in its latter portion is quite unmis- 
takable. The Israelites evidently retraced their steps 
down the ’Arabali, perhaps keeping along its western 
side, at the farthest distance from the borders of Edom, 
till they’ arrived once more at the well-watered tract 
of the descendants of Jaakan, about half way between 
Kadesh and Mount Hor, or Mosera, to which they 
next crossed over, and where Aaron died (Deut. x, 6). 
From this point, again avoiding the territory’ of the 
Edomites, they’ passed over by’ a considerable deflec- 
tion, in a south-westerly’ direction, through wady el- 
Jerafeh to wady r el-Ghudliagidh (which we have be- 
fore identified with Gudgodah, or Ilor-hagidgad), on 
their former track, around through Jotbath (Deut. x, 
7), and back again to the Red Sea at Ezion-geber and 
Elath (Deut. ii, 8, where, however, the two latter 
names occur in the reverse order). From this last 
point, having crossed the plain of the ’Arabali, they 
doubled the southern extremity’ of Mount Seir, through 
wady el-Itlun, and pitched at Zalmonah, probably’ in 
the edge of the eastern desert plain, near the junction 
of wady’ el-Amran. Pursuing thence their route north- 
easterly along the present road that skirts the base of 
Mount Seir, they’ next arrived at Pnnon, which we 
may’ locate near the intersection of their route with the 
Haj road from Damascus. Keeping still along the base 
of the Mount-Seir range, they’ next halted at Oboth, 
situated probably’ in the region of wady’ el-Ghuweit, 
where the first stream takes its rise, emptying into the 
Dead Sea from the south. Pursuing the same road 
northwards that travellers at this day take along this 
route, they’ doubtless passed near Tufileh (Tophel, one 
of the points in their wanderings, Deut. i, 1), and halted 
at Ije-abarim, probably’ near the wady’ el-Ahsy’, which 
runs into wady el-Kurahy r , the southern border of 
Moab. Their next stations are easily’ identified: the 
brook Zered can be no other than wady’ el-Deraah, the 
two forks of which inclose Kerak ; the brook Arnon is 
conceded to be wady’ Mojeb; and Dihon-gad is evi- 
dently’ the modern Dliiban. From this last point they’ 
appear to have diverged considerably’ (apparently’ with 
a view to meet the hostile Sihon at Jahaz) to the east 
of the modern road, into the desert, where they’ passed 
through several unknown localities (in short stages, 
while waiting for the return of messengers asking 
leave of passage), Almon-Diblathaim, Beer,Mattanah, 
and Nabaliel [see each in its alphabetical place], and 
then returned by a slight north-westerly’ circuit to Ba- 
moth (perhaps Jebel-Humeh), apparently’ some point 


EXODE 


410 


EXODE 


opposite Pisgali, a peak (specially corresponding prob- ( 
aldy to Jebel Attarus) of the mountains inclosing the ! 
valley of the Jordan oil the east. About this time the 
expedition -was sent out against Sihon, Og, and the in- 
habitants of llashan ; upon the successful return of 
which they passed northward around the heights of 
Nebo (probably west of IIeshbon\ and so across the 
general range of Abanin bv one of the valleys running 
south-westerly into the Jordan (probably wady Ilesh- 
ban). In this last vicinity they encamped in the 
plains of Moab, preparatory to crossing the Jordan op- 
posite Jericho. (See each of the stations above-named [ 
in its alphabetical place.) 

2. When we begin to take up the thread of the story 
at the second visit to Kadesh, we find that time had, 
in the interval, been busy at its destructive work, and 
we thus gain confirmation of the view which has been 
taken of such second visit. No sooner has the sacred 
historian told us of the return of the Israelites to Ka- 
desh, than he records the death and burial of Miriam, 
and lias, at no great distance of time, to narrate that 
of Aaron and Moses. While still at Kadesh a rising 
against these leaders takes place, on the alleged ground 
of a want of water. Water is produced from the rock 
at a spot called hence Meribah (strife). But Moses 
and Aaron displeased God in this proceeding, probably 
because they distrusted God’s providence and applied 
for extraordinary lesources. On account of this dis- 
pleasure, it was announced to them that they should 
not enter Canaan. A similar transaction has been al- 
ready spoken of as taking place in Rephidim (Exod. 
xvii, 1). The same name, Meribah, was occasioned in 
that as in this matter. Hence it has been thought 
that we have here two versions of the same story. 
But there is nothing surprising, under the circum- 
stances, in the outbreak of discontent for want of wa- 
ter, which may well have happened even more than 
twice. The places arc different, very wide apart ; the 
time is different ; and there is also the great variation 
arising out of the conduct and punishment of Moses 
and Aaron. On the whole, therefore, we judge the 
two records to speak of different transactions. 

Relying on the ties of blood (Gen. xxxii, 8), Moses 
sent to ask of the Edomites a passage through their 
territory into Canaan. The answer was a refusal, ac- 
companied by a display of force. We suggest as an 
explanation of this unnatural churlishness that per- 
haps the request chanced to be preferred to the native 
Horite “king” (probably the very Hadad last men- 
tioned in the list in Gen. xxxvi, 39) rather than to 
the phylareh of the Esauitcs contemporary with him 
(Gen. xxxvi, 43). Sec Esau. The Israelites, there- 
fore, were compelled to turn their face southward, and, 
making a turn around the end of the Elanitic gulf, 
reached Mount ITor, near Petra, on the top of which 
Aaron died. Finding the country bad for travelling, 
and their food unpleasant, Israel again broke out into 
rebellious discontent, and was punished by fiery ser- 
pents which bit the people, and many died, when a 
remedy was provided in a serpent of brass set on the 
flag-staff (Numb, xxi, 4 sq.). There is near Elath a 
promontory known as the R<is Um II aye, “ the mother 
of serpents,” which seem to abound in the region ad- 
jacent ; and, if we may suppose this the scene of that 
judgment, the event would thus he connected with the 
line of march, rounding the southern border of Mount 
Seir, laid clown in Dent, ii, 8 as being “through the 
way of the plain (i. e. the ’Arabah) from Elath and 
from Ezion-geber,” whence “turning northward,” 
having “compassed that mountain (Mount Seir) long 
enough,” they “passed by the way of the wilderness 
of Moab” (v, 3, 8). Still going northward, and proba- 
bly pursuing the caravan route from Damascus, they 
at length reached the valley of Zcred (the brook), 
which may be the present wady Kerek, that runs from 
the oast into the Dead Sea. Hence they removed 
and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which is in the 


border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites** 
(Numb, xxi, 13). Beer (the well) was the next sta- 
tion, where, finding a plentiful supply of water, and 
being rejoiced at the prospect of the speedy termina- 
tion of their journey, the people indulged in music and 
song, singing “the song of the well” (Numb, xxi, 17, 
18). The Amorites being requested, refused to give 
Israel a passage through their borders, and so the na- 
tion was again compelled to proceed still in a norther- 
ly course. At length, having beaten the Amorites, 
and Og, king of Bashan, they reached the Jordan, and 
pitched their tents at a spot which lay opposite Jcri- 
| cho. Here Balak, king of the Moabites, alarmed at 
' their numbers and their successful prowess, invited 
Balaam to curse Israel, in the hope of being thus aided 
to overcome them and drive them out. The intended 
, curse proved a blessing in the prophet’s mouth. "While 
here the people gave way to the idolatrous practices of 
the Moabites, when a terrible punishment was inflicted, 
partly by a plague which took off 24,000, and partly 
by the avenging sword. Moses, being commanded to 
take the sum of the children of Israel, from twenty 
years upwards, found they amounted to 600,730, among 
whom there was not a man of those whom Moses and 
Aaron numbered in the wilderness of Sinai (Numb, 
xxvi, 47. 64). Moses is now directed to ascend Aba- 
rim, to Mount Nebo, in the land of Moab, over against 
Jericho, in order that he might survey the land which 
he was not to enter on account of his having rebelled 
against God’s commandment in the desert of Zin 
(Numb, xxvii, 12; Deut. xxxii, 49). Conformably 
with the divine command, Moses went up from the 
plains of Moab unto the mountains of Nel o, to the top 
of Pisgah, and there he died, at the age of 120 years: 
“Ilis eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated” 
(Deut. xxxiv). Under his successor, Joshua, the He- 
brews were forthwith led across the Jordan, and estab- 
lished in the Land of Promise. 

Thus a journey, which the} 7 " might have performed 
in a few months, they spent forty years in accom- 
plishing, bringing on themselves unspeakable toil and 
trouble, and, in the end, death, as a punishment for 
their gross and sensual appetites, and their unbending 
indocility to the divine will (Numb, xiv, 23; xxvi, 
65). Joshua, however, gained thereby a great advan- 
tage, inasmuch as it was with an entirely new gen- 
eration that he laid the foundations of the civil and 
religious institutions of the Mosaic polity in Pales- 
tine. This advantage may be assigned as the reason 
why so long a period of years was spent in the wilder- 
ness. 

VIII. Literature. — Besides the incidental treatment 
of this subject in general works on sacred geography, 
the writings of travellers through the region in ques- 
tion, and commentaries on the parts of Scripture re- 
lating to it, the following special treatises exist: — La- 
bordc, Commentaire Giographique sur VExode et lesXom- 
bres (Paris and Leipz. 1811, fol.) ; Base, Tabula Synop - 
tica statonum hr adit arum , etc. (Norimb. 1739, fob); 
Bertholdt, De rebus a J lose in JEgypto gestis (Erl. 1795, 
8vo); Plitt, Die 40 jahrige Reisen cl. Israeliten (lurch cl. 
lT7/s/e (Cassel, 1775, 8vo) ; Calmet, De transfret at ione 
Erythrai (in vol. i, p. 211 sq. of his Dissertations in V. 
T "NVireeb. 1789, 8vo) ; Benzel, De transitu Israel, per 
Mare Rubmm (in his Syntagma I)issertt. ii, 137 sq.) ; 
Michaclis (ed.), Essai sur Vheure du passage des lie - 
| breux de la Mer Rouge (Gottingen, 1758, 8vo) ; Zeibieh, 
Durchgang d. Israeliten , etc. (in his Verm. Eeitr. i, 42 
sq.) ; also De dissidio in enarrando itinerc hr. per Mare 
(A'itcb. 1752, 4to); Reimarus, Durchg. d. Israel, durchs 
rathe Meer (in Lessing's Bcitrage , fragm. 3) ; Richter, 
Meer dvreh irelches d. Israel, gegangen, etc. (Lpz. 1778, 
8vo) : Kleuker, Wanderung d. Israel, durchs rothe Meer 
! (Frankf. 1778, 8vo) ; Moldenhaner, Prvfung d. dritten 
Fragments (IJamb. 1779, 8vo) ; Ltidcrwald, Durchg. d. 
hr. dnrehs rothe Meer (Ilelmst. 1779, Svo) ; Doderlein, 

| Fragmente u. Antifragmente , i, 85-112 ; Ritter, Ueberg. 


EXODUS 


411 


EXODUS 


d. Isr.durch d. rothe Meer (in Henke’s Magaz. iv, 291 
sq.) ; treatises, De transitu popnli Israel, etc., in the 
Critici Sacri , Thes. Nor. i, 274, 292, 300 ; Auspitz, “1X3 
rim^n (s. 1. 1818, 8vo) ; Dietz, Vestimenta Israel, in 
desert o (Wittenb. 1676, 4to) ; Dorsche, De educt. Israel 
ex sEgypto (Strasb. 1652, 4to) ; Holste,7/er Isr. ex xEg. 
ad Canaan (Host. 1707, 4to) ; Klein, Israel's Wander- 
ungen (Bamberg, 1839, 8vo) ; Rattmer, Zug der Isr . 
aus ACgypto nach Canaan (Leipzig 1837, 8vo) ; Tliier- 
baeh, id. (ib. eod. 8vo) ; also Durchg. d. Isr. durch einem 
Theil d'S mittell. Meeres (Erfurt, 1830, 8vo) ; Unruh, 
Zug der Isr. aus sEg. nach Canaan (Langensl.1860, 8vo); 
Zinek, De transitu Maris Erythrad (Augsb. 1778, 4to); 
Banaditis, Itinerarium fdiorum Israel (Antw. 1621, fol.) ; 
Lightfoot, Itinera Israelitarum ( 1 Vorks, ii, 415) ; Anon. 
Journeys of the Children of Israel (Lond. 1832, 18mo); 
Seaton, Church in the Wilderness (London, 1821, 2 vols. 
12mo) ; Alexander, De exitn ex sEgypto ( Hist . Eccles. 
ii, 137); Bp. Lloyd, Origins of Jeicish Church (in Wins- 
ton’s Sacred History , i, 46) ; Berton, L'itineraire des Is- 
raelites (Par. 1860, 4to) ; Tischendorf, De Isr. per Mare 
Rabrum transitu (Lips. 1847, 8vo) ; Miss Corbanx, Exo- 
dus Papyri (London, 1855, 8vo) ; Krunmiaeher, Israel's 
Wanderings in the Wilderness (London, 1837-8, 2 vols. 
12mo) ; Bram, Israel's Wanderung von Cosen bis zum 
Sinai (Elbeuf, 1859, Svo); Forster, Israel in the Wilder- 
ness (Lond. 18G5, 8vo) ; see the Stud. u. Krit. 1839, ii, 
397 sq. ; Jour. Sac. Lit. April, 1859 ; April, 1860. The 
best map of the region where the passage of the Red 
Sea was effected is Linant’s, in the Atlas of the official 
surveys for the Suez Canal, entitled “ Per cement de 
VIsthme de Suez" (Paris, 1855 sq.). See Wilder- 
ness. 

Ex'odus (Gr."E£o£oe,an exit; in the Hebrew canon 
fW'S'r ftrX), ve-eVleh shemoth\ its initial words, or 
simply P.’va'J ; in the Masora to Gen. xxiv, S called 
*ppM2, see Buxt. Lex. Tabn. col. 1325 ; Vulg. Exodus ), 
the second hook of the law or Pentateuch, so called 
from the principal event recorded in it, namely, the de~ 
parture of the Israelites from Egpyt. See Exode. 
With this book begins the proper history of that peo- 
ple, continuing it until their arrival at Sinai, and the 
erection of the sanctuary there. 

1. Contents. — 1. Preparation for the Deliverance of 
Israel from their Bondage in Egypt. — This first section 
(i, 1-xii, 36) contains an account of the following par- 
ticulars : The great increase of Jacob’s posterity in the 
land of Egypt, and their oppression under a new dy- 
nasty, which occupied the throne after the death of 
Josepli (ch. i) ; the birth, education, and flight of Moses 
(ch. ii) ; his solemn call to be the deliverer of his people 
(iii, 1 iv, 17), and his return to Eg} T pt in consequence 
(iv, 18-31) ; his first ineffectual attempt to prevail upon 
Pharaoh to let the Israelites go, which only resulted in 
an increase of their burdens (v, 1-21) ; a farther prep- 
aration of Moses and Aaron for their office, together 
with the account of their genealogies (v, 22-vii, 7) ; 
the successive signs and wonders, by means of which 
the deliverance of Israel from the land of bondage is 
at length accomplished, and the institution of the Pass- 
over (vii, 8-xii, 36). 

2. Narrative of Events from the Departure out of 
Egypt to the Arrival of the Israelites at Mount Sinai . — 
We have in this section (a.) the departure and (men- 
tioned in connection with it) the injunctions then 
given respecting the Passover and the sanctification 
of the first-born (xii, 37-xiii, 16) ; the march to the 
Red Sea, the passage through it, and the destruction 
of Pharaoh and his host in the midst of the sea, togeth- 
er with Moses’s song of triumph upon the occasion 1 
(xiii, 17-xv, 21) ; ( 5 .) the principal events on the jour- 1 
ney from the Red Sea to Sinai, the bitter waters at 
Marah, the giving of quails and of the manna, the ob- 
servance of the Sabbath, the miraclous supply of water j 
from the rock at Rephidim, and the battle there with I 


the Amalekites (xv, 22-xvii, 16) ; the arrival of Jethro 
in the Israelitish camp, and his advice as to the civil 
government of the people (xviii). 

3. The Solemn Establishment of the Theocracy on 
Mount Sinai. — The people are set apart to God as “a 
kingdom of priests and a holy nation” (xix, 6); the 
ten commandments are given, and the laws which are 
to regulate the social life of the people are enacted 
(xxi, 1-xxiii, 19); an angel is promised as their guide 
to the Promised Land, and the covenant between God 
and Moses, Nad ah and Abihu, and seventy elders, as 
the representatives of the people, is most solemnly 
ratified (xxiii, 20-xxiv, 18) ; instructions are given re- 
specting the tabernacle, the ark, the mercy-seat, the 
altar of burnt-offering, the separation of Aaron *and his 
sons for the priest’s office, the vestments which they 
are to wear, the ceremonies to be observed at their 
consecration, the altar of incense, the laver, the holy 
oil, the selection of Bezaleel and Alioliab for the work 
of the tabernacle, the observance of the Sabbath and 
the delivery of the two tables of the law into the hands 
of Moses (xxv, 1-xxxi, 18) ; the sin of the people in 
the matter of the golden calf, their rejection in conse- 
quence, and their restoration to God’s favor at the in- 
tercession of Moses (xxxii, 1-xxxiv, 35) ; lastly, the 
construction of the tabernacle, and all pertaining to its 
service in accordance with the injunctions previously 
given (xxxv, 1-xl, 38). 

This book, in short, gives a sketch of the early his- 
tory of Israel as a nation : and the history has three 
clearly marked stages. First we see a nation en- 
slaved ; next a nation redeemed ; lastly a nation set 
apart, and, through the blending of its religious and 
political life, consecrated to the service of God. The 
close literary connection between the books of Gene- 
sis and Exodus is clearly marked by the Hebrew con- 
junctive particle 1 ( vav\ “and,” with which the latter 
begins, and still more by the recapitulation of the 
name of Jacob’s sons who accompanied him to Egypt, 
abridged from the fuller account in Gen. xlvi, 8-17. 
Still the book of Exodus is not a continuation in strict 
chronological sequence of the preceding history ; for a 
very considerable interval is passed over in silence, sav- 
ing only the remark, “And the children of Israel were 
fruitful and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and 
waxed exceedingly mighty; and the land was filled 
with them” (Exod. i, 7). The pretermission of all 
that concerned Israel during this period and their in- 
tercourse with the Egyptians, instead of being an indi- 
cation, as Rationalists allege, of the fragmentary char- 
acter of the Pentateuch, only shows the sacred purpose 
of the history, and that, in the plan of the writer, con- 
siderations of a merely political interest were entirely 
subordinate to the divine intentions already partially 
unfolded in Genesis, and to be still farther developed 
in the course of the present narrative regarding the 
national constitution of the seed of Abraham. 

II. Unity. — According to Von Lengerke ( Kenaan , 
lxxxviii, xc), the following portions of the book belong 
to the original or Elohistic document : Chap, i, 1-14 ; 
ii, 23-25; vi, 2- vii, 7 ; xii, 1-28, 37, 38, 40-51 (xiii, 1, 
2, perhaps) ; xvi ; xix, 1 ; xx ; xxv-xxxi ; xxxv-xl. 
Stahelin (Krit. Unterss.') and De Wette ( Einleitimg ) 
agree in the main with this division. Knobel, the 
most recent writer on the subject, in the introduction 
to his commentary on Exodus and Leviticus, has sifted 
these books still more carefully, and with regard to 
many passages has formed a different judgment. He 
assigns to the Elohist : i, 1-7, 13, 14 ; ii, 23-25, from 
vi, 2— vii, 7; except vi, 8; vii, 8-13, 19-22; viii, 
1-3, 11 from and 12-15; ix, 8-12 and 35; xi, 9, 
10 ; xii, 1-23, 28, 37 a, 40-42, 43-51 ; xiii, 1, 2, 20 ; xiv, 
1-4, 8, 9, 15-18 (except “>*?X p^’IiP !T2 in ver. 15, and 
PX J1I331 in ver. 16), 21-23, and 26-29 (except 
27 from 2^*1) ; xv, 19, 22, 23, 27 ; xvi, 1, 2, 9-26, 31-- 


EXODUS 


412 


EXODUS 


36; xvii, 1; xix, 2 a; xxv-xxxi, 13, 12-17 in the 
main ; xxxv, 1-xl, 38. 

A mere comparison of the two lists of passages se- 
lected hv these different writers as belonging to the 
original document is sufficient to show how very un- 
certain all such critical processes must be. The first, 
that of Lengerke, is open to many objections, which 
have been urged by Ilavernick ( Einlelt . in dev rent. § 
117), Kanke, and others. Thus, for instance, vi, 6, 
which all agree in regarding as Elohistic, speaks of 
“great judgments” (D^Ply in the plural), 

wherewith God would redeem Israel, and yet not a 
word is said of these in the so-called original docu- 
ment. Again, xii, 12, 23, 27 contains the announce- 
ment of the destruction of the first-born of Egypt, but 
the fulfilment of the threat is to be found, according 
to the critics, only in the later Jehovistic additions. 
Hupfehl has tried to escape this difficulty by supposing 
that the original documents did contain an account of 
the slaving of the first-born, as the institution of the 
Passover in xii, 12, etc., has clearly a reference to it: 
only he will not allow that the story as it now stands 
is that account. But even then the difficulty is only 
partially removed, for thus one judgment only is men- 
tioned, not many (vi, 6). Knobel has done his hest to 
obviate this glaring inconsistency. Feeling no doubt 
that the ground taken by his predecessors was not 
tenable, he retains as a part of the original work much 
which they had rejected. It is especially worthy of 
notice that he considers some at least of the miracu- 
lous portions of the story to belong to the older docu- 
ment, and so accounts for the expression in vi, 6. The 
changing of Aaron’s rod into a serpent, of the waters 
of the Kile into blood, the plague of frogs, of musqui- 
toes (A. V. lice), and of boils, and the destruction of 
the first-born, are, according to Knobel, Elohistic. He 
points out what he considers here links of connection, 
and a regular sequence in the narrative. He bids us 
observe that Jehovah always addresses Moses, and that 
Moses directs Aaron how to act. The miracles, then, 
are arranged in order of importance : first there is the 
sign which serves to accredit the mission of Aaron; 
next follow three plagues, which, however, do not 
touch men, and these are sent through the instrumen- 
tality of Aaron ; the fourth plague is a plague upon 
man, and here Moses takes the most prominent part; 
the fifth and last is accomplished by Jehovah himself. 
Thus the miracles increase in intensity as they go on. 
The agents likewise rise in dignity. If Aaron with 
his rod of might begins the work, he gives way after- 
wards to his greater brother, whilst for the last act of 
redemption Jehovah employs no human agency, but 
himself with a mighty hand and outstretched arm ef- 
fects the deliverance of his people. The passages thus 
selected have no doubt a sort of connection, but it is in 
the highest degree arbitrary to conclude that because 
portions of a work may be omitted without seriously 
disturbing the sense, these portions do not belong to 
the original work, but must be regarded as subsequent 
embellishments and additions. 

Again, all agree in assigning chaps, iii and iv to the 
Jebovist. The call of Moses, as there described, is 
said to be merely the Jehovistic parallel to vi, 2-vii, 7. 
Yet it seems improbable that the Elohist should intro- 
duce Hoses with the bare words, “And God spake to 
Moses” (vi, 2), without a single word as to the previous 
history of so remarkable a man. So argues Hiivcr- 
niek, and, as it appears to us, not without reason. It 
will be observed that none of these critics attempt to 
make the divine names a criterion whereby to distin- 
guish the several documents. Thus, in the Jehovistic 
portion (i, 15-22), De Wette is obliged to remark, with 
a sort of uneasy candor, “but ver. 17, 20 ,Klohim (?),” 
and again (iii, 4, 6, 11-15), “here seven times Elohim.” 
In other places there is the same difficulty a£ in xix, 
17, 19, which Stahclin, as well as Knobel, gives to the 


Jehovist. In the passages in chaps, vii, viii, ix, which 
Knobel classes in the earlier record, the name Jehovah 
occurs throughout. It is obvious, then, that there 
must be other means of determining the relative an- 
tiquity of the different portions of the hook, or the at- 
tempt to ascertain which are earlier and which are 
later must entirely fail. 

Accordingly, certain peculiarities of style are sup- 
posed to be characteristic of the two documents. Thus, 
for instance, De Wette (Einl. § 151, S. 183) appeals to 

rc-n ms, i, 7; r^n '-n carra, xii, 17 , 4i ; t^rn 

mnn, vi,4; the formula "I’SIx’b ilCB PK ^ 
xxv, i ; xxx, 11, etc. ; JlIKSU, vi, 26 ; vii, 4 ; xii, 17, 
41, 51; C-a^n -pa, xii, G; xxix, 41; xxx, 8, and 
other expressions, as decisive of the Elohist. Stahe- 
lin also proposes on very similar grounds to separato 
the first from the second legislation. “ Wherever,” lie 
says, “ I find mention of a pillar of fire, or of a cloud 
(Exod. xxxiii, 9, 10), or an ‘angel of Jehovah,’ as 
Exod. xxiii, xxiv, or the phrase ‘flowing with milk 
and honey,’ as Exod. xiii, 5; xxxiii, 3 . . . where men- 
tion is made of a coming down of God, as Exod. xix, 
xxxiv, 5, or where the Canaanitish nations are num- 
bered, or the tabernacle supposed to be without the 
camp (Exod. xxxiii, 7), I feel tolerably certain that I 
am reading the words of the author of the second leg- 
islation (i. e. the Jehovist).” But these nice critical 
distinctions are very precarious, especially in a stereo- 
typed language like the Hebrew. 

Unfortunately, too, dogmatical prepossessions have 
been allowed some share in the controversy. De 
Wette and his school chose to set down everything 
which savored of a miracle as proof of later author- 
ship. The love of the marvellous, w'bich is all they 
see in the stones of miracles, according to them could 
not have existed in an earlier and simpler age. But 
on their own hypothesis this is a very extraordinary 
view ; for the earlier traditions of a people are not gen- 
erally the least wonderful, but the reverse ; and one 
cannot thus acquit the second writer of a design in em- 
bellishing his narrative. However, this is not the 
place to argue with those who deny the possibility of 
a miracle, or who make the narration of miracles proof 
sufficient of later authorship. Into this error Knobel, 
it is true, has not fallen. By admitting some of the 
plagues into his Elohistic catalogue, he shows that he 
is at least free from the dogmatic prejudices of critics 
like Dc Wette. But his own critical tests are not con- 
clusive. And the way in w'hich he cuts verses to 
pieces, as in viii, 11, and xiii, 15, 16, 27, where it suits 
his purpose, is so completely arbitrary, anti results so 
evidently from the stern constraint of a theory, that 
his labors in this direction are not more satisfactory 
than those of his predecessors. 

On the whole, there seems much reason to doubt 
whether critical acumen will ever be able plausibly to 
distinguish between the original and the supplement 
in the book of Exodus. There is nothing indeed forced 
or improbable in the supposition either that Moses 
himself incorporated in his memoirs ancient tradition, 
whether oral or w’ritten, or that a writer later than 
Moses made use of materials left by the great legisla- 
tor in a somewhat fragmentary form. There is an oc- 
casional abruptness in the narrative, which suggests 
that this may possibly have been the case, as in the 
introduction of the genealogy, vi, 13-27. The remarks 
in xi, 3 ; xvi, 35, 36, lead to the same conclusion. The 
apparent confusion at xi, 1-3 may he explained by re- 
garding these verses as parenthetical. Inasmuch, how- 
ever, as there exists no definite proof or knowledge of 
any later editor, except it he Joshua or Ezra, to whom 
isolated and unimportant additions may he attributed, 
we are not warranted in attributing the book to any 
other author than Moses. See Pentateuch. 

III. Credibility . — Almost every historical fact men- 
tioned in Exodus has at some time or other been called 


EXODUS 


413 


EXODUS 


in question ; but it is certain that all investigation 
has hitherto only tended to establish the veracity of 
the narrator. A comparison with other writers and 
an examination of the monuments confirm, or at least 
do not contradict, the most material statements of this 
book. Thus, for instance, Manetho’s story of the Hyk- 
sos, questionable as much of it is, and differently as it 
has been interpreted by different writers, points at 
least to some early connection between the Israelites 
and the Egyptians, and is corroborative of the fact im- 
plied in the Pentateuch that, at the time of the Israel- 
itish sojourn, Egypt was ruled by a foreign dynasty. 
See Egypt. Manetlio speaks, too, of strangers from 
the East who occupied the eastern part of Lower 
Egypt ; and his account shows that the Israelites had 
become a numerous and formidable people. Accord- 
ing to Exod. xii, 37, the number of men, besides wom- 
en and children, who left Egypt was 000,000. This 
would give for the whole nation about two millions 
and a half. There is no doubt some difficulty in ac- 
counting for this immense increase, if we suppose (as 
on many accounts seems probable) that the actual res- 
idence of the children of Israel was only 215 years. 
We must remember, indeed, that the number who went 
into Egypt with Jacob was considerably more than 
“threescore and ten souls” [see Chronology] ; we 
must also take into account the extraordinary fruit- 
fulness of Egypt (concerning which all writers are 
agreed — Strabo, xv, 478; Aristot. Hist. Anim. vii, 4; 
Pliny, If. N. vii, 3; Seneca, Qu. Nat. iii, 25, quoted by 
Hiivernick), and especially of that part of it in which 
the Israelites dwelt; and, finalty, we must take into 
the account the “ mixed multitude” that accompanied 
the Israelites (Exod. xii, 38). 

According to De Wettc, the story of Moses’s birth is 
mythical, and arises from an attempt to account ety- 
mologically for his name. But the beautiful simplici- 
ty of the narrative places it far above the stories of 
Romulus, Cyrus, and Semiramis, with which it has 
been compared (Knobel, p. 14). As regards the ety- 
mology of the name, there can be very little doubt 
that it is Egyptian (from the Copt, mo, “water,” and 
si, “ to take”), and if so, the author has merely played 
upon the name. But this does not prove that th'e 
whole story is nothing but a myth. Philology as a 
science is of very modern growth, and the truth of his- 
tory does not stand or fail with the explanation of ety- 
mologies. The same remark applies to De Wettc s 
objection to the etymology in ii, 22. 

Other objections are of a very arbitrary kind. Thus 
Knobel thinks the command to destroy the male chil- 
dren (i, 15 sq.) extremely improbable, because the ob- 
ject of the king was not to destroy the people, but to 
make use of them as slaves. To require the midwives 
to act as the enemies of their own people, and to issue 
an injunction that every son born of Israelitish par- 
ents should be thrown into the Nile, was a piece of 
downright madness of which he thinks the king would 
not be guilty. But we do not know that the midwives 
were Hebrew; they may have been Egyptian; and 
kings, like other slave-owners, may act contrary to 
their interest in obedience to their fears or their pas- 
sions ; indeed, Knobel himself compares the story of 
king Boeehoris, who commanded all the unclean in his 
land to he east into the sea (Lysim. ap. Josephus, c. 
Apion. i, 34), and the destruction of the Spartan helots 
(Plutarch, Lycnrg. 28). He objects further that it is 
not easy to reconcile such a command with the num- 
ber of the Israelites at their exode. But we suppose 
that in very many instances the command of the king 
would be evaded, and probably it did not long continue 
in force. 

Again, De Wette objects to the call of Moses that he 
could not have thus formed the resolve to become the 
saviour of liis people, which, as llavcrnick justly re- 
marks, is a dogmatical, not a critical decision. 

It has been alleged that the place, according to the 


original narrative, where God first appeared to Moses 
was Egypt, God making himself known as Jehovah, 
that being the first intimation of the name (Exod. vi, 
2). Another account, it is further alleged, places the 
scene at Horeb (eh. iii, 2), God appearing as the God 
of the patriarchs (ver. 6), and declaring his name Je- 
hovah (ver. 14) ; while a third makes Midian the scene 
of the interview (eh. iv, 19). These assumptions re- 
quire no refutation. It need only be remarked that 
the name Jehovah in ch. vi, 2 necessarily presupposes 
the explanation given of it in chap, iii, 14. Further, 
Moses’s abode in Midian, and connection with Jethro, 
were matters, Knobel affirms, quite unknown to the 
older writer, while his statement that Moses was eighty 
years old when he appeared before Pharaoh (chap, vii, 
7), is declared irreconcilable with the supplementary 
narrative which represents him as a young man at the 
time of his flight from Egypt (eh. ii, 11), and a son by 
Zipporah, whom he married probably on his arrival in 
Midian, is still young when he returned to Egypt (eh. 
iv, 20, 25 ; xviii, 2). There can be no question that 
from Moses’s leaving Egypt till his return thither a 
considerable time elapsed. It is stated in Exod. ii, 23 
as “ many days,” and by Stephen (Acts vii, 30) as forty 
years. But it is not necessary to suppose that his 
abode in Midian extended over the whole* of that pe- 
riod. The expression “he sat down,” or set- 

tled (Exod. ii, 15), may only ‘point to Midian as the 
end of his wanderings; or if otherwise, his marriage 
need not have followed immediately on his arrival, or 
there may have been a considerable interval between 
the birth of his two sons. The silence, indeed, of this 
part of the narrative regarding the birth of the second 
son may possibly he referrible to this circumstance, 
more probably indicated, however, by the different feel- 
ings of the father as expressed in the names Gershom 
and Eliezer (ch. ii, 22 ; xviii, 4). The order of these 
names is perplexing to expositors who conceive that 
the first thoughts of the fugitive would have been 
thankfulness for his safety, and that only afterwards 
would spring up the feelings of exile. But if the name 
Eliezer was bestowed in connection with the prepara- 
tion to return to Egypt, and particularly with the in- 
timation “ all the men are dead which sought thy life” 
(ch. iv, 19), the whole is strikingly consistent. An- 
other instance of the alleged discrepancies is that, ac- 
cording to one account, Moses’ s reception from his 
brethren was very discouraging (chap, vi, 9), whereas 
the other narrative describes it as quite the reverse 
(ch. iv, 31). De Wette calls this a striking contradic- 
tion, but it is only such when the intermediate section 
(ch. v, 19-23), which shows the change that in the in- 
terval had occurred in the prospects of the Israelites, 
is violently ejected from the narrative — a process fitted 
to produce contradictions in any composition. See 
Moses. 

The only alleged anachronism of importance in this 
book is the remark relative to the continuance of the 
manna (chap, xvi, 35), which would seem to extend it 
beyond the time of Moses, particularly when compared 
with Josh, v, 11, 12, according to which the manna 
ceased not until after the passage of the Jordan. But, 
as remarked by Hengstenberg, it is not of the cessa- 
tion of the manna that the historian here writes, but 
of its continuance. Besides, “forty years” must be 
taken as a round number, for the manna, strictly 
speaking, lasted about one month less (ch. xvi, 1). See 
Manna. 

The ten plagnes are physically, many of them, what 
might be expected in Egypt, although in their intens- 
ity and in their rapid succession they are clearly su- 
pernatural. Even the order in which they occur is an 
order in which physical causes are allowed to operate. 
The corruption of the river is followed by the plague 
of frogs. From the dead frogs are bred the gnats and 
flies ; from these came the murrain among the cattle 


EXODUS 


414 


EXODUS 


and the bolls on men ; and so on- Most of the plagues, 
indeed, though of course in a much less aggravated 
form, and without such succession, are actually expe- 
rienced at this day in Egypt. Uf the plague of locusts 
it is expressly remarked that “before them were no 
such locusts, neither after them shall be such.” And 
all travellers in Egypt have observed swarms of lo- 
custs, brought generally bv a south-west wind (Denon, 
however, mentions their coming with an east wind), 
and in the winter or spring of the year. This last fact 
agrees also with our narrative. Le.psius speaks of be- 
ing in a “ regular snow-drift of locusts ,” which came 
from the desert in hundreds of thousands to the val- 
ley. “At the edge of the fruitful plain,” he sa} 7 s, 
“ they fell down in showers.” This continued for six 
davs, indeed in weaker flights much longer. He also 
saw hail in Egypt. In January, 1843, he and his party 


the tabernaele were too artificial, and the materials 
and richness too costly and precious for the condition 
and position of the Jews at that early period, etc. 
But the critics seem to have overlooked the fact that 
the Israelites of that period were a people who had 
come out from Egypt, a people possessing wealth, 
Egyptian culture and arts, which we admire even now, 
in the works which have descended to us from ancient 
Egypt; so that it cannot seem strange to see the' He- 
brews in possession of the materials or artistic knowl- 
edge requisite for the construction of the tabernacle. 
Moreover, the establishment of a tent as a sanctuary 
for the Hebrews can 011I3 7 be explained from their 
abode in the desert, being in perfect unison with their 
then roving and nomadic life ; and it is therefore a de- 
cided mistake in those critics who give to the saered 
tent a later date than the Mosaical ; while other critics 


were surprised by a storm. “Suddenly,” he writes, , (such as De Wette,Von Bohlen, Vatke) proceed much 


“the storm grew to a tremendous hurricane, such as 
I have never seen in Europe, and hail fell upon us in 
such masses as almost to turn day into night.” lie 
notices, too, an extraordinary cattle murrain “ which 
carried off 40,000 head of cattle” ( Letters from Egypt, 
Eng. trail si. p. 49, 27, 14). See Plagues (of Egypt). 


more consistently with their views by considering the 
narrative of the construction of a sacred tabernaele to 
be a mere fiction in Exodus, introduced for the pur- 
pose of ascribing to the Temple of Solomon a higher 
antiquity and authority. However, independently of 
the circumstance that the Temple necessarily presup- 


The institution of the Passover (ch. xii) has been 1 poses the existence of a far older analogous sanctuary, 
subjected to severe criticism. This lias also been call- the whole process of such a forced hypothesis is but 
ed a mythic fiction. The alleged circumstances are calculated to strike out a portion from the Jewish his- 
not historical, it is said, but arise out of a later attempt tory on purely arbitrary grounds. 


to explain the origin of the ceremony and to refer it to 
the time of Moses. The critics rest mainly on the dif- 
ference between the directions given for the observ- 
ance of this the first, and those given for subsequent 
passovers. But there is no reason why, considering 
the very remarkable circumstances under which it was 
instituted, the first Passover should not have had its 


The extremely simple and sober style and views 
throughout the whole narrative afford a sure guaran- 
tee for its authenticity and originality. Not a vestige 
of a poetical hand can be discovered in Exod. xviii ; 
not even the most sceptical critics can deny that we 
tread here on purely historical ground. The same 
mav fairlv be maintained of ch. xx-xxiii. How is it 


own peculiar solemnities, or why instructions should then possible that one and the same book should con- 
not then have been given for a somewhat different ob- tain so strange a mixture of truth and fiction as its op- 


servance for the future. See Passover 

In minor details the writer shows a remarkable ac- 
quaintance with Egypt. Thus, for instance, Pharaoh’s 
daughter goes to the river to bathe. At the present 
day, it is true that only women of the lower orders 
bathe in the river. But Herodotus (ii, 35) tells us 
(what we learn also from the monuments) that in an- 
cient Egypt the women were under no restraint, but 
apparently lived more in public than the men. To 


I ponents assert to be found in it? The most striking 
proofs against such an assumption are, in particular, 
the accounts, such as in Exod. xxxii sq, where the 
most vehement complaints are made against the Is- 
raelites, w here the high-priest of the covenant-people 
participates most shamefully in the idolatr}' of his 
p'eople. All these incidents are described in plain and 
clear terms, without the least vestige of later embel- 
lishments and false extolling of former ages. The 


this must be added that the Egyptians supposed a sov- Pentateuch, some critics assert, is written for the in- 
ereign virtue to exist in the Nile-waters. The writer terest and in favor of the hierarchy; but can there be 
speaks of chariots and “chosen chariots” (xiv, 7) as more anti-hierarchical details than are found in that 
constituting an important element in the Egyptian book ? The whole representation indicates the strict- 


army, and of the king as leading in person, a nu mon- 
uments amply confirm this representation. The Pha- 
raohs lead their armies to battle, and the armies con- 
sist entirely of infantry and chariots. See Chariot. 

As the events of this history are laid in Egypt and 
Arabia, we have ample opportunity of testing the ac- 
curacy of the Mosaical accounts, and surely we find no- 
where the least transgression against Egyptian insti- 
tutions and customs; on the contrary, it is most evi- 
dent that the author had a thorough knowledge of the 
Egyptian institutions and of the spirit that pervaded 


The mon- j est impartiality and truth. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. : 
Fairbairn, s. v. 

IV. The authorship and date of the book will be dis- 
cussed under Pentateuch. 

V. Commentaries , etc. — The following is a list of 
exegetieal helps on the whole book, the most impor- 
tant being designated by an asterisk (*) prefixed: Or- 
igen, Commentarii (in Opp. ii, 110) ; Selecta ( ib . ii, 121) ; 
also J/omilicc (ib. ii, 129); Ephraem Syrus, Ejplanaiio 
(in his Opp. iv, 194); Isidore, Commentaria (in his Opp .') ; 
Theodoret, Quccstiones (in his Opp. i, 1); Hugo a St. 


them. Exodus contains a mass of incidents and de- Victoire, Adnotationes (in his Opp. i) ; Aben-Esra, Com- 
tailed descriptions which have gained new 7 force from mentor. (Prague, 1840, 8vo); Bede, Expkmatio (in his 


the modern discoveries and researches in the field of 
Egyptian antiquities (comp. Hengstenberg, Die Ditcher 
Mods nnd yEgypten, Berlin, 1841). The description of 
the passage of the Israelites through the desert also 
evinces such a thorough familiaritv with the localities 


Opp. iv) ; Quccstiones (ib. viii) ; Bnpert, In Exod. (in his 
Opp. i, 150); Zuingle, Adnotationes (Tignrini, 1527); 
Brent, Commentatio (in his Opp. i); Ziegler, Commen- 
tarii (Basil. 1540, fol.); Phrvgio, Commentarivs (Tub. 
1543, 4to) ; Lippoman, Catena (Par. 1550; Leyd. 1G57, 


as to excite the utmost respect of scrupulous and sci- . fob); C by trams, Enarratimes (Vitemb. 155(1, 1563, 
entifio travellers of our own time for t lie authenticity 1579, 8vo); Galasius, Commentating (Gencv. 15G0, fob) ; 
of the Pentateuch (comp. ex. gr. Kaumer, Der Zug der j Strigel, Commentarius (Lips. 1566, 1572; Brem. 1585, 
Jsraditen aus y Egypt en nock Canaan , Lmpz. 1837). 8vo); Simler, Commentarius (Tigur. 1584, 1605, fob); 

The arrangements of the tabernaele, described in Ystellh, Commentaria (Bom. 1601, fob) ; Pererius, Dis- 
the second part of Exodus, likewise throw' a favorable pntationes (Ingolst. 4601, 4to); *Mechiltha, Commenta - 
light on the historical authenticity of the preceding rins (in Ugolini Thesaurus, xiv) ; Willet, Commentarie 
events; and the least tenable of all the objections (London, 1608, 1622, 2 vols. fob); Bung, Fradectiones 
against it are, that the architectural arrangements of j (Vitemb. 1614, 8vo) ; Babingtou, Xotes (in Works, p. 


EXOMOLOGESIS 


415 


EXORCISM, EXORCIST 


165) ; Reuter, Comnientarius (Francf. 1G16, 4to) ; *Ri- 
vetus, Commentarii (L. B. 1634, 4to) ; Jackson, Para- 
phrase (in Works, ix, 384); De la Have, Commentarii 
(Paris 1639, 1641, 2 vols. fol.) ; Lightfoot, Gleanings 
(Lond. 1643, 4to) ; Sylvius, Commentarius (Duac. 1644, 
4 to) ; Cartwright, Adnotationes (Lond. 1653, 8vo) ; Ca- 
lixtus, Exjjositio (Helinst. 1641, 1654, 4to) ; Cocceius, 
Observations (in liis Opp. i, 136); Hughes, Exposition 
(Lond. 1672, fol.); *Patriek, Commentary (Lond. 1697, 
4to) ; Hagemann, Betrachtungen (Brunsw. 1738, 4to) ; 
Torellius, Animadversions (Lips. 1746, 4to) ; Haitsma, 
Commentarii (Franc. 1771, 4to) ; Hopkins, Notes (Lon- 
don, 1784, 4to) ; 5 St.Cruce, Ilermeneia (Heidelb. 1787, 
4to) ; *lIorsley, Notes (in Bib. Criticism , i, 47) ; Cock- 
burn, Credibility , etc. (Lond. 1809, 8vo) ; *RosenmiilIer, 
Scholia (Lips. 1822, 8vo) ; Newnham, Illustrations 
(Lond. n. d. 8vo); Vizard, Commentary (London, 1838, 
12mo) ; Bnddicom, Exodus (2d ed. Liverp. 1839, 2 vols. 
12mo); Trower, Sermons (Lond. 1843, 8vo) ; Kitto, Il- 
lustration ( Daily Bible Illust. ii) ; *Bush, Notes (N. Y. 
1852, 2 vols. 12mo); Cumming, Readings (Lond. 1853, 
8vo) ; *lvalisch, Commentary (London, 1855, 8vo) ; Os- 
burn, Israel in Egypt (London, 1856, 12mo); *Knobel, 
ErJcliirung (Lpz. 1857, 8vo); Howard, Notes (Cambr. 
1857, 8vo); *Keil and Delitzsch, Comment, (from their 
Bibelwerk , Edinb. 1864, 8vo) ; * Lange, Comment, (in his 
Bibelwerk , ii, Lpz. 1864, 8vo) ; *Murphy, Comment. (Ed- 
inb. 1866, Andov. 1868, 8vo). See Old Testament. 

Exomologesis (i^opoXoytjmg, confession). The 
word was used in the ancient Church to denote not 
only confession in words, but also the various acts re- 
quired of penitents to give expression to sorrow for 
sin, and resolution of amendment. 

1. It is common with Romanist writers, when “they 
meet witli the word exomologesis in any of the aneient 
writers, to interpret it as private or auricular confession, 
such as is now practised in the communion of that 
Church, and imposed upon men as absolutely neces- 
sary to salvation. But they who, with greater judg- 
ment and ingenuity among themselves, have more nar- 
rowly considered the matter, make no scruple to con- 
fess that the exomolt)gesis of the ancients signifies a 
quite different thing, viz. the whole exercise of public 
penance, of which public confession was a noted part. 
The learned Albaspinaeus very strenuously sets him- 
self to refute this error in the writers of his own party. 
Cardinal Bellarmine, says he (05se?Tatf.lib.ii,cap.2G), 
and B.ironius, and Maldonat in his controversies, and 
Pamelius in his commentaries upon Tertullian and 
Cyprian, lay it down as a certain truth that the fa- 
thers generally take the word exomologesis for private 
and auricular confession ; but, having long and accu- 
rately considered all the places where it is mentioned, 
I cannot come in to their opinion. The fathers, adds 
he, always use this word when they would describe the 
external rites of penance, viz. weeping, and mourning, 
and self-accusation, and other the like tilings, which 
penitents usually practised'in the course of public pen- 
ance” (Bingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. xviii, ch. iii). 

2. So anxious was the primitive Church to preserve 
the voluntary character of penance, that it was deem- 
ed unlawful to exhort or invite any one to submit to 
this kind of discipline. It was required that the of- 
fenders should seek it as a favor, and should suppli- 
cate for admission among the penitents. The follow- 
ing are the duties or burdens imposed upon them. 
Penitents of the first three classes — the mourners 
( jlentes ), the hearers ( audientes ), the kneelers or pros- 
trators (genujlcctentes or substrati) — were never allow- 
ed to stand duiing public prayers, but were obliged to 
kneel. Open and public confession before the whole 
church was to be made with lamentations, tears, and 
other expressions of grief, and these were to be often 
repeated. All ornaments of dress were to be laid aside, 
and all expressions of joy or pleasure to be abandoned. 
Male penitents were required to cut their hair and 
shave their beard in token of sorrow, and females 


were to appear with their hair dishevelled, and wear* 
ing a veil. During the whole time of penance the 
candidates were required to abstain from bathing, feast- 
ing, and corporeal pleasures lawful at other times. 
They were forbidden to marry during this period of 
humiliation. In addition, they were obliged to be 
present at every religious ceremony, and to perform 
works of love and charity, particularly almsgiving. 
They were also expected to perform the office of the pa - 
rabolani in visiting and relieving the sick and burying 
the dead (Riddle, Christian Antiquities, bk. iv, ch. iv). 

3. The greater litanies are sometimes termed exomo- 
logeses , confessions ; because fasting, and weeping, and 
mourning, and confession of sins was usually joined 
with supplication to avert God’s wrath and reconcile 
him to a sinful people (Bingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. xiii, 
ch. i, § 11). 

Exorcism, Exorcist (t%opici<jTt}£, Acts xix, 13). 
I. In General. — The belief in daemonkcal possessions, 
which may be traced in almost every nation, has al- 
ways been attended by the professed ability, on the part 
of some individuals, to release the unhappy victims 
from their calamity. In Greece, men of no less dis- 
tinction than both Epicurus (Diog. Laertius, x, 4) and 
^Eschines were sons of women who lived by this art, 
and both were bitterly reproached, the one by the Sto- 
ics, and the other by his great rival orator Demosthe- 
nes (De Cor.), for having assisted their parents in these 
practices. In some instances this power was consider- 
ed as a divine gift ; in others it was thought to be ac- 
quired by investigations into the nature of daemons 
and the qualities of natural productions, as herbs, 
stones, etc., and of drugs compounded of them, by the 
use of certain forms of adjurations, invocations, cere- 
monies, and other observances. Indeed, the various 
forms of exorcism, alluded to in authors of all nations, 
are innumerable, varying from the bloody human sac- 
rifice down to the fumes of brimstone, etc. See Sor- 
cery. 

II. In the Old and New Testaments. — The verb t£op- 
occurs once in the New Testament and once in 
the Sept, version of the Old Testament. In both cases 
it is used, not in the sense of exorcise , but as a synonym 
of the simple verb bpri^to, to charge with an oath, to ad- 
jure. Compare Gen. xxiv, 3 A. Y. 11 1 will 

make thee swear”) with 37, and Matt, xxvi, 63 with 
Mark v, 7 ; and see 1 Thess. v, 27 (ivopri^to, Laclnnann, 
Tiseliendorf). The cognate noun, however, together 
with the simple verb, is found once (Acts xix, 13) with 
reference to the ejection of evil spirits from persons 
possessed by them (comp. t^opKuxric, bpicoio, Josephus, 
Ant. viii, 2, 5). The use of the term exorcists in that 
passage, as the designation of a well-known class of 
persons to which the individuals mentioned belonged, 
confirms what we know from other sources as to the 
common practice of exorcism amongst the Jews (see 
the Talm. Babyl. Yoma, fol. Ivii, 1). Th it some, at 
least, of them not only pretended to, but possessed tho 
power of exorcising, appears by our Lord’s admission 
when be asks the Pharisees, “ If I by Beelzebub east 
out devils, by whom do your disciples (vtoi) cast them 
out ?” (Matt, xii, 27). What means were employed by 
real exoreists we are not informed. David, by play- 
ing skilfully on a liarp, procured the temporary de- 
parture of the evil spirit which troubled Saul (1 Sam. 
xvi, 23). The power of expelling d lemons Josephus 
places among the endowments of Solomon, and relates 
that he l ft behind him tli3 manner of using exoreisms 
by which they drive away diemons (for the pretended 
fragments of these books, see Eabricius,CW. Pseud. Vet. 
Test. p. 1054). He declares that he had seen a man, 
named Eleazar, releasing people that were daimoniac- 
al, in the presence of Vespasian, his sons, captains, and 
the whole multitude of his soldiers, lie describes tho 
manner of euro thus: “ He put a ring that had a root 
of one of those sorts mentioned by Solomon to the nos- 


EXORCISM, EXORCIST 


41 

trils of the dromoniac ; after which he drew out the j 
daemon through his nostrils, and when the man fell 
down lie adjured him to return no more, making still 
mention of Solomon and reciting the incantations he 
composed." He further adds, that when Kleazar would 
persuade and demonstrate to the spectators that he had 
such a power, he set a cup or basin full of water a lit- 
tle way otT, and commanded the daemon as lie went 
out of the man to overturn it, and thereby to let the 
spectators know he had left the man (/I nt. viii, 2,5). 
He also describes the mode of obtaining the root baa- 
ras, which, he savs, “if it be only brought to sick per- 
sons, it quickly drives away the dromons,” under cir- 
cumstances which, for their strangeness, may vie with 
anv prescription in the whole science of exorcism 
(lITir, vii, C, 3). Among all the references to exor- 
cism, as practised by the Jews, in the New Testament 
(Matt, xii, 27 ; Mark ix, 38 ; Luke ix, 49, 50), we find 
only one instance which affords any clew to the means 
employed (Acts xix, 13); from which passage it ap- 
pears that certain professed exorcists took upon them 
to call over a dromoniac the name of the Lord Jestis, 
saying, “We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preach- 
eth.” Their proceeding seems to have been in con- 
formity with the well-known opinions of the Jews in 
those days, that miracles might be wrought by invok- 
ing the names of the Deity, or angels, or patriarchs, 
etc., as we learn from Justin Martyr, Irenrous, Origen, 
etc., and Lucian {Frag. p. 141). The epithet applied 
in the above text to these exorcists {TTtpiepxoptvot, 
Vulgate, circumeuntes Judcei ) indicates that they were 
travelling mountebanks, who. besides skill in med- 
icine, pretended to the knowledge of magic. Justin 
Martyr has an interesting suggestion as to the pos- 
sibility of a Jew successfully exorcising a devil, by 
emplo} T ing the name of the God of Abraham, Isaac, 
and Jacob {Dial, cum Tryph. c. 85, p. 311, C. See also 
Apol. II, c. G, p. 45, B, where he claims for Christianity 
superior but not necessarily exclusive power in this 
respect. Compare the statements of Irenrous, adv. 
Hares, ii, 5, and the authorities quoted by Grotius on 
Matt, xii, 27). But Justin goes on to say that the Jew- 
ish exorcists, as a class, had sunk down to the super- 
stitious rites and usages of the heathen (comp. Pliny, 
xxx, 2). See Daemon. 

The power of easting out devils was bestowed by 
Christ while on earth upon the apostles (Matt, x, 8), 
and the seventy disciples (Luke x, 17-19), and was, 
according to his promise (Mark xvi, 17), exercised by 
believers after his ascension (Acts xvi, 18) ; but to the 
Christian miracle, whether as performed by our Lord 
himself or by his followers, the N.-T. writers never 
apply the terms “exorcise’’ or “exorcist.” Nor is 
the office of the exorcist mentioned by Paul in his enu- 
meration of the miraculous gifts (1 Cor. xii, 9). Mos- 
heim savs that the particular order of exorcists did not 
exist till the close of the third century, and he ascribes 
its introduction to the prevalent fancies of the Gnos- 
tics (cent, iii, 11, c. 4). We notice Jahn’s remark upon 
the silence of John himself in his gospel on the sub- 
ject of possessions, although he introduces the Jews as 
speaking in the customary way respecting dromons 
and diemoniacal possessions, and although he often 
speaks of the sick who were healed by the Saviour; 
coupled with the fact that John wrote his gospel in 
Asia Minor, where medical science was very flourish- 
ing, and where it was generally known that the dis- 
eases attributed to dromons were merely natural dis- 
eases (Jahn, Arclmol. I, ii, 232, 477-480; see also Lo- 
meirus, Do Vet. Gent. Lustra.; Bekker, Le Monde cn- 
chante; Van Dale, De divined, idol. c. vi, p. 519 sq. ; 
Amnell, Diss. ad loc. in Actis, Upsal. 1758). — Ivitto, s. 
v. ; Smith, s. v. 

III. In the early Church. — 1. As Christians werd sup- 
posed to be in constant conflict with the devil, they used 
not only prayer, but also exorcism , which was held to be 
a power given to the Church. Thus Tertullian (A.D. 


6 EXORCISM, EXORCIST 

220), speaking of the warfare of the Christian soldie? 
{De Corona Milit. c. 11) with demons, says exorcismis 
fugavit (he routs them with exorcisms). So in his 
Apologeticus (c. 23) he says that the “ evil spirit will 
confess himself to he a demon when commanded to 
speak by any Christian” {jussus a cpiolibet Christiano). 
So also Origen, cont. Ctlsum , lib. vii, idtwrat to rotor- 
ror TrpaTTOvmv (the common unlettered people do the 
same). “ ‘Oh, could you hut hear,’ says Cyprian {Ep. 
7G), ‘and see those demons -when they are tortured by 
us, and afflicted with spiritual chastisement and veibal 
anguish, and thus ejected from the bodies of the pos- 
sessed {obsessorum\ moaning and lamenting with hu- 
man voice, through the power divine, as they feel the 
rods and stripes they confess the judgment to come. 
The exorcists rule with commanding right over the 
whole army of the insolent adversary. Oftentimes 
the devil promises to depart, but departs not; but 
w hen we come to baptism, then indeed we ought to be 
assured and confident, because the demon is then op- 
pressed, and the man is consecrated to God and liber- 
ated.’ The invocation of Christ, attended by the sign 
of the cross, and pronounced by persons formally ap- 
pointed to the office, was the method by which those 
stupendous effects were usually produced ; and one 
among the many evils which proceeded from this ab- 
surd practice was an opinion, which gained some prev- 
alence among the less enlightened converts, that the 
object of Christ's mission was to emancipate mankind 
from the yoke of their invisible enemy, and that the 
promised redemption was nothing more than a sensible 
liberation from the manifest influence of evil spirits” 
(Waddington, Church History , ch. xiii). The Apostol- 
ical Constitutions , viii, 26, says : “An exorcist is not 
appointed, for the prize pertaincth to voluntary good- 
ness and the grace of God, through Christ, by the in- 
fluence of the Hoi}' Spirit ; for he who hath received 
the gift of healing is declared by revelation from God, 
the grace that is in him being manifest unto all. I3nt 
if there be need of him for a bishop, or presbyter, or 
deacon, he is appointed accordingly.” Thus it ap- 
pears (1) that the power of casting out devils was held 
to exist in the Church ; (2) that as late as the third 
century it was not held to belong exclusively to the 
clerg}', but to the whole Church, or at least to some 
among the laity. The use of exorcism seems to have 
been at first confined to the ease of persons “possessed 
with devils,” tvtpyovjutvoi, who were given into the 
care of persons set apart for the purpose (Cyprian, 
Epist. 75, 7G). See Energumexs. But Cyprian also 
speaks here of baptismal exorcism (see below). 

2. Exorcists . — A special order of exorcists arose as 
early as the third century. Before that time, al- 
though, as has been seen, the power of exorcising was 
held to be a spiritual gift common to all classes in the 
Church, it yet appears to have been chiefly exercised 
by the clergy. On the date of the rise of the order of 
exorcists, and of their ordination and office, Bingham 
{Orig. Eccles. bk. iii, ch. iv) speaks as follows : “ I take 
Bonn’s opinion to be the truest, that it came in upon 
the withdrawing {Renm Liturg. lib. i, c. xxv, note. 
17) of that extraordinary and miraculous power, which 
probably was by degrees, and not at the same time in 
all places. Cornelius {ap. Euseb. lib. vi, c. xliii), who 
lived in the third century, reckons exorcists among 
the inferior orders of the Church of Rome ; yet the au- 
thor of the Constitutions, who lived after him, says it 
was no certain order {Constit. A post. lib. viii, e. xxvi), 
but God bestowed the gift of exorcising as a free grace 
upon whom he pleased ; and therefore, consonant to 
that hypothesis, there is no rule among those Consti- 
tutions for giving any ordination to exorcists, as being 
appointed by God onl}', and not by the Church. But 
the credit of the Constitutions is not to be relied upon 
in this matter ; for it is certain by this time exorcists 
were settled as an order in most parts of the Greek 
Church, as well as the Latin; which is evident from 


EXORCISM, EXORCIST 417 EXORCISM, EXORCIST 


the Council of Antioch, A.D. 341, in one of whose can- 
ons {Cone. Antioch, c. x) leave is given to the chor- 
episcopi to promote subdeacons, readers, and exorcists, 
which argues that those were then all standing orders 
of the Church. After this exorcists are frequently 
mentioned among the inferior orders by the writers of 
the fourth century, as in the Council of Laodicea 
{Cone. Laodic. c. xxiv and xxvi), Epiphanius {Expos. 
Fid. note 21), Paulinus {Natal, iv, S. Felicis .), Sulpicius 
Severus ( Vit. S. Martin, c. v), and the Rescripts of The- 
odosius {Cod. Theodos. lib. xii, tit. i, De Dccurione Leg. 
121), and Gratian {id. ib. lib. xvi, tit. 5i, De Episc. Leg. 
21) in the Theodosian Code, where those emperors 
grant them the same immunities from civil offices as 
the)'- do to the other orders of the clergy. Their or- 
dination and office is thus described b} T the fourth 
Council of Carthage {Cone. Carth. iv, c. vii : Exorcista 
quuin ordinatur, accipiat de manu episcopi li bell uni, 
in quo scripti sunt exorcismi, dicente sibi episcopo: 
Accipe et commenda memoriae, et habeto potestatem 
imponendi mantis super energumenmn, sive baptiza- 
tum, sive eatechumenuni) : “When an exorcist is or- 
dained, he shall receive at the hands of the bishop a 
book, wherein the forms of exorcising are written, the 
bishop saying, Receive thou these and commit them to 
memory, and have thou power to lay hands upon the 
energumens, whether they be baptized or only cate- 
chumens.” These forms were certain prayers, togeth- 
er with adjurations in the name of Christ, commanding 
the unclean spirit to depart out of the possessed per- 
son, which may be collected from the words of Pauli- 
nus concerning the promotion of St. Felix to this of- 
fice, where he says {Natal, iv, S. Felicis. : Primis lector 
servivit in annis, inde gradum cepit, cui muiius voce 
fideli adjurare malos, et sacris pellere verbis), from a 
reader he arose to that degree whose office was to ad- 
jure evil spirits, and to drive them out by certain holy 
words. It doss not appear that they were ordained to 
this office by any imposition of hands either in the 
Greek or Latin Church ; but yet no one might pretend 
to exercise it either publicly or privately, in the church 
or in any house, without the appointment of the bish- 
op, as the Council of Laodicea directs {Cone. Laod. c. 
xxvi) ; or at least the license of a ehorejnscopus , who 
in that case was authorized {Condi. Antiochen. cap. x) 
by the bishop’s deputation.” 

3. Exorcism in Baptism. — In the third century (at 
least after the Council of Carthage, A.D. 250) we find 
exorcism used in the catechumenate in preparation for 
baptism, and also as part of the ordinary ceremony of 
baptism. Riddle {Christian Antiquities , bk. iv, cli. ii) 
gives the following view of its origin: “ Baptism, as 
the sacrament of the Holy Ghost, contributes to de- 
liver men from the power of Satan and evil spirits; 
and hence it appears expedient and right at the recep- 
tion of that rite to renounce the devil and his works. 
And when the number of candidates for baptism was 
multiplied from among the heathen, who are spoken 
of in Scripture as in a peculiar sense sinners (Gal. ii, 
15), and who were regarded as being especially under 
the power of the prince of darkness, it seemed more 
particularly needful that admission into the Gospel 
Church — the kingdom of heaven — should be preceded 
by a formal abjuration of all heathen and superstitions 
practices or worship ; in one word, by a renunciation 
of Satan. Such appears to be the most natural and 
simple account of the origin of exorcism at baptism in 
the Christian Church. Justin Martyr, the first unin- 
spired writer who describes Christian baptism, knew 
nothing of this practice, although he was not unac- 
quainted with the custom of exorcising evil spirits in 
the case of persons possessed. Tertullian, however, 
treats expressly of this matter, and says that the prac- 
tice of renouncing the devil on occasion of baptism is 
founded not on Scripture, but on tradition {De Corona 
Mil. c. iii). Cyprian also treats of baptismal exorcism 
(Ep. Ixxvi, ad Magn.'). At first, indeed, this ceremo- 
III.— D D 


ny was confined to a renunciation of ‘ the devil a nd 
all his works’ on the part of the person about to be 
baptized ; and it was not until the fourth century that 
a form of abjuration hy the officiating minister , com- 
manding the evil spirit to depart from the new servant 
of Christ, was brought into use. And hence it is that 
some writers, making a distinction between the renun- 
ciation {enzorayi], abronuntiatio) and exorcism (t£ op- 
KitrpoQX contend that the practice of exorcism was al- 
together unknown until the fourth, or, as others say, 
the seventh century. The fact, however, appears to 
be, that these customs are substantially one and the 
same, differing only in form. And the true state of 
the case with respect to baptismal exorcism appears 
to be as follows: 1. In the first century we find no 
trace of a renunciation of the devil in baptism. 2. In 
the second and third centuries this practice was in use, 
as appears from the testimonies of Tertullian and Cyp- 
rian, as well as of later writers who appeal to tradition. 
3. In the fourth century the fathers speak of exorcism 
as not being highly expedient, inasmuch as, without 
it, children would not be free from the influence of evil 
spirits (Optat. Milev. De Schism. Donat, lib. iv, e. vi ; 
Basil. ]\l. De Spiritu Sancto , e. xxvii ; Gregor. Naz. 
Oral. xl). Wo find mention of baptismal exorcism 
also in the canons of the Council of Carthage held in 
the year 256, and those of the first Council of Constan- 
tinople, A.D. 381. The exorcists, who were concern- 
ed at first only with the energumens, or persons pos- 
sessed, were afterwards called upon to assist at the 
baptism of all adults ; but, as infant baptism gained 
ground, the duties of this office became superfluous, 
and they are very rarely mentioned in works posterior 
to the sixth century.” 

Cyril of Jerusalem (f 38C) gives a somewhat detail- 
ed account of the form of exorcism. The ceremonies 
used were: 1. Preliminary fasting, prayers, and gen- 
uflections. These, however, may be regarded as gen- 
eral preliminaries to baptism. 2. Imposition of hands 
upon the head of the candidate, who stood with his 
head bowed down in a submissive posture. 3. Putting 
off the shoes and clothing, with the exception of an 
under garment. 4. Facing the candidate to the west, 
which was the symbol of darkness, as the east was of 
light. In the Eastern Church he was required to 
thrust out his hand towards the west, as if in the act 
of pushing away an object in that direction. This 
was a token of his abhorrence of Satan and his works, 
and his determination to resist and repel them. 5. A 
renunciation of Satan and his works thus : ‘ I renounce 
Satan and his works, and his pomps and his services, 
and all tilings that are his.’ This or a similar form 
was thrice repeated. G. The exorcist then breathed 
upon the candidate either once or three times, and ad- 
jured the unclean spirit in the name of the Father, 
Son, and IIolv Ghost, to come out of him. This form 
of adjuration seems not to have been in use until the 
fourth century; and these several formalities were 
apparently introduced gradually and at different times. 
The whole ceremony was at first confined to the re- 
nunciation of 1 the devil and his works’ on the part of 
the person about to be baptized (Coleman, Christian 
Antiquities, eh. xiv, § 9; Riddle, /. c.). 

1 Y. Roman Catholic Church. — In the Roman Catholic 
Church exorcists constitute one of the four minor or- 
ders of the clergy — acolytes, exorcists, readers, por- 
ters {Council of Trent , sess. xxiii, chap, ii, of Orders). 
When initiating the exorcist the bishop gives him a 
book containing the exorcisms (or the Missal), and 
savs, u Accipe et commenda memorise, et habeto potesta- 
tem imponendi maims super energumenum , sive bapti- 
zatum sive eatechumenuni*' (Take this and commit it to 
memory, and have power to impose hands on persons 
possessed, be they baptized or catechumens). Every 
candidate for priests’ orders in the Roman Church first 
receives the four lower orders, including that of exor- 
cist. The process of exorcising water for baptism is 


EXORCISM, EXORCIST 


413 


EXORCISM, EXORCIST 


given under Baptism (vol. i, p. 050, eol. 2). Children 
are regarded as belonging to the devil until baptized, 
and the priest or assisting exorcist blows out the evil 
spirit bv the breath ( cxsujflcition ), and also breathes on 
the child again (insu[Jhition\ as a symbol of the gift 
of the Spirit. So the Hituale : “ Sacerdos exsuiflat ter 
in facieni catechnmeni, semel dicens : Exi ab eo (ea), 
spiritus immundc, et da locum Spiritui Sancto Para- 
clito. Hie in modum erucis halet in faciem ipsius di- 
cat ; Aceipe Spiritual boumn per istam insufflationem, 
et Dei bcnedictionem. f Pax tibi.” In cases where 
the priest is to practise exorcism on a person supposed 
to be “possessed of the devil,” he is to prepare himself 
specially by prayer, fasting, confession, and mass. 
The ceremony may be performed in the church, or, if 
the sufferer be ill, at his house ; but there must always 
be witnesses present. “Here, arrayed in robe, cope, 
and a blue stole, he first sprinkles the subject with 
holy water, and, kneeling down, prays the All Saints’ 
litany, the Lord's prayer, and Psahn liii, Dcus in nom- 
ine tuo (in onr version Psalm liv) ; then two prayers in 
which, making the sign of the cross over the patient, 
he commands the evil spirit to depart, by the myste- 
ries of the incarnation, the suffering and death, the 
resurrection and ascension of Christ, the sending of 
the Spirit, and the coming again to judgment. There- 
upon follows the lesson from John i, In principio erat 
Vcrbinn, with Mark xvi, 15-18, and Luke x, 17-10. 
Then he lays both hands upon the head of the cnergu- 
nien, saying, 1 Ecce erucem Domini: fugite partes ad- 
verse : vicit leo de tribu Juda and the prayer follows, 
with the proper formula of exorcism ( Exorcizo te, im- 
munde spiritus, etc.) : ‘ I exorcise thee, unclean spirit, 
in the name of Jesus Christ ; tremble, O Satan ! thou 
enemy of the faith, thou foe of mankind, who hast 
brought death into the world, who hast deprived men 
of life, and hast rebelled against justice ; thou seducer 
of mankind, thou root of all evil, thou source of ava- 
rice, discord, and envy’), the priest meanwhile making 
three crosses, in the name of the Trinity, on the brow 
and breast of the possessed person. If the evil spirit 
does not depart, all these ceremonies must be repeat- 
ed. In regard to the exorcism of things , the view of 
St. Paul, that every creature of God, used with thanks- 
giving, is good, stands true at all times. But in con- 
sequence of the curse, which the first sin brought upon 
all nature, the Church of Rome exorcises beforehand 
things designed for saered use, such as the water and 
salt required for holy water. Beasts also, horses, 
fields, and fruits, are so treated, more frequently in the 
Greek Church than in the Roman” (Herzog, Encyclo- 
pedia, Bombarger’s transl., i, 255). AY hen a house is 
infested with evil spirits the priest is sent for, who, on 
his arrival, sprinkles the place plentifully with holy 
water, repeats some prayers, and then pronounces the 
form of exorcism, whereupon, it is supposed, the dev- 
ils depart. Should they again return the ceremony 
of exorcism is repeated, and again if necessary, until 
at length the Church proves itself victorious over the 
powers of hell ( Encycl . Metropolitana ; see also Jeremy 
Taylor, Dissuasive from Popery, § 0, for an account of 
the forms of exorcism ; and the copious collection enti- 
tled Thesaurus exorcismorum atque coujurationum ter - 
ribilium , potentissimoruin, eficacissim arum nan practica 
probatissima : quibus spiritus maligrit , dumones malefi - 
ciaqne omnia de corporibus humanis obsessis, tanquam 
fagellis fustibusque fugantur, cxpelluntur, doetrinis re - 
fertissimus atque ubernmus , Coloniaj, 1G28, 8vo). 

V. The Greek Church also continues the order of 
exorcists and the practice of exorcism. The exorcism 
of catechumens is designated c 'upopKifTfiog , and it is 
thrice administered in making a catechumen (see Eu- 
chologion, cap. tv\t) tig to Troiqoai KaT?]xovptvoi>). 
Exorcism is also practised upon the baptism of infants. 
The priest, having received the child at Hie church 
door, marks him with the sign of the cross on the fore- 
head, then carries him to the font, where, before his 


immersion, he is exorcised. The ancient forms are 
preserved with very little change in modern use. 
Three forms are employed, which may he found in 
Schmitt, Jlorgenland.-griech-russische Kirehe (Mainz, 
1826, p. 141). In Assenianni, Codex Liturg. ii, 318 sq., 
may be found twenty-one forms for exorcising the 
devil and all evil spirits. In Metrophanis Critopuli 
Confessio (1601), cap. vii, de Ecclesia, is the statement 
that baptism must be performed with prayers and ex- 
orcisms (ptrtt tv\tx>v Kai t^ooKiopunl) ; also (tyo/.<6P ce 
i^opKiopovg TTcipu tiov dp\aion> 7 rartpow Gavpacriiog 
avvTtOtipivovg) “we have forms of exorcism admira- 
bly prepared by the ancient fathers and in cap. xi, de 
Sacerdotio, he states the duty of the exorcists to be “to 
exorcise the catechumens and catechize them” (sea 
Kimmel, Monum. Fid . Eccles. Orient. (Jena, 1840, 8vo). 

VI. In Protestant Churches. — Luther approved of 
exorcism. In his Taufbuchlcin he preserved the spirit 
of the Roman Catholic form of renunciation of the 
devil. He did not consider it as essential, but as very- 
useful to “ remind the people earnestly of the power 
of sin and the devil.” The im mediate successors of 
Luther adopted his views, and they were generally 
diffused in Saxony, Wurtem berg, and the other strong- 
ly Lutheran parts of Germany (Siegel, A Iterthumer, ii, 
64; AViedenfeld, De Exorcismi Origine, etc., Marburg, 
1824). In 1583 Heshusins wrote in favor of abolishing 
its use. Justus Menius, in a treatise Vom Exoreismo , 
1500, advocated its retention. Calvin (lnstit. iv, 12, 
19), speaking of the “wax taper” and “exorcism’’ as 
used by the Romanists in baptism, says, “ I am not 
ignorant of the ancient origin of this adventitious med- 
ley, yet it is lawful for me, and for all the faithful, to 
reject everything that men have presumed to add to 
the institution of Christ.” In the Swedish Church, 
when the Augsburg Confession was proclaimed anew 
at the Council of Upsala, 1503, exorcism was retained, 
in its milder expressions, “ as a free ceremony, on ac- 
count of its utility as an admonition to the audience 
looking on at the baptism” (Ranke, History of the Pa- 
pacy, i, 11, Austin’s transl., Edinb. 1851, 2 vols. 8vo). 

! Zuinglius agreed with Calvin in rejecting exorcism, 
and from the beginning the Reformed Church was 
I disinclined to it. The question became a sort of lest 
! between Lutherans and Calvinists. In the Crypto- 
Calvinistic struggles the question of exorcism played 
a part, and one of the accusations against Nicolas Crell 
(q. v.) was that he “sought to extirpate exorcism from 
the Church, to its great injury (see Boehmer, Jus. Eccl. 
Protest, iii, 843). Among later Lutheran theologians, 
Gerliardt,Quenstedt, and Ilollaz place it among tilings 
! indifferent; Baur, Baumgarten, and Reinliard urge its 
abolition. From Reinhard’s time it has gradual iy be- 
| come obsolete in the Lutheran Church. Since 1822 
the “High” Lutherans have attempted to revive its 
use. 

In the Church of England. — In the first liturgy of 
Edward VI, a form of exorcism at baptism is given. 
The priest, looking upon the children, was to say, “ I 
command thee, unclean spirit, in the name of the Fa- 
ther, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, that thou come out 
and depart from these infants, whom our Lord Jesus 
Christ has vouchsafed to call to his holy baptism, to l a 
made members of his body and of his holy congrega- 
tion. Therefore, thou accursed spirit, remember thy 
sentence, remember thy judgment, remember the day 
to be at hand wherein thou shalt burn in fire everlast- 
ing, prepared for thee and thy angels ; and presume 
not henceforth to exercise any tyranny towards these 
infants whom Christ hath bought with his precious 
blood, and, hv his holy baptism, calleth to lie of his 
flock.” See Baptism. Bucer's remonstrance against 
the indiscriminate use of the form of exorcism, on the 
ground that it would be uncharitable to suppose that 
all were da?moniacs who came to he baptized, was list- 
ened to by the Reformers ; for in their revision of the 
Praycr-bool; t in the 5th and 6th of Edward VI, they de- 


EXORDIUM 


419 


EXPERIENCE 


cidecl on omitting it altogether. The seventy-second 
canon of the Church of England forbids any minister 
attempting to expel a devil or devils, under pain of 
the imputation of imposture, and cosenage, and depo- 
sition from the ministry, except he tirst obtains the 
license of the bishop of his diocese, had under his hand 
and seal (Wheatly, On Common Prayer , chap, vii, § 2). 
In the form of baptism used in the Church of England, 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, and the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, the question is put to the candidate, 
44 Dost thou renounce the devil and all his works?” 
etc. This is a remnant of the old form of renuncia- 
tion (connected with the exorcism at the baptism of 
catechumens), but of exorcism itself there is nothing 
in their formularies. 

Literature. — See, besides the works already cited, 
Suicer, Thesaurus , s .v. (KfiopiuopoQ, t£opiciVf.w(;; Stolle, 
De Origine Exorcismi in Raptismo ; Augusti, Denkwur- 
digkeiten , vii, 2G8 sq. ; Bingham, Grip. Ecrles . , Bohn’s 
ed., i, 435 ; ii, 110 sq. ; Augusti, Christl. A rchteologie , ii, 
427 sq. ; iii, 402; Ferraris, Promta Bibliotheca , iii, 927 
sq. ; Kraft, Ansfuhrl. Hist, von Exorcismo (Hamburg, 
1750, Svo) ; Elliott, Delineation of Romanism , bk. ii, ch. 
xv ; Procter, On Common Prayer , p. 305. 

Exordium. See Homiletics; Sermon. 

Expectancy (Lat. expectantia , expectiva , gratia 
expectiva ), in canon law, the name of a prospective 
claim to an ecclesiastical benefice which has not yet 
become vacant. At first the German emperors grant- 
ed expectancies for the first place in every chapter 
that became vacant after their accession to the throne 
(jus primce precis'). After the eleventh century the 
popes granted expectancies at first in the shape of a 
request, and subsequently in the shape of an order. 
The expectancy was either for a definite benefice, or 
for any benefice of a certain class or chapter. The 
third Council of Lateran (1179), and later papal re- 
scripts, forbade the expectancies, but the popes them- 
selves continued to grant them. They were again 
restricted by the Council of Constance, and forbidden 
by the Council of Basel. The Council of Trent total- 
ly abolished them, except in cases of bishops and mo- 
nastic superiors, to whom, in some specified cases, a 
coadjutor, with the right of succession, was given. In 
the Protestant state churches the princes have claimed 
the right to grant expectancies. — Allgem. Real-Encykl. 
i, 622 ; Herzog, Real-Encykl. iv, 292. (A. J. S.) 

Expectation Week, the time between Ascen- 
sion Day and Whitsunday, the period during which 
the apostles tarried at Jerusalem in expectation of the 
fulfilment of the Master’s promise as to the outpouring 
of the Comforter. — Procter, On Common Prayer , p. 289. 

Expediency, fitness of means to ends. On ex- 
pediency as the ground of morals, see Dwight, Theolo- 
gy , ser. xeix; Bobert Hall, Complete Works , i, 96; ii, 
295 ; Lit. and TJieol. Review , iv, 388 ; Wayland, in Bib- 
liotheca Sacra , 1843, p. 301 ; and the article Ethics. 

Experience (doieipi), Rom. v, 4, “ proof,” as else- 
where rendered), approval of integrity as the result of 
trial. 4 “ The three stages of viropovi), endurance , co- 
approval , and tXa-t'c, hope , are considered by the 
apostle as proceeding from the sufferings ; the first de- 
noting the state of moral earnestness implied in pa- 
tient and faithful endurance, the second that state of 
approval as genuine which thence results, and bears 
within it hope as its blossom” (Olshausen, Comment. 
in loe.). 

EXPERIENCE. T. Tn Philosophy. — 44 Experience , 
in its strict sense, applies to what has occurred within 
a person’s own knowledge. Experience , in this sense, 
of course relates to the past alone. Thus it is that a 
man knows by experience what sufferings he has un- 
dergone in some disease, or what height the tide 
reached at a certain time and place. More frequently 
the word is used to denote that judgment which is de- 


rived from experience in the primary sense , by reasoning 
from that in combination with other data. Thus a 
man may assert, on the ground of experience, that he 
was cured of a disorder by such a medicine — that that 
medicine is generally beneficial in that disorder ; that 
the tide may always be expected, under such circum- 
stances, to rise to such a height. Strictly speaking, 
none of these can be known by experience , but are con- 
clusions from experience. It is in this sense only that 
experience can be applied to the future, or, which comes 
to the same thing, to any general fact ; as, e. g. when 
it is said that we know by experience that water ex- 
posed to a certain temperature will freeze” (Whately, 
Logic , app. i). 

Locke ( Essay on Human Understand, bk. ii, ch. i) as- 
signs expedience as the only and universal source of 
human knowledge. 44 Whence hath the mind all the 
materials of reason and knowledge? To this I an- 
swer, in one word, from experience ; in that all our 
knowledge is founded, and from that ultimately de- 
rives itself. Our observation, employed either about 
external sensible objects, or about the internal opera- 
tions of our minds, perceived and reflected on by our- 
selves, is that which supplies our understanding with 
all the materials of thinking. These are the fountains 
of knowledge from whence all the ideas we have, or 
can naturally have, do spring — that is, sensation and 
reflection.” In opposition to this view, according to 
which all human knowledge is a posteriori , or the re- 
sult of experience, it is contended that man has knowl- 
edge a priori — knowledge which experience neither 
does nor can give, and knowledge without which there 
could be no experience, inasmuch as all the generali- 
zations of experience proceed and rest upon it. “No 
accumulation of experiments whatever can bring a 
general law home to the mind of man, because, if we 
rest upon experiments, our conclusion can never logic- 
ally pass beyond the bounds of our premises ; we can 
never infer more than we have proved; and all the 
past, which we have not seen, and the future, which we 
cannot see, is still left open, in which new experiences 
may arise to overturn the present theory. And yet 
the child will believe at once upon a single experi- 
ment, as having been once burned by fire. Why? 
Because a hand divine has implanted in him the ten- 
dency to generalize thus rapidly. Because lie does it 
by an instinct of which he can give no account, except 
that he is so formed by his Maker” (Sewell, Christian 
Mor . ch. xxiv). “We may have seen one circle and 
investigated its properties, hut why, when our individ- 
ual experience is so circumscribed, do we assume the 
same relations of all ? Simply because the under- 
standing has the conviction intuitively that similar 
objects will have similar properties ; it docs not ac- 
quire this idea by sensation or custom ; the mind de- 
velops it by its own intrinsic force — it is a law of our 
faculties, ultimate and universal, from which all rea- 
soning proceeds” (Dr. Mill, Essays, p. 337). — Fleming, 
Vocabulary of Philosophy , s. v. 

II. In Religion. — (1.) Knowledge gained by trial or 
practice. 44 A man unacquainted with those spiritual 
changes in the mind which are mentioned in the Scrip- 
ture can form no notion of them, lie may have some 
idea of the possibility of the changes called the new 
birth, sanctification, etc., but he does not understand 
their nature; they are foolishness to him. Nothing 
is more common with unregenerate persons than to 
ridicule as enthusiastic religious experience. But if 
the constitution of human nature is considered, it will 
be seen that man has emotions as well as intellect. 
Ilis passions are original parts of his mental constitu- 
tion, and must be exercised in religion. They cannot 
be destroyed. However beautiful religion may be as 
a theory, its excellency and energy can only be dis- 
played as experienced. Hence the Bible employs the 
analogous terms tasting, feeling, to indicate the inter- 
nal enjoyment of a Christian. He has peace through 


EXPERIENCE MEETINGS 


420 


EXPIATION 


believing. He joys in God, through whom he has re- 
ceived the atonement. The love of God is shed abroad 
in Ills heart. He is conscious that he is a new crea- 
ture” (Farrar, Bill. Did. s. v.). “That our experi- 
ence is always absolutely pure in the present state 
cannot he expected; but ’if it be genuine, it will not 
fil’d, through the exercise of Christian diligence, to be- 
come more and more pure. The main point, there- 
fore, is to guard well against mistaking the illusions 
of the imagination for the operation of divine truth 
on the conscience and the heart (1 Thess. ii, 13). See 
Affections. (2.) The most valuable things are most 
apt to be counterfeited. But Christian experience 
may be considered as genuine, 1. When it accords with 
the’ revelation of God’s mind and will, or what he has 
revealed in his word. Anything contrary to this, 
however pleasing, cannot be sound, or produced by 
divine agency. 2. When its tendency is to promote 
humility in us : that experience by which we learn 
our own weakness, and to subdue pride, must be good. 
3. When it teaches us to bear with others, and to do 
them good. 4. When it operates so as to excite us to 
be ardent in our devotion, and sincere in our regard 
to God. A powerful experience of the divine favor 
will lead us to acknowledge the same, and to manifest 
our gratitude both by constant praise and genuine 
piety, (3.) Christian experience, however, may be 
abused. There are some good people who certainly 
have felt and enjoyed the power of religion, and yet 
have not always acted with prudence as to their expe- 
rience. 1. Some boast of their experiences, or talk of 
them as if they were very extraordinary : whereas, 
were they acquainted with others, they would find it 
not so. That a man may make mention of his expe- 
rience is no way improper, but often useful ; but to 
hear persons always talking of themselves seems to 
indicate a spirit of pride, and that their experience 
cannot be very deep. 2. Another abuse of experience 
is dependence on it. We ought certainly to take en- 
couragement from past circumstances if we can ; but 
if we are so dependent on past experience as to pre- 
clude present exertions, or always expect to have ex- 
actly the same assistance in every state, trial, or ordi- 
nance, we shall be disappointed. God has wisely or- 
dered it that, though he never will leave his people, 
yet he will suspend or bestow comfort in his own time; 
for this very reason, that we may rely on him, and not 
on the circumstance or ordinance. 3. It is an abuse 
of experience when introduced at improper times and 
before improper persons. It is true, we ought never 
to be ashamed of our profesion ; hut to be always talk- 
ing to irreligious people respecting experience, which 
they know nothing of, is, as onr Saviour says, casting 
pearls before swine” (Buck, Theol. Diet . s. v.). — Buck, 
Treatise on Experience; Gurnnll, Christian Armor; 
Edwards, On the Affections; Doddridge, Rise andProg- 
ress ; Wesley, Sermons. 

EXPERIENCE, Hume’s argument from. See 
IIume; Mikacle. 

Experience Meetings arc assemblies of relig- 
ions persons, who meet for the purpose of relating 
their experience to each other. They arc sometimes 
called covenant and conference meetings, and, in the 
Methodist Church, class-meetings (q. v.). u It has been 
doubted by some whether these meetings are of any 
great utility, and whether they do not, in some meas- 
ure, force people to say more than is true, and puli' up 
those with pride who are able to communicate their 
ideas with facility ; but to this it has been answered, 
1. That the abuse of a thing is no proof of the evil of 
it. 2. That the most eminent saints of old did not neg- 
lect this practice (Psa. lvi, 16; jMal. iii, 10). 3. That 

by a wise and prudent relation of experience the Chris- 
tian is led to see that others have participated of the 
same joys and sorrows with himself ; he is excited to 
love and serve God ; and animated to perseverance in 


duty by finding that others, of like passions with him* 
self, are zealous, active, and diligent. 4. That the 
Scriptures seem to enjoin the frequent intercourse of 
Christians for the purpose of strengthening each other 
in religious services (Heb. x, 24,25 ; Col. iii, 1G ; Matt, 
xviii, 20)” (Buck, Theol. Dictionary, s. v.). See Class- 
meetings. 

Expiation, Jewish Day of Annual (Lev. xvi, 
1-34: comp, xxiii, 3G, 39; Numb, xxix, 7-11), a sol- 
emn fast (Acts xxvii, 9 ; Philo, Opp. ii, 20G, 296, 591; 
Josephus, Ant. xiv, 1G, 4) and holy day Cpirr:: 

Lev. xvi, 31 ; xxiii, 32), held from the evening of the 
9th till that of the 10th day of the 5tli month, Tisri, 
five days before the feast of Tabernacles. The mod- 
ern Mohammedan fast called “Ramadan,” held during 
an entire (lunar) month, has sometimes been referred 
to as having its analogies; likewise the fast of Isis 
among the ancient Egyptians (Herod, iv, 18G; comp, 
ii, 40), and the Hindu fast-day “ Sandrajonon,” etc. 

1 See Fast. 

EXPIATION, “a religious act, by which satisfac- 
tion or atonement is made for the commission of some 
crime, the guilt done away, and the obligation to pun- 
ishment cancelled. The chief methods of expiation 
j among the Jews were by sacrifices; and it is impor- 
tant always to recollect that the Levitical sacrifices 
were of an expiatory character; because as among the 
Jews sacrifices were unquestionably of divine original, 
and as the terms taken fiom them are found applied 
so frequently to Christ and to his sufferings in the 
New Testament, they serve to explain that peculiarity 
under which the apostles regarded the death of Christ, 
and afford additional proof that it was considered by 
them as a sacrifice of expiation, as the grand universal 
sin-offering for the whole world. For our Lord is an-* 
nounced by John as ‘the Lamb of God and that not 
with reference to meekness or any other moral virtue, 
but with an accompanying phrase, which would com- 
municate to a Jew the full sacrificial sense of the term 
employed, ‘the Lamb of God. which taketli away the 
sin of the world.’ lie is called ‘our Passover, sac- 
rificed for us.’ He is said to have given ‘himself for 
us, an offering and a sacrifice to God, for a sweet-smell- 
ing savor.’ As a priest, it was necessary ‘he should 
have somewhat to offer ;’ and he offered * himself,’ ‘ his 
own blood,’ to which is ascribed the Masliing umtiv of 
sin, and our eternal redemption. He is declared to 
have ‘ put aM’ay sin by the sacrifice of himself,’ to have 
‘by himself purged our sins,’ to have ‘sanctified the 
people by his own blood,’ to have/ offered to God one 
sacrifice for sins.’ Add to these, and to innumerable 
other similar expressions and allusions, the argument 
of the apostle in the Epistle to the HebreM’S, in Mliich, 
bv proving at length that the sacrifice of Christ M’as 
superior in efficacy to the sacrifices of the law, lie most 
unequivocally assumes that the death of Christ Mas a 
sacrifice and sin-offering; for without that it Mould no 
more have been capable of comparison ndth the sacri- 
fices of the law, than the deatli of John the Baptist, St. 

1 Stephen, or St. James, all martyrs and sufferers for 
! the truth, Mho had recently sealed their testimony 
with their blood. This very comparison, M’e may af- 
J firm, is utterly unaccountable and absurd on any hy^ 
pothesis which denies the sacrifice of Christ; for what 
relation could his deatli have to the Levitical immola- 
tions and offerings if it had no sacrificial character? 
Nothing could, in fact, be more misleading, and even 
absurd, than to apply those terms ndiich, both among 
Jen's and Gentiles, M ere in use to express the various 
processes and means of atonement and piacular pro pi - 
' tint ion, if the apostles and Christ himself did not in- 
tend to represent his death strictly as an expiation for 
■ sin — misleading, because such would be the natural 
! and necessary inference from the terms themselves, 
which had acquired this as their established meaning; 

I and absurd, because if, as Socinians say, they used them 


EXPIATION 


421 


EXPIATION 


metaphorically, there was not even an ideal resem- 
blance between the figure and that which it was in- 
tended to illustrate. So totally irrelevant, indeed, will 
those terms appear to any notion entertained of the 
death of Christ which excludes its expiatory charac- 
ter, that to assume that our Lord and his apostles used 
them as metaphors is profanely to assume them to be 
such writers as would not in any other case be toler- 
ated; writers wholly unacquainted wtih the common- 
est rules of language, and therefore wholly unfit to be 
teachers of others, and that not only in religion, but in 
things of inferior importance. 

2. “The use of such terms, we have said, -would not 
onty be wholly absurd, but criminally misleading to 
the Gentiles, as well as to the Jews, who were first 
converted to Christianity. To them the notion of pro- 
pitiatory offerings, offerings to avert the displeasure 
of the gods, and which expiated the crimes of offend- 
ers, was most familiar, and terms corresponding to it 
were in constant use. The bold denial of this by Dr. 
Priestly might well bring upon him the reproof of arch- 
bishop Magee, -who, after establishing this point from 
the Greek and Latin writers, observes, ‘So clearly 
does their language announce the notion of a propitia- 
tory atonement, that if wc would avoid an imputation 
on Dr. Priestly’s fairness, we are driven, of necessity, 
to question the extent of his acquaintance with those 
writers.’ The reader may consult the instances given 
by this writer in No. 5 of his ‘ Illustrations,’ appended 
to liis ‘Discourses on the Atonement;’ and also the 
tenth chapter of Grotius’s De Satisfaction e, whose 
learning has most amply illustrated and firmly settled 
this view of the heathen sacrifices. The use to be 
made of this in the argument is, that as the apostles 
found the very terms they used with reference to the 
nature and efficacy of the death of Christ fixed in an 
expiatory signification among the Greeks, they could 
not, in honesty, use them in a distant figurative sense, 
much less in a contrary one, without giving their read- 
ers due notice of their having invested them with a 
new import. From dyoQ, ci pollution , an impurity , which 
was to be expiated by sacrifice, are derived ciyid^io and 
dyici^to, which denote the act of expiation ; KaOatpio, 
too, to purify , cleanse, is applied to the effect of expia- 
tion ; and WdaKopai denotes the method of propitia- 
ting the gods by sacrifice. These, and other words of 
similar import, are used by the authors of the Septua- 
gint, and by the evangelists and apostles; but they 
give no premonition of using them in any strange and 
altered sense ; and when they apply them to the death 
of Christ, they must, therefore, be understood to use 
them in their received meaning. In like manner the 
Jews had their expiatory sacrifices, and the terms and 
phrases used in them are, in like manner, employed by 
the apostles to characterize the death of their Lord ; 
and they would have been as guilty of misleading 
their Jewish as their Gentile readers had they em- 
ployed them in a new sense, and without warning, 
which, unquestionably, they never gave. 

3. “As to the expiatory nature of the sacrifices of 
the law, it is not required by the argument to show 
that all the Levitical offerings -were of this character. 
There were also offerings for persons and for things 
prescribed for purification, which were identical; but 
even they grew out of the leading notion of expiatory 
sacrifice, and that legal purification which resulted 
from the forgiveness of sins. It is enough to prove 
that the grand and eminent sacrifices of the Jews were 
strictly expiatory, and that by them the offerers were 
released from punishment and death, for which ends 
they were appointed by the lawgiver. When we speak, 
too, of vicarious sacrifice, wc do not mean either, on 
the one hand, such a substitution as that the victim 
should bear the same quantum of pain and suffering as 
the offender himself; or, on the other hand, that it 
was put in the place of the offender as a mere symbol- 
ical act, by which he confessed his desert of punish- 


ment ; but substitution made by divine appointment , by 
which the victim was exposed to sufferings and death 
instead of the offender, in virtue of which the offender 
himself was released. With this view, one can scarce- 
ly conceive why so able a writer as archbishop Magee 
should prefer to use the term ‘ vicarious imp>ort' rather 
than the simple and established term ‘ vicarious,’ since 
the Antinomian notion of substitution may be other- 
wise sufficiently guarded against, and the phrase ‘ vi- 
carious import' is certainly capable of being resolved 
into that figurative notion of mere symbolical action, 
which, however plausible, does in fact deprive the an- 
cient sacrifices of their typical, and the oblation of 
Christ of its real efficacy. Vicarious acting is acting 
for another; vicarious suffering is suffering for anoth- 
er ; but the nature and circumstances of that suffering 
in the case of Christ are to be determined by the doc- 
trine of Scripture at large, and not wholly by the term 
itself, which is, however, useful for this purpose (and 
therefore to be preserved), that it indicates the sense 
in which those who use it understand the declaration 
of Scripture, ‘ Christ died for us,’ so as that he died 
not merely for our benefit , but in our stead ; in other 
words, that, but for his having died, those -who believe 
in him would personally have suffered that death which 
is the penalty of every violation of the law of God. 

4. “That sacrifices under the law were expiatory 
and vicarious admits of abundant proof. The chief 
objections made to this doctrine are, (1.) That under 
the law, in all capital cases, the offender, upon legal 
proof or conviction, was doomed to die, and that no 
sacrifice could exempt him from the penalty. (2.) 
That in all lower cases to which the law had not at- 
tached capital punishment, but pecuniary mulcts, or 
personal labor or servitude upon their non-payment, 
this penalty was to be strictly executed, and none 
could plead any privilege for exemption on account of 
sacrifice ; and that when sacrifices were ordained with 
a pecuniary mulct, they are to be regarded in the light 
off ne, one part of which was paid to the state, the 
other to the Church. This was the mode of argument 
adopted by the author of The Moral Philosopher , and 
nothing of weight has been added to these objections 
I since his day. Now much of this may be granted 
without any prejudice to the argument, and, indeed, 
is no more than the most orthodox writers on this sub- 
ject have often remarked. The law under which the 
Jews were placed was at once, as to them, both a 
moral and a political law ; and the lawgiver excepted 
certain offences from the benefit of pardon, because 
that would have been exemption from temporal death, 
which was the state penalty. He therefore would ac- 
cept no atonement for such transgressions. Blasphe- 
my, idolatry, murder, and adultery were the ‘pre- 
sumptuous sins’ which were thus exempted ; and the 
reason will be seen in the political relation of the peo- 
ple to God ; for, in refusing to exempt them from pun- 
ishment in this world, respect was had to the order and 
| benefit of society. Banning parallel, however, with 
this political application of the law to the Jews as sub- 
jects of the theocracy, we see the authority of the moral 
law kept over them as men and creatures ; and if these 
‘presumptuous sins’ of blasphemy and idolatry, of 
murder and adultery, and a few others, were the only 
capital crimes considered politically, they were not the 
only capital crimes considered moralh T ; that is, there 
were other crimes which would have subjected the 
j offender to death but for this provision of expiatory 
oblations. The true question, then, is whether such 
, sacrifices were appointed by God, and accepted instead 
of the personal punishment or life of the offender, 
j which otherwise would have been forfeited, as in the 
| other eases ; and, if so, if the. life of animal sacrifices 
was accepted instead of the life of man, then the notion 
that ‘ the} r were mere mulets and pecuniary penalties' 

' falls to the ground, and the vicarious nature of most 
! of the Levitical oblations is established. That other 


EXPIATION 


422 


EXPIATION 


offences besides those above mentioned were capital, 
that is, exposed the offender to death, is clear from 
this, that all offences against the law had this capital 
character. As death was the sanction of the com- 
mandment given to Adam, so anyone who transgress- 
ed any part of the law of Moses became guilty of death ; 
every man was ‘accursed,’ that is, devoted to die, who 
* continued not in all things written in the book of the 
law.’ * The man only that doeth these things shall 
live by them’ was the rule; and it was, therefore, to 
redeem the offenders from this penalty that sacrifices 
were appointed. So, with reference to the great day 
of expiation, we read, ‘ For on that day shall the priest 
make an atonement for you, to cleanse you, that you 
may be clean from all your sins; and this shall be an 
everlasting statute unto you, to make an atonement 
for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year’ 
(Lev. xvi, 30-34). 

5. ‘‘To prove that this was the intention and effect 
of the annual sacrifices of the Jews, we need do little 
more than refer to Lev. xvii, 10, 11 : ‘ I will set my 
face against that soul that eateth blood, and will cut 
him off from among his people. For the life of the 
flesh is in the blood ; and I have given it to you upon 
the altar to make an atonement for your souls : for it 
is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul.’ 
Here the blood which is said to make an atonement 
for the soul is the blood of the victims ; and to make 
an atonement for the soul is the same as to be a ran- 
som for the soul, as will appear by referring to Exod. 
xxx, 12-1G ; and to be a ransom for the soul is to avert 
death. ‘They shall give every man a ransom for his 
soul unto the Lord, that there be no plague among 
them,’ by which their lives might be suddenly taken 
away. The ‘ soul’ is also here used obviously for the 
life ; the blood, or the life of the victims in all sacri- 
fices, was substituted for the life of man, to preserve 
him from death, and the victims were therefore vica- 
rious. 

G. “The Hebrew word ta )E3, rendered atonement , 
signifying primarily to cover , to overspread , has been 
the subject of some es’asive criticisms. It comes, how- 
ever, in the secondary sense, to signify atonement or 
propitiation, because the effect of that is to cover, or, 
in Scripture meaning, to remit offences. The Septua- 
gint also renders it by i^iXdcKopai, to appease, to make 
propitious. It is used, indeed, where the means of 
atonement are not of the sacrificial kind; but these in- 
stances equally' serve to evince the Scripture sense of 
the term, in cases of transgression, to be that of recon- 
ciling the offended deity by averting his displeasure, 
so that when the atonement for sin is said to be made 
by sacrifice, no doubt can remain that the sacrifice was 
strictly a sacrifice of propitiation. Agreeably to this 
conclusion, we find it expressly declared, in the several 
cases of piacular oblations for transgression of the di- 
vine commands, that the sins for which atonement was 
made by those oblations should be forgiven. 

7. “As the notion that the sacrifices of the law were 
not vicarious, but mere mulcts and lines, is overturned 
by the general appointment of the blood to be an atone- 
ment for the souls, the forfeited lives, of men, so also 
is it contradicted by particular instances. Let us refer 
to Lev. vi, 15, 16: ‘If a soul commit a trespass, and 
sin through ignorance in the holy things 'of the Lord, 
he shall make amends for the harm that he hath done 
in the holy thing, and shall add a fifth part thereto, 
and shall give it to the priest.’ Here, indeed, is the 
proper fine for the trespass; but it is added, ‘ He shall 
bring for his trespass unto the Lord a ram without 
blemish, and the priest shall make atonement for him 
with the ram of the trespass offering, and it shall be 
forgiven him.’ Thus, then, so far from the .sacrifice 
being the fine, the fine is distinguished from it, and 
with the ram only was the~atonement fnade to the 
Lord for his trespass. Nor can the ceremonies with 


which the trespass and sin offerings were accompanied 
agree with any notion but that of their vicarious char- 
acter. The worshipper, conscious of his trespass, 
brought an animal, his own property, to the door of 
the tabernacle. This was not a euchnristical act ; not 
a memorial of mercies received, but of sins committed. 
He laid his hands upon, the head of the animal, the 
symbolical act of transferring punishment, then slew 
it with his own hand, and delivered it to the priest, 
who burned the fat and part of the animal upon the 
altar ; and, having sprinkled part of the blood upon 
the altar, and in some cases upon the offerer himself, 
poured the vest at the bottom of the altar. And thus, 
we are told, ‘ The priest shall make an atonement for 
him as concerning his sin, and it shall be furgiven 
him.’ So clearly is it made manifest by these actions, 
and by the description of their nature and end, that 
the animal bore the punishment of the offender, and 
that by this appointment he was reconciled to God, 
and obtained the forgiveness of his offences. 

8. “An equally strong proof that the life of the ani- 
mal sacrifice was accepted in the place of the life of 
man is afforded by the fact that atonement was re- 
quired by the law to be made, by sin offerings and 
burnt offerings, for even bodily distempers and disor- 
ders. It is not necessary 1 - to the argument to explain 
the distinctions between these various oblations, nor 
yet to inquire into the reason for requiring propitiation 
to be made for corporal infirmities, which in many 
cases could not be avoided. They' were, however, 
thus connected with sin as the cause of all these disor- 
ders ; and God, who had placed his residence among 
the Israelites, insisted upon a perfect ceremonial puri- 
ty’, to impress upon them a sense of his moral purity’, 
and the necessity’ of purification of mind. Whether 
these were the reasons, or some others not at all dis- 
coverable by r us, all such unclean persons were liable 
to death, and were exempted from it only’ by’ animal 
sacrifices. This appears from the conclusion to all the 
Levitical directions concerning the ceremonial to be 
observed in all such eases: ‘Thus shall ye separate 
the children of Israel from their uncleanness ; that 
they' die not in,’ or by, ‘their uncleanness, when they 
defile my’ tabernacle which is among them' (Lev. xv, 
31). So that, by’ virtue of the sin offerings, the chil- 
dren of Israel were saved from a death u hich other- 
wise they' would have suffered from their uncleanness, 
and that by’ substituting the life of the animal for the 
life of the offerer. Nor can it be urged that death is 
in these instances threatened only’ as the punishment 
of not observing these laws of purification ; for the rea- 
son given in tiie passage just quoted shows that the 
threatening of death was not hypothetical upon their 
not bringing the prescribed purification, hut is ground- 
ed upon the fact of ‘defiling the tabernacle of the Lord 
which was among them,’ which is supposed to be done 
by' all uncleanness, as such, in the first instance. 

9. “As a farther proof of the vicarious character of 
the principal sacrifices of the Mosaic economy' we may 
instance those statedly’ offered for the whole congrega- 
tion. Every’ day were offered two lambs, oue in the 
morning and the other in the evening, ‘ for a continual 
burnt offering.’ To these daily’ victims were to be 
added weekly’ two other lambs for the burnt offering 
of everv Sabbath. None of these could be considered 
in the light of fines for offences, since they were offer- 
ed for no particular person, and must be considered, 
therefore, unless resolved into an unmeaning ceremo- 
ny', piacular and vicarious. To pass over, however, 
the monthly' sacrifices, and those offered at the great 
feasts, it is sufficient to fix upon those, so often alluded 
to in the Epistle to the Hebrews, offered on the solemn 
anniversary* of expiation. On that day*, to other pre- 
scribed sacrifices, -were to be added another ram f or a 
burnt offering, and another goat, the most eminent of 
the sacrifices for a sin offering, whose blood was to he 
carried by the high-priest into the inner sanctuary, 


EXPIATION 


423 


EXPIATION 


'which was not done by the blood of any other victim, 
except the bullock, which was offered the same day as 
a sin offering for the family of Aaron. The circum- 
stances of this ceremony, whereby atonement was to 
be made ‘for all the sins’ of the whole Jewish people, 
are so strikingly significant that they deserve a partic- 
ular detail. On the day appointed for this general 
expiation the priest is commanded to offer a bullock 
and a goat as sin offerings, the one for himself and 
the other for the people ; and, having sprinkled the 
blood of these in due form before the mercy seat, to 
lead forth a second goat, denominated ‘the scape- 
goat;’ and, after laying both his hands upon the head 
of the scape-goat, and confessing over him all the in- 
iquities of the people, to put them upon the head of 
the goat, and to send the animal, thus bearing the sins 
of the people, away into the wilderness ; in this man- 
ner expressing, by an action which cannot be misun- 
derstood, that the atonement, which, it is affirmed, was 
to be effected by the sacrifice of the sin offering, con- 
sisted in removing from the people their iniquities by 
this translation of them to the animal. For it is to be 
remarked that the ceremony of the scape-goat is not a 
distinct one : it is a continuation of the process, and is 
evidently the concluding part and symbolical consum- 
mation of the sin offering ; so that the transfer of the 
iniquities of the people upon the head of the scape- 
goat, and the bearing them away into the wilderness, 
manifestly imply that the atonement effected by the 
sacrifice of the sin offering consisted in the transfer 
and consequent removal of those iniquities. 

10. “ [low, then, is this impressive and singular 
ceremonial to be explained ? Shall we resort to the 
notion of mulcts and fines? If so, then this and other 
stated sacrifices must be considered in the light of pe- 
nal enactments. But this cannot agree with the an- 
poiutmeiit of such sacrifices annually in succeeding 
generations : ‘ This shall be a statute forever unto 
you.’ The law appoints a certain day in the year for 
expiating the sins both of the high-priest himself and 
of the whole congregation, and that for all high-priests 
and all generations of the congregation. Now, could 
a law be enacted inflicting a certain penalty, at a cer- 
tain time, upon a whole people, as "well as upon their 
high-priest, thus presuming upon their actual trans- 
gression of it ? The sacrifice was also for sins in gen- 
eral ; and yet the penalty, if it were one, is not greater 
than individual persons were often obliged to undergo 
for single trespasses. Nothing, certainly, can be more 
absurd than this hypothesis. Shall we account for it 
by saying that sacrifices -were offered for the benefit of 
the worshipper, but exclude the notion of expiation? 
But here we are obliged to confine the benefit to rec- 
onciliation and the taking away of sins, and that by 
the appointed means of the shedding of blood, and the 
presentation of blood in the holy place, accompanied 
by the expressive ceremony of imposition of hands 
upon the head of the victim ; the import of which act 
is fixed, beyond all controversy, bv the priests confess- 
ing over that victim the sins of all the people, and at 
the same time imprecating upon its head the venge- 
ance due to them (Lev. xvi, 21). Shall we content 
ourselves with merely saying that this was a symbol? 
But the question remains, Of wliat was it the symbol ? 
To determine this, let the several parts of the symbolic 
action be enumerated. Here is confession "of sin; 
confession before God at the door of the tabernacle ; 
the substitution of a victim ; the figurative transfer 
of sins to that victim ; the shedding of blood, which 
God appointed to make atonement for the soul ; the 
carrying the blood into the holiest place, the very per- 
mission of which clearly marked the divine accept- 
ance ; the bearing away of iniquity ; and the actual 
reconciliation of the people to God. If, then, this is 
symbolical, it has nothing very correspondent with it; 
it never had or can have anything correspondent to it 
but the sacrificial death of Jesus Christ, and the com- 


munication of the benefits of his passion in the forgive* 
ness of sins to those that believe in him, and in their 
reconciliation with God. Shall we, finally, say that 
those sacrifices had respect, not to God, to obtain par- 
don by expiation, but to the offerer, teaching him 
moral lessons, and calling forth moral dispositions? 
We answer that this hypothesis leaves many of the 
! essential circumstances of the ceremonial wholly un- 
accounted for. The tabernacle and temple were erect- 
ed for the residence of God by his own command. 
There it was his will to be approached, and to these 
sacred places the victims were required to be brought. 
Anywhere else they might as well have been offered, 
if the}’- had had respect only to the offerer; but they 
were required to be brought to God, to be offered ac- 
cording to a prescribed ritual, and by an order of men 
appointed for that purpose. Now truly there is no 
reason why they should be offered in the sanctuary 
rather than in any other place, except that they were 
offered to the Inhabitant of the sanctuary; nor could 
they be offered in his presence without having respect 
to him. There were some victims whose blood, on the 
day of atonement, was to be carried into the inner 
sanctuary; but for what purpose can we suppose the 
blood to have been carried into the most secret place 
of the divine residence, except to obtain the favor of 
him in whose presence it was sprinkled? To this we 
may add that the reason given for these sacred servi- 
ces is not in any ease a mere moral effect to be pro- 
duced upon the minds of the worshippers : they were 
‘to make atonement,’ that is, to avert God’s displeas- 
ure, that the people might not ‘die.’ 

11. “ We may find, also, another more explicit illus- 
tration in the sacrifice of the passover. The sacrificial 
character of this offering is strongly marked ; for it 
was an offering brought to the tabernacle ; it was slain 
in the sanctuary, and the blood was sprinkled upon 
the altar by the priests. It derives its name from the 
passing over and sparing of the houses of the Israel- 
ites, on the door-posts of which the blood of the immo- 
lated lamb was sprinkled, when the first-born in the 
houses of the Egyptians were slain; and thus we have 
! another instance of life being spared by the instituted 
means of animal sacrifice. Nor need we confine our- 
selves to particular instances. ‘Almost all things, ’ 
says an apostle, who surely knew his subject, ‘are by 
the law purged with blood ; and without shedding of 
blood there is no remission.’ Thus, by their very law, 
and by constant usage, were the Jews familiarized to 
the notion of expiatory sacrifice, as well as by the his- 
tory contained in their sacred books, especially in Gen- 
esis, which speaks of the vicarious sacrifices offered by 
the patriarchs; and in the book of Job, in which that 
patriarch is said to have offered sacrifices for the sup- 
posed sins of his sons ; and where Eliphaz is command- 
I ed, by a divine oracle, to offer a burnt-offering for him- 
self and his friends, ‘ lest God should deal with them 
after their folly.’ 

T2. “On the sentiments of the uninspired Jewish 
writers on this point, the substitution of the life of the 
! animal for that of the offerer, and, consequent^, the 
expiatory nature of their sacrifices, Outram has given 
many quotations from their writings, which the reader 
may consult in his work on Sacrifices. Two or three 
only may be adduced by way of specimen. B. Levi 
bcn-Gorson says, ‘ The imposition of the hands of the 
offerers was designed to indicate that their sins were 
removed from themselves and transferred to the ani- 
mal.’ Isaac hen-Arama : He transfers his sins from 
himself, and lays them upon the head of the victim.’ 
IL Closes ben-Naehman says, with respect to a sinner 
offering a victim, ‘ It was just that his blood should be 
shed, and that his body should be burned ; but the 
Creator, of his mercy, accepted the victim from him 
as his substitute and ransom, that the blood of the an- 
imal might be shed instead of his blood — that is, that 
the blood of the animal might be given for his lifo.’ 


EXPOSITION 


424 


EXTREME UNCTION 


13. “ Full of these ideas of vicarious expiation, then, 
the apostles wrote and spoke, and the Jews of their 
time heard and read, the hooks of the New Testament. 
The Soeinian pretence is, that the inspired penmen 
used the sacrificial terms which occur in their writings 
figuratively ; but wc not only reply, as before, that 
they could not do this honestly unless they had given 
notice of this new application of the established terms 
of the Jewish theology ; but, if this be assumed, it 
leaves us wholly at a loss to discover what that really 
was which they intended to teach by these sacrificial 
terms and allusions. They are themselves utterly si- 
lent as to this point; and the varying theories of those 
who reject the doctrine of atonement, in fact, confess 
that their writings afford no solution of the difficulty. 
If, therefore, it is blasphemous to suppose, on the one 
hand, that inspired men should write on purpose to 
mislead, so, on the other, it is utterly inconceivable 
that, had they only been ordinary writers, they should 
construct a figurative language out of terms which 
had a definite and established sense, without giving 
any intimation at all that they employed them other- 
wise than in their received meaning, or telling us why 
they adopted them at all, and more especially when 
they knew that they must be interpreted, both by Jews 
and Greeks, in a sense which, if the Socinians are 
right, was in direct opposition to that which they in 
tended to convey.'’ — A Vat son, Theol. Dictionary , s. v. 

Some modern writers deny the expiatory character 
of the Jewish sacrifices. So Buslmell ( Vicarious Sac - 
rifee, p. 425) asserts that no such tiling as expiation is 
contained or supposed to be wrought out in the Scrip- 
ture sacrifices. On this see British Quarterly , Oct. 
I860, reprinted in the Theol. Eclectic (New Haven), iv, 
397 ; and also an article on the Expiatory Nature of 
the Atonement (Brit. Quarterly, Oct. 18G7 ; also in the 
Theol. Eclectic , v, 201 sq.). See the articles Atone- 
ment; Redemption; Sacrifice. 

Exposition, “the opening up and interpreting 
larger portions of Scripture in public discourses. In 
Scotland, where the practice lias long obtained, and 
still extensively prevails, it is called lecturing. AVhile 
the striking and insulated texts of Scripture, which 
furnish abundant matter for sermons, are- calculated, 
when judiciously treated, to rouse and fix attention ; 
and the discourses founded on them may be more use- 
ful to general hearers, especially the careless and un- 
converted, expository discourses furnish peculiar ad- 
vantages as it regards the enlargement of the Chris- 
tian’s views of divine truth, and his consequent ad- 
vancement in the ways of God. By judiciously ex- 
pounding the Scriptures, a minister may hope to give 
a clearer exhibition of the great principles of religion 
in their mutual connections and diversified bearings 
than could otherwise be done. He will have a better 
opportunity of unfolding the true meaning of those 
parts of the Bible which are difficult — of bringing a 
vast variety of topics before his hearers, which may be 
of the utmost importance to them, but which he could 
not so conveniently have treated in preaching from 
detached texts — of exhibiting the doctrines and duties 
of Christianity in their relative positions — of success- 
fully counteracting and arresting the progress of dan- 
gerous errors, and of storing the minds of his people 
with correct and influential views of divine things. 
(See Doddridge on Preaching.') Such a mode of public 
instruction cannot but prove of great use to a minis- 
ter’s own mind, by rousing his energies, habituating 
him to close and accurate research, and saving him 
much of that indecision in the choice of texts which 
is so much lamented” (Buck, Theolog. Dictionary, s. v.). 
Hr. James AY. Alexander was very earnest in advising 
expository preaching. “It is the most obvious and 
natural way of conveying to the hearers the import of 
the sacred volume. It is the very work (to interpret 
the Scriptures) for which the ministry was instituted.” 
He advises exposition of whole chapters or books in 


course, pleading for it not only the sanction of ancient 
usage, but also certain great advantages of the meth- 
od both to the preacher and his hearers (Thoughts on 
Preaching, N. Y. 1867, 12ino, p. 272 sq.). See Homi- 
letics. 

Expositions of Scripture. See Commentary. 

Exsuperius, bishop of Toulouse in the end of the 
4th and beginning of the 5th century, celebrated for 
the exercise of remarkable charity during a great fam- 
ine. After having given away all his own property, 
he sold the sacred vessels of gold and silver to help the 
| poor. Jerome compared him to the widow of Sarepta, 

; and dedicated to him his Commentary on Zecliariah. 
Pope Innocent addressed a decretal to him. He died 
about A. I). 417. See Acta Sanctorum , Sept. 28; Tille- 
niont, Memoires , x, 017, 825 ; A. Butler, Lives of Saints , 
September 28. 

Extempore Preaching. See Homiletics. 

Extra vagants (Exiravagantes), a name given to 
decretal epistles of fhe popes issued after Gratian’s 
Decretum , and not contained in that work (see Canon 
Law, vol. ii, p. 87, eol. 2). They were therefore call- 
ed extra decretum vagantes, or, briefly, extravagantes ; 
and this name was still given to them after their in- 
sertion in the body of the canon law. For an account 
of the different collections of extravagantes , see Canon 
Law. 

Extreme Unction, one of the sacraments (the 
5th) of the Roman Church, administered to sick per- 
sons in extremis , by anointing them with oil when 
death appears near. It dates from the 11th century, 
though the Roman Church, of course, seeks to trace 
it back to the apostolic age. 

I. Origin of the Practice. — The Church of Rome ap- 
peals (see below) to Mark vi, 13, and James v, 14-16, 
as Scripture authority for extreme unction. Ill Mark 
we are told that the apostles “ anointed with oil many 
that were sick, and healed them.” Clearly there is no 
trace of the “sacrament” here. The Council of Trent, 
in citing this passage, shrewdh' says that it is “inti- 
mated” only iu Mark, because, according to Rome, the 
apostles were not “ priests” until the Last Supper. If, 
then, the passage in Mark teaches the institution of the 
sacrament, it would follow' that others beside priests 
could administer it. Cardinal Cajctan, as cited by 
Catharinus, rejects this text as inapplicable to this 
sacrament; and Suarez (in part iii, di^-p. 39, § 1, n. 5) 
says that “when the apostles are said to anoint the 
sick and heal them (Mark vi, 13), this was not said in 
reference to the sacrament of unction, because their 
j cures had not of themselves an immediate respect to 
the soul.” As to the passage in James, it speaks of an 
anointing for “healing” by all the elders of the Church, 
who might or might not be laymen ; it was “the pray- 
er of faitli that was to save the sick” (see, for a thor- 
| ough discussion of this passage, Elliott, Delineation of 
' Romanism , bk. ii, eh. xiv). 

IL The Ancient Greek Church. — The ancient writers 
of the Greek Church use the passage of James only for 
exegetieal, not for dogmatical purposes. Origcn, in 
the second homily on Lcvit. iv, quotes the words of 
James when he speaks of the different ways which are 
given to the Christian for the remission of their sins. 
As the seventh way he mentions severe penance, in 
which he finds a compliance with the words of James: 
“ If any be sick, let him call for the elders of the 
Church, and let them lay their hands on him, anoint- 
ing him with oil in the name of the Lord,” etc. The 
connection show’s that Origen applies the words to 
mental and physical sickness, and the laying on of 
hands, which he adds to the apostolic words, points to a 
local use of anointment in Alexandria at the reconcili- 
ation of the lapsi. Chrysostom (On the Priesthood . iii, 
196) quotes the words of James only as an argument 
that the priests have the power of remitting sins, 
j John of Damascus, in. speaking of the mysteries of the 


EXTREME UNCTIOX 


425 


EXTREME UXCTIOX 


Church, treats only of baptism and the Lord’s Supper. ! 
The first certain testimony for the use of the anoint- 
ment of the sick in the Greek Church is given by a 
Western writer about 798, Theodulf of Orleans. 

III. The Ancient Latin Church. — In the Western 
Church, Irenoeus (i, 21, 5) states that the Gnostics, and 
in particular the Heracleonites, poured upon dying 
members a mixture of water and oil, amidst an invo- 
cation of praver, in order that their souls might be- 
come invisible and inaccessible to the hostile powers 
of the spiritual world. It is uncritical in the highest 
degree for Roman Catholic writers to infer from the ex- 
istence of a Gnostic rite the existence of a similar rite 
in the orthodox Church. Tertullian and Cyprian, to 
whom we are indebted for so full information of the 
ecclesiastical usages of the Western Church, know 
nothing of extreme unction as a sacrament. This si- 
lence can not be explained by a reference to the dis- , 
ciplina arcani, as the latter exclusively embraced bap- 
tism and the Lord’s Supper, and as even those topics, 
notwithstanding the disciplina arcani , are frequently 
and fully discussed by the ecclesiastical writers. Many 
of the latter mention the frequent use of oil as a pecu- 
liar charisma for miraculous cures. Thus it is related 
by Tertullian that the pagan Severus, father of the em- 
peror Antoninus, was cured by the Christian Proclus 
by means of anointment. This certainly can have no 
reference to a sacrament for the use of Christians. 
(Many other examples of this use of oil may be found 
in Chemnitz, and in Binterim, JJenhcurdigkeiten , vol. 
vi, pt. iii, p. 289.) Superstition developed this usage, 
and it occurred, according to the testimony of Chrysos- 
tom, that the lamps burning in the churches were plun- 
dered for the purpose of using the oil as a preservative 
against possible, and, as a miraculous remedy, against 
actual diseases. It is easy to comprehend how this 
medicinal and miraculous anointment could become 
the basis and the origin of a sacrament (see on this 
point Marheineke, Symbolik , i, 3, p. 258). The transi- 
tion is visible in an epistle from the Roman bishop In- 
nocent I to bishop Decentius, of Eugubium, written in 
410. Innocent calls the anointment of the sick a 
‘‘kind of sacrament” (genus sacramenti) ; and while 
he reserves to the bishops the right of preparing the 
sacred oil, he states that both priests and laymen may 
apply the oil (quod ab episcopo confectum non solum 
sacerdotibus sed omnibus uti Christianis licet in sua 
aut in suorum necessitate unguendum), which is entire- 
ly at variance with the present teaching of the Church 
of Rome, according to which the sacrament can be ad- 
ministered >only by priests. From the beginning of 
the ninth century the anointment of the sick is fre- 
quently mentioned in the acts of the Councils. Theo- 
dulf of Orleans (798), and the first Council of Mentz 
(847), place it by the side of penance and the Eucharist, 
but preceding the two latter. The recovery of the 
sick is always regarded as the chief object. Its use 
appears to have been considered necessary only for 
sinners ; for abbot Adelhard, of Corbie, was asked by 
the monks of the monaster}’ whether he desired to be 
anointed with the sacred oil, as they were certain that 
he was free from sins. The conception of the anoint- 
ment of the sick as an act of penance caused a discus- 
sion of the question whether it could be repeated. 
Ivo of Chartres, and Godfrey, abbot of Ven dome (about 
1100), denied that the rite could be administered more 
than once, comparing it with the public penance ; and 
it was a popular belief that a person recovering from 
sickness after receiving the anointment must not touch 
the ground with bare feet, and abstain from marital in- 
tercourse and the eating of meat. It was in the course 
of the 12th century that the names sacramcntum excun - 
Hum and extrema unctio came first into use. 

IV. Extreme Unction as a Sacrament in the Church 
of Rome . — A full dogmatical treatment of the anoint- 
ment of the sick, according to the teaching gradually 
developed in the Church, was first given by Hugo of 


St. Victor ( De Sacram.fidei lib. ii, p. xv). Peter Lom- 
bardus assigned to it, in the series of the seven sacra- 
ments which he is the first to mention, the fifth place 
(Sentent. lib. iv, diet. 23). The scholastics, and, in par- 
ticular, Thomas Aquinas, completed the scientific de- 
velopment of this doctrine, and the shape given to it 
by Thomas received the sanction of the Councils of 
Floreuce and of Trent. 

The canons of Trent oil this subject are : “ Canon 1. 
If any shall say that extreme unction is not truly and 
properly a sacrament, instituted by our Lord Jesus 
Christ, and declared by the blessed apostle James, but 
only a rite received from the fathers, or a human inven- 
tion, let him be accursed. Can. 2. If any shall say that 
the holy anointing of the sick does not confer grace, nor 
remit sins, nor relieve the sick, but that it has ceased, 
as if it were formerly only the grace of healing, let 
him be accursed. Can. 3. If any shall say that the i ite 
and usage of extreme unction, which the holy Roman 
Church observes, is contrary to the sentence of the bless- 
ed apostle James, and therefore should be changed, and 
may be despised by Christians without sin, let him be 
accursed. Can. 4. If any shall say that the presbyters 
of the Church, whom St. Janies directs to be called for 
the anointing of the sick, are not priests ordained by 
the bishops, but elders in age in any community, and 
that therefore the priest is not the only proper minis- 
ter of extreme unction, let him be accursed” ( 'ConcU . 
Trident, sess. xiv, c. i sq.). The authority for this 
sacrament is stated by the Council (same session, c. i) 
as follows: “This sacred unction of the sick was in- 
stituted as a true and proper sacrament of the New 
Testament by Christ Jesus our Lord, being first inti- 
mated by Mark (vi, 13), and afterwards recommended 
and published to the faithful by James the apostle, 
brother of our Lord. ‘Is any man,’ saith he, ‘sick 
among you? Let him bring in the priests of the 
Church, and let them pray over him, anointing him 
with oil in the name of the Lord ; and the prayer of 
faith shall save the sick man ; and the Lord shall raise 
him up ; and if he be in sins, they shall be forgiven 
him’ (Jas. v, 14, 15). In which words, as the Church 
has learned by apostolical tradition, handed down from 
age to age, he teaches the matter, form, proper minis- 
ter, and effect of this salutary sacrament. For the 
Church understands the matter of the sacrament to be 
the oil, blessed by the bishop; the unction most fitly 
representing the grace of the Holy Spirit, wherewith 
the soul of the sick man is invisibly anointed. The 
form is contained in the words of administration.” 

The ceremony must be performed by a priest. The 
oil must be olive oil consecrated by a bishop. “ No 
other sort of oil can be the matter of this sacrament ; 
and this its matter is most significant of its efficacy. 
Oil is very efficacious in soothing bodily pain, and this 
sacrament soothes and alleviates the pain and anguish 
of the soul. Oil also contributes to restore health and 
spirits, serves to give light, and refreshes fatigue; 
and these effects correspond with and are expressive 
of those produced, through the divine power, on the 
sick by the administration of this sacrament” (Cate- 
chism of Trent , Baltimore, 8vo, p. 20G). The form of 
the ceremony is as follows : The priest, having dipped 
the thumb of his right hand in the holy oil, proceeds 
to mark the organs of the five senses of the patient 
with the sign of the cross ; and after each application 
he wipes the part with a ball of cotton, for which pur- 
pose he brings with him seven balls already prepared. 
The order observed is this : the right eye is first anoint- 
ed, then the left eye, the ears, and after them the nos- 
trils (not the tip of the nose) are attended to in the 
same order, then the lips ; after which the palms of 
the hands and soles of the feet receive the touch of the 
consecrated unguent. Men are also anointed in the 
reins, but this is dispensed with in the case of women. 
At each application the priest says, 11 Per hxnc sacram 
unctionem , et suam piissimam misericordiam indulgeat 


EXTREME UXCTIOX 


426 


EYE 


till Deus quicquid peccdsti, per visum” or “ auditum” 
“ olf actum,” “ gustum “ et tactum ,” as the case may 
be — “May God, by this holy anointing, and by his 
most pious mercy, pardon you the sins that you have 
committed by the eyes,” “ears,” “nose,” “taste,” 
and “touch;” “The anointing being ended, the priest 
rubs those of his lingers which have touched the oil 
with small pieces of bread, and then washes his hands. 
The crumbs of bread and the water are next thrown 
into the lire ; and the pieces of cotton employed in the 
ceremony are carried into the church and burned, the 
ashes of which must be thrown into the sacrarium 
As to the persons to whom extreme unction is to be ad- 
ministered, the Catechism (l. c.) limits it “to those 
whose malady is such as to excite apprehensions of 
approaching dissolution. It is, however, a very griev- 
ous sin to defer the holy unction until, all hope of re- 
covery now lost, life begins to ebb, and the sick person 
is fast verging into insensibility.” . . . “Extreme unc- 
tion, then, can be administered only to the sick, and 
not to persons in health, although engaged in any- 
thing however dangerous, such as a perilous voyage, 
or the fatal dangers of battle. It cannot be adminis- 
tered even to persons condemned to death, and already 
ordered for execution. Its participation is also denied 
to insane persons, and to children incapable of com- 
mitting sin, who, therefore, do not require to be puri- 
fied from its stains, and also to those who labor under 
the awful visitation of madness, unless they give indi- 
cations in their lucid intervals of a disposition to piety, 
and express a desire to be anointed. To persons in- 
sane from their birth this sacrament is not to be ad- 
ministered ; but if a sick person, while in the posses- 
sion of his faculties, expressed a wish to receive ex- 
treme unction, and afterwards becomes delirious, he is 
to be anointed.” . . . “The pastor will follow the uni- 
form practice of the Catholic Church, and not admin- 
ister extreme unction until the penitent has confessed 
and received the Eucharist.” 

The effect, of extreme unction is stated by the Coun- 
cil of Trent (sess. xiv, ch. ii) as follows : “ The power 
and effect of this sacrament are explained in the words 
‘and the prayer of faith shall save the sick man, and 
the Lord shall raise him up; and if he he in sins, they 
shall be forgiven him.* For this power is the grace 
of the Holy Spirit, whose unction cleanses away sins, 
if any remain to be expiated, even the last traces of 
sin , and relieves and confirms the soul of the sick 
man, exciting in him strong confidence -of the divine 
mercy: by which strengthened, he bears far better 
the inconveniences and pains of his disorder; resists 
more easily the temptations of the devil, who does, as 
it were, lie in wait at his heels ; and sometimes ob- 
tains the restoration of his bodily health, if the same 
shall further the salvation of his soul.” 

V. The Greek Church. — The Greek Church uses 
anointing with oil [see Euchelaion] as one of its 
“ mysteries,” hut does not limit it to cases of supposed 
mortal illness. She counts it as the seventh of the 
sacraments, and regards it as instituted by Christ 
(Mark vi, 13), and introduced into practice by the 
Church (James v, I I). The oil may be consecrated by 
common priests, and is consecrated for every particular 
case. The anointment is generally performed by seven 
priests, blit it may validly be performed l)}' one. Those 
who are well enough go to church for the purpose of 
being anointed, after previously receiving absolution 
and the Eucharist. On the Thursday of the Passion 
'Week in particular, many sufferers go to church for 
that purpose. The aim of the rite is to aid the recovery 
of the sick person, as is seen from the form of prayer 
used in applying the oil : “ 0 holy Father, the physi- 
cian of our souls and bodies, who didst send thy only 
begotten Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, to heal all dis- 
eases, and to deliver us from death, heal this thy serv- 
ant M. from the bodily infirmity under which lie now 
labors, and raise him up by the grace of Christ” (Per- 


ceval, Roman Schism; King, Greek Church). In the 
Confession of Metrophanes Critopulos (ed. by Kimmel, 
Jena, 1850), p. 152, it is farther stated that, as many 
bodily diseases depend on sin, it is proper (fijXov) that 
prayer should be offered at the same time for the re- 
mission of the sin for which the disease is a penalty. 
He adds that this Euchelaion is not extreme unction 
(ovk laxcLTi) xp/erte). 1 1 can be administered whenever 
a person is ill, and hence to the same person many 
times. For a description of this ceremony as per- 
formed in the Greek Church, see Schmidt, Darstellune/ 
der fjriecliisch-russischen Kirche (Mentz, 1826, p. 220 sq.). 

VI. Extreme Unction and Protestantism. — As the an- 
cient Waldenses recognised the seven sacraments of 
the Roman Catholic Church, there is no doubt that 
they also accepted extreme unction. Wyclilfe doubt- 
ed many points of the doctrine of the Church of Rome 
concerning extreme unction, but was willing to regard 
it as a sacrament for the physical cure of the sick, pro- 
vided the priests could obtain this effect by their pray- 
er. Luther had no objection to the anointing of the 
sick if the priests prayed with them and exhorted 
them, but he denied the anointment to he a sacrament. 
Like Luther, all the other Protestant Churches reject 
extreme unction altogether. The 25th article of the 
Church of England puts it among the five so-called 
sacraments of Rome which “are not to be counted for 
sacraments of the Gospel.” Bishop Forbes (who rep- 
resents the Romanizing tendency in the Church of 
England) calls “the unction of the sick the lost pleiad 
of the Anglican firmament,” and recommends its res- 
toration (On 39 Articles, Art. xxv ad fin.). Among 
the High-Clnirch Lutherans there are also some who 
urge the introduction of the anointing of the sick. On 
the general subject, see, besides the authors already 
cited, Siegel, christl.-kirchl. Alterthumer , iv, 119 sq. ; 
Cramp, Text-book of Popery , eh. ix; Riddle, Christian 
Antiquities, bk. vii, ch. ii ; Burnet, On 39 Articles (Art. 
xxv) ; Ilerzog, Real-Encykl. x, 551 ; and the article 
Sacraments. 

Eyck, IIudert Van. See Painting. 

Eye a' yin, from tlie idea of flowing [see be- 

low] ; 6(f)S(i\p6c). In most languages this important 
organ is used by figurative application, as tho symbol 
of a large number of objects and ideas. In the East 
such applications of the word “ eye” have always been 
uncommonly numerous, and they -were so among the 
Hebrews. It may be serviceable to distinguish the 
following uses of the word, few of which are common 
among-us except so far as they have become so through 
the translation of the Bible. (See Gesenius, Ileb. Lex. ; 
Wemyss’s Symbol. Piet.) 

(1.) A fountain. This use of the word has already 
been indicated. See Ain. It probably originated 
from the eye being regarded as the fountain of tears. 

(2.) Color, as in the phrase “and the eye (color) of 
the manna was as the eye (color) of bdellium” (Num. 
xi, 7). This originated, perhaps, in the eye being the 
part of the body which exhibits different colors in dif- 
ferent persons. 

(3.) The surface, as “the surface (eve) of the land” 
(Exod. x, 5, 15 ; Numb, xxii, 5, 11) : the last is the pas- 
sage which affords most sanction to the notion that 
means in some places “face.” This is the sense 
which our own and other versions give to “ eye to eve” 
(Num. xiv, 14, etc.), translated “face to face.” The 
phrases are indeed equivalent in meaning; but we are 
not thence to conclude that the Hebrews meant “face” 
when they said “ eye,” but that they chose the opposi- 
tion of the eyes, instead of that of the faces, to express 
the general meaning. Hence, therefore, we may ob- 
ject to the extension of the signification in such pas- 
sages as 1 Sam. xvi, 12, ■where “beautiful eyes” (HE? 
is rendered “fair countenance.” 

(4.) It is also alleged that “between (or about) tho 


EYE 


427 


EYE 


eyes” means the forehead, in Exod. xiii, 9, 16, and the 
forepart of the head, in Deut. vi, 8 ; but the passages 
are sufficiently intelligible if understood to denote 
what tliey literally express ; and with reference to the 
last it may be remarked that there is hair about the 
eyes as well as on the head, the removal of which 
might well be interdicted as an act of lamentation. 

(5.) In Cant, iv, 9, “ eye” seems to be used poetical- 
ly for “look,” as is usual in most languages : “thou 
hast stolen my heart with one of tbv looks” (eyes). 

(6.) In Prov. xxiii, 31, the term “ eye” is applied to 
the beads or bubbles of wine, when poured out, but our 
version preserves the sense of “color.” 

(7.) To these some other phrases, requiring notice 
and explanation, may be added : 

“Before the eyes” of any one, meaning in his pres- 
ence, or, as we should say, “before his face” (Gen. 
xxiii, 11, 18 ; Exod. iv, 30). 

“In the eyes” of any one means what appears to 
be so or so in his individual judgment or opinion, and 
is equivalent to “ seeming” or “appearing” (Geu.xix, 

8; xxix, 20; 1 Sam. xii, 3). 

“To set the eyes” upon an)’ one is usually to re- 
gard him with favor (Gen. xliv, 21 ; Job xxiv, 23; Jer. 
xxxix, 12) ; but it occurs in a bad sense, as of looking 
with auger, in Amos ix, 8. But anger is more usually 
expressed by the contrary action of turning the eyes 
away. 

As many of the passions, such as envy, pride, pity, 
desire, are expressed by the eye, so, in the scriptural, 
style, they are often ascribed to that organ. Hence 
such phrases as “ evil eye” (Matt, xx, 15), “ bountiful in loc.). As a proverbial phrase, parallels have been 


showing his power. In like manner, in the same poet, 
“the eye of the army” stands for a good commander 
( Olymj ) . vi, 16). 

To keep anything as the apple or pupil of the eye 
is to preserve it with particular care (Deut. xxxii, 19; 
Zech. ii, 8). 

Eye-service is peculiar to slaves, who are governed 
by fear only, and is to be carefully guarded against by 
Christians /who ought to serve from a principle of duty 
and affection (Epli. vi, 6 ; Col. iii, 22). 

The expression in Psalm cxxiii, 2, “As the eyes of 
servants look unto the hands of their masters,” lias 
suggested a number of curious illustrations from Ori- 
ental history and customs, tending to show that mas- 
ters, especially when in the presence of others, are in 
the habit of communicating to their servants orders 
and intimations by certain motions of their hands, 
'which, although scarcely noticeable by other persons 
present, are clearly understood and promptly acted 
upon by the attendants. This custom keeps them with 
their attention bent upon the hand of their master, 
watching its slightest motions. (See Kitto’s Daily Bi- 
ble iilusira . on Prov. vi, 13.) 

The celebrated passage “ Why belioldest thou the 
mote that is in thy brother’s eve, and considerest not 
the beam that is in thine own eye” (Matt, vii, 3), has 
occasioned much waste of explanation. 1 1 seems much 
better to understand it as a hyperbolical proverbial ex- 
pression, than to contend that as Sokoq cannot literally 
mean “a beam,” it must here signify something else, 
a disease, a thorn, etc. (see Doddridge and Campbell, 


eye” (Prov. xxii, 9), “ haughty eyes” (Prov. vi, 17), 
“'wanton eyes” (Isa. iii, 16), “eyes full of adultery” 
(2 Pet. ii, 14), “the lust of the eyes” (1 John ii, 16). 
This last phrase is applied by some to lasciviousness, 
by others to covetousness ; but it is best to take the 
expression in the most extensive sense, as denoting a 
craving for the gay vanities of this life (comp. Ezek. 
xxiv, 25). In the same chapter of Ezekiel (ver. 16), 
“ the desire of thy eyes” is put not 
for the prophet's wife directly, as 
often understood, but for whatever 
is one’s greatest solace and delight, 
which in this case was the proph- 
et’s wife, but which in another case 
might have been something else. 

Whether the Hebrews attached 
the same ideas to the expression 
“evil eye” (Prov. xxiii, 6; xxviii, 

22) as is done by the Orientals at 
the present day is not easy to as- 
certain. It has been observed by 
Mr. Lane, and also by Mrs. Poole, 
that “ nothing distresses an Egyp- 
tian parent more than that which 
in other countries is considered to 
convey a compliment — admiration 
of the child. If any one is seen to stare at so as to envy 
the offspring, the mother hastily snatches it away, to 
perform some superstitious rite, as a charm against the 
supposed evil eye.” And Mr. Roberts says, among the 
Hindoos, the han-nuru , “ evil eye” of some people is be- 


produced abundantly from the Rabbins, from the fa- 
thers, and*from the classics. See Blind. 

Blinding tiie eves as a punishment or political 
disqualification was a heathen cruelty sometimes re- 
ferred to in the Scriptures, and is found exhibited on 
the Assyrian monuments. The custom of putting out 
the eyes of captives especially was very common in 
the East (I Sam. xi, 2). Thus Samson was deprived 



Ancient Assyrian King blinding a Prisoner. 

of sight by the Philistines (Judg. xvi, 21), and Zede- 
kiali bv the Chaldees (2 Kings xxv, 7). In 1820 Rae 
Wilson saw a number of individuals at Acre who were 
disfigured in various ways, by a hand amputated, an 
eye torn out , or a nose which had been split, or partly 


lieved to have a most baneful effect upon whatsoever or totally cut off. In 1826 two emirs had their eyes 


it shall be fixed. Those who are reputed to have such 
eyes are always avoided, and none but near relations 
will invite them to a feast. 

In Zech. iv, 10, the angels of the Lord are called 
“his eyes,” as being the executioners of his judg- 
ments, and watching and attending for his glory. 
From some such association of ideas, the favorite min- 
isters of state in the Persian monarchy were called 
“ the king’s eyes.” So, in Numb, x, 31, “ to be instead 
of eyes” is equivalent to being a prince, to rule and 
guide the people. This occurs also in the Greek poets, 
as in Pindar ( Olymj ) . ii, 10), where “ the eye of Sicilia” 
is given as a title to one of the chief men in Sicily, 


burnt out , and their tongues in part cut off, by the 
prince of Mount Lebanon, on account of their having 
been concerned in some disturbances against his gov- 
ernment. In some cases the Orientals deprive the 
criminal of the light of day by sealing up his eyes 
with some kind of adhesive plaster (Isa. xliv, 10). See 
Punishment. 

“Painting the eyes,” or rather the eyelids, is 
more than once alluded to in Scripture, although this 
scarcely appears in the Authorized Version, as our 
translators, unaware of the custom, usually render 
“eye” by “face,” although “eye” is still preserved in 
the" margin. So Jezebel “painted her eyes,” literally 


EYES 


428 


EYLERT 


“put her eyes in paint,” before she 
showed herself publicly (2 Kings ix, 

80). This action is forcibly expressed 
by Jeremiah (iv, 30), “Though thou 
rentest thine eyes with painting.” Eze- 
kiel (xxiii, 40) also represents this as a 
part of high dress : “ For whom thou 
didst wash thyself, paintedst thy eyes, 
and de.ckedst thyself with ornaments.” 

The custom is also, very possibly, al- 
luded to in Prov. vi, 25 : “Lust not af- 
ter her beauty in thine heart, neither 
let her take thee with her eyelids .” It 
certainly is the impression in Western 
Asia that this embellishment adds much 
to the languishing expression and se- 
ducement of the eyes, although Euro- 
peans tind some difficulty in apprecia- 
ting the beauty which the Orientals find 
in this adornment. (See Hartmann’s 
Hebrderinn , ii, 149 sq.) 

The following description of the proc- 
ess is from Lane’s Modern Egyptians (i, 

41-43): “ The eyes, with very few ex- 
ceptions, are black, large, and of a long 
almond form, with long and beautiful 
lashes, and an exquisitely soft, bewitch- 
ing expression : eyes more beautiful 
can hardly be conceived: their charm- 
ing effect is much heightened by the 
concealment of the other features (how- 
ever pleasing the latter may be), and is 
rendered still more striking by a prac- 
tice universal among the females of the higher and mid- | even with the remains of the black powder, have often 
die classes, and very common among those of the lower been found in the ancient tombs. I have two in my 
orders, which is that of blackening the edge of the eye- possession. But, in many cases, the ancient mode of 





,1 

k 


Hi 

Us 

3il 



£ 


1 | 

j 


V 

rl* i 



J 

u 

jjrs 



Ancient Egyptian Boxes or Bottles, holding the Kohl for staining the Eyelids. 
a. In the British Museum. The others are in the Museum of Almviek Castle, 
e, is the Bodkin for applying the Kohl. 


lids, both above and below the eyes, with a black pow- 





(J 


Modern Egyptian Lady with painted Eyes. (The vessel for 
holding the paint, and the probe for applying it, are from 
the Monuments.) 

dcr called hold. This is a collyrium, commonly com- 
posed of the smoke-black which is produced by burning 
a kind of libdm — an aromatic resin — a species of frank- 
incense, used, I am told, in preference to the better kind 
of frankincense, as being cheaper and equally good for 
the purpose. Kohl is also prepared of the smoke- 
black produced from burning the shells of almonds. 
These two kinds, though believed to be beneficial to 
the eves, are used merely for ornament ; but there are 
several kinds used for their real or supposed medical 
properties, particularly the powder of several kinds of 
lead ore, to which are often added sareocolla, long pep- 
per, sugar-candy, fine dust of a Venetian sequin, and 
sometimes powdered pearls. Antimony, it is said, was 
formerly used for painting the edges of the eyelids. 
The kohl is applied with a small probe of wood, ivo- 
ry, or silver, tapering towards the end, but blunt: this 
is moistened, sometimes with rose-water, then dipped 
in the powder and drawn along the edges of the eye- 
lids : it is called mirired ; and the glass vessel in which 
the kohl is kept, muldiolah. The custom of thus or- 
namenting the eyes prevailed among both scx.es in 
Egypt in very ancient times : this is shown by the 
sculptures and paintings in the temples and tombs of 
this country ; and kohl-vessels, with the probes, and 


ornamenting with the kohl was a little different from 
the modern. I have, however, seen this ancient mode 
practised in the present day in the neighborhood of 
Cairo, though I only remember to have noticed it in 
two instances. The same custom existed among the 
Greek ladies, and among the Jewish women in early 
times.” 

Sir J. G. Wilkinson alludes to this passage in Mr. 
Lane’s hook, and admits that the lengthened form of 
the ancient Egyptian eye, represented in the paint- 
ings, was probably produced by this means. “ Such,” 
he adds, “is the effect described by Juvenal {Sat. ii, 
93), Pliny {Ep. vi, 2), and other writers who notice 
the custom among the Homans. At Pome it was con- 
I sidered disgraceful for men to adopt it, as at present 
I in [most parts of] the East, except medicinally; but, 
if we may judge from the similarity of the eyes of men 
I and women in the paintings at Thebes, it appears to 
have been used by both sexes among the ancient 
; Egyptians. Many of the kohl-bottles have been found 
in the tombs, together with the bodkin used for apply- 
| ing the moistened powder. They are of various ma- 
terials, usually of stone, wood, or pottery ; sometimes 
i composed of two, sometimes of three or four separate 
| cells, apparently containing each a mixture, differing 
slightly in its quality and hue from the other three. 
Many were simple round tubes, vases, or small boxes; 
some were ornamented with the figure of an ape or 
monster, supposed to assist in holding the bottle be- 
tween his arms, while the lady dipped into it the pin 
with which she painted her eyes ; and others were in 
imitation of a column made of stone, or rich porcelain 
of the choicest manufacture” {Ancient Egyptians , iii, 
382). — Kitto, s. v. See Paint. 

Eylert, Ruxilemaxx Friedrich, was born at 
Hamm, in Prussian Westphalia, April 5, 1770. He 
studied theology at Halle, where he imbibed the mod- 
erate Rationalism of Niemeyer. In 1794 he became a 
preacher in his native city, in 180G court preacher at 
Potsdam, and after the death of Sack in 1817 he be- 


EYMERIC 


429 


EZEKIEL 


came superintendent, being at the same time appointed j 
minister of public instruction. In his later years his 
theology assumed a positively orthodox character, 
lie died Feb. 3, 1852. AVhile at court he was the friend 
and counsellor of king Frederick William III, over 
whom he exerted a great influence, especially in the 
matter of the Union and the Liturgy. See Prussia, 
Church of. He was a prolific writer. The most 
important of his works are, Betrachtangen ft. d. trost- 
vollen Wahrheiten des Christenthums , etc. (1804; 4th ed. 
183 4) : — Jlomilien it. d. Parabeln Jtsn (1806; 2d ed. 
1810) : — Predigten it. Beditrf nisse unsers Herzens (1805) : 
— Karcikterzugs Friedrich Wilhelm's III (1846-47). See 
Ntaer Xekrolog d. Deutschen (1852). — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. iv, 205. 

Eymeric, Nicolas, a Spanish inquisitor, was born 
about 1320 at Gerona. He entered the Dominican or- 
der in 1334, and was made inquisitor general of Ara- 
gon in 1336. His zeal was too great even for his su- 
periors, and he was removed from his office for a time, 
but after some years he returned to it. He was noted 
especially for his fierce pursuit of the partisans of 
Raymond Lull (q. v.). His Directorinm Inqnisitorum 
has been often reprinted (Rome, 1578, 1589, 1597, fol. ; 
Venice, 1591, 1607). He died Jan. 4, 1399. — Quetif et 
Echard, Script. Ord. Prced. i, 716 ; Hoefer, Noui\ Biog. 
Generate, xvi, 867. See Inquisition. 

Eyre, John, a minister of the Church of England, 
was born at Bodmin, Cornwall, January, 1754. He 
had a good elementary education, and at fifteen was 
bound apprentice to a clothier. Before the termination 
of his apprenticeship he embraced a religious life, and 
on returning to his father’s house he commenced hold- 
ing public religious meetings. His father was offend- 
ed at this, and drove him from his house. He was 
soon after admitted into lady Huntingdon’s College at 
Trevecea, and in 1778 lie was appointed minister to 
her chapel at Mulberry Gardens, London. In the 
Fame year he entered Emmanuel College, Oxford, and 
in December, 1779, he was made curate of Weston. 
In 1781 he became curate of St. Giles’s, Reading, and 
in 1782 of St. Luke’s, Chelsea. In 1785 he became 
pastor of the Episcopal chapel at Homertoji, and open- 
ed a school there, which became very successful. He 
was very popular as a preacher, free from bigotry, 
and active in all schemes of benevolence. The Evan- 
gelical Magazine and the London Missionary were orig- 
inated and for a time edited by him. From the prof- 
its of the Evangelical Magazine between twenty and 
thirty thousand pounds were paid out for the support 
of widows of ministers of various denominations. He 
was also one of the founders of the London Missionary 
Society (q. v.), of the scheme of “Village Itinerancy,” 
and of the Hackney Seminary for theological training. 
After a life of earnest piety and usefulness, he died 
March 28, 1803. — M orison, Missionary Fathers, p. 9. 

Eyster, Michael, a minister of the Lutheran 
Church, was born in York County, Fa., May 16, 1814. 
He was principally educated at the institutions in Get- 
tysburg, Pa., and was licensed to preach the Gospel 
in 1838. lie labored in the ministry successively at 
’Williamsburg, Greencastle, and Greensburg with great 
acceptance and success. He died Aug. 12, 1S53. He 
was a man of rare promise, and, although compara- 
tively young, had gained a strong hold upon the affec- 
tions of the Church. In the pulpit his power over an 
audience was very great. He usually made a deep 
and an abiding impression. There was an originality 
and a freshness in his discourses not always found at 
the present day. (M. L. S.) 

Ez. See Goat. 

E'zar, a less correct mode of Anglicizing (1 Chron. 
i, 38) the name Ezer (q. v.). 

Ez'bai [many Ez'bai, some Ezba'i\ (Heb. Ezbay' , 
in pause signif. uncertain; Sept. ’A£/3i 


v. r. 'A£o/3rt/, Vulg. Asbai), the father of Naarai, which 
latter was one of David’s thirty heroes (1 Chron. xi, 
37). B.C. 1046. In the parallel list (2 Sam. xxiii, 
35) the names are given “ Paarai the Arbite,” which 
Kennicott decides to be a corruption of the reading in 
Chronicles ( Dissertation , p. 209). 

Ez'bon (Heb. Etsbon', •jIIIX, perhaps working'), 
the name of two men. 

1. (Sept. 0arro/3«r, Vulg. Esebon.) The fourth son 
of the patriarch Gad (Gen. xlvi, 16) ; called also 
(Numb, xxvi, 16) Ozni (q. v.). B.C. 1856. 

2. Sept. ’Acrf/iwn v. r. Ecte/3wf, V ulg. Es- 

bon.) The first-named of the sons (? descendants) of 
Bela, the son of Benjamin, according to 1 Chron. vii, 
7. It is singular, however, that while Ezbon is no- 
where else mentioned among the sons of Bela, or Ben- 
jamin, he appears here in company with Iri, 

which is, nevertheless, not a Benjamite family, ac- 
cording to the other lists, but is found in company 
with Ezbon among the Gadite families, both in Gen. 
xlvi, 16 (Eri, ^V), and Numb, xxvi, 16. ’Were these 
two Gadite families incorporated into Benjamin after 
the slaughter mentioned Judg. xx? Possibly they 
were from Jabesh-Gilead (comp, xxi, 12-14). See 
Beciier. 1 Chron. vii, 2 seems to fix the date of the 
census as in king David’s time. B.C. cir. 1020. — 
Smith, s. v. 

Ezechi'as (’E^f/aac), a mode of Anglicizing, in 
the Apocrypha, the name of two men. 

1. The “son of Theoeanus,” and one of the two Is- 
raelitish leaders prominent in the reform under Ezra 
(1 Esdr. ix, 14) ; evidently the Jahaziah (q. v.) of the 
Heb. text (Ezra x, 15). 

2. One who is represented as having prayed for the 
chosen people in the time of Sennacherib (2 Esdr. vii, 
40), obviously referring to king Hezekiaii (q. v.) 

Ezeci'as (E&Ktag), one of those who supported 
Ezra on the right while expounding the law (1 Esdr. 
ix, 43), corresponding to the Hilkiaii (q. v.) of the 
parallel passage (Nell, viii, 4). 

Ezeki'as (E£e*<ar), a G necked form (Ecclus. 
xl viii, 17, 22; xlix, 4; 2 Macc. xv, 22; Matt, i, 9, 10) 
of the name of king Hezekiaii (q. v.). 

Eze'kiel (Ileb. Yechezkel', cither mean- 

ing Whom God will strengthen or God will prevail), the 
name of two men. 

1. (Sept. ’ E^f ;ci)\.) The head of the twentieth 
“course” of priests under David (1 Chron. xxiv, 16, 
where the name is Anglicized Jeiiezekel [q. v.]). 

2. (T e^iKUjX, Josephus ’le^tKigXoc, Ant. x, 5, 1.) 
One of the four greater prophets. See Fropiiet. 

1. There have been various fancies about his name: 

according to Abarbanel {Prof, in Ezech .), it implies 
“one who narrates the might of God to be displayed 
in the future,” and some (as Villalpandus, Prref. in 
Ezech. p. x) see a play on the word in the expressions 
nrpin, and (iii, 7, 8, 9), whence the groundless 

conjecture of Sanctius ( Prolegom . in Ezech. p. 2, n. 2) 
that the name was given him subsequently to the com- 
mencement of his career (Carpzov, Introduct. ad Libr . 
Bibl. Vet. Testam. ii, pt. iii, ch. v). 

2. He was the son of a priest named Buzi (i, 3), re- 
specting whom fresh conjectures have been recorded, 
although nothing is known about him (as archbishop 
Nevvcome observes) beyond the fact that he must have 
given his son a careful and learned education. The 
Rabbis bad a rule that every prophet in Scripture was 
also the son of a prophet, and hence (as R. David 
Kimchi in his Commentary) they absurdly identify 
Buzi with Jeremiah, who, they say, was so called be- 
cause he was rejected and despised. Another tradi- 
tion makes Ezekiel the servant of Jeremiah (Gregory 
Naz. Or. xlvii), and Jerome supposes that the proph- 
ets being contemporaries during a part of their mission 


EZEKIEL 


430 


EZEKIEL 


interchanged their prophecies, sending them respect- 
ively to Jerusalem and Chaldaca for mutual confirma- 
tion and encouragement, that the Jews might hear, as 
it were, a strophe and antistrophe of warning and 
promise, “ velut ae si duo cantores alter ad alterius 
vocem sese componcrent” (Calvin, Comment, ad Ezech. 
i, 2). Although it was only towards the very close 
of Jeremiah's lengthened office that Ezekiel received 
his commission, yet these suppositions are easily ac- 
counted for by the internal harmony between the two 
prophets, in proof of which Havernick ( Introduct . to 
Ezek.) quotes Ezek. xiii as compared with Jer. xxiii, 
9 sq., and Ezek. xxxiv with Jer. xxxiii, etc. This 
inner resemblance is the more striking from the other- 
wise wide difference of character which separates the 
two prophets; for the elegiac tenderness of Jeremiah 
is the re ilex of his gentle, calm, and introspective spir- 
it, wffiile Ezekiel, in that age when true prophets were 
so rare (Ezek. xii, 21 ; Lam. ii, 9), “comes forward with 
all abruptness and iron consistency. Has he to con- 
tend with a people of brazen front and unbending 
neck ? He possesses on his own part an unbending 
nature, opposing the evil with an unflinching spirit of 
boldness, with words full of consuming tire” (Haver- 
nick, Introth , transl. by Rev. F. W. Gotch in Jour, of 
Sac. Lit. i, 23). 

3. Unlike his predecessor in the prophetic office, 
who gives us the amplest details of his personal histo- 
ry, Ezekiel rarely alludes to the facts of his owm life, 
and we have to complete the imperfect picture bv the 
colors of late and dubious tradition. He was taken 
captive from a place called Sarera (Ik yj/C Snpi/p«, Js- 
idor. De Vit. et Ob. Sand. 39 ; Epiphnn.Zte 17/. et Mart, 
Prophet, ix, ap. Carpzov) in the captivity (or transmi- 
gration, as Jerome more accurately prefers to render 
r •!?;», i, 2) of Jehoiachin (not Jehoiakim, as Josephus 
[.!«/. x, 6. 3] states, probably by a slip of memory) 
with other distinguished exiles (2 Kings xxiv, 15) 
eleven years before the destruction of Jerusalem. B.C. 
598. Josephus (l. c.) says that this removal happened 
when he was a bov, and although we cannot consider 
the assertion to be refuted by Hiivernick’s argument 
from the matured, vigorous, priestly character of his 
w ritings, and feel still less inclined to say that he had 
“ undoubted! y” exercised for some considerable time 
the function of a priest, yet the statement is question- 
able, because it is improbable (as Havernick also points 
oul) that Ezekiel long survived the twenty-seventh 
year of his exile (xxix, 17), so that, if Josephus be 
correct, lie must have died very young. lie was a 
member of a community of Jewish exiles who settled 
on the hanks of the Chebar, a “river” or stream of 
Babylonia, which is sometimes taken to he the Kha- 
bour, but which the latest investigators suppose to he 
the Nahr Malclia, or royal canal of Nebuchadnezzar. 
See CTiEr.AU. The actual name of the spot where he 
resided was Tel-Abib (2"2X Pri, Vulg. “acervus no- 
varnm frnguin,” Sept, periwpog icai 7npii)\6ov (?). Syr. 
“the hill of grief”), a name which Jerome, as usual, 
allegorizes ; it is thought by Michaelis to be the same 
as Thallaba in D’Anville’s map (Rosenmuller, Bibl. 
Gcorj. ii, 188). It was hv this river “in the land of 
the Chahlaxins” that God’s message first reached him 
(i, 3); the Chaldee version, however, interpolates the 
w-ords “in the land [of Israel: and again a second 
time he spake to him in the land] of the Chaldeans,” 
because the Jews had a notion that the Shechinah 
could iiot overshadow a prophet out of the Holy Land. 
Hence R. Jarelii thinks that chap, xvii was Ezekiel’s 
first prophecy, and was uttered before the captivity, a 
view which he supports bv the Hebrew idiom FPil »"nn 
(A.Y. “came expressly”) in i, 3. R. Kimchi, how- 
ever, makes an exception to the rule in case the ‘proph- 
ecy was inspired in some pure and quiet spot like a 
river’s bank (eoinp. Rsa. exxxvii, 1). Ilis call took 
place “in the fifth year of king Jchoiaehin’s captiv- 


ity,” B.C. 594 (i, 2), “in the thirtieth year, in the 
fourth month.” The latter expression is very uncer- 
tain. Most commentators (see Roli Synopsis, in loc.) 
take it to mean the thirtieth year of his age (so Carp- 
zov, Appar. Crit. p. 201 ; Eairbairn, Did. s. v., and 
others), the recognised period for assuming full priest- 
ly functions (Numb, iv, 23, SO). Origen, following 
this assumption, makes the prophet a type of Christ, 
to wdiom also “the heavens were opened” when he 
was baptized in Jordan. But, as Pradus argues, such 
a computation would be unusual, and would not be 
sufficiently important or w T ell known as a mark of gen- 
uineness, and would require some more definite addi- 
tion. Moreover, the statute referred to required an 
age of at least thirty full years. The Chaluee para- 
phrase by Jonah ben-Uzziel has “thirty years after 
Hilkiah, the high-priest, had found the book of the law 
in the sanctuary, in the vestibule under the porch, at 
midnight, after the setting of the moon, in the days of 
Josiah, etc., in the month Tammuz, in the fifth day 
of the month” (comp. 2 Kings xxii), i. e. the eighteenth 
of Josiali, or B.C. G23. This view is adopted by Je- 
rome, Usher, Iliiverniek, etc., and is, on the whole, 
the most probable, although it has been objected to 
its adoption that, had this been a recognised a j ra, we 
should have found traces of it elsewdiere, whereas even 
Ezekiel never refers to it again. But, w hatever start- 
ing-point we adopt, this will still remain an isolated 
date in Ezekiel ; and the example of Jeremiah, who 
computes the years of his prophetical ministrations 
from the reform in the days of Josiah (Jer. xxv, 3; 
comp. 2 Chron. xxiv, 3), warrants the supposition that 
his contemporary and parallel w ould note his own call 
from a similar religious epoch, the renewal of the pass- 
over in the same reign (2 Kings xxiii, 23). There 
are similar and more forcible objections to its being 
the* thirtieth year from the jubilee, as Hitzig supposes, 
following many of the early commentators. It has 
been proposed by Scaliger (De Emcndatione Temporum , 
Lngd. Bat. 3598, p. 374) that it was the thirtieth year 
frim the new r mra of Nabopolassar, father of Nebu- 
chadnezzar, who began to reign B.C. 625, an inter- 
pretation adopted by Eiehhorn, Pradus, Kosenmiiller, 
Henderson, etc. The use of this Chaldee epoch is the 
more appropriate as the prophet wrote in Babylonia, 
and he gives a Jew ish chronology in ver. 2. Compare 
the notes of time in Dan. ii, 1 ; vii, 1 ; Ezra vii, 7 ; Neh. 
ii, 1 ; v, 14. But this would make the date in question 
B.C. 59G instead of 594. Moreover, as Nabopolassar 
was long since dead, the reckoning would doubtless 
have been by the years of the reigning monarch, as in 
the other passages cited. The decision of the ques- 
tion is the less important, because in all other places 
Ezekiel dates from the year of Jehoiachin ’s captivity 
(xxix, 17 ; xxx, 20, ct passim). It appears that the 
call of Ezekiel to the prophetic office w r as connected 
with the communication of Jeremiah’s predictions to 
Babylon (Jer. Ii, 59), which took place in the earlier 
part of the same year (Havernick, p. ix). We learn 
from an incidental allusion (xxiv, 18) — the only refer- 
ence which he makes to liis personal history — that he 
was married, and had a house (viii, 1) in his plaee of 
exile, and lost his w ife by a sudden and unforeseen 
stroke. He lived in the highest consideration among 
his companions in exile, and their elders consulted him 
on all occasions (viii, 1; xi, 25; xiv, 1; xx, 1, etc.), 
because in his united office of priest and prophet he 
w r as a living witness to “them of the captivity” that 
God had not abandoned them (comp. Yitringa, Synag. 
Vet. p. 332). There seems to be little ground for Thc- 
odoret’s supposition that he was a Nazaritc. The last 
date he mentions is the twenty-seventh year of the 
captivity (xxix, 17), so that his mission extended over 
twciitv-two years, during part of which period Daniel 
was probably living, and already famous (Ezek. xiv, 
14; xx viii, 3). 

Tradition ascribes various miracles to him, as, for 


EZEKIEL 


431 


instance, escaping from his enemies by walking dry- 
shod across the Chebar ; feeding the famished people 
with a miraculous draught of fishes, etc. He is said 
to have been murdered in Babylon by some Jewish 
prince (? b ijyovptvog tov Xaov , called in the Homan 
martyr ology for vi Id. Apr. “judex populi,” Carpzov. 
Introd. 1. c.), whom he had convicted of idolatry ; and 
to have been buried in a double tomb (<nnjXa'iov h- 
ttXovv), the tomb of Shem and Arphaxad, on the banks 
of the Euphrates (Epiphan. De Yit. el Mort. Prophet.'). 
The tomb, said to have been built by Jehoiachin, was 
shown a few days’ journey from Bagdad (Menasse ben- 
Israel, De Resurrec. Mort. p. 23), and was called “the 
abode of elegance” (habitaculum elegantne). A lamp 
was kept there continually burning, and the auto- 
graph copy of the prophecies was said to be there pre- 
served. This tomb is mentioned by Pietro de la Valle, 
and fully described in the Itinerary of It. Benjamin of 
Tudela (Ilottinger, Thes. Phil. II, i, 3; Cippi Hebraic ?, 
p. 82). His tomb is still pointed out in the vicinity 
of Babylon (Layard’s Nineveh and Babylon , p. 427), at 
a place called Keffil ; and Mr. Loftus is inclined to ac- 



Keffil and the Tomb of Ezekiel. 


cept the tradition which assigns this as the resting- 
place of the prophet’s remains ( Chaldcea , p. 35). The 
spire is the frustum of an elongated cone, tapering to 
a blunted top by a succession of steps, and peculiarly 
ornamented (ib.). A curious conjecture (discredited 
by Clemens Alexandrinus i], but considered 

not impossible by Selden [Syntagm. de. Diis Syr. ii, 
120], Meyer, and others) identifies him with “Nazara- 
tus the Assyrian,” the teacher of Pythagoras. We 
need hardly mention the ridiculous suppositions that 
he is identical with Zoroaster, or with the 'E1T kujXoq 
b 7 mv \ovciaKijJv rpayiociion 7rou]T})c (Clem. Alexand. 
Strom, i ; Euseb. Pray. Evang. ix, 28, 29), who wrote a 
play on the Exodus, called ’E^ayioyfj (Fabricius, Bibl. 
Gncc. ii, 19). This Ezekiel lived B.C. 40 (Sixt. Sen. 
Bibl. Sanct. iv, 235), or later. 

4. But, as Havernick remarks, “ by the side of the 
scattered data of his external life, those of his internal 
life appear so much the richer.” We have already 
noticed his stern and inflexible energy of will and 
character; and we also observe a devoted adherence 
to the rites and ceremonies of his national religion. 
Ezekiel is no cosmopolite, but displays everywhere the 
peculiar tendencies of a Hebrew educated under Le- 
vitical training. The priestly bias is always visible, 
especially in chaps, viii-xi, xl-xlviii, and in iv, 13 sq. ; 
xx, 12 sq. ; xxii, 8, etc. It is strange of De Wettc 
and Gesenius to attribute this to a “contracted spirit- 
uality,” and of Ewald to see in it “a one-sided concep- 
tion of antiquity which he obtained merely from books 
and traditions,” and “a depression of spirit (!) en- 
hanced by the long continuance of the banishment and 
bondage of the people” (Haverniek’s Introd.). It was 
surely this very. intensity of patriotic loyalty to a sys- 
tem whose partial suspension lie both predicted and 
survived, which cheered the exiles with the confidence 
of his hopes in the future, and tended to preserve their 
decaying nationality. Mr. F. Newman is even more 
contemptuous than the German critics. “The writ- 


EZEKIEL, BOOK OF 

ings of Ezekiel,” he says ( Ilebr . Monarchy , p. 330, 2d 
ed.), “ painfully show the growth of what is merely 
visionary, and an increasing value of hard sacerdotal- 
ism;” and he speaks of the “heavy materialism” of 
Ezekiel’s Temple, with its priests, sacrifices, etc., as 
“ tedious and unedifying as Leviticus itself.” His own 
remark that Ezekiel’s predictions “so kept alive in 
the minds of the next generation a belief in certain re- 
turn from captivity, as to have tended exceedingly to- 
wards the result,” is a sufficient refutation of such 
criticisms. 

We may also note in Ezekiel the absorbing recog- 
nition of his high calling which enabled him cheerful- 
ly to endure any deprivation or misery (except indeed 
cercmonial pollution, from which he shrinks with char- 
acteristic loathing, iv, 14), if thereby he may give any 
warning or lesson to his people (iv ; xxiv, 15, 16, etc.), 
whom he so ardently loved (ix, 8; xi, 13). On one 
occasion, and on one only, the feelings of the man 
burst, in one single expression, through the self-devo- 
tion of'the prophet ; and v r bile even then his obedience 
is unwavering, yet the inexpressible depth of submis- 
sive pathos in the brief words which tell how ii. one 
da}" “ the desire of his eyes was taken from him” 
(xxiv, 15-18), shows what well-springs of the tender- 
est human emotion were concealed under his uncom- 
promising opposition to every form of sin. — Smith, s. 
v. See Friderici, Disputatio de Ezechiele (Lips. 1719) ; 
Verpoortcn, De scriptis Ezechielis (in his Dissertc. p. 
107) ; Alexander, Ilist. Ecclesias . iii, 560 ; Ivitto, Jour. 
Sac. Lit. i ; Williams, Characters ofO. T. p. 288. 

EZEKIEL, Book of. This, both in the Hebrew 
and Alexandrian canons, is placed next to the writings 
of ’Jeremiah. 

I. Order of Contents. — The central point of Ezekiel’s 
predictions is the destruction of Jerusalem. Previ- 
ously to this catastrophe his chief object is to call to 
repentance those who were living in careless security ; 
to warn them against indulging in blind confidence, 
that by the. help of the Egyptians (Ezek. xvii, 15-17 ; 
comp.Jer. xxxvii, 7) the Babylonian yoke would be 
shaken off; and to assure them that the destruction of 
their city and Temple was inevitable and fast ap- 
proaching. After this event his principal care is to 
console the captives by promises of future deliverance 
and return to their own land, and to encourage them 
by assurances of future blessings. His predictions 
against foreign nations stand between these two great 
divisions, and were for the most part uttered during 
the interval of suspense between the divine intimation 
that Nebuchadnezzar was besieging Jerusalem (chap, 
xxiv, 2) and the arrival of the news that he had taken 
it (eh. xxxiii, 21). The predictions are evidently ar- 
ranged on a plan corresponding with these the chief 
subjects of them, and the time of their utterance is so 
frequently noted that there is little difficulty in ascer- 
taining their chronological order. This order is fol- 
lowed throughout, except in the middle portion relat- 
ing to foreign nations, where it is in some instances 
departed from to secure greater unity of subject (e. g. 
ch. xxix, 17). The want of exact chronological order 
in this portion of the book has led to various hypoth- 
eses respecting the manner in which the collection of 
the separate predictions w r as originally made. Jahn 
(Introd. p. 356) supposes that the predictions against 
foreign nations were placed in their present position 
by some transcriber in the order in which they hap- 
pened to come into his hands, and that he through for- 
getfulness omitted chaps, xxxv, xxxviii, and xxxix. 
Eichhorn ( Einleit . iii, 193) thinks it probable that the 
predictions were written on several greater or smaller 
rolls, which were put together in their present form 
without sufficient regard to chronological accuracy. 
Bertholdt (Einleit. iv, 1487, quoted by llavcrniek) sup- 
poses that the collector of the whole book found two 
smaller collections already in existence (chaps, xxv- 
xxxii. and xxxiii, 21-xxxix), and that he arranged 


432 


EZEKIEL, BOOK OF 


EZEKIEL, BOOK OF 

the other predictions chronologically. All such hy- 
potheses belong, as Havernick remarks, to a former 
age of criticism. 

The arrangement, by whomsoever made, is very evi- 
dently intentional, and it seems on many accounts most 
probable that it was made by Ezekiel himself. This 
is maintained by Ilavernick on the following grounds : 
(1.) The arrangement proceeds throughout on a plan 
corresponding with the subjects of the predictions. In 
those against foreign nations chronological is united [ 
with material order, whilst in those which relate to Is- | 
racl the order of time is strictly followed. (2.) The i 
predictions stand in such connection with eacli other 
that every part has reference to what has preceded it. j 
(30 Hi storieal notices are occasionally appended to the . 
predictions, which would scarcely be done by a trans- 
criber; e. g. the notice respecting himself in chaps, 
xi, xxiv, xxv, and the close of ch. xix, which Hiiver- 
nick translates “This is a lamentation and was for a 
lamentation.” The whole book is divided by Haver- 
nick into nine sections, as follows : 

1. Ezekiel’s call to the prophetic office (ch. i-iii, 15). 

2. The general carrying out of the commission, in a 
scries of symbolical representations and particular pre- 
dictions foretelling the approaching destruction of Ju- 
dah and Jerusalem (ch. iii, lG-vii). 

3. The rejection of tho people because of their idol- 
atrous worship ; a series of visions presented to the 
prophet a year and two months later than the former, 
in which he is shown the Temple polluted b}' - the wor- 
ship of Adonis, the consequent judgment on the in- 
habitants of Jerusalem and on the priests, and closing 
with promises of happier times and a purer wosrliip 
(ch. viii-xi). 

4. The sins of the people rebuked in detail ; a scries 
of reproofs and warnings directed especially against 
the particular errors and prejudices then prevalent 
amongst his contemporaries (ch. xii-xix). 

5. The nature of the judgment, and the gnilt which 
caused it ; another series of warnings delivered about 
a year later, announcing the coming judgments to be 
yet nearer (eb. xx-xxiii). 

G. The meaning of the now commencing punish- 
ment ; predictions uttered two years and five months 
later, when Jerusalem was besieged, announcing to the 
captives that very day as the commencement of the 
siege (comp. 2 Kings xxv, 1), and assuring them of the 
complete overthrow of the city (ch. xxiv). 

7. God’s judgment denounced on seven heathen na- 
tions (Ammon, xxv, 1-7 ; Moab, 8-11; Edom, 12-14; 
the Philistines, 15-17 ; Tyre, xxvi-xxviii, 19 ; Sidon, 
20-24 ; Egypt, xxix-xxxii). 

8. After the destruction of Jerusalem a prophetic 
representation of the triumph of Israel and of the king- 
dom of God oil earth (ch. xxxiii-xxxix). 

9. The glorious consummation; a symbolic repre- 
sentation of Messianic times, and of the establishment 
and prosperity of the kingdom of God (ch. xl-xlviii). 
See § 3 below. 

I T. Genu 'neness and Completeness. — According to Jew- 
ish tradition, doubts were entertained as to the canon- 
ieity of l lie book on the ground of its containing some 
apparent contradictions to the law, as well as because 
of the obscurity of many of its visions. These, how- 
ever, were removed, it is said, by Ibibbi Hananias, 
who wrote a commentary on the book, in which all 
these difficulties were satisfactorily solved {Misehna, 
ed. Surenhusins, 1 'reef, ad Part, iv ; Carpzov, Introd . 
pt. iii, p. 215) ; but still, on account of their obscurity, 
the visions at the beginning and close of the book were 
forbidden to be read by those who were under thirty 
years of age (Carpzov, p. 212). Some Continental crit- 
ics of the last century have impugned the canonieity 
of the last nine chapters, and have attributed thfcm to 
some Samaritan or Hebrew who had returned in later 
times to the land of Judtea (Ocder, Frege UntersucJmng 
uber cinige Bucher des A. T., llal. Sax. 1771; Vogel, 


in his remarks on the above ; and Corrodi, Beleuchtung 
des Jiidisch. und Christl. Bibelkanons , pt. i, p. 105, quoted 
by liosennniller, Schol. in Kzech. ad e. xl). These ob- 
jections have been fully answered by Eiehhorn {Ein« 
leitung , iii, 203), Jalin ( Introd . in Lib. Sac. 1'. T .. p. 35G), 
and others. Jalm has also taken notice of and an- 
swered some objections raised by an anonymous writer 
in the Monthly Magazine (1798), to the canonieity of 
chaps, xxv-xxxii, xxxv, xxxvi, xxxviii, xxxix. A 
translation of Jahn’s arguments will he found in 
Horne’s Introd. iv, 222, old cd. These and similar ob- 
jections have so little weight or probability that we 
shall content ourselves with quoting the general re- 
mark of Gesenius in reference to the whole of Ezekiel’s 
writings : “This book belongs to that not very numer- 
ous class, which, from beginning to end, maintains, by 
means of favorite expressions and peculiar phrases, 
such a oneness of tone as by that circumstance alone 
to prevent any suspicion that separate portions of it 
are not genuine” ( Geschichte cler Ileb. Spr. p. 35). The 
canonieity of the book of Ezekiel in general is satis- 
factorily established by Jewish and Christian authori- 
ties. There is, indeed, no explicit reference to it, or 
quotation from it, in the New Testament. Eiehhorn 
( Einleitung , p. 218) mentions the following passages as 
having apparently a reference to this book : Horn, ii, 
24; comp. Ezek. xxxvi, 21: Horn, x, 5; Gal. iii, 12; 
comp. Ezck. xx, 11 : 2 Pet. iii, 4 ; comp. Ezek. xii, 22 ; 
but none of these are quotations. The closing visions 
of Ezekiel are clearly referred to, though not quoted, 
in the last chapters of the Apocalypse. The prophet 
Ezekiel is distinctly referred to by the son of Sirach 
(Eeclus. xlix, 8), and b} r Josephus {Ant. x, 5, 1 ; G, 3 ; 
7, 2 ; 8, 2). The book of Ezekiel is also mentioned as 
forming part of the canon in the catalogues of JMclito 
(Eusebius, Hist. Ecclcs. iv, 2G), Origen (apud Euseb. 1. 

| c. vi, 25), Jerome {Prohgus Gabatus\ and the Talmud 
| (Eiehhorn, iii, 218 ; i, 12G-137). 

One of the passages of Josephus to which we have 
referred has occasioned much controversy and many 
conjectures, because be seems to affirm that Ezekiel 
had written two books of prophecies (.4nf. x, 5, 1). 
According to the ordinary and, indeed, as it would 
seem, necessary interpretation of this passage, Ezekiel 
| was the first who wrote two books respecting the Baby- 
lonian captivity. The question then arises, Has one 
of his books been lost, or are the two now joined into 
one ? The former supposition has been maintained by 
some in order to account for certain professed quota- 
tions from the prophet Ezekiel of passages which are 
! not found in his writings at present. Thus Clemens 
i Iiomanus (1 Ep. ad Cor. c. 8) refers to such a passage, 
which is given more at length by Clemens Alexand. 
( Pfcdagog . i, 10). Thus, again, Tertullian {Be carne 
, Christi , c. 23, p. 394, cd. Semler) says, “ Legimus apud 
I Ezcchiekm de vacca ilia qurc peperit et non peperit.” 
Other instances may be. seen in Fabrieius {Codex Pseud- 
j epigraphus V. T., 2d ed., p. 1118), and quoted from him 
by Carpzov {Introd. pt. iii, p. 208). Both these critics, 
however, agree that the most probable explanation of 
I such references is that they were derived from Jewish 
tradition. The latter hypothesis, that our present book 
| was originall}’ two, the second containing the last nine 
| chapters, has received the support of very many critics 
i (see Le Moyne, Varia Sacra } ii, 832; Carpzov, Introd. 
p. 208). This view, however, is not without serious 
difficulties. There is no evidence that the book, as at 
present existing, was ever considered two ; and the 
testimony of Josephus himself, that only twenty-two 
I books were received as sacred {Contr. Apion. i, 8), ap- 
! pears quite opposed to such a supposition, since in 
whatever way the division of the Old Testament into 
twenty-two books is made there cannot be two out of 
the number left for Ezekiel. Eiehhorn ( Einleitung , iii, 
14G) maintains that it is Jeremiah of whom Josephus 
1 speaks, a position to which we should at once assent 
| if we could with him consider the words cq wpo/roc as 


EZEKIEL, BOOK OF 433 EZEKIEL, BOOK OF 


equivalent to o cte TrpwTog. If this is what Josephus 
meant, we must suppose some corruption of his text. 
Becker omits the o£. 

III. Interpretation. — The latter part of the book has 
always been regarded as very obscure. It will be 
seen, by the brief notices of the contents given above, 
that Hiivernick considers the whole to relate to Mes- 
sianic times. The predictions respecting Gog (chaps, 
xxxviii, xxxix) have been referred by some to Anti- 
oehus Epiphanes ; by others to Cambyses, to the Chal- 
daeans, the Scythians, the Turks, etc. Mr. Granville 
Penn has interpreted them of Napoleon and the French 
( The Prophecy of Ezekiel concerning Cogue , etc., 1815). 
See Gog. The description of the Temple (chaps, xl- 
xliii) has been thought by many to contain an account 
of what Solomon’s Temple was ; b}' others, of what the 
second Temple should be. (See Ilaverniek’s Commen - 
tar iiber Ezechiel , Erlangen, 1843.) The best interpre- 
tation of these predictions is to be found in that of the 
similar ones of the Apocalypse. See Temple. 

V r e cannot now enter into the difficulties of these 
or other chapters (for which we must refer to some of 
the commentaries mentioned below); but we will enu- 
merate, following Fairbairn, the four main lines of in- 
terpretation, viz., 1. The Historico-literal, adopted by 
Yillalpandus, Grotius, Lowth, etc., who make them a 
prosaic description intended to preserve the memory 
of Solomon’s Temple. 2. The Historico-ideal (of Eich- 
horn, Dathe, etc.), which reduces them “ to a sort of 
vague and well-meaning announcement of future 
good.” 3. The Jewish-carnal (of Lightfoot, Hoffman, 
etc.), which maintains that their outline was actually 
adopted by the exiles. 4. The Christian-spiritual (or 
Messianic), followed by Luther, Calvin, Cocceius, and 
most modern commentators, which makes them “a 
grand complicated sj’-mbol of the good God had in re- 
serve for his Church.” Rosenmiiller, who disapproves 
alike of the literalism of Grotius, and the arbitrary, 
ambiguous allegorizing of others, remarks (Schol. in 
xxviii, 2G) that it seems a useless task to attempt to 
refer these prophecies to distinct events, or to refer 
their poetical descriptions to naked fact. It is most 
safe to regard them, in accordance with the nature of 
allegorical representations and visions in general, as 
having a literal or material basis in the near past or 
future (i.e. recollections of Solomon’s Temple, and pre- 
vision of hostile powers), which is made the vehicle of 
a higher and spiritual import setting forth the distant 
grandeur, ghny, and triumph of the kingdom of God. 
See Double Sense (of Prophecy). 

IV. Style. — The depth of Ezekiel’s matter , and the 
marvellous nature of his visions, make him occasion- 
ally obscure. Hence his prophecy was placed by the 
Jews among the *pTDa (treasures), those portions of 
Scripture which (like the early part of Genesis, and the 
Canticles) were not allowed to be read till the age of 
thirty (Jerome, Ep. ad Eustach. ; Origen, Proem, homil. 
iv, in Cantic. ; Hottinger, Thes. Phil, ii, 1, 3). Hence 
Jerome compares the “ inextrieabilis error” of his 
writings to Virgil’s labyrinth ( u Oceanus Scriptura- 
rum, mystcriorumque Dei labyrinthus”), and also to 
the Catacombs. The Jews classed him in the very 
highest rank of prophets. Gregory Naz. (Or. 23) be- 
stows the loftiest encomiums upon him. Isidore ( De 
vit. et ob. Sanct. 39) makes him a type of Christ from 
the title “Soil of Man,” but that is- equally applied to 
Daniel (viii, 17). Other similar testimonies are quoted 
by Carpzov ( Introd . ii, 193 sq.). The Sanhedrim is 
said to have hesitated long whether his book should 
form part of the canon, from the occasional obscurity, 
and from the supposed contradiction of xviii, 20 to 
Exod. xx, 5 ; xxxiv, 7 ; Jer. xxxii, 18. But, in point 
of fact, these apparent oppositions are the mere ex- 
pression of truths eomplementar)’ - to each other, as 
Moses himself might have taught them (l)eut. xxiv, 
1<3). Although, generally speaking, comments on this 

III. — F k 


book were forbidden, a certain R.Nananias undertook 
to reconcile the supposed differences. (Spinoza, Tract. 
Theol. Polit. ii, 27, partly from these considerations, 
infers that the present book is made up of mere diro- 
i Tpacrfidna , but his argument from its commencing 
with a 1, and from the expression in i, 3 above al- 
luded to, hardly needs refutation.) 

That Ezekiel was a poet of no mean order is ac« 
knowledged by almost all critics (Lowth, De sacra Po- 
esi IIebra>o7'um, ed. J. D. Miehaelis, Gottingen, 1770, p. 
431). Miehaelis and Dathe are the only critics of any 
eminence (as far as we know) who think slightingly 
of his poetical genius. The question is altogether one 
of taste, and has, we imagine, been decided by com- 
mon consent against Miehaelis. He remarks more 
truly that Ezekiel lived at a period when the Hebrew 
language was declining in purity, when the silver age 
was succeeding to the golden one. It is, indeed, to the 
matter rather than the language of Ezekiel that we 
are to look for evidence of poetic genius. His style is 
often simply didactic, and he abounds in peculiarities 
of expression, Aramaisms, and grammatical anoma- 
lies which, while they give individuality to his writ-' 
ings, plainly evince the decline of the language in 
which lie wrote. An extended account of such pecu- 
liarities is given by Eiehhorn (Einleitung in das A. T. 
iii, 19G) and Gesenius ( Geschichte der lleb. Sprache u. 
Schiift, p. 35). Among the most splendid passages 
are ch. i (called by the Rabbis FD^'T;:), the prophecy 
against Tyrus (ch. xxvi-xxviii), that against Assyr ; a, 
“the noblest monument of Eastern history” (ch. xxxi), 
and ch. viii, the account of what he saw in the Temple 
porch, 

“When, by the vision led, 

His eye surveyed the dark idolatries 
Of alienated Judali.” — Milton, Par. Lost, i. 

— Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

V. Commentaries. — The following are special exe- 
getical works on the entire book ; the most important 
have an asterisk (*) prefixed: Origen, Commentarii , 
etc. (in Opera, iii, 351 sq., 40G); Ephraem Syrus, Ex- 
planutio (in Opera, v, 165) ; Gregory Nazianzen, Sig- 
nificatio (in Opera Spuria, i, 870); Jerome, Commenta- 
rii, etc. (in Opera, v) ; Thcodoret, Inteipretatio (in Op- 
era, II, ii ; also Rome, 3662, fob); Gregory the Great, 
Ilomilke (in Opera, i, 1174) ; Raban, Commentarii (in 
Opera ) ; Rupert, In Ezech. (in Opera , p. 489) ; (E co- 
lam padius, Commentarius (Basil. 1534, ito; 1543, 8vo; 
Argent. 1G34, 4to); Strigel, Sckolia (Lips. 3539, 15G4, 
1575, 1579, Svo); Calvin, Prcelectiones (Geneva, 1565, 
8vo, and since : in French, Genev. 15G5, fob ; in Eng- 
lish, Edinb. 1849-50, 2 vols, Svo) ; Junius, Commentaria 
(Genev. 1G09, fob ; 1610, Svo); Maldonatus, In Ezech. 
(in his Commentarii , p. 542) ; Selnecker, Auslegung 
(Lips. 15G7, 4to); Pinto, Commentarius (Salam. 15G8, 
fob, and later); Lavater, Commentarii (Geneva, 3571, 
fob) ; Serranus, Commentarius (Antw. 1572, 1607, fob) ; 
Heilbrunner, Qucestiones (Laving. 1587, 8vo) ; Abraham 
ben-Mose, Ubersetzung (Prag. 1602, 4to); *Pradus and 
Villalpandus, Explanationes (Roma?, 3605, 3 vols. fol.); 
Polan, Commentaria (Geneva, 1609, fol. ; 1610, 8vo); 
h Lapide, In Ezech. (in his Commentaria ); Sanetius, 
Commentarius (Lugd. 3612, 1619, fol.); Brandmiiller, 
Commentarius (Basil, 1621, 4to); *Greenhill, Exposition 
(London, 1645-67, 5 vols. 4to ; also 1827, 1863, Svo ; in 
Dutch, Hague, 1732-6, 4 vols. 4to) ; Cocceius, Commen- 
tarius (Leyd. 1668, 4to; Amst. 1700, fob); Hennisch, 
Claris (Rotenburg, 3681; Lips. 1697, 4to); Petersen, 
Zeugniss (Frcft. 1719, 4to) ; * Lowth, Commentary (Lon- 
don, 1723, 4to) ; *Starck, Commentarius (Frcft. ad M. 
1731, 4to) ; Vogel, Weisagungen (Hal. 1772, Svo); Vol- 
borth, Anmerk. (Gott. 1787, Svo) ; Newcome, Explana- 
tion (Dub. 1788, Svo, and since); Vcnema, Lectiones 
(Leov. 1790, 4 to) ; ^Horsley, Notes (in Bib. Criticism, ii, 
65); Hanker, Consideration (in JForih, ix, 719); * Ro- 
sen miiller, Scholia (Lpz. Svo, 1808-10, 2 vols. ; also 


EZEL 


434 


EZNITE 


1826); Rhesa, Observations (Regiom.1819, 4to) ; Stern, I 
etc. (Vienna, 1842, 8vo); *Havernick, Com- 
ments' (Erlangen, 1843, Svo); *Umbreit, Commentar 
(Hamb. 1843,-Svo); Macfarlan, Version (London, 1845, 1 
8vo) ; *Hitzig, Erklarung (in the Kurtz. Ereget. Ildb., 
Lpz. 1847, Svo); *Fairbairn, Exposition (Edinb. 1851, 
1855, 8vo) ; * Henderson, Commentary (London, 1855, 
8vo) ; Guthrie, Discourses (Edinb. 1856, Svo); Shrews- 
bury) i Votes (Manch. 1863, 8vo) ; Kliefoth, Erkldrung 
(Host. 1864-5, Svo); *IIengstenberg, Erliiute rung (Burl 
1867 sq., 2 vols. Svo ; transl. Loud. 1869, Svo) ; Cowles, 
Notes (New York, 1867, 12mo). See Prophets. 

E'zel occurs only in the name Eben-Ezel (Heb. 
with the art. repeated, ha-E'ben ha-E'zel, 1 

[in pause PjX, A'zel], the stone of the departure , per- 
haps i. q. milestone; Sept, to ‘Epyufi [v. r. i'pyov and 
6 A/3'0 c] tKth'o; Vulg. lapis cui nomen est Ezel; A. V. 
“the stone Ezel”), an old testimonial-stone in the 
neighborhood of Saul’s residence, the scene of the 
parting of David and Jonathan when the former final- 
ly fled from the court (1 Sam. xx, 19). It seems to 
have derived its name from some earl} r circumstance 
not recorded. At the second mention of the spot (ver. 
41) the Heb. text (nasi! baa? ; A. Y. “out of a place 
toward the south,” literally “from the slope of‘the 
south Sept. ci 7 ro tqv ’Apyn/3, Vulg. de loco qui verge- 
bat ad austrurn) is, in the opinion of some critics, cor- 
rupt, as indicated by the Sept., which in both cases 
has Ergab or Argab (i. e. Argob' , a heap of 

stones) — in ver. 19 for the Heb. Eben, “stone,” and in 
ver. 41 for han-negeb , “ the south.” The sense in ver. 
41 would then be as follows : “ David arose from close 
to the stone heap” — close to which (the same preposi- 
tion, A.V. “by”) it had been arranged before- 

hand that he should remain (ver. 19). Other inter- 
preters, however, render simply “on the south side,” 
a signification which sufficiently suits the circumstan- 
ces. See also Beth-Ezel. 

E'zem (Heb. E'tsem , ESN), a less incorrect mode 
(1 Chron. iv, 29) of Anglicizing the name Azeji (q. 
v.), as elsewhere (Josh, xix, 3). 

Ezen. See Ezxite. 

E'zer (Heb. E'tser , "I3X, treasure ; Sept. ’A trap, 
Vulg. Eser ), one of the sons of Seir, and native princes 
of Mount Hor (Gen. xxxvi, 21, 27, 30; 1 Chron. i, 42, 
38, in which last verse the name is Anglicized “ Ezar”*). 
B.C. cir. 1927. 

E'ZEIt (Heb. E'zer, "it?, [in pause, A'zer , 
"it?], help ), the name of five men. See also Romam- 
TI-ezer ; Eben-ezer. 

1. (Sept. 'E&'p V. r. *A#p,Vulg. Ezer .) A person 
named with Elead (q. v.) as a son (or descendant) of 
Ephraim, who was slain bjrthe aboriginal inhabitants 
of Gath while engaged in a foray on their cattle (1 
Chron. vii, 21). Ewald ( Gesch . Isr. i, 490) assigns this 
occurrence to the pre-Egyptian period. B.C. ante 
1658. 

2. (Sept. ’E£tp v. r. Va^rjp, Vulg. Ezer .) The father 
of Hushah, one of the posterity of Ilur, of the tribe of 
Judah (1 Chron. iv, 4). B.C. cir. 1658. In ver. 17 he 
appears to be called Ezra, but no such son occurs 
Among the list of'those there attributed to him. 

3. (Sept. ’Asfp v. r. ’A£d, Vulg. Ezer.) The first- 
named of the Gittite champions who repaired to David 
at Ziklag (1 Chron. xii, 9). B.C. 1054. 

4. (Sept. ’AZep v. r. ’A £orp, Vulg. Azer .) Son of 
Jeshua, and ruler of Mizpah, who repaired part of the 
city wall near the armory (Neh. iii, 19). B.C. 446. 

5. (Sept. Tt£oi>p,Vulg. Ezer.) One of the priests 
who made the circuit of the newly-finished walls of 
Jerusalem (Neh. xii, 42). B.C. 446*. 

Ezeri'as (b Egepiag v. r. Zfyptnc, Vulg. Azarias), 
the son of Ilelchiah and father of Saraias, in the ances- 


try of Esdras (1 Esdr. viii, 1); evidently the high* 
priest Azakiaii (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra vii, 1). 

Ezi'as (6 ’E^/ng v. r. 6 '0£i«c,Vulg. Azahel ), the 
son of Meremoth and father of Amarias in the same 
genealogy (1 Esdr. viii, 2) ; evidently the correspond- 
ing Azariaii (q. v.) of the Hebrew list (Ezra vii, 3). 
Comp. Aziei. 

E'ziou-ge'ber (Heb. Etsyon'-Ge'ber , 

[in this form only at 1 Kings ix, 26 ; 2 Chron. viii, 17], 
i. q. giant's back-bone; Sept, rVnrtwF [in Deut. Ftai- 
wi] rdfitp [in Chron. Tn/Sfp], but in 1 Kings 'Action 
rdfitp ; Vulg. Asiongaber) or E'ZION-GA'BER (being 
“in pause,” Heb. Etsyon -Ga'ber, f’AV [in 1 

Kings xx, 49; 2 Chron. xx, 36, fully ‘jTIS:;], so found 
also at Numb, xxxiii, 35, 36; Deut. ii, 8; but Angli- 
cized “ Ezion-geber” in 1 Kings xxii, 48 [49]), a very 
ancient city near Elath (q. v.), on the eastern arm of 
the Red Sea. Jonathan’s Tar gum, following a false 
etymology, defines the name as i. q. “castle of the 
cock” (see Buxtorf, Lex. Cliald. col. 384 ; Beck, Chron. 
Chald.paraphr.W , 101). It is first mentioned in Numb, 
xxxiii, 35 as one of the stations where the Hebrews 
halted in their journeyings through the desert, being 
the*last there named before they came to “ the wilder- 
ness of Zin, which is Kadesli,” and the point where 
they afterwards turned from the ’Arabah to Elath, to- 
wards “the wilderness of Moab” (Deut. ii, 8). See 
Exode. From its. harbor it was that Solomon (1 
Kings ix, 26) sent the fleet which he had there built 
to the land of Ophir. See Commerce. Here also Je- 
hoshaphat (1 Kings xxii, 47; 2 Chron. xx, 35) built a 
fleet “to go to Ophir;” but because he had joined him- 
self with Ahaziah, “ king of Israel, who did wickedly,” 
“the ships were. broken that they were not able to go 
to Tarshish,” being probably destroyed on the rocks 
which lie in “jagged ranges on each side” (Stanley, 
Sinai and Palestine , p. 84). Biisehing ( Erdbesclir V, i, 
620) erroneously locates it at Shurm, a port at the 
southern end of the gulf ( Geogr . Nub. iii, 5). Wellsted 
(Travels, \\,\b%) -would find it in the modern Dahob , 
but this is the ancient Dizahab (q. v.) ; Laborde ( Com - 
mentaire Geogr. p. 124) seeks it in the rocky island 
el-Kurdyah, -which is hardly adequate in extent or 
position ; and Rtippel (Arab. p. 252) locates it at the 
mouth of 1 wady Emrag , i. e. eA-Murak, which is liable 
to the same objection. Josephus (Ant. viii, 6, 4) says 
that Ezion-geber (’A caioyydf3apoc) was also called 
Berenice , and that it lay not far from iElath. It is 
probably the same with the once-populous city M syun 
(Burckhardt, Syria, p. 511). Robinson (BiblicaJ Re- 
searches, i, 250) says, “No trace of Ezion-geber seems 
now to remain, unless it be in the name of a small 
wady with brackish water, el-Ghudyan, opening into 
el-’Arabah from the western mountain, some distance 
north of Akabah.” It is doubtful, however, whether 
the sea ever extended so far up the ’Arabah as this. 
It was probably situated at the point where the Haj 
route strikes the ’Arabah at the north-west point of the 
gulf (Robinson, ib. i, 239). Yet the town may have 
given name to this the nearest spring, for Glimhjan in 
Arabic corresponds in all the essential letters to Ezion 
in Heb., which is identical -with the later 'A syun. By 
comparing 1 Kings ix, 26, 27, with 2 Chron. viii, 17, 18, 
it is probable that timber was floated from Tyre to the 
nearest point on the Mediterranean coast, and then 
conveyed over land to the head of the Gulf of Akabah, 
where the ships seem to have been built ; for there 
can hardly have been adequate forests in the neigh- 
borhood. Dr. Wilson noticed fragments of an old car- 
avan route part way up the hill-side in this vicinit} r 
(Lands of the Bible , i, 284). See Wilderness of the 
Wandering. 

Ez'nite (Heb’. in marg. Etsni , '"OS?, hut in the 
text ITE!.*, i. e. Etsno') is given in 2 Sam. xxiii, 8, in 
the Auth.Yers., as an epithet of Adino, praifect of Da- 


EZOB 


435 


EZRA 


vid’s body-guard ; and if considered as a gentile adj., 
must mean an inhabitant of Ezen, a place otherwise 
unknown. But of the words rendered “ Adino the Ez- 
nite”(12II3>*fl Sept. 'Ahvtov 6 ’Aaoji'aiog ; Yulg. 

quasi tenerrimus ligm vermiculus, as if understanding 
the latter term to be a form of wood), Gesenius 
( Heb . Lex.) regards the former as a peculiar allitera- 
tion for is •Jr?, in the sense of “he brandished,” from 
the root to be pliant; and the latter as a rare 

word, a spear (for which sense lie finds analogy in 
the Arabic) ; and thus the whole phrase will be equiv- 
alent to that in the parallel passage (1 Chron. xi, 11), 
which otherwise we must here interpolate (with our 
translators) in order to make sense. That these words 
do not contain the name of a person is clear from the 
fact that Jashobeam is given in the parallel passage, 
and is capable of identification [see Jashobeam], and 
also from the enumeration, in which the two merito- 
rius grades of three each, with the 30 warriors special- 
ly enumerated, require just this one special officer to 
make up the number of 37 specified in the text as pe- 
culiarly distinguished. See David. The passage in 
2 Sam. is conceded to be less trustworthy than that in 
1 Chron., even b} r Davidson, who vainfy contends ( Sa- 
cred Hermeneutics, p. 545) for Adino as a proper name. 
(See at length in Kennicott, Dissertation , i, 71-128 ; Ge- 
senius, Thes. Heb. p. 094-5.) Compare Adino. 

Ezob. See Hyssop. 

Ez'ra (Heb. [except in No. 1] Ezra', SHT?, the 
help, a Chaldee emphatic form of *"iT2, Ezer), the name 
of three or four men. 

1. (1 Chron. iv, 17.) See Ezrait. 

2 . (Sept. v. r. "Eo-Jpcir;, Vulgate Esdras .) A 

leading priest among the first colonists to Jerusalem 
under Zernbbabel (Neh. xii, 2). B.C. 53G. His son 
Meshullam was chief of his family in the time of the 
high-priest Joiakim (Neh. xii, 12). In the somewhat 
parallel list of Neh. x, 2-8, the 'name of the same per- 
son is written rPHj:.', Azariah, as it is probably in 
Ezra vii, 1. 

3. (Sept/Eorpac v. r."E£pa, Josephus."E(rCpaf,Vnlg. 
Esdras.) The celebrated Jewish scribe ("2C) and 
priest (“Hr), who, in the year B.C. 459, led the second 
expedition of Jews back from the Babylonian exile 
into Palestine, and the author of one of the canonical 
books of Scripture. 

1. Parentage. — Ezra was a lineal descendant from 
Phinchas, the son of Aaron (Ezra vii, 1-5). He is 
stated to be the son of Scraiah, the son of Azariah; 
which Scraiah was slain at Iiiblah by order of Nebu- 
chadnezzar, having been brought thither a captive by 
Nebuzaradan (2 Kings xxv, 18-21). See Seraiaii. 
But, as 130 years elapsed between the death of Seraiah 
and the departure of Ezra from Babylon, and we read 
that a grandson of Seraiah was the high-priest who ac- 
companied Zerubbabel on the first return to Jerusa- 
lem, seventy years before Ezra returned thither, we 
may suppose that by the term son here, as in some 
other places, the relationship of great-grandson, or of 
a still more remote direct descendant, is intended. See 
Father. All that is really known of Ezra is contain- 
ed in the last four chapters of the book of Ezra, and in 
Neh. viii and xii, 2G. In addition to the information 
there given, that he was a “scribe,” a “ready scribe 
of the law of Moses,” “a scribe of the words of the 
commandments of the Lord and of his statutes to Is- 
rael,” “a scribe of the law of the God of heaven,” and 
“a priest,” we are told by Josephus that be was high- 
priest of the Jews who were left in Babylon ; that he 
was particularly conversant with the laws of Moses, 
and was held in universal esteem on account of his 
righteousness and virtue (Ant. xi, 5, 1). 

2. Scriptural Historg. — The rebuilding of the Tem- 


ple of Jerusalem, vdiich had been decreed by Cyrus in 
the year B.C. 53G, was, after much powerful and vex- 
atious opposition, completed in the reign and by the 
permission of Darius llystaspis, in the year B.C. 517. 

The origin of Ezra’s influence with the Persian king 
Artaxerxes Longimanus does not appear, but in the 
seventh year of his reign, B.C. 459, in spite of the un- 
favorable report which bad been sent by Relmm and 
, Shimshai, he obtained leave to go to Jerusalem, and to 
take with him a company of Israelites, together with 
priests, Levites, singers, porters, and Nethinim. Of 
these a list, amounting to 1754, is given in Ezra viii ; 
and these, also, doubtless form a part of the full list of 
the returned captives contained in Neh. vii, and in du- 
plicate in Ezra ii. Ezra and his companions were al- 
lowed to take with them a large free-will offering of 
gold and silver, and silver vessels, contributed not only 
by the Babylonian Jews, but by the king himself and 
his counsellors. These offerings were for the house 
of God, to beautify it, and for the purchase of bullocks, 
rams, and the other offerings required for the Temple- 
service. In addition to this, Ezra was empowered to 
draw upon the king’s treasurers beyond the river for 
any further supplies he might require ; and all priests, 
Levites, and other ministers of the Temple were ex- 
empted from taxation. Ezra had also authority given 
him to appoint magistrates and judges in Judjea, with 
power of life and death over all offenders. The rea- 
son of the interest for the worship of God at this time 
evinced by Artaxerxes appears to have been a fear 
of the divine displeasure, for we read in the conclu- 
sion of the decree to the treasurers beyond the river, 
“Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven, let 
it be diligently done for the house of the God of heav- 
en ; for whg should there be wrath against the realm of 
the king and his sons?” We are also told (Ezra vii, G) 
that the king granted Ezra all bis request ; and Jose- 
phus informs us that Ezra, being desirous of going to 
Jerusalem, requested tlie king to grant him recom- 
mendatory letters to the governor of Syria (Ant. xi, 5, 
1). We may therefore suppose that the dread which 
xVrtaxerxes entertained of the divine judgments was 
the consequence of the exposition to him by Ezra of 
the history of the Jewish people. Some writers sup- 
1 pose that this favor shown to the Jews was consequent 
upon the marriage of Esther with Ahasuerus ; but this 
could not be, even if we should grant, what is unlike- 
ly, that the Artaxerxes of the book of Ezra and the 
Ahasuerus of the book of Esther were the same per- 
son, because Ezra set out for Jerusalem in the first 
month in the seventh year of the reign of Artaxerxes, 
and Esther was not taken into the king’s bouse until 
the tenth month in the seventh year of the reign of 
Ahasuerus, and did not declare lier connection with 
the Jewish people, and obtain favor for them until af- 
; ter the plot of Hainan, in the twelfth year of Ahasne- 
i rus. See Ahasuerus. 

Ezra assembled the Jews who accompanied him on 
the banks of the river Ahava, where they baited three 
days in tents. Here Ezra proclaimed a fast, as an 
act of humiliation before God, and a season of prayer 
for divine direction and safe conduct ; for, on setting 
out, he “ was ashamed to require a band of soldiers 
and horsemen to help them against the enemy bv the 
, way,” because he had asserted to the king that the 
hand of his God is upon all them that seek him for 
good. Ezra next committed the care of the treasures 
which he carried with him to twelve of the chief 
priests, assisted by ten of their brethren, appointing 
these to take charge of the treasures by the way, and 
deliver them safely in the house of the Lord at Jeru. 
salem. On the twelfth day from their first setting 
out Ezra and his companions left the river Ahava, anC 
arrived safefy at Jerusalem in the fifth month, having 
been delivered from the band of the enemy and c? 
such as lay in wait by the way. Three days aftei 
their arrival the treasures were weighed and delivered 


EZRA 


436 


EZRA 


into the custody of some Levites. The returning ex- 
iles offered burnt-offerings to the Lord. They deliv- 
ered also the king’s commissions to the viceroys and 
governors, and gave needful help to the people and 
the ministers of the Temple. 

Ezra’s ample commission had been granted him at 
his own request (ver. G), and it appears that his great 
design was to effect a religious reformation among the 
Palestinian Jews, and to bring them back to the obser- 
vance of the law of Moses, from which they had griev- 
ously declined. His first care, accordingly, was to 
enforce a separation from their wives of all who had 
made heathen marriages, in which number were many 
priests and Levites, as well* as other Israelites. For 
this an opportunity soon presented itself. When he 
had discharged the various trusts committed to him, 
the princes of the Jew's came to him and complained 
that the Jewish people generally who had returned 
from the captivity, and also the priests and Levites, 
but especially the rulers and princes, had not kept 
themselves separate from the people of the land, but 
bad done according to the abominations of the rem- 
nant of the nations whom their forefathers had driven 
out, and married their daughters, and allowed their 
children to intermarry with them. On this report 
Ezra evinced his deep affliction, according to the Jew- 
ish custom, by rending his mantle and tearing the hair 
of his head and beard. There gathered round him all 
those who still feared God, and dreaded his w’rath for 
the transgression of those w hom lie had brought back 
from captivity. Having waited till the time of the 
evening sacrifice, Ezra rose up, and, having again 
rent liis hair and his garments, made public prayer 
and confession of sin. The assembled people wept 
bitterly, and Sliechaniab, one of the sons of Elam, 
came forward to propose a general covenant to put 
away the foreign v’ivcs and their children. Ezra then 
arose and administered an oath to the people that they 
would do accordingly. Proclamation v T as also made 
that all those who had returned from the captivity 
should within three days gather themselves together to 
Jerusalem, under pain of excommunication and for- 
feiture of their goods. The people assembled at the 
time appointed, trembling on account of their sin and 
of the heavy rain that fell. Ezra addressed them, 
declaring to them their sin, and exhorting them to 
amend their lives by dissolving their illegal connec- 
tions. The people acknowledged the justice of his 
rebukes, and promised obedience. The}' then request- 
ed that, as the rain fell heavily, and the number of 
transgressors v'as great, he would appoint times at 
which they might severally come to be examined re- 
specting this matter, accompanied by the judges and 
ciders of every city. A commission was therefore 
formed, consisting of Ezra and some others, to investi- 
gate the extent of the evil. This investigation occu- 
pied three months. Josephus relates the affecting 
scene which occurred on the reading of the law by 
Ezra (.1 nf. xi, 5, 5). The account given by Josephus 
agrees with that of Xehemiah in all leading particu- 
lars, except that Josephus places the date and occa- 
sion in the reign of Xerxes (.IwL xi, 5, 1). 

With the detailed account of this important transac- 
tion Ezra’s autobiography ends abruptly, and w*e hear 
nothing more of him till, thirteen years aftenvards, in 
the twentieth of Artaxerxcs, v r e find him again at Je- 
rusalem with Xehemiah the “ Tirshatha.” B.C. 446. 
It is generally assumed that Ezra had continued gov- 
ernor till Xehemiah superseded him ; but as Ezra’s 
commission was only of a temporary nature, “to in- 
quire concerning Judah and Jerusalem” (Ezra vii, 
11), and to carry thither “the silver and gold W'hich 
the king and his counsellors had freely offered unto 
the God of Israel” (ver. 15), and as there is no’ trace 
whatever of his presence at .Jerusalem between the 
eighth and the twentieth of Artaxerxes, it seems prob- 
able that after he bad effected the above-named refor- 


mation, and had appointed competent judges and mag« 
istrates, with authority to maintain it, he himself re" 
turned to the king of Persia. This is in itself what 
one would expect, and what is borne out by the paral- 
lel case of Xehemiah, and it also accounts for the ab- 
rupt termination of Ezra’s narrative, and for that re- 
lapse of the Jews into their former irregularities which 
is apparent in the book of Xehemiah. Such a relapse, 
and such a state of affairs at Jerusalem in general, 
could scarcely have occurred if Ezra bad continued 
there. Whether he returned to Jerusalem with Xehe- 
miah, or separately, docs not appear certainly, but as 
he is not mentioned in Xehemiah’s narrative till after 
the completion of the wall (Xeh. viii, 1), it is perhaps 
probable that he followed the latter some months later, 
having, perhaps, been sent for to aid him in his work. 
The functions he executed under Xehemiah’s govern- 
ment were purely of a priestly and ecclesiastical char- 
acter, such as reading and interpreting the law of Mo- 
ses to the people during the eight days of the feast of 
Tabernacles, praying in the congregation, and assist- 
ing at the dedication of the wall, and in promoting the 
religious reformation so happily effected by the Tir- 
shatha. Hut in such he filled the first place, being re- 
peatedly coupled with Xehemiah the Tirshatha (viii, 
9; xii, 20), while Eliasliih the high-priest is not men- 
tioned as taking any part in the reformation at all. In 
the sealing to the covenant described in Xeb. x, Ezra 
perhaps sealed under the patronymic Scraiah or Aza- 
riah (v, 2). In Xeh. viii we read that, on the occasion 
of the celebration of the feast of the seventh month, 
subsequently to Xchemiah’s numbering the people, 
Ezra was requested to 1 ring the book of the law of 
Moses ; and that he read therein standing upon a pul- 
pit of wood, which raised him above all the people. 
As Ezra is not mentioned after Xehemiah’s departure 
for Babylon in the thirty-second of Artaxerxcs, and as 
everything fell into confusion during Xehemiah’s ab- 
sence (Xeh. xiii), it is not unlikely that Ezra may 
have again returned to Babylon before that year. See 
Xeiiemiaii. 

f>. Traditionary Acts. — Josephus, who should be our 


nothing about the time or the place of his death. He 
vaguely says, “ lie died an old man, and was buried in 
a magnificent manner at Jerusalem” (Ant. xi, 5,5), and 
places his deatli in the high-priesthood of Joacim, and 
I before the government of Xehemiah! According to 
; some Jewish chroniclers, he died in the year in which 
Alexander came to Jerusalem, on the tenth clay of the 
! month To belli (that is, the lunation in December), in 
t lie same year in which took place the death of the 
prophets llaggai, Zechariah,and Malachi, and in which 
prophecy became extinct. According to other tradi- 
tions, Ezra returned to Babylon and died there at the 
age of 120 years. The Talmudic statement is that he 
died at Znmzmmi, a town on the Tigris, while on his 
road from Jerusalem to Susa, whither he was going to 
j converse wdth Artaxerxes about the affairs of the Jews. 

| Thus Benjamin of Tudela says of Xehar-Samorah (ap- 
| parentlv Zamnza, otherwise Zamznmn): “The sepul- 
I elirc of Ezra the priest and scribe is in this place, 
where he died on his journey from Jerusalem to king 
Artaxerxes” ( Travels , i, 116). A tomb said to be Ms 
is shown on the Tigris, near its junction with the Eu- 
phrates (Lavai'd, A in. and Bab. p. 428, note). An in- 
teresting description of this tomb is given by Kitto 
' (Piet: Bible , note at the end of Ezra). 

As regards the traditional history of Ezra, it is ex- 
tremely difficult to judge what portion of it lias any 
historical foundation. The principal works ascribed 
to him by the Jews, and, on the strength of their tes- 
timony, by Christians also, are tlic following: 

(1.) Sonic traditions assert that Ezra w as, about A. 
M. 3113, the president of the rC2=, Synagoga 

Magna, and the father of all Mishnic doctors. See 


EZRA 


437 


EZRA, BOOK OF 



deputed Tomb of Ezra. 


Synagogue, Great. In piety and meekness lie was 
like Moses ( Yuchusin , p. 13. See Zemach David). 
When he went from Babylon to Jerusalem, he took 
with him all persons whose descent was either illegiti- 
mate or unknown, so that the Jews left in Babylon 
should be rblOD ''pi, pure likejlour ( Kiddushin , c. 4, 
l,Gem.). Ezra is said to have introduced the present 
square Hebrew character, and, in conjunction with 
some other elders, to have made the Masora (q. v.), 
the punctuation, and accentuation of the whole Bible 
(Abarbanel, F reef at. ad Nachnlath A bath ; Elias, Prcef. 
3 Masor.). Ezra is also said to have vigorously re- 
sisted the sect of the Sadducees, which sprang up in 
his days ; and therefore to have put the words ‘j'2 
DDWn, a $:eculo in sccculum, at the head of 
Jill prayers, as a symbol by which the orthodox could 
be distinguished (Bab .Berachoih, fol. 51). Since the 
people, during the Babylonian captivity or exile, had 
become accustomed to the Aramaic language^ and 
scarcely understood Hebrew, Ezra established the of- 
fice of turgoman, dragoman , or interpreter, 

who stood near the public reader in the synagogue, 
and translated every verse after it was read (. Megillah , 
fol. 74). Hence lie is usually regarded as the founder 
of the synagogue worship. See Synagogue. Ezra 
ordained that the year of jubilee should be reckoned 
from the seventh year after the rebuilding of the Tem- 
ple (Maimonides, Hal. Jobel. cap. 10). 

(2.) Ezra is considered to be the author of the can- 
on, and worth}' to have been the lawgiver, if Moses had 
not preceded him (Bab. Sanhed. c. ii, f. 21 ; comp, the 
art. Canon), lie is even said to have rewritten the 
whole of the Old Testament from memory, the copies 
of which had perished by neglect. To him is also as- 
cribed the authorship of the books of Chronicles, Ezra, 
Nehemiah, and, some add, Esther; and, many of the 
Jews say, also of the books of Ezekiel, Daniel, and 
the twelve prophets; to which we may with more 
probability perhaps add the 119th Psalm. (See each 
book in its place.) Tischcndorf has lately published 
(Apocalypses Apocrypha *, Lips. 18G6) an edit in princeps 
of the Greek text of an “Apocalypsis Esdrre.” See 
Revelations (Spurious). 

But we must abstain from recounting all the tradi- 
tional amplifications of the doings of Ezra, since, if all 
were to be received, it would be difficult to say what 
he did not do, so strong has been the inclination to 
connect important facts with his person (comp. 2 Esdr. 
xiv; Iren a? us, ado. Hares, iii, 25; Clem. Alexandr. 
Strom, i, p. 142 ; Augustin. De Mirabil. Script, ii, 23 ; 
Jerome, ad Ilalrid. p. 212; Buxtorf, Tiberias , p. 88 


sq. ; Bertholdt, Einleit. i, G9 sq. ; De Wette, Einleit. p. 
17 sq. ; Saner, Dissert, in canonem Vet. Test, etc., Altorf, 
1792 ; Sanhedrin , fol. xxi, 1 ; Rau, De Synag. Magna, 
p. 31, 89; Hartmann, Verbmdung des Alten und Neuen 
Testamentes , p. 114 sq.). Of most of the above acts of 
Ezra a full account is given in Prideaux’s Connexion , 
i, 308-348, and 355—370 ; also in Otho’s Lex. Rabb. p. 
208 sq. A compendious account of the arguments by 
which most of these Jewish statements are proved to 
be fabulous is given in Stehelin’s Rabbin. Literal, p. 
5-8; of which the chief are drawn from the silence of 
the sacred writers themselves, of the apocryphal books, 
and of Josephus — and it might be added, of Jerome — 
and from the fact that they may he traced to the au- 
thor of the chapter in the Mishna called Pirke Aboth. 
Arabian fables about Ezra are mentioned in Hottin- 
ger’s Thes. Philol. p. 113, and in Herbelot, Bill. Orien- 
tate , p. G97, etc. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

EZRA, Book of. This is manifestly a continua- 
tion of the Looks of Chronicles, as, indeed, it is called 
by Hilary, bishop of Poitiers, Sermones dierum Esdrce 
(ap. Cosin’s Canon of Script, p. 51), and as was early 
conceded (lluetius, Dem. Evang. iv, 14, p. 341). See 
Chronicles (Books of). 

I. Contents . — The book of Ezra contains caropvripo- 
i avpara, memorabilia , or records of events occurring 
about the termination of the Babylonian exile. It 
contains accounts of the favors bestowed upon the 
Jews by the Persian kings; of the rebuilding of the 
Temple ; of the mission of Ezra to Jerusalem, and his 
regulations and reforms. Such records forming the 
subject of the book of Ezra, we must not be surprised 
that its parts are not so intimately connected with 
each other as M T e might have expected if the author 
had set forth his intention to furnish a complete his- 
tory of his times (see Pemble, Persian Monarchy, in 
his irorfo, Lond. 1G35, p. 345). The events narrated 
in the book of Ezra are spread .over the reigns of 

Years. Months. 

Cyrus 7 0 

Cambyses 7 5 

Magus, or Pseudo-Smerdis 0 7 

Darius llystaspis 30 0 

Xerxes 19 5 

Artabanus 0 7 

Artaxerxes (in the eighth year of whose) g q 

reigu the records of Ezra cease) .... j 

Total 79 0 

The arrangement of the facts in the book of Ezra is 
chronological. The book may be divided into two 
portions. Thejfr’srf consists of chapters i-vi, and con- 
tains the history of the returning exiles and of their 
rebuilding of the Temple, and comprises the period 
from the first year of Cyrus, B.C. 536, to the sixth 
year of Darius Hystaspis, B.C. 515. The second por- 
tion contains the personal history of the migration of 
Ezra to Palestine, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes. 
This latter portion, embracing chapters vii-x, is an 
autobiography of Ezra during about twelve or thirteen 
months, in the seventh and eighth years of the reign 
of Artaxerxes Longimanus. 

II. Plan . — The course of events recorded in these 
ten chapters appears to be as follows ; First, the decree 
of king Cyrus, putting an end to the Babylonish cap- 
tivity, and instructing the returning Israelites to re- 
build the Temple and restore the worship of Jehovah 
(ch. i). Second, the consequent proceedings of the 
people (ch. ii, iii). Third, the liinderanees to which 
they were exposed by the jealousy of the Persian gov- 
ernment, stimulated as this was by the hatred of the 
neighbors of the Jews, until Darius discovered the 
original decree of Cyrus, and confirmed and extended 
it, so that the Temple was fully rebuilt, and the wor- 
ship restored according to the law (ch. iv, v, vi). 
Fourth, the mission of Ezra, who was both a priest and 
a scribe, and was empowered by king Artaxerxes not 
only to maintain the prescribed worship, but, greatly 
more than that, to restore the entire theocratic admin* 


EZRA 


438 


EZRA 


istration, only reserving the temporal supremacy of 
the Persian monarchy (ch. vii, viii). Lastly, the re- 
construction of this theocratic state, which Ezra effect- 
ed so completely that he carried the people with him 
i:i remodelling the family relations by the law against 
intermarriage with certain races (ch. ix, x). 

III. Unity. — This is a - complete narrative in itself; 
and there is no room for the hypothesis that Chroni- 
cles, Ezra, and Nehemiah, taken together, form one 
great historical work. The arguments for this hy- 
pothesis are of no weight in themselves for establish- 
ing the conclusion ; but in so far as they are state- 
ments of fact, they are willingly put forward by us as 
circumstances worthy of consideration in themselves, 
and apart from the illogical purpose to which they 
have been applied. 1. The three books have a large 
number of words and phrases in common, which are 
not met with at all, or at least not frequently, in other 
parts of Scripture. This agrees well with their com- 
position at a new epoch in the history of the Hebrew 
nation and its literature, by men who had been brought 
up in the land of Assyria or Babylon, perhaps brought 
up together at the same Persian court, Ezra and Ne- 
liemiah being also most intimate friends and fellow- 
workers. The opinion is also probable that the Chron- 
icles were compiled by Ezra, as well as the book to 
which his own name has been given. 2. There is a 
predilection for genealogical details running through 
all these books. This seems to have been character- 
istic of the age; and it was probably necessary, con- 
sidering the efforts to restore the old arrangements as 
to the holding of property, the administration of gov- 
ernment, and the preservation of ancient national feel- 
ing, all of which objects were likely to force genealog- 
ical questions upon the notice of men. 8. There is a 
similar prominence given to details about the priests 
and Levites. This is unavoidable in any treatment 
of the people of Israel, unless their character as the 
Church of God is to be overlooked. Especially, in 
whatever proportion there were difficulties felt as to 
the revival of the more political aspects of the theoc- 
racy, in that same proportion must the greater atten- 
tion have been given to its ecclesiastical arrange- 
ments. 

IV. Authorship. — A late ingenious writer (Rev. and 
Lord Ilervey, in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible, s. v.) thus 
pronounces on this question : “ Like the two books of 
Chronicles, it consists of the contemporary historical 
journals kept from time to time by the prophets, or 
other authorized persons, who were eye-witnesses for 
the most part of what they record, and whose several 
narratives were afterwards strung together, and either 
abridged or added to, as the case required, by a later 
hand. That later hand, in the book of Ezra, was doubt- 
less Ezra’s own, as appears by the last four chapters, 
as well as by other matter inserted in the previous 
chapters. While, therefore, in a certain sense, the 
whole book is Ezra’s, as put together by him, yet 
strictly only the last four chapters are his original 
work. Nor will it be difficult to point out with toler- 
able certainty several of the writers of whose writings 
the first six chapters are composed.” Accordingly, 
that writer, in imitation of many Rationalists, proceeds 
to dissect the book for this purpose. 1. Chap, i he as- 
signs as being undoubtedly by Daniel, on account of 
the otherwise unaccountable silence of that prophet re- 
specting the decree of Cyrus, and the phraseology of 
Ezra in referring to that event. 2. Chap, ii is assign- 
ed to Nehemiah, as being identical with Xeh. vii. 8. 

( hap. iii, 2-vi (except iv, G— 23), he thinks belongs to 
Haggai, on account of certain coincidences of expres- 
sion in that prophet. I. Chap, iv, 6-23, he regards as j 
a parenthetic addition made in the reign of Artaxerxes 
Longimanus. 5. Chaps, vii-ix are unquestionably 
Ezra's own production. A still later critic (I)r. Da- 
vidson, in the new edit, of Kitio’s Cyclopedia of Bibl. 
Lit. s. v.) is even bolder in distributing various por- 


tions to u the Chronist,” as he designates the unknown 
interpolator after Ezra. 

It is a sufficient refutation of all such attempts to 
note their extremely subjective character, depending 
chiefly upon the caprice or conjecture of the critic him- 
self; for the peculiarities cited, when closely exam- 
ined, are found to be too general and accidental to be 
relied upon as proofs of authorship, especially in view 
of the foregoing remarks respecting the scheme of the 
book. Moreover, if, as all admit, Ezra did incorporate 
older documents into his history (so even Moses does 
in the Pentateuch), yet, as he moulded them into a ho- 
mogeneous narrative, this does not militate against 
his claim to be regarded as the proper author, and not 
simply editor of the book that bears his name. (See 
the Einleitungen of Havernick and Keil.) 

V. Personality of the Writer. — In the first six chap- 
ters the use of the third person predominates in the 
narrative, except in passages where, by synecdoche, oc- 
curs UO’TSX, Heb. we said, or where the nar- 

rative contains abstracts from documents to which 
Ezra had access. In these abstracts the Aramaic or 
Chaldee language of the original documents has been 
preserved from ch. iv, 8 to vi, 18, and vii, 12-26. These 
portions exist in Kennicott’s Cod. p. 240, in a collateral 
Hebrew translation, reprinted in Kennicott’s edition 
of the Hebrew Bible, and separately in Chaldaicorum 
Danielis et Esrce capitum interpretatio Ilebraica (Lu- 
dovicus Schulze, Hal®, 1782, 8vo). An argument has 
been raised against the opinion that Ezra was the au- 
thor of the whole book that bears his name from the 
use of the first person plural in the 4th verse of the 
5th chapter, which would seem to imply that the nar- 
rator was present on the occasion described; but, set- 
ting aside other replies to this argument, it appears 
that the word zee refers to Tatnai and his companions, 
and not at all to the Jews. Ezra speaks from ch. vii, 
27, to ch. ix, 15, in the first person. “ There is an es- 
sential difference between public events which a man 
recollects, though only as in a dream, to have heard of 
at the time when they occurred, and those which pre- 
ceded his birth. The former we think of with refer- 
ence to ourselves; the latter are foreign to us. The 
epoch and duration of the former we measure by our 
own life; the latter belong to a period for which our 
imagination has no scale. Life and definiteness are 
imparted to all that we hear or read with respect to 
the events of our own life” (Niebuhr, On the Distinction 
between Annals and History ). These remarks, which 
Niebuhr made in reference to Tacitus, are in a great 
measure applicable also to Ezra. Instances of simi- 
lar change of person are so frequent in ancient au- 
thors that rhetoricians have introduced it among the 
rhetorical figures under the name of enallage persona- 
rwn. The prophetical writings of the Old Testament 
furnish examples of such ti’aWayi). For instance, 
Ezek. i, 1-3 ; Zecli. i, 1 ; vi, 1 ; vii, 1, 4, 8 ; Jer. xx, 1 
sq., comp, with v, 7 sq. ; xxi, 1 ; xxviii, 1-5; xxxii, 
1-8; IIos. i,2-3; iii, 1. So also in Habakkuk, Dan- 
iel, etc. The frequency of this traWayi), especially 
in the prophetical parts of the Old Testament, arises 
from either the more objective or more subjective ten- 
dency of the style, which of course varies in harmony 
with the contents of the chapter. (See Fromman, 
Disq. qua Orientis regibus plurium mimero de se loqui 
non inusittitum fuisse , probnbiliter ostenditur , Cob. 1762.) 
We express our opinion that even Havernick does not 
rightly set forth the truth of the matter when, in his 
Einh itung, he says that this ivaWayq arose from Ez- 
ra's imitation of the prophetic usage, and when lie ap- 
provingly quotes Schirmer’s Observationes exegeticic et 
criticn in librnm Esdra\ ii, 8 (Vratisl. 1830), There was 
eertainlv as little imitation of the prophets in the enal- 
Itiye personnrum of Ezra as there is imitation of the 
prophets if we change from the first to the third person 
in our own communications. ’EraWayi) never arises 


EZRA 


439 


EZRAHITE 


from imitation, but only from the more subjective or 
more objective turn of our mind, and from that vivaci- 
ty of style which renders it incumbent upon the reader 
rather than upon the writer to suppty that 
which, as in Jonah ii, 3, forms the transition from the 
use of the third to the adoption of th z first person. 

VI. Date. — The reckless assertions of some writers 
that this composition as a whole must be referred to a 
period about a century later than Ezra, or more, need 
not be noticed, because they have not even a pretence 
of argument in their favor. One writer, Zunz (Die 
gottesdienstl. Vortriige der Juden , 1832), has indeed al- 
leged that there is some exaggeration about the sa- 
cred vessels said to have been restored by Cyrus; 
but his fellow-unbelievers have refused to agree with 
him, and have defended the historical credibility of 
the book throughout. Another critic, Bertheau, sees 
an evidence of the composition of ch. vi, 22 under the 
Greek successors of Alexander, because the king of 
Persia is called the king of Assyria ; an argument 
which might have been left to its own weakness, even 
though we had been unable to give the parallels 2 
Kings xxiii, 29 ; Lam. v, G, as Keil has done. 

On the contrary, critics who rely upon their inter- 
nal arguments might have seen evidence in favor of 
its early composition in the fact that its chronology is 
clear and exact ; while the accounts of Jewish affairs 
under the Persian monarchy, as given by Josephus 
from apocryphal writers and other sources unknown 
to us, present extreme confusion and some palpable 
mistakes. The book begins with the decree of Cyrus 
after he had taken Babylon, by which the Jews were 
sent home to Jerusalem and directed to rebuild the 
Temple, B.C. 53G. It narrates the difficulties and hiu- 
derances before this was accomplished in the sixth year 
of Darius, the son of llvstaspes, about B.C. 51G. It 
passes in silence over the rest of his reign, 31 years, 
and the whole of the reign of Xerxes, 21 years, pro- 
ceeding directly to the work of Ezra, who received his 
commission in the seventh year of Artaxerxes Lon- 
gimanus, B.C. 459. If the whole of the events nar- 
rated in the closing chapter took place almost imme- 
diately, as is understood, we believe, by all commenta- 
tors, then the extreme length of time embraced in the 
narrative is not above 80 years ; and the order is strict- 
ly chronological, though it is not continuous, but leaves 
a blank of almost sixty years. (See Ililgenfeld, Ezra 
mid Daniel, und Hire neueste Bearbeitungen, Halle, 18G3.) 

VI t. Language. — The book is written partly in He- 
brew and partly in Chaldee. The Chaldee begins at 
iv, 8, and continues to the end of vi, 18. The letter 
or decree of Artaxerxes, vii, 12-2G, is also given in the 
original Chaldee. 

VIII. Canonicity. — There has never been any doubt 
about Ezra being canonical, although there is no quo- 
tation from it in the X. Test. Augustine styles Ezra 
“rather a writer of transactions than a prophet” (De 
Civ. DA , xviii, 3G). 

IX. Apocryphal Additions. — "We have spoken thus 
far of the canonical book of Ezra; there are, however, 
four books that have received this name, viz. the book 
noticed above, the only one which was received into 
the Hebrew canon under that name, the book of Xehe- 
miah, and the two apocryphal books of Esdras, con- 
cerning which last see Esdras. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, 
6. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. 

X. Commentaries. — The following are special exe- 
getical works on the entire book, the most important 
being denoted by an asterisk (*) prefixed: *Aben 
Ezra, 23*^2 (in Buxtorfs Rabbinical Bible, Basle, 
1G18-19, fob) ; Bede, Ejpositio (in IForLs, viii, 3G0) ; 
*Rashi, 113^*2 (Xaples, 1187, 4to; Venice, 1517, fob; 
in Latin, with other books, Gotha, 1714, 4to) ; *I\im- 
chi, CV'-B (in Bomberg’s Rabbinical Bible, Ven. 1549, 
fob) ; -Simeon, 0^3 (in his Bible, Venice, 1518, fob); 


Jachya, 23l“i2 (Bologna, 1538, fob); Jaabez, 

(Belvedere, n. d. fob) ; Trapp, Commentary (Lon- 
don, 1G5G, fob) ; De Oliva, Commentarii (Leyden, 1564, 
4to ; 1G79, 2 vols. fob); *Strigel, Commentavius (Tigur. 
1570, 1584, fob) ; also Scholia (Lips. 1571) ; Wolphius, 
Commentarii (Tigur. 1584, fob) ; Sanctius, Commentaru 
(Leyd. 1628, fob) ; Lombard, Commentavius (Par. 1G43, 
fob); Jackson, Explanation (London, 1G58, 4to) ; Lee, 
Discourse (London, 1722, 8vo); *Rambach, Xota> (in 
Grotii et Cleriei Adnot. in Ilagiogr. ii); *Schirmer, Ob- 
servations (Vratislav. 1817, 8vo ; 1820, 4to) ; *Keil, 
Apologet. Vers. etc. (Berk* 1833, 8vo) ; Kleinert, Enste- 
hung , etc. (in the Dorpt. Beitr. i, 1-304; ii, 1-232); 
Jeitteles, etc. (Vienna, 1835, 8vo); *Bertheau, 

Erhliir. (in tlie Kurtzgef. Exeg. Ildb. Lpz. 18G2, 8vo). 
See Old Testament. 

4 . (Sept. "E£oa v. r. "E<y£p«c, Vulg. Esdras.') One 
of the chief Israelites who formed the first division 
that made the circuit of the walls of Jerusalem when 
reconstructed (Xeh. xii, 33). B.C. 446. 

Ezracli. See Bay-tree. 

Ez'rah (Heb. Ezmh\ help , another form of 

Ezer or Ezra; Sept. ’EopqVulg. Ezra , A. V. “ Ezra”), 
a descendant of Judah (as if in the line of Caleb), and 
the father of several sons, although his own parentage 
is not given (1 Chron. iv, 17), unless he be identical 
with the Ezer of ver. 4, whose son’s name, however, 
does not correspond. B.C. ante 1618. See Mered. 
According to the author of the Qitcestiones in Paral. 
Ezra is the same as Am rani, and his sons Jether and 
Mered are Aaron and Moses; but this is out of the 
question. See also Ezraiiite. 

Ez'raliite (Hebrew, with the article ha-Ezracki 
as if a patronymic from Ezrach; Sept. 6 Z a- 
piTtjg v. r. 6 ’EZpa?)\iT>jc, Vulg. Ezrahitd ), a title at- 
tached to two persons — Ethan (1 Kings iv, 81; Psa. 
lxxxix, title) and lleman (Psa. lxxxviii, title). The 
word is naturally derivable from Ezrcdt , JT1TX, or — 
which is almost the same — Zerah , H jT ; and according- 
ly in 1 Chron, ii, 6, Ethan and Heman arc both given as 
sons of Zerah, the son of Judah. Another Ethan and 
another Heman are named as Levites and musicians 
in the lists of 1 Chron. vi and elsewhere. — Smith, s. v. 
In the passage first cited, “the Ezrahite,” or, rather, 
Ezrachite , appears as a designation applied to Ethan, a 
man famous for his wisdom (1 Kings v, 11 [A. V. iv, 
31]). See Ethan. In the inscription of Psa. lxxxix, 
Ethan the Ezrahite is named as its author ; and in the 
inscription of Psa. lxxxviii the same is said with re- 
spect to it of Heman the Ezrahite. This has led some 
to identify the Ethan and Heman, who were chief 
among the singers appointed by David (1 Chron. xv, 
15). But we have no reason to believe that, whatever 
skill these men had in music, they were famed for sur- 
passing wisdom ; and the inscription in the Psalms is 
perhaps due to the mistake of some one in whose mind 
the passage in Kings had got mixed up with 1 Chron. 
ii, 6, where Ethan and Heman appear among the sons 
of Zerah of the tribe of Judah. As “'H‘ , *TX is the same 
as h n““T with the prosthetic X, it is not improbable 
that in this last passage it is the Ethan of Kings that 
| is referred to ; but we cannot with certainty pronounce 
^ this, as there is a want of accordance between the 
l statement of the chronicler and that in Kings respect- 
ing the parentage of the other persons mentioned. It 
is not impossible, however, that the names “Heman, 
Calcol, and Dara” have been interpolated in the text 
of Chronicles from the passage in Kings, especially as 
the writer goes on to state only the descendants of 
Carmi or Zimri and Ethan (ver. 7, 8). In this case 
Ethan, the son of Zerah, may be Ethan the Ezrahite ; 
but there is no Heman the Ezrahite. — Kitto, s. v. A 
readier solution of the whole difficulty would he to 


FABER 


440 


FABER 


suppose that “ Ezrahitc” in the title to Psalm Ixxxviii 
is merety an orthographical variety for Izuarite 
(■nns?. 1 Chron. xxvi, 23), a Levitical family to 
which the musical Ilcman certainly belonged (1 Chron. 
vi, 33-38); and that the epithet has crept into the 
title of Psalm lxxxix bv assimilation of the names 
of Ethan and Ilcman so frequently associated together 
(these two Psalms being apparently closely related in 


authorship, and perhaps originally joined together; see 
Delitzseh, Commeniar ub. den Psalter , i, G53 sq.). See 
Zarihte. 

Ez'ri (Hcb. Ezri\ helpful; Sept. ’Ec jcpi v. r. 
\E£pai\Vulg. Ezri ), son of Chelub, superintendent for 
king David of those “who did the work of the lield 
for tillage of the ground” (1 Chron. xxvii, 2G). Ii.C. 
1014. 


F. 


Faber, Basil, a learned German Protestant di- 
vine, was born at Sorau, in Lower Lusatia, about 1520, 
studied at Wittenberg under Melancthon, was rector 
of the gymnasium at Xordhausen, 1550-55, and after- 
wards of Quedlinbnrg, 15G3-70. lie opposed Melanc- 
tlion’s Corpus Doctrinee and the Crypto-Calvinists, and 
in 1570 had to leave Quedlinbnrg on this account. lie 
then taught at Erfurt till his death, 1576. II is chief 
work is the Thesaurus eruditionis scholastics (Lips. 
1571 ; lasted. Francft. 1749, 2 vols. fol.), a work which 
still commands consideration for its extensive and ex- 
act learning. He was also one of the writers of the 
Magdeburg Centuries (q. v.). 

Faber (or Fabri), Felix, a Dominican monk and 
Oriental traveller, was born in Zurich, 1441-2, and 
was educated by the Dominicans at llasel. lie early 
entered the Dominican order, and was made chief 
preacher in the cloister at Ulm, 1478. His studies 
were directed to the illustration of the lliblc lands, 
and he made two journeys to the East, one in 1180 to 
Jerusalem, and one in 1483-4 to Palestine, Egypt, and 
Sinai. lie died March 14, 1502. His principal writ- 
ings are Ecagatorium in Terrs Sands , Arabice ct 
sEgyptie peregrinationem (republished Stuttg. 1843-9, 
3 vols. Svo) : — Uistoria Suevorum (Francft. 1G05 ; Ulm, 
1727). — Quctif et Ecliard, Script. Ord. Pried. vol. i ; 
Herzog, Real-Encyldopddie, iv, 30G. 

Faber, George Stanley, D.D., an English di- 
vine and voluminous writer, was born Oct. 25, 1773, 
and was educated at the grammar-school of Hcppen- 
holme, and at University College, Oxford, where he 
passed ILA. in 1792. In 1801, as Hampton lecturer, 
he preached before the University the discourses which 
lie afterwards published under the title of Hors Mosa- 
ics. In 1802 he became curate to his father at Cal- 
verlev, Yorkshire ; in 1805 he was made vicar of 
Stockton-upon-Tees ; in 1811 vicar of Long-Newton, 
where he remained till 1831, when bishop Burgess pre- 
sented him to a prebend in the cathedral of Salisbury. 
In 1832 he -was made master of Sherburn Hospital, 
near Durham. “During his mastership he consider- 
ably increased the value of the estates of the hospital, 
lie rebuilt the chapel, the house, and the oflices, and 
greatly improved the grounds ; he augmented the in- 
comes of the incumbents of livings under his patron- 
age, restored the chancels of their churches, and erect- 
ed agricultural buildings on the farms. He died at 
his residence, Sherburn Hospital, Jan. 27, 1851.” Dr. 
Faber’s chief writings are on prophecy, and in them 
he seeks to show' that the prophecies “are not applica- 
ble to the destinies of individuals, but to those of gov- 
ernments and nations.” 1 1 is most important writings 
are Hors Mosaics, or a Dissertation <n the Credibility 
and Theology of the Pentateuch (Banipton Lecture, Lon- 
don, 1*01, 2 vols. 8vo ; 2d ed. 1818, 2 vols. 8vo) :—A 
Dissertation on th° Mysteries of the Cabyri, or the great 
Cods of Phoenicia , Samothrace , Egypt , Troas , Greece , 
Italy , and Crete (Oxford, 1803, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Disserta- 
tion on (he Prophecies that have been fulfilled , are now 
fulfilling, or will hereafter be fulfilled , relative do the 
great Period of 1260 Years (Loml. 180(5, 2 vols. 8vo; 3d 
ed. 1*1 1 18,3 vols. Svo): — A general and' connected 
View of the Prophecies relating to the Conversion , Resto- 


ration , Union , and future Glory of Judah and Israel 
(Lond. 1808, 2 vols. Svo ): — The Origin of Pagan Idol- 
atry (Loud. 181G, 3 vols. 4to ) : — A Treatise on the Ge- 
nius and Object of the Patriarchal , the Levitical , and 
the Christian Dispensation (Lond. 1823, 2 vols. 8vo) : — 
The sacred Calendar of Prophecy (Lond. 1828, 3 vols. 
Svo; 1844, 3 vols. 12mo ): — Eight Dissertations on cer- 
tain connected prophetical Passages of holy Scriptures 
bearing more or less upon the Promise of a mighty De- 
liverer (Lond. 1845, 2 vols. Svo ) : — Treatise on the Iloly 
Spirit (London, 1813, 8vo ): — Difficulties of Infidelity 
(Lond. 1824, Svo ; N. Y. 1854, 12mo) : — Difficulties of 
Romanism (Lond. 1826, Svo ): — On expiatory Sacrifice 
(Lond. 1827, Svo ): — Primitive Doctrine of Justification 
(London, 1837, Svo ): — Apostolicity rf Trinitariunism 
(Lond. 1832, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Primitive Doctrine of Elec- 
tion (Lond* 1842, 2d ed. Svo ; Philad. 1842) : — Provin- 
cial Letters from the County Palatine cf Durham , exhib- 
iting (he. Nature and Tendency of the Principles put forth 
by the 11 r riters of’ i Tracts for the Times f and their va- 
rious Allies (1842, 2 vols. 12mo ): — The many Mansions 
in (he House of (he Father script urally discussed and 
practically considered (1851, Svo) . — Primitive Doctrine 
of Regeneration (Lond. 1840 Svo ): — The Valle uses and 
Albigenscs (London, 1838, Svo): — The Revival of the 
French Emperorship anticipated from the Necessity of 
Prophecy (Lond. 1853, 12mo ; N. Y. 1859, 12nio). — Eng- 
lish Cyclopedia ; Wesleyan Magazine , Nov. 1856. 

Faber (Fevre, de la Boderie), Gui, a French 
theologian, was born at Boderie, Normandy, Aug. 9, 
1541. He became secretarj' of the duke of Aleneon, 
and died in 1598. He w'as a good linguist, and took 
part in preparing the Antwerp Polyglot, for which he 
furnished the Syriac of the N. T. w ith a Latin trans- 
lation. He also composed a Chaldaic and a Syriac 
Grammar, and a Svro-Chaldaic Lexicon, and edited the 
works of Severus, patriarch of Alexandria, on baptism 
and the Eucharist, in Syriac, with a Latin translation, 
and translated Marsil. Fieinus and other writers into 
French. — Herzog, Real-Encyklopadie , iv, 313; Hoefer, 
Nouv. Bicg. Generate, xxx, 342. 

Faber, Jacobus ( Lefevre Jacques ), doctor of the 
Sorbonnc, and grand vicar of Bourgcs, was born at 
Coutances, became doctor of the Sorbonne in 1674, 
and died at Paris July 1, 1716. He wrote a number of 
pamphlets against the Protestants, as well as against 
Arnauhl, Maimbourg, and Natalis Alexander; and 
also a defense of the Sorbonne against the Jesuits, for 
which he was for a time imprisoned in the Bastile. — 
Feller, Dictionnaire Ilistorique , vii, 79 ; Hoofer, Nouv. 
IJiog. Generate , xxx, 343. 

Faber, J acobus Stapulensis ( Favre , or Le Fe- 
vre d'Etciples Jacques), an eminent, scholar, one of the 
most zealous of his age for the revival of ancient learn- 
ing, w'as born about 1450 (1455?) at Etaples, a village 
of Picardy. He was educated at the University of 
Paris, in which he studied mathematics, philosophy, 
and finally theology. He studied Greek with 11 er- 
monymus of Sparta at Paris. In 1492 he travelled 
into Italy, and studied Aristotle at Florence, Pome, 
and Venice ; and on his return to Paris lectured on 
Aristotle’s w ritings, and translated a number of them 


FABER 


441 


FABER 


into Latin. In 1507 he took up his abode in the Ben- 
edictine abbey of St. Germain des Pres, with Bri<;on- 
net, the abbot, who was his pupil and intimate friend. 
Here he remained till 1520, engaged chiefly in Bibli- 
cal studies, the first published fruit of which was his 
Psaltenum Qniritujdex, in five columns, Gallicum , Ro- 
manian , Ilebraicum , Yet us, Conciliation (Par. 1509, fol). 
lie wrote also Comment arius in Psahnos , etc. (Paris, 
1515) : — Commentarius in Epist. Catholicas (Basil, 1527, 
fob): — Commentarius in Quat. Evang. (Meld. 1522): — 
De Tribus Magilalenis (Par. 1531). lie was suspected 
of Lutheranism, and the Parliament of Paris was about 
to proceed against him in 1521 ; but in 1523, Briconnet, 
now bishop of Meaux, made him his general vicar, and 
he removed to Meaux. lie was afterwards deprived 
of his doctors’ degree, and compelled to retire to Gui- 
enne. Before this, at the request of the queen of Na- 
varre, he had commenced a translation (from the Vul- 
gate) of the N. T. into French, which appeared in 1523. 
This work was intended for common readers, and was 
soon widely scattered. “The effect of the dissemina- 
tion of this version of the Word of God, which form- 
ed the basis for the subsequent translation of Robert 
Olivetanus, so important in the history of the progress 
of Protestantism in France, w'as at once visible. The 
copies were eagerly sought; the poor received the 
Gospel gratuitously w T hen they could not even pay the 
small sum demanded, from the liberality of the good 
bishop. Brii^onnet introduced the French Scriptures 
into the churches of Meaux, where the people listened 
to the lessons in an intelligible language and w'ere 
delighted. An autograph letter, recently discovered 
among the rich treasures of the public library of Ge- 
neva, from Lefevre to his absent pupil Farel, pictures 
to us the immediate results of the publication, and the 
glowing hopes of the reformer. He writes: ‘Good 
God, with what joy do I exult when I perceive that 
the grace of the pure knowledge of Christ has already 
spread over a good part of Europe ; and I hope that 
Christ is at length about to visit our France with this 
benediction. You can scarcely imagine with what ar- 
dor God is moving the minds of the simple in some 
places to embrace his Word since the l ooks of the New 
Testament have been published in French ; but you 
w r ill justly lament that they have not been more wide- 
ly scattered among the people. Some enemies have 
endeavored, under cover of the authority of the Par- 
liament, to hinder the work ; but our most generous 
king has become in tills matter the defender of the 
cause of Christ, declaring it to be his will that his king- 
dom shall hear the word of God without impediment 
in that tongue which it understands. Noiv through- 
out our entire diocese, on feast-days and especially on 
Sunday, both the Epistle and the Gospel are read to 
the people in their native tongue, and the parish priest 
adds a word of exhortation to the Epistle or Gospel, 
or both at his own discretion’ (Letter of Lefevre, dated 
Meaux, July 0, 1524, in the Bulletin de la Soviet e de 
Vllistoire dn Protcstantisme Francois, t. xi [1862], p. 
212, 213),” cited by Baird, Methodist Quarterly Review , 
1864, p. 412. 

Faber was not fitted for the strife and storm of the 
times, and to secure quiet, be lived for several years 
as librarian to the palace at Blois, where he prepared 
a French translation (from the Vulgate) of the 0. T., 
which appeared in Antwerp in 1528 (4 vols. 8vo). All 
his affinities, both from study and friendship, being 
with the Reformation, his last years were embittered 
by the persecutions suffered by his friends, though he 
never left the Roman Church. But he “ well deserved 
the name of the forerunner of the Reformation ; for in 
1512, five years before Luther posted his theses on the 
doors of the cathedral at Wittemberg, he published his 
Commentary on the Epistles of St. Paul, which clearly 
proclaimed the insufficiency of w'orks, and the neces- 
sity of faith, as the ground of justification for the sin- 
ner. An affecting incident is told of his last hours. 


While sitting at the royal table, a few days before his 
death, Lefevre w’as observed to weep, whereupon queen 
Margaret complained of the sadness of one whose so- 
ciety she had sought for her own diversion, and asked 
the occasion of his sorrow. ‘ How can I minister to 
the joy of others, who am myself the greatest sinner 
upon earth ?’ was Lefevre’s mournful and unexpected 
response. Pressed to explain himself, the old man, af- 
ter admitting that through a long life he had main- 
tained exemplary morality of conduct, exclaimed in 
words frequently interrupted by sobs: ‘ Ilow shall I 
be able to stand at God’s tribunal, who have taught 
others the purity of the Gospel ? Thousands have suf- 
fered and died in defence of the doctrine in which I 
instructed them ; and 1, unfaithful shepherd that I am, 
after reaching so advanced an age, when I ought to 
love nothing less than life, or rather to desire death, 
have basely avoided the martyr’s crown, and betrayed 
the cause of my God !’ The queen and the other per- 
sons who were present administered such consolation 
to the pious Lefevre as they could find, and shortly 
afterwards he died, relying on the forgiveness of his 
Maker, leaving his library to his disciple, Gerard Rous- 
sel, and the rest of his scanty property to the poor. 
'1 he truth of this story, w hich rests upon the authority 
I of Hubert Thomas, counsellor of state and secretary 
of the elector palatine, has been discredited by Bayle 
in his Critical Dictionary, and after him by Tabaraud 
in the liv graphic Universelle , and more lately by Ilaag, 
in his great work on French Protestant Biography. 
All rest their rejection of the story chiefly upon the 
entire silence of the Reformers, who might w ell he ex- 
pected to notice so suggestive an occurrence, were it 
indeed authentic. But in this instance, as in so many 
others, it has been proved how unreliable are all such 
arguments. With singular good fortune, M. J ules Bon- 
net has recently discovered among the unexplored 
treasures of the Geuevese public library a minute, 
in the handwriting of the reformer Farel, which de- 
monstrates the truth of the circumstances described 
by Hubert Thomas. He writes : ‘ Our master, Jacques 
Lefevre, of Etaples, when suffering from the disease 
by w hich he died, was for some days so greatly ter- 
rified by the judgment of God that he cried out that 
his fate was sealed, saving that lie was eternally lost 
because he had not openly professed the truth of God. 
This complaint he continued to utter day and night. 
When Gerard Roussel admonished him to 1 e of good 
courage and trust in Christ, lie answered, “I am con- 
demned ; I have concealed the truth which I ought to 
have professed and openly borne witness to.’’ It was 
a fearful sight to see so pious an old man so distressed 
in mind and so overwhelmed by so great a dread of 
the judgment of God. At length, how ever, freed from 
his fears, he began to entertain a good hope in Christ’ 
(published for the first time in the Bulletin de la Sociite 
de V Hist oi re du Protestantisme Francois, t. ix [1862], p. 
214,215).” — Baird, in Methodist Quarterly Renew, 1864, 
p. 41. He died at Nerac in 1536 (1537 ?). A full ac- 
count of his writings may he found in the Zdtschi ift 
fur histor. Theol. (1852), parts i, ii. See_ also Graf, Es- 
sai sur la vie ct les ecrits de Lefevre d' Etaples (Strasb. 
1842) ; Hoofer, Nom\ Eiograph. Generate, xxx. 334 sq. ; 
Haag, La France Protest ante ; Herzog, Rcal-Emyllop . 
iv, 310; Krug, II and icorte rluch d. Philos, ii, 2 sq.; Du- 
I pin, Eccles . History , 16th cent. p. 436. 

Faber. Johann (named Malleus II.erettco- 
rum from one of his books against Protestants'), arch- 
bishop of Vienna, was born at Leutkirch, in Suabia, 
in 1478, and studied at Freiburg. He early entered 
the Dominican order. His talents secured him rapid 
J advancement. In 1519 the bishop of Constance made 
him his vicar general, and in 1526 he was made con- 
fessor to Ferdinand (afterwards emperor). At first his 
| literary associations made him friendly with Erasmus 
and CEeolampadius, and especially with Zwingle, and 
I he opposed the sale of indulgences in Switzerland 


FABER 


442 


FABIANUS 


strenuously. But about 1520 he went rapidly round 
to the other- extreme of opinion, and in 1522 appeared 
his Opus ad versus nova quad an dogmata M. Lutheri. 
After this he was an unwearied opponent of the Kefor- 
mntiou in writings, colloquies, conferences, etc. His 
zeal was rewarded by the bishopric of Vienna, to which 
lie was raised in 1531. lie. died in 1541. 11 is princi- 

pal writings are the Malleus Jlenreticorum (1524, and 
Koma*, 1569; a revision ot‘ the Opus above named), 
and sermons and controversial writings collected into 
3 vols. fol. (Cologne, 1537-1541). — Dupin. Eccles. Hist. 
cent, xvi, p. 433: Kettner, Uiss. de I. Fubri Vita et 
Scriptis (Lips. 1735, 4to); Herzog, Real-Encgklop. iv, 
307 : lloefer, Xoue. Biog. Generate , xvi, 894. 

Faber, Johannes, a Dominican monk and po- 
lemical writer, born at Heilhronn,1504. His eloquence 
and learning gained him early distinction, and in 1534 
he was made cathedral-preacher at Augsburg. He 
wrote largely against the Reformation. Among his 
writings are Enchiridion Bibliorum (Augsb. 1549, 4to) : 
— Fructus qnibus dignoscuntuv hceretici (Augsb. 1551, 
4to) : — Quod fides esse jiossit sine charitate (Augsb. 1548, 
4to): — Joel’s Prophet ie erkldrt : — Testimonium Scriptu- 
re et Pat rum, Petrum Apostolum Romrefuisse, etc. See 
Echard, Scnpt. ord. Prced. ii, 1G1 ; AVetzer uud Welle, 
Kirchen-Lex. iii, 870. 

Faber, Johannes, of Augsburg, a Dominican 
monk of the lGth century, confessor of the emperor 
Maximilian, and afterwards court-preacher of Charles 
V. Erasmus calls him “a mild, eloquent, and learned 
man.” He at first wished mild counsels to he follow- 
ed against Luther, and sympathized with Erasmus, 
but afterwards seems to have changed his views. He 
died about 1531. — Hoefer, Four. Biog. Gener. xv, 894. 

Faber, Johann Ernst, a distinguished German 
Orientalist, was born near Hihllmrghauscn (Saxony), 
February, 1745. lie prepared for the university in 
the gymnasium at Coburg, and studied under Walch, 
lleyne, and Michaelis at the University of Gottingen. 
In 1770 he was called to the chair of Oriental lan- 
guages at the University of Kiel, and in 1772 to the 
same position at the University of Jena, where he died 
March 15 [April 14?], 1774. Ilis most important works 
are, Bescriptio commenfarii in septuaginta interpret. 
(Getting. 17G8-9, 2 vols. 4to): — Dissertat. de animali- 
bus quorum fit mentio Zephan. ii, 14 (ibid. 1769, 4to; re- 
printed in the Monuments scythes de la Palestine by Cra- 
mer, I lamb, and Keil, 1777): — Ilistoria Marmce inter 
Hebraos (pars i, Kiel, 1770 ; pars ii, Jena, 1773): — Pro- 
gramma novum de Messia exactis 490 annis post exilium 
Judcvorum Babylonicum nascituro ex Zach. iii, 8, 9, 10; 
repetition vaticinium , spatio LXX, hebdomadum Dan. ix, 
24 (ibid. [1771 ?] 1772, 4to) : — Jesus ex natalium oppor- 
tunitate Messias (Jena, 1772, 8vo) : — A rclueologie der 
Jlebraer , vol. i (Halle, 1773, 8vo). Faber was also au- 
thor of an Arabic Grammar and Chrestomathy, which 
he published at Jena in 1773. — Pierer, Univ. Lex. vi, 
53; Biog. Universe lie, xiv, 5; Kitto, Cycl. of Bibl. Lit. 
iii, 1 ; Doering, Theol. Deutschland s, i, 390. (J. H. W.) 

Faber, Johann Melchior, was horn Jan. 18, 
1743, near Hildburghausen (Saxony), and was educa- 
ted at the gymnasium of Coburg and at the University 
ot Gottingen. In 17G8 he was appointed professor of 
Hebrew and Greek at the gymnasium of Thorn (Prus- 
sia); in 1770 he was called ^o Coburg as professor 
of Greek and Rhetoric; and four years later (1774) 
he was made rector of the gymnasium at Ansbach. 
In 1795 he became church-counsellor (Kirchenrath). 
He died January 31, 1809. A lost of his writings 
were published in the form of programmes. lie was 
also a contributor to the Bepertorium fur biblische 
und morgenliindische Literatur , and to Gahler's Theo- 
logisches Journal. The most important of his theo- 
logical programmes are, Progrjimmata sex super libro 
Sapient hr (Ansbach, 1776-77, 4to ; of which a second 
part, ibid. 1< 86-89, 4to): — Observations in Epistolam 


Jacobi ex Syro (ibid. 1771, 4to) : — De templorum apud 
Christlanos antiquitute dubia (ib. 1774, 4to): — Litteras 
olim pro vocibus in numerando a scriptoribus V. T. esse 
adhibitas (ibid. 1775, 4to) : — Unde origo doctrmce de im- 
mortalite imimorum repetenda videatur (ibid. 1773, 4to): 
— In loca qacedam Ilubaeuci Prophetee (ibid. 1773, 4to): 
— In Malachiam Prophetam (ibid. 1779, 4to) : — Quo Eu- 
sebiance de Jacobi, f rat ris Jesu , vita el morte narrationis 
partes quad am explicantur ac defenduntur (ibid, 1793, 
4to) : — Harmonia Maccubceoriim (pars i, ibid. 1794 ; pars 
ii, 1797, 4to). — Doering, Theologen Deutschlands , i, 395; 
Kitto, Cyclop, of Bibl. Lit. ii, 1. (J. H. W.) 

Faber, Petrus {Pierre Favre), born in Saxony, 
1506, was one of the nine original companions of Loy- 
ola in the establishment of the order of Jesuits. He 
was a zealous coadjutor of Loyola, and rendered great 
service to the interests of the new order by his mis- 
sionary journeys into Italy, Spain and Germany. He 
died in 1546, on his way to the Council of Trent. His 
life, by Orlandini, was published at Rome, 1615, fol. ; 
Lyons, 1617, 8vo. — Migne, Diet, de Biographic, ii, 156. 
See Loyola ; J esuits. 

Faber (. Favre ), Pierre Francois, a Roman Cath- 
olic divine, was born about the opening of the 18th 
century, at St.Barthelemie, canton de Vaud. He was 
priest at Latidun, in Lower Languedoc, when chosen 
by the bishop of Halicarnassus, Francois de la Baume, 
personal secretary and confessor on his visitation-tour 
to Cochin China. They reached Macao July 15, 1738, 
and were there, under the pretence of being entertain- 
ed ns visitors, kept as prisoners of the Jesuits some 
eight months. On their arrival in Cochin China in 
May, the bishop commenced his visitation work among 
the missionaries. The converted natives complained, 
bitterly against certain missionaries who had excom- 
municated them under pretence of Jansenism, but real- 
ly on account of their refusal to adhere to the heathen 
ceremonies and funeral sacrifices which the Jesuits al- 
lowed their Chinese converts to follow. The bishop 
took the side of the people, and was accused b} 1 - the 
Jesuits before the mandarins as a disturber of the pub- 
lic peace, and he, as well as his secretary, narrowly 
escaped execution. The bishop appointed Favre his 
agent to visit the Southern provinces. The opposition 
with which both were met by the Jesuits shortly after- 
wards inclined the bishop to divide the country be- 
tween the Jesuits, the French missionaries, and the 
Franciscans. The death of the bishop was hastened 
by sorrow and ill treatment as Faber has it, or by poi- 
son as one of the Franciscans reported to Rome. Fa- 
ber attempted to assume the duties of his position as 
agent, but, finding that he could not act with success 
against the opposition of the Jesuits, he returned to 
Rome August 8, 1741, in order to report to the propa- 
ganda and to the pope. But even in Rome he found 
the Jesuits beforehand in undermining him by slander 
and every other means in their power, and the decree 
of the pope did not appear until Faber had almost 
abandoned the hope of ever receiving it. This decree 
(issued 1745) in the main sanctioned the acts of Faber 
and his predecessor. He gives a full account of the 
mission in Lettres edif antes et curieuses sur la visile 
apostoliqne de M. de la Baume, Evtque d' HaUearnusse, 
a la Cochinchine en 1740; oil Ion voit les voyages et les 
tnmiux de ce zele Prelat, la couduite des Missionaires 
Ji'suites, et de qnelques autres, avec de nouvelles observa- 
tions, etc. The work was condemned by the bishop at 
Lausanne, and was publicly burned at Freiburg. All 
copies that could be procured the Jesuits bought lip, in 
order to prevent its circulation. An extract is given 
by Simlcr in his Samml. a. u. n. Urhinden zur Bcleuch- 
tung der Kirchengescli , i, 195-256. — Herzog, Real-Ency - 
klop. iv, 309. 

Faber Tanaquil. See Lefebvre Tanneguy. 

Faber the Oratorian. See Fabre. 

Fabianus (pope) is recorded as the 19th bishop 


FABLE 


443 


FABLE 


of Rome, from 236 to 250, but there is some dispute 
both as to his name and as to the time of his episco- 
pate. In the Alexandrian Chronicle he is ealled Fla- 
vianus. Eusebius gives an account of certain wonders 
that happened on his election to the bishoprie. “The 
faithful had assembled in a church for the purpose of 
the election, and several persons of consideration were 
proposed, without any thought of Fabianus, though lie 
was present. Of a sudden, a white dove descended 
from above and alighted on his head. Then the faith- 
ful, recalling to their recollection that the Holy Spirit 
had manifested itself in a like form at the baptism of 
Jesus Christ, exclaimed that God had exhibited to 
them his will. Immediately Fabianus was proclaimed 
pope, and conducted to the episcopal see without oth- 
er formality than the imposition of hands” (Hist. Ec- 
cles. vi, 20). From this fable the court of Home de- 
rives support for its theory that the Holy Ghost al- 
ways directs in the election of a pope. Cardinal Cusa 
says that “ what happened in the election of Fabianus 
happens to every pope, though we do not see it with 
our natural eyes. In vain, electors, are all your in- 
trigues ; the person on whose head the heavenly dove 
perches will, in spite of them, be eliosen” (De Hleth. 
Consistorii , vii, 85). We have had strange illustrations 
of tliis in Borgia and others. Fabianus suffered mar- 
tyrdom in Decius’s persecution, A.D. 250. See Acta 
Sanctorum, Jan. 20; Tillcmont, Memoires, hi, 3G4; A. 
Butler, Lives of Saints , Jan, 20 ; Bower, History of the 
Poj>es (London, 1750), i, 47. 

Fable (f. ivSoc, a myth'), a legend or fictitious story, 
applied in the N. T. (i Tim. i, 4 ; iv, 7 ; 2 Tim. iv, 4 ; 
Titus i, 14 ; 2 Pet. i, 16) to the Jewish traditions and 
speculations wliieli were prevalent in the apostolie 
days, and were afterwards embodied in the Talmudieal 
writings. (See Fleisclnnann's Comment, in 1 Tim. i, 4.) 

1. Taking the words fable and parable, not in their 
striet etymological meaning, but in that whieh has 
been stamped upon them by current usage, looking, 
i. e. at the JEsopie fable as the type of the one, at the 
parables of the X. T. as the type of the other, wc have 
to ask (a.) in what relation they stand to each other 
as instruments of moral teaching? (b.) what use is 
made in the Bible of this or of that form ? That they 
have much in common is of course obvious enough. 
In both we find “statements of faets, whieh do not 
even pretend to be historical, used as vehicles for the 
exhibition of a general truth” (Neander, Life of Christ , 
Harper’s ed. p. G7). Both differ from the Myth us, 
in the modern sense of that word, in being the result 
of a deliberate clioiee of such a mode of teaching, not 
the spontaneous, unconscious evolution of thought in 
some symbolic form. They take their plaec so far as 
species of the same genus. What are the characteris- 
tic marks by whieh one differs from the other, it is 
perhaps easier to feel than to define. Thus we have 
(comp. Trench, On Parables , p. 2) (i.) Lessing’s state- 
ment that the fable takes the form of an actual narra- 
tive, while the parable assumes only that what is re- 
lated might have happened ; (ii.) Herder’s, that the 
difference lies in the fable’s dealing with brute, or in- 
animate nature, in the parable's drawing its materials 
exclusively from human life; (iii.) Olshausen’s (on 
Matt, xiii, 1), followed by Trench (l. c.), that it is to 
be found m the higher truths of whieh the parable is 
the vehicle. Perhaps the most satisfactory summing 
up of the chief distinctive features of each is to be 
found in the following extraet from Neander (l. c.) : 
“The parable is distinguished from the fable by this, 
that in the latter, qualities or aets of a higher class of 
beings may be attributed to a lower (e. g. those of men 
to brutes), while in the former the lower sphere is 
kept perfeetly distinct from that which it seems to 
illustrate. The beings and powers thus introduced 
always follow the law of their nature, but their aets, 
aeeording to this law, are used to figure those of a 
higher race. . . . The mere introduction of brutes as 


personal agents in the fable is not sufficient to distin- 
guish it from the parable which may make use of the 
same contrivance ; as, for example, Christ employs 
the sheep in one of his parables. The great distinction 
here, also, lies in what has already been remarked; 
brutes introduced in the parable aet aeeording to the 
law of their nature, and the two spheres of nature and 
of the kingdom of God are carefully separated from 
each other. Henee the reciprocal relations of brutes 
to each other are not made use of, as. these could fur- 
nish no appropriate image of the relation between man 
and the kingdom of God.” 

Of the fable as thus distinguished from the parable 
we have but two examples in the Bible : (1.) that of 
the trees choosing their king, addressed by Jotham to 
the men of Sheehem (Judg. ix, 8-15) ; (2.) that of the 
cedar of Lebanon and the thistle, as the answer of Jc- 
hoash to the challenge of Amaziah (2 Kings xiv, 9). 
The narrative ofEzek. xvii, 1-10, though, in common 
with the fable, it brings before us the lower forms of 
ereation as representatives of human characters and 
destinies, differs from it in the points above noticed, 
[1.] in not introducing them as having human attri- 
butes; [2.] in the higher prophetie character of the 
truths conveyed by it. The great eagle, the eedar of 
Lebanon, the spreading vine, are not grouped together 
as the agents in a fable, but are simply, like the bear, 
the leopard, and the lion in the visions of Daniel, sym- 
bols of the great monarehies of the world. 

In the two instances referred to, the fable has more 
the character of tbe Greek alvog, or supernatural tale 
(Quintil. Inst. Orat. v, 11), than of the yvCoQ, or myth; 
that is, is less the fruit of a vivid imagination, sport- 
ing with the analogies between the worlds of nature 
and of men, than a covert reproof, making the sarcasm 
which it affeets to hide all the sharper (Muller and 
D< naldson, Piston/ of Greek Literature , vol. i, e. xi). 
The appearance of tbe fable thus early in the history 
of Israel, and its entire absenee from the direet teach- 
ing both of the O. and N. T., are, eaeh of them in its 
way, significant. Taking the received chronology, 
the fable of Jotham was spoken about B.C. 1209. The 
Arabian traditions of Lokman do not assign to him an 
earlier date than that of David. The earliest Greek 
cuvoq , or proper fable, is that of Hesiod (Oj). et D. v, 
202), and the prose form of the fable does not meet us 
till we eomc (about B.C. 550) to Stesiehorus and yEsop. 
The first example in the history of Rome is the apo- 
logue of Menenius Agrippa, B.C. 491, and its genuine- 
ness has been questioned on the ground that the fable 
eould hardly at that time have found its way to Lati- 
uin (Muller and Donaldson, l. c.). It may be notiecd, 
too, that when collections of fables became familiar to 
the Greeks, they were looked upon as imported, not in- 
digenous. The traditions that surround the name of 
iEsop, the absenee of any evklenee that he wrote fa- 
bles, tiie traces of Eastern origin in those aseribed to 
him, leave him little more than the representative of a 
period when the forms of teaching, which had long 
been familiar to the more Eastern nations, were trav- 
elling westward, and were adopted eagerly by the 
Greeks. The collections themselves are described by 
titles that indicate a foreign origin. They are Libyan 
(Arist. Phet: ii, 20), Cyprian, Cilieian. All these facts 
lead to the conclusion that the Hebrew mind, gifted, 
as it was, in a special measure with the power of per- 
ceiving analogies in things apparently dissimilar, at- 
tained, at a very early stage of its growth, the power 
whieh does not appear in the history of other nations 
till a later period. Whatever antiquity may be as- 
cribed to the fables in the comparatively later eollcc- 
tion of the Paneha Tranta, the land of Canaan is, so 
far as we have any data to eonelude from, the father- 
land of fable. To conceive brutes or inanimate ob- 
jects as representing human eharaetcristies, to per- 
sonify them as acting, speaking, reasoning, to draw 
lessons from them applicable to human life — this 


FABLE 444 FABLE 


must have been common among the Israelites in the 
time of the judges. The part assigned in the earliest 
records of the Bible to the impressions made by the 
brute creation on the mind of man when u the Lord 
God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of 
the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he 
would call them’’ (Gen. ii, 19), and the apparent sym- 
bolism of the serpent in the narrative of the Fall (Gen. 
iii, 1), are at once indications of teaching adapted to 
men in the possession of this power, and must have 
helped to develop it (Herder, deist der Ebrdischen Po- 
csie, 1 Ver/ce, xxxiv, p. 16, ed. 1826). The large num- 
ber of proverbs in which analogies of this kind are 
made the bases of a moral precept, and some of which 
(e. g. Prov. xxvi, 11 ; xxx, 15, 25-2S) are of the nature 
of condensed fables, show that there was no decline of 
this power as the intellect of the people advanced. 
The absence of fables accordingly from the teaching 
of the O. T. must be ascribed to their want of fitness 
to be the media of the truths which that teaching was 
to convey. The points in which brutes or inanimate 
objects present analogies to man arc chiefly those 
which belong to his lower nature, his pride, indolence, 
cunning, and the like, and the lessons derived from 
them accordingly do not rise higher than the pruden- 
tial morality which aims at repressing such defects 
(comp. Trench, On the Parables , 1. e.). Hence the fa- 
ble, apart from the associations of a grotesque and lu- 
dicrous nature which gather round it; apart, too, from 
its presenting narratives which are “nec verre nee ve- 
risimiles” (Cicero, De Invent, i, 19), is inadequate as 
the exponent of the higher truths which belong to 
man’s spiritual life. It may serve to exhibit the rela- 
tions between man and man ; it fails to represent those 
between man and God. To do that is the office of the 
parable, finding its outward framework in the deal- 
ings of men with each other, or in the world of nature 
as it is, not in any grotesque parody of nature, and 
exhibiting, in either case, real and not fanciful analo- 
gies. The fable seizes on that which man has in com- 
mon with the creatures below him ; the parable rests 
on the truths that man is made in the image of God, 
and that “all things arc double one against another.” 

It is noticeable, as confirming this view of the office 
of the fable, that, though those of ^Esop (so called) 
were known to the great philosopher of righteousness 
at Athens, though a metrical paraphrase of some of 
them was among the employments of his imprisonment 
(Plato, P/iTdo , p. 60, 61), they were not employed bv 
him as illustrations, or channels of instruction. While 
Socrates shows an appreciation of the power of such 
failles to represent some of the phenomena of human 
life, he was not, he says, in this sense of the word, pv- 
OoXoyiKog. The myths, which appear in the Gorgias, 
the Pk edru s’, the Pheedo, the Republic , are as unlike 
as possible to the ./Esopic failles, are (to take his own 
account of them) ov pu9ot dWa Adyot, true, though 
figurative, representations of spiritual realities, while 
the illustrations from the common facts of life which 
were so conspicuous in his ordinary teaching, though 
dilfering in being comparisons rather than narratives, 
come nearer to the parables of the Bible (compare the 
contrast between rd yhoKpartKdy as examples of the 
TrapafioXt) and the Adyot AiWuraoi, Aristot. Rhet. ii, 
20). It may be said, indeed, that the use of the fable 
as an instrument of teaching (apart from the embel- 
lishments of wit and fancy with which it is associated 
by such writers as Lessing and La Fontaine) belongs 
rather to childhood, and the child-like period of na- 
tional life, than to a more advanced development. In 
the earlier stages of political change, as in the cases 
of Jotham, Stesichorns (Aristot. Rhet. 1. e.), Menenius 
Agrippa, it is used as an element of persuasion or re- 
proof. It ceases to appear in the higher eloquence of 
orators and statesmen. The special excellence of fa- 
bles is that they arc cpjujyopiKoi (Aristot. Rhet , 1. c.) ; 
that “ducere amnios solcnt, pnecipno rusticorum et 


imperitorum” (Quintilian, Instil. Orat. 1. c.).— Smith, 
s. v. 

2. The pi'Ooty or “fables” of false teachers claiming 
to belong to the Christian Church, alluded to by writ- 
ers of the N. T. in connection with “endless genealo- 
gies” (jytveaXoytat inrkpavrot , 1 Tim. i, 4), or with dis- 
paraging epithets (“Jewish,” ’lovCaixoi, Tit. i, 14: 
“old wives’,” ypaioccic, 1 Tim. iv, 7 ; “cunningly de- 
vised,” GLuotyiapivoiy 2 Pet. i, 16), do not appear to have 
had the character of fables, properly so called. As 
applied to them, the word takes its general meaning 
of anything false or unreal. Thus Paul exhorts Tim- 
othy and Titus (1 Tim. i, 4 ; iv, 7 ; Titus i, 14) to shun 
profane and Jewish fables, as having a tendency to se- 
duce men from the truth. By these fables some un- 
derstand the reveries of the Gnostics; but the fathers 
generally, and most modern commentators, interpret 
them of the vain traditions of the Jews. The great 
reservoir of Jewish tradition is the book, or rather the 
books, called the Talmud. At the time of the Chris- 
tian a?ra, the traditions, as they were called, of the 
law (by which was meant the decisions of the doctors 
on disputed points of the Mosaic code, and the extrav- 
agant fables with which they adorned their comments) 
had attained so great a bulk and so high a degree of 
veneration as quite to supersede the law itself in the 
common estimation. These traditions, which were sup- 
posed to have been handed down, some from the a?ra 
of Moses, and some from a period far anterior, were, fur 
the most part, mere directions for ridiculous ceremo- 
nies, questions of absurd casuistry, and tables which 
by their absurdity alone would have disgusted any 
other nation. Some of these fables and legends are 
too impious and blasphemous to be quoted, but we se- 
lect a few specimens. Adam, of whose knowledge we 
can hardly form too high an idea, was said to be en- 
dued with magic. “ God,” say the Talmudists, “ gave 
him a precious jewel, the very sight of which would 
cure all diseases ; this came afterwards into the posses- 
sion of Abraham, but after his death, because, by rea- 
son of its exceeding brightness, it was likely to be wor- 
shipped, God hung it in the sun.” Our iirst parents 
were, according to rabbinical tradition, of a gigantic 
stature; and this legend has been borrowed and im- 
proved by the Mohammedans. The transmigration of 
souls is much insisted on in the Talmud, and the soul 
of Adam is said to have passed successively into the 
bodies of Noah and David; it will also pass into the 
Messiah. This doctrine they took from the Egyptian 
mythology, and it is still more ancient than their resi- 
dence in Egypt. Abraham was the person to whom, 
they say, it was first revealed, and he taught that the 
souls of men passed into women, beasts, birds, and 
even reptiles, rocks, and plants. The spirit of a man 
was punished by passing into a woman ; and if the 
conduct of the man had been very atrocious, it took 
some reptile or inanimate form ; and if a woman act 
righteously, she will, in another state, become a man. 
Thus the ass that carried Balaam, the ravens that fed 
Elijah, the whale that swallowed Jonah, arc all sup- 
posed to have possessed reasonable, transmigrated 
souls. The Mishna says, “The two tables of stone 
were upwards of two tons weight, but the moment 
God’s word and commandments were engraved there- 
on by the shannr , they became as light as a feather. 
M'lien Moses left the mount and came within sight of 
the molten calf, and heard the multitude shouting, he 
was alarmed; so that when the rays of the molten 
calf, which were of gold, came in contact with the ta- 
bles of stone, the letters thereon immediately flew 
away, and the tables of stone returned to their former 
weight, which was more than Moses could support, 
and therefore he threw them down, and they brake in 
pieces.” It is also said that Moses was the richest 
man that ever was or ever will he. His riches con- 
sisted of diamonds, which he obtained possession of in 
the same way that every laborer gets rewarded, by be- 


FABRE 


445 


FABRICIUS 


ing considered worthy of his hire, proses never look- 
ed for any emolument from the Jews, and God there- 
fore rewarded him in this manner. The two tables 
of stone were one solid mass of diamonds, and the chip- 
pings that came from the two tables were his own per- 
quisites. But what was truly wonderful and aston- 
ishing, as the chippings flew off, they became regular 
and beautiful in their form. This circumstance gave 
the wicked Jews occasion to charge him with breaking 
the tackles purposely, in order that he might have the 
opportunity to obtain more chippings. It is said that 
Elijah the prophet is going about the world as an am- 
bassador of God, and is everywhere present at one 
time, and is in his person a venerable old man, wear- 
ing a long beard. When Messiah shall appear, there 
will be a great feast, at which every Jew will be pres- 
ent, This feast will consist of fowl, of fish, and of 
flesh, which God created for the purpose at the begin- 
ning of the world. First, God provided a large fowl 
or bird, called Agal Loshder ; also a large ox, call- 
ed Shur Abur; and two large fish, called Leviathan. 
'When God created these two great fish, male and fe- 
male, being of such immense size, lest they should 
multiply, God slew the female, and buried it in salt, 
th?re to remain until it is wanted for this great feast. 
Then all the Jews that have been born, or that have 
existed since the creation of the world, will be restored 
to life. The table will be spread, and the provision 
placed upon it, and it is so ordained that each one 
will take his station according to his conduct in the 
present life. Moses will sit at the head of the table, 
and next to him Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and the 
prophets in rotation. Kabbi Simon says he was once 
sailing in the Great Sea, when he and the mariners 
espied a fish of such enormous size, that, although they 
had a fair wind, after they saw one eye of the fish, 
they sailed five days longer in a direct line before 
they reached the other eye of the same fish, which con- 
firmed his belief in the report of the size of the levia- 
than. Much also is related concerning the size of the 
ox, which is said to be so immense that he eats lip 
the whole of the grass that grows upon a thousand 
hills every day. The bird, also, is said to be of enor- 
mous size, and it is stated that one day this bird, in 
her flight, dropped an egg, which broke, and the yolk 
drowned fifty cities and villages (Stehelin, Jewish Tra- 
ditions. passim). See Talmud. 

In the genuine fables and traditionary narratives of 
remote antiquity, especially those of the ancient clas- 
sics, many correspondencies with the Biblical history 
are found, such as intimate that these traditions were 
derived from this history. Of such a nature are the 
tales concerning a golden age of our race, an apostasy, 
a general flood, a future restoration. It may with safe- 
ty he inferred from these traditions that the records in 
the book of Genesis concerning the apostasy, etc., are 
not philosophical myths ; for, were they nothing more 
than the emanations of some Hebrew philosopher, how 
could they have been spread abroad among all na- 
tions? These popular traditions point ns to the time 
when the human family were collected into one place, 
and afterwards separated into various branches. In 
this separation every tribe took with it the traditions 
that were common to all. See Mythology. 

Fabre. See Faber. 

Fable, Jean Claude, a French ecclesiastic and 
father of the Oratory, was horn at Paris in 1GG8, and 
died there Oct. 22, 1753. In an edition of Bichelet’s 
Dictionnaire he inserted some passages which brought 
him under censure, and he was forced to quit the Ora- 
torian order. He is chiefly known as the continuator 
of Fleury’s Histoire eccUsiastique , of which he prepared 
vols. xxi-xxxv. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xvi, 023. 

Fabri, I Ignore, a learned Jesuit, was b6rn at Bu- 
gey, in France, in 1G07. He entered the novitiate of 
the order of Jesuits at Avignon in 1G2G, taught philos- 


ophy and mathematics at the College of Lyons, and 
was subsequently called to Borne and appointed grand 
penitentiary. He was an indefatigable worker, and 
acquired great proficiency in almost every branch of 
learning, especially in natural sciences. He claimed 
to have taught the circulation of the blood before the 
publication of the celebrated work of Harvey on the 
subject. He died at Borne in 1G88. lie wrote sev- 
eral works in defense of the casuistic writers of his or- 
der against the attacks of the Jansenists: Pithanophi- 
lus (Borne, 1G59) : — Notce in Notas Wilhdmi Wendrockii 
ad Ludovici Montaltii Litteras (Cologne, 1G59) : — Ludo- 
vici Montaltii epistolary s Libelli ad provincialem refutati 
(Cologne, 1GG0) : — Apologeticus doctrince moralis socie- 
tatis Jesu (Lyons, 1G70) : — a summary of scholastic the- 
ology ( Summula theologica , Lyons, 1G99), and a large 
number of scientific, polemical, and other works. He 
! bequeathed his MSS. to the establishment of the Jes- 
uits at Lyons. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xvi, 945. 
(A.J. S.) 

Fabrica Ecclesiae, the name given in the Latin 
Church to a special fund for defraying the expenses 
for building and repairing the Church edifices of a par- 
ticular congregation. As early as the 5th century it was 
customary that one portion of the property of a partic- 
ular church should be set aside to this end. Accord- 
ing to the rescripts of the Boman bishops Simplicius 
(475) and Gelasius (494), it was to be the fourth part 
of the whole propert}^ of the church, while in Spain 
one third was used. The Council of Frankfort in 794 
declared that the holders of ecclesiastical benefices had 
the duty of keeping the church edifices in a proper 
condition, and this declaration was frequently con- 
firmed by imperial and ecclesiastical laws. Charles 
the Bald in 84G, besides confirming the same rule, or- 
dered that all the serfs of the Church should work for 
repairing the churches at least twenty days every 
year. The parishioners general!}' were lequired to 
co-operate for keeping the Church edifices in proper 
order. There were, however, widely different usages 
in different localities. The Council of Trent (sessio 
xxi, cap. vii) established as a general principle that 
building and repairing expenses should be defrayed 
from the general revenue of the Church; in case these 
are not sufficient, all the patrons and others who have 
any kind of income from the church, and, if necessa- 
ry, all the parishioners, are hound to co-operate to 
that end. This has since been the practice both in the 
Boman Catholic and in the Protestant state churches. 
The legislation of the first French empire (decree of 
1809) charged the civil community with the duty of 
keeping the church edifices of all the recognised re- 
ligions in good order. The civil laws of the European 
countries have many detailed provisions with regard 
to the subject, and in some points there is a wide dif- 
ference. — Herzog, Real- Ency klop. i, 737 ; Wetzer mid 
Welte, iv, 87G ; Helfert, Von d. Erbauung, ErlmUung v. 
Herstellung d. kirch. Gebdude (Prague, 1834). (A. J„ S.) 

Fabricius, Andreas, a Boman Catholic divine, 
w r as born at Hodege, a village of Liege, A.D. 1520. 
lie studied at Ingolstadt, and became professor of phi- 
losophy at Louvain. The bishop of Augsburg sent 
him as his agent to Borne, where he remained six 
years under the pontificate of Pius IV. He was after- 
wards councillor to the duke of Bavaria, and provost 
of Ottingen, in Snabia, where he died in 1581. His 
principal work was JIarmoma Confessionis Avgustinia- 
ncc (Cologne, 1573 and 1587, fob). He wrote also a 
Catechismus Romanus ex Decreto Coneilii Tridenthri, 
with notes and illustrations (1570 and 1574, 8vo), and 
some Latin tragedies. — Hook, Eccl. Biog.y, 48; Migne, 
Diet, de Biographie Chretiennc , ii, 135. 

Fabricius, Christoph Gabriel, a German di- 
vine, was born at Shackdorf, in Lusatia, May 18, 1G84, 
and was educated at the University of V’ittenberg. 
He served as pastor at Mullioritz and other places in 


FABRICIUS 


446 


FABRICIUS 


Lusatia, and died June 12, 1757. lie is noted espe- 
cially for liis bitter opposition to the modern Moravi- 
ans. lie wrote Das entlarvte llerrnhuth (Herrnhut 
unmasked, Wittenberg, 1743, 4to, and 1749, 8vo); Ent- 
dcckte herrnhiitiseke Satirerey (1749, 8vo), in which he 
seeks to prove that Zinzendorf and the modern Mora- 
vians are not the successors of the Bohemian Breth- 
ren. — Blog. Fniverselle , xiv, G2. 

Fabricius, Franciscus, a Dutch theologian, was 
born at Amsterdam April 10, 1G63. He studied theol- 
ogy and the Oriental languages at the University of 
Leyden, at which he afterwards filled the chairs of 
theology and rhetoric. He died July 27, 1738. His 
chief works are, 1. Christus unicum ac perpetuum fun- 
damentum Eccl.es /a?. (Leyden, 1717, 4to) : — 2. De Sucer- 
dotio Christ i ju.rta Ordinein Melchizedeci (ib. 1720, 4to) : 
— 3. Christologia Noachicci et Abrahamica (ib. 1733, 
4 to) : — 4. De Fide Christiana Patriarcharum et Prophe- 
tarum (ib. 4to): — 5. Orator S icer (ib. 1733, 4to), con- 
taining lectures on preaching. — Migne, Diet, de Biog- 
raphic Chredenne , ii, 13G; Blog. UniverseUe , xiv, Gl. 

Fabricius, Georgius, a German philologist, was 
born at Chemnitz April 24, 151G, and after a liberal 
course of education travelled to Italy, and spent a long 
time at Borne, the fruit of which was his Roma , anti - 
quitatis Monumenta , etc. (Basel, 1550 and 1557, 8vo). 
lie was endowed with some poetical talent, and wrote 
numerous sacred poems in Latin verse — Poematum 
Sacrorum lib. xv (Basel, 15G0, lGmo). From 1553 to 
his death (July 13, 1571) he was director of the college 
at Meissen. II is most important work is Poetarum 
veterum ecc/esiasdconmi opera Christiana , thesaurus ca- 
tholicte et orthodoxcc ecclcsice (Basel, 15G4, 4to), a very 
valuable collection of early Christian hymns and poe- 
try. — Niceron, Memoires , xxxii, 31; Hoefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, xvi, 958. 

Fabricius, Johannes, a German theologian, was 
born at Altorf Feb. 11, 1G44. After a very diligent 
course of study in theology and philosophy at the Uni- 
versity of Altorf, lie journeyed through Germany and 
Italy from 1G70 to 1077. On his return he became 
professor of theology at Altorf, where he remained 
twenty years. In 1G97 he became professor at Ilelm- 
stiidt, where he died, Jan. 29,1729. lie bore a high 
reputation for scholarship, and for his minute acquaint- 
ance with the Bomish controversy. His principal 
publications are, Dissertatio de Altaribus (Ilelmstadt, 
1G98, 4to) : — Anvxnitat.es theologies varii et selecti argu- 
menti (Helmst. 1G99, 4to) : — Jlistoria Biblloth. Rubrici- 
ans (Wolfenbuttel, 1717-24, G vols. 4to): — Considera- 
tio variarum cont roversiarum cum A theis, Gentilibus . . . 
Pondjims et R'formatis (1704; also 1715, confined to 
the controversies inter Evangelicos et Catholicos'). lie 
inherited the irenical tendencies of Calixtus (q. v.), 
and sought to show that the points of difference be- 
tween Bomanism and Protestantism arc not so great 
as they are generally held to be; lie even w'ent so far 
as to believe that a Protestant might lawfully go over 
to the Bomish Church. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gin. xvi, 
9G2 ; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. (N. Y. 1854), iii, 490. 

Fabricius, Johannes, a German Orientalist, was 
born at Dantzie in 1G08. After studying at several Ger- 
man universities, he completed his academical course 
at Leyden, where he studied Arabic and Persian under 
Golius. In 1G35 he began to lecture on Oriental lan- 
guages, and especially on Arabic, at Bostoek. After 
travelling, for literary purposes, over nearly all Eu- 
rope, he was made professor of Hebrew at Dantzie in 
1042, and died there in 1G53. Among his numerous 
publications are Dissertatio Philologica de Nomine Je- 
hova (Bostoek, 1G3G, 4to ) : — De Jncai'nadone Aoyor, con- 
tra Socinianos (Rostock, 1037, 4to ): — Specimen Arabi- 
cum (163*, 4to ): — Testamcntum Mokammedis liltine ex 
Gabrielis Shunts versiom (Bostoek, 1G38, 4,to). — J . A. 
Fabricius, Cmturia Fabriciorum ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. 
Generate, xvi, 9G2. 


Fabricius, Johannes Albert, “ the most learn- 
ed, most voluminous, and most useful of bibliogra- 
phers,” was born at Leipsic Nov. 11, 1GG8. He lost 
his parents at an earty age, but was sent to study at 
Quedlinburg, where, by reading Barthius’s A dcersai'ia, 
he was inspired with an ardent love of letters. He 
went to Hamburg in 1693, and spent five years as libra- 
rian for J. F. Mayer, dividing his time between preach- 
ing and study, till he w'as chosen professor of rhetoric 
and philosophy in the gymnasium of that city. In 
1719 the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel offered him the 
professorship of theology at Giessen, and the post of 
general superintendent of the churches of the Augs- 
burg Confession ; but the magistrates of Hamburg 
augmented his salary for the sake of keeping him, and 
of this he ever after retained so grateful a sense that 
no offers of preferment could tempt him to leave them. 
He died at Hamburg April 3, 173G, with the character 
of being one of the most learned of men. The list of 
his published writings exceeds 100 titles. 

Ilis principal works are, (1.) Codex Pseudejngraphus 
Ceteris Testamenti, Gr. et Lat. collect us, et Aniinadver- 
sionibtis illustratus (Hamb. 1713, 12mo ; 2d ed. with a 
supplementary volume, ib. 1722-23, 12mo) : — (2.) Codex 
Aj)ocryj)hus N. T. (2d ed. Hamb. 1719, 3 vols. i'ol.) : sec 
Apocrypha of N. T. : — (3.) Observations selectie in 
varia loca Nor. Test, variorum aiictorum (llamb. 1712, 
small Svo): — (4.) Bibliotheca A ndqnaria (Hamb. 1713; 
2d ed. 17G0, 2 vols. 4to), containing notices of all writ- 
ers on Hebrew, Greek, Roman, and Christian antiqui- 
ties: — (5.) Bibliotheca Ecclesiastica (Hamb. 1718, fob), 
collecting the works of a number of Latin ecclesiasti- 
cal writers : — (G.) Bibliotheca Grceca, sive nodtia Script. 

1 ’et. Grcecorum, quorumeunque monum. integ. aut. jragm. 
edita , extant (llamb. 1728, 14 vols. 4to). Of this in- 
valuable collection a fourth and enlarged edition, ed- 
ited bv Harles, was commenced in 1790, of which 12 
vols. had appeared up to 1811, extending to vol. xi, p. 
544 of the former edition: an Index to the whole was 
published in 1838 (4to). (7.) Collection of authors on 

Christian Evidences, under the title Delectus Argnmen- 
torum et Syllabus Scriptorum quz veritatem religionis 
Christiunce asscruerunt, etc. (Hamb. 1725, 4to) : — (8.) 
Bibliotheca Latina (Venice, 1728, 2 vols. 4to ; re-edited 
by Ernesti, Lips. 1774, 3 vols. 8vo) : — (9.) Bibliotheca 
med'ac ct injimw Ladnitatxs (best edit. Mansi’s, Radun, 
1754, G vols. 'I to) : — Ilydrotheologia, written in German, 
and translated into French under the title Thioh gie de 
V Eau, on Essai sur la Bond, la Sagessc, ct la Puissance 
de Dilu, manijesties dans la Creation de V Eau (La Haye, 
1741, Svo ) : — Conspectus Thesauri Litterarii Italia 1 (1749, 
Svo); or notices of the principal collections of the his- 
torians of Italy, as well as of other writers who have 
illustrated the antiquities, geography, etc., of that 
country, including the great works of Burmannus and 
Grasvius, with an account of the Italian literaiy jour- 
nals existing or which had existed before the time of 
Fabricius, of the Italian academies, and a catalogue 
of Italian bibliographers and biographers classed ac- 
cording to the particular towns which they have illus- 
trated : — Salutaris Lux Evangelii, sire Nodtia Propa- 
gatorum per Orbem totum Christ ianorum Sacrorum : 
accedimt Epistohe qnevdam inediUe Juliani hnperatoris, 
Grcgorii Ihibessini Theologia xEthiopica, necnon Index 
geographiens Episcopatuum Orbis Christiaui (1731, 4 to): 
— Ccndfolium Lutherannm, sive Nodtia I Mir aria Scrip- 
torn in omnis generis de Martino Lnthero, ejus Vita, 
Scripds, ct Rtformatione Ecclcsice editorum (1730, 2 
vols. Svo) : — Cmturia Fabriciorum Script, clarorum qui 
jam diem snam obierunt collecta (1709, 2 vols. Svo, with 
a continuation in 1727). The author has included 
in his list not only the authors whose name or sur- 
name was Fabricius, but also those whose names may 
be turned into the Latin Fabricius, such as Lefcvre, 
Fabri, the German Schmidts, etc. Independently of 
the above and other minor works, Fabricius published 
editions of Sextus Empiricus, of the Gallia Orientalis 


FABRICIUS 


447 


FACE 


of father Colonies, of the works of St. Hippolytus, and 
many others. For an account of his life and writings, 
see Reitnar, De vita it Script . J. A. Fabricii comment. 
(1737, 8vo). — Biographie Universelie , xiv, 54 sq. ; Eng- 
lish Cyclopedia, s. v. 

Fabricius, Johann Ludwig, a Swiss divine, 
was born at Schafflmusen in 1682 ; studied at Utrecht 
and Paris, and in 1G5G became pastor and professor, 
first of Greek, afterwards of theology, at Heidelberg. 
In 1G64 he was made councillor to the elector palatine 
in ecclesiastical affairs. When Heidelberg was taken 
by the French in 1688, he retired to Schaff hausen, and 
afterwards to Frankfort. On his return to Heidelberg, 
when the castle and city were set on fire in the bom- 
bardment, he saved the archives of the city and uni- 
versity, and carried them to Frankfort, where he died 
in 1097. Among his writings are Apologeticum pt'o 
Geneve liumano contra Calumniam Atheismi : — De Bap- 
tismo inf antibus heterodoxorum conferendo : — De Ludis 
Scenicis: — De baptismo per mulierem vel hominem priva- 
tum administrate — all gathered, with others, in an edi- 
tion of his writings published by J. H. Heidegger (Zu- 
rich, 1G98, 4to). — Biog. Universelie , xiv, 55. 

Fabricius, Lorenz, a German divine, was born 
at Dantzic, 1555, and studied at various German uni- 
versities, especially at Strasburg, in Hebrew, and at 
Wittemberg, where he became doctor of philosophy in 
1587. In 1593 he was made professor of Hebrew at 
Wittemberg, in which office he remained until his 
death, April 28, 1G29. He published Oratio de Lingua 
llebrca (Wittemb. 1594) : — Partitvmes Codicis llebrcri 
(Wittcmb. 1G10, 4to) : — De Reliquiis Sanctis Syi'arum 
Vocum in N. T. (Wittemb. 1G13, 4to) : — Metrica IJebree- 
ortm (Wittemb. 8vo). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
xiv, 959. 

Fabricius, Theodor, a German divine and re- 
former, was born in Anholt (in Prussia) February 2, 
1501, of very poor parents. lie was apprenticed to a 
shoemaker, and could not begin to go to school until 
he was sixteen years old. His diligence and success 
attracted the attention of count Oswald of Bergen, who 
sent him to Cologne to study at the university. He 
afterwards went to 'Wittemberg, where he not only 
studied Hebrew thoroughly, but also imbibed from Lu- 
ther and jMelancthon the principles of the Reforma- 
tion. His patron abandoned him; but, although he 
was reduced to great straits of poverty, he maintained 
his integrity and courage. Returning to Cologne, he 
taught Hebrew, but was soon driven away as a here- 
tic. Philip of Hesse received him, and made him his 
almoner. In 153G he became pastor at Allcndorf. In 
1540 he was imprisoned by the elector for preaching 
against polygamy. In 1543 he returned to Wittem- 
herg as professor of Hebrew and of theology. Ilis 
life, in many respects a stormy one, ended on the 15th 
of Oct. 1550. He published Institutiones Grammaticee 
in Linguam Sanctam (Cologne, 1528, 1531, 4to) : — Tab- 
irfee de verbis et nominibus Heb. (Basel, 1545). There is 
a sketch of his life in Hase, Biblioth. Bremensis, pt. i. 
—Biog. Universelie , xiv, 4G. 

Fabricy, Garuiel,, a French archa?ologist, was 
born at Saint-Maximin, in the Provence, about 1725, 
entered the Dominican order, and became professor of 
theology at Rome, where he died in 1800. Among his 
writings are Censoris theologi Diatribe , qua bibliographic 
antiqaarue et sacree critici s capita aliquot illustrantur 
(Rome, 1782, 8vo). He entered upon the study of Phoe- 
nician antiquities and literature, but did not live to com- 
plete his plans ; the partial fruit of his labors appears in 
De Pkcenicvr Litter aturcc Fontibus (Rome, 1803, 2 vols. 
8vo). Perhaps his best work is Dcs Titrcs priniitifs de 
la Ri-veleition, ou considerations critiques sur lapurcte et 
1'integrite du texte original des livres saints de Vancien 
Testament (Rome, 1772, 2 vols. 8vo), which is still of 
value in Biblical criticism. — Biog. Universelie , ii, GG. 


Facciolati (Facciolato), Jacopo, was born at 
Torreglia, Italy, Jan. 4, 1G82. He was educated in 
the college at Este, and afterwards in the seminary at 
Padua, where he became professor of theology and 
philosophy, and director of studies. “The seminary 
of Padua had then, as subsequently, a high reputation 
as a place for the study of Latin, and for the numerous 
and generally accurate editions of the classics and 
other school-books which have come from its press. 
Facciolati contributed to support this reputation by 
his labors. Among other works, he published im- 
proved editions of the Lexicon of Schrevelius, of the 
Thesaurus Ciceronianus of Nizolius, and of the vocab- 
ulary of seven languages, known by the name of lex- 
icon Calepinum (1731, 2 vols. fol.). In this last under- 
taking he was greatly assisted by his pupil, Egidio 
Forcellini, although he was not willing to acknowl- 
edge the obligation. Tt was in the course of his joint 
labors with Facciolati that Forcellini conceived the 
plan of a totally new Latin dictionary, which, after 
more than thirty years’ assiduous application, he 
brought to light under the title of Tot ins Latinitatis 
Lexicon (Padua, 1771, 4 vols. fol.). This work has 
superseded all other Latin dictionaries. Forcellini, 
more generous than Facciolati, acknowledged in the 
title-page of his work that its production was in great 
measure due to the advice and instruction of his de- 
ceased master. The MS. of his Lexicon, in 12 vols. 
fol., is preserved in the library of the seminary.” The 
best editions are (1) that of Furlanetto (Patav. 1827- 
32, 4 vols. 4to ; ed. by Ilertel and Voigtlander, Schnee- 
berg, 1835-38, 4 vols. fol.; also by Giacchetto, 1839- 
45, 4 vols. 4to) ; (2) that of Bailey, with English ren- 
derings (1828, 2 vols. 4to). “In 1722, Facciolati, be- 
ing appointed professor of logic in the University of 
Padua, delivered a series of introductory Latin dis- 
courses to the students of his class, which were received 
with considerable applause. His Latin epistles, as 
well as his Orations , or discourses, have been admired 
for the purity of their diction. The king of Portugal 
sent Facciolati a flattering invitation to Lisbon to take 
the direction of the public studies in his kingdom, but 
Facciolati declined the honor on account of his ad- 
vanced age. He, however, wrote instructions for the 
reorganization of the scholastic establishments of that 
country, which had become necessan r after the expul 
sion of the Jesuits.” Facciolati died at Padua Aug. 
25, 17G9. Besides numerous works on philosophy, he 
published Vita ct Acta Jesu Christi secundum utram - 
que generationem , divinam ac humanam (Padua, 1761, 
24mo) : — Viatica Theologica (Padua, 17G3): — Vita ei 
Acta Metric Virginis (Padua, 1764). — English Cyclope - 
dia, s„ v. ; Biog. Universelie , xiv, 80. 

Face (usually panini' , TrgoaioTrov'), whatever 
of a thing is most exposed to view; hence the face of 
the country, ground, waters, sky, etc. In Scripture, 
this term is often used to denote presence in the general 
sense ; and, when applied to the Almighty, denotes 
such a complete manifestation- of the divine presence, 
by sound or sight, as was equivalent, in the vividness 
of the impression, to the seeing of a fellow-creature 
“face to face.” The “face of God,” therefore, de- 
notes in Scripture anything or manner l)} r which God 
is wont to manifest himself to man. Thus, when it is 
said that Adam and Eve hid themselves from “the 
face of Jehovah,” we understand that they hid them- 
selves from his presence, however manifested ; for the 
term there used is the only proper word to denote 
presence in the Hebrew language. It was a very 
common and ancient opinion that our mortal frame 
could not survive the more sensible manifestations of 
the divine presence, or “see God face to face and live” 
(Gen. xxxii, 30). Hence, in this passage, the gratitude 
and astonishment of Jacob that he still lived after God 
had manifested himself to him more sensibly than by 
dreams and visions. This impression was confirmed 


FACULTIES 


448 


FACUNDUS 


to Moses, who was told, “ Thou canst not see my face : 
no man can see 1113’ face and live” (Exod. xxxiii, 20), 
which clearly signifies that no one can in this present 
state of being endure the view of that glory which be- 
longs to him (1 Cor. xiii, 1*2; 1 John iii, 2; Kev. xxii, 
4). The ancient heathen entertained the same no- 
tion, which is remarkably expressed in the celebrated 
mythological story of Semele, who, having prevailed 
011 the reluctant Jove to appear to her in his heaven- 
ly splendor, was struck dead by the lightnings of his 
presence. It is to be borne in mind that God is usually 
represented to us in Scripture under a human form ; 
and it is indeed difficult for even more spiritualized 
minds than those of the Hebrews to conceive of him 
apart from the form and attributes of the highest na- 
ture actually known to us. The Scriptures sanction 
this concession to the weakness of our intellect, and 
hence arise the anthropomorphous phrases which speak 
of the face, the eyes, the arm of God. The appear- 
ances of the angeis in the Old-Testament times were 
generally in the human form (Judg. xiii, G, etc.), and 
from this cause alone it would have been natural, in 
the imagination, to transfer the form of the messen- 
gers to him by whom they were sent. — Ivitto, s. v. 
See Antiiropomorriiism. The presence of Jehovah 
(Exod. xxxiii, 14, 15) and the “angel” (Exod. xxiii, 
20, 21) is Jehovah himself; but in Isa. Ixiii, 0, the an- 
gel of his presence is opposed to Jehovah himself. 
The light of God’s countenance is a token of his favor, 
and is therefore put synonymously with favor (Psa. 
xliv, 3 ; Dan. ix, 17). Thus, as in men, if the coun- 
tenance be serene, it is a mark of good-will ; if fiery or 
piercing, of anger or displeasure. “Face” also signi- 
fies anger, justice, and severity (Gen. xvi, G, 8 ; Exod. 
ii, 15; Psa. Ixviii, 1; Rev. vi, 16). (See Wemyss, 

> Symbol . Diet. s. v.) 

The Jews prayed with their faces turned towards 
the Temple (1 Kings viii, 38, 44, 48), and those resid- 
ing out of Jerusalem turned it towards that point of 
the heavens in which Jerusalem lay (Dan. vi, 10); thus 
the Mohammedans, when praying, always turn their 
faces towards Mecca. To how down the face in the 
dust (Isa. xlix, 23) is a mark of the lowest humiliation 
and submission. 8ee Attitudes. 

The “bread of faces” is the show-bread which w T as 
always in the presence of God. See Show-bread. 

Faculties, a term of the Roman Catholic Church 
law, designating certain rights as to ecclesiastical func- 
tions which an ecclesiastical superior confers upon sub- 
ordinates. The most important faculties are those 
conferred by the popes upon bishops, especially with 
regard to dispensations. The first instances of such 
dispensations being given to foreign missionaries oc- 
cur in the 13th century. Subsequently, especially 
since the 16th century, very extensive faculties -were 
granted to the papal nuncios. As the Council of 
Trent reserved many dispensations which in former 
times had been granted by the bishops to the pope, 
and as many bishops regarded the jurisdiction exer- 
cised by the nuncios as injurious to their authority, 
they applied to the pope for special faculties with re- 
gard to a number of dispensations. These faculties 
were generally granted for a term of five years {fac- 
ilitates quinquennnks). An effort made in the 18th 
century by some of the German archbishops to reas- 
sert their own authority in the cases covered by the 
papal faculties was unsuccessful [see Ens, Congress 
ofJ, and the facilitates quinquennales are still con- 
ferred upon the bishops by the pope. Besides this 
general class of faculties, which contains twenty dif- 
ferent provisions, many special faculties are conferred 
upon bishops in particular cases. The bishops, in their 
turn, confer faculties upon the vicars-gcneral, deans, 
and common priests of their dioceses, either delegating 
to them rights which properly belong to bishops, or 
subdelegating papal rights which thej T have been spe- 
cially authorized to subdelegate.— Herzog, Real-Ency- 


Hop. iv, 315; Wctzer und Welte, Kirch. -Lex. iv, 879. 
(A.J. S.) 

Faculty, in England, is a special privilege or dis- 
pensation granted by favor and indulgence to enable 
a person to do that which he is not permitted to do 
without it. There is a court of the Faculties, the chief 
officer of which is master of the Faculties, under the 
archbishop of Canterbury. It has power, by 25 Henry 
VIII, 21, to grant dispensations to many, to hold two 
or more incompatible benefices, and the like ; and in 
it are registered the certificates of peers to their chap- 
lains to qualify them for pluralities and non-residence. 
The act gives authority to grant such dispensations 
“for any such matters, not being repugnant to the 
holy Scriptures and the laws of God, whereof before 
such dispensations, etc., had been accustomed to be 
had at the see of Koine. Up to the time of passing 
this act, the pope, notwithstanding the statutes which 
had been passed restraining his authority, continued 
to exercise his power, and to draw a considerable rev- 
enue for indulgences, etc. The sittings of the court 
have always been held at Doctors’ Commons” (q. v.). 
— Encyclopedia Metropolitan , s. v. 

Faculty. See University. 

Facundus, bishop of Ilermiane, in Africa. He 
took part in the conference held at Constantinople in 
547 by pope Vigilius (q. v.),to discuss the tria capitula 
[see Chapters, tiie Three], and sustained the side 
of Theodore and Theodoret against the emperor’s view. 
Vigilius demanded that he (with other opposing bish- 
ops) should sign the condemnation of Ibas, Theodore, 
and Theodoret. He refused absolutely, and bore with 
firmness the persecution and banishment which follow- 
ed. He is supposed to have died about A. D. 553. His 
treatise Pro drfensione trium Cnpitiilorum, lib. xii, will 
be found in Sirmond, Opera Vuria, ii, 297 (Venct. 1728, 
5 vols. fob); in Bib. Max. Patr. x ; in D'Acherv, Spi- 
cihgium , iii, 307, of the first edition, and in iii, W6, edit, 
of 1723; and in Migne, Patroloyia Latina, lxvii, 527 
sq. His Contra Mod mum Libc+‘, condemning Mocia- 
nus and Vigilius for their course with regard to the 
“ Three Chapters,” is also given in Migne (lxvii, 853). 

Neander sa} r s that the writings of Facundus “are 
characterized by qualities seldom to he met with in 
that age — a freedom of spirit unshackled l>y human 
fear, and a candid, thorough criticism, superior in man} 7 
respects to the prejudices of the times. Nobly did he 
protest against the uncalled-for dogmatism which had 
ever been the source of so much mischief to the Greek 
Church, these useless disputes having in fact pro- 
ceeded from no other cause. ‘While,’ he said, ‘ in all 
other arts and occupations, no one presumed to pass 
judgment on what he had never learned ; in matters 
of theology, on the contrary, they who learned the 
least were the most arrogant and peremptory in their 
judgments. When the civil power overstepped its 
province, it might indeed plunge numbers in ruin by 
misleading them to deny the truth w ith their lips, hut 
still it could never effect its object, for it could not in- 
stil into the minds of men other convictions than they 
had : its power readied only to what w r as outward, not 
to the soul.’ He spoke with scorn of those bishops 
who accused themselves in pleading, in excuse of their 
behavior, the constraint under which the} r were placed; 
for it was not even the force of torture, but only the 
fear of the emperor’s displeasure, which had brought 
them to yield {Cant. Mocianum, f. 595). ‘As if,’ said 
he , 1 W'e had been ordained bishops for no other pur- 
pose than to be enriched by the presents of princes, 
and to sit with them among the high authorities of the 
state. But if, amidst the many cares of the state, 
through the deceitful arts of the wicked, of which there 
is never any lack; anything has been admitted ly 
them which tended to injure the Church or to disturb 
its peace, as if it were not our duty to set before them 
the truth for their own benefit, and, if it be necessary, 


FADUS 


449 


FAIR 


to resist them with the authority of religion, and pa- 
tiently endure their displeasure if we must incur it. 
If God should now raise up an Ambrose,’ said he, 
‘there would not fail to be a Theodosius'” ( Church 
History, Torrcy’s, ii, 544). There is a remarkable pas- 
sage in the Defensio showing that Facundns did not 
hold the Romanist doctrine as to the corporeal pres- 
ence in the Eucharist: “Potest sacramentum adop- 
tion^ adoptio nuncupari, sicut sacramentum corporis 
et sanguinis ejus, quod est in pane et poculo consecra- 
to, corpus ejus et sanguinem dicimus : non quod pro- 
prie corpus ejus sit panis, et poculum sanguis: sed 
quod in se mysterium corporis ejus et sanguinis conti- 
neant” (“The sacrament of adoption may be called 
adoption itself, as we term the sacrament of his body 
and blood, which is in the bread and the consecrated 
cup, his body and blood ; not that the bread is properly 
his body and the cup his bloody but because they contain 
within them the my s ten 7, of his bod}' and blood” (ix, 5, 
Migne, lxvii, 702). — Neander, Ch. History , ii, 544 ; Ne- 
ander, History of Dogmas (Byland), i, 278 ; Cave, Ilist. 
Liter, i, 520; Ceillier, Auteurs Sucres (Paris, 1802), xi, 
285 sq. ; AVaterland, Works (Oxford), iv, 591), note. 

Fadus, Cuspius (Graeeized KouffTrioc; <l>deoc, Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xv, 11, 4), a Roman knight of the time of 
the emperor Claudius. After the death of king Agrip- 
pa, in A.D. 44, he was appointed by Claudius procura- 
tor of JucUea. During his administration peace was 
restored in the country, and the only disturbance was 
created by one Theudas (q. v.), who came forward 
with the claim of being a prophet. He and his fol- 
lowers were put to death by command of Fadus. He 
was succeeded in the administration of Judaea (A.D. 
cir. 4G) by Tiberius Alexander (Josephus, Ant. xix, 9; 
xx, 5, 1 ; War, ii, 11,5: Tacitus, Hist, v, 9; Zonnras, 
xii, 11 ; Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. ii, 11). — Smith, Diet, of 
Class. Lhg. s. v. See Procurator. 

Fagius, Paulus (properly Buciileix), was born 
at Eheinzabern in 1504. II is studies were pursued at 
Heidelberg and Strasburg, where he became a great 
proficient in Hebrew', and was led info close acquaint- 
ance with Capito, Iledio, Bucer, Zell, and other learn- 
ed reformers. In 1537 he entered the ministry, and 
was pastor at Isny until 1543. Here he studied He- 
brew' thoroughly under Elias Levita (q. v.). and abo 
established a Hebrew press. In 1541, wdien the plague 
began to rage in Isny, he publicly rebuked those of 
the wealthy classes who forsook the place without mak- 
ing provision for the relief of the poor, and himself 
visited the sick in person, and administered spiritual 
comfort to them day and night, and yet escaped. On 
the death of Capito at Strasburg, the senate called 
Fagius to succeed him as professor and pastor there 
(1544). In 154G, Frederick 1 1, the elector palatine, in- 
tending a reformation in his churches, called him to 
Heidelberg, and made him professor there. He op- 
posed the Interim (q. v.), and when it was introduced 
lie was compelled to leave Strasburg. In 1548 he ac- 
cepted the invitation of Cranmer, archbishop of Can- 
terbury, and came to England. He w’as nominated 
by the archbishop to the professorship of Hebrew in 
the University of Cambridge. Before he went to Cam- 
bridge he resided with the archbishop at Lambeth, 
where he was associated with Bncer. His labors while 
there, in addition to the preparation necessary for his 
professional office, are thus described by Strype : “As 
it lias been a great while the archbishop’s desire that 
the Holy Bible should come abroad in the greatest ex- 
actness, and true agreement with the original text, 
so he laid this work upon these two learned men, viz. 
Fagius and Bueer. First, that the}' should give a 
clear, plain, and succinct interpretation of the Scrip- 
ture, according to the propriety of the language ; and, 
secondly, illustrate difficult and obscure places, and 
reconcile those that seemed repugnant to one another. 
And it was his will and his advice that to this end 
and purpose their public readings should tend. This 
III.— F F 


pious and good w'ork, by the archbishop assigned to 
them, they most gladly and readily undertook. For 
their more regular carrying on this business, they al- 
lotted to each other, by consent, their distinct tasks. 
Fagius, because his talent lay in the Hebrew learning, 
was to undertake the Old Testament, and Bucer the 
New'. The leisure they now enjoyed with the arch- 
bishop they spent in preparing their respective lec- 
tures. Fagius entered upon the evangelical prophet 
Esaias, and Bucer upon the Gospel of the evangelist 
John ; and some chapters in each hook w'ere dispatch- 
ed by them. But it was not long but both of them 
fell sick, which gave a very unhappy stop to their 
studies.” He died at Cambridge Nov. 13, 1549. 1 1 is 

body, along W'ith Bucer's, was dug up and burnt in 
queen Mary’s time. He w rote various books on Bib- 
lical and Hebrew' literature, among which are Meta - 
phrasis et Enarratio Epis. Paid, ad Pom. (Strasb. 153G, 
fol.) : — Sent entice sapientuin Ilebreeorum (Isny, 1541, 
4to) : — Annotations in Targum (Isny, 154G, fol.) : — Ex- 
positio literahs <n IV priora Capita Genescos, cui acces- 
s'd Textus Jlelraici et Paraphraseos Chaldaicee coJlaiio , 
4to (this and the last work reprinted in the Critici Sa - 
erf) : — Precationes Ilebraicir, ex libello Hebraico exci rpUv, 
cui Nomen, Liber Fidei (1542, 8vo) Tobias Hebraicvs 
in Latinam translatus (1542, 4to) : — Ee:i Syne Senhntke 
Morales , cum succinct o Commentario (1542, 4to): — Jsa- 
goge in Linguam Hebraicam (Constance, 1543, 4 to). — 
Middleton, Erang. Biography, i, 2G0 ; Melchior Adam, 
Vitce theolug. i, 99 ; Hook, Eccles. Blog, v, 50. 

Fagnani, Prosper, an Italian writer on ecclesi- 
astical law, was horn in 1598. Fie w'as for fifteen 
years secretary of the Congregation for the Interpre- 
tation of the Council of Trent ( Congregatio Cone. Trid. 
interpret A), and subsequently professor of canon law 
at the Roman Academy. He was regarded as the 
ablest Roman jurist of his time, and was frequently 
consulted by the popes. Alexander VII charged him 
w ith compiling a commentary on the Decretals, w hich 
appeared in 3 vols. fol. at Rome in 1GG1 (reprinted at 
Cologne, 1G7G ; Venice, 1G97, and in many ether edi- 
tions). As Fagnani had been entirely blind from his 
forty-fourth year, he had to dictate the whole com- 
mentary to a clerk. He died at Rome in 1G78. — Wet- 
zer u. Welte, Kirch. -Lex. iv, 8£3. (A. J. S.) 

Fair (properly yaphdi ’, ktoXoc). Travellers 
inform us that in hot countries the greatest difference 
imaginable subsists between the complexions of the 
women. Those of high condition seldom go abroad, 
and are ever accustomed to be shaded from the sun 
w ith the greatest attention, and their skin is conse- 
quently fair and beautiful. But women in the lower 
ranks of life, especially in the country, being, from the 
nature of their employments, more exposed to the 
scorching rays of the sun, are in their complexion re- 
markably tawny and swarthy. Under such circum- 
stances, a high value W'Oiild of course be set by the 
Eastern ladies upon the fairness of their complexions, 
as a distinguishing mark of their superior quality, no 
less than as an enhancement of their beauty. This 
notion appears to have obtained as early as the time 
of Abraham (Gen. xii, 11-13). Thus, also, how natu- 
ral is the bride’s self-abasing reflection in Cant, i, 5, G, 
respecting her tawny complexion among the fair 
daughters of Jerusalem, w ho, as attendants on a royal 
marriage, w ere of the highest rank. Roberts observes, 
in reference to the daughters of Job being very fair 
(Job xlii, 15), “The word fair may sometimes refer to 
the form of the features as w'ell as the color of the 
skin ; hut great value is attached to a woman of a 
light complexion. Hence our English females are 
greatly admired in the East, and instances have oc- 
curred where great exertions have been made to gain 
the hand of a fair daughter of Britain. The a cm 6 of 
perfection in a Hindu lady is to he of the color of gold.” 
(See Wemvss, Symbol. Diet. s. v.) See Beauty. 


FAIRBANKS 


450 


FAIRS 


Fairbanks, Erabtus, LL.D., governor of Vermont, 
was born at Brim field, Mass., Oct. ‘28,1792. He obtain- 
ed such education as the district school afforded, and at 
seventeen himself taught a district school. From his 
youth he was diligent in self-culture. In 1812 he re- 
moved to St. Johnsburv, Vt., and in March, 1814, he 
united with the Congregational Church in that place. 
From this time to the end of his life the interests of 
religion and the Church were paramount to all others 
in his life and habits of thought. After various vicis- 
situdes in trade, he began in 1830 the manufacture of 
the patent “platform scale,” which is now in use all 
over the world, and from the sale of which he laid the 
foundation of a large fortune. The village of St. 
Johnsburv grew in population, wealth, and virtue, so 
as to have become a model place under his skilful 
guidance. “Drunkenness and disorder were things 
unknown ; industry, intelligence, and thrift were uni- 
versal.” In 1828 he became a deacon of the Congre- 
gational Church. In 1836 he was elected a member 
of the State Legislature, in 1844 and 1848 presiden- 
tial elector, and in 1852 and I860 he was chosen gov- 
ernor of the State of Vermont. In the execution of 
his official duties he was conscientious and faithful, 
and acquired and retained, in an unusual degree, the 
confidence of all parties. During his second term of 
office the civil war broke out. “His firm having a 
great amount of property in the South which must be 
lost in case of war, it was for his pecuniary interest to 
keep peace. But this had no weight with him. Day 
and night he toiled raising troops, w here, three months 
before, not even a knapsack was to be found, and send- 
ing regiment after regiment of the brave Green Moun- 
tain Boys forward to the scat of war.” The Legisla- 
ture conferred upon him almost unlimited power in the 
discharge of his duties, and placed at his sole disposal 
a million of dollars, and at the close of his official 
term in 1861 passed votes of approval of his labors, 
ability, and patriotic devotion. He never touched 
even the salary to which lie was entitled. He was for 
many years a corporate member of the American 
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and 
both in this field and in that of home missions he de- 
voted time, talents, and money freely to the cause of 
God. His personal literary culture was diligently 
carried on during his life, and in 1860 the University 
of Vermont conferred on him the degree of LL.D. He 
died Nov. 20, 1864. To trace the thirty-four years of 
his life from 1830 to his death “is to record the daily I 
acts of a life devoted to every good and noble work. 
Bare must be the talent which could organize and di- 
rect such a business in the face of so many obstacles, 
in an inland town, remote from business centres, and 
guide it safely through all the financial embarrass- 
ments to which the country has been subject. But a 
fact far more rare and interesting is that, in the midst | 
of so many cares, time abundant was always found, 
and means equally abundant, not only for aiding in 
every good work, hut for leading in new benevolent 
movements, for which many, with far less to do, 
thought they could find no time.” “ 1 1 is munificent 
contributions to benevolent purposes and objects were 
proverbial long before his death, and in connection 
with ‘good words and works* the name of Erastus 
Fairbanks had, to the people of his state, come to be 
as familiar as household words. In public life he was 
honored and confided in as a capable, honest, and reli- 
able man; and in the walks of social and private life 
he was esteemed as a kind neighbor, a sincere friend, 
and a Christian gentleman .” — Congregational Quarter- 
ly, 1867, No. 1. 

Fair Ha'vens (KaXoi Aipiver), a harbor in the 
island of Crete (Acts xxvii, 8), not mentioned in any 
other ancient writing. There seems no probability 
that it is, as most early eonynciitators thought (sec 
Biscop, On the Acts, p. 347, cd. 1829), the K«X// ‘Aktt), 
or Fair Beach f of Steph. Byz. (see Kuinol, Comment. 


in loe.) ; for that is said to be a city, whereas Fair Ha« 
veils is described as “a place near to which was a city 
called Lassen.” Moreover, Mr. Pashley found (Trav- 
els in Crete , ii, 57) a district called Acte ; and it is most 
likely that Ka\t) 'AktI/ was situated there; hut that 
district is in the west of the island, whereas Fair Ha- 
vens was on the south. Its position is now quite cer- 
tain. Though not mentioned by classical writers, it 
is still known by the old Greek name, as it was in the 
time of Bauwolf (who calls it Calismtne ), Pococke (ii, 

| 250), and other early travellers mentioned by Mr. 
Smith (Joy. and Shipwr. of St. Paul , 2d ed. p. 80-82). 
Las,ea, too, has recently been most explicitly discov- 
ered. In fact, Fair Havens appears to have been 
practically its harbor. These places are situated four 
or five miles to the east of Cape Matala, which is the 
most conspicuous headland on the south coast of Crete, 
and immediately to the west of which the coast trends 
suddenly to the north. This last circumstance ex- 
plains why the ship which conveyed Paul was brought 
to anchor in Fair Havens. In consequence of violent 
and continuing north-west winds she had been unable 
to hold on her course towards Italy from Cnidus (Acts 
xxvii, 7), and had ran down, by Salmone, under the 
lec of Crete. It was possible to reach Fair Ilavens; 
but beyond Cape Matala the difficulty would have re- 
curred so long as the wind remained in the same 
quarter. A considerable delay took place (ver. 9), 
during which it is possible that Paul may have had 
opportunities of preaching the Gospel at Lasaea, or 
even at Gortyna, where Jews resided (1 Mace, xv, 
23), and which was not far distant ; but all this is con- 
jectural. A consultation took place, at which it was 
decided, against the apostle’s advice, to make an at- 
tempt to reach a good harbor named Pn exice (ver. 
12). However, the south wind, which sprang up af- 
terwards (ver. 13), proved delusive; and the vessel 
was caught by a hurricane [see Ei roclydon] on her 
way towards Phenice, and ultimately wrecked. — Smith, 
s. v'. Sec Siiipwkecic (of Paul). The name of the 
place is appropriate. It is shut in on the west by a 
bold headland, on the summit of which are the ruins 
of an ancient convent dedicated to St. Paul. On the 
south it is sheltered by two little islands ; and between 
these and the shore is a safe anchorage. The road- 
stead, however, is open to the sea, and we can thus 
see the truth of Luke’s statement that it was “ incom- 
modious to winterin’* (avsnSsrof; ~pbg Trapaxitfiaaiau, 
ver. 12; see Smith, p. 256; Conybeare and Ilowson, 
Life and Epistles of St. Paul, ii, 320). See Crete. 

Fairs izzelonini ; Sept. «yopn,Vnlg. nun- 

dime, forum), a word which occurs only in Ezek. xxvii, 
and there no less than seven times (ver. 32, 14. 16, 19, 
22, 27, 33) : in the last of these verses it is rendered 
“wares,” and this appears to be the true meaning of 
the word throughout (so Fi'irst, Heh. Handivh. s. v. ; 
but Gesenius, Heb. Lex . s. v., thinks it means traffic in 
general, and also yams). It will be observed that the 
word stands in sonic sort of relation to ^*^**2, maarab 
throughout the whole of the chapter, the latter word 
also occurring seven times, and translated sometimes 
“ market” (ver. 13, 17, 19), and elsewhere “merchan- 
dise” (ver. 9, 27, 33, 34). The words arc used alter- 
nately, and represent the alternations of commercial 
business in which the merchants of Tyre were en- 
gaged. That the first of these words cannot signify 
“fairs” is evident from ver. 12 ; for the inhabitants of 
Tarshisli did not visit Tyre, blit vice versa. Let the 
reader substitute “ paid” or “ exchanged for thy 
wares” for “occupied in thy fairs,” and the sense is 
much improved. The relation which this term hears 
to maarab , which jiroperly means barter , appears to be 
pretty much the same as exists between exports and 
imports. The sense of izzabon ("p-42, the presumed 
sing, form) thus becomes essentially that proposed by 


FAIRS 


451 


FAITH 


Gonsset (Commentarii Ling. Hebr. p. 594) anti adopted 
by Ilavernick ( Commentar . p. 4G4), namely, exchange, 
or equivalent. Hie requirements of the Tyrians them- 
selves, such as slaves (ver. 13), wheat (ver. 17), steel 
(ver. 19), were a matter of maarab ; but where the 
business consisted in the exchange of Tj'rian wares 
for foreign productions, it is specified in this form : 
“Tarshish paid for ilty icares with silver, iron, tin, 
and lead” (sec Ilitzig, Commentar , in loc.). The use 
of the terms would probably have been more intelligi- 
ble if the prophet had mentioned what the Tyrians 
gave in exchange : as it is, he only notices the one side 
of the bargain, viz. what the Tyrians received, whether 
they were buyers or sellers. — Smith, s. v. See Com- 
merce. The natural sea-port of Western Asia, and 
the centre of the commerce of the East, was Tyre, or, 
rather, the ports of lfficenicia, for Tyre was but one of 
them. Phoenicia early grasped this commerce, and 
retained it until the rise of Alexander. Sidon first 
rose to opulence; and then Tyre, her “daughter,” 
better situated for commerce, soon eclipsed her glory, 
and became the mart of the world. The enumeration 
of the articles of traffic in Ezck. xxvii shows that a 
large part of the commerce of Tyre w as in articles of 
luxury, though it was the grand mart for all the trade 
of the Eastern and Western world. See Tyke. 

Fairs, however, although not directly referred to by 
the above Heb. term, were doubtless anciently com- 
mon, as now, in the East. Dr. Thomson ( Land arid 
Book, ii, 152 sq.) thus describes the scene at these Ori- 
ental mercantile gatherings : “ On Monday of each 
week a great fair is held at the khans, when, for a few 
hours, the scene is very lively and picturesque. These 
gatherings afford an excellent opportunity to observe 
Syrian manners, customs, and costumes, and to be- 
come acquainted with the character and quality of her 
productions. Thousands of people assemble from all 
parts of the country either to sell, trade, or purchase. 
Cotton is brought in bales from Nablus ; barley, and 
wheat, and sesamum, and Indian corn from the Hu- 
leh, the Fiauran, and Esdraclon. From Gilead and 
Bashan, and the surrounding districts, come horses 
and donkeys, cattle and flocks, with cheese, milk, oil, 
honey, and similar articles. Then there are mis- 
cellaneous articles, such as chickens and eggs, figs, 
raisins, apples, melons, grapes, and all sorts of fruits 
and vegetables in their season. The peddlers open 
their packages of tempting fabrics; the jeweller is 
there with his trinkets ; the tailor with his ready-made 
garments; the shoemaker with his stock, from rough, 
hairy sandals to yellow and red morocco boots ; the 
farrier is there with his tools, nails, and flat iron shoes, 
and drives a prosperous business for a few hours ; and 
so does the saddler, with his coarse sacks and his gay- 
ly-tvimmcd cloths. And thus it is with all the arts 
and occupations known to this people. The noise -is 
incessant, and at a distance sounds like that ‘ of many 
waters.’ Every man is crying his wares at the top of 
his voice, chickens cackle and squall, donkeys bray 
and tight, and the dogs bark. Every living thing 
adds somewhat to the many-toned and prodigious up- 
roar. It is now a miscellaneous comedy in full oper- 
ation, where every actor docs his best, and is supreme- 
ly gratified with his own performance. The people 
find many reasons for sustaining these antiquated and 
very curious gatherings. Every man, woman, and 
child has inherited the itch for trading, and, of course, 
all classes meet at this grand bourse to talk over the 
state of the markets, from the price of a cucumber to 
that of cotton, or of a five-thousand dollar horse from 
the Hainan. Again, every Arab is a politician, and 
groups gather around the outskirts of the crowd to 
discuss the doings of the ‘ allied powers,’ the last fir- 
man from the sultan, or the new tax demanded by 
their own petty emir. Descending to more ordinary 
matters, these fairs are great places for gossip and 
scandal. F’riends meet friends, and exchange the 


news of weddings, births, and deaths, and all tlic mul- 
tifarious incidents and accidents between those grand 
extremes of human life. In a word, these fairs sup- 
ply the places of many of the appliances of more civil- 
ized society. They are the daily newspaper, for there 
is one for every day within a circuit of forty miles, 
they arc the exchange and the foncarding of ice , and 
the political caucus, and the family gathering, and the 
grand festa and gain days, and underlying the whole 
is the ever-present idea and aim of making money.’’ 
See Bazaar. 

Faith (Gr. ttiotlc, Lat. fdes, fiducia') is essentially 
trust. r Ihe various uses of the word (both objective 
and subjective) may be summed up as follows: 1. An 
objective body of truth: “the faith;” designated by 
the schoolmen as fdes quee creditor, the faith which is 
believed. So the Augsburg Confession speaks of “ our 
holy faith and Christian religion.” (This sense does 
not occur in N. T.) 2. A rule of thought, the fdes pe- 

nes qiiam creditor: so the Roman Catholics say such a 
thing is “ of faith” (not found in N. T.). 3. A personal 
quality, act, or habit of the individual man ; th efdes 
qua creditor ; the faith by which wc believe. This 
latter is either (1) the exercise of our natural gifts 
(natural faith), or (II) the exercise of natural gifts un- 
der the influence of the divine Spirit with regard to 
divine things, and especially with regard to the per- 
son and work of Christ (the gift of God). This latter 
is Christian faith, and it includes two elements : (1) 
the spiritual apprehension of the invisible and eternal 
(Hcb. xi, 1), and, specifically, (2) trust in Christ as a 
personal Saviour; and, as such, in the Christian sys- 
tem, it is the necessary condition of salvation. It is 
the instrument or means by which the redemption of 
Christ is appropriated, and, so far as it is man’s act, it 
is the act of the whole man, mind, affections, and will. 
It is “a saving grace whereby we receive and rest 
upon Christ alone for salvation, as lie is freely offered 
to us in the Gospel.” 

I. Natural Faith. — All our knowledge presupposes 
faith. In this view Goethe said that he was a “ believer 
in the five senses;” and Fichte, that “man apprehends 
all reality external to himself through faith alone, a 
faith that is born with him.” In the article Belief (q. 
v.) it was shown that there is a foundation laid for the 
exercise of this principle in the primary laws of thought 
or self-consciousness — in the reason, not of the indi- 
vidual man, but of humanity. Psychologically, “faith 
is the faculty of grasping evidence, with a propensity 
to admit it when duly presented to the mind. Just 
as by sensation and perception we discern certain ob- 
jects through the medium of the senses, and as by 
reason we discover some truths, or discern them upon 
their simple presentation (Chalmers, Institutes of The- 
ology , bk. iii, ch. vi), without any other warranty than 
the voice within, so also by faith we discern other 
truths through the means of testimony or by the voice 
of authority. Attempts to analyze this quality of the 
human mind have been often made and as often failed. 
But still the fact remains that, according to the orig- 
inal constitution of our nature, wc are able and dis- 
posed to yield to evidence in proportion to its nature 
and its strength (Hooker, Eccles. Pol. bk. ii, chap, vii, 
§ 5) ; to assent to testimony concerning facts not pres- 
ent and manifest; and to submit to authority in the 
announcement or proposition of truths independently 
of any internal and direct perception of them by our- 
selves (Van Mildert, Boyle I.ect. serm. xvi). In mat- 
ters of common life, from childhood to old age, wc con- 
tinually act, and arc. compelled to act, upon this prin- 
ciple (Barrow, On the Creed, serin, iii; Hare, Victory 
of Faith, serm. iv). The child believes its parent or 
its nurse, and reposes in this belief; and under cer- 
tain conditions, the man believes the records of past 
history, the testimony of eye-witnesses, and the af- 
firmations of trustworthy persons capable of under- 
standing that which they affirm. Anil it is not too 


FAITH 


452 


FAITH 


much to say that, apart from this principle and prac- 
tice of belief, man, even in the full exercise of all his 
other intellectual powers, would be enveloped in such 
a cloud of ignorance on even the most ordinary sub- 
jects, that an arrest would be laid upon all the affairs 
of civilized life, and there must be an cud of all social 
harmony and order. It is bv this means that we ob- 
tain a certainty, not of sight, not of demonstration, 
not of direct and immediate intuition, but yet a real 
and ellicient certiintv in many matters of high prac- 
tical importance concerning which we must otherwise 
be hopelessly ignorant, and in the dark. This prin- 
ciple lies at the foundation of human affections and 
family ties, of agricultural and commercial activity, 
and of a large portion of our most valuable knowledge 
in science, and our highest attainments in art. Above 
all, it is thus that we obtain our knowledge of many 
things divine, and especially of relations subsisting 
between God and ourselves ; an acquaintance with 
which, as wc shall hereafter sec, is of the utmost im- 
portance to us, while yet, independently of the exer- 
cise -of faith, it is utterly beyond the reach of every 
man living” (llogcrs, Reason and Faith; Riddle. Hamp- 
ton Lectures, 1852, lect. i). Faith ‘‘is that operation 
of the soul in which we are convinced of the existence 
of what is not before us, of what is not under sense or 
any other directly cognitive power. It is certainly a 
native energy of the mind, quite as much as knowl- 
edge is, or conception is, or imagination is, or feeling 
is. Every human being entertains, and must enter- 
tain, faith of some kind. He who would insist on al- 
ways having immediate knowledge must needs go out 
of the world, for he is unfit for this world, and vet he 
believes in no other. It is in consequence of possess- 
ing the general capacity that man is enabled to enter- 
tain specific forms of faith, By a native principle he 
is led to believe in that of which he can have no ade- 
quite conception — in the infinity of space and time, 
and, on evidence of his existence being presented, in 
the infinity of God. This enables him to rise to a faith 
in all those great religious verities which God has been 
pleased to reveal” (McCosh, Intuitions of the Mind , pt. 
iii, bk. ii, ch. v ; see also pt. ii, bk. ii, ch. iv). 

Guizot, Mel. et Etudes Morales (transl. in Journal 
of Sucre l Literature , xii, 430 sq.), has a thoughtful cs- | 
say in which he distinguishes natural beliefs from faith 
as follows: “No one can doubt that the word faith has 
an especial meaning, which is not properly represented 
l»y belief, conviction, or certitude. Custom and uni- 
versal opinion confirm this view. There are many 
simple and customary phrases in which the word faith 
could not be replaced by any other. Almost all lan- 
guages have a specially appropriated word to express 
that which in English is expressed by faith, and which 
is essentially different from all analogous words. This 
word, then, corresponds to a state of the human soul ; 
it expresses a moral fact which has rendered such a 
word necessary. Wc commonly understand by faith 
a certain belief of facts and dogmas — religious facts 
and dogmas. In fact, the word has no other sense 
when employing it absolutely and by itself — wc speak 
of the faith. That is not, however, its unique, nor even 
its fundamental sense ; it has one more extensive, and 
from which the religious sense is derived. Wc say, 

I have full faith in vonr words ; this man has faith in 
himself, in his power, etc. This employment of the 
word in civil matters, so to speak, has become more 
frequent in onr days ; it is not, however, of modern in- 
vention ; nor have religions ideas ever been an exclu- 
sive sphere, out of which the notions and the word 
faith were without application. It is, then, proved 
by the testimony of language and common opinion, 
First, that the word faith designates a certain inte- 
rior state of him who believes, and not merely a cer- 
tain kind of belief. Secondly, that it is, however, to 
a certain species of belief — religious belief — that it 
has been at first and most generally applied. Now 


' our natural beliefs germinate in the mind of man, 
without the co-operation of his reflection and his will. 
Our scientific beliefs, on the other hand, are the fruit 
of voluntary study. But t /i«7/i partakes of, and at the 
same time differs from, natural and scientific beliefs. 
It is, like the latter, individual and particular; like 
the former, it is firm, complete, active, and sovereign. 
Considered in itself, and independent of all comparison 
with this or that analogous condition, faith is the full 
. securit 3 r of the man in the possession of his belief: a 
possession freed as much from labor as from doubt; in 
the midst of which every thought of the path by which 
it has been reached disappears, and leaves no other 
sentiment but that of the natural and pre-established 
harmony between the human mind and truth.” 

II. Christian Faith . — So far as faith is a voluntary 
act, quality, or habit of mail, it is psychologically the 
same in the theological sense as in common life ; the 
difference lies in the objects of the faith. In order to 
venerate or love a fellow-man, we must believe in his 
worthiness; so, for the fear and love of God, which 
are fundamental elements of the Christian life, faith 
must pre-exist. But this direction of the soul towards 
God does not spring from the natural working of the 
human mind ; it is the gift of God (Eph. ii, 8), and is 
wrought in the heart by the Holy Spirit through the 
word of the Gospel and the free grace of Christ (Rom. 
x, 17 ; 1 Cor. i, 21). Fides donum dei est,per quod Chris- 
tum redemjdorem nostrum in verbo Evam/elii recte eig- 
noseimus {Form. Concord, iii, 11). Not that the Holy 
Spirit endues the soul with any new faculty for the 
single purpose of receiving Gospel truth ; but it quick- 
ens and directs an existing faculty, at the same time 
presenting to it an appropriate object. The true faith, 
thus excited, is an operation at once of the intellect, 
the heart, and the will. As said above, this faith, so 
far as it saves man in Christendom, is specifically trust 
in Christ as a personal Saviour. In further treating 
it, we give, (E) The uses of the words tv ianc. faith, 
and tvkttcvoj, I believe , in the Scriptures (condensed 
from Cremer, I Yorterbueh d. X. Test. G r licit at. Gotha, 
18GG, 8vo). (I I.) A history of the idea of faith in Chris- 
tian theology up to the Reformation. (III.) The Prot- 
estant and Romanist doctrines of faith in contrast and 
comparison with each other. (IV.) Later Protestant 
statements of the doctrine. 

(1.) Use of the words Faith and beliere in Scripture. 
— lTiortc. 1. In profane Greek, ttigtiq means pri- 
marily trust or confidence, such as one man can have 
in another; more seldom fidelity or faithfulness which 
one pledges or keeps ; and also the pledge of fidelity , 
e. g. Sophocles, 0. C. 1632; clog fiov \( pbg <r#/c tt'kttiv. 
Examples of the primary meaning {trust or confidence') 
are: Herodotus, iii, 21 : Sophocles, 0. Col. 050; Xen. 
Hier. iv, 1. In the passive tense {credit) it is found 
e. g. Aristotle, Eth. x, 8. Parallel with the primary 
meaning {trust or confidence) stands that of conviction, 
e. g. Tvioriv t\av tu'oq {to have faith in a thing)', 
but this conviction is based upon trust , and not upon 
knowledge: so that in t his sense 6 ttkttsvojv stands 
opposite to moV, and TvioTig to tTviorfin] (comp. Plat. 
Ilvpuh. x, 001). In this sense tvigtiq is used (in the 
sphere of religion) of belief in the gods, and of acknowl- 
edgment of them, not based upon knowledge (comp. 
Plutarch, Mor. 75G, B ; Plato, Legg. 9<G, C, D ; Eurip. 
Med. 413, 414). Rather characteristic is the fact that 
this faith is not designated as in the N. T. hv the verb 
TTKTTtvttv, font by vofilZtiv (Xcn. Mem. I, i, 1). 

This element of “acknowledgment,” as distinct from 
Icnowing {riUcvm), is found also in the X. T. significa- 
tions of the word as used by Paul and others; c. g. 
2 Cor. v, 7, “ For wc walk by faith {tv armor), not 
by sight;" Ileb. xi, 27, “B v fift h {tvkj rti) be forsook 
Egypt;” Hub. xi; 1, *‘ Now faith ( 7 vionq) is the sub- 
stance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not 
seen ;" Rom. iv. 38 , “ Who against hope believed {'tvig- 
i rivoev) in hope;” John xx, 20, “Blessed (are) they 


FAITH 


453 


FAITH 


that have not seen and (yet) have believed ” (irioTtvactv- 
rtg). But this opposition to “ knowledge” or “sight” 
is not essential to the idea of faith, as is seen from John 
iv, 42 ; xi, 45 ; 1 Tim. iv, 8 ; Philem. G, et al. In fact, 
the N. T. faith differs from the profane 7 tigtiq gener- 
ally in that it is not a conviction held without refer- 
ence to anv ground or authority (compare 1 Pet. iii, 15; 
i, 21). 

In the 0. T. the word “faith” is comparatively sel- 
dom used ; the relation of man to God and to his rev- 
elation is generally designated by some other term be- 
fitting the economy of the law, e. g. “doing God’s will,” 
“keeping the commandments,” “ remembering the 
Lord” (Exod. iii, 15), et al. Nevertheless, we do find (as 
one species of phrases among many to express this re- 
lation) terms denoting “trusting,” “ hoping,” “waiting 
on the Lord” (51-2, non, iXiriZeiv, TzeTco&'ivai , 
vTvofdveiv, etc.). But in some of the most important 
passages of the Old-Test, history the word “ faith” 
occurs; e. g. with regard to Abraham (Gen. xv, G), 
“ he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him 
for righteousness;” of the people of Israel (Exod. 
iv, 31 ; compare 1, 5, 8 ; xiv, 31) ; with regard to the 
possession of Canaan (Deut. ix, 23; comp, i, 82; Psa. 
lxxviii, 22, 32; evi, 24); with regard to the covenant 
of the law (Exod. xix, 9). In view of these pregnant 
passages, we may say that the foundation laid for the 
N. T. in the Old is laid in “ faith” (comp. 2 Chron. xx, 
20; Isa.liii, 1; vii, 9; xxviii, 1G; Jonah iii, 5). But 
unbelief is far oftener spoken of in the 0. T. than faith 
(comp. Psa. xxvii, 13; 2 Kings xvii, 14 ; Psa. lxxviii, 
22,32; evi, 24 ; Numb, xx, 12; Deut. ix, 23 ; Isa. vii, 
9 ; liii, 1 ; Numb, xiv, 11 ; Psa. evi, 12 ; cxix, GG). The 
verb used in all these passages is ‘p’Cttn, Iliph. of 
“'-X, to fasten, build to make firm. From the last of 
these significations follows that of to support, to rely 
upon, to trust (Job xxxix, 11, 12 ; iv, 18 ; xv, 15) ; 
holding a thing for certain and reliable (1 Kings x, 7 ; 
2 Chron. ix, G ; Lam. iv, 12 ; Jer. xl, 14 ; Dent, xxviii, 
66; Job xxiv, 22). Used with relation to God, it de- 
notes a cleaving to him, resting upon his strength, 
sure confidence in God, which gives fixedness and sta- 
bility (2 Chron. xx, 20 ; Isa. vii, 9). 

But there is apparently no corresponding noun to 
the verb *p -X!"!. For corresponds to the par- 

tic. in Ival and Niphal, p -X, 1 -K3, and denotes stead- 
fastness, stability (as an objective quality; e. g. Isa. 
xxxiii, G). In other passages it denotes the personal 
quality of fidelity, faithfulness (but not of holding fast 
by faith), e. g. 1 Chron. ix, 22; 2 Chron. xxxi, 18 (sense 
wrong in English version) ; 2 Kings xxii, 7 ; Jer. vii, 
28. In these passages, where the word refers to man, 
the Sept, translates it rriaric ; but w here it refers to 
God it makes it ciXijQeia, e. g. Psa. xxxiii, 4. Here 
it may be remarked that the reference to this JlSVSIK 
( faithfulness of God) by Paul (Bom. iii, 2 sq.) helps 
us to fix his idea of faith as definitively trust. As a 
designation of the religious relation of man to God, 
Pt:V-X, t nVnf is only seldom used in the 0. T. (see 1 
Sam. xxvi, 23; Jer. v, 8). In these passages it de- 
notes not simply candor , honesty , but rather faithful- 
ness, i. e. faithfulness to the covenant (comp. Jer. v, 3 
with 1, 5, and Matt, xxiii, 23). But, after all, we have 
not yet found our idea of faith. But Ilabakkuk ii, 4 
affords a passage in which is decidedly to be found the 
Pauline idea: !"Pn? (Sept, o ci- 

i:aiog ik 77 iarecog pov Zijaercu. Apparently this pas- 
sage was not understood by the Sept., which changed 
the suffix of the third person to that of the first, and 
referred it to the faithfulness and the reliability of 
God. But i-iSiT-K stands here with regard to the re- 
lation in which the just man, compared with the 
haughty Chaldajan, holds himself to the divine prom- 
ises ; and it refers, therefore, not to the relation it- 


self, but to the quality of the relation , as the Talmudic 
*13^(1, denotes the confiding faith (com- 

pare L e\y,Chald. Worterbuch). Paul, in citing Hab. 
ii, 4, changes the order of the words from that in the 
Sept, to o oe ciKaioc Ik 7ri<JT6MQ Zpotrat (Bom. i, 17 ; 
comp. Dclitzseh, Ifabak. p. 50-53; Keil, Kleine Proph. 
in loc.). So, then, wc find laid in the 0. T. the ground 
for the N.-T. doctrine of faith as complete confidence , 
trust ; and this, too, combined with a conviction 
amounting to a recognition of the invisible (compare 
lleb. xi, 1). 

Conviction combined with trust, as opposed to 
doubt, so far as the intellect is concerned, and as op- 
posed to fear, so far as the heart is concerned — these 
appear, so far, to he the essential elements of faith 
(comp. Matt, xxi, 21 ; Jas. i, G; lleb. x, 39 ; Mark iv, 
40 ; lleb. vi, 12; liev. xiii, 10). 

2. M r c find 7 tigtiq seemingly used, especially in the 
Synoptical Gospels, with regard to the relation of in- 
dividuals to the Lord, to designate special acts of con- 
fidence (Matt, viii, 10; ix, 2,22; Luke, vii, 9, 50; viii, 
48 ; xvii, 19, xviii, 42 ; Mark v, 34 ; x, 52 ; comp. Matt, 
xv, 28). But the Synoptists also use the word to de- 
note (not simply special and single exertions of belief, 
but also) full trust in Christ, and in the divine revela- 
tion in him (Luke xviii, 8; comp. Matt, viii, 10 ; Luke 
viii, 25; Mark iv, 40 ; Luke xxii, 32; xvii, 5; Matt, 
xvii, 20 ; xxi, 21). Compared with this (and Paul 
points out the contrast emphatically), the O.-T. revela- 
tion was an education for faith (Gal. iii, 23-2G: “But 
before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut 
up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed. 
Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us 
unto Christ, that wc might be justified by faith. But 
after that faith is come, we arc no longer under a 
schoolmaster. For ye are all the children of God by 
faith in Christ Jesus comp. Bom. xi, 32; Acts xvii, 
31). But it is to be fully understood also that the 
epistle to the Hebrews makes faith the means of hold- 
ing to the God of revelation, in the sphere of the entire 
economy of redemption — in the O. T. as well as the N. 
T. (Heb. xi). In the Acts faith seems to be used as 
more particularly characteristic of the sphere of the 
N.-T. revelation (Acts vi, 7 ; compare Bom. i, 5; xvi, 
2G ; Acts xiii, 8 ; xvii, 31 ; Gal. i, 23). In Paul’s epis- 
tles, while the O.-T. faith is clearly recognised (e. g. 
with reference to Abraham, and the citation of Hab. 

ii, 4), nevertheless, the prevailing O.-T. unbelief is es- 
pecially emphasized (e. g. Bom. xi, 32); and the con- 
trast between law and gospel (Gal. iii, 12 sq.) brings 
out clearly the chief element of N.-T. faith as uncon- 
ditional trust. 

The promise , as the correlate of the Gospel , is the 
N.-T. element of the O.-T. economy, and demands 
faith (Gal. iii, 22 ; compare iv, 21 sq.), but the absence 
of a (77 Tippa (p hrpyytXTai (seed to whom the promise 
was made, Gal. iii, 19) made necessary the interposi- 
tion of the law ; not a vopog tt'kjtuoc (law of faith), 
but epywv (of works), which, by manifesting sin, was 
an educator into faith (Bom. iii, 19; Gal. iii, 22, 23). 
This throws light upon the contrast of ttiutiq and 
tpyci — \dptg and o^eiXigia — or tv long and vopog (Gal. 

iii, 23; also Bom. iii, 27, 28; comp, iv, 2, 5; ix,32; Gal. 
ii, 16 ; iii, 2, 5 ; comp, iii, 12 ; Eph. ii, 8 ; and in con- 
trast to l'ojuo g, Bom. iv, 13, 14, 16 ; ix, 30 ; Gal. iii, 11, 
12, 23-25). This contrast, it will be observed, is only in- 
troduced by Paul in passages in which he is expressly 
pointing out the difference between the O.-T. economy 
of salvation and that of the N. T. 

3. The following classification of the passages in 
which the word ttiotiq occurs will be found useful : (1.) 
It is used with reference to an object , Heb. vi, 1 ; 1 Thess. 
i, 8; Mark xi, 22; 2 Thess. ii, 13; Colos. ii, 12; Phil, 
i, 27; Acts xxiv, 24; xxvi, 18; Colos. ii, 5; Acts xx, 
21; comp. Philem. 5; 1 Tim. iii, 13; Gal. iii, 26; Ephes, 
i, 15 ; 2 Tim. iii, 15 ; Korn, iii, 25 ; with the obj.-genit. r 


FAITH 


454 


FAITII 


Horn, iii, 22; Gal. ii, 1C; iii, 22; Ephes. iii, 12 ; Phil. 

iii, 9 ; Gal. ii, 20; Acts iii, 1C ; Jas. ii, 1 ; Rev. ii, 13 ; 

xiv, 12; with Tit. i, 1, compare Rev. xvii, 14. (2.) 

Without nearer definition , simply as faith, which ad- 
heres with full conviction and confidence to the N.-T. 
revelation of salvation, and makes this its foundation 
(support). Here is especially of importance the ex- 
pression (Acts iii, 1C), the faith which is by him , an ex- 
pression which is used to point out the salvation aris- 
ing from the mediation of Christ, through the looking 
nuto Jesus , the author of faith (II eb. xii, 2). Under 
this class, besides the passages of the Synoptical Gos- 
pels already referred to, we mention Acts xiv, 22 ; 

xvi, 5; Colos. i, 23; 1 Pet. v, 9; Rom. xiv, 1 ; iv, 19, 
20; 1 Cor. xvi, 13; Rom. xi, 20; 2 Cor. i, 24 ; xiii, 5 ; 

1 Tim. ii, 15; 2 Tim. iv, 7 ; 2 Cor. viii, 7; x, 15; 2 
Thess. i, 3 ; Colos. ii, 7 ; 1 Tim. i, 19 ; Jas. ii, 1, 14, 18 ; 
Tit. i, 13; ii, 2; 2 Cor. v, 7 ; Rom. i, 17 ; Gal. iii, 11 ; 
Heb. x, 38 (comp. Gal. ii, 20); Acts xiii, 8; 2 Tim. ii, 
18; 1 Tim. i, 19 ; iv, 1 ; v, 8, 12 ; vi, 10, 21 ; 2 Tim. iii, 

8. Then the Pauline expressions Ik tt'kjteojq tlvat, ol 
tic tt . (they which arc of faith; Gal. iii, 7, 9, 12, 22; 
Rom. iv, 1G; iii, 20; comp. Heb. x, 39), iopiv i riorEtng 
(we are of them that believe), are used of faith proper 
(compare Rom. xiv, 22, 23). The phrases tic moTEiog 
ntcaiovv, CucruovoSrai, make faith the necessary con- 
dition of justification (Rom. iii, 30; comp. Gal. iii, 14; 
Rom. v, 1; Gal. ii, 1G; iii, 8; Rom. iv, 13; tic irioTEwg, 
ix, 30; x, G; Phil, iii, 9; comp. Rom. i, 17 ; iv, 5, 9). 
The word 7 rtong is found joined to aycim}, Ephes. vi, 
23 ; 1 Thess. iii, G ; v, 8 ; 1 Tim. i, 14 ; iv, 12 ; vi, 11 ; 

2 Tim. i. 5, 13 ; ii, 22 ; Gal. v, G ; 1 Cor. xiii, 13 ; Rev. 
ii, 19; with ^\t rig, v— opovip 1 Cor. xiii, 13; 2 Thess. 
i, 4 ; Rev. xiii, 10. The word is also found Acts vi, 

5, 8 ; xi, 24 ; xiv, 27 ; xv, 9 ; Rom. i, 8, 12 ; iii, 31 ; iv, 
12 ; v, 2 : x, 8, 17 ; xii, G ; 1 Cor. ii, 5 ; xv, 14, 17 ; 2 
Cor. i, 24 ; iv, 13; Gal. v, 5, 22 ; vi, 10 ; Ephes. iii, 17 ; 

iv, 5, 13 ; vi, 1G ; Phil. i,*25 ; i, 17 ; Col. i, 4 ; 1 Thess. 

i, 3; iii, 2, 5, 7, 10; 2 Thess. iii, 2; 1 Tim. i, 2, 4 ; ii, 
7; iii, 9- iv, G; vi, 12; 2 Tim. i, 5; iii, 10; Tit. i, 1, 
4; iii, 15 - Thilem. G; Heh. x, 22; xiii, 7 ; Jas. i, 3, G; 

ii, 5, 14, 17, 18, 20, 22, 21, 2G; v, 15; 1 Pet. i, 5, 7, 9, 
21; 2 Pet. i, 1, 5; Jude 3,20. 

That even in James, confidence , trust (and not mere 
recognition), is the essential element of faith, is mani- 
fest from the passage (v, 15), 1 / ev\i) rijg irtorEtoc mo- 
at rbv Kupvovra (the prayer of faith shall save the 
sick). The ivories of faith are, according to James, 
such as show forth faith, and without which faith sinks 
into a mere recognition (Jas. ii, 19), as dead faith (ve- 
fc'pn). 

It must be noted that the word mortg occurs in 
John's epistles only in one place, 1 John v, 4, and in 
his Apocalvpse in four places (ii, 13, 19; xiii, 10; xiv, 
12). 

There remain a few passages in which Triortg appar- 
ently does not denote “ trust” in salvation by Christ, 
as Rom. xii, 3 (comp. Alford, in loc ., and also Acts 

xvii, 31). 1 Cor. xiii, 2 is easily explained by com- 

parison witli Matt, xxi, 21 ; Luke xvii, 5, G, and here 
will be best joined 1 Cor. xii, 9. In the signification 
faithfulness , rriong , like the O. T. is spoken of 

God, Rom. iii, 3; of men, Matt, xxiii, 23; Tit. ii, 10. 
"With the former passage compare Isa. v, 1 sq. 

H KTrerto. General meaning: a. to trust , to depend 
upon, rti’i e. g. rale mrovcciltj SeOv SrEotfxiroie, Polvb. 

v, G2, G ; Sophocl. Philoct. 13G0 ; Demosth. Phil, ii, G7, 

9. With the dative of the person and the acc. of the 
thing, tt . rtvi n — to intrust (confide) something to 
a person, Luke xvi, 11; John ii, 24; in the passive, 
7 Tiortvopai rt , I am trusted with a thing; without 
ohj. : 1 am trusted, Rom. iii, 2; 1 Cor. ix, 17 ; Gal. ii, 
7 ; 1 Thess. ii, 4 ; 2 Thess. i, 10 ; 1 Tim. i, 11 ; Jit. i, 3. 

6. Very frequently moTEVEiv run denotes to trust a 
person , to give credence to, to 'accept stateihents (to be 
convinced of their truth) ; Soph. EL 88G, rip Xoytp. In 


a broader sense, moTEVEiv rtvi 71 , to believe a person; e. 
g. Eur. Jlec. 710, \oyot£ ipolm morEVt ion tuce ; Xen. 
Apol. 15. Then mo teveiv ri, to believe a thing , to rec- 
ognise it (as true); e. g. Plat. Gorg. 524, A, ii iyoo uicr 7 - 
Kowg 7riorEiHio aXiftij tlvat ; Aristot. A nedyt. pr. 2, 23; 

I also moTEUEtv 7 rEpi, bmp rtvoc, Pint. Lyc. 19, where 
moTEVEiv stands alone, to be inclined to believe , recognise 
a thing; while e. g. in John ix, 18, the specific aim is 
added: “But the Jews did not believe concerning him 
that he had been blind, and received bis sight.” 

In the N. T. (in which mortvEiv has regard to our 
conduct towards God and his revelation) all these con- 
structions are found, as well as the combinations (un- 
usual in the profane Greek) of re. Etg, im rtva , t—i rtvi , 
and also 7 tioteveiv standing alone. The question is 
whether the original signification is confidence, or ac- 
cepting as true. 

(1.) We find moTEVEiv in the signification to believe , 
to take for true , and hence to be convinced , to recognise 
(accept) ; (a) with the acc.folloiving, John xi, 2G, morEv- 
Eigrovro; comp. 25, 2G; 1 John iv, 10; Acts xiii, 41; 1 
Cor. xi, 18; 1 Tim. iii, 1G (comp. Matt, xxiv, 23, 2G; 
Luke xxii, G7): John x, 25; (6) with the infinitive af- 
ter it, Acts XV, 11 (ulOTEVOpEV OlO^pVat) \ (c) with OTl 
after it, Matt, ix, *28; Mark xi, 23, 24; Acts ix, 26; 
Jas. ii, 19, ov morEvEtg on e\c 6 £ai£ tonv ; compare 
Acts xxvii, 25; John iv, 21, morEvk pot , or: Epyerai 
ojpa. This construction of —ioteveiv on is especially 
frequent in the writings of John, in St. Paul’s mean- 
ing of it. It. is also used by Paul in Rom. vi, 8; 1 
Thess. iv, 14; but in Rom. x, 9, tdv moTEvogg Iv rij 
Kapviq oov art b 2rEug abrbv ijyetpEV ik vtKp&v, ctozijoij, 
the sense of trust predominates over that of taking for 
true. Compare also Heb. xi, G, with xi, 1 ; iv, 3. 

In John this construction with on is found in chap. 

iv, 21 ; viii, 24 ; x, 38 ; xi, 27 (compare vi, G9) ; xi, 42 

! (compare xvii, 3) ; xiii, 19; xiv, 10,11; xvi, 27 ; (and 

have believed that I came out from God), xvi, 30; xvii, 

j 8, 21 ; xx, 31 ; 1 John v, 1, 5 (comp, with v, 10). In 
these passages the sense of morEvto is that of assent, 
belief, recognition, conviction of truth. This meaning is 
also predominant in the following passage: John iii, 
12 (If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe 
not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly 
things) (comp, iii, 11). Note also the connection with 
ytvtbotcEiv (to know), vi, GO ; x, 37, 38 ; xvii, 8 ; and note 
also the relation of Christ's works and of sight to faith, 
John iv, 48 (Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will 
not believe) ; x, 37, 38 ; xiv, 11 ; vi, 3G ; xx, 8, 29 (com- 
pare xx, 25) ; i, 51 ; iv, 39-42. 

Let us look now at the constructions morEvav nvt, 
Etg riva. It is clear that ttkjteveiv rtvi of itself can- 
not signify to accept a person, but only to b Ucve what 
he says, to trust his word ; 0 . g. John ii, 22 (they be- 
lieved the Scidptni'e and the word which Jesus had said) ; 

v, 47 ; xii, 38 (comp. Luke i, 20; Acts xxiv, 14 ; xxvi, 
27 ; 1 John iv. 1). In this sense also we understand 
John v, 4G (for had ye believed Moses, ye would have be- 
lieved me); viii, 81,45,40; x, 37 (comp, with x, 3G); xiv, 
11. Nevertheless, as it is the witness cf Jesus himself 
that is in question, the acceptance of his words implies 
the acceptance of his person (John v, 4G; comp, with 
v, 37-39). Connect with these the unique passage 1 
John iii, 23: avrtj iariv i ) ivroXi) abrob 'tva^moTEVoto- 
fiEv rtp ovbpan rob riof* abrov, 11 this is the command- 
ment, that we should believe on the name of his son Jesus 
Christ” (elsewhere Etg ru on., John i, 12; ii, 23; iii, 18 ; 
1 John v, 13) ; conip. also John vi, 29; xvi, 9; 1 John 

| v, 10 (JHe that believeth on [aV] the Son of God hath 
the witness in himself; he that believeth not God [rip 
Gap] hath made him a liar, because lie believeth not 
[aY] the record that God gave of his Son). Here mo- 
TEVEiv rtp %Eip, to believe God, is to receive bis testimo- 
ny, tt. Etg -f)v yaorvpiav, and consequently to receive 
1 iim for whom the testimony is borne. Farther comp. 
John v, 38 with 37, 24, 47, and 44. These passages 
show that John’s idea of faith includes (1) accepting 


FAITII 


455 


FAITH 


the testimony of God, (2) accepting the testimony of j 
Christ concerning himself, and therefore (3) accepting j 
Christ himself. The construction iriGTtvtiv tig is found 
in John ii, 11; iii, 16, 13, 36; iv, 39; vi, 29, 40 (47): 

vii, 5, 31, 38, 39, 48; viii, 30; ix, 35, 3G; x, 42; xi, 
25, 2G, 45, 48; xii, 11, 37, 42, 44, 4G ; xiv, i, 12; xvi, 
9; xvii, 20; 1 John v, 13. The only passage in the 
writings of John in which another preposition occurs 
is John iii, 15, where Lachniann reads tnavruv, Tis- 
chendorf iv cwt(> j, instead of tig ctvrbv. 

(2.) But the sense of admitting , accepting as true , 
thus far developed, is by no means the whole of John’s 
idea of faith in Christ. It includes not only this, but 
also adherence, to Christ; cleaving to him. See, for in- 
stance, the whole passage, John ix, 35-38, and comp, 
xi, 48 ; x, 2G, 27 ; vi, 69 ; i, 12. Both these are evi- 
dently contained also in the TrtoTtvtiv rtvi, John vi, 30 ; 
coni]), with vi, 29: ri ovv 7rottig ov or)ptiov, iva icw- 
ptv teat TrtGTtvaiofdv aoi (What sign showest thou, 
that we may see and believe in thee.?); 29: 7m 7:ig- 
Ttvoyrs tic ov cnri<TTti\tv 6 S'fot,* (that ye believe on 
him whom lie hath sent). Compare especially also 
Watt, xxvii, 42 ; Mark xv, 32. 

It is plain, now, that John’s idea of faith includes 
the element c e clearing to Christ as well as of accepting 
him ; and this cleaving to him includes the idea of 
full trust in Christ as Saviour, as illustrated in the 
important passage, John iii, 15: ’iva 7 rug b Triortmov 
iv avTfij (that whosoever believeth in him, not tic etv- 
tov. Tiseliendorf iv, Lachniann Itt’ avrbv). “Here 
is involved the anguish, in the believer, of the bite of 
the fiery serpent, and the earnest looking on him in 
whom sin is crucified with the inner eye of faith” (Al- 
ford, in loc.). In this full sense of the word John uses 
irioTtvto by itself (to believe ) in i, 7, 51 ; iv, 41, 42, 48, 
£3; vi, 3G, G4; ix, 38; x, 25, 2G; xi, 15, 40; xii, 39, 
47; xiv, 29; xvi, 31; xix, 35; xx, 31 (comp, iii, 12; 
vi, 69 ; xx, 8, 25, 29). And this faith is the condition 
of the gifts of life, light, and salvation ; John x, 2G, 27 ; 

iii, 12, 16, 18, 36 ; vi, 35, 40, 47 ; vii, 38; xi, 25, 2G; xx, 
31 (comp, v, 38) ; viii, 24 ; i, 12 ; xii, 3G, 46 (comp. 

viii, 12 and xi, 40). 

(3.) Paul’s use of Triortvtiv also includes the idea 
of intellectual conviction, recognition ; see the passages 
above cited under tt tartg, and comp, also Bom. iv, 20 
(strong in faith); i, 5; xvi, 20, and the relation of 
TrirjTtvtiv to KigwGGtiv (Bom. x, 14, 16; 1 Cor. xv, 
2, 11 ; Ephes. i, 13). But the sense of trust in Christ 
as Saviour is always predominant in Paul. The con- 
struction iriGTtvtiv run , to trust , rely upon , is found 
2 Tim. i, 12 (I know in whom I have believed , and am 
persuaded); Tit. iii, 8; Bom. iv, 3; Gal. iii, 6; Bom. 

iv, 6; compare iv, 18. Instead of the dative we find 
TTiaTtvtiv i 7T( nva, Bom. iv, 5: tut rbv bucaiavvra 
tov uotfii} (on him that justifieth the ungodly), iv, 
24. The TTKJTtvtiv tig denotes always faith in Christ 
(Bom. x, 14; Gal. ii, 16; Phil, i, 29); likewise i~i 
with the dative, 1 Tim. i, 16; Bom. ix, 33. And ^ tig- 
rtvtiv is used standing alone to designate the fullest 
trust of faith, Bom. i, 1G; iii, 22; iv, 11, 18; x, 4, 10; 
xiii, 11; xv, 13; 1 Cor. i, 21; iii, 5; xiv, 22; 2 Cor. 
iv, 13 ; Gal. iii, 22 ; Ephes. i, 13, 19 ; 1 Thess. i, 7 ; ii, 
10, 13 ; 2 Thess. i, 10. 

In James ii, 19, to believe denotes intellectual assent, 
but in ver. 23 it denotes trust (see under 7ri'ar»e). In 
Peter the two elements of assent and trust are con- 
joined (comp. 1 Pet. i, 8, with ii, 6, 7 ; i, 21). 

In the Acts and Synoptical Gospels, the import of 
the word (whether assent or trust, or both conjoined) 
must be decided by the context. 

The result of our examination is, that “ faith” in the 
N. T. includes three elements, each and all necessary 
to the full meaning of the word, while one or another 
of them may become prominent according to the con- 
nection, viz. (1) full intellectual acceptance of the rev- 
elation of salvation ; (2) adherence to the truth and to 
the person of Christ thus accepted ; (3) absolute and 


exclusive trust in the redeeming work of Christ for 
salvation. In no one of the writers of the New Testa- 
ment is any one of these three elements wanting. 

(11.) Early History of the Doctrine of Faith. — 1. In 
the early Church, the Pauline doctrine of faith as a 
condition of justification was universally maintained. 
But the Eastern thinkers did not give much attention 
to faith in a doctrinal way, and its true meaning was 
not prominently developed, nor was the distinction be- 
tween faith and works (as conditions) sharply drawn. 
During the Apologetic period (from A. I). 100 to A.D. 
250), while attention was “ principally directed to the- 
oretical knowledge, yitzV/i was for the most part consid- 
ered as historico-dogmatic faith in its relation to yvto- 
Gig. This gave rise to the opinion that knowledge in 
divine things justifies, while ignorance condemns. Mi- 
nucius Felix (f 208), 35 : Imperitia Dei sufficit ad per- 
nam , notitia prodest ad veniam. Theophihis of Antioch 
(| 181) also knows of a fdes histoHca alone, upon 
which he makes salvation to depend, i, 14 : ’A—bbtt&v 
ovv A a(3tov tojv yivoytiaov teed TrpoavaTrtcpm'ijpi l'wi', 
o inc cnrtGTu> , ctAAd martino m&apxuiv $rt<y, oj tv (3ov- 
\ ti Kai gv V7rordyifoi f TriGrtviov avro), yt) idv (ittig- 
SrijGctg, 7rtiG$rjg civubytvog rurt tv aieoidoig Tifuoptcug. 
But, though it was reserved for men of later times to 
investigate more profoundly the idea of justifying faith 
in the Pauline sense, yet correct views on this subject 
were not entirely wanting during this period.” Cle- 
ment of Borne, (f 100) says in a Pauline spirit, “Call- 
ed by the will of God in Christ, we can he justified, not 
by ourselves, not by our own wisdom and piety, but 
only by faith, by which God has justified all in all 
ages. But shall we on this account cease from doing 
good, and give up charity? No, we shall labor with 
unwearied zeal as God, u'ho has called us, always 
works, and rejoices in his works” (1 Ep. ad Cor. c. 32, 
33). Irenaeus (f 202) contrasts the new joyful obedi- 
ence which ensues on the forgiveness of sins with 
the legal stand-point. “The law which VuS given to 
bondmen formed men’s souls by outward corporeal 
•work, for it coerced men by a curse to obey the com- 
mandments, in order that they might learn to obey 
God. But the Word, the Logos who frees the soul, and 
through it the body, teaches a voluntary surrender. 
Ilencc the fetters of the law must be taken off, and 
man accustom himself to the free obedience of love. 
The obedience of freedom must be of a higher kind ; 
we are not allowed to go hack to ouv earlier stand- 
point ; for he has not set ns free in order that we may 
leave him ; this no one can do who has sincerely con- 
fessed him. No one can obtain the blessings of salva- 
tion out of communion with the Lord; and the more 
we obtain from him, so much the more must we love 
him ; and the more we love him, so much greater glo- 
ry shall we receive from him” (Iremeus, Herr. bk. iv, 
chap, xiii, I, 23 ; Neander, History of Dogmas , By land, 
p. 216). Tertullian (220) adv. Marc, v, 3: Ex fide! ii- 
bertate just if cat ur homo , non ex Itgis senitute, quia Jus- 
tus ex fide ririi. According to Clement of Alexandria 
(f 21 ti), faith is not only the key to the knowledge of 
God (Coh. ]>. 9), but bv it we are also made the chil- 
dren of God (ib. p. 23). Clement accurately distin- 
guishes between theoretical and practical unbelief, and 
understands by the latter the want of susceptibility of 
divine impressions, a carnal mind which would have 
everything in a tangible shape (Strom. ii, 4, p. 436). 
Origen (A.D. 250) in Num. Horn, xxvi (Opp. iii, p. 
369) : Impossible est salrari sine fide ; Comm, in Ep. ad 
Rom. (Opp. iv, p. 517): Efiamsi opera quis habeat ex 
lege , lamen, quia non sunt evdificata supra fundamentum 
fidei, quamvis videantur esse bona, tamcn opera torem 
sunjn jvstifieare. non possnnt, quod, cis deestfides, qua? est 
signaeufum eorttm, qni jmfificantnr ei Deo (Hagenbach, 
History of Doctrines , § 70 ; comp, also § 34). A poll i- 
naris (f 385) on John vi, 27, says : “ The eternally en- 
during food, by which we are sealed by the Father and 
assimilated to Christ, is the faith which makes alive 


FAITH 


456 


FAITII 


aiul on ver. 2?, “Faith both justifies and sanctifies 1 soul. For divine things cannot be apprehended by us 
without human works, seeing that it contains within through the senses, the understanding, or the imagi- 
itself the noblest energy, and is not slothful or inac- nation, since they have nothing analogous to all these, 
tive” (Dorner, Person of Christ, Edinb. trails!., div. i, but are exalted above all images. The only vehicle 
vol. ii. p. 389). Hilary (f 8(1 s) : “By faith we become, j of their appropriation is faith. Two elements meet in 
not merely in a moral way, but essentially, one with it — the tendency of tile disposition, and the matter of 
Ui m ” (ibid, p. 118). cognition. This latter is the object of faith, but its 

2 . The Latins, more earnest on the practical than on essence consists in the tendency of the disposition ; 
the theoretical side, seem to have had deeper notions and although this is never altogether without the for- 
of faith (see Tertullian, cited above). But the minds mer, yet it constitutes the value of faith. Bernard 
of theologians were turned almost wholly to the doc- agrees with Hugo in his view' of the nature of faith: 
trines of sin, grace, and free will (Pelagian controver- | ‘ even now,’ he say's, ‘many who believe with con Ik 
sy), and not to the appropriation of redemption by ( dence have only scanty' knowledge ; thus many 7 in the 
faith. The relations of faith to knowledge were set O. T. retained firm faith in God, and received salva- 


forth clearly and strongly, however, in the maxim 
Fhks priecedit intellectual , first announced by Origen, 
and adopted by Augustine (Fpist. exx, 3 ; ed. Migne, 
ii, 458, cited by r Shedd, Ilistorj) of Doctrines , i, 1G2). 
Compare also Augustine, De Utilitate Creelendi , c. x- 
xiii, where he shows the natural analogies for faith ; 
e. g. that friendship among men, filial piety', etc., are 
grounded on faith, lie makes a distinction between 
tides qua} and tides qua creditor (De Trin. xiii, 2); 
and uses the phrase fides Catholica in the objective 
sense, to denote the body' of doctrine “ necessary 7 to a 
Christian” ( De temp, serin. 53; and ctdv. Jud. c. xix). 
Augustine, say's Melancthon, did not set forth fully 7 
Pauls doctrine, though he came nearer to it than the 
Scholastics ( Letter to Brentius , opp. ed. Bretschneider, 
ii, 502). 

3. In the scholastic period the idea of the kingdom 
of God degenerated into that of an ecclesiastical theoc- 
racy, and the outward side of the religious life (pen- 
ance and good works) was prominent. Nevertheless, 
the great doctrinal truths of Christianity 7 were care- 
fully 7 studied, and the aim of the greatest thinkers 
(e. g. Anselm) was to show that faith can be verified 
to the intellect as truth, while, at the same time, it is 
the necessary 7 condition of science, as well as of salva- 
tion. “First of all,” lie say's, “faith must purify 7 the 
heart : we must humble ourselves, and become as lit- 
tle children. He who believes not cannot experience ; 
he who lias not experienced cannot understand. Noth- 
ing can be done till the soul rises on the wings of faith 
to God” ( De, Fide Trinitat. c. ii). The great Greek 
theologian, John of Damascus (8th century 7 ), who may 7 
be considered as beginning the period of scholastic 
theology, defined faith as consisting of two things: 1. 
belief in the truth of revealed doctrines, the tt'kjtiq 
( iKoi]Q (the faith which cometli by hearing. Bom. x,l») ; 
2. firm confidence in the promises of God, the faith 
which is “the substance of things hoped for, the evi- 
dence of things not seen” (Ileb. xi, 1). The first of 
these, lie says, is the work of our own minds; the sec- 
ond is the gift of the Spirit ( Di Fide Orthxl. iv, 10). 
“Anselm comprises the whole doctrine of faith and 
morals in the question, how man appropriates redemp- 
tion to himself. He says, ‘The mere idea does not 
make faith, although this cannot exist without an ob- 
ject; in order to true faith the right tendency of the 
will must be added, which grace imparts’ (De Gratia 
et IJbero Arbitrio, c. vi). lie distinguishes (Monolo- 
gium , p. 72; compare p. 75) between credere Dcum, 
Christum , and credere in 7 Demi, ix Christum; the for- 
mer denotes a mere outward faith which only 7 retains 
the form ; the latter denotes the t ue, living faith, 
which 1 iy r s hold of communion with God (credendo 
tend 0 re in dirinam essentiam) : the former is value- 
less and dead; the latter contains the power of love, 
and testifies its pow'er and its life hy 7 love. The faith 
which is connected with love cannot be inoperative; 
it proves its vitality 7 by so operating. Hugo of St. 
Victor develops the general idea of faith in connection 
with the religious nature of man. Faith marks the 
manner in which invisible blessings dwell, within our 
souls ( quodim modi in nobis subsistunf), the real vital 
communion w'ith God, his true existence in the human 


| tion by 7 this faith, although they' knew not when and 
j how salvation would come to them.’ Abelard's ex- 
pressions are also important (Sentent. c. iv). ‘Faith,’ 
he say r s, ‘al way's refers to the invisible, never to the 
visible. But how is this? when Christ said to Thom- 
as, “ Because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed.” 
What Thomas saw before him w'as one thing, what he 
believed w as another. He confessed the man whom he 
saw to be the Lord, in w'hom he believed, lie saw' the 
tlesli, but be believed in the God veiled in the flesh’ ” 
(Neandcr, Church History , Torrey, iv, 375). : ‘ Not mere- 
ly Abelard, but also most of the other schoolmen, un- 
derstood h y Justificatio per fidem not objective just i- 
fleation, but a subjective character of the disposition, 
which proceeds from faith, the true inward sanctifica- 
tion in love which arises out of faith. Bernard, on the 
I other hand, was led by his experience to a more objec- 
tive view: ‘No one is without sin ( Sermo on Solo- 
mon's Song , 23, § 15) ; for all righteousness it is enough 
for me that he is gracious to me who has redeemed me. 
Christ is not merely righteous (Jb. 22, § 8), but right- 
eousness itself.’ The scholastic doctrine on this point 
received a fixed form through Peter Lombard ( Sen- 
tent . iii, dist. 28). lie makes a threefold distinction 
in faith : Deum credere, Deo credere , and in Deum or 
Christum credere. The two first amount merely to 
holding a thing to be true, but the last is the faith by 7 
which w 7 e enter into communion with God. With 
such a faith love is necessarily 7 connected, and this 
faith alone is justifying. Love is the effect of this 
faith, and the ground of the whole Christian life. Ap- 
plying to faith the Aristotelian distinction between the 
form as the formative principle (Geos, forma), and the 
inorganic material determined by 7 it (cA?;, materus), 
Peter distinguishes faith as the qual fas mentis wformis, 
the mere material of faith, and the fides formata , w hen 
the vivifying power of love is added to it, which forms 
and determines it. The a /Ecfej formata is a true virtue, 
and this faith, working by love, alone justifies” (Ne- 
ander, History of Dogmas, By la nd, p. 522 sq.). 

The Scholastics generally 7 recognised the distinction 
(hinted by' Augustine) between objective and subjec- 
tive faith (fides qua crcditur and fides qwe creditor), 
and also distinguished between developed ( explicit a ) 
and undeveloped ( [implicita ) faith (Aquinas, Summa, ii, 
qu. 1, art. 7). But in all the scholastic period, the prev- 
alence of the sacerdotal theory 7 of religion hindered, if 
it did not absolutely prevent, a just apprehension of the 
nature of faith, and naturally 7 developed the theory 7 of 
the merit of good works. Peter Lombard, indeed, says 
that good w'orks are those only 7 that spring from the 
love of God, which love itself is the fruit of faith (opus 
fidei; Sentent. lib. iii, dist. 23, D); but the “view's of 
Thomas Aquinas were not quite so scriptural; thus 
(Summ. pt. ii, 2, qu. 4, art. 7) he speaks of faith itself as 
a virtue, though he assigns to it the first and highest 
place among all virtues.” He defines faith to be “an 
act of the intellect assenting to divine truth in virtue 
of the operation of the Spirit of God upon the will” 
(Summa, ii, 2, 1, 4), and reckons faith among the the- 
ological virtues, which he distinguishes from the ethi- 
cal (Neandcr, HVss. Abhandhnig. ed. Jacobi, 1851, p.**2). 

1 “ Such notions, however, led more and more to Jio 


FAITH 


45 7 


FAITH 


revival of Pelagianism, till the forerunners of the Ref- 
ormation returned to the simpler truths of the Gospel” 
(Hagenbach, History of Doctrines, § 18G). According 
10 Aquinas, the faith by which we are cleared from sin 
is not the fdes in for mis, which can coexist with sin; but 
is the fid s fonnata per charitatem (faith informed by 
love). Jn justification there is a motus charitatis as 
well as a motus fidei (Summit, pt. iii, qn. 44, art. 1). This 
statement contains the germ of the later Roman Cath- 
olic doctrine (see other passages in Mohler, Symbolism , 
N. Y. 1844, p. ‘205 ; comp. Beck, Dogmengeschichte, 1SG4, 
p. 3G5). Its doctrine (as that of the period generally) 
is that justification is “not an objective act, but some- 
thing subjective, making man internally righteous by 
the communication of the divine life in fellowship with 
Christ. For the attainment of justifeatio , moreover, 
faith can only be tbe first step ; it was not sufficient 
for justification, but love must be added; the gratia 
justijicans was first given in the fdes format a, making 
man internally righteous. Since this external idea 
of faith required that for effecting justification some- 
thing must be added from without, the additional aid 
of the Church here was demanded” (Meander, Dogmas, 
p. GG1). See Justification. 

4. John Wessel (j 1489) was a precursor of the Ref- 
ormation in his views on faith, as well as on many 
other points. None of the theologians of the Scholas- 
tic age expressed the principle of faith so fully in the 
Pauline spirit as Wessel. lie considers it “ not a mere 
taking for granted of historical facts, but the devotion 
of the whole mind to fellowship with God through 
Christ; it is the basis of the whole higher life; not 
merely in the relations of man to man, but also in the 
relations of man to God” (Ullmann, Reformers before 
the R formation, Edinb. 1855, ii, 468). 

Practically, at the dawn of the Reformation (and 
for ages before), Christian people were taught by their 
pastors that the pardon of sin was to be secured, not 
by faith in the merits of Christ, but by penitential ob- 
servances and good works, followed by priestly abso- 
lution; and faith itself was generally held to be sim- 
ply the reception of the teaching of the Church. In 
practice, faith was transformed into credulity. 

(III.) The Protestant and Roman Catholic Doctrines 
of Faith compared. — The Protestant Doctrine. — The cen- 
tral point of the Reformation, in a doctrinal point of 
view, was justification by faith. Its development will 
be treated in onr article Justification; wc can here 
only briefly give the distinction between tlic Protestant 
and Roman Catholic doctrines of faith: 1. that of the 
Reformers ; 2. that of the Roman Catholic Church. 

1. The Reformers. — The Reformers, in opposition to 
the Scholastic doctrine of justification as a subjective 
work (the making just), brought out prominently the 
objeciire idea of justification (as a work done for us by 
Christ). “ On the other side, correspondingly, they re- 
garded faith as subjective, and as the principle of the 
transformation of the whole inner life” (Xeander, Dog- 
mas, ii, GG2). The prominent position of faith in the 
theology of the Reformers was a fundamental part of 
the change that was taking place, at the time, in the 
general religious views of Christendom. “The mind 
was not satisfied with an objective and outward salva- 
tion, however valid and reliable it might be. It desired 
a consciousness of being saved ; it craved an experience 
of salvation. The Protestant mind could not rest in 
the Church, neither could it pretend to rest in an atone- 
ment that was unappropriated. The objective work of 
Christ on Calvary must become tbe subjective experi- 
ence and rejoicing of the soul itself. 'While, however, 
the principle and act of faith occupies such a promi- 
nent place in the soteriology of the Reformation, we 
should not fail to notice that it is never represented as 
a procuring cause of justification ; it is only the instru- 
mental cause. Protestantism was exceedingly care- 
ful to distinguish justification from legal righteousness 
on the one hand, and f.om sanctification by graco on 


the other. It could not, consequently, concede to any 
species of human agency, however excellent, a piacu- 
lar and atoning efficacy. Hence we find none of that 
supplementary or perfecting of the work of Christ by 
the work of the creature which is found in the papal 
soteriology. And this applies to the highest of acts, 
the act of faith itself. Faith itself, though the gift and 
the work of God. does not justify, speaking accurately, 
but merely accepts that which does justify” (Shodd, 
History of Doctrines, ii, 337-8). Luther was led to the 
true Pauline doctrine of faith by his profound convic- 
tion of the desperate condition of humanity, not sim- 
ply from its sense of finiteness (which could only have 
led him to faith as a realization of the invisible and 
eternal), blit also and chiefly from the crushing sense 
of personal guilt on account of sin. He regards faith 
not merely as a mere attribute, but, “ so to speak, as a 
substantial and divine tiling, so far as it cleaves to 
God, and God is in it. Faith is in the state of the unio 
mysiica, union with God; and yet it is, at the same 
time, man’s true existence.” It is no mere intellect- 
ual act, but a giving up of the whole man to trust in 
Christ; and conversely, a penetration of the whole 
man by the life of Christ. “ Faith makes new crea- 
tures of ns. Mv holiness and righteousness do not 
spring from myself; they arise alone out of Christ, in 
whom 1 am rooted by faith” (Dorner, Person of Christ, 
ii,5S, 64). In the Preface to the Epistle to the Romans, 
Luther says : “Faith alone justifies, and it alone fulfils 
the law ; for faith, through the merits of Christ, obtains 
the Holy Spirit. And then, at length, from the faith 
thus efficaciously working and living in the heart, freely 
( f uunt ) proceed those works which are truly good. . . . 
But faith is an energy in the heart; at once so effica- 
cious, lively, breathing, and powerful as to be incapa- 
ble of remaining inactive, but bursts forth into opera- 
tion. Neither does he who has faith ( [moratur ) demur 
about the question whether good works have been com- 
manded or not ; but even though there were no law, 
feeling the motions of this living impulse putting forth 
and exerting itself in his heart, he is spontaneously 
borne onward to work, and at no time does he cease to 
perform such actions as are truly pious and Christian. 
Faith, then, is a constant fiducia, a trust in the mercy 
of God toward ns ; a trust living and efficaciously work- 
ing in the heart, by which we cast ourselves entirely 
on God, and commit ourselves to him ; by which, cer - 
to freti , having an assured reliance, we feel no hesita- 
tion about enduring death a thousand times.” “ Lu- 
ther laid the greatest stress at all times on the assur- 
ance of salvation, and of the divine truth of Christian- 
ity. The ground certainty, on which all other cer- 
tainty depends, is with him the justification of the sin- 
ner for Christ’s sake apprehended by faith ; of which 
it is only the objective statement to say that to him 
the fundamental certainty is Christ as the Redeemer, 
through surrender to whom faith has full satisfaction, 
and knows that it stands in the truth” (Dorner, Ge- 
schichte d. Prat. Theol., Munchen, 18G7, p. 224). “To 
believe those things to be true which arc preached of 
Christ is not sufficient to constitute thee a Christian ; 
but thou must not doubt that thou art of the number 
of them unto whom all the benefits of Christ are given 
and exhibited, which he that believes must plainly 
confess, that he is holy, godly, righteous, the Son of 
God, and certain of salvation, and that by no merit of 
his own, but by the mere mercy of God poured forth 
upon him for Christ’s sake” (Luther, Sei'in. on Gal. i, 
4-7, in Fish, J fasUrpieces of Pulpit 1H quence, i, 4G2). 

Zwingle held that faith, in the sense of the appro- 
priation by man, through grace, of the redemptive work 
of Christ, is the only means or instrument of salva- 
tion. It was one of his grounds of objection to the 
Roman and Lutheran doctrines of the Eucharist that 
these doctrines detract from the glory of faith by rep- 
resenting it as insufficient for salvation (Dorner, Per- 
son of Christ , div. ii, vol. ii, p. 116). Melancthcn, in 


FAITII 


458 


FAITH 


a letter to Brentins, May, 1531, says: “Faith alone 
(so/ /) justifies, not because it is the root (radix), as you 
write, but because it lays hold of Christ, on whose ac- 
count we are accepted. It is not love, the fulfilling 
of the law, which justifies, but faith alone, not because 
it is a perfection in us, but only because it lays hold on 
Christ” (edit. Brctsehneider, Hal. Sax. 1835, ii, 501). 
Calvin (Institutes, bk. iii, chap, xi) treats of faith at 
large, and distinguishes it from “a common assent to 
the evangelical history,” and refutes the nugatory 
distinction made by the schools between files for mat a 
and fries informis. “ The disputes of the schools con- 
cerning faith, by simply styling God the object of it, 
rather mislead miserable souls by a vain speculation 
than direct them to the proper mark. For, since God, 
‘dwelleth in the light which no man can approach 
unto,' there is a necessity for the interposition of 
Christ as the medium of access to him.” “This evil, 
then, as well as innumerable others, must be imputed 
to the schoolmen, who have, as it were, concealed 
Christ by drawing a veil over him ; whereas, unless 
our views be immediately and steadily directed to 
him, we shall always be wandering through labyrinths 
without end. They not only, bytheir obscure defini- 
tions, diminish, and almost annihilate, all the impor- 
tance of faith, but have fabricated the notion of im- 
plicit faith, a term with which they have honored the 
grossest ignorance, and most perniciously deluded the 
miserable multitude.” “Is this faith — to understand 
nothing, but obediently to submit our understanding 
to the Church? Faith consists not in ignorance, but 
in knowledge ; and that not only of God, but also of 
the divine will. . . . For faith consists of a knowledge 
of God ami of Christ, not in reverence to the Church. 
... In short, no man is truly a believer unless he be 
firmly persuaded that God is a propitious and benevo- 
lent Father to him, and promise himself everything 
from his goodness; unless. he depend on the promises 
of divine benevolence to him, and feels an undoubted 
expectation of salvation. lie is no believer, I say, 
who does not rely on the security (This salvation, and 
confidently triumph over the devil and death” (Cal- 
vin, Institutes , bk. iii, eh. ii). 

The passages from the several Confessions will be 
given more fully in the art. Justification ; we cite 
here a few. Augsburg Confession. — “Men are justi- 
fied freely for Christ's sake through faith when they 
believe that they are received into favor, and their 
sins are remitted for Christ’s sake; this faith doth 
God impute for righteousness upon him” (Art. iv). 
The nature of saving faith is set forth in Art. xx : “ It 
is to be observed here that a mere historical belief, 
such as wicked men and devils have, is not here 
meant, who also believe in the history of the suffer- 
ings of Christ, and in his resurrection from the dead; 
but that genuine faith is here meant which causeth us 
to believe that we can obtain grace and forgiveness of 
sins through Christ, and which giveth us the confi- 
dence that through Christ we have a merciful God, 
which also gives ns the assurance to know God, to eall 
upon him, and to have him always in remembrance, 
so that the believer is not without God, as are the 
Gentiles” (compare the Apology for the Confession, art. 
ii, iii). Heidelberg Catechism. — Qu. 21. “ What is true 
fuith? Ans. It is not only a certain knowledge 
whereby I hold for truth all that God has revealed to 
us in his word, but also n hearty trust, which the 
Holy Ghost works in me by the Gospel, that not only 
to others, but to me also, forgiveness of sins, everlast- 
ing righteousness, and salvation are freely given bv 
God, merely of grace, only for the sake of Christ’s 
merit.” Remonstrants' Confession (xi, 1). — “Faith in 
Christ is a fi rin assent (ass nsus) of the mind to the 
word of God, joined with true trust ( Jiducia ) in Christ, 
so that we not only faithfully- receive Christ’s doc- 
trine as true and divine, but rest wholly on Christ him- 
self for salvation.” Westminster Confession (10, 14). — 


“Faith, thus receiving and resting on Christ and his 
righteousness, is the alone instrument of justification : 
yet it . . . is no dead faith, but worketh by love. By 
this faith a Christian believeth to be true whatsoever 
is revealed in the word . . . but the principal acts of 
saving faith are accepting, receiving, and resting upon 
Christ alone for justification, sanctification, and eter- 
nal life, by virtue of the covenant of grace. This faith 
is different in degrees, weak or strong; may be often 
and many ways assailed and weakened, but gets the 
victory, growing up in many to the attainment of a 
full assurance through Christ.” In all the Confes- 
sions, both Lutheran and Reformed, faith is held to be 
a laying hold on Christ, by whom we are saved (and. 
not l>y our own works, or by any work of sanctifica- 
tion done in ns). 

2. Roman Catholic Doctrine. — The Augsburg Con- 
fession (Art. xx) speaks of the long desuetude of the 
doctrine of faith in the Church, and the substitution 
of childish and needless works (fasts, pilgrimages, 
etc.), as the great cause of its corruption, and furnish- 
ing the chief occasion for the reformation of doctrine. 
“Our adversaries now,” they say (A.D. 1530), “do 
not preach concerning these unprofitable works as 
they were wont : moreover, they have now learned to 
make mention of faith, about which, in former times, 
entire silence was observed. They now teach that we 
are not justified before God by works alone, but join 
faith in Christ thereto, and sa} T faith and works justify 
us before God.; which doctrine imparts more consola- 
tion than mere confidence in good works.” This was 
the chief theological dispute of the Reformation, and 
was also the main topic of theological discussion at 
the Council of Trent (1545-G3). A few of the divines 
there (the archbishop of Sienna, the bishop of Cava, 
and others) held that faith alone justifies ; but this an- 
cient doctrine was too inconsistent with the sacerdotal 
system to find favor with the majority. “ Great pains 
were taken to discuss thoroughly the assertion that 
‘man is justified by faith,’ and to affix some determi- 
nate meaning to that expression ; but the task was not 
easy. Some busied themselves in searching for the 
different senses in which the word ‘fjth’ is used in 
Scripture, which they made to amount to fifteen, but 
knew not in which it is employed when applied to jus- 
tification. At length, after much disputing, it was 
agreed that faith is the belief of all things which God 
has revealed, or the Church has commanded to be be- 
lieved. It was distinguished into two sorts: the one 
I said to exist even in sinners, and which was termed 
unformed, barren, and dead ; the other peculiar to the 
just, and working by charity, and thence called form- 
ed, efficacious , and living faith. Still, as father Paul 
observes, ‘they touched not the principal point of the 
difficulty, which was to ascertain whether a man is 
' justified before he works righteousness, or whether he 
is justified ly his works of righteousness” (Cramp, 
Text-book of Popery, eh. vii). 

The decision of the Council is as follows (sess. vi, c. 
viii): “When the apostle says that man is justified 
‘ by faith,’ and ‘freely,’ these words are to be under- 
stood in that sense in which the Catholic Church hath 
always held and explained them, namely, that we are 
said to be justified ‘ by faith’ because faith is the be- 
ginning of human salvation, the foundation and root 
of all justification, without which it is impossible to 
please God, and come into the fellowship of his chil- 
dren ; and that we are said to be justified ‘ freely,’ be- 
cause nothing which precedes justification, whether 
faith or works, can deserve the grace thereof.” Here 
two things are to he noted : (1.) That the Roman idea 
of faith in general is that of the acceptance of the body 
of doctrine taught hv the Church: “La foi neces- 
saire pour la justification est la foi Catholique d’apr&s 
laquclle nous eroyons ce que Dieu a revele a son 
6glise” (Drioux, note to his edit, of Aquinas’s Sumnui, 
vi, GOO) ; thus substantially making the intellect alone 


FAITH 


459 


FAITH 


the seat of faith, as Bellarmine expressly puts it in his | 
contrast between the Protestant and the Roman ideas 
of faith: “hzeretiei fidem jiducium esse deiiniunt; Ca- 
tholici fidem in intelkctu sedem habere vohint” ( De 
Justif i, 4). How thoroughly external a thing tins 
faith may become in practice is evinced by the fact 
that the recitation of a creed, in Romanist language, is 
called an “act of faith” (Bergier, Diet . de Theologie , iii, 
54). (2.) That, accordingly, the Council of Trent makes 
faith only the “beginning of human salvation” (salutis 
humane?, initium ), and “the root of all justification” (ru- \ 
dix omnis justijicationis). If faith is simply an intel- 
lectual act, it is fitly described as only the “begin- 
ning” of justification, and not its instrument. So kibb- 
ler, in commenting on this passage, expressly says that ( 
“ Roman Catholics consider faith as the reunion with 
God in Christ especially by means of the faculty of i 
knowledge, illuminated and strengthened by grace” | 
(. Symbolism , N. Y. 1844, p. 204). In the same vein is 
the definition given by the Catechism of Trent, viz. 
that the “faith necessary to salvation is that faith by 
which we yield our entire assent to whatever has been 
revealed by almighty God” (Baltimore edit. p._19). It 
is plain that the notion of faith, as Protestants hold it, 
and as they believe that Paul held it, is totally want- 
ing in the Roman doctrine. Naturally, too, with this 
conception of faith, the Romanists deny that faith alone 
justifies, affirming, in the way of the Scholastics (see 
above), that faith must be informed by charity, as the 
germ of new obedience, a gift bestowed first in bap- 
tism, and renewed by confession and absolution. So 
J. II. Newman ( Difficulties of A nglicanism, cited by 
Hare, Contest with home, p. 113) declares that Roman 
“Catholics hold that faith and love, faith and obedi- 
ence, faith and works, are simply separable, and ordi- 
narily separated in fact; that faith does not imply 
love, obedience, or works ; that the firmest faith, so as 
to move mountains, may exist without love — that is, 
true faith, as truly faith in the strict sense of the word 
as the faith of a martyr or a doctor.” On this Hare 
remarks : “This belief is not faith. To many persons, 
indeed, it may appear that this is little more than a 
dispute about words ; that we use the word faith in one 
sense, and the Romanist in another, and that it is not 
worth while to argue about the matter. But when we 
call to mind how great are the power and the bless- 
ings promised to faith by the Gospel, it surely is a 
question of the highest moment whether that power 
and those blessings belong to a lifeless, inert, inani- 
mate notion, or to a living, energetic principle. This 
is the great controversy between Romanism and Pro- 
testantism. Their stay is the opus operatnm , ours fdes 
operans — faith, the gift of God, apprehending him 
through Christ, renewing the whole man, and becom- 
ing the living spring of his feelings, and thoughts, and 
actions” ( Contest with Rome, note l). A letter of Bun- 
sen’s in 1840 illustrates the Roman idea of faith, as it 
had taken root in t lie mind of J. II. Newman before he 
went over to Rome. A pastor in Antwerp (named 
Sporlein) was troubled about episcopal ordination, and 
came to England for light. He was invited to break- 
fast at Newman’s, and found him and a number of his 
friends ready to hear him. “ He unburdened his heart 
to them, and they gave their decision — the verdict of a 
Newmanic jury on a case of conscience, viz. that ‘Pas- 
tor Sporlein, as a Continental Christian, was subject to 
the authority of the bishop of Antwerp.’ lie objected 
that by that bishop he would be excommunicated as a 
heretic. ‘ Of course ; but you will conform to his decis- 
ion.’ ‘ How can I do that,’ exclaimed Sporlein, ‘with- 
out abjuring my faith?’ ‘But your faith is heresy.’ 
‘How? Do you mean that I am to embrace the "er- 
rors of Rome, and to abjure the faith of the Gospel?’ 

‘ There is no faith but that of the Church.’ ‘ But my 
faith is in Christ crucified.’ ‘ You are mistaken ; you 
are not saved by Christ, but by the Church’ ” ( Memoir 
of Bunsen , by his Widow, London, 18G8, i, G14). 


(IY.) Later Protestantism. — 1. Whatever minor dif- 
ferences may have arisen in Protestant theology as to 
faith, all evangelical theologians agree in the follow- 
ing points: 1. That saving faith not only recognises 
the supernatural, but also accepts and trusts absolutely 
on Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as Saviour; 2. that 
this saving power is the gift of God ; 3. that it invari- 
ably brings forth good works; 4. that the faith which 
appropriates the merits of Christ must be a living 
faith ; 5. that it is not the faith, nor the vitality of the 
faith, which justifies and saves man, but it is the ol- 
ject of the faith, i. e. the merits of Christ the Redeem- 
er, and therefore that it is an error to attach a saving 
quality to any merely subjective faith. The earlier 
Reformers and Confessions made assurance an essen- 
tial part of saving faith, but this doctrine was not long 
held. See Assurance; Justification. 

2. Divisions of Faith. — Faith is divided by the theo- 
logians into Jules historica and fdes salrlfica (historical 
faith and saving faith). r i lie former is intellectual 
knowledge and belief of the Christian doctrine; the lat- 
ter a genuine appropriation of the merits of Christ unto 
salvation. True faith embraces both. The parts of 
faith, in theological language, are three: a. Xotitia (act 
of the intellect), knowledge, instruction in the facts and 
doctrines of Christianity (Rom. x, 14). b. A ssensus (act 
of the will), assent to the doctrine, or reception of it as 
true and credible, c. Fiducia (act of the heart), trust 
or confidence in the divine word. “ True and saving 
faith in Christ consists both of assent and trust ; but 
this is not a blind and superstitious trust in the sacri- 
fice of Christ, like that of the heathens in their sacri- 
fices, nor the presumptuous trust of wicked and im- 
penitent men, who depend on Christ to save them in 
their sins, but such a trust as is exercised according 
to the authority and direction of the word of God; so 
that to blow the Gospel in its leading principles, and 
to have a cordial of belief in it, is necessary to that 
mere specific act of faith which is called reliance, or, 
in systematic language, fiducial assent ” (Watson, In- 
stitutes, ii, 243). 

3. Faith in Chnst ; justifying Faith — Faith as Con- 

dition of Salvation. — («.) Though the entire revelation 
of God is set forth, in one sense, as the object of faith 
(Luke xxiv, 25, 2G ; lleb. xi), yet Christ, the incar- 
nate Son of God, the dying and risen Redeemer, is 
tear the object of faith (Gal.ii, 1G; John xvii, 

21). In the evangelical churches, justifying faith is 
understood to he exercised specifically in Christ, as 
bv his death making expiation and satisfaction for the 
sinner’s guilt, or (to put the same idea in another light) 
in God’s covenant with mankind in Christ, as offering 
them pardon for the sake of Christ’s death ; and this 
faith is yet viewed merely as a condition of justifica- 
tion. (5.) “ What faith is it, then, thiough which we 
are saved? It may he answered, first, in general, it 
is a faith in Christ ; Christ, and God through Christ, 
are the proper objects of it. Herein, therefore, it is 
sufficient!}’-, absolutely distinguished from the faith 
either of ancient or modern heathens. And from the 
faith of a devil it is fully distinguished by this — it is 
not barely a speculative, rational thing, a cold, lifeless 
assent, a train of ideas in the head, but also a disposi- 
tion of the heart. For thus saith the Scripture, ‘With 
the heart man believeth unto righteousness.’ And, 

‘ If tli on slialt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, 
and shalt believe with thy heart that God hath raised 
him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.’ It acknowl- 
edges his death as the only sufficient means of redeem- 
ing man from death eternal, and his resurrection as 
the restoration of us all to life and immortality; inas- 
much as lie ‘ was delivered for our sins, and rose again 
for our justification.’ Christian faith is, then not only 
an assent to the whole Gospel of Christ, but also a full 
reliance on the blood of Christ; a trust in the merits 
of his life, death, and resurrection ; a recumbency 
upon him as our atonement and our life, as given for 


FAITH 


4G0 


FAITH 


us, anil living in us. It is a sure confidence which a 
man hath in God that through the merits of Christ his 
sins are forgiven, and he reconciled to the favor of 
God; and in consequence thereof, a closing with him, 
and cleaving to him, as our £ wisdom, righteousness, 
sanctification, and redemption,’ or, in one word, our 
salvation” (Wesley, Serm. on Justification), (c.) Faith 
is not meritoriously, but instrumentallv, the condition 
of our pardon. “If Christ had not merited, God had 
not promised ; if God had not promised, justification 
had never followed on this faith : so that the indisso- 
luble connection of faith and justification is from God’s 
institution, whereby he hath bound himself to give the 
benefit upon performance of the condition. Yet there 
is an aptitude in faith to be made a condition ; for no 
other act can receive Christ as a priest propitiating 
and pleading the propitiation, and the promise of God 
for his sake to give the benefit. As receiving Christ 
and his gracious promise in this manner, it acknowl- 
edged man’s guilt, and so man renounceth all right- 
eousness in himself, and honoreth God the Father, and 
Christ the Son as the only Redeemer. It glorifies 
God’s mercy and free grace in the highest degree. It 
acknowledged on earth, as it will be perpetually ac- 
knowledged in heaven, that the whole salvation of sin- 
ful man, from the beginning to the l ist degree there- 
of, whereof there shall be no end, is from God’s freest 
love, Christ’s merit and intercession, his own gracious 
promise, and the power of his own Holy Spirit” (Law- 
son). Wesley, speaking of faith as the condition of our 
justification, says, ‘‘We mean this much, that it is the 
only thing without which no one is justified ; the only 
thing that is immediately, indispensably, absolutely 
requisite in order to pardon. As, on the one hand, 
though a mill should have everything else, without 
faith, yet he cannot be justified; so, on the other, 
though he be supposed to want everything else, yet if 
he hath faith he cannot but be justified. For suppose 
a sinner of any kind or degree, in a full sense of his 
total ungodliness, of his total inability to think, speak, 
or do good — suppose, I say, this sinner, helpless and 
hopeless, casts himself wholly on the mere}" of God in 
Christ (which, indeed, he cannot do but by the grace 
of God), who will affirm that any more is required be- 
fore that sinner can be justified ?” (Wesley, Sermon on 
Justification ; Neander, Planting and Training , ii, 128 
sip). “Faith, as it is mere belief, may be produced 
bv rational evidence. But when that is attained, the 
work of grace in the heart is nowhere said in Scrip- 
ture to be carried on by the natural operation of these 
credited truths. The contrary fact, that men often 
credit them and remain uninfluenced by them, is ob- 
vious. When a different state of mind ensues, it is 
ascribed to the quickening influence of the Spirit, an 
influence which may be ordinarily resisted. By that 
influence men are ‘pricked in their heart;’ and the 
heart is prepared to feel the dread impression which is 
conveyed by the manifestation of mail’s perishing 
state, not merely in the doctrine of the word, but as it 
st mils in the Spirit’s application to the heart and con- 
science. But, though this was previously credited, 
and is still credited ; and though its import and mean- 
ing are now more full}’ perceived as the perishing 
condition of the awakened man is more clearly discov- 
ered, the faith of affiance docs not therefore follow. 
A person in these circumstances is not to be likened to 
a man drowning, who will instinctively seize the rope 
as soon as it is thrown out to him. There is a per- 
verse disposition in man to seek salvation in his own 
way, and to stand on terms with his Saviour. There 
is a reluctance to trust wholly in his atonement, and 
to lie saved by grace. There is a sin of unbelief, an 
evil heart of unbelief, a repugnance to the committal 
of the soul to Christ, which the influence of grace, not 
merely knowledge of the opposite truth and duty, 
must conquer. Even when this is subdued, and man 
is made willing to be saved in the appointed way, a 


I want of power is felt, not to credit the truth of the 
sacrifice of Christ, or its merits, or its sufficiency, but 
| a want of power to trust wholly, and with confidence, 
in it, as to the issue. It is then that, like the disci- 
ples, and all good men in all ages, every man in these 
circumstances prays for faith ; for this power to trust 
personally, and for himself, in the atonement made 
for his sins. Thus lie recognises Christ as ‘the Au- 
thor anil Finisher of faith,’ and faith as the gift of 
God, though his own duty: thus there is in the mind 
an entire renunciation of self on the one hand, and a 
, seeking of all from Christ on the other, which cannot 
but be followed by the gift of faith, and by the joy 
which springs, not from mere sentiment, but from the 
attestation of the Spirit to our acceptance with God. 
Then the Holy Spirit is given, not only as the Com- 
forter, but as the Sanctifier. It is in this way, too, 
that faith saves ns to the end, by connecting us with 
the exerted influence and power of God, through 
i Christ. ‘ The life that I live in the flesh, I live by 
faith in the Son of God, who loved me, and gave him- 
| self for me.’ These are views which will, it is true, 
be a stumbling-stone and a rock of offence to the phi- 
I losophers of this world. But there is no remedy in 
| concession. Still this will stand, ‘Whosoever rcceiv- 
eth not the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no 
wise enter therein’ ” (Watson, 1 Boris, London, 1835, 
vii, 224). 

Fyc Smith ( First Lines of Christian Theology , bk. v, 
cb.v, § 3) defines the specific act of saving faith to bo 
that act of the mind which directly and necessarily 
arises from the principle of faith, which is the proper 
and characteristic exertion of that principle, and in 
which the real nature, design, and tendency of genu- 
ine faith is made apparent. This act or exercise is 
expressed in Scripture by the terms “ coming to Christ 
— looking to him — receiving him — eating the flesh of 
the Son of Man, and drinking his blood — trusting in 
him, and being fully persuaded of his truth and faith- 
fulness.” It is that which our old and excellent di- 
vines usually denoted by the phrase (perhaps too fa- 
miliar, but very expressive and easily understood) 
closing with Christ. President Edwards expresses it 
thus: “The whole act of acceptance, or closing of the 
| soul or heart with Christ” ( JForis, viii, 54fi). “ Faith 

is an assured resting of the soul upon God’s promises 
of mere}’ in Jesus Christ for pardon of sins here and 
glory hereafter” (Dr. Owen’s Catechisni). 

4. It has been said (above) that Protestant theologi- 
ans are substantially agreed as to the nature of saving 
faith. But tli.ere is a class of divines in the Church 
of England (the so-called sacramental or Romanizing 
party) who seem to have gone back wholly to the 
i scholastic doctrine of faith, if not, indeed, to that of 
Rome. One of the best writers of this school is bishop 
Forbes, of Brechin, who, in treating on Art. xi of the 
Church of England, asserts that the faith by which we 
arc justified is not the fiducia of Luther, but is “ that 
beginning and root of the Christian life whereby we 
willingly believe, etc.,” thus adopting the very phrase- 
ology of Trent in framing his definition of faith. So, 
also, he adopts Bellarmine’s statement that “love is 
the vivifying principle of the faith which impotrates 
justification.” AYhile he admits that the fathers often 
affirm that wc are justified by faith alone, he adds that 
“they never intended, by the word alone, to exclude 
all works of faitli and grace from the causes of justi- 
fication and eternal salvation” ( Explanation of the 39 
A rticles , London, 1867, i, 177 sq.). These views are not 
Protestant; yet bishop Forbes, and the set of theologi- 
ans who agree with him in going back to Burnish doc- 
trine, still belong to a Church which calls itself Protes- 
tant. In happy contrast, we cite another divine of the 
, same Church, Dr. O.’Brien, who, in his excellent trea- 
tise on Justification by Faith (Lond. 2d ed. 1863), after a 
clear statement of the nature of Christian faith as “ trust 
I in Christ; an entire and unreserved confidence in the 


FAITH 


461 


FAITH, RULE OF 


efficacy of what Christ has done and suffered for us, 
a full reliance upon him and his work,” protests against 
the error that, “in justification, faith is accounted to 
us for righteousness because it is in itself a right prin- 
ciple, and one which naturally tends to produce obedi- 
ence to divine precepts and he shows that, “ while it 
is the fit instrument of our justification, and the seminal 
principle of holy obedience, it is, notwithstanding, the 
instrument of our justification, essentially and proper- 
ly, because it unites us to the Lord Jesus Christ, so that 
we have an interest in all that he has done and suffer- 
ed. God having, in his infinite wisdom and mercy, ap- 
pointed that we should be pardoned and accepted for the 
sufferings and for the merits of another, seems most fit- 
ly to have appointed, too, that our voluntary acceptance 
of this his mode of freely forgiving and receiving us, 
by putting our trust in him through whom these bless- 
ings are to be bestowed upon ns, should necessarily 
precede our full participation of all the benefits of this 

gracious scheme, and that nothing else should 

If for our justification it be essential, and sufficient, that 
we be united to Christ — one with Christ— found in Christ 
— does not the act whereby we take him for our de- 
fence against that wrath which we feel that we have 
earned — whereby, abjuring all self-dependence, we cast 
ourselves upon God’s free mercies in the Redeemer, 
with a full sense of our guilt and our danger, but in 
a full reliance upon the efficacy of all that he has 
wrought and endured ; does not this aet, whereby we 
cleave to him, and, as fur as in us lies, become one 
with him, seem the fit act whereunto to annex the full 
enjoyment of all those inestimable benefits which, how- 
ever dearly purchased they were by him who bought 
them, were designed to be, with respect to us upon 
whom they are bestowed, emphatically free? With 
less than this, our part in the procedure would not 
have been, what it was manifestly designed to be, in- 
telligent and voluntary ; with more, it might seem to 
be meritorious. Whereas faith unites all the advan- 
tages that we ought to look for in the instrument 
whereby we were to lay hold on the blessings thus 
freely offered to us: it makes us voluntary recipients 
of them, and yet does not seem to leave, even to the 
deceitfulness of our own deceitful hearts, the power of 
ascribing to ourselves any meritorious share in pro- 
curing them” (p. 119-121). 

The relation of faith to works, and the question of 
the apparent difference between the doctrine of Paul 
and that of James on this point, will be treated in our 
article Works. We only remark here that the Pro- 
testant theology (as lias been abundantly shown in the 
extracts already given) holds that true faith always 
manifests itself by love and good works (see A ugsburg 
Confession , Apology , c. iii) ; any other faith is mere be- 
lief, or what St. Janies calls “dead faith.” The mi- 
nor differences among Protestants as to the nature of 
faith depend chiefly upon differences as to the nature 
of justification. See Justification. 

See, besides the works already cited, Edwards, Works 
(N. Y. edit., 4 vols. Svo), i, 110 ; ii, 601 sq. ; iv, 64 sq. ; 
Waterland, IFori.-? (Oxf. 1843), vi, 23-29; Pearson, On 
the Creed , art. i ; Ward law, Systematic Theology (Edinb. 
1857, 3 vols. «Svo), ii, 728 sq. ; Martensen, Christian 
Dogmatics (Edinb. I860, 8vo), p. 37, 308 sq. ; Knapp, 
Christian Theology , § 121 sq. ; Browne, On 39 Articles 
(N. Y. 18G5), p. 30* sq. ; Burnet, On 39 Articles . art. 
xi ; Nitzsch , Christ licit e Lehre,§ 143; Monsell, Religion 
of Redemption (bond. 1867, Svo), p. 219 sq. ; Bolimer, 
Christ!. Dogmatik (Breslau, 1840), i, 4; ii, 259 sq. ; Pcr- 
rone (Rom. C.), Preeiediones Theologic.ee (ed. jMigne, 2 
vols.), ii, 1414 sq. ; Mohler (R. C.\ Symbolism (N. Y. 
1844), lik. i, eli. iii, § 15, 1G; Buchanan, On Justification 
(Edinb. 1SG7, 8vo), p. 3G4 sq. ; Hare, Victory of Faith 
(reviewed in Bibliotheca Sacra, July, 1860, art. ii); 
Lepsius, Paulin. Pech fertignugs ’eh re (l.eips. 1853, Svo), 
p. 94 sq. ; Ustcri, Paulin. Lehrbegrif (Ziir. 1824, 8vo); 
Ritsclil, Altkathol. Kirche (Leips. 1857, 8vo), p. 82 sq. ; 


| Schulz, Die Christliche Lehre v. Glaubcn (Leips. 1834, 

] Svo); Cobb, Philosophy of Faith (Nashville) ; Neander, 
Kcitholicismus u. Protestantism its (Berlin, 1863, Svo), p. 
131-14G; lias e, Protestant. Polemik (Leips. 1SG5, Svo), 
p. 242 sq. ; Baur, KathoJicismus und Protestanfismus 
(Tubingen, 18*86, Svo), p. 259-264; Elliott, Delineation 
of Romanism , book i, chap, ii ; Baur, Dogmcngesehichte 
(Leips. 1867, 3 vols. 8vo), iii, 200 sq. ; Cunningham, 
Historical Theology, chap, xxi ; Beck, Dogmengeschiihte 
(Tubingen, 1864, Svo), p. 364-369. See also Justifi- 
cation ; Sanctification. 

FAITH, ACT OF. See Auto da Fi5. 

FAITH, ARTICLES OF. Sec Articles, and 
Fundamental. 

FAITH AND WORKS. See Works. 

FAITH, CONFESSIONS OF. See Confessions 
of Faith. 

FAITH, FUNDAMENTAL ARTICLES OF. See 
Fundamental. 

FAITH, RULE OF. I. Regula Fidei. — In the early 
; Church the summary of doctrines taught to catechu- 
mens, and to which they were required to give their 
assent before baptism, was called in Greek Triune, the 
faith ; bpog Trior hoc, the limit or determination of the 
\ faith; ttcSootg Triartioc, exposition of the faith; raviov, 
rule; and in Latin, Regula fidei, rule of faith. This 
term was afterwards applied to the Apostles’ Creed. 
See Creed, Apostles’; Regula Fidf.i. 

II. F rom the ancient usage, the phrase has been 
adopted (not very aptly) in modern theology to denote 
(1) the true source of our knowledge of Christian 
truth : and (2) the criterion or standard of Christian 
doctrine. Protestants find this rule in the Scriptures 
alone; the Greek and Roman churches, and some An- 
glicans, find it not only in Scripture, but also in the 
Church, as the authorized (inspired) interpreter of 
I Scripture, whose interpretations are embodied in tra- 
dition. The supreme authority, according to the Ro- 
manists, lies in tradition, and in the pope as its living 
expounder. Some of the mystics and the Quakers 
make the “inner light” the supreme rule: thus Rob- 
; ert Barclay says that the highest source of knowledge 
— divine revelation and illumination — is something in- 
ternal, trustworthy, and self-evident, which commands 
reason to accept it hv the indwelling evidence. The 
Rationalists make reason the final arbiter, and the 
mind of man the measure of truth. 

(1.) The Prohstant Doctiine. — 1. One of the chief doc- 
trinal elements of the Reformation was the sufficiency 
of Scripture for faith and salvation. Wicklifle, indeed, 
anticipated the Reformation in asserting the authority 
of Scripture. “When we truly l elieve in Christ,” 
he says, “the authority of Holy Writ is greater for us 
than that of any other writing.” He makes the ac- 
knowledgment of the divine word to spring from the 
immediate relation of the soul to Christ, while Rome 
puts the Church between the soul and Christ. Luther 
also rejected all mediation between the soul and Christ. 
“Yet, before he had consciously developed the princi- 
ple that the holy Scriptures must be the highest source 
of knowledge, his doctrine had already been formed 
upon it, and unconsciously he was guided by the prin- 
ciple to admit nothing which was at variance with the 
Scriptures. Controversy first brought him to carry 
out this principle with scientific clearness.” It was, 
however, first “scientifically stated by Melancthon 
on the occasion of the Leipsig disputation, iu which 
Eck attacked a statement made by that reformer in 
one of his letters, which thus acquired n< toricty. He 
says that it is a duty to abide by the pure and simple 
meaning of Holy Writ, as, indeed, heavenly truths 
are always the simplest; this meaning is to he found 
by comparing IIolv Writ with itself. On this account 
we study Holy Writ, in order to pass judgment on all 
human opinions by it as a universal touchstone” (Cont. 
Eckium Defcnsio , Melanctbonii Opera , ed. Bretscbnci- 


FAITH, RULE OF 


462 


FAITH, RULE OF 


(ler, i, 113, cited by Neander, History of Dogmas, [Ry- 
land], p. G23). Both tradition and the apocryphal 
books were rejected by the Reformers. While the 
material principle of Protestantism is justification by 
faith, its formal principle ( prineijnum cognoscendi , 
knowledge-principle, or principle of cognition) is that 
the word of God, given in the canonical books of the 
Old and New Testaments, “is the pure and proper 
source, as well as the only certain measure of all saving 
truth” (Sckaff, Principle of Protestan'ism, Ckambers- 
burg, 1845, p. 70k 

2. The chief Protestant Confessions agree as to the 
rule of faith. The Augsburg Confession repudiates the 
traditions of the Church of Rome as to penances, fasts, 
etc. (art. xv), discrimina ciborum, etc. (part ii, art. 
v) ; and see especially Apologia Confess, cap. viii, p. 
20(5; I) trad'd ionibus humanis in Ecclesia; and Prof, 
ad Conf August, p. G, “ We oiler our confession . . . 
drawn from the sacred Scriptures and the pure word 
of God.” The Formula Concordke , Epit. i, 1, is more 
definite : “ Credimus, confitemur et docenms unicam 
reguhim et normam, secundum quam omnia dogmata, 
omnesque doctores restimari et judicari oporteat, nul- 
lam omnino aliam esse quam prophetica et apostolica 
scripta cum veteris turn novi Testamenti, sient scrip- 
turn est Psa. cxix, 105; Gal. i, 8.” “ Reliqua vero 
sive patrum sive neotericorum scripta, quocunque ve- 
niant nomine, sacris literis nequaquam sunt a?quipa- 
randa, sed universa illis ita suhjicienda sunt, ut alia 
ratione non recipiantur, nisi testium loco, qui doccant, 
quod etiam post apostolorum tempora etin quibus par- 
tibus or bis doctrina ilia prophetarnm et apostolorum 
sincerior conservata sit.” “Crctera autem symbola et 
alia scripta, quorum paullo ante mentionem fecimus, 
non obtinent auetoritatem judicis; ha?c etiam dignitas 
solis sacris literis debetur, sed dmntaxat pro religione 
nostra testimonium dicunt, etc.” (We believe, confess, 
and teach that the one rule and criterion by which all 
doctrines and teaching are to be tested is Scripture 
... all other writings, whether ancient or modern; 
all symbols, creeds, etc., arc of use [not as of equal au- 
thority, hut only] as witnesses of the preservation of 
the revealed doctrines, and testimonies for our relig- 
ion, etc.). Conf. Gall. art. v: “It is not lawful to op- 
pose either antiquity, custom, multitude, man’s wis- 
dom and judgment, or edicts, or any decrees, or coun- 
cils, or visions, or miracles, unto this holy Scripture, 
but rather that all things ought to be examined and 
tried by the rule and square thereof. Wherefore we 
do for this cause also allow those three creeds, namely, 
the Apostles’, the Nieene, and Athanasian Creeds, be- 
cause the} r be agreeable to the written word of God.” 
Conf. Ilelret. ii, 1: “In controversies of religion on 
matters of faith, we cannot admit any other judge than 
God himself, pronouncing by the holy Scripture what 
is true, what is false, what is to be followed, or what to 
lie avoided. So we do not rest but in the judgment of 
spiritual men drawn from the Word of God.” Conf. 
Jielgic. art. vii : “ We believe also that the holy Scrip- 
ture doth most perfectly contain all the will of God, 
and th it in it all things are abundantly taught what- 
soever is necessary to be believed of man to attain sal- 
vation.” Westminster Confession, art. i: “ The whole 
counsel of God, concerning all things necessary for his 
own glory, man’s salvation, faith, and life, is either 
expressly set down in Scripture, or by good and nec- 
essary consequence may be deduced from Scripture ; 
unto which nothing at any time is to he added, wheth- 
er by new revelations of the Spirit or traditions of 
men. Nevertheless, we acknowledge the inward illu- 
mination of the Spirit of God to be necessary for the 
saving understanding of such things as are revealed 
in the word,” etc. “All things in Scripture are not 
alik ' plain in themselves, nor alike clear unto all ; yet 
those things which are necessary to be known, be- 
lieve.!, and observed for salvation are so clearly pro- 
pounded and opened in some place of Scripture or 


I other, that not only the learned, but the unlearned, in 
a due use of the ordinary means, may attain unto a 
sufficient understanding of them.” Church of Eng - 
' land , art. vi (vth of the Methodist Episcopal Church); 
“ TIolv Scripture containeth all things necessary to 
salvation ; so that whatsoever is not read therein, nor 
may be proved thereby, is not to be required of any 
man that it should be believed as an article of faith.” 
So the Creeds (art. viii) are commended to reception 
and belief only because they may be proved by cer- 
tain “warrants of holy Scripture;” works of super- 
erogation (xiv) are rejected as contradicted by the 
word of Christ ; things ordained even by general coun- 
cils are affirmed (xxi) to have neither strength nor 
authority unless it be declared that they “be taken 
out of holy Scripture purgatory, pardons, image 
worship, relics, saintly invocation (xxii), and trail- 
substantiation (xxviii) are rejected as grounded “upon 
no warrant of Scripture, but rather repugnant to the 
Word of God.” 

(II.) The Romanist Doctrine. — The Council of Trent 
(sess. iv, April 8, 1516, On the Canon ) declares that 
the “Gospel promised before by the prophets in the 
sacred Scriptures was first orally published by our 
Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who afterwards 
commanded it to be preached by his apostles to every 
creature, as the source of all saving truth and disci- 
pline ; and that this truth and discipline are contained 
both in written books and in unwritten traditions, 
which have come down to us, either received by the 
apostles from the lip of Christ himself, or transmitted 
by the hands of the same apostles, under the dictation 
of the Holy Spirit;” and names as canonical all the 
books of the O. T. and the Apocrypha, according to the 
Vulgite edifion ; declaring that the Council “ doth re- 
ceive and reverence, with equal piety and veneration, 
j all the books, as well of the Old as of the New Testa- 
ment, the same God being the author of both — and also 
the aforesaid traditions, pertaining both to faith and 
manners, whether received from Christ himself or dic- 
tated by the Holy Spirit, and preserved in the Catholic 
Church by continual succession.” The Catechism of 
the Council of Trent declares {Preface) that “all the 
doctrines of Christianity in which the faithful are to 
i be instructed are derived from the Word of God, which 
1 includes Scriptures and tradition.” These statements 
are not so decided as those of later Roman theologi- 
ans, but they were nevertheless received at the time 
as ordaining a new rule of faith in the Church. Ber- 
nard Gilpin (f 1583) had, it is said, been hesitating 
about accepting Protestantism, but the publication of 
the decree of Trent decided him ; “ While be was dis- 
tracted with these things, the rule of faith changed by 
the Council of Trent astonished him. For be observed 
that not only the ancient divines, but even the modern 
ones, Lombard, Scotus, and Aquinas, all confessed that 
the rule of faith was solely to be drawn from Scrip- 
ture, whereas he found, according to the Council of 
Trent, that it might as well be drawn from human tra- 
ditions The Clmrcb of Rome kept the rule of 

faith entire till it was changed by the Council of Trent. 
From that time he thought it a point of duty to forsake 
her communion, that the true Church, thus called out, 
might follow the Word of God” ( Life of Bernard Gil- 
pin , p. G3, Glasgow, 1824, cited by Cramp, Text-book 
of Popery , ch. iii). Bellarmine (f 1621), perhaps the 
greatest of Roman theologians, sets forth the Roman 
theory more fully in Ills treatise De Verbo Dei. lie di- 
vides it into the written and the unwritten word. The 
written word includes the Scriptures of the O. and N. 
T. ; the unwritten is tradition, i. e. 1. divine tradition, 
including doctrines communicated by Christ himself to 
the apostles, and taught by them, but not recorded ; 2. 
apostolical tradition, doctrines taught by the apostles, 
but not recorded in their writings; 3. ecclesiastical 
tradition, including ancient customs and usages hand- 
, cd down in the Church. The necessity for these tra* 


FAITH, RULE OF 463 FAITH, RULE OF 


ditions he maintains on the express ground of the | 
insufficiency of Scripture as a rule of faith and life 
(asserimus in Scripturis non contineri expresse totam 
doctrinam necessarium sive de fide sive de moribus, 
De Verbo Dei y iv, 3). The substance of these passages 
is, that in the rule of faith tradition is an authority 
independent of Scripture, and in all respects equal to 
it in binding force. Mohler ( Symbolism , § 38) attempts 
to reline the Koman doctrine, but, in fact, disguises it 
under an ideal theory of his own, intended to be adapt- 
ed to “the spirit of the age,” or else inspired by it. 
But the substance of the Koman doctrine remains, in 
spite of his skill, in his statement that “it is the 
Church in which alone man arrives at the true under- 
standing of Holy Writ.” One of the latest and most 
skilful advocates of the Roman view is archbishop 
Manning, who, in his Grounds of Faith (London, 1852, 
8vo), maintains that “universal tradition is the su- 
preme interpreter of Scripture,” and that this tradition 
is maintained only in the Church of Rome, of which 
the pope is the head and exponent. Dr. Schaff sums 
up the vices of the Romanist theory of the rule of faith 
as follows: “The distinction between the divine and 
the human is unsettled by it. This pantheistic feat- 
ure runs through the whole system, culminating in 
the respect shown towards the pope as lawfully hold- 
ing and exercising the threefold office of Christ him- 
self. Too much is allowed, again, to human agency in 
the formation of the sacred Scriptures, by limiting the 
inspiration of the Holy Ghost to mere assistance and 
guidance (assistentia et directio). Still farther, the Lat- 
in translation of Jerome, a work of course proceeding 
from a particular Church position, and reflecting its 
image, is not only placed on a par with the original 
text, but in actual use preferred to it altogether (Bel- 
larmine,Z)e Verbo Dei , ii, 10). In the fourth place, the 
charge of darkness and ambiguity is brought against 
the Scriptures, whence tradition is held to be necessary 
for their interpretation, and it is counselled that the 
laity should not read them except in cases of special 
qualilication, of which the bishop is to be the judge. 
In short, the whole tendency of the Roman Catholic 
Church has for its object to subordinate the Bible to 
tradition, and then to make itself the infallible judge 
of truth, with power to determine at pleasure what is 
God’s word and the doctrine of the Church, and to 
anathematize everything that may go beyond its past 
decisions, even though, as in the case of the Reforma- 
tion and Jansenism, it should be an actual deepening 
of the Christian consciousness itself’’ (. Principle of 
Protestantism , p. 74). 

(III.) The new Anglican Doctrine. — The so-called 
Tractarian party in the Church of England adopted, 
almost at its lirst beginning in Oxford, in substance, 
the Romanist theory of the rule of faith ; so, e. g. 
“ Tracts for the Times ” (No. 70): “Catholic tradition 
teaches revealed truth, Scripture proves it : Scripture 
is the document of faith, tradition the witness of it : 
Scripture and tradition, taken together, are the joint 
rule of faith.” The truth v r as, that the men compris- 
■ ing this new party had already embraced several of 
the Romanist doctrines, and, not finding any warrant 
for them in Scripture, sought it in tradition. Thus 
Iveble (Sermon on Tradition ) asserts that without tra- 
dition it would be impossible to demonstrate the doc- 
trine of the “real presence,” that of the “ el erg}' as 
a distinct order,” and that “consecration by apostol- 
ical authority is essential to the Eucharist” (see fur- 
ther in Goode, Divine Rule of Faith and Practice , ii, 
18 sq.). Some of these writers soon began to deerv 
Protestantism as a failure, and the Reformation as a 
schism ; and the next step was to assert that the Scrip- 
tures are both defective and obscure, and that many 
doctrines necessary to faith are not in Scripture at all, 
but must be learned from tradition, which is “partly 
the interpretation and partly the supplement of Scrip- 
ture” (see an able article in the Princeton Rev. 1842, p. 


I 598 sq.). Dr. Arnold remarks ( Edinb . Rev. April, 1843), 
that, according to the Tractarian theory, “the Scrip- 
tures are not the sole or a perfect rule of faith; the} 7 are 
i to be supplemented by tradition; they furnish at best 
but the germ of an imperfectly developed Chii-tiani- 
ty, which is to be found full blown and perfect some- 
where (no one can tell where) in the third, or fourth, 
or fifth, or sixth century, or some century still later; 
and the fathers have much to tell us of undoubted 
apostolical authority, which the apostles themselves 
have failed to tell. Infinite are the disputes which 
such a theory instantly gives rise to. In essence and 
principle it in nowise differs from that of Rome (for it 
affirms both a written and an unicritten word) ; it dif- 
fers only in the pleasant and gratuitously perplexing 
addition that it is impossible to assign the period with- 
in which the circle of Catholic verities may be sup- 
posed complete — the period when the slowly developed 
Church system became ripe, but had not yet become 
rotten. The unity of faith which is thus sought is far- 
ther off than ever, for the materials of discord are en- 
larged a thousand fold. 1. There is the dispute as to 
whether there be any such authoritative lule of faith 
at all, and this alone promises to be an endless contro- 
versy. 2. Even if we were to admit the possible ex- 
istence of such a rule, the uncertainty in its applica- 
tion would preclude the possibility of its being of any 
use. 3. Even if men in general are told that they need 
not inquire for themselves, but just receive what their 
‘authorized guides’ choose to tell them, private judg- 
ment is still pressed with insuperable difficulties; for, 
alas! we find that the ‘authorized guides’ themselves, 
in the exercise of their private judgment, have arrived 
at very different conclusions as to what is Catholic 
verity and what is not. It is very easy for Mr. New- 
man to talk in magniloquent phrase of that much 
abused abstraction, the ‘Church,’ and to represent his 
system of ‘ Church principles’ as one and complete in 
every age. But when we inquire which is that Church, 
what are. the doctrines it has delivered as the complete 
circle of verity, and who are its infallible interpreters, 
we find those whom these authorized guides proclaim 
equally authorized at endless variance- — Romanists, 
Greeks, and Anglicans differing in judgment from 
each other and from themselves. In a word, we find 
the ‘Church’ is just Mr. Newman or Dr. Pusey — not 
unbecomingly disguised in the habiliments of a some- 
what antiquated lady, and uttering their ‘private judg- 
ments’ as veritable oracles. AYhat can one of these 
‘guides’ say to ‘a brother guide’ who declares, ‘I 
adopt } 7 our principles, and it appears to me and many 
others that, on the same grounds on which you con- 
tend for the apostolical succession— that is, on the au- 
thority of the ancient Church — I must contend for the 
celibacy of the clergy ?’ Or to another, who declares, 
‘ On our common principles I think there is good rea- 
son to admit the invocation of saints, the worship of 
images, the doctrine of the efficacy of holy relics, the 
monastic institute, to be of apostolical origin ?’ Or to 
another, ‘ It appears to me that the doctrine of purga- 
tory is but a development of the doctrine which justifies 
prayers for the dead ?’ ” Dr. Arnold was right in his 
view of the tendency of the Tractarian doctrine : J. 
H. Newman and many others went logically to Rome, 
while Dr. Pusey illogically remained in the Church of 
England to corrupt it. And now, 1869, the Romaniz- 
ing party in that Church bids defiance to both “Pro- 
testant tradition” and the state law. 

III. It is one of the charges brought by Romanists 
against Protestantism that it has violently separated 
itself from the liisto ical life of Christianity by its de- 
nial of tradition. But the charge is unfounded. Pro- 
testantism is the continuation of the true life of Chris- 
tianity, reformed from the errors of Rome, among 
which errors was the exaltation of tradition to a level 
with Scripture as an authority. No such view of tra- 
dition can be found either in Scripture or in the early 


FAITH, RULE OF 


464 


FAITH AND REASON 


Church writers. According to the Protestant view, 
the Greek and Roman doctrine of the rule of faith 
takes away Christ, and puts an ecclesiastical corpora- 
tion in his place. Put Protestantism does not deny 
the value of tradition in transmitting Christian doc- 
trine : its value is inestimable. l?ut it is not author- 
itative or final ; it is a servant, not a master. In fact, 
the question of the rule of faith is closely connected 
with that of the true idea of the Church, or, indeed, 
identical with it in the last analysis. So, at the fourth 
session of the Council of Trent, when the question of 
Scripture and tradition came up for discussion, Vin- 
cent Lunel. one of the members of the council, a Fran- 
ciscan, “thought it would he preferable to treat of the 
Church in the first instance, because Scripture derived 
its authority from the Church. He added that if it 
were once established that all Christians are bound to 
obey the Church, everything else would be easy, and 
that this was the only argument that would refute the 
heretics.” While Protestantism leads to Christ through 
the Scriptures, and through Christ to the Church, 
Rome pretends to lead through the Church to Christ 
and the Scriptures; the authority of the Protestant 
doctrine being its conformity with revealed truth, that 
of the Roman Catholic system the assumed infallibility 
of the Church. In causis spiritualibus necessurio cid- 
mittend'is a’iguis supremus jud x conir over sta rum (in 
spiritual things there must needs be some final and su- 
preme judge to decide controverted questions) is the 
old postulate of those who contend for a visible Church 
endowed with God’s own infallibility. Grant them 
their postulate, in their own sense of it, and the whole 
theory of “ Church principles,” as the modern success- 
ors of Hildebrand complacently name their dogmas, 
will inevitably follow. On the other hand, let it be 
settled that the Scriptures, and the Scriptures alone, 
constitute the true rule of Christian faith and prac- 
tice, and we shall have done forever with the juggling 
priestcraft which has so long disgraced Christianity, 
and which finds its only hope of support in ecclesiasti- 
cal tradition. The question is a vital one. It is not 
a mere matter of detail, about which men can differ at 
pleasure ; it is the Rubicon which separates Protest- 
antism from Popery. It involves “a choice between 
the Gospel of Christ as declared by himself and his 
apostles, and that deadly apostasy which Paul in his 
lifetime saw threatening — nay, the effects of which, 
during his captivity, had nearly supplanted his own 
gospel in the Asiatic churches, and which he declares 
would come speedily with a fearful power of lying 
wonders” (Stanley, Life of Arnohl , ii, 110). The 
Church of God, according to the Protestant, is built 
upon the “foundation of the prophets and the apostles, 
Christ himself being the chief corner-stone;” accord- 
ing to the traditionist, upon the sands of antiquity as 
well. From the beginning men have made the word 
of God of none effect through their traditions. See 
Bible, Use of; Fathers; Infallibility; Protes- 
tantism; Romanism; and especially Tradition. 

Literature. — Resides the authors already named in 
the course of this article, see Wilier, Comp. Darstellung , 
180(1, p. 27 ; Nitzscli, System <1. ehristl. Lthre, § 3(1-39 ; 
Daille, Right Use of the Fathers (Philada. 1812, 12mo) ; 
Elliott, I) lineation of Romanism, l>k. i, chap, i and iii; 
Jeremy Taylor, Dissuasive from Popery (1 Ichor’s ed.), 
n, 38.5 sq. ; Chemnitz, F rumen ConcUii Tvulentini; 
Chillingwortli, Religion of Protestants (Philadel. 1838\ 
8vo; Marsh, Comparative Vieiv of the Churches of Eng- 
land and Rome (Cambridge, 1814, 8vo) ; Stillingfleet, 
Prates* ant Crounds of Faith ( IVor/v?, Rond. 1709, vols. 
iv, v, and vi); Knapp, Christian Theol. § vii ; Goode, 
Divine Ru 7 e of Faith and Practice (2d ed. Rond. 1853, 
3 vols. Kvo) ; Peek, App n al from Tradition to Scripture 
(New York, 1844, 12mo, reviewed by M ‘Clintock-in the 
Biblical Repository, Jan. 1840, art. 2); Edinb. Review, 
April, 1 S43 ; kigiitfoot, 1 Vorks, vi, 51; Bosenmiiller, 
Dc Orig. Theolog. cap. xi, § 35; Holden, Authority of 


Tradition (Phil. 1841) ; Hawkins, Dissert, on Tradition 
(Oxf. 1819, 8vo) ; Burnet, On 39 Articles ; Browne, On 
39 Articles ; Forbes, On 39 Articles (each on art. vi). 

FAITH AND REASON. Religion and science 
express in the abstract and in the concrete the two op- 
posite poles of human knowledge, between which there 
must always bs discrepance, and has usually been dis- 
cord. In all ages in which there has been any nota- 
ble activity of intelligence there has been a contro- 
versy, more or less violent, between the claims of 
religious authority and the pretensions of human rea- 
son. The acrimony of the strife has been increased, 
and the importance of appeasing it lias been augment- 
ed by every extension of the domain of precise, cohe- 
rent, systematic reasoning. Every creed accepted by 
a cultivated and speculative community has been in 
turn assailed by a spirit of speculative scrutiny, -which 
has gradually encroached upon the sacred domain, 
and has ultimately denied all validity to doctrines not 
established by the processes of ratiocination, or discov- 
ered and confirmed by direct observation and experi- 
ment. The primeval theology of the Hindoos, the 
capricious and graceful fantasies of the Greek mythol- 
ogy, the stern solemnity of the Roman Fasti, the arbi- 
trary credulities of Islam ism, have all experienced 
this phase of hostility, as well as Christianity, in the 
various periods and forms of its dissemination. But 
never has this war been more deadly in mode or in 
: menace than in this current age, when the foundations 
of revealed truth are undermined by insidious ap- 
proaches, and when science erects its multitudinous 
batteries against all the ramparts of the Christian faith. 

In other times, attempts, more or less unsuccessful, 
have been made to restore natural amity between 
I these embittered adversaries. The Euhcmcrism of 
the Greeks was an effort to explain the legendary su- 
perstitions of Greece so as to render them acceptable 
to the enlightened doubts of Hellenic philosophy. See 
Euiiemerus. A second and more elaborate plan for 
the maintenance of the expiring reverence for the di- 
vinities of the pagan world was hazarded by the Nco- 
IMatonists. See Neo-Platonism. Both experiments 
signally failed. In a much later period, with wholly 
| dissimilar weapons, and with much vaster interests at 
j stake, the illustrious Reibnitz undertook to reconcile 
religion and reason in a treatise equally remarkable 
for the classical elegance of its style, and for the vigor 
and profundity of its argumentation. It was negative 
in its character, and only offered a compromise. Such 
was also the complexion of the admirable work of 
bishop Butler on the Analogy of Natural and Revealed 
Religion. In consequence, these luminous essays only 
interpose As landmarks in the midst of the -waves be- 
tween the hardy scepticism of the beginning and the 
revolutionary atheism of the close of the 18th century. 
The war lias become more determined, even though it 
may have gradually lost much of its earlier bitterness. 
Extremists on both sides now declare that there is an 
implacable antagonism between faith and science. 
Ministers of religion may be found denouncing the 
| procedures and conclusions of science as “enmity with 
God,” and as incompatible with revealed truth; as if 
the laws of the creation could he at variance with the 
declarations of the Creator. Adepts in scicntilic re- 
search, on the other hand, proclaim the dcceptiveuess 
1 and inanity of all religious doctrine as contradictory 
to the clearly ascertained processes of the universe ; 

| as if the phenomena of matter could controvert the 
constitution of the human mind, and the ineradicable 
instincts, appetencies, and requirements of the human 
heart. 

Yet, even in this apparently hopeless state of dis- 
cord, renewed endeavors have been made to bring the 
great adversaries into harmonious union. The most 
recent and the most notable of these is that of Herbert 
I Spencer, which is plausible in its pretensions, hut most 
! delusive in its results. It is singularly insidious in 


FAITH AND REASON 


465 


FAITH AND REASON 


design and in execution. It betrays with a kiss, and 
deals a mortal stab while inquiring, “Ilow is it with 
thee, mv brother?” It recognises the universality, 
the indestructibility, the necessity of religious belief, 
admits the impossibility of ignoring or dispelling the 
attributes of a Supreme Being, and yet attenuates ev- 
erything thus admitted till it sublimates these con- 
ceptions into a vaporous phenomenalism, a misty hal- 
lucination of the human mind under the perennial hy- 
pochondria of a morbid fantasy. No suspension of 
anus has been obtained, because each party hopes for 
a decisive victory. But the prolongation and exacer- 
bation of this strife are most disastrous, not merely to 
the legitimate authority of religion, but to the equalty 
legitimate demands of science. One portion of the 
Christian community is repelled from the prompt ac- 
ceptance and the zealous encouragement of the discov- 
eries of science by the apprehension that the bulwarks 
of revealed religion may be surrendered to an unspar- 
ing foe. Another portion rejects the teachings of the 
Church and of the Christian creed from disgust at an 
unreasoning and unreasonable opposition to science. 
A third party, intermediate between the two,, extends 
a hand to both ; surrenders whatever rationalism ques- 
tions, and professes to retain in a changed sense all 
that is essential in the dogmas of religion. Mean- 
while, those of vicious inclinations find an excuse for 
the indulgence of their passions and the rejection of 
moral restraints in an intelligent repudiation or in a 
doubtful acknowledgment of religion; while the mul- 
titude, careless and stolid, pursues its private ambi- 
tions or personal whims without regard to the obliga- 
tions of this life, without concern for that great here- 
after which occupies no place in its thoughts. The 
conciliation of faith and science thus becomes more ur- 
gent than in any former time, and its urgency is in- 
creased by the difficulty of accomplishing it in the 
midst of contentions between reciprocally rcpcllant 
combatants, armed on the one side with the thunders of 
the Almighty, the promises of heaven, and the terrors 
of hell, and on the other with the dazzling panoply 
of modern investigation, and with weapons wreathed 
with the laurels of a century of scientific achievements. 

The re-establishment of fraternal union between two 
so widely alienated disputants must be an arduous and 
always a somewhat doubtful task. “ Quis concordabit 
tantam contrcirktaiemV ’ A mere truce will answer 
no good purpose. It would simply convert a running 
sore into a purulent condition of the whole system. 
The conciliation, to be efficient, must rest on an essen- 
tial harmony of principles, on a recognised dissimilar- 
ity of aims and applications. Even then the agree- 
ment may be liable to occasional rupture from recipro- 
cal jealousies ; but room must be allowed for partial 
dissent, as in these high questions no more can be ex- 
pected than an unsteady conquiescence — discordia con- 
cors. Whether even this agreement is attainable must 
be uncertain till it has been attained; it may be re- 
served for that blessed expansion of our discernment 
when we shall no longer “see as through a glass dark- 
ly.” But, in the mean time, there is a high obligation 
resting upon those 'who would repudiate neither the 
sanctifying influences of a holv life, nor the illumina- 
tion of secular learning, to seek out the grounds of 
reconciliation, and to renew the marriage of the liber- 
al arts with theology. This seems to be the appropri- 
ate duty and the peculiar aspiration of the present 
age, and the imperfect or delusive efforts made in this 
direction indicate the latent consciousness that it is so. 
The instinctive tiisus , often grievously misdirected, al- 
ways precedes the solution of the great enigmas of hu- 
manity. Before any reasonable hope, however, of a 
satisfactory result can be entertained, it is necessary 
io ascertain the conditions of the problem, and to dis- 
cover among the obvious and multitudinous discrepan- 
ces whether there is any essential identity between 
the opposing forces. If there is, there may be a pros- 
III. — G a 


pect of final accordance ; if there is not, the antipathies 
are ineradicable and immedicable. 

The conditions under which the question presents 
itself are thus, the determination of the nature of the 
contending parties ; the detection of any agreement in 
their intrinsic character ; and the discernment of the 
causes of their opposition and diverse procedure. It 
becomes expedient, therefore, to ascertain the peculiar 
character and functions of faith and science respect- 
ively. This cannot be accomplished by any mode of 
mere logical division and definition, because faith' re- 
sides in our spiritual susceptibilities, and is incapable 
of verbal circumscription ; and because science admits 
of no immutable boundaries, but “grows forever and 
forever.” But the character of each may be sufficient- 
ly described to permit the contradistinction of the two, 
to exhibit their contrasts, and to disclose any harmony 
that may exist between them. 

Science is precise, definite, systematic knowledge, 
attained and co-ordinated by the application of human 
reasoning tc admitted facts or observed phenomena. 
The conclusions of science are reached and are con- 
nected together by the discovery of the general prin- 
ciples which regulate the occurrence of the phenomena 
and reveal the conditions of their occurrence. These 
principles are established by the employment of the 
two processes of deduction and induction ; and science 
is the determination by the arts of reasoning of such 
knowledge as is apprehensible by the logical faculties 
of the human mind. The conclusions attained are 
more or less firmly believed according to the sufficien- 
cy or insufficiency of the reasoning; but, when firmly 
established, are believed on the strength of the evi- 
dence, and cannot be doubted except by remembering 
the finite power and comprehension, and consequent 
fallibility of the reasoning mind itself. This limita- 
tion, though properly — nay, inevitably overlooked ill 
the constitution and acceptance of scientific truth, can- 
not be safely disregarded in the estimation of the va- 
lidity and certainty of scientific procedure. 

Faith is something more than rational belief — some- 
thing more firm and assured than scientific or phil- 
osophic conviction. Conviction is produced by the 
strength of the arguments adduced — by the influence 
of the demonstration or other evidence on the under- 
standing. Faith goes far beyond this, both in the as- 
surance conveyed, and in the disproportion between 
the testimony and what is accepted on that testimony. 
“Seeing is believing,” but he who “walks by faith” 
“walks not by sight.” We believe in the results of 
science ; we have faith in the truths of revelation. We 
believe that the earth is round; we have faith in the 
existence of God, and in the immortality of the soul. 
Conviction questions and scrutinizes; faith confides, 
and does not cavil. The belief which is founded upon 
reasoning ponders the arguments propounded, the ev- 
idence presented; faith is itself “the substance of 
things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.” 
This distinction may not be acceptable to persons of 
loose habits of thought, who employ words without dis- 
criminating their delicate shades of meaning; but it 
seems to He required by more than one passage of the 
New Testament, and is fully sustained by the most 
acute, profound, and sagacious of the schoolmen, Thom- 
as Aquinas (Summa Theologies ,2, a, qu. ii, art. x; qu. 
iv, art. i). It is of the essence of faith to transcend 
the logical evidence, to accept more than is contained 
in any logical premises, and to hold the tenet thus re- 
tained with a more earnest tenacity than any demon- 
stration or generalization can produce. Not that faith 
is independent of evidence or testimony ; but the co- 
gency of such proof is not intrinsic or indisputable in 
itself, but is derived from its acceptance, and from the 
submissive adherence of the recipient. It is “the Spir- 
it of truth” which “will guide you into all truth.” 
This exposition may seem applicable only to religious 
faith, or to faith in supernatural truth ; but it is with 


FAITII AND REASON 


460 


FAITH AND REASON 


faith of this kind that the controversy on the part of 
science is maintained. It is therefore in this domain 
that the essence of faith is to be specially considered. 
Nevertheless, a little reflection and examination will 
show that all faith possesses the same general charac- 
teristics. The faith which we repose in another simi- 
larly transcends, and usually precedes the evidence: 
the faith which we hold in regard to the regular order 
of nature is manifested without thought of the argu- 
ments by which that order is proved ; the faith which 
we entertain in the necessity and generally beneficent 
action of government is wholly irrespective of our 
opinions in relation to its particular measures. See 
Faitii. 

Thus widely contrasted, then, are the characteristics 
of faith and science. The former is out of all propor- 
tion to the proof addressed to the reasoning faculties; 
t lie other is strictly limited by the proof. The one is 
an adhesion of our whole spiritual nature, undoubting, 
and unvisited by any anxious concern; the other is 
simply the acquiescence of the understanding, which 
may be dispelled by further discoveries. The one may 
be resisted, the other cannot be denied ; the one is of 
voluntary acceptance, the other of compulsory belief. 
The being of God may be denied; the validity of a 
demonstration of Euclid cannot be gainsaid, if the terms 
and the logical process are apprehended. 

But, though these things be thus disparate in their 
ordinary and in their ultimate manifestations, they are 
identical in their foundations and in their point of de- 
parture. It has been stated already that scientific rea- 
soning proceeds by way of deduction or of induction. 
Deduction, however, proceeds from premises which are 
either established by induction, or are received with- 
out demonstration ; and induction requires general 
principles, not reached by induction, to render induc- 
tion possible. First principles admit of neither defini- 
tion nor proof. The conception of order, the admis- 
sion of the uniformity of natural laws, are not induc- 
tions. Supposing, however, that those things which 
are confirmed by science, and receive their expansion 
and development from science, are reached by scien- 
tific reasoning, still the conceptions of mind, matter, 
and similar primordial phenomena with which science 
deals are intuitive, and are accepted by an unreason- 
ing, though rational faith. The} r are only perplexed 
and weakened by argumentation on the subject. The 
contrasted conceptions of mind and matter are uni- 
versally recognised as contrasted, even bv those who 
deny the reality of mutter, and represent it as a mere 
image or phantasm of the mind; and by those who 
deny the distinct character of mind, and profess to re- 
gard it as nothing more than a modification or efflores- 
cence of matter. The distinction is admitted, although 
the distinctness of essence or of substance be denied. 
So pressing is the intuitive consciousness of the con- 
trast that recent votaries of science, who would cashier 
the whole realm of faith, are compelled by an unavow- 
od and unsuspected instinct to disembody and to evap- 
orate, as well as despiritualize, the whole universe, 
which they pretend to explain by ascribing a purely 
apparent existence to facts and to the evolution of 
facts — a merely phenomenal validity to demonstrated 
changes and the laws of change. They make shad- 
ows chase shadows in a spectral world for the enter- 
tainment of shadowy observers. In this manner they 
convert the material and the intelligible universe into 
an impalpable phantasmagoria: they render it a re- 
flection upon the clouds, a giant of the Brocken, an in- 
tricate dance of fantastic unrealities. But the ghosts 
which they evoke from the dissipated forms of being 
are as intractable and as hostile as the spirits and bod- 
ies which they have attempted to annihilate. Faith, 
the same in kind, though greater in degree, is required 
for the admission of such idoh of mind and matter, 
and nothing is gained for their own purposes by em- 
bracing the cloud instead of the goddess. 


I The true doctrine with respect to the foundations 
* of scientific procedure is laid down by Aristotle in the 
close of the Posterior Analytics. “It is evident,” 

I says he, “that, as demonstration is not the beginning 
of demonstration, so neither is science the first princi- 
ple of science.” Nearly six centuries later, I’roelus 
; similarly declares in his Theological Institutes that 
“intuition is the principle and first cause of knowl- 
edge.” After the lapse of more than twelve hundred 
years, the Sage of Venilam reasserted the same posi- 
tion in a somewhat ditferent form in The Fable of Cu- 
pid, and again in the Novum Organon (1 Aph. Ixvi). 
Tims the founder of science, the most extreme of 
Transcendental ists, and the restorer of inductive phi- 
losophy, concur in recognising that science is not self- 
sustaining, but is dependent upon principles beyond 
the sphere of science. Their declarations, too, are no 
isolated testimonies, but are merely echoes of the eon- 
| victions of philosophers of the most divergent schools 
(Plato, Timans , ch. i ; Aristotle, Mtt. iii, 4; x, 5, G; 
Theophrastus, Met. v; Alex. Aphrodisiensis, Scliol . in 
Aristot. ed. Brandis, p. 525, 527, 592, 605, 653; Asdepi- 
ades, Ibid. p. 599; Ammonius, Ibid. p. 519; Des Car- 
i tes, Med. ii ; Spinoza, De la R forme de V Entendement, 
(Eui-res, ii. 281, ed. Saisset. ; Leibnitz, Opera , i, p. cxliv, 
elxi, ed. Dutens). A remarkable testimony to the 
same effect was recently (Aug. 1868) given bj^ Prof. 
Tyndall in bis introductory address before the Mathe- 
matical Section of the British Association. 

Tt is not simply a metaphysical axiom, but an obvi- 
ous truism, that there can be neither definition nor 
demonstration of first principles — of those fundamen- 
tal and primary facts upon which not merely all 
knowledge, but all possibility of knowledge depends. 
Life is consciousness, not a conclusion of the reason. 
Personal identity admits neither proof nor denial. 
Mind escapes from the formulas of scientific knowl- 
edge ; matter cannot be seized or established by them. 
The theory of Boseovieh may he invalid, but it cannot 
be disproved. Thus the very foundations of scien- 
tific knowledge rest upon faith, and upon faith only — 
upon faith in primitive facts — faith in the testimony 
of the senses — faith in our intellectual apprehensions. 
Accordingly, the faith which is supposed to make un- 
reasonable demands in requiring the acceptance of 
theological truths is equally, though not in an equal 
degree, required for scientific speculation. Science 
cannot commence its speculations without humbly re- ' 
eeiving dogmas communicated and held by faith; it 
cannot advance a single step without implicit acqui- 
escence in their truth, and without their necessary, 
though latent support. On all sides we are encom- 
passed by mystery. Ileligion and science thus spring 
from a common root. They address themselves in the 
first instance to a common characteristic of the intel- 
ligence. In both, faith must precede knowledge; and 
in either, tire celebrated maxim of St. Augustine finds 
its application : “ Credo , ut intelligam .” They are twin 
sisters, sustained by a common life, nourished by a 
common sustenance, illumined by the radiance pro- 
ceeding from a common fountain of light. Both re- 
quire to Oltov bppa rd 6 hi a 7rpQ\dp[3avov ; and 

both may turn to the Father of Lights and exclaim, 

“ Angelorum esca nntrivisti ppulum tuum , et para turn 
pattern de ealo preestitisti ill is sine laborc, omtie dclecia- 
mentum in se habent< m et omnis saporis snavitatem .” 

Blit, though religion and science are intimately 
united in the cradle by participation in faith and in 
the works of faith, their development follows along 
widely divergent lines. Religion proceeds on its sa- 
cred mission accompanied, supported, and guided by 
faith throughout the whole journey, and calls in the 
aid of reason only to remove the obstacles and impedi- 
ments occasioned by the w eakness or scepticism of the 
finite intelligence. Science, like the prodigal son, 
leaves his father’s house to wander in strange lands 
and among strange scenes, and too often forgets the 


FAKIR 


FAITH OF JESUS, SOC. OF THE 467 


innocence, the purity, and the heavenly illumination 
of his paternal home. But still the first lessons of 

faith “the vision splendid” of his youth — attend his 

course, return to his memory, recall his origin, and 
silently reclaim him to his early home. 

“ Perchance he may return with others there, 

When he has purged his guilt.” 

Science thus reposes on faith, upon principles of the 
same generic character as those which furnish the 
substance of religion ; but it requires them only as 
premises which are soon left out and forgotten in its 
strictly ratiocinative development. It is willingly 
oblivious of the fact that “there are more things in 
heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our philoso- 
phy.” Religion receives these and the like principles 
of faith as its commencement, beginning, and end. 
Science commences where religion leaves off, but it is 
ushered into its career by faith. 

These brief and undeveloped views may perhaps 
indicate the means of securing a valid conciliation of 
faith and reason, of religion and science, and of estab- 
lishing the limits of their respective spheres, and the 
characteristics of their respective procedures. Inter- 
preted as they have been here explained, their con- 
trasts and functions remain distinctly marked, but 
they cease to be antagonistic, and have neither reason 
nor excuse for enmity. — Compare Shedd, History of 
Doctrines , i, 154 sq. ; Chlebus, Stud. u. Krit . 184G, p. 
005 sq. ; Edinburgh Review , Oct. 1840, art. i ; Westcott, 
Study of the Gospels , p. 303; M'Cosh, Intuitions of the 
Mind , bk. ii, ch. i, and pt. iii, bk. ii, ch. v ; Miles, Phi- 
losophical Theology (Charleston, 1850, 8vo). (G. F. II.) 

Faith of Jesus, Society of the (or Fathers 
of the Faith), an ecclesiastical order in the Church 
of Rome, founded by Paccanari, a Tyrolese enthusiast, 
and formerly a soldier of the pope, under the patron- 
age of the archduchess Mariana. The intention of 
Paccanari was to give to the Church a substitute for 
the order of the Jesuits, which had been suppressed by 
Clement XIV. The foundation of the society was 
laid by Paccanari and twelve companions in 1798 at a 
villa near Spoleto, which a nobleman had offered to 
them for that purpose. The rule adopted by Pacca- 
nari was almost identical with that of the Jesuits. 
Pope Pius VI, who was at that time kept a prisoner 
by the government of France in a monastery near 
Florence, and whom Paccanari visited, encouraged the 
new society, and recommended to it the pupils of the 
Propaganda whom the government of the Roman re- 
public had expelled from their college. In 1799, Pac- 
canari, while on a visit to Rome, was arrested, together 
with his companions, but they were soon set at liberty 
on the condition that they should leave the Roman 
territory. In the same year the “ Society of the Sa- 
cred Heart,,” a societ} 7- which had been established in 
1794 by some ex-Jesuits for the purpose of reviving 
the order of the Jesuits under a different name, united, 
in consequence of an express order of the pope, with 
the Fathers of the Faith, and recognised Paccanari as 
their superior. The latter, who up to this time had 
been a layman, now received minor orders at the hands 
of the papal nuncio in Vienna, and in 1S00 was or- 
dained priest. The society, which had already taken 
charge of several missions in Africa, established houses 
in Bavaria, Italy, France, England, and Holland, 
and in 1804 numbered about eighty members. Pope 
Pius VI I was, however, not favorable to them. Some 
of the members joined the Jesuits, who had been re- 
stored in Russia and (in 1804) in Naples, while others 
repudiated the authority of Paccanari, and placed 
themselves under the direct authority of the diocesan 
bishops. Paccanari himself was summoned before an 
ecclesiastical court, and sentenced to life-long impris- 
onment. The second invasion of Rome by the French 
restored to him his liberty, but the society was wholly 
dissolved in 1814, when its last members joined the or- 
der of the Jesuits, who in that year were restored for 


the whole Church. — Henrion-Fehr, Gesch . der Monchs- 
orden , ii, 62. (A. J. S.) 

Faithful. (1.) A title given in Scripture to Chris- 
tians (1 Cor. iv, 17 ; Ephes. vi, 21, et al.). (2.) The 

term 7 rtoroi, the faithful (fideles), was tile general 
and favorite name in the early Church to denote bap- 
tized persons. By this name they were distinguished, 
on the one hand, from the uttiotoi , such as- were not 
Christians ; and, on the other, from the catechumens. 
— Bingham, Orig. Eccl. bk. i, ch. iii, iv; Riddle, Chris- 
tian Antiquities, bk. ii, cli. v. 

Fakir (also spelled Faquir). This word, derived 
from the Arabicjfafo* (poverty), is used by tbe Arabs to 
designate those mendicant orders called by the Persians 
and Turks dervishes . By Europeans it is commonly 
used to denote certain Hindoo sects noted for asceti- 
cism and austerities. For a brief account of the Mo- 
hammedan Fakirs, see the article Dervish. We 
mention here, in addition, only a sect of them styled 
Calenders , from the name of their founder, Sautone 
Ivalenderi, described by Knolles (History of the Turks ) 
as Epicureans, whose motto is, “ This day is ours, to- 
morrow is his who ma} r live to enjoy it,” and in whose 
view the tavern is as holy as the mosque, and God as 
well pleased with their debaucheries, i. e. “liberal use 
of his creatures,” as with the austerities of others (see 
D'Herbelot, s. v. Calender). 

1. History. — We find no religious devotees of this 
kind among the Mohammedans earlier than the 13th 
century after Christ, though the origin of Hindoo fakir- 
ism is by some writers referred back to Sakyamuni. See 
Buddhism. But a satisfactory explanation of the ori- 
gin of fakirism may be found in that perverted human 
tendency which in all ages has sought to earn the favor 
of God and the praise of men through abstraction of 
the soul and chastenings of the flesh, and has been too 
prone to accord to such acts undue homage and sanc- 
tity. Nowhere lias this tendency been more marked 
than among the imaginative and superstitious peoples 
of the East. The account which Strabo, on the au- 
thority of Megasthenes, Aristobulus, and others, has 
given us of the Gynmosophists, especially that class 
called by him Carmines , and by others Sarmani or 
Samamei, shows that ascetics, very similar in modes 
of life, doctrines, and practices to the Fakirs of mod- 
ern India, were found there at the time of Alexander's 
conquests. This conclusion is strengthened by the de- 
scriptions of Quintus Curtins, Arrian, Plutarch, Pliny, 
Clemens Alexandrinus, and other ancient authors, 
when treating of the philosophers of India. It seems 
not a merely speculative view which assumes that the 
naked philosophers, so celebrated in ancient times, were, 
in an ethical sense at least, the progenitors of the 
modern Fakirs (see Ileeren, Asiatic Nations, ii, 242, 
note). 

Among the mendicant devotees who abounded in 
India at the date of the Mohammedan conquests we 
find the Fakirs mentioned as prominent in the venera- 
tion of the people, and exercising an almost unlimited 
influence over them ; and frequent mention is made 
of these fanatics and their strange practices by the 
travellers who have described India since the period 
named. D’Herbelot estimated that there was in In- 
dia 800,000 Mohammedan and 1,200,000 idolatrous Fa- 
kirs, while the number of both sorts is now estimated 
at over 1,000,000. Fakirism, with other forms of su- 
perstitious fanaticism, seems to be rapidly losing 
ground under the influences and agencies which, since 
the prevalence of British rule, have been diffusing the 
light of the purer doctrines of the Gospel through In- 
dia. 

2. Sects or Fraternities. — They are divided into sects 
or orders, each differing from the others more or less 
in dress, habits, etc. Owing perhaps to the lack of 
organization and the number of their fraternities, the 
accounts of travellers and other authorities in this re* 


FAKIR 


468 


FALASHAS 


spect seem conflicting and fragmentary. Without at- 
tempting any precise classification, we may group 
them under two heads : 1. Those living in communities , 
either in convents, as Western monks, or wandering 
about in troops, sometimes amounting to thousands. 
2. Those living singly, as hermits or as vagabond men- 
dicants, passing from place to place, practising the 
arts and tricks of their order, and receiving from the 
credulous superstition of the people the entertainment 
and alms provided at public expense in the villages 
for persons of their class. 

“ The Fakirs of India,” says Zimmermann (Yonder 
Einsamkeit, ii, 107), “ have a sect which is called the 
Illuminated, or those who are united with God. The 
Illuminated have overcome the world, live in some se- 
cluded garden, like hermits, so deeply sunk in contem- 
plation that they look for whole hours at one spot, in- 
sensible to all outward objects. But then, as the}" 
state, with indescribable delight they perceive God as 
a pure white light. For some days before they live 
on nothing but bread and water, sink into deep silence, 
look upward for some time with fixed gaze, turn their 
eyes in deep concentration of the soul to the point of 
the nose, and now the white light appears” (Ennenio- 
ser, i, 205-6). 

The Fakirs, or Yogees, of the Senessee tribe travel 
over Ilindostan, living on the charity of the other 
Hindoos, generally entirely naked, and “ most of them 
robust, handsome men. They admit proselytes from 
the other tribes, especially youths of bright parts, and 
take great pains to instruct them in their mysteries.” 
Collected in large bodies, and armed, they make pil- 
grimages to sacred places, laying the country under 
contribution. Led on by an old woman named Bos- 
timia, who pretended to possess the gift of enchant- 
ment, one of their hosts, 20,000 strong, defeated an 
army of Aurungzebe, and for a time, through the in- 
fluence of superstitious fears, paralyzing his powers of 
resistance, spread terror and dismay through his court 
and capital. Niebuhr, the traveller, speaks of the 
Bargais and the Gusseins, two orders of Fakirs, as 
travelling armed, and in troops of thousands. The 
I conn graph ic Encyclopaedia (iv, 232) names three class- 
es of Hindoo ascetics, viz. JSanashis or Saniassi , Vish- 
navins, and Penitents. 

3. Peculiar Doctrines and Austerities. — The-profession 
of poverty constitutes a fundamental principle of fa- 
kirism, as the name itself indicates. One author says 
“the equality which God most loves in his creatures 
is poverty ;” and tradition reports Mohammed as say- 
ing to his servant Belal, “ See to it that you appear 
before God poor and not rich, for the poor have the 
chief places in his mansion.” Another fundamental 
principle is the virtue of self-torture, penances, and se- 
clusion of spirit as means for the attainment of sanc- 
tity. The Fakir, says Ilassan al Basri, is like a dog 
in ten things: he is always hungry; has no fixed 
abode; watches during the night; leaves no heritage 
when he dies; does not abandon his master, though ' 
ill treated; chooses the lowest place; yields his place 
to whomsoever wishes it ; returns to him who has beat- 
en him, when a crust of bread is offered ; keeps quiet 
while others eat, and follows his master without think- 
ing of returning to the place he has left. The variety 
and character of their penances and mortifications of 
the flesh display no little ingenuity of conception, and 
demand great powers of endurance in performance. 
Some go naked, or wear only filth}’' rags, suffering the 
heat of the sun, the storms of rain, and the cold of 
the night in the open air, sleeping on cow-dung or oth- 
er ordure, “delighting in nastiness and a holy obscen- 
ity with a great show of sanctit} r ,” with hair uncut, 
and body and face besmeared with ashes, looking more 
like devils than men. One has kept his arms in one 
position until they shrivelled up; another has kept his 
hands clasped together until the nails grew through 
the flesh. Some have buried themselves up to their I 


chins in pits, and thus remained for days ; others have 
imprisoned themselves for life in iron cages ; one has 
had his cheeks and tongue pierced with a sharp iron, 
kept in its place by another passing under the chin ; 
another would drag along a heavy chain, one link of 
which passed through the tenderest part of the bod}", 
the penis; one bears on his neck a heavy } r oke, with 
heavy weights in his hands ; another lies down on a 
bed of iron spikes; one suspends himself head down- 
wards over a fire until his scalp is burned to the bone ; 
another traverses long distances by rolling on the 
ground, receiving his food and drink from the hands 
of the people ; one makes the singular vow to perforin 
a long journey by rolling himself along as a sort of 
cart-wheel : having for this purpose fastened his wrists 
and ankles together, and caused a tire, made of chopped 
straw, mud, and cows’ dung, to be laid along the ridge 
of his back-bone, with a bamboo-stick passed through 
the angle made by his knees and elbows for an axle, 
he rolls himself to the first village on his route, where 
he is received with' demonstrations of jo} r ous respect, 
and conducted to the tank or well for ablution. As- 
certaining what house' of the village promises the 1 est 
cheer, thither he repairs, and there remains until the 
supplies fail. He then repeats the process of prepara- 
tion, and journe} r s to another place. Some fakirs have 
combined traffic with their religious pilgrimages, and 
by the exchange of valuable, } r et easily transported ar- 
ticles, carried in their belts and clothing, have made 
great gains in the pelf of the world which the}" so 
much affect to despise. The lives ot‘ some, perhaps, 
comport with the spirit of sanctity and self-denial pro- 
fessed, but most of them are in secret addicted to gross 
vices, and whenever favorable opportunity offers, the 
pride and cruelty of their hearts display themselves. 

4. Literature. — Strabo, § 712-719; Arrianus, Indica, 
cap. xii; Quintus Curtins, lib. viii, cap. ix; Plutarch, 
Vita Alexandri; PI in}", / 'list. Nat. lib. vii, cap. ii ; Cle- 
mens Alexandrinus, /Stromata , lib. i, 305 d. ; Bohlen, 
Das Alte Jndien ; Coleman , Mythology of the Hindus; 
Duff, India and Indian Missions ; Ward, / list. Literat . 
Mythology , etc. of’ the Hindus; Iconographic Encyclopae- 
dia, iv, 12-13 (N. York, 1851); D'Herbelot, Libliotheque 
Oricntale , s. v. Fakir and Calender ; Ennemoser, llis- 
lory of Magic , i, 205-10 (Bohn's ed. 1854); India , Pic- 
torial, Descriptive , and Historical , p. 73, 115-119, 430 
(Bohn's lilustr. Library); Ihtffner, The Fathers of the 
Desert , i, 23-51. For pictorial illustrations, see Har- 
per's Weekly for 1857, p. 540, and Iconographic Eney- 
clopcedia , I’lates to Mythology and Peligions Kites, pi. 2, 
fig. 20, and pi. 3, fig. io, 11, and 12. (J. W. M.) 

Falaquera, Siiem Tobias BEX-JosErn ben, a 
Spanish dew of great learning, and a philosopher of 
the school of Maim on ides, was born about 1228’. Be- 
sides a work on The Delation of Peligion and Philosophy , 
he wrote, in 1263, 11' p- -Si, the Inquirer (printed at 
Amsterdam, 1779). Later he wrote !T£!n O, Psychol- 
ogy (Amst. 1835), in which he follows the Arabic school 
of Aristotle's disciples; riEPw, Ethics ; 

and in 1280 a work on the philosophical parts of Mo- 
reh, Sl^llEn iTIlE (printed at Pressburg, 1837). We 
mention also V^:p mSE, a work written in 1290 
in defence of Maimonides. — dost, Gesch. d. Judcnthums 
u. seiner Sekten, iii, 27. (J. H. W.) 

Falashas ( Black Jews'), a large and peculiar race 
inhabiting the province of Semen, on the shores of the 
Tzana Sea, near Gondar and the mountainous regions 
of northern Abyssinia. The word Falasha means ex- 
ile, and sufficiently indicates that the}' were not na- 
tives of the soil. They have a skin more or less dark, 
without possessing, however, the negro type, and speak 
both the dominant language of the country — the Am- 
baric, and a dialect of the Agaon language. They 
possess the whole of the Jewish Canon (O. T. Canon) 
in the Gueez language (a sister language of the Ile^ 


FALCANDUS 469 FALCON 


frrew, Arabic, and Aramaean dialects, and from which 
the Amharic is derived), together with the apocryphal 
books accepted by the Abyssinian Church. Their 
priests, who live round the inclosures of the temple 
(which are situated near the edge of the Falaslia vil- 
lages, and have more the appearance of the ancient 
sanctuary than the modern synagogue), observe the 
laws of purity with rigor, prepare their own food, and 
keep aloof from the world. They are principally en- 
gaged in the education of youth, making the Bible and 
the traditional practices the basis of their instruction. 
The Falashas deviate from Jewish usages in many re- 
sists. Thus the fringed praying-scarf (taletli, q. v.), 
the phylacteries (q. v.), are not used in their devo- 
tions. They retaiu the usage of offering sacrifices, 
but rather as commemorative ceremonies than as real 
sacrifices ; the most common is the offering for the re- 
pose of the dead. No sacrifices can be offered on the 
Sabbath or on the day of atonement. The Falashas, 
with all other Jewish sects, hope for a return to the 
sacred city, Jerusalem. While polygamy is not for- 
bidden by law, it is nevertheless censured. They 
have a special hatred of slave-dealers, yet slavery is 
tolerated among them ; they instruct the slaves in 
the law of Moses, and manumit them on conversion. 
They are a very industrious race, and have the repu- 
tation of being good farmers. They are also able war- 
riors (many fought under king Theodore in the late 
Abyssinian war), but are averse to commerce, which 
they consider an obstacle to fidelity and rigor in re- 
ligious observances. The Falashas were formerly gov- 
erned by an independent prince, whose residence was 
in the fastness of Ainha Gideon, and it is only since 
1800, after the extinction of the race of their original 
masters, that they have passed tinder the domination 
of the princes of Tigris. They claim that their ances- 
tors settled in Abyssinia as early as the time of Solo- 
mon, hut it is likely that they came much later. The 
knowledge of Hebrew they have lost. In 18G7, the 
central committee of the Jewish Alliance Univsrselle , 
which lias its seat in Paris, sent M. Leon llalevy to 
Abyssinia to make a tour of exploration among the 
Falashas, and report on what might be done for their 
education, with a special view to counteracting the in- 
fluence of the Christian missionaries who had been 
sent out from India. After his return, M. Halevy 
made, in July, 1868, a very interesting report on the 
Falashas, and announced the publication of an “Essay 
on the Falashah,” which will undoubtedly bo the first 
thorough work on the subject. He brought with him 
a young Falashah, who will be educated in France. — 
Pierer, Universal-Lcxikon, vi, 79 ; Israelite , vol. xv, No. 
21 and 25. (J. II. W.) 

Falcandus, Hugo, a distinguished historian, lived 
in the 12th century. According to the Benedictine 
authors of the work L' Art de Verifier les Dates, he was 
a native of France (his original name being Fulcan- 
dus or Foucault); accompanied his patron Stephen de 
la Perche, archbishop of Palermo, and grand-uncle of 
king William II, to Sicily, and finally became abbot 
of St. Denys, at Paris.. Gibbon is of opinion that he 
was a native of Sicily. Ilis celebrated work, Historia 
Sicula , which procured for him the surname of the Si- 
cilian Tacitus, was published in 1189 or 1190, and is of 
great importance for the Church history of that peri- 
od. — Wetzer u. "NVelte, Kirch.-Lex. iv, 885. (A. J. S.) 

Falcon, a bird of the hawk tribe, anciently trained 
to assist in hunting, and still used in the East for the 
same purpose. Dr. Thomson {Land and Look, i, 309 
sq.) thus speaks of the practice in Palestine: “The 
beg at the castle of Tibnin, which we are now ap- 
proaching, always keeps several of these large falcons 
on their perches in his grand reception-hall, where 
they are tended with the utmost care. I have been 
out on the mountains to see them hunt, and it is a 
most exciting scene. The emirs sit on their horses, 



holding the birds on their wrists, and the woods are 
filled with their retainers, beating about and shouting, 
to start up and drive toward them the poor partridges. 
When near enough, the falcon is launched from the 
hand, and swoops down upon his victim like an eagle 
hasting to the pre}'. After he has struck his quarry, 
the falcon flies a short distance, and lights on the 
gronnd, amid the redoubled shouts of the sportsmen. 
The keeper darts forward, secures both, cuts the throat 
of the partridge, and allows his captor to suck its blood. 
This is his reward. Notwithstanding the exhilara- 
tion of the sport, I could never endure the falcon him- 
self. There is something almost Satanic in his eye, 
and in the ferocity with which he drinks tlm warm 
life-blood of his innocent victim. I once saw some 
men of Tortosa catching the Syrian quail with a small 
hawk. This was done on foot, each sportsman carry- 
ing his bird on the right wrist, and beating the bushes 
with a stick held in his left hand. These quails' are 
less than the American ; are migratory, coming here 
in early spring, and passing on to the north. They 
hide under the bushes, and will not rise on the wing 
unless forced to do so by a dog, or by the hunter him- 
self. I was surprised to see how quickly and surely 
the little hawk seized his game. His reward also was 
merely the blood of the bird. I do not know whether 
or not the Jews in ancient days were acquainted with 
falconry, but David complains that Saul hunted for 
his blood ns one doth hunt for a partridge in the 
mountains (1 Sam. xxvi, 20); and this hunting of the 
same bird on these mountains, and giving their blood 
to the hawk, reminds one of the sad complaint of the 
persecuted son of Jesse. In the neighborhood of 
Aleppo the smaller falcon is taught to assist the sports- 
man to capture the gazelle. Neither horse nor grey- 
hound can overtake these fleet creatures on the open 
desert, and therefore the Arabs have taught the hawk 
to fasten on their forehead, and blind them by inces- 
sant flapping of their wings. Bewildered and terri- 
fied, they leap about at random, and are easily cap- 
tured. They are also trained to attack the bustard in 
the same region. This bird is about as large as a tur- 
key, and highly prized by the lovers of game ; but, as 
they keep on the vast level plains, where there is noth- 
ing to screen the cautious hunter, it is almost impos- 
sible to get within gunshot of them. AVhen they rise 
in the air, the little falcon flies u*p from beneath and 
fastens on one of their wings, and then both come 
whirling over and over to the ground, when the hunter 
quickly seizes the bustard, and delivers his brave bird 
from a position not particularly safe or comfortable. 
They will even bring down the largest eagle in the 


FALCONET? 


FALL OF MAN 


4 

came way ; but in this desperate game they are some- 
times torn to pieces by t lie insulted majesty of the 
feathered kingdom.” See Hawk. 



Falconer, Tiiomas, A.M., a Church of England 
divine, was born at Bath in 1771; was made fellow of 
Corpus Christi College, Oxford, in 1794, and died in 
1889. He published The Resurrection of our Saviour 
(1798): — Eight Discourses on the alleged Dissonances in 
the Gospels , in reply to Evanson (q. v.) (Hampton Lec- 
ture, Oxf. 1811, 8vo) : — The Case of Eusebius of Ciesa- 
rea (Loud. 18*22, Svo) ; and other critical and historical 
writings. 

Faldistorium or Fald-stool, a stool folding like 
a camp-stool, formerly used in the inthronization of 
bishops, and in coronations, both for sitting and kneel- 
ing. In modern times the name is (improperly) given 
to a small stool at which, in some English churches, 
the Litany .is read. In those churches in which it is 
used it is generally placed in the middle of the choir, 
near the steps of the communion-table. The name is 
probably from fallen, plicare, and stoul, scdes. — Mas- 
kell, Monum. Ritualia , iii, 8G ; Siegel, A Iterthumer, ii, 
453. 

Fallmer, Thomas, a missionar} 7 - Jesuit, the son 
of an eminent surgeon at Manchester, England, was 
born at Manchester about 1710, and was bred to his 
father’s profession, lie visited Buenos Ayres, and 
falling ill there, was nursed by the Jesuits, and un- 
der the influence of their kindness was led to aban- 
don the Presbyterian Church in which he had been 
brought up, to enter the Homan Church, and to join 
the order of Jesuits. lie devoted himself to mission- 
ary labors, in which his medical skill was of great use. 
lie spent forty years in this service in various parts 
of South America. After the suppression of the order 
he returned to England, where he died January 30, 
1784. lie wrote a Description of Patagonia (London, 
1774, 4to) : — Botanical and other Observations in A mer- 
ica ( i vols. foh). — Migne, Diet, de Biog. Chrct . s. v. 

Fall of Man, a phrase which “does not occur in 
Scripture, but is probably taken from the book of Wis- 
dom, chap, x, 1. It is a convenient term to express 
the fact of the revolt of our first parents from God, 
and the consequent sin and misery in which they and 
their posterity were involved.” 

I. Scriptural Account of the Fall. — (1.) The Mosaic 
account is (Gen. ii, iii), that a garden having been 
planted by the Creator for the use of man, he was 
placed in it to dress it and to keep it ; that in this gar- 
den two trees w'ere specially distinguished, one as the 
tree of life, the other as the tree of knowledge of good 
and evil ; that Adam was put under the following pro- 
bation by his Maker (Gen. ii, 16, 17) : “And the Lord 
God commanded the man, saying. Of every tree of the 
garden thou niayest freely eat; but of the tree of the 


0 

knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it ; 
for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt sure- 
ly die that the serpent, who was more subtil than 
any beast of the field, tempted the woman to eat, by 
denying that death would be the consequence, and by 
assuring her that her eyes and those of her husband 
should be opened, and that they should be “as gods, 
knowing good and evil that the woman took of the 
fruit, gave of it to her husband, who also ate ; and that 
for this act of disobedience they were expelled from 
the garden, made subject to death, and laid under va- 
rious maledictions. 

(2.) Whether this account he a literal history or not, 
has been matter of great discussion, not merely be- 
tween Christians and unbelievers, but also among 
Christian interpreters. One theory is that the pas- 
sage is an allegory, signifying the origin of sin in the 
abuse of free-will, under which the appetites of man 
were allowed to obtain supremacy over his higher 
pow'ers. Another (later) view makes the narration 
mythical. The general current of Christian interpre- 
tation has held the passage to be historical, and has 
interpreted it literally. Philo Judaeus (f c. 40), speak- 
ing of the account of Paradise, says : “These accounts 
seem to me to be symbolical ; not mere fabulous in- 
ventions like those of the poets and sophists, but rather 
types shadowing forth allegorical truth according to 
I some mystical explanation.” So he makes the ser- 
pent the symbol of pleasure, etc. (C)n the Creation of 
the World, Bohn’s translation, London, 1854, p. 4G sq.). 

Among the early Church writers, Clement considers 
the narrative of the Fall partly as fact and partly as 
allegory (Strom, v, 31, p. G89, 90), and, following Philo, 
makes the serpent the image of voluptuousness. Ori- 
gen regards the account as allegorical (De princ. iv, 1G ; 
contra Cels, iv, 40 ; comp, also Origen, Frctgm. in Gen . 
ad loc.). Irenauis held the passage to be historical; 
so also Tertullian, adv. Judaos , ii, 184; De rirg. rel . 
11 ; adv. il fare, ii, 2. “ lie insists upon the literal in- 

terpretation of the particulars of the narrative, as they 
succeeded each other in order of time (De resurr. earn. 
G1 : Adam ante nomina animalibus enuneiavit, quam 
de arbore deeerpsit ; ante etiam prophetavit, quam 
voravit). The Gnostics made it allegorical or mythi- 
cal. On the Gnostic (Basil idinn) doctrine of the Fall 
(ovyxvoiQ dpxtKif), compare Clem. Strom, ii, 20, p. 488 ; 
Gieseler, Stud. v. Kritiken (1830), p. 39G. The author 
of the Clementine Homilies goes so far in idealizing 
Adam, as to convert the historical person into a purely 
mythical being (like the Adam-Cadmon of the Cab- 
balists), while he represents Eve as far inferior to him. 
Hence Adam could not trespass, but sin makes its first 
appearance in Cain ; Baur, Gnosis, p. 339’’ (Ilagen- 
bach, History of Doctrines, § 61). Among the later fa- 
thers, and in the scholastic period, the account was 
generally held to be historical. Augustine (De Civi- 
tate Dei, xiii, 21) asserts the historical verity of the 
narration, but adds that true spiritual and typical mean- 
ings are contained in it; e. g. Paradise is the Church, 
the tree of know ledge is the type of free-will, etc. 

The theologians of the Ileformation followed the 
Scholastics in adhering to the literal interpretation, 
but differ in the exposition of several parts of the 
narrative ; e. g. the serpent is held by some to be 
a natural serpent ; by ethers, Satan in the guise of 
a serpent, etc. Calvin (Commentary on Genesis iii) 
speaks as follow's : “It appears, perhaps, scarcely con- 
sonant with reason that the serpent only should be 
here brought forward, all mention of Satan being sup- 
pressed. I acknowledge, indeed, that from this place 
alone nothing more can he collected than that men. 
w'ere deceived hv the serpent. But the testimonies 
of Script me are sufficiently numerous in which it is 
plainly asserted that the serpent was only the mouth 
of the devil ; for not the serpent, hut the devil, is de- 
clared to be ; the father of lies,’ the fabricator of im- 
posture, and the author of death. The question, how^ 


FALL OF MAN 


471 


FALL OF MAN 


ever, is not yet solved why Moses has kept back the | 
name of Satan. I willingly subscribe to the opinion 
of those who maintain that the Holy Spirit then pur- 
posel} r used obscure figures, because it was fitting that 
full and clear light should be reserved for the kingdom 
of Christ. In the mean time the prophets prove that 
they were well acquainted with the meaning of Moses 
when, in different places, they cast the blame of our 
ruin upon the devil. We have elsewhere said that 
Moses, by a homely and uncultivated style, accommo- 
dates what he delivers to the capacity of the people, 
and for the best reason ; for not only had he to in- 
struct an untaught race of men, but the existing age 
of the Church was so puerile that it was unable to re- 
ceive any higher instruction. There is, therefore, 
nothing absurd in the supposition that they whom, for 
the time, we know and confess to have been but as in- 
fants, were fed with milk. Or (if another comparison 
be more acceptable) Moses is by no means to be blamed 
if he, considering the office of schoolmaster as imposed 
upon him, insists on the rudiments suitable to chil- 
dren. They who have an aversion to this simplicity 
must of necessity condemn the whole economy of God 
in governing the Church.” A similar view is given 
by Kurtz, Bible and Astronomy (Phi la. 1861), p. 174 sq. 
The modern extreme nationalists generally interpret j 
the narrative as mythical. Eichhorn ( Urgeschichte ) j 
finds truth in it in the form of poetry, that is, he 
makes it a myth ; so Gabler, Paulus, and others. 
Kant, Schelling, and other recent German philoso- 
phers and interpreters make it a “speculative myth.” 
Von Bohlen (On Genesis iii) follows Rosenmiiller in 
supposing that the narrator had the Zendavesta in 
view. Julius Miiller gives up the historical character 
of the narrative. “ If now,” lie siys, “we turn to the 
narrative in the book of Genesis, we shall find that 
not sin, but physical suffering and death, are there 
connected with Adam’s fall. This fact, and the les- 
son that man’s ruin originated in himself, are the great 
truths which are to be gathered from the story, which 
must be regarded as fundamentally true, although the 
story is in the form of a fable. That it is not to be 
taken literally is plain from Scripture, for the story in 
Genesis speaks of the serpent as the agent in the temp- 
tation of Eve. St. Paul speaks of the same temptation 
as coming from Satan. It is usual to assume that the 
serpent was the mere instrument of Satan, but there 
is nothing to lead us to this view in the -words of the 
narrative. St. Paul, by interpolating this into the nar- 
rative, shows ns that it is not to be taken as literally 
true. We find in John viii, 44, ‘the devil was a mur- 
derer from the beginning,’ an allusion to the ruin of 
man by the temptation. If this be so, it is a plain 
reference to Satan as the cause of man’s bodily death. 
To bring in the idea of spiritual death seems less ap- 
propriate, for our Lord was rebuking the murderous 
intentions of the Jews. It was through conduct like 
that of the devil that they showed themselves his chil- 
dren” (Doctrine o f Sin, Edinb. 1868, p.78, 70). 

The more recent German interpreters of the better 
class (e. g. Havernick, Delitzseh, Keil, etc.) admit the 
historical character of the account, but there are, of 
course, various theories among them as to its inter- 
pretation. Martensen (Christian Dogmatics, § 70) in- 
terprets the Mosaic account as a combination of his- 
tory and sacred symbolism, a figurative representa- 
tion of an actual event. Lange (On Genesis , Arnst. 
edit. p. 243), speaking of the narrative, says: “Like 
the Biblical histories everywhere, and especially the 
primitive traditions of Genesis, it is a historical fact, 
to be taken in a religious-ideal, that is, a symbolical 
form. It is just as little a mere allegory. It is just j 
as little a nure, naked fact, as the speaking of the ser- 
pent is a literal speaking, or as the tree of life, in it- 
self regarded, is a plant, whose eating imparted imper- 
ishable life. That sin began with the beginning of the | 
race, that the first sin had its origin in a forbidden en- | 


joyment of nature, and not in the Cainitic fratricide 
or similar crimes, that the origin of human sin points 
back to the beginning of the human race, that the 
woman was ever more seducible than the man, that 
along with sin came in the tendency to sin, conscious- 
ness of guilt, alienation from God, and evil in general 
— all these are affirmations of the religious historical 
consciousness which demand the historical ness of our 
tradition, and would point back to some such fact, 
even though it -were not written in Genesis.” 

The interpretations of the serpent have been very 
variant. Eusebius (Prcrp. Evang. i, 10) sa} r s that Mo- 
ses calls the evil spirit (7rom/po£ Caipojp) by the name 
of “serpent,” as he is “full of poison and malice.” 
Adam Clarke (Commentary on Genesis , ch. iii) inter- 
prets the word nach tsh (rendered “serpent”) to mean 
“a creature of the ape or ourang-outang kind.” His 
notes on the whole passage afford a very curious speci- 
men of exegesis. We cite Lange (Genesis, Amer. edit, 
p. 228) as follows: “True it is that the serpent ap- 
pears as the probable author of this temptation, but 
such probabilit} 7 - is weakened b} r what is said in i, 25 
and ii, 20. 4 The serpent was a good creation of God, 

though different, as originally created, from what it 
afterwards became’ (Delitzseh). As a type, the ser- 
pent is just as well the figure of health and renovation 
as of death, since every year it changes its skin, and 
ejects, moreover, its venom. This double peculiarity 
and double character, as dyaBodaifuov and Kcacodai- 
fuov , is indicated not only in language, but also in 
myths, in sculpture, and in modes of worship. In 
this relation, however, we must distinguish two di- 
verging views of the ancient peoples. To the Egyp- 
tian reverence for the serpent stands in opposition the 
abhorrence for it among the Israelites [see Serpent], 
Greeks, Persians, and Germans.” “ That Satan made 
use of the serpent, and that a serpent was somehow 
employed, is likely ; the language of Jehovah subse- 
quently, while it was literally true of the instrument, 
being in a higher sense true of the agent, the one be- 
ing made the emblem of the other (Gen. iii, 14). Was 
the language here entirely symbolical and figurative, 
having nothing in it literal whatever? This does not 
seem likely. Why should such an allusion have been 
employed at all to describe the outcast and degraded 
condition of a fallen angel, had there been nothing 
whatever giving the serpent any connection with the 
temptation and the fall? Is it not more reasonable 
to consider both as blended, the literal and the symbol- 
ical? (Gen. iii, 4; 2 Cor. xi, 3; Rev. xii, 0; xx, 2; 
Gen. iii, 15; Col. ii, 15; Rom. xvi, 20; 1 John iii, 8; 
John viii, 44). Conjectures, too, have arisen out of 
the terms in which the serpent was addressed : 4 l T pon 
thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shaltthou eat all the 
daj r s of thy life.’ ‘The serpent, perhaps,’ says Gill, 
4 formerly moved in a more erect posture, but was 
doomed to lick the dust.’ 4 Probably his original res- 
idence and food,’ guesses another, 4 were in the trees, 
but now he is degraded to the earth.’ That sentence 
evidently, whatever might be its literal application to 
the serpent, was emblematically meant of Satan him- 
self. 4 PlainU” figurative,’ says Dwight, 4 to express a 
state of peculiar degradation and suffering’ ” (Ward- 
law, Systematic Theology , p. 85-7). Watson defends 
the historical character of the narrative (Institutes, pt. 
ii, ch. xviii), as also does Holden, Dissertation on the 
Fall (Lond. 1823, 8vo). Conyers Middleton (Essay on 
the A Uegorical and Literal Interpretation of the Fall , 
IPor&s, 1775, ii, 437) maintains the allegorical view. 
Comp. Pye Smith, First Lines of Theologij, bk. iv, ch. ii. 

A writer in the Journal of Sacred Literature (i, 351 
sq.) seeks to show that the common opinion that the 
serpent was the instrument of the tempter is untena- 
ble, on the ground that the Scripture does not state 
that the serpent was an instalment; and that the lit- 
eral application of the words of the narrative to a ser 
pent as the instrument of Satan appears to be incon* 


FALL OF MAN 


472 


FALL OF MAN 


sistent with the present relation of the serpent to oth- 
er animals, and also with the testimony of geology as 
to fossil remains, etc. He maintains that under the 
name serpent Satan is meant, as there are “probable 
grounds for the conclusion that the serpent was, during 
the earliest ages, the name of the Evil One, reflecting 
the conception of him that then prevailed.” Bishop 
Newton ( Dissert . on Creation and Fall , 1st edit.) takes 
a similar view, viz. that Satan is spoken of in the pas- 
sage under the “well-known” symbol or hieroglyphic 
of the serpent, which was a proper emblem, he holds, 
of the deceiver of mankind, as in popular estimation it 
was held to be the most cunning and insidious of ani- 
mals. Sherlock ( Use and Intent of Prophecy, diss. iii) 
refers to the “ common usage of Eastern countries, 
which was, to clothe history in parables and simili- 
tudes;” and remarks that “it seems not improbable 
that for this reason the history of the fall was put into 
the dress in which we now lind it. The serpent was 
remarkable for an insidious cunning, and therefore 
stood as a proper emblem of a deceiver ; and yet, be- 
ing one of the lowest of God’s creatures, the emblem 
gave no suspicion of any power concerned that might 
pretend to rival the Creator.” What was the particu- 
lar nature of the sin of our first parents it is not an 
easy matter to determine. Bishop Newton remarks 
(1. c.) that “ eating forbidden fruit is nothing more 
than a continuation of the same hieroglyphic charac- 
ters wherein the history of the fall was recorded be- 
fore the use of letters. It was plainly the violation 
of a divine prohibition ; it was indulging an unlaw- 
ful appetite ; it was aspiring after forbidden knowl- 
edge, and pretending to be wise above their condition. 
So much may be safely asserted in general ; we be- 
wilder’ and lose ourselves in search of more particu- 
lars.” In a later edition of this dissertation ())'or£s, 

. i, 01\ bishop Newton modified the statement above 
given, and gave his adherence to the view that a real 
serpent was concerned in the fall (sec Quarry, On Gen- 
esis ix). Mar tense n ( Christian Dogmatics , § 303) pass- 
es by the question whether the “serpent was led by 
an evil spirit, or whether an evil spirit assumed the 
form of the serpent;” but he adds, “if we abide by 
the original narration, we may sa}' that the serpent is 
the allegorical designation for the criminal principle 
which opposed itself to man in temptation.” Dorten- 
bach (in llerzog, Deal-Encyklop. xv, -09, art. Siinde) 
maintains that the serpent was a real serpent, the tree 
a real tree, etc. Quarry gives a copious dissertation 
on Paradise and the Fall in his Genesis and its Author- 
ship (London, 1806, Svo). The aim of this writer is to 
Withdraw the scriptural statements “altogether fioni 
the range of physical interpretation.” He cites a re- 
mark of Ilengsten berg’s ( Christologie , tli. i, abt. i, p. 
20, ed. 1829), to the effect that if the serpent be sym- 
bolical, the whole history is symbolical, as, in a con- 
nected passage like this, unity of interpretation must 
prevail ; and it is not allowable to follow at one mo- 
ment the symbolical, and at the next moment the lit- 
eral interpretation. Admitting the truth of this, Quar- 
ry states that, nevertheless, the narrative may be, as a 
whole, not simply an apologue illustrating true prin- 
ciples, hut a true history of great facts represented 
symbolically. He interprets the tree of life (compare 
Bev. ii, 7 ; xxii, 2, 11), and the eating the fruit of the 
tree of knowledge, as mystical ; the former denoting 
the promise of eternal life conditioned on man’s obe- 
dience, the latter denoting the act of disobedience and 
its moral consequences, consciousness of guilt and 
shame. lie maintains that the supposition of a real 
serpent is untenable, as there is no ground for the be- j 
lief that Satan can possess at will any living creature, 
or work such a miracle as to make a serpent speak. 
“A natural serpent is literally spoken of, but this nat- 
ural serpent is only the symbol of the real tempter ; 
otherwise the innocent animal receives all the punish- 
ment, while the really guilty tempter escapes.” The 


real sin itself must have arisen at some point at which 
“ natural appetite passed into that stage of its prog- 
ress when, as St. James says, lust has conceived, and 
at which the sin thus conceived has quickened into 
mental transgression. This point, lost in the mystery 
which envelopes every beginning of existence, mental 
or material, of thought, act, or substance, was the real 
fall, and is better represented by the mystical symbol 
of the participation of forbidden fruit than by a histor- 
ical narrative that should only specify the overt act in 
words to be taken in their literal acceptation.” After 
answering Ilengstenberg’s objections to the symboli- 
cal interpretation (especially the objections drawn from 
those passages of the N. T. in which the history of the 
fall is taken as actual history, 2 Cor. xi, 3; 1 Tim. ii, 

| 33, 14 ; Bom. v, 12), he concludes with the general 
I statement that “ enough of the historical facts are pa- 
tent to suffice for all the moral and religious uses of 
| such a narrative, the creation and the fall being un- 
questionable verities but “nothing is told merely to 
gratify curiosity ; the details that could only serve this 
end are withdrawn behind the veil of a mystical mode 
of representation” (p. 155). See also Knapp, Christian 
Theology , § 75. 

Heathen Traditions . — There are many heathen tra- 
ditions concerning the creation and the fall, some of 
which have marked points of resemblance to the Bible 
account. In some mythologies the serpent is an ob- 
ject of worship, while in others “mythology repre- 
sents that reptile as trampled under the feet of a 
mighty deliverer. In a coin of Antoninus Pius ‘Her- 
cules is represented as plucking apples from a tree 
round the trunk of which a serpent is entwined.’ 
Among the Goths, the Persians, and the Hindoos, tra- 
ditions of a serpent of various kinds are found. Stil- 
lingfleet ingeniously observes that from this origin has 
come the use of serpents to so great an extent in divi- 
nation, Satan appearing ‘ambitious to have the world 
think that the knowledge of good and evil was to come 
by the serpent still.’ The Hebrew word for serpent 
signifies at the same time to divine , and the Greek 
word olwj’iZfoQcn has the same derivation frrm atw- 
vec, a serpent; ‘thus we see how careful the devil 
was to advance his honor in the world under that form 
wherein he had deceived mankind into so much folly 
and misery’” (YVardlaw, Systematic Theology , ii, 85 
sq.). It lias been the fashion to deny that the tradi- 
tions of the various peoples, analogous to the Mosaic 
account, are at all confirmations of that account. But 
the harmeny of these traditions has never been ration- 
ally explained apart from the theory that regards them 
as springing from common reminiscences of an actual 
occurrence. Auberlen remarks that “these oldest tra- 
ditions of the human race confirm the historical credi- 
bility of the Mosaic narrative, down to its details, just 
as much as they do the inner purity and elevation of 
them, compared with the myths of heathenism. In 
regard to this latter view, it is especially seen how 
Israel alone, along with the fact, retains the. deep, di- 
vine idea of it. The heathen, while they preserve 
with great fidelity the outward circumstances, clothe 
them in fantastic and national vesture. The differ- 
ence is the same in kind as that between the canonical 
\ and apocryphal gospels.” lie cites also Herder, con- 
cerning the narration in Genesis, as follows; “Its 
! sound has gone out into all the earth, and its very 
words into all lands ! Whence is it that the remotest 
nations have their knowledge of it? How comes it 
that they built on it religions and mythologies; that 
it is, in fact, the simplest foundation of all their arts, 
institutions, and sciences? If from it things may be 
made plain and clear as sunlight that are as chaos and 
j dark as night when it is denied, or when men prate 
of their hypotheses; if from this a whole antiquity 
may be reduced to order, and a line of light be drawn 
through the most confused events of the early history 
i of nations— light which, like that in Correggio’s pic- 


473 


FALL OF MAN 


FALL OF MAN 


ture, shines from the cradle of the race — what then 
have ye to say, ye manufacturers of myths, ye who 
would profane the revelation of God?” (Herder, adt. 
Urkunde der Mcnsdiengesclilechts ; AVerke, Carlsrnhe, 
1827, v, 187 ; vi, 4). 

IT. Doctrinal Import of the Narrative. — Whatever 
views are held as to the nature of the narrative in 
Gen. ii, iii, all who believe it to be a record of divine 
revelation find in it the following points of doctrine : 
1. That God, after creating man, placed him in a state 
of probation ; 2. that the test of his probation was obe- 
dience to the divine law; 3. that the temptation to 
disobedience came from an evil power outside of man ; 
4. that the temptation appealed both to the intellect 
and to the senses, leading first to unbelief in God, sec- 
ondly to putting “self” in place of God, and thereby 
to the beginning of evil lust; 5. that in the exercise 
of free will man yielded and sinned ; 6. that the con- 
sequences of the sin were knowledge of good and evil, 
separation from God, and death, the curse lighting 
upon man and upon nature also. Auberlen, referring 
to the three constituents of the first sin named above, 
viz. unbelief, self-love, and lust, remarks as follows : 
“That these three parts of the idea of sin are not acci- 
dental, but substantially express it and exhaust it, is 
shown not only in the fact that all sin that comes be- 
fore us in life may be referred to them, but also in the 
fact that they correspond to the three fundamental el- 
ements of man’s being and consciousness — spirit, soul, 
body — the God-consciousness, self-consciousness, and 
world-consciousness. These have all become corrupt- 
ed and perverted. They have become, respectively, 
alienation from God, selfishness, love of the world. 
The first and highest element of human nature — the 
spiritual — is negatived, obscured, made powerless ; the 
two others — the lower — are pushed into extreme but 
unhealthy prominence and activity. Man has become 
physical and fleshly. Unbelief is the negative, the 
union of self-seeking and the lust of the senses is the 
positive element in the idea of sin. Man no longer 
wishes for God ; he is bent on having the creature in 
both ways, the mental and natural, the subjective and 
objective ; he will have his own Ego and the world 
too. According to Gen. iii, 5, G, the selfishness is, as 
it were, the soul; sensuousness, the body of sin: the 
first is the deep, invisible root; the second, the exter- 
nal manifestation. The Ego, separated from God, 
seeks in the world the elements on which it lives. 
Genesis thus comprehends the various opposing theo- 
ries of men on the nature of sin, the theory of selfish- 
ness, which in recent times is represented by Julius 
Muller, and that of the senses by Schleiermacher and 
Rothe. It leads both ethical theories back to a relig- 
ious basis, and in that matter modern thought has a 
great deal to learn” {Divine Revelation , Edinb. 18G7, p. 
184). 

The theological question of the connection between 
the siu of Adam and that of the whole human race will 
be treated under the articles Imputation ; Sin. For 
the specific loss of man by the fall, in the theological 
sense, involving the difference between the Roman 
Catholic anthropology and the Protestant, see Image 
of God ; Justification; Sin. In this place we give 
the views of various writers as to the general doctrinal 
significance of the narrative. 

Lange {On Genesis, Am. ed., p. 73 sq.) remarks that 
“the significance of Paradise is this, that it declares 
the original ideal state of the earth and the human 
race, the unity of the particular and the general, the 
unity of spirit and nature, the unity of spiritual inno- 
cence and the physical harmony of nature, the unity 
of the fall and the disturbance of nature ; lastly, the 
unity of the facts and their symbolical meaning, which 
both the barely literal and mythical explanations of 

the record rend asunder The tree of knowledge 

of good and evil existed in some one form, but with it 
all nature is in some measure designated as a test. 


But the serpent, as the organ of that temptation, is 
not only the type of temptation and of sin, but, as orig- 
inalty a worm, the t} T pe of its brutality, its degrada- 
tion, and its subjection. The record of the actual fall 
st mds there as an eternal judgment upon the theoret- 
ical, the human, view of moral evil, especially upon 
the errors of Dualism and Manicheism, Pelagianism 
and Pantheism. Hence arise the numerous and strong 
objections which the most diverse systems in old and 
modern times have raised against this record. The 
earthly origin of evil out of the abuse of freedom of- 
fends dualism, which derives it from an evil deity, 
from dark matter, or from the supremacy of sense. 
Although the serpent sustains the doctrine that, prior 
to the fall of man, sin had existed in a sphere on the 
other side, working through dannoniac agency upon this 
| (for the serpent was not created evil, Gen. i, 25 ; gen- 
erally not even fitted for evil, and can only be regard- 
ed, therefore, as the organ of a far different evil pow- 
er), yet the visible picture of the tall in this sphere is a 
certain sign that the fall in that sphere could only have 
risen through the abuse of the freedom of the creature. 
But if we observe the progress of sin from the first 
sin of Eve to the fratricide of Cain ; if we view the op* 
position between Cain and Abel, and the intimation 
I of the moral freedom of Cain himself, so the Align s- 
| tinian view, raising original sin to absolute original 
death, receives its illumination and its just limits. But 
how every Pelagian view of life falls before this rec- 
ord, as it brings into prominence the causal connection 
between the sin of the spirit world and that of man, 
between the sin of the woman and the man, between 
the sin of our first parents, and their own sinfulness, 
and the sinfulnesss of their posterity ! If we take into 
view the stages of the development of evil in the gen- 
esis of the first sin, how limited and vapid appears the 
modern view, which regards the senses as the prime 
st irting-point of evil ! But when Pantheism asserts 
the necessity of sin, or rather of the fall, as the neces- 
sary transition of men from the state of pure inno- 
cence to that of conscious freedom, the simple remark 
that the ingenuousness of Adam would have been car- 
ried directly on in the proper way if he had stood the 
test, just as Christ through his sinlessness has reached 
the knowledge of the true distinction between good 
and evil, and has actually shown that sin, notwith- 
standing its inweaving with human nature, does not 
belong to its very being, clearly refutes the assertion. 
But how clear is the explanation of evil, of punish- 
ment, and of judgment, as it meets ns in this account! 
that the natural evil does not belong to the moral, but, 
notwithstanding its inward connection with it, is still 
the divine counteracting force against it; that punish- 
ment is to redeem and purify; that from the very 
acme of the judgment breaks forth the promise and 
salvation. These truths, which are far above every 
high anti-Christian view of the world, m/ike it appar- 
ent that the first judgment of God, as a type of the 
world-redeeming judgment of God, has found its com- 
pletion in the death of Christ upon the cross.” “The 
deceptive promise of the serpent was fulfilled : man’s 
eyes were opened (ch. iii, 7), but he saw only his mis- 
ery and nakedness. He was now brought to know 
good and evil, but with the painful consciousness of 
having trifled with and lost the one, and of being sunk 
in the depths of woe by the other. He had become as 
a god ; he had boldly cast off all allegiance to the one 
God, and assnmed sovereignty over himself. He had 
constituted himself a God, no longer the representa- 
tive of God ; lie had become his own master, free as 
God ; but this likeness to God brought not with it the 
happiness which pertains to the divine Being, but was 
fraught with the deepest misery and woe” (Kurtz, Bi- 
ble and Astronomy , p. 171). Muller, after affirming that 
“ there is really nothing in the narrative of the fall 
obliging us to consider that event as the primary be- 
ginning of sin, in the strict sense of the word,” adds 


FALL OF MAN 


474 


FALL OF MAN 


“that neither ‘the image of God,’ wherein man was 
created, nor God's pronouncing everything ‘very good,’ 
prevents our believing that the fall was only the out- 
ward manifestation of a perversion of the will preced- 
ing the empirical life of man — the outgo of an evil al- 
ready present in potentia , which might, indeed, by a 
persevering effort, have been crushed, but which forms 
the basis of an original moral depravity in human na- 
ture. The endeavor of the tempter was to bring out 
to view, and into action, this hidden evil” ( Doctrine of 
Sin , Edinb. 18G8, ii, 385). ’I bis view of Muller’s rests 
upon his theory of a sin of man in some pre-existent 
state, which he calls a “self-determination of the trans- 
cendental freedom before our individual existence.” 
Rothe, on the other hand ( Ethik , ii, 180), places the es- 
sence of sin chiefly in the necessity of matter. “The 
passage through sin, in his opinion, is a metaphysical 
necessity. lie conceives of our first parents not as 
mature at their creation, but destined to spiritual de- 
velopment ; consequently their material part, in the 
absence of training, must gain the upper hand ; and 
imperceptibly, and without blame, they found them- 
selves, by their development, in sin. Hence evil lies 
in the divine world-plan, not merely as something per- 
mitted ; it lies unavoidably in the creature, on account 
of his origin — in the fact of his coming into existence in 
contradistinction from God; but as creature-evil has 
been ordained in the plan of the world, so'also has its 
destruction, as it may come to light. Rothe (p. 204) 
openly declares that the ‘effort to separate evil from 
all connection with the divine causality must ever re- 
main an idle undertaking;’ although even he himself, 
in a measure startled at this result, imagines himself 
to hold the causation of human sin entirely apart from 
God. He says: ‘The divine production of evil is at 
the same time its absolute destruction. Within the 
sphere of redemption the necessity of sinning is not 
entirely removed, but is conceived of as constantly 
vanishing.’ ” 

In opposition to Muller and Rothe, as well as to all 
who presuppose evil as fundamental and its develop- 
ment ns necessary, Pastor Rinck wrote an able article, 
Von dem Ursprung des Bbsen , in the Theol. Studiin u. 
Kritiken for 1*52 (p. G51 sq. ; translated by Dr. Xadal 
in the Methodist Quarterly, October, 1853), from which 
we make the following extract. After stating that it 
matters not, for this discussion, whether the Scripture 
narrative be literal or figurative, he states its substan- 
tial import as follows: “God caused the tree of life 
and the tree of knowledge of good and evil to grow up 
ill the midst of the garden, and commanded man, ‘Of 
the tree of knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not 
eat ; for in the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt sure- 
ly die.’ This tree of knowledge, as planted by God, 
is not yet evil, but contains in itself the choice betuaen 
good and evil — the innate possibility of sinning, which 
possibility is bound up with the very conception of a 
free being, whose liberty is not the divine necessity, 
but lies outside of it. It is a tree of divine commands 
and prohibitions — objectively conceived, the object of 
knowledge; or, subjectively, the possibility of trans- 
gressing the command, the object of free choice. 
Alongside of this stands the tree of life ; and both are 
united to prove that the mere possibility of evil, which 
is involved in the creation of man, is not yet anything 
evil or death-bringing. Only with the realization of 
the possibility does opposition to the tree of life arise, 
i. e. the true life is forfeited, and death, curse, and de- 
struction appear in its place. The tree of life, which 
the living (iod had planted for man, and his expressed 
will not to eat of the tree of knowledge, presuppose 
the possibility of not transgressing, because God could 
neither require anything impossible of man, nor in- 
volve him inextricably in the meshes of a scheme 
which would certainly exclude him from the tree of 
life. The origin of evil from absolute good must for- 
ever remain inconceivable ; not so with relative good. 


If we hold fast to this difference, the objection of Rothe 
will not hold : ‘ The religious-moral perfection of the 
first parents of our race would exclude all psycholog- 
ical possibility of the fall.’ But this possibility is ex- 
plained by the creation of man, who, as it were, stands 
out of God ; not holy and perfect like God, and yet 
not a mere creature like the beast : he is not under 
and in the law of necessity, but possesses the likeness 
of God and freedom. The perfection of a creature is 
not divine, not absolute. The want of such perfection 
in a creature casts no shadow upon the Creator. Ac- 
cording to the doctrines of Emanation and Pantheism, 
w hich mix God and the world, the fall cannot be ex- 
plained, but only according to the doctrines of God 
and of the creation. When, then, by the creation, 

; God set free beings out of himself, then the possible 
departure from God was given, and the question, 
Wherefore did not God hinder the evil that he fore- 
saw ? is entirely inadmissible. God does not prevent 
evil, because by so doing, contrary to his own will, he 
w ould injure and destroy the province of freedom (the 
divine image). Thus our Saviour did not hinder the 
murderous blows of his enemies, while at the same 
time he did not will or excuse them. In like man- 
ner, God was Lord over the parents of our race and 
over the serpent; but if he bv his own will restrained 
his highest power, and left free play-room to free cre- 
ated beings, and still retains the government, he is not 
therefore destitute of power, but only consistent, and 
worthy to be adored. Man should rather complain 
of himself, but give thanks to God that he has endow- 
ed him with such prerogatives, and glorify him with 
soul and 1 odv, which are God’s. There was no neces- 
sity at all to sin; that complaint can only tc estab- 
lished on the ground that, as Rothe teaches, evil inev- 
itably developed itself. Besides, from the beginning 
of the world God had provided for the human race, 
whose fall he foresaw', the most perfect means of grace 
and gifts, in order to make that injury abundantly 
good, and to lead back the fallen ones to himself and 
his kingdom. Indeed, as all evil, so also must the 
sin of our first parents redound to the praise of the 
merciful God, .because by it w’as conditioned the mis- 
sion of the second Adam as the Redeemer of the world. 
But the possibility of the fall w ithout blame to the Cre- 
ator being admitted, another question arises : T h rough 
what incitement did it become a reality ? Even to this 
question the Scriptures give a satisfactory answer: it 
took place through outward prompting — through evil 
spiritual influence, which was already existing in cre- 
ation. Upon the basis of a created but still spiritual 
existence, the possibility of being moved and poisoned 
by an influence at enmity with God must he admitted. 
The inexperience of our first parents, w ho w ere not 
isolated in the new world, corresponded exactly with 
the subtlety of Satan in the form of a serpent. The 
kingdom of Satan, as a spiritual power, and the pecca- 
bility of the first pair, whose pure self-determination 
was ensnared and obscured through that power, fur- 
nish a satisfactory explanation of the fall. The fall 
itself was certainly a free self-determination, other- 
wise no blame could attach to it ; but not altogether 
so : both the decision and the guilt were shared by the 
devil, as the murderer from the beginning: it was a 
co-operation of human freedom with the temptation of 
the evil principle itself. But, according to the Scrip- 
ture account, the temptation of our first parents was 
gradual, and the motives to the fall are thus psycho- 
logically clear. First of all, the serpent raised a doubt 
concerning the divine prohibition and the ruinous con- 
sequences of sin: ‘Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not 
cat of every tree of the garden ?’ ‘Ye shall net sure- 
ly die.’ Then he awakened pride, inducing man to 
overleap his appointed condition to become like God, 
and to use his freedom arbitrarily, and according to 
his own pleasure : * God dotli know that in the day 
ye eat thereof then your e} r es shall be opened, and 


475 


FALLOW-DEER 


FALL OF MAX 

ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.’ After 
this preparation came the thought that the tree was 
good for food, pleasant to look upon, and to be desired 
to make one wise. The sensual desire would now 
naturally start up, and the woman seduced became the 
seducer. The powers of the soul were corrupted be- 
fore the actual sin took place ; the faculty of knowl- 
edge by doubt and unbelief toward God, the faculty of 
desire through unbounded striving and proud excess, 
as the Grecian fable of Prometheus represents it; and, 
finally, the faculty of feeling, through sensual longing, 
which propensity the religion of the Greeks sets forth 
by Epimetheus and Pandora. Thus did the possibil- 
ity of the fall, which rests upon the freedom of the 
creature, pass over into reality under evil outward in- 
fluences. The conversation between Eve and the ser- 
pent shows how accessible she was; the woman, as 
the weaker part, is first approached and misled, and 
not till then the man, and even then only through her ; 
as also the apostle Paul expresses it (1 Tim. ii, 14), 
the woman was first in the transgression. Itothe, 
indeed (p. 221), thinks that the assumption of a satan- 
ical temptation does not at all help the difficulty, be- 
cause that assumption always presupposes a real sus- 
ceptibility of being tempted, a sinful predisposition, a 
minimum of sin. But the possibility of being tempted 
to sin is not yet sin ; with Bothe that predisposition is 
rather something already existing. It is certainly 
much more worthy of God to conceive of his creatures 
as pure and good— they first determining themselves 
to evil, and the enemy active therein. If even the 
Son of God could be tempted without injury to his sin- 
lessness, much more the first Adam, whose personality 
and divine resemblance were specifically lower. If, 
in fine, we compare the scriptural theory, thus under- 
stood, with the modern philosophical explanations of 
the fall, the result will be that the former will be found 
to contain incomparably more truth and wisdom Ilian 
the latter; although liothe (p. 221) is of the opinion 
that the Biblical account of the fall can no longer be 
maintained, and that the fall cannot be explained from 
the Mosaic stand-point. Only the Bible (and perhaps, 
agreeing with it, the mythology of antiquity) tells us 
of a man created in the image of God, in a paradisiacal 
state of innocence ; and, in accordance with this fact, 
shows how this state was interrupted and perverted 
into one of guilt. Dr. Julius Muller, on the contrary, 
although Paradise has still a place in his system, 
places Adam in it as already a sinner. In the same 
way Botlie presupposes what he ought to show, since 
he assumes evil as original and necessary in the devel- 
opment of the world. We cannot see. either accord- 
ing to Muller or Botlie, w lienee it could properly come 
into the natural world. Botlie, with his presupposi- 
tion, is obliged to assume one of two things : either he 
must dualistically establish an evil principle in matter, 
and deny the pure creation of God, or he must ascribe 
the origin of sin, not to the perverted will, but to God 
himself: in both cases he has a Maniclncan life-view 
of sentient beings. Sin with him is not a free act of 
man, proceeding out of the heart and will ; it springs 
from the overmatching power of material nature sub- 
duing his personality with inevitable necessity (p. 
22G). ‘The origin of evil from pure good must for- 
ever remain inconceivable’ (p. 222) ; thus lie estab- 
lishes an impure material creation. Is anything ex- 
plained by this means ? Whence conies, then, im- 
purity into the material creation before all acts of the 
will ? Is not the question more easily explained by 
the abuse of freedom than by metaphysics ; more easi- 
ly through the devil and man than by the act of the 
Creator? The fall, according to the doctrine of the 
Church, says Bothe (p. 220), was a. blunder in the 
work of the earthly creation, as it were, at the begin- 
ning. In order to avoid this, either an evil principle 
must have been co-operative in the creation, or else 
God himself must have ruined his own work at its 


commencement. Shall we call this escaping the blun- 
der made at the beginning? Is it not rather increas- 
ing it, and carrying it over into the region of the per- 
fect and the holy ? The latter of these two opinions, 
strictly taken, is that of Bothe, since he assumes mat- 
ter as created by God, and from matter deduces sin. 
But the positions, Matter was created by God, and 
Matter is the opposite of God, and hence the origin of 
sin, contradict each other.” 

Literature. — Besides the hooks already cited in this 
article, see Hagenbach, History of Doctrines ; Neander, 
History of Dogmas; Shedd, History of Christian Doc- 
trine (all under Anthropology) ; Ilase, Evang.- Protest. 
Dcgmatik , Lips. 18G0, § 71-73 ; Fletcher, Appeal to Mat- 
ter of Fact and Common Sense ; Doderlein, Inst. Theol. 
Christ. § 178 ; Fairbairn, Typologg of Scripture , i, 240 
sq. ; Bichers, Schopf ungsgeschichte (Leips. 1854, 8vo) ; 
Middleton, Essay on the Creation and Fall of Man , 
Word's (1755, 5 vols.), iii, 437 sq. ; Zeller, Die diteste 
Theodicee (Jena, 1803, 8vo); Coleridge, Aids to Reflec- 
tion , lntr. GG; Cunningham, Historical Theology , vol. i, 
ch. xix; Deditzscli, Biblical Psychology (Edinb. 18G7), 
p. 147 sq. ; Monsell, The Religion of Redemption (Loud. 
18G7), p. 20 sq. ; Meth. Qnar. Revieic , Oct. 18G7, art. vii. 

On the effects of the fall on nature, see Nature. 

Fallow-deer (^’srp, yachmur ; Sept. fiovfiaXoQ 
[but copKag in 1 Kings], Vulg. bubedus), mentioned 
among the beasts that may be eaten in Deut. xiv, 5, 
and among the provisions for Solomon’s table in 1 
Kings iv, 23 [Heb. v, 3]. There are three animals of 
the Cervidce family with which different writers have 
identified it. See Zoology. 

1. Most commentators (following Bochart, Hieroz. 
i, 910; ii, 2G0) regard it as properly translated in our 
version, deriving the word from "iptl, chamcir\ in the 
sense of being red , and thus referring it to a species of 
deer of a reddish color ; probably the Cervus dama of 
Linnaeus, originally a native of Barbary, where it is 
still found wild. It is stated to be found very gener- 
ally dispersed over Western and Southern Asia, and 
is said to have been introduced into England from 
Norway (see Penny Cyclopaedia, s. v. Deer). It is 
smaller than the stag (Cervus elu pints), having horns 
or branches serrated on the inside, which it sheds an- 
nually. The color in winter is a darkish brown, but 
in summer bay, spotted with white. The fallow-deer 



Common Fallow-deer. 


(Cervus dama) is deemed by most authorities to be un- 
doubtedly' a native of Asia; indeed, Persia seems to 
be its proper country. Ilasselquist (Trav. p. 211) no- 
ticed this deer in Mount Tabor. Oedmann (Veion. 


FALLOW GROUND 


476 


FAMA CLAMOSA 


Samml . i, 178) likewise believes that the yachmur is 
best denoted by the Ccrvus dama. The female is call- 
ed in the Talmud SO 5 ! -H?, ami is identified by Lewv- 
solm with the German Damhirsch. It is, however, 
difficult to suppose that Jerusalem could have received 
any appreciable amount of flesh-meat from such a 
source, remote as it is from a forest country. See 
Deer. 

2. Kitto {Piet. Bill Dent. 1. e.) says, “ The yach- 
mur of the Hebrews is without doubt erroneously 
identified with the fallow-deer, which does not exist in 
Asia,” and refers the name to the Oryx leueoryx , citing 
Niebuhr as authority for stating that this animal is 
known among the Eastern Arabs by the name of yaz - 
mur. This is the opinion which •we have adopted, 
from Hamilton Smith, who is the best modern author- 
ity on such questions. See Antelope. 

3. Still others, on the authority of the Septuagint 
rendering in Deuteronomy, regard the term as deno- 
ting “ the Antilope bubalus (Pallas) ; the jSovfiaXot; of 
the Greeks (see Ilerod. iv, 192; Aristotle, Hist. Anim. 
iii, 6, ed. Schneider, and De Part . Anim. iii, 2, 11, edit. 
Bekker; Oppian, Cyn. ii, 300). From the different de- 
scriptions of the yachmur as given by Arabian writ- 
ers, and cited by Bochart {Ilieroz. ii, 284 sq.), it would 
also seem that this is the animal designated ; though 
Damir’s remarks in some respects are fabulous, and 
he represents the yachmur as having deciduous horns, 
which will not apply to any antelope. Still Cazui- 
uus, according to Hosenraiiller, identifies the yachmur 



Antilope Diibalus. 

with the belcher el-trash (‘wild cow’), which is the mod- 
ern name in North Africa for the Antilope bubalus (see 
Shaw’s Travels , p. 242, and Suppl. p. 75, fol. ; Buffon, 
Hist. Xatur. xii, 294). The term bubalus evidently 
points to some animal having the general appearance 
of an ox. Pliny (jV. II. viii, 15) tells us that the com- 
mon people, in their ignorance, sometimes gave this 
name to the Bison {Aurorfi) and the Crus. He adds, 
the animal properly so called is produced in Africa, 
and hears a resemblance to the calf and the stag; a 
middle position between the cervine and bovine rumi- 
nants that corresponds to the external appearance of 
the animal in question. The belcher cl-irash appears to 
l>e depicted in the Egyptian monuments [see Chase], 
where it is represented as being hunted for the sake 
of its flesh, w hich Shaw’ tells us (Suppl. p. 75) is very 
sweet and nourishing, much preferable to that of the 
rod deer (see Wilkinson’s A ne. Egypt, i, 223, figs. 3, 4, 
and p. 225, fig. 19). This animal, which is about the 
size of a stag, is common in North Africa, and lives in 
herds" (Smith, s. v.). See WtLn Ox. 

Fallow ground (“*:, nir, broken up with the 


i plough), a field (especially of sward) just ploughed 
(figuratively, Jer. iv, 3; Hos. x, 12; literally, “til- 
lage" Prov. xiii, 23). See Agriculture. 

Fallow year. Among the Hebrew’s every sev- 
enth year w r as a sabbath of rest to the land. The 
I commencement of this year was on the first day of the 
seventh month, Tisri= October. There was neither 
sowing nor reaping; the vines and the olives were 
not pruned; there was no gathering of fruits; for all 
spontaneous productions were left to the poor, the 
traveller, and the wild beast (Lev. xxv, 1-7 ; Deut. 
xv', 1-10). The sabbatical year was instituted in or- 
j del* that the land might be improved, and that the 
Hebrews might be taught economj’ and foresight, and 
I also invited to exercise a large degree of trust in the 
j providence of Jehovah their king. During this year 
they could fish, hunt, take care of their bees and flocks, 
repair their buildings, manufacture furniture and 
cloths, and cany on commerce. Debts, on account of 
there being no income from the soil, were not collected 
(Deut. xv, 9 ; xxxi, 10-13). Nor were servants man- 
umitted on this year, but at the end of the sixth year 
of their service (Exod. xxi, 2; Dent, xv, 12; Jer. 
xxxiv, 14). The Hebrews remained longtr in the 
tabernacle or temple this year, during which the 
whole Mosaic law was read, in order to be instructed 
in religious and moral duties, the history of their na- 
tion, and the wonderful works and blessings of God 
(Deut. xxxi, 10-13). When Jehovah gave the He- 
brews this remarkable institute, in order to guard them 
against the apprehension of famine, he premised, on 
the condition of their obedience, so great plenty in 
every sixth harvest that it alone would suffice for 
three years (Lev. xxv, 20-22). However, through the 
avarice of the Hebrews, this seventh year’s rest, as 
Moses had apprehended (Lev. xxvi, 3d, 35), was for a 
long time utterly neglected (2 Chron. xxxvi, 21); for 
in all the history of the Hebrew' kings there is no men- 
tion of the sabbatical year, nor of the year of jubilee. 
The period when this wise and advantageous law fell 
into disuse inav probably be understood from the pre- 
diction of Moses in Lev. xxvi, 33, 34, 43; comp, with 
2 Chron. xxxvi, 21; Jer. xxv, 11. Thus was it fore- 
told that the Hebrews, for the violation of this law, 
should go into captivity: “To fulfil the word of the 
Lord bv the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had 
paid off' her sabbaths: for as long as she lay desolate 
she kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and ten years." 
Here it is taken for granted that seventy sabbatical 
years, including the jubilee years which succeeded ev- 
ery seventh sabbatical year, had been neglected by 
the unfaithful people. The Hebrews were frequently 
weary of the law’ ; and at different periods during the 
commonwealth they appear to have utterly neglected 
the fallow' or sabbatical years. Hence it appears that 
the captivity of the Hebrews and the desolation of 
their country w r as an act of retributive Providence, 
brought upon them for this very reason, that the land 
might pay off' those sabbatical years of rest, of which 
the Hebrews had deprived it, in neglecting the statute 
of Jehovah their king (Lev. xxvi, 43). After the ex- 
ile the fallow or sabbatical year appears to have been 
more scrupulously observed, as we learn from Jose- 
phus {Ant. xi, 11, 8). See Judilee. 

False Prophet {dstvco7 rpo0i}n/c> a pseudo-proph- 
et), i. e. one falsely professing to come as a prophet or 
ambassador from God, a false teacher (Matt, vii, 15; 
xxiv, 11, 24, etc. ; comp. Test, xii Patr. p. G14 ; Jose- 
phus, Ant. viii, 13, 1; x, 7, 3; War, vi, 5, 2). See 
Prophet. In Lev. xvi, 13, the term is distinctively 
used, u the false prophet," with reference to the mytho- 
logical system of paganism, the second “ beast" (q.v.), 
supporting the first or secular power of Pome ; allegor- 
ically interpreted of the impostor Mohammed (Mat- 
thes, De pseudoprophetismo Ilebrceorum, L. B. 1859, 8vo). 

Fama clamosa {general bad report), in the Scot- 



477 


FAMILISTS 


FAMILIA CHARITATIS 


tisli ecclesiastical law, is a ground of action before a 
presbytery or synod against a minister or member of 
the Church, founded on common report, and not a 
charge by accusation. If the rumor, or fama clamosa , 
be general and hurtful, the court can investigate it 
without any accuser, for the vindication of the charac- 
ter of the Church and of the court, and with a view to 
the preservation of good morals in the community. 
See Hill, Church Practice, p. 40. 

Familia Charitatis. See Familists. 

Familiars of the Inquisition, officers of that 
tribunal whose function it is to apprehend accused or 
suspected persous and convey them to prison. They 
belong to the family of the inquisitor, and are there- 
fore called familiars . The office was formerly held in 
high honor, and men of noble family often held it, es- 
pecially in Spain. Innocent III granted large indul- 
gences to familiars. The same plenary indulgence is 
granted by 7 the pope to each exercise of this office as 
was granted by the Lateran Council to those who suc- 
cored the lloly Land. “ When several persons are to 
be taken up at the same time, these familiars are com- 
manded to order matters that they may know nothing 
of one another’s being apprehended ; and it is related 
that a father and his three sons and three daughters, 
who lived together in the same house, were carried 
prisoners to the Inquisition without knowing anything 
of one another’s being there till seven years after- 
wards,” when those that were alive were released by 
an Auto da Fe. See Inquisition. 

Familiar Spirit (31 X, ob, a leathern bottle or wa- 
ter-skin, Job xxxii, 19; hence, the conjurer, being re- j 
garded as the vessel containing the inspiring dfemon), 
a necromancer, or sorcerer who professes to call up the 
dead by means of incantations, to answer questions 
(Dcut. xviii, 11 ; 2 Kings xxi, G; 2 Chron. xxxiii, G; 
Lev. xix, 31 ; xx, 6 ; 1 Sam. xxviii, 3, 9 ; Isa. viii, 19 ; 

xix, 3). Put also specially for the python (Acts xvi, 
1G) or divining-spirit, by the aid of which such jug- 
glers were supposed to conjure (Lev. xx, 27 ; 1 Sam. 
xxviii, 7, 8), and for the shade or departed spirit thus 
evoked (Isa. xxix, 4). See Divination. The term 
is rendered by the Septuagint tyyaoTpipvOog, “a ven- 
triloquist,” but is rather a wizard who asked counsel 
of his familiar, and gave the responses received from 
him to others — the name being applied in reference to 
the spirit or darnon that animated the person, and in- 
flated the belly so that it protuberated like the side 
of a bottle. Or it was applied to the magician, because 
he was supposed to be inflated by the spirit (diupov- 
o\})7rr6i;'), like the ancient EApufcAat; (f ig dWorptag 
y a art pa g tvdug, At. Vesp. 1017, malum spiritual per ve- 
renda natures, exdpiebat ; Schol. in Ar. Plut.). The ob 
of the Hebrews was thus precisely the same as the. py- 
tho of the Greeks (Plutarch, I)e def. Or. 414 ; Cicero, 
De div. i, 19), and was used not only to designate the 
performer, but the spirit itself, wvcVfia klvihovoq, which 
possessed him (see Levit. xx, 27 ; 1 Sam. xxviii, 8 ; 
also Acts xvi, 16). A more specific denomination of 
this last term was the necromancer (literally 7 seeker of 
the dead , 3'K bxb', Deut. xviii, 10; comp, bx 'p'rnb 

01ie w h°» h y frequenting tombs, by inspect- 
ing corpses, or, more frequently, by help of the ob, like 
the witch of Endor, pretended to evoke the dead, and 
bring secrets from the invisible world (Gen. xli, 8 ; 
Exod. vii, 11 ; Lev. xix, 2G ; Dent, xviii, 10-12). Com- 
pare the whisperers (“charmers”), of Isa. xix, 

3. But Shuckford, who denies that the Jews in early 
ages believed in spirits, makes it mean “consulters of 
dead idols” ( Connect . ii, 395). These ventriloquists 
“peeped and muttered” (compare rpiZtiv, Homer, II. 
xxiii, 101 ; “squeak and gibber,” Shaksp. Jul. Ciesar) 
from the earth to imitate the voice of the revealing 
“familiar” (Isa. xxix, 4, etc. ; 1 Sam. xxviii, 8 ; Lev. 

xx, 27 ; compare orepvopavng, Soph. Frag.'). Of this 


[ class was the witch of Endor (Josephus, Ant. vi, 14, 2), 
in whose case intended imposture may have been over- 
ruled into genuine necromancy (Ecclus. xlvi, 20). On 
this wide subject, see Chiysostom ad 1 Cor. xii ; Ter- 
tullian, adv. Marc, iv, 25; De Anima, p* 57 ; Augustine, 
De doctr. Christ. § 33 ; Cicero, 7' use. Disp. i, 1G, and the 
commentators on FEn. vi ; Critici Sacri, vi, 331 ; Le 
Moyne, Var. Sacr. p. 993 sq. ; Selden, De Diis Syr. i, 
2; and, above all, Bottcher, De Jnferis , p. 101-121, 
where the research displayed is marvellous. Those 
who sought inspiration, either from the daemons or the 
spirits of the dead, haunted tombs and caverns (Isa. 
lxv, 4), and invited the unclean communications by 
voluntary fasts (Maimon. De Idol, ix, 15; Lightfoot, 
Hor. Ileb. ad Matt, x, 1). That the supposed ipi>xo/itav- 
rtia was often effected by ventriloquism and illusion is 
certain ; for a specimen of this even in modem times, 
see the Life of Benvenuto Cellini. Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. See Necromancer. 

Closely 7 connected with this form of divination are 
the two following: (1.) “DTI, che'ber, a spell or en- 
chantment, by means of a cabalistic arrangement of 
certain words and implements (Dcut. xviii, 11; Isa. 
xlvii, 9, 12), spoken also of serpent-charming (Psa„ 
lviii, G). See Charming; Enchantment. (2.) Sor- 
cery (either wizard, knowing one, Lev. xix, 31 ; 

xx, G; Deut. xviii, 11; 1 Sam. xxviii, 3, 9; spoken 
also of the imp or spirit of divination by which they 
were supposed to be attended, Lev. xx, 27 ; or some 
form of r,133, kashaph' , to act the witch, literally'- by 
magic incantations, 2 Chron. xxiii, G ; Exod. vii, 11 ; 
Deut. xviii, 10; Dan. ii, 2, etc.), which signifies prac- 
tising divination by means of the black art, with an 
implied collusion with evil spirits ; applied usually to 
pretending to reveal secrets, to discover things lost, 
find hidden treasure, and interpret dreams. Sec Wiz- 
ard. 

Familists, Familia Charitatis, Family of 
Love, a sect founded in the lGth century by 7 Henry 
Nicholas, a native of Munster, in Westphalia, who, after 
residing for some time in Holland, went to England in 
the latter part of the reign of Edward VI, and there es- 
tablished (1552) his familia charitatis , or Unis des Lief- 
de (Strype’s Cranmer , ii, 410). His doctrines have of- 
ten been confounded with those of David Joris [see Jo- 
ris], which they resemble in many 7 respects, and gen- 
erally with those of the Anabaptists. His followers, 
however, published a Confession of Faith in 1575 (given 
in Strype, Annals, ii, 577), and soon after an Apology, 
in which they 7 attempt to prove the identity 7 of their 
doctrines with those of the evangelical Confessions. 
The characteristic feature *of this sect was a tendency 
to my 7 stic contemplation, and the belief that, through 
love, man could become absolutely 7 absorbed in and 
identified with God, in a subjective sense. Nicholas 
represented himself as the apostle of this “service of 
Love,” and it is said went so far as to claim superior- 
ity over Christ, on the ground that Moses only 7 preach- 
ed hope, Christ faith, but he preached love. The sect 
was accused of denying the divinity of Christ, and of 
even rejecting the divinity 7 of God himself, in its high- 
er attributes, by maintaining that man would, in this 
life, become identified with God. They, on the con- 
trary 7 , maintained in their Apology 7 their belief in the 
three general Christian creeds, and particularly in the- 
satisfaction rendered by 7 Christ, while they 7 merely 
claimed to emulate the state of life exhibited by 7 him. 
As they looked upon themselves as perfect, they 7 could 
not acknowledge the need of forgiveness, and stated in 
their Apology 7 that they 7 tried with all the heart to be- 
lieve and keep the commandments, leaving the rest to 
God, as the power of so doing could only 7 come from 
him. They 7 distinguished themselves from the Ana- 
baptists by their recognition of infant baptism, and by 
their indifference as to the external part of the estab- 
lished worship, which the Anabaptists assailed with esr 


FAMILY 


478 


FAMILY 


peeial violence. Nicholas, who at first kept prosely- I 
ting quietly, came out more boldly during the reign of 
Elizabeth, and announced himself as a prophet ap- 
pointed by the Lord, and anointed by the Holy Spirit. 
He is said to have been an uneducated man, vet ap- 
pears to have succeeded in gaining the ear of several 
theologians and persons of high rank. In 1580 Eliza- ^ 
both issued a proclamation against the sect, and direct- 
ed an inquiry to be made into their practices. They 
seem to have attracted considerable attention at that i 
period, and accusations of all kinds were brought for- 
ward against them. Their books were ordered to be 1 
burnt in October, 1580. In 1604 they presented a pe- 
tition to James I, to clear themselves from the imputa- 
tions laid against them. From this time their num- 
bers diminished, but they were not extinct even as late 
as 1645. King James 1, in his BamAucon cdjpov, calls 
them infamem anabaptistariwi sectam, quue fumilia am- 
oris vocutur. A person named Etherington was made 
to recant as a Familist in 1627 ; but he does not appear 
to have held precisely the same doctrine as the older 
Familists. See a curious book by J. It. (John Rogers), 
entitled The Displaying of an horrible Sect naming them - 
selves the FamVy of Love (Loud. 1579) ; and Knewstub, 
Confutation of monstrous and horrible Heresies taught by 
11. X. etc. (bond. 1579); Mosheim, Church History, c. 
xvi, § iii, pt. ii, § 25 ; Collier, Eccles. Ilist. of England , 
vi, 609; vii, 311 ; Hardwick, Reformation , chap. v. 

Family. The idea oftlie family (owroc), in Greece, 
was that of the nucleus of society, or of the state. 
“Aristotle speaks of it as the foundation of the state, 
and quotes Hesiod to the effect that the original fami- 
ly consisted of the wife and the laboring ox, which 
held, as he says, to the poor the position of the slave 
( Pulit . i, 1). The complete Greek family, then, con- 
sisted of the man, and his wife, and his slave ; the two 
latter, Aristotle says, never having been confounded 
in the same class by the Greeks, as by the barbarians 
(lb.'). In this form, the family was recognised as the 
model of the monarchy, the earliest, as well as the 
simplest, form of government. When, by the birth 
aiul growth of children, and the death of the father, 
the original family is broken tip into several, the heads 
of which stand to each other in a co-ordinate rather 
than a strictly subordinate position, we have in these 
the prototypes of the more advanced forms of govern- 
ment. Each brother, by becoming the bead of a sep- 
arate family, becomes a member of an aristocracy, or 
the embodiment of a portion of the sovereign power, 
as it exists in the separate elements of which a consti- 
tutional or a democratic government is composed. 
But at Rome the idea of the family was still more 
closely entwined with that of life in the state, and the 
natural power of the father was taken as the basis not 
only of the whole political, but of the whole social or- 
ganization of the people. Among the Romans, as 
with the Greeks, the family included the slave as well 
as the wife, and ultimately the children, a fact which, 
indeed, is indicated by the etymology of the word, 
which belongs to the same root as famulus, a slave. 
In its widest sense, the fumilia included even the in- 
animate possessions of the citizen, who, as the head 
of a house, was his own master (sui juris) ; and Gaius 
(ii, 102) uses it as synonymous with putiimoninm. In 
general, however, it was confined to persons — the wife, 
children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, if 
such there were, and slaves of a full-blown Roman 
citizen. Sometimes, too, it signified all those who 
had sprung from a common stock, and would have 
been members of the family, and under the potestas 
of a common ancestor, had lie been alive. In this 
sense, of course, the slaves belonging to the different 
members of the family were not included in it. It 
was a family, in short, in the sense in which we speak 
of ‘the roval family,’ etc., with this difference, that it 
was possible for an individual' to quit it, and to pass 
into another by adoption. Sometimes, again, the word 


was used with reference to slaves exclusively, and, pji- 
alogieally, to a sect of philosophers, or a body of gladi- 
ators.” See Smith’s Dictionary of Greek and Roman 
A ntiquities. 

The Christian family, on the contrary, is a commu- 
nion resting on an ethico-religious foundation, and 
forming the closest of all human relationships. It is 
a copy of the highest and most perfect union, that of 
the Church with Christ its head. Christianity, con- 
sidered as the true (ideal) family, wherein Christ’s 
power begets, through the Word and the Spirit, chil- 
dren of faith unto God, who mutually aid each other 
with their several spiritual gifts, is imaged in the 
natural family; imperfectly, indeed, since the life of 
the Christian family is yet a life in the flesh (Gal. ii, 
20); yet truly, because its bond of union is spiritual, 
being the spirit of Christ. The basis of the Christian 
family is Christian marriage, or monogamy, the ex- 
clusive union of one man to one woman. The deepest 
ground of this union, and its true aim, without which 
Christian marriage and family are impossible, is the 
consciousness of unity in Christ, or in the love of God 
in Christ, the source of individual sympathy, as well 
as of brotherly and universal love. Marriage has, in 
common with Christian friendship, the bond of tender 
sentiments; but the former is an exclusive bond be- 
tween two persons of different sexes, whose personal- 
ity is complemented, so to speak, by each other. It is 
therefore a lifelong relation, while friendship may be 
only temporary. See Marriage. 

Two persons thus joined in marriage lay the foun- 
dation of a Christian family ; indeed, they constitute 
a family, though yet incomplete and undeveloped. It 
awaits its completion in the birth of children. In 
proportion, however, as the married couple live in a 
state of holiness, so are the natural desires for issue 
and their gratification made subservient to the divine- 
ly ordered end of the marriage, and accompanied by a 
sense of dependence on the will and blessing of God. 
And in order duly to attain this higher end of the fam- 
ily, it is necessary that, keeping the merely carnal 
passions subordinate, both husband and wife should 
endeavor to subserve each other’s moral and spiritual 
compdeteness ; and also that they should, when children 
are born, faithfully help each other in training them 
properly, by the combination of their particular dispo- 
sitions, the father's sternness being tempered with the 
mother’s gentleness, and the mother’s tenderness en- 
ergized by the father’s authority. The children should 
see the unity between the father and the mother, in 
their unity of aim, though manifested according to their 
different dispositions. Early baptism should be fol- 
lowed b} T careful religious training. In this the moth- 
er has a certain priority, inasmuch as, aside from giv- 
ing her children birth, she is also first in giving them 
the bodily and spiritual eare they require. Yet even 
in this early pieriod she derives assistance from the 
husband, who, as the head of the family, counsels, 
strengthens, and assists her. In after years their rel- 
ative shares in the education of the children become 
more equalized, the sons coming, however, more under 
the influence of the* father, while the daughters remain 
more under the mother’s. Those who wish theirs to 
he a real Christian family must from the first incul- 
cate on their children (aside from the habit of absolute, 
unquestioning obedience to the parental authority as 
divinely instituted) the true ground of obedience, as 
laid in obedience to God, springing from love to God. 
“ The order in which the love of the child graduates is 
from the stage of instinctive love to mrral affection, 
and from tins to the love of its heavenly Parent. De- 
sirous as the parents may he to lead its affections up 
at once to the Creator, the previous stages of the path 
must first he passed through. For a while the mater- 
nal care is the only Providence it knows; and the fa- 
ther’s experience is to it a v r orld of grand enter- 
prise, and of power unlimited. In vain it strives to 


FAMILY 


479 


FAMINE 


climb the height of his knowledge — his virtual omnis- 
cience ; nor can it eoneeive of a diviner guarantee than 
his promise. To see its parents bend in worship, and 
to hear them speak with holy awe of their Father in 
heaven, is itself solemn and suggestive as a ladder set 
up from earth to heaven. The wise discipline, too, 
which leads the parent kindly to repress its sellish de- 
sires, and constantly to aim at its mo’al welfare, in- 
variably begets in return the highest order of tilial 
love and confidence ; evincing the power of the child 
to discriminate between instinctive and moral affec- 
tion, and preparing it to embrace that heavenly Parent 
of whom the earthly is but an imperfect representa- 
tion. And let the parents remark that, from the mo- 
ment they begin to point their child to God as an ob- 
ject of reverence and love, they are pursuing the certain 
course for augmenting its moral affection for them- 
selves ; while its intelligent love for them is a valuable 
means and a pledge for its ascending to the love of 
God” (Harris, Patriarchy, nr the Family, p. 352). This 
divine liberty, based on fear and love, far from dimin- 
ishing the respectful love of the children for their par- 
ents, will exalt and purify it, and bring it to its- high- 
est degree of perfection ; it will make it become part 
of their religion, and whenever a collision may occur 
between the parental wishes and the will of God, it 
will lead the children, while obeying the latter, to 
cherish all possible reverence and respect for the for- 
mer. By this personal development of their spiritual 
life the sons and daughters will become friends to their 
parents ; a higher kind of trust, such as is felt in one's 
equals, is thus reached, without diminishing the re- 
spect which is the duty of the child and the right of 
the parents. This is the true graduation of the Chris- 
tian family life, in which the elder children become 
helps to the parents for the education of the younger, 
while at the same time they become more thoroughly 
fitted to fulfil their own duties as heads of families in 
after life. Where the blessing of children has been 
denied, it can in some measure, though not complete- 
ly, find a substitute in the adoption of orphans or 
other children, and then the duties towards these are 
the same as towards one's own. 

The Christian family includes also what heathen 
Home called the family in a subordinate sense — the 
servun's. Their position, wherever the principles of 
Christian humanity prevail, is not one of slavery, but 
is a free moral relation, entered into by the consent 
of both parties, and giving each peculiar rights and 
duties. The Christian, penetrated with the spirit of 
his Master, will not lose sight of the fact that this 
spirit inclined Him much more to serve others than to 
have them serve Him, and he will not be satisfied by 
rewarding his servants with wages only, but with all 
the spiritual blessings of which the family is the prop- 
er sphere. They should take part in the family wor- 
ship, and even an active part, as in reading, singing, 
praying. The more they come to take part in the life 
of the family, in its interests, its joys, its griefs, and 
receive from it the sympathy and help they require, 
either for the body or the mind, the more does the 
general family lead a really Christian life. 

The entire life of the Christian family is a continu- 
ous act of worship in the more extended sense of the 
word, and must gradually become more and more so, 
since ail its actions are done in the name of Christ 
and for the glory of God. This thoroughly Christian 
conduct is, however, sustained and strengthened I)}" 
the family worship in the proper sense, in which the 
family, as such, seeks for strength in the Word and in 
the Spirit of God. The more perfectly this family 
worship is organized, the more will it resemble public 
worship, consisting, like it, in the reading and ex- 
pounding of Scripture, singing, and prayer. The 
leader in the religious exercises of the family should 
be the father, as priestly head of the house. This, 
however, is not to exclude the co-operation of the 


mother, children, and other members of the family; 
their participation, on the contrary, adds much to the 
interest of the service, and makes it an admirable sup- 
plement to public worship, as in the family the feeling 
of trust in each other and of self-dependenee add much 
to liberty in prayer. This constitutes the true hearth 
of the family, the centre around which all meet again, 
from whence they derive light and warmth, and whose 
genial influences will be felt through life. From the 
bosom of such a family the spirit of Christianity goes 
out with its healthful influence into the Church, the 
school, the state, and even the whole world. 

See generally the writers on moral philosophy and 
Christian ethics, and especially Herzog, Real-Ency - 
klopddie iv, 318; llothe, Theolog. Etkik , iii, G05; SehafV, 
Apostolical Age, § 111 ; Harris, Patnarchy, or the Earn - 
i f y (Loud. 1855, 8vo) ; Anderson, Genius and Design of 
the Domestic Constitution (Edinb. 182G, 8vo) ; Thiersch, 
Ueber christliches Familienleben (4th ed. Frankf. 1850 ; 
translated into several languages). 

Family, Holy. One of the most favorite themes 
of Christian art, from its earliest period in the Cata- 
combs, has been the presentation of scenes from the 
infancy and childhood of the Saviour. The name 
“holy family” is given especially to those paintings 
and sculptures in whieh the parents, Joseph and 
Man', are worshipping the infant Saviour, or are hold- 
ing him up for the adoration of spectators. In a wider 
sense, it is also applied to the birth of the Saviour, the 
adoration of the magi, of the shepherds, and of the 
mythical three kings, to the flight into Egypt, the 
finding of Christ in the Temple disputing with the 
doctors, and all other scenes from the childhood of 
Christ that are drawn from the gospels. Accessory 
figures of angels, saints, and of persons contemporary 
with Christ or with the artist, and sometimes of the 
artist or the donor of the painting to the church, are 
often added. (G. F. C.) 

Family of Love. See Familists. 

Family prayer. See Family; Prayer; Wor- 
ship. 

Famine (properly raab' , \ip6c, hunger, 

whether of individuals or of nations). “ In the whole 
of Syria and Arabia, the fruits of the earth must ever 
be dependent on rain ; the watersheds having few large 
springs, and the small rivers not being suflieient for 
the irrigation of even the level lands. If, therefore, 
the heavy rains of November and December fail, the 
sustenance of the people is eut off in the parching 
drought of harvest-time, when the country is almost 
devoid of moisture. Further, the pastoral tribes rely 
on the scanty herbage of the desert-plains and valleys 
for their flocks and herds ; for the desert is interspersed 
in spring-time with spontaneous vegetation, which is 
the product of the preceding rain-fall, and fails almost 
totally without it. It is therefore not difficult to con- 
ceive the frequent occurrence and severity of famines 
in ancient times, when the scattered population, rather 
of a pastoral than an agricultural country, was depend- 
ent on natural phenomena whieh, however regular in 
their season, occasionally failed, and with them the 
sustenance of man and beast. 

“ Egypt, again, owes all its fertility — a fertility that 
gained for it the striking comparison with the ‘garden 
of the Lord' — to its mighty river, whose annual rise 
inundates nearly the whole land, and renders its culti- 
vation an easy certainty. But this ver} 7 bounty of na- 
ture has not unfrequently exposed the country to the 
opposite extreme of drought. With scarcely any rain, 
and that only on the Mediterranean coast, and with 
wells only supplied by filtration from the river through 
a nitrous soil, a failure in the rise of the Nile almost 
certainly entails a degree of scarcity, although if fol- 
lowed by eool weather, and if only the occurrence of a 
single year, the labor of the people may in a great 


FAMINE 


480 


FAMINE 


measure avert the calamity. The causes of dearth ' 
and famine in Egypt arc occasioned by defective in- 
undation, preceded, and accompanied, and followed by 
prevalent easterly and southerly winds. Both these 
winds dry up the earth, and the latter, keeping back 
the rain-clouds from the north, are perhaps the chief 
cause of the defective inundation, as they are also by j 
their accelerating the current of the river — the north- I 
erlv winds producing the contrary effects. Famines ! 
hi Egypt and Palestine seem to be affected by drought 
extending from northern Syria, through the meridian j 
of Egypt, as far as the highlands of Abyssinia. 

“ It may he said of the ancient world generally that 
it was subject to periodical returns of dearth, often 
amounting in particular districts to famine, greatly be- 
yond what is usually experienced in modern times. 
Various causes of a merely natural and economical 
kind contributed to this, apart from strictly moral con- 
siderations. Among these causes may more especially 
be mentioned the imperfect knowledge of agriculture 
which prevailed, in consequence of which men had few 
resources to stimulate, or in unfavorable seasons and 
localities to aid, the productive powers of nature ; the 
defective means of transit, rendering it often impossi- 
ble to relieve the wants of one region, even when 
plenty existed at no great distance in another ; the 
despotic governments, which to so great an extent 
checked the free development of human energy and 
skill ; and the frequent wars and desolations, in a great 
degree also the result of those despotic governments, 
w hich both interrupted the labors of the field and af- 
terwards wasted its fruits. Depending, as every re- 
turning harvest does, upon the meeting of many con- 
ditions in the soil and climate, w hich necessarily vary 
from season to season, it w*as inevital le that times of 
scarcity should be ever and anon occurring in partic- 
ular regions of the world ; and from the disadvantages 
now referred to, under which the world in more remote 
times labored, it w r as equally inevitable that such 
times should often result in all the horrors of famine" 
(Smith, s. v.). 

The Scriptures record several famines in Palestine 
and the neighboring countries. The first occurs in 
Gen. xii, 10, which is described as so grievous as to 
compel Abraham to quit Canaan for Egypt (Gen. xxvi, 
1). Another occurred in the days of Isaac, which was 
the cause of his removal from Canaan to Gerar (Gen. 
xxvi, 17). The most remarkable one was that of 
seven years in Egypt, while Joseph was governor. It 
was distinguished for its duration, extent, and sever- 
ity, particularly as Egypt is one of the countries least 
subject to such a calamity, by reason of its general 
fertility. The ordinary cause of famine in Egypt is 
connected with the annual overflow of the Nile. But 
it would appear that more than local causes were in 
operation in the case noticed in Gen. xli, 30, for it is 
said that “ the famine w r as sore in all lands,” that “the 
famine was over all the face of the earth.” By the 
foresight and wisdom of Joseph, however, provision 
had been made in Egypt during the seven preceding 
years of plenty, so that the people of other parts sought 
and received supplies in Egypt — “all countries came 
into Egypt to buy corn.” Among other lands, Cana- 
an suffered from the famine, which was the immediate 
occasion of Jacob sending his sons down into Egypt, 
and of the settlement in that land of the descendants 
of Abraham; an event of the highest consequence in 
the sequel, and serving to illustrate the benignity and , 
wdsdonrof divine Providence in bringing there a band 
of shepherds to prepare and qualify them for becoming 
ultimately the founders of the Hebrew* nation. 

The fruitfulness of Egypt depends upon the inunda- 
tions of the Nile ; but these are occasioned by the trop- 
ical rains which fall upon the Abyssinian mountains. 
These rains depend upon climatic laws of wide extent 
and great regularity. Yet there is scarcely a land on 
the earth in which famine has raged so often and so i 


terribly as in Egypt, or a land that so very much needa 
the measures which Joseph adopted for the preserva- 
tion of the people. The swelling of the Nile a few 
feet above or below w*hat is necessary proves alike de- 
structive. Particular instances of famine which his- 
tory has handed down to us are truly horrible, and 
the accounts of them are worthy of notice also, inas- 
much as the}* present the services of Joseph in behalf 
of Egypt in their true light. Abdollatif relates thus: 
“ In the year 506 (A.D. 1100), the height of the flood 
■was small almost w ithout example. The consequence 
was a terrible famine, accompanied by indescribable 
enormities. Parents consumed their children ; human 
flesh was, in fact, a very common article of food ; they 
contrived various ways of preparing it. r I hey spoke 
of it and heard it spoken of as an indifferent affair. 
Men-catching became a regular business. The great- 
er part of the population -were swept aw’av by death. 
In the following year, also, the inundation did not 
reach the proper height, and only the lowlands were 
overflowed. Also much of that which was inundated 
could not be sown for want of laborers ’and seed ; much 
| w r as destroyed by worms which devoured the seed-corn * 
also of the seed which escaped this destruction, a great 
! part produced only meagre shoots which perished.” 
(Sec the account of this famine translated in the Am. 
Bill. Repos. 1832, p. 659 sq.) Compare with this ac- 
count the “thin ears and blasted with the east wind” 
(Gen. xli, 6). “Of the horrors in this second year’s 
famine, the year of the Flight, 597 (A.D. 1200), Abdol- 
latif, who was an eye-witness, likewise gives a most 
interesting account, stating tnat the people throughout 
the country were driven to the last extremities, eating 
I offal, and even their own dead, and mentions, as an in- 
stance of the dire straits to which they were driven, 
that persons who were burnt alive lor eating human 
flesh were themselves, thus ready roasted, eaten by 
others, multitudes fled the country, only to perish in 
the desert-road to Palestine. 

“But the most remarkable famine was that of the 
reign of the Fatimi Khalifeh, El-Mustansir billah, 
which is the only instance on record of one of seven 
years’ duration in Egypt since the time of Joseph (AH. 

| 457-1 64, A.D. 1064-1071). This famine exceeded in 
] severity all others of modern times, and was aggrava- 
ted by the anarchy which then ravaged the country. 
Vehement drought and pestilence (says Es-Suyut?, in 
his Hosn d-Mohddarah , MS.) continued for seven con- 
[ sccutive years, so that they [the people] ate corpses, 

I and animals that died of themselves ; the cattle per- 
ished; a dog was sold for 5 dinars, and a cat for 3 
dinars . . . and an ardebb (about 5 bushels) of wheat 
for 100 dinars, and then it failed altogether. He 
adds that all the horses of the Khalifeh, save three, 

' perished, and gives numerous instances of the straits 
to which the wretched inhabitants were driven, and 
of the organized bands of kidnappers who infested Cai- 
I ro, and caught passengers in the streets by ropes fur- 
nished with hooks and let down from the houses. This 
account is confirmed by EI-Makrizi (in his Khitat; 
Quatremcre has translated the account of this famine 
in the life of El-Mustansir, contained in his Mtmoires 
Gcor/raphiqves et Ilistoriques sur VEyypte), frem whom 
we further learn that the family, and even the women 
of the Khalifeh fled, by the way of Syria, on foot, to 
escape the peril that threatened all ranks of the popu- 
lation. The whole narrative is worthy of attention, 
since it contains a parallel to the duration of the fam- 
ine of Joseph, and at the same time enables ns to form 
an idea of the character of famines in the East. The 
famine of Samaria resembled it in many particulars ; 
and that very briefly recorded in 2 Kings viii, 1, 2, af- 
fords another instance of one of seven years : ‘ Then 
spake Elisha unto the woman whose son he had re- 
stored to life, saving, Arise, and go thou and thy house- 
hold, and sojourn wheresoever thqu canst sojourn : for 
the Lord hath called for a famine ; and it shall also 


FAN 


481 


FANATICISM 


coma upon the land seven years. And the woman 
arose, and did after the saying of the man of God : and 
she went with her household, and sojourned in the land 
of the Philistines seven years.” Bunsen ( Egypt's Place, 
etc., ii, 334) quotes the record of a famine in the reign 
of Sesertesen I, which he supposes to be that of Jo- 
seph ; but it must be observed that the instance in 
point is expressly stated not to have extended over 
the whole land, and is at least equally likely, apart 
from chronological reasons, to have been that of Abra- 
ham. 

“In Arabia, famines are of frequent occurrence. 
The Arabs, in such cases, when they could not afford to 
Slaughter their camels, used to bleed them and drink 
the blood, or mix it with the shorn fur, making a kind 
of black pudding. They ate also various plants and 
grains, which at other times were not used as articles 
of food. Thus the tribe of Hanifeh were taunted with 
having in a famine eaten their god, which consisted of 
a dish of dates mashed up with clariffed butter and 
a preparation of dried curds of milk ( Sihah , MS.)” 
(Smith, s. v.). 

Famine is likewise a natural result, in the East, 
when caterpillars, locusts, or other insects destroy the 
produce of the earth. The prophet Joel compares lo- 
custs to a numerous and terrible army ravaging the 
land (ch. i). Famine was also an effect of God’s anger 
(2 Kings viii, 1, 2). The prophets frequently threaten 
Israel with the sword of famine, or with war and fam- 
ine, evils that frequently go together. Amos threat- 
ens another sort of famine: “I will send a famine in 
the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, 
but of hearing the words of the Lord” (Amos viii, 11). 
In ancient times, owing to the imperfect modes of war- 
fare in use, besieged cities were more frequently re- 
duced by famine than by any other means, and the 
persons shut up were often reduced to the necessity of 
devouring not only unclean animals, but also human 
ffesli (compare Dent, x x viii, 22-42 ; 2 Sam. xxi, 1; 2 
Kings vi, 25-28; xxv, 3; Jer. xiv, 15; xix, 9; xlii, 
17 ; Ezek. v, 10-12, 1G ; vi, 12 ; vii, 15). 

The famine predicted by Agabus (Acts xi, 28) was 
the same with that which is related by Josephus (Ant. 
xx, 2, 0) as having taken place in the fourth year of 
Claudius, and affected especially the province of Ju- 
daea. (See Kuinol, Comment, proleg.) See Dearth. 

Fan (rPT‘2, mizrefi , tttvo)>), a winnowing-shovel, 
with which grain w r as thrown up against the wind, in 
order to cleanse it from the broken straw and chaff 
(Isa. xxx, 24; Jer. xv, 7 ; Matt, iii, 12; Luke iii, 17). 
See Agriculture. At the present day, in Syria, the 
instrument used is a large wooden fork. (See liobin- 
son’s Researches, ii, 277, 371 ; Smith's Diet, of Class . 
Antiq. s. v. Pala). Both kinds of instruments are de- 
lineated on the Egyptian monuments (Wilkinson, ii, 
40-46). See Winnowing. 

Fanaticism. (1.) The ancients primarily gave 
the name of fanatici to those who uttered oracular an- 
nouncements, or exhibited wild antics and gestures 
under the (supposed) inspiration of some divinity 
whose temples (find ) they frequented. The heathen 
vates, who pretended to prophesy under the guidance 
of an indwelling spirit (ocdfuov), was called by the 
Greek writers tv9tog, and by the Latins fanaticus (see 
Suidas, s. v. tvdovQ ; Bingham, Orig. Eccles. xvi, v, 4). 
Thence the name was transferred to persons actuated 
by a frantic zeal in religion. 

(2.) The word is sometimes improperly used to stig- 
matize such Christians as are “ zealously affected in a 
good thing” (Gal. iv, 18). Its only legitimate applica- 
tion is to such as add to enthusiasm and zeal for the 
cause, which they believe to be the cause of truth a 
hatred of those who are opposed to them, whether in 
politics, philosophy, or religion. Isaac Taylor, speak- 
ing of religions fanaticism, remarks that, “after reject- 
ing from account that opprobious sense of the word 
III.— H H 


fanaticism which the virulent calumniator of religion 
and of the religious assigns to it, it will be found, as 
we believe, that the elementary idea attaching to the 
term in its manifold application is that of fictitious fer- 
vor in religion, rendered turbulent, morose, or rancor- 
ous by junction with some one or more of the unsocial 
emotions. Or, if a definition as brief as possible were 
demanded, we should say that fanaticism is enthusi- 
asm inflamed by hatred.” He classifies the chief va- 
rieties of fanaticism “under four designations, of 
which the first will comprehend all instances wherein 
malignant religious sentiments turn inward upon the 
unhappy subject of them ; to the second class will be- 
long that more virulent sort of fanaticism which looks 
abroad for its victims ; the third embraces the combi- 
nation of intemperate religious zeal with military sen- 
timents, or with national pride and the love of pow- 
er; to the fourth class must be reserved all instances 
of the more intellectual kind, and which stand con- 
nected with opinion and dogma. Our first sort, then, 
is austere, the second cruel, the third ambitious, and 
the fourth factious. Or, for the purpose of fixing a 
characteristic mark upon each of our classes as above 
named, let it be permitted us to entitle them as fol- 
lows — namely, the first, the fanaticism of the scourge, 
or of personal infliction: the second, the fanaticism of 
the brand, or of immolation and cruelty ; the third, 
the fanaticism of the banner, or of ambition and con- 
quest; and the fourth, the fanaticism of the symbol, 
or of creeds, dogmatism, and ecclesiastical virulence” 
(Fanaticism, New York, 1834, 12mo, p. G2). 

The fanatic begins by rejecting the light of reason 
to abandon himself to the dictates of his fancy. He 
generally adopts some single and exclusive idea, which 
destroys the proper balance of his mind. This absorb- 
ing idea may have a germ of truth in it, but the fanatic 
will not recognise it, if in another form, in others : he 
cannot admit that truth which has taken a certain 
shape for him may have taken another in the eye of 
his neighbor without ceasing to be the truth. He thus 
becomes exclusive, malevolent, and prone to persecu- 
tion. The hatred of blood relations is more intense 
and fierce than that between strangers, and so the fa- 
natic is all the more fierce and tyrannical against oth- 
ers in proportion as their views approach his own, 
without being identically the same. lie will undergo 
any suffering rather than abate one jot of his claims, or 
retreat one step for the sake of charity and union. He 
prefers darkness to light, the letter to the spirit, ha- 
tred to love, the wildness of passion to the calmness 
of inquiry. Fanaticism may show itself in all the re- 
lations of life, but its special field is found in politics 
and religion; and it becomes most dangerous when 
the two are combined. Being entirely one-sided, it is 
yet liable to go in the most opposite directions, and 
then goes all lengths. Thus we have in politics fanat- 
ics of peace, who want peace at any cost, and under all 
circumstances ; fanatics of unrest, who believe only in 
the overthrow of existing institutions; fanatics of 
progress, wdio think anything good if it is only nev r ; 
and fanatics of the past, or conservatives, who wish to 
hold fast whatever is, no matter how bad it is ; fanat- 
ics of liberty, who, however, require others to view 
liberty in the same light as they do, or else deny it to 
them ; and fanatics of despotism, who would wish all 
hearts to beat in unison, like so many v T ell-regulated 
clocks. We find cosmopolitan fanatics, who glory in 
revibng their owm country, and patriotic fanatics, who 
consider all other nations hut their own as barbarians 
and heathens; fanatics of rationalism, who consider ev- 
er}' opponent a blockhead, and fanatics of orthodoxy, 
who think the pope requires only might to make him 
perfect, and who pray for the re-establishment of the 
Inquisition and the stake. Fanaticism has left espe- 
cially sad records of its excesses in the religions his- 
tory of the vmrld, not only among the heathen in In- 
dia, the Moslems and the Jew T s, but also among Chris- 


FAN IX O 


482 


FAREL 


tians. It caused the bloody encounters of the monks I 
of Constantinople at the time of the controversy be- 
tween the Kutyelnans and the Nestorinns. It enven- 
omed the quarrels of the Montanists and the Dona- 
tists. It persecuted the Jews in the Middle Ages. 
It organized the Inquisition, developed the method of 
the coffiie intrare (Luke xiv, 23), and invented a new 
sense for the words in Tit. iii, 10 (haeretieum de vita !) ; 
it instigated the crusade against the Albigenses, who, 
when they were indiscriminately massacred, were 
comforted with the assurance that “the Lord would 
know his own it aimed the dagger in the hands of 
Jiavaillac against the breast of his king; it inspired 
the Te Deum of Gregory XIII as a thanksgiving for 
the massacre of St. Bartholomew's. In the Protestant 
world we find fanaticism in the Anabaptists of Mun- 
ster, in the Crypto-calvinistic troubles, and in the wars 
of the Cavaliers and Roundheads of England (Beck, 
in Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 327 sq.). “Fanaticism 
is the most incurable of all mental diseases, because in 
all its forms — religions, philosophical, or political- — it is 
distinguished by a sort of mad contempt for experience, 
which alone can correct errors of practical judgments” 
(Mackintosh, lJorfot, London, 1851, ii, 671). See also 
Stillingtleet, 1 1 T orlcs, v, 19, 92, 130 ; Fletcher, Works (N. 
Y. ed.), iv, 233 sq. 

Fanino or Fannie, Faventino, a native of Fa- 
enza, in Italy, one of the first martyrs of the Refor- 
mation in Italy. The Scriptures in Italian (probably 
Bruccioirs version, 1532) fell into his hands, and lie 
soon began to speak of the truth to his neighbors. 
V/hen the ecclesiastical authorities heard of his course 
they arrested and imprisoned him. His wife and fam- 
ily came to him with entreaties and tears when first 
apprehended, and he yielded to their persuasions to 
gain his release from prison by recantation. Under 
the bitter reproaches of conscience he soon determined 
to confess Christ openly, and he went publicly through 
Romagna preaching the Reformed doctrines. He was 
ai re? ted at Ragna Cavallo, and condemned to the 
stake. lie w r as removed to Ferrara, where, for eight- 
een months, persuasion, promises, and tortures were 
used in vain to induce him to recant. 8oon after the 
accession of pope Julius III a brief was issued for the 
execution of Fanino. He embraced the messenger, 
saving, “ 1 accept death joyfully lor Christ’s sake.” 
Being urged to recant for the sake of his wife and chil- 
dren, whom he was about to leave without a protector, 
lie replied, “ I have recommended them to the care of 
the best of guardians.” “ What guardian ?” “Jesus 
Christ ! I think I could not commit them to the care 
of a better.” He was ironed, and led out to execution ; 
and on the way, being reproached by his enemies for 
his cheerfulness, when Christ was exceeding sorrowful 
at the approach of death, he answered, “Christ sus- 
tained all manner of pangs and conflicts with death 
and hell on our account, and by his sufferings freed 
those who really believe in him from the fear of them.” 
He was strangled at dawn, and his body was burned 
at noon, in September, 1550. — Young, Life of Aonro 
Paleario (I860, ii, 111) ; M‘Cric, lie formation in Italy, 
ch. v. 

Fannio. See Fanino. 

Fan-tracery Vaulting, 
used chiefly in late perpen- 
dicular work, in which all 
the ribs that rise from the 
springing of the vault have 
the same curve, and diverge 
equally in every direction 
producing an effect some- 
thing like that of the bones 
of a fan. This kind of vault- 
ing admits of considerable 
variety in tbe subordinate 
parts, but the general effect 



of the leading features is more nearly uniform. It 
is very frequently used over tombs, chantry chapels, 
and other small erections, and fine examples on a larger 
scale exist at Henry the Seventh's Chapel ; St. George’s 
Chapel, Windsor ; King’s College Chapel, Cambridge, 
etc.,” in England.- — Parker, Concise Glossary of Archi- 
tecture, s. v. 

Farel, Guillaume, one of the boldest pioneers of 
the Reformation in Switzerland and France, was 1 orn 
near Gap, in Dauphiny, in 1489. He studied at Paris 
with great success, and was for some time teacher in 
the college of cardinal Le Moine, to which post he was 
recommended by Lefevre d’liltaples. See Faber Sta- 
pulexsis. At this period of his life he had no per- 
sonal religious convictions ; hut yet, while devoured 
with a love of letters, he was zealous in the service of 
the Roman Catholic Church. But he was led, under 
the influence of Lefevre, to the study of the Scriptures. 

1 About 1523 be went to Meaux, at the invitation of Le- 
fevre, and the bishop (Bri^onnet, q. v.) gave him au- 
thority to preach. Ills mind was now fixed substan- 
tially in the Reformed doctrine, and he preached, per- 
haps, with more zeal than discretion ; and in 1523, Bri- 
connet, now' becoming timid, sent away the ardent 
young preacher. He soon found it best to retire to 
I Switzerland. At Basel, Feb. 15, 1524, he sustained 
publicly thirteen theses on tbe chief points in contro- 
I versv ( Them at a queedam Latino el Germanice pra jicsita, 

\ Basel, 1528). During his few months’ stay at Basel 
he visited some of the Sw r iss cities, and made friends 
I of Myconius, Haller, and Zwingle. At Basel, (Eco- 
lampadins was his wrarm friend, admiring his zeal 
1 and energy, hut, at the same time, not unaware of his 
lack of discretion. Farel w r as soon involved in a dis- 
pute with Erasmus, whose “trimming” tendency was 
just the opposite of his own ardent and decided na- 
ture. He compared Erasmus to Balaam ; hilt the 
scholar soon proved too strong for the young reformer, 
who was compelled to leave Basel. In one cf his later 
' letters, Erasmus says of him (Lf.wt. p. 798, ed. Loud.) : 

“ You have in your neighborhood the new evangelist 
| Farel, than whom I never saw' a man more false, more 
virulent, more seditious.” But the abuse of Erasmus 
! could not, in the long run, injure Farel. Towards the 
i end of March, 1524, Farel w'ent to Strasburg, where 
he made the friendship of Ilucer and Capito. Under 
the direction of (Eeolampadius, he went to serve a 
newly-formed society at Montbeliard. I lore he preach- 
ed successfully, but yet with great violence. Once, 
on a procession day, he pulled out of the priest’s hand 
the image of St. Anthony, and threw it from a bridge 
into the river ; he narrowly escaped being torn to 
pieces by the mob. Ilis friends became alarmed, and 
( (Eeolampadius censured him for his imprudence (sec 
Corrcspondance des llformatcurs, Paris, 18C6, i, 265). 
Leaving Montbeliard in the spring of 1525, he spent 
| a short time at Basel, and the next year partly in 
Alsace and partly in Switzerland. In 1527 he went 
to Aiglo, and in 1528, when Berne became Protestant, 
he extended his labors to all the territory connected 
with Berne. Under his labors, Aigle and Bex became 
Protestant in 1528-9; Morat and Neufehatel in 1530; 
Orbe in 1531. His labors during these years were not 
only vast, hut perilous ; but the government of Berne 
gave him strong and steady support. In 1531 he was 
sent as a deputation (with A. Sannier) to the Walden- 
sian Synod at Angrogne. He always retained great 
influence among the ’NValdenses. 

In 1532, on his return from the 'SValdensian meet- 
ing, he came to Geneva, then full of religions strife. 
His first preaching was private, hut it was too success- 
ful to be. kept secret; and he was summoned before 
the episcopal council, at the time trembling for its au- 
thority, and therefore the more likely to be severe. 
The meeting with the council was a scene of hitter re- 
criminations, and when Farel was leaving it a gun 
was fired at him. He coolly remarked, “Your shots 


FARE! 


483 


FARINDON 


do not terrify me.” But he was forced to quit Gen?- i 
va for the time, and sent Fioment and Olivetan to 
continue the work there. In 1533 he returned to Ge- 
neva, where the Reformation was gaining ground. 
Furel’s situation here was full of trial and peril, hut 
his courage and devotion admirably fitted him for his 
task. The triumph came Aug. 27, 1535, when the city 
council, by an edict, formally proclaimed the adhesion 
of Geneva to the Reformation. Farel was full of toil 
and anxiety in organizing the Reformed discipline and 
worship, in which he was assisted especially by Viret 
(q. v.). In 1536, Calvin stopped at Geneva to visit 
the Reformers. Farel urged him to stay, and, on Cal- 
vin’s refusal, thus addressed him: “ I declare, in the 
name of God, that if you do not assist us in this work 
of the Lord, the Lord will punish you for following 
your own interest rather than his call.’’ Calvin, 
struck with this denunciation, submitted, and was ap- 
pointed preacher and professor. See Calvin. From 
that time on Farel’s labors were closely united with 
those of Calvin. The confession of faitli drawn up 
by Farel, with Calvin’s counsel, was approved by the 
people in July, 1537. The same year the Conncil of 
Geneva conferred on Farel the honor of a burgess of 
the city, in token of their respect and gratitude. But 
the popular will was not prepared for the severe dis- 
cipline of the Reformers, and in a short time the peo- 
ple, under the direction of a faction, met in a public 
assembly and expelled Farel and Calvin from the 
place (April, 353JS). Farel went to Neufcliatel, where 
th* Church was in a state of disorder, in consequence 
of the troubles occasioned by the severity of the Re- 
formed discipline. He dealt with offenders severely; 
even a lady of noble birth did not escape. She had 
left her husband ; Farel urged her to return to him, 
and on her refusal relinked the scandal and its authors 
publicly from the pulpit. A great strife arose, and 
the people were on the point of expelling Farel ; but 
at last his energy overcame the factious party, and 
the council by vote, in 1542, proclaimed his triumph. 
In that year be returned to Geneva, and went thence 
to Metz, to organize the Reformed Church. He 
preached first in the Dominican cemetery, amid the 
ringing of the convent bells purposely to drown his 
voice. Thousands afterwards flocked to hear him. 
Once, when a Franciscan was preaching Mariolatrv, 
Farel contradicted him, and nearly fell a victim to the 
fury of the mob, especially of the women. On Oct. 2, 
1512, the city council forbade bis preaching in the city, 
and he retired to the neighboring town of Montigny, 
and afterwards to Gorze, where the count of Furstem- 
lierg took him and his friends under his protection. 
On March 25,1543, an armed hand fell upon the evan- 
gelicals while celebrating the Easter communion. 
Many were killed and wounded; among the latter 
was Farel, who took refuge in the castle. lie escaped 
in disguise, and went to Strasburg, where he remain- 
ed a few months. He then visited his old friends in 
Neufchutel and Geneva. Here he approved the exe- 
cution of Scrvctus (q. v.). In 1557 he was sent, with 
Beza, to the Protestant princes of Germany, to implore 
their aid for the Waldenses, and on his return lie went 
to preach the Reformation among the Jura Mountains. 
At sixty-nine he married a young wife, very much to 
Calvin’s disgust, who spoke of him under the circum- 
stances as our poor brother (povre frere). In 1560 he 
visited his native- Dauphiny, established a Reformed 
Church at Grenoble, and passed several months at 
Gap, preaching against Rome with all the vehemence 
of Iiis youth. On Nov. 24, 15G1, he was thrown into 
prison, but was rescued by his friends, who took him 
from the rampart in a basket. In 15GJ be paid a visit 
to the dying Calvin, and then passed some months 
with his old flock at Metz. He returned to Ncufcha- 
tel worn out with fatigue, and died there Sept. 13, 15G5. 

Farel was an ardent, impulsive man, a missionary 
rather than an organizer, an iconoclast rather than a 


theologian. His gifts admirably supplemented those 
of Calvin. Beza (Life of Calvin ) says of Farel that 
in his preaching “ lie excelled in a certain sublimity, 
so that none could hear his thunders without trem- 
bling.” Among his writings are Sommaire ; brieve 
declaration d'aillcuns lieux fott necessaires a un chncwn 
Chrelin , etc. (many editions; reprinted in 1865, along 
with l)a v ray usage : see below) : — De Oraiione Domin- 
ica (1524, 8 vo), afterwards in French, enlarged (Genov. 
1543, 12mo) : — Traite du Purgatoire (1513, 12mo) : — La 
Glaire de V Esprit (against Libertines; Genev. 1550) : — 
Da crag usage de la croix de J. C . (Genev. 15G0, 8vo; 
new ed., with other letters and writings of Farel, Neuf- 
cluitel, 18G5, 8vo): — Traite de la Ctne (1555). There 
are several lives of Farel : Ancillon, Vie de GuilL Farel 
(Amst. 3G93) ; Kirchlioler, Leben Far els (Zurich, 1833, 
2 vols.) ; translated, Kirchhofer’s Life of Farel (Loud. 
1837, sm. 8vo) ; Blackburn, Life of Farel (Pliila. Presb. 
Board). See also Schmidt, Etudes snr Farel (Strasb. 
1831); Ilaag, La France Protestante, vol. iv ; Bavle, 
Dictionnaire , s. v. ; Iloefcr, Nonv. Blog. Generate, xvii, 
103 ; Correspondance des Rfftrmaienrs dans les Pays de 
langue Fran$aise (Paris, 18GG, tom. i). 

Farfa, one of the three most celebrated Italian mon- 
asteries of the Middle Ages (Montecassino, Nonantnla, 
and Farfn), situated on the little river Farfa, in Cen- 
tral Italy. It was in existence before the invasion of 
the Langobardians, by whom it was destroyed, togeth- 
er with a number of other monasteries. It was re-es- 
tablished in G81 by the priest Thomas of Mauriennn, 
who, on his return from the Holy Land, came to Farfa. 
It soon became celebrated, and received numerous pres- 
ents and privileges from popes and kings. The mon- 
astery was so strongly fortified that abbejt Peter, at 
the close of the 9th century, was able for nine years to 
resist a siege by the Saracens, though lie was finally 
compelled to depart with the monks and the treasures 
of the monastery. Having remained abandoned and 
desolate for 48 years, it was re-established about the 
middle of the 10th century by king Hugo, but it after- 
ward became the seat of frightful disorders. Several 
abbots were assassinated and poisoned; and the monks, 
without restraint and disguise, defied all the laws of 
the Church and the state. At the beginning of the 
I3th century a stop was put to these disorders, and the 
reformation of Clugnv was carried through at Farfa. 
Since then the history of the monastery presents no 
points of special interest. A work of considerable im- 
portance for the history of Italy, called after the mon- 
astery, Chronicon Farfense , was compiled at the close 
of the 11 th century by Gregory, a monk and librarian 
of Farfa (died 1100). After many vicissitudes, the 
monastery is still in existence. — Wetzer und Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. iii, 904. (A. J. S.) 

Farindon, Anthony, an eminent divine of the 
Church of England, was born at Sunning, in Berk- 
shire, England, in 3590 ; was admitted scholar of Trin- 
ity College, in Oxford, in 3G12, and was elected fellow 
in 1G17. He took li is M.A. degree in 1G20, and, enter- 
ing into holy orders, lie became a tutor in his college. 
In 1G34, being then B.D., he was called to be vicar of 
Bray, in Berkshire, and soon was made divinity-read- 
er in the king’s chapel at Windsor. During the Civil 
War lie was ejected for conformity to the Church of 
England, and was reduced to such extremities as to be 
very near starving. Sir John Robinson, alderman of 
London, and some of the parishioners of Milk Street, 
London, invited him to be pastor of St. Mary Magda- 
len there, “which invitation lie gladly accepted, and 
preached to the great liking of the royal party. In 
the year 3G57 lie published a folio volume of these ser- 
mons, and dedicated them to his kind patron Robinson, 
‘as a witness or manifesto,’ says he to him, ‘of my 
deep apprehension of vonr many noble favors, and 
great charity to me and mine, when the sharpness of 
the weather and the roughness of the times had blown 


FAHISSOL 


484 


FARM 


all from us, and well-nigh left us naked.’ ” He died 
at his house in Milk Street in September, 1058. Three 
posthumous volumes of his sermons (folio) were pub- 
lished (1G58 1(173) in 1GG3, a second folio volume of 
his sermons containing forty, and a third in 1G73 con- 
taining fifty. He also left in manuscript several me- 
morials of the life of Hales (q. v.) of Eton, his intimate 
friend. A new edition of his Sermons , with a Life of 
the Author by F. Jackson, appeared in London in 1849 
(4 vols. 8vo). They afford a u tine specimen of ster- 
ling English, and of rich and varied eloquence.” See 
Wood, Athene Oxonienses ; Hook, Ecclesiastical Biogra- 
phg, v, 57 ; Jack son, Life of Farindon , prefixed to the I 
new edition of his sermons. 

Faiissol or Peritzol, Abraham ben-Morpecai, 
a French liabbi, distinguished alike in geography, po- 
lemics, and exegesis, was born at Avignon about the 
middle of the 15th century. In 1472 he went to Fer- 
rara as minister to a Jewish congregation, and while 
there gave most of his time and attention to the study 
of the sacred writings. He published in 1500 a com- 
mentary on the Pentateuch, entitled 7 ns 

(the jlncer of lilies)., which, according to He Rossi, was 
begun in 14G8. Next followed an apologetic and 
polemic work, “.’*C (the shield of Abraham), 

consisting of three parts, of which the first is an 
apology for Judaism, the second an attack on Mo- 
hammedanism, and the third against Christianity. 
About 1517 he published a scholarly commentary on 
Job, bv 33^3, printed in the Venetian Rab- 

binical Bible (1517, fob), and in the Amsterdam Rab- 
binical Bible (edited by Frankfurter, 1727-1728). In 
1524 be published his famous cosmography, rnr.JSi 
r*THS:, Itinera Mundi (Venice, 1587, 8vo, very 
rare; reprinted Offenbach, 1720; and again with a 
Latin translation and elaborate notes by the English 
Orientalist, Thomas Hyde, Oxford, 1691). In this last- 
named work Farissol describes the abodes of the ten 
tribes, the Sam bat ion [Eldad], and the garden of Eden, 
which he places in the mountains of Nubia (eh. xviii 
and xxx). A year later Farissol completed a Com- 
mentary on the book of Ecclesiastes, ^£0 
r^rrp, which has, however, never been printed. He 
died about the end of 1528, shortly after his return to 
Avignon. — Jost, Gt-sch. des Judenthums u. s. Sehten , iii, 
1*22; Etheridge, Inlrod. to Ileb. Liter, p. 453; Hocfer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate , xxxix, G14; Kitto, Cyclopaedia, 
ii, 4; Furst, Bib. Jud. i, 27G. (J. H. W.) 


l to serve in it, at his own expense, as long as the occa- 
I sion required. The Hebrews appear to have -acquired 
in Egypt considerable knowledge of agriculture ; but 
the physical circumstances of the land of Canaan were 
in many respects essentially different, as it w'as not a 
j land rarely refreshed with rain as Egypt (Dent, xi, 

| 10-15). The Hebrews, notwithstanding the richness 
of the soil, endeavored to increase its fertility in vari- 
, oils ways. In order to avert the aridity which the 
' summer droughts occasioned, they watered the soil by 
means of aqueducts communicating with the brooks, 
and thereby imparted to their fields a garden-like ver- 
dure (Psa. i, 3; lxv, 10; Prov. xxi, 1; Isa. xxxii, 2, 
20). In the hilly part of the country terrace cultiva- 
tion was practised, so that the hills otherwise barren 
were rendered fertile (Dent, xi, 11 ; Psa. Ixxii, 1G ; civ, 
10; Isa. xxx, 25). With the use of manure the He- 
brews were undoubtedly acquainted ; and that the soil 
! might not be exhausted, it was ordered that every 
j seventh and every fiftieth year the whole land should 
lie fallow. The dung, the carcasses, and the blood of 
animals were used to enrich the soil (2 Kings ix, 37 ; 
Psa. lxxiii, 10 ; viii, 2 ; Jer. ix, 22). Salt, either by 
itself, or mixed in the dunghill in order to promote 
putrefaction, is specially mentioned as a compost (Matt, 
v, 13; Luke xiv, 34, 35). The soil was enriched, also, 
by means of ashes, to which the straw, stubble, husks 
of corn, brambles, grass, etc., that overspread the land 
during the fallow or sabbatical year, were reduced by 
fire. The burning over the surface of the land had 
also the good effect of destroying the seeds of noxious 
herbs (Prov. xxiv, 31 ; Isa. xxx, 25). The soil of Pal- 
estine is very fruitful, if the dews of spring, and the 
rains of autumn and winter are not withheld. “Nev- 
ertheless,” observes Hengstenberg, “it is to be con- 
; sidered that the Canaan of which Moses speaks is in a 
manner an ideal land. It was never what it might 
have been, since the bond of allegiance, in conse- 
! quence of which God had promised to give the land 
its rain in its season, was always far from being per- 
fectly complied with.” Among the Hebrews the oc- 
cupation of the husbandman was held in high honor, 
and even distinguished men disdained not to put their 
hands to the plough (1 Sam. xi, 5-7 ; 1 Kings xix, 19; 
2 C broil, xxvi, 10). The esteem in which agriculture 
was held diminished as luxury increased, but it never 
wholly ceased ; even after the exile, when many of the 
Jews had become merchants and mechanics, the es- 
teem and honor attached to this occupation still con- 
tinued, especially under the dynasty of the Persians, 
who were agriculturists from religious motives. See 


Farm (aypiig, elsewhere usually rendered “ field”), 
a plot of arable land (Matt, xxii, 5). Moses, follow- 
ing the example of the Egyptians, made agriculture 
the basis of the Hebrew state. He accordingly ap- 
portioned to every Hebrew a certain q a an tit} 7 of land, 
and gave him the right of tilling it himself, and of 
transmitting it to his heirs (Num. xxvi, 33-54). This 
equal distribution of the soil was the basis of the He- 
brew 7 agrarian law. As in Egypt the lands all be- 
longed to the king, and the husbandmen were not the 
proprietors of the fields which they cultivated, but 
farmers or tenants who w r ere obliged to give to the 
king one fifth of their produce (Gen. xlvii, 20-25), 
just so Moses represents Jehovah as the sole possessor 
of the soil of the Promised Land, in which he v r as about 
to place the Hebrew's by his special providence ; and 
this land they held independent of all temporal supe- 
riors, by direct tenure from Jehovah their king (Lev. 
xxv, 23). Moses further enacted that for the land 
the Hebrew's should pay a kind of quit-rent to Jeho- 
vah, the sovereign proprietor, in the form of a tenth or 
tithe of the produce, which was assigned to the priest- 
hood. The condition of military service was also at- 
tached to the land, as it appears that every ^freeholder 
was obliged to attend the general muster of the na- 
tional army, and (wfitli few exceptions, Deut. xx, 5-9) 


Land. 

In ancient Egypt, the peasants or husbandmen, like 
the modern fellahs of the same country, seem to have 
formed a distinct class, if not caste, of society (Wilkin- 
son, Anc. Egypt, ii, 1, 2). The government did not in- 
terfere directly with the peasants respecting the na- 
ture of the produce they intended to cultivate, and the 
vexations of later times were unknown under the Pha- 
raohs. They were thought to have the best opportu- 
nities of obtaining, from actual observation, an accu- 
rate knowledge on all subjects connected with hus- 
bandry; and, as Diodorus observes, “being from their 
infancy brought up to agricultural pursuits, they far 
excelled the husbandmen of other countries, and had 
become acquainted with the capabilities of tlie land, 
the mode of irrigation, the exact season for sow ing and 
reaping, as well as all the most useful secrets connect- 
ed with the harvest, which they had derived from their 
ancestors, and had improved by their own experience.” 
“They rented,” says the same historian, “the arable 
lands belonging to the kings, the priests, and the mili- 
tary class, for a small sum, and employed their whole 
time in the tillage- of their farms;” and the laborers 
who cultivated land for the rich peasant, or other land- 
ed proprietors, were superintended by the steward or 
owner of the estate, who had authority over them, and 


FARM 


485 


FARNOVIUS 


Cli 2 power of condemning delinquents to the bastinado. 
This is shown by the paintings of the tombs, which 
frequently represent a person of consequence inspect- 
ing the tillage of the field, either seated in a chariot, 
walking, or leaning on his staff, accompanied by a fa- 


of the fields ; and the extent of their duties, or the 
number of those employed, depended on the quantity 
of land, or the will of its owner. 

At the present day the lower orders in Egypt, with 
the exception of a very small proportion, chiefly resid- 
ing in the large towns, consist of felbihin (or agricul- 
turists). Most of those in the great towns, and a few 
in the smaller towns and some of the villages, are pet- 
ty tradesmen or artificers, or obtain their livelihood 
as servants, or by various labors. In all cases their 
earnings are very small ; barely sufficient, in general, 
and sometimes insufficient, to supply them and their 
families with the cheapest necessaries of life. Their 
food chiefly consists of bread (made of millet or of 
maize), milk, new cheese, eggs, small salted fish, cu- 
cumbers and melons, and gourds of a great variety of 
kinds, onions and leeks, beans, chick-peas, lupins, the 
fruit of the black egg-plant, lentils, etc., dates (both 
fresh and dried), and pickles. Most of the vegetables 
they eat in a crude state. When the maize (or Indian 
corn) is nearly ripe, many ears of it are plucked, and 
toasted or baked, and eaten thus by the peasants. 
Rice is too dear to be an article of common food for the 
fellahin, and flesh-meat they very seldom taste. It 
is surprising to observe how simple and poor is the 
diet of the Egyptian peasantry, and yet how robust 
and healthy most of them are, and how severe is the 
labor which they can undergo (see Lane, Mod. Egypt . 
ch. vii). 

Dr. Thomson thus describes the modern lower class 
of farmers in Palestine (Land and Book, i, 531 sq.) : 
“These farmers about ns belong to el-Mughar, and 
their land extends to the declivity immediately above 
Gennesaret, a distance of at least eight miles from 
their village. Our farmers would think it hard to 
travel so far before the}'- began the day’s work, and 
so would these if they had it to do every day; but 
they drive their oxen before them, carry bed, bedding, 
and board, plow, yoke, and seed on their donkeys, and 
expect to remain out in the open country until their 
task is accomplished. The mildness of the climate 
enables them to do so without inconvenience or injury. 
IIow very different from the habits of Western farm- 
ers ! These men carry no cooking apparatus, and, we 
should think, no provisions. They, however, have a 
quantity of their thin, tough bread, a few olives, and 
perhaps a little cheese in that leathern bag which 
hangs from their shoulders — the ‘scrip’ of the New 
Testament— and with this they are contented. When 
hungry, they sit by the fountain or the brook, and 
eat ; if weary or sleep}*-, they throw around them their 
loose ’ aba , and lie down on the ground as contentedly 
as the ox himself. At night they retire to a cave, 
sheltering rock, or shady tree, kindle a fire of thorn- 
bushes, heat over their stale bread, and, if they have 
shot a bird or caught a fish, they broil it on the coals, 
and thus dinner and supper in one are achieved with 
the least possible trouble. But their great luxury is 
smoking, and the whole evening is whiled away in 


whiffing tobacco and bandying the rude jokes of the 
light-hearted peasant. Such a life need not be disa- 
greeable, nor is it necessarily a severe drudgery in 
this delightful climate. The only thing they dread is 
an incursion of wild Arabs from beyond the lake, and 
to meet them they are all arm- 
ed as if going forth to war.” 
See Agriculture. 

Farmer, Hugh, a learn- 
ed Independent minister, was 
born in 1714, near Shrews- 
bury, England. He studied 
under Doddridge, and gained 
his entire esteem and approbation. On leaving North- 
beeame assistant to Mr. David Some. His 
ever, proving acceptable to the Dissenters 
neighborhood of Walthamstow, a place of wor- 
x, 8), or the culture 1 ship was soon built, and for many years he continued 



Ancient Egyptian Fanning. 

Fig. 1, the overseer; 2, his chariot, in charge of a driver; G, breaking up the ground; 
4,5, sowing; 3, ploughing in. 

vorite dog. To one officer were intrusted the affairs 



there. In 1761 he became afternoon lecturer at Salters’ 
Hall, and soon after Tuesday lecturer at the “ Mer- 
chants’ lecture.” As lie declined in years, he gradually 
relinquished his engagements as a preacher. In 1772 
he resigned the afternoon lecture at Salters’ Hall, and 
eight years after he gave up the Tuesday morning ser- 
mon; but he did not leave his church at Waltham- 
stow till a few years later, when he gave up pulpit ex- 
ercises entirely. He died Feb. 5, 1787. He published 
A Dissertation on Miracles (London, 1771, 8vo) ; An In- 
quiry into the Nature and Design of Christ's Temptation 
in the Wilderness (London, 1776, 8vo, 3d ed.); and An 
Essay on the Demoniacs of the New Testament (London, 
1775, 8vo), in which lie endeavored to prove that these 
were not cases of real possession, but of persons afflict- 
ed wtih epilepsy or madness. “ This publication was 
answered by the late Mr. Fell, one of the tutors of 
Homerton Academy; and a controversy ensued, in 
which much acrimony of temper was discovered on 
both sides. Mr. Farmer was rather of a high spirit 
and hasty temper; but, abating these defects, he was 
a most estimable man,” though he allowed himself 
larger liberty in speculation than was common in that 
age. Thus he interprets the temptation of Christ as a 
vision, and demoniacal possession as a disease. See 
D demoniacs. A clause in his will directed his manu- 
scripts to be burned ; among them was a treatise on 
Balaam, and a revised edition of his essay on miracles. 
See Dodson, Memoirs of Farmer (London, 1805, 8vo); 
Jones, Christian Biography , p. 145. 

Farneworth, Ellis, an English divine, was born 
in the parisli of Bonsall, Derbyshire, England, of 
which his father was rector, pursued his studies first 
at Chesterfield School, then at Eton, and then at Jesus 
College, Cambridge. In 1763 he was presented to the 
rectory of Carsington, in his native county, where he 
died in 1763. His works, which are all translations, 
are : 1. Life of Pope Sextus V, from the Italian of Gre- 
gorio Leti, with Preface, etc. (London, 1754, fol., and 
Dublin, 1778, 8vo) : — 2. A short History of the Isra- 
elites, from abbe Fleury’s Les Maurs des Israelites 
(Lond. 1756, 8vo ; new edition by Adam Clarke, Lond. 
1805, 12mo ; republished N. Y. in 16mo) : — 3. The His- 
tory of the Civil B ars of France , from the Italian of 
Davila (1757, 2 vols. 4to): — 1. The Works of. Marina- 
t'd, translated, with Notes, Anecdotes, and Life (1761, 
2 vols. 4to, and 1775, 4 vols. 8vo), a work not appre- 
ciated during the life of the translator, but now com- 
manding a high price (Disraeli, Calamities of Authors, 
Lond. and N.Y. 1859, p. 84). See Rose, New Gen. Biog. 
Diet., and Allibone, Diet, of Authors , s. v. (J.W. M.) 

Farnovius (Stanislaus Faknouski or Farnr- 
sius), one of the principal Antitrinitarians of Poland, 
was a pupil of Peter Gonesius (q. v.). After siding 
for some time with the Socinians, lie became in 1567 a 
violent champion of the right wing of Unitarianism, 
teaching, in the true Arian sense, the subjection of the 
Son to the Father, without, however, denying the pre- 


FAROE ISLANDS 


4 '86 


FAST 


existence of the supernatural part of his nature. The 
followers of his system are called Farnovians or Far- 
nesians. Farnovius vigorously attacked the Socinian 
wing which maintained that Christ was essentially a 
man, but is to be worshipped as God since his ascen- 
sion. lie found it difKeult, however, to retain the 
half-way position he had taken, and in the course of 
events most of his followers joined the main body of 
the Unitarians, especially when Socinus became the 
chief of that party. His own school vanished at his 
death, about 1014. — Herzog, Real- Ency Hop. iv, 331; 
Zeltucr, Ilist. Crypto- Socinismi , i, 1201 ; Bock, Hist. 
A i ttit rinita riorum ; O. Fock, Socinianismus , i, 155 sq.; 
Moslieim,£7*wcA History , iii, 242 ; Trcelisel, l)ie protest. 
Antitrinitarier, vols. i and ii. 

Faroe Islands. See Denmark. 

Farrant, Richard, an eminent composer of mu- 
sic, and regarded as one of the fathers of Church mu- 
sic in England, was born in the early part of the ICth 
century, and died about 1585. II is name appears on 
the list of gentlemen of the chapel to Edward VI in 
1504, and he was afterwards organist and master of 
the choristers of St. George’s Chapel, Windsor. II is 
“compositions for the Church, simple as they seem, 
are so solemn, so devout, so tender, and atfeeting, that 
they may challenge comparison with the sacred music 
of any age or country” (. Pictorial Hist.'). Many of his 
pieces are found in the collections of Boyce and Bar- 
nard. The best are, “ Hide not thou thy face,” “Call 
to remembrance,” and “ Lord, for thy tender mercy’s 
sake.” — Rose, Xeic Gen. Bug. Diet.; Allibone, Diet, 
of Authors , Pictorial Hist, of England, iii, 5G2 (Cham- 
bers’s ed.). (d.W.M.) 

Farthing is the rendering in the Auth. Vers, for 
two Roman coins of different values. See Money. 

1. The assarius (Grtecized u<7(Japl01 , , Matt, x, 20 ; 
Luke xii, G), properly a small as, assarittm , but in the 
time of our Lord used as the Gr. equivalent of the Lat. 
as. In the texts cited it is put (like our term “a cop- 
per”) for any trilling amount. The Vulg. in Matt, x, 
29 renders it by as, and in Luke xii, G, puts dipondius 
for two assaria , the dipondius or dupond us being equal 
to two uses. The aoaapiov is therefore cither the Ro- 
man as, or the more common equivalent in Palestine 
in the Gneco-Roman scries, or perhaps both. The ren- 


fourtli of an as, equal to 
two lepta (Mark, i. e.), a 
small copper coin, equal 
nearly to two fifths of 
a cent. The name qua- 
druns was originally giv- 
en to the piece of three 
ounces, therefore also 
called teruncius . Hence 
it bore three balls as its 
distinctive mark (Kitto, 

Pictorial Bible, note on 
.om.in As. in i / rri / j 

Mark, l. e.). The Upton , 

Xf7 7tqv, was originally a very small Greek copper coin, 





Assarion of Chiov 

dering of the Vulg. in Luke xii, G makes it probable 
that a single coin is intended by two assaria, and this 
opinion is strengthened by the occurrence, on coins of 
Chios, struck during the imperial period, but without 
the heads of emperors, and therefore of the Greek au- 
tonomous class, of the words ACOAPION, ACC A IMA 
AYO, A CCA PI A TIMA. The haf assarion of the 
same island has also been found, yet it is of the same 
size as the full assarion (Akerman, XunJsmatic Illus- 
trations of the Xew Tes- 
tament , p. 7). 

The proper as was a 
copper coin, the Roman 
unit of value for small 
sums, equal to a tenth of 
the denarius or drachma, 
i. e. 14 cents (Smith’s 
Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. 
v. As\ See Pkjiny. 

2. The quad rans (Gr re- 
sized KovpdpTtjg. Matt, 
v, 2G ; Mark xii, 42), the 



Roman Quadra ns. 

seven of which with the Athenians went to the \a\- 
kovc, or bronze piece. The copper currency of Pales- 
tine, in the reign of Tiberius, was partly of Roman 
coins, partly of Graeco-Roman (technically Greek Im- 
perial). In the former class there was no common 
piece smaller than the as, equivalent to the ctaactpiov 
of the N. T. (above), but in the latter there were two 
common smaller pieces, the one apparently the quarter 
of the uoauptor, and the other its eighth, though the 
irregularity with which they were struck makes it dif- 
ficult to pronounce with certainty ; the former piece 
was doubtless called the Kocpdmjg, or quadnms, and 
the latter the XiTrrdv, or lepton. See Mite. 
Fascination. See Charm. 

Fassari, Vincent, a Sicilian theologian, was born 
in Palermo in 1599, and died in the same city in 1GG3. 
lie became a Jesuit in 1G14, and taught successively 
belles-lettres, philosophy, theology, and the Scriptures. 
Of his religious and philosophical works, the most im- 
portant are Disputat ones philosophic ie, de quantitate, 
ejusque Compnsitione , Essentia, etc. (Palermo, 1 G4-1 , fob); 

, and Jmmaculata Deipane Concept io theologiciv Commissa 
triitincv (Lyons, 1GGG, fol.). — Hoe for, A T n«r. Pi g. Gene- 
1 rale ; Mongitore, Bibliotheca Sicula ; EibliotJuque des 
Ecrivains de la Compagnie dc Jesus. (J. \V. M.) 

Fassoni, Liberato, an Italian theologian, was 
born about A.D. 1700, and died at Rome in 17G7. He 
I was professor of theology in the college of his order at 
* Rome. AVe have from him De Liilnitiano Rat. Brine. 
(Sinigaglia, 1754, fol.): — De Graca Sacrarvm Littira - 
rum edi’ione a LXX interpretibus (Vrbino, 1754, fob) : — 
Dc riorum in sinu Abrahce beatitudine ante Chrisii mor- 
tem (Rome, 17G0, 4to). — lloefer, Xouv. Bing. G ini rale. 
(J. W. M.) .. 

Fast (properly, tsitm , strictly, to keep the 

mouth shut ; mjartvio, strictly, not to eat). In the early 
ages of the world, when the spontaneous productions 
of nature and the spoils of the chase formed man's 
chief aliment, fasting from time to time was compul- 
sory, in consequence of the uncertainty of obtaining 
! food when wanted. It would be easy for superstitious 
ignorance to interpret this compulsion into an expres- 
sion of the divine will, and so to sanction the observ- 
ance of fasting as a religious duty. The transition 
would he the easier at a time and in countries when 
the office, of physician was united in the same person 
with that of priest; for in hot climates occasional ab- 
stinence is not without its advantages on the health ; 
j and an abstinence which the state of the body re- 
quired, but which the appetite shunned or refused, the 
i authority of the priest and the sanctions of religion 


FAST 


487 


FAST 


would exact at once with ease and certainty. In the 
earlier stages of civilization no idea is more prevalent 
and operative than that the Deity is propitiated by 
voluntary sulferings on the part of his creatures. 
Hence ensued all kinds of bodily mortilications, and 
even the sacrifice of life itself. Na} r , “the fruit of the 
body 1 ' — the dear pledges of mutual affection, the best 
earthly gift from the heavenly Father — children, were 
sacrificed in expiation of “the sin of the soul.” Hu- 
man enjoyments were held to be displeasing in the 
sight of God. The notion that the gods were jealous 
of man’s happiness runs through the entire texture of 
Greek and Homan mythology ; and the development 
of this falsehood, as presented in Greek tragedy, has 
given birth to some of the finest productions of the 
human mind. But what more pleasurable than food 
to man, especially to the semi-barbarian ? The denial 
of such a pleasure must then be well-pleasing to the 
Divinity, the rather because, on occasions of family 
bereavement, of national disaster, or any great calam- 
ity, the appetite is naturally affected under the influ- 
ence of grief, and is made to loathe the food which in 
its ordinary condition it finds most grateful. A con- 
nection between sorrow and fasting would thus be es- 
tablished which would carry with it a sort of divine 
sanction in being natural and inevitable in its origin. 
Accordingly, abstinence, which seemed imposed by 
Providence, if not in expiation of guilt, yet as an ac- 
companiment of sorrow, easily became regarded as a 
religious duty when voluntarily prolonged or assumed, 
and grew to he considered as an efficacious means for 
appeasing the divine wrath, and restoring prosperity 
and peace. “Climate, the habits of a people, and 
their creed, gave it at different periods different char- 
acteristics; but it may be pronounced to have been a 
recognised institution with all the more civilized na- 
tion**, especially those of Asia, throughout all historic 
times. We find it in high estimation among the an- 
cient Parsees of Irania. It formed a prominent feat- 
ure in the ceremonies of the mysteries of Mithras; 
and found its way, together with these, over Armenia, 
Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia Minor, to Palestine, and 
northward to the wilds of Scythia. The ancient Chi- 
nese and Hindus, and principally the latter, in accord- 
ance with their primeval view — which they held in 
common with the Parsees — of heaven and hell, salva- 
tion and damnation, of the transmigration of the soul, 
and of the body as the temporary prison of a fallen 
spirit, carried fasting to an unnatural excess. Al- 
though the Vedas attach little importance to the ex- 
cruciation of the body, yet the Pavaka, by the due 
observance of which the Hindu believer is purified 
from all his sins, requires, among other tilings, an nn- | 
interrupted fast for the space of twelve days. Egypt 
seems to have had few or no compulsory general fasts ; 
but it is established beyond doubt that for the initia- 
tion into the mysteries of Isis and Osiris, temporary 
abstinence was rigorously enforced. In Siam, all sol- 
emn acts are preceded by a period of fasting, the sea- 
sons of the new and full moon being especially conse- 
crated to this rite. In Java, where abstinence from 
the flesh of oxen is part of the religion of all, Buddh- 
ists and worshippers of Brahma alike, the manner and 
times of the observance vary according to the religion 
of the individual. Again, in Tibet, the Dalai-lamaites 
and Bogdo-l imaites hold this law in common. That 
Greece observed and gave a high place to occasional 
fast-days — such as the third day of the festival of the 
Eleusinian mysteries, and that, for instance, those 
who came to consult the oracle of Trophonius had to 
abstain from food for twenty-four hours — is well 
known. It need hardly be added that the Homans 
did not omit so important an element of the festivals , 
and ceremonies which they adopted from their neigh- 
bors, though with them the periods of fasting were of 
less frequent recurrence” (Chambers, Encyclojtadia, s. ! 
v.). The Mohammedans fast (till sunset) during the 


whole of their ninth (lunar) month Ramadan (see 
D’llerbclot, Bibl. Or . s. v.). (On this religious ob- 
servance among pagan nations, consult Meiners, Gescli. 
der Relig. ii, 139; Lakemacher, Antiq . Grac. Baer. p. 
G26; AVachsmuth, Hetten. Alterthum. ii, 237 ; Bottiger, 
Kunstmythol. i, 132.) See Asceticism. 

I. Jewish Fasting. — The word (vi)<rn:'ia, jejuni- 
uni) is not found in the Pentateuch, but it often occurs 
in the historical books and the prophets (2 Sam. xii, 
1G; 1 Kings xxi, 9-12; Ezra viii, 21; Psa. lxix, 10; 
Isa. 1 viii, 5 ; Joel i, 14 ; ii, 15 ; Zech. viii, 19, etc.). In 
the law the only term used to denote the religious ob- 
servance of fasting is the more significant one, 1132 
— 23 (jaTnivovv t)]v \pv\ijv ; affligere animam ), “ af- 
fHieting the soul” (Lev. xvi, 29-31 ; xxiii, 27 : Numb, 
xxx, 13). The word r“3yp, i. c. affliction , which oc- 
curs Ezra ix, 5, where it is rendered in A. V. “heavi- 
ness,” is commonly used to denote fasting in the Tal- 
mud, and is the title of one of its treatises. 

The sacrifice of the personal will, which gives to 
fasting all its value, is expressed in the old term used 
in the law, afflicting the soul. The faithful son of Is- 
rael realized the blessing of “chastening his soul with 
fasting” (Psa. lxix, 10). But the frequent admoni- 
tions and stern denunciations of the prophets may 
show us how prone the Jews were in their formal fasts 
to lose the idea of a spiritual discipline, and to regard 
them as being in themselves a means of winning favor 
from God, or, in a still worse spirit, to make a parade 
of them in order to appear religious before men (Isa. 
lviii, 8; Zech. vii, 5, G; Mai. iii, 14 ; comp. Matt, vi, 
10 ). 

The Jewish fasts were observed with various de- 
grees of strictness. Sometimes there was entire absti- 
nence from food (Esth.iv, 16, etc.). On other occasions 
there appears to have been only a restriction to a very 
plain diet (Dan. x, 3). Rules are given in the Tal- 
mud (both in Yoma and Taanith) as to the mode in. 
which fasting is to be observed on particular occasions. 
The fast of the day, according to Josephus (Ant. iii, 
10, 3), was considered to terminate at sunset, and St. 
Jerome speaks of the fasting Jew as anxiously waiting 
for the rising of the stars. Fasts were not observed 
on the sabbaths, the new moons, the great festivals, 
or the feasts of Purim and Dedication (Judith viii, 6; 
Taanith , ii, 10). 

Those who fasted frequently dressed in sackclorh or 
rent their clothes, put ashes on their head and went 
barefoot (1 Kings xxi, 27 ; comp. Josephus, A nt. viii, 
13, 8; Neh. ix, 1 ; Psa. xxxv, 18). The rabbinical di- 
rections for the ceremonies to be observed in public 
Lists, anil the prayers to be used in them, may he seen 
in Taanith , ii, 1-4 (see the Col. Talm. “ Taanith” c. 
verss. it noth De Lundii, Traj. ad Rh. 1G94, 8vo), Con- 
sult also Mnimonides, Jod IJa-Chezda, Ifilchoth Ta /- 
nioth , i, 315 sq. ; Lightfoot, Ilorre Hebraica on Luke 
xviii, 12 ; Sohottgen, Jlorcc Ebraica on Luke xviii, 12 ; 
Reland, Antiqnif cites Sacra. Veteruvi I lebr riorum (1717), 
p. 538 sq. ; Bloch, in Geiger's Wissenschaftliche Zeit- 
schrift fur jtidisrh? Theol. iv, 205 sq. ; Fink, in Ersch 
und Gruber’s Encyklopadie, s. v. Fasten; Jost , Gesch. 
des Judrnthums und seiner Secten (Leipzig, 1857), i, 184 
sq. ; Bauer, Gotlesd. Verf. i, 348 sq. ; Otho, Lex . Rabb. 
p. 233 sq. 

1. The sole fast required by Moses was on the great 
(lay of annual atonement. This observance seems al- 
ways to have retained some prominence as “the fast” 
(Acts xxvii, 9). But what the observance of the en- 
joined duty involved we are nowhere expressly in- 
formed, and can approximate to a knowledge of precise 
details only so far as later practices among the Jews 
may be considered as affording a faithful picture of 
this divinely-sanctioned ordinance. In these remarks 
the opinion is implied that “the fast,” whatever im- 
portance it may have subsequently acquired, was orig- 


FAST 


488 


FAST 


inally only an incident, not to say an accident, in the 
great solemnity ot' the annual atonement. See Atone- 
ment, Day of. 

There is no mention of any other periodical fast in 
the 0. T. except in Zech. vii, 1-7 ; viii, 19. From these 
passages it appears that the Jews, during their captiv- 
ity, observed four annual fasts in the fourth, fifth, sev- 
enth, and tenth months. When Hie building of the 
second Temple had commenced, those who remained 
in Babylon sent a message to the priests at Jerusalem 
to inquire whether the observance of the fast in the 
fifth month should not be discontinued. The prophet 
takes the occasion to rebuke the Jews for the spirit in 
which they had observed the fast of the seventh month 
as well as that of the fifth (vii, 5-G); and afterwards 
(viii, 19), giving the subject an evangelical turn, he de- 
clares that the whole of the four fasts shall be turned 
to ‘‘joy and gladness, and cheerful feasts.” Zechariah 
simply distinguishes the fasts by the months in which 
they were observed ; but the Mishna ( Taanith , iv, G) 
and St. Jerome (in Zachariam viii) give statements of 
certain historical events which they were intended to 
commemorate : 

(1.) The fast of the fourth month. — Kept on the 17th 
of Tammuz, to commemorate the making of the golden 
calf by the Jews, the breaking of the tables of the law 
by Moses (Exod. xxiv; comp, xxxiii, 3), the failure of 
the daily sacrifice for want of cattle during the siege, 
and the storming of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar 
(Jer. lii). 

(2.) The fast of the fifth month. — Kept on the 9th 
of Ah, to commemorate the decree that those who had 
left Egypt should not enter Canaan (Num. xiv, 27, 
etc.) ; the Temple burnt by Nebuchadnezzar, and 
again by Titus; and the ploughing up of the site of 
the Temple, with the capture of Bether, in which a 
vast number of Jews from Jerusalem had taken refuge 
in the time of Hadrian (comp. Jost ,Gesck. d. Israeliten , 
iii, 240). 

(3.) The fast of the seventh month. — Commemora- 
ting the complete sack of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnez- 
zar, and the death of Gedaliah (2 Kings xxv), on the 
3d of Tisri (comp. Seder Olam Rabba , e. xxvi). 

(4.) The fast of the tenth month. — On the 10th of 
Tebeth, to commemorate the receiving by Ezekiel and 
the other captives in Babylon of the news of the de- 
struction of Jerusalem (Ezek. xxxiii, 21; compare 2 
Kings xxv, 1). 

These four fasts have been Christianized, and tra- 
dition tells us that their transfer into the Christian 
Church v r as made by the Roman bishop Callistus 
(Hour. A.D. 223). To deprive them, however, of their 
Jewish appearance, the whole year w r as divided into 
four seasons (quatnor tempora), and a fast v r as ap- 
pointed for one week of each season (compare Herzog, 
Kneyklopadie , iii, 336). 

(5.) The fast of Esther. — Additional to the above ; 
kept oil the 13th of Adar (Estli. iv, 1G). See Esther 
(Fast of). 

Some other events mentioned in the Mishna are 
omitted as unimportant. Of those here stated several 
could have had nothing to do with the fasts in the 
time of the prophet. It would seem most probable, 
from the mode in w hich he has grouped them together, 
that the original purpose of all four was to commemo- 
rate the circumstances connected with the commence- 
ment of the captivity, and that the other events w*ere 
subsequently associated with them on the ground of 
some real or fancied coincidence of the time of occur- 
rence. As regards the fast of the fifth month, at least, 
it can hardly be doubted that the captive Jews applied 
it exclusively to the destruction of the Temple, and 
that St. Jerome was right in regarding as the reason 
of their request to he released from its observance the 
fact that it had no longer any purpose after the nev r 
Temple was begun. As this fast (as v T ell a's the three 
others) is still retained in the Jewish calendar, we must 


! infer either that the priests did not agree with the 
Babylonian Jews, or that the fast, having been iliseon- 
I tinued for a time, was renewed after the destruction 
of the Temple by Titus. 

The number of animal fasts in the present Jewish 
calendar has been multiplied to tv r entv-eight, a list of 
which is given by Reland (Antiq. p. 274). See Cal- 
endar. 

2. Public fasts W'erc occasionally proclaimed to ex- 
press national humiliation on account of sin or misfor- 
tune, and to supplicate divine favor in regard to some 
great undertaking or threatened danger. Tn the ease 
of public danger, the proclamation appears to have 

| been accompanied with the blowing of trumpets (Joel 
ii, 1-15 ; comp. Taanith , i, G). The following instances 
are recorded of strictly national fasts : Samuel gatli- 
! ered “all Israel” to Mizpeh and proclaimed a fast, per- 
j forming at the same time what seems to have been a 
| rite symbolical of purification, when the people eon- 
I fessed their sin in having worshipped Baalim and Asli- 
tarotli (1 Sam. vii, G ) ; Jelioshaphat appointed one 
“throughout all Judah” when he was preparing for 
v r ar against Moab and Ammon (2 Chron. xx, 3); in 
the reign of Jehoiakim, one v r as proclaimed for “all 
the people in Jerusalem, and all who came thither out 
of the cities of Judah,” w hen the prophecy of Jeremiah 
was publicly read by Baruch (Jer. xxxvi, 6-10 ; comp. 
Baruch i, 5) ; three days after the feast of Tabernacles, 
when the second Temple w r as completed, “ the children 
of Israel assembled with fasting, and with sackclothes 
| and earth upon them,” to hear the law r read, and to 
confess their sins (Neh. ix, 1). There are references 
! to general fasts in the prophets (Joel i, 14 ; ii, 15 ; Isa. 
1 viii), and two are noticed in the books of the Macca- 
j bees (1 Macc. iii, 46-47 ; 2 Macc. xiii, 10-12). 

There arc a considerable number of instances of cit- 
j ies and bodies of men observing fasts on occasions in 
which they w ere especially concerned. In the days of 
Phinehas, the grandson of Aaron, when the men of Ju- 
, dali had been defeated by those of Benjamin, they fast- 
I ed in making preparation for another battle (Jndg. xx, 
j 2G). David and his men fasted for a day on account 
of the death of Saul (2 Sam. i, 12), and the men of Ja- 
besh Gilead fasted seven days on Saul’s burial (1 Sam. 
i xxxi, 13). Jezebel, in the name of Aliab, appointed a 
j fust for the inhabitants of Jezreel, to render more strik- 
ing, as it v'ould seem, the punishment about to be in- 
flicted on Naboth (1 Kings xxi, 9-12). Ezra proclaim- 
ed a fast for his companions at the river of Ahava, 

I when he was seeking for God’s help and guidance in 
the work he was about to imdeitake (Ezra viii, 21-23). 
Esther, when she was going to intercede wdtli Ahasu- 
erus, commanded the Jews of Shushan neither to eat 
nor drink for three days (Esth. iv, 1G). A fast of great 
I strictness is recorded in the Scriptures as having been 
proclaimed by the heathen king of Nineveh to avert 
the destruction threatened by Jehovah (Jonah ii, 5 
-9). 

Public fasts expressly on account of unseasonable 
weather and of famine may perhaps be traced in the 
first and second chapters of Joel. In later times they 
assumed great importance, and form the main subject 
of the treatise Taanith in the Mishna. The Sanhe- 
drim ordered general fasts when the nation was threat- 
ened with any great evil, such as drought or famine 
(Josephus, Life , § 5G ; Taanith , i, 5), as was usual with 
the Romans in their supplications (Livy, iii, 7 ; x, 23). 

3. Private occasional fasts are recognised in one 
passage of the law (Numb, xxx, 13). The instances 
given of individuals fasting under the influence of 
grief, vexation, or anxiety are numerous (1 Sam, i, 7 . 
xx, 34; 2 Sam. iii, 35; xii, 16; 1 Kings xxi, 27 ; Ezra 
x, G; Neh. i, 4 ; Dan. x, 3). The fasts of forty da^vs 
of Moses (Exod. xxiv, 18 ; xxxiv, 28 ; Dent, ix, 18) 
and of Elijah (1 Kings xix, 8) are, of course, to be re- 
garded as special acts of spiritual discipline, faint 

i though wonderful shadow's of that fast in the wildei* 


FAST 


489 


FAST 


ness of Judaea, in which all true fasting finds its mean- 
ing (Matt, iv, 1, 2). 

After the exile private fasts became very frequent 
(Lightfoot, p. 313), awaiting the call of no special oc- 
casion, but entering as a regular part of the current 
religious worship (Sueton. Aug. 76; Tacit. Hist, v, 4, 
3). In Judith viii, 6 we read that Judith fasted all the 
da} r s of her widowhood, “save the eves of the sabbaths, 
and the sabbaths, and the eves of the new moons, and 
the new moons, and the feasts and the solemn days 
of the house of Israel.” In Tobit xii prayer is de- 
clared to be good with fasting; see also Luke ii, 37; 
Matt, ix, 14. The parable of the Pharisee and Publi- 
can (Luke xviii, 9; comp. Matt, ix, 14) shows how 
much the Pharisees were given to voluntary and pri- 
vate fasts — “ T fast twice a week.” The first was on 
the fifth da)' of the week, on which Moses ascended to 
the top of Mount Sinai; the second was on the sec- 
ond day, on which he came down ( Taarith , ii, 9; Ili- 
eros. Megillah , 75, 1). This bi-weekly Listing has also 
been adopted in the Christian Church; but Monday 
and Thursday were changed to Wednesday and Friday 
(feriu quarto, et sexto ), as commemorative of the be- 
trayal and crucifixion of Christ. Of a similar semi- 
occasional character was the First-boim sons' fast 
(“1122 p;:;?), on the day preceding the feast of Pass- 
over, in commemoration of the fact that while God on 
that occasion smote all the first-born of the Egyptians, 
he spared those of the house of Israel (comp. Exod. xii, 
29, etc.; Sopherim, xxi, 3). See First-born. The 
Esscnes and the Therapeutic also were much given to 
such observances (Philo, Vit. Contempt, p. C13; Euseb. 
Prop. Evan, ix, 3). Fasts were considered a useful 
exercise in preparing the mind for special religious 
impressions; as in Dan. x, 2 sq. (see also Acts xiii, 3; 
xiv, 23). From Matt, xvii, 21 : u Howbeit this kind 
(of daemons) goeth not out but by prayer and Listing, ” 
it would appear that the practice under consideration 
was considered in the days of Christ to act in certain 
special cases as an exorcism. 

Fasting (as stated above) was accompanied by the 
ordinary signs of grief among the Israelites, as may 
be seen in 1 Macc. iii, 47. The abstinence was either 
partial or total. In the case of the latter food was en- 
tirely foregone, but this ordinarily took place only in 
Lists of short duration ; and abstinence from food in 
Eastern climes is more easy and less detrimental (if 
not in some cases positively useful) than keeping from 
food would be with us in these cold, damp Northern 
regions (Esth. iv, 1G). In the case of partial absti- 
nence the time was longer, the denial in degree less. 
"When Daniel (x, 2) was “ mourning three full weeks,” 
lie ate no “ pleasant bread, neither cam e flesh nor wine 
in his mouth.” There does not appear to have been 
any fixed and recognised periods during which these 
fasts endured. From one day to forty days fasts were 
observed. The latter period appears to have been re- 
garded with feelings of peculiar sanctity, owing, doubt- 
less, to the above instances in Jewish history. There 
are monographs, entitled l)e jejuniis Jlebraoorum , by 
Opitz (Kil. 1680), Peringer (Holm. 1684), and Lund 
(Abo®, 1696). 

II. In Xew Testament. — We have already seen how 
qualified the sanction was which Moses gave to the 
observance of Listing as a religious duty. In the same 
spirit which actuated him, the prophets bore testimony 
against the lament able abuses to which the practice 
was turned in the lapse of time and with the increase I 
of social corruption (Tsa. lviii, 4 sq. ; .Ter. xiv, 12; 
Zech. vii, 5). Continuing the same species of influ- 
ence and perfecting that spirituality in religion which j 
Moses began, our Lord rebuked the Pharisees sternly 1 
for their outward and hypocritical pretences in the 
fasts which they observed (Matt, vi, 16 sq.), and actu- 
ally abstained from appointing any fast whatever as a 
part of his own religion. In Matt, ix, 14, the question i 


| of the reason of this avoidance is expressly put — “Why 
1 do we (the disciples of John) and the Pharisees fast 
oft, but thy disciples List not?” The answer shows 
the voluntary character of fasting in the Christian 
Church — “Can the children of the brideclianiber last?” 
It is true that a period is alluded to when these chil- 
dren “shall fast;” but the general scope of the pas- 
sage, taken in connection with the fact that Christ’s 
disciples fasted not, and with the other fact, that while 
John (Matt, xi, 18, 19) “came neither eating nor 
drinking,” the Son of man “came eating and drink- 
ing,” clearly shows that our Lord, as he did not posi- 
tively enjoin religious fasting, so by the assertion that 
a time would come when, being deprived of the (per- 
sonal presence of the) bridegroom, his disciples would 
fast, meant to intimate the approach of a period of 
general mourning, and employed the term “fast” de- 
rivatively to signify rather sorrow of mind than any 
corporeal self-denial (Neander, Lcben Jesu, p. 231, 805). 
In his sermon on the mount, however (Matt, vi, 17), 
while correcting the self-righteous austerity of Phari- 
saic fasting, he clearly allows the practice itself, but 
leaves the frequency, extent, and occasion of its per- 
formance to the private conscience and circumstances 
of each individual. 

That the early Christians observed the ordinary 
fasts which the public practice of their day sanctioned 
is clear from more than one passage in the New-Tes- 
tament Scriptures (Acts xiii, 2 ; xiv, 23 ; 2 Cor. vi, 5) ; 
but in this they probably did nothing more than yield 
obedience, as in general they thought themselves 
bound to do, to the law of their fathers so long as the 
Mosaic institutions remained entire. Although the 
great body of the Christian Church held themselves 
free from all ritual and ceremonial observances when 
God in his providence had brought Judaism to a termi- 
nation in the rasure of the holy city and the closing 
of the Temple, yet the practice of Listing thus origin- 
ated might easily and nnobservedly have been trans- 
mitted from year to year and from age to age, and 
that the rather because so large a portion of the disci- 
ples being Jews (to say nothing of the influence of the 
Ebionites in the primitive Church), thousands must 
have been accustomed to fasting from the earliest days 
of their existence, either in their own practice, or the 
. practice of their fathers, relatives, and associates (comp, 
j Cor. vii, 5). — Kitto, s. v ; Smith, s. v. See Fasting. 

Literature. — Ciaceonius, De jejuniis apnd antinuos 
(Rom. 1599); Tiegenhorn, Descriptio jejuniorum (Jen. 
1607); Drexel, I)e j \ junio (Antw. 1637) ; Dallacus, De je- 
jnniis et Quadragesima ( Dauentr. 1G54) ; Ortlob, De rita 
jejuniorum (Yiteb. 1656); Lochner, De jejunio contra 
p 07 itificios (Rost. 1G5G) ; Launoy, De cilorum delec.tu in 
jejuniis (Par. 16G3) ; Funke, De jejuniis (Altenb. 16G3) ; 
Nicolai, De jejunio Christiano (Par. 1G67); Sommer, De 
jejuniorum natura (Jen. 1G70) ; Sagittarius, De jejuniis 
veterum (Jen. 1672) ; Varenius, Jejunium Christianorum 
(Rost. 1684); Salden, De jejuniis (in Otia theol. [Amst. 
1684], p. 658 sq.) ; Thomasin, Traite des jeunrs (Paris, 
1G90) ; Iloopcr, Discourse concerning Lent (Lend. 1696) ; 
Ortlob, De jejunio Mosis quadra gesimoli (Lips. 1701); 
Andrv, Le regime de curime (Par. 1710); Planner, De 
jejuniis Christianor. (in Obss. sacr. ii, 324-520) ; Mabil- 
lon, Jeune de V Epphanie (in (Eurrcs posih. i, 431 sq.) ; 
Hildebrand, De jejunio (Ilelmst. 1719); Bohmer, De 
jure cira jejunantes (Hal. 1722) ; Sehutz, De quai. tem- 
porum jejuniis (Wcmig. 172.9) ; Yoll a n d , De jeju ni.s Sab- 
bat ids (Rost. 1724); Muratori, De qnat . tempoi 'um jeju- 
niis (in A need, ii, 246 sq.) ; Bernhold, De jejunio partial* 
(Altd. 1725); Waleh, De jejunio quadragesimali (Jena, 
1727); Bernliold, De jejunio spirituoli (Altorf. 173G); 
Carpzov, De jejuniis Sabbaticis (Rost. 1741); Seclcn, 
De j juniis Sobbntkis (Rost. 1741-2) ; Becker, De jeju - 
niis vett. Christianorum (Leucop. 1742) : Ehrlich, De 
Quadragesimal jejunio (Lips. 1744); Riesling, De xero- 
phagia op. Jit lxos et Christianos (Lips. 1746) ; Seidel, De 
Hieronymo, jejunii suasore (Lond. 1747) ; Schickedanz, 


FASTIDIUS 


400 


FASTIXG 


Dej'jnirio Sabbatico (Scrvest. 17G8) ; Korner, Jejunium 
Christo proposition (hips. 1770) ; Anon. Gesch. (hr Eas- 
tenaustaltcn (Yien. 1787); Anon. - I pologie dujeune (Par. 
and Genov. 17!>0) ; Van Falckenhansen, Ueb.d. 40 tuff. 
Eastenyebct (Augsburg, 1800) : P»rann, Worth d. Fastens 
(Yion. 1800) ; Morin, Jerme chez les anciens (in Mem. de j 
VAcad. des Jnscr. iv, 29 sq.). On fasting in the Chris- 1 
tian Church, see Fasting. 

Fastidlus, Priscus, an English writer, and, ac- 
cording to some authorities, bishop of London in the 
5th century, lie is proved by Ilolsteuius to be the 
author of a treatise found in Augustine’s works, vol. 
ix, and published by Holstenius (Pome, 1GG3) under 1 
the title De Vita Christiana et Ykluitute. Its precepts 
are good and practical, but Tillemont (Mini, xv, 16) 
considers it as tending to Pelagianism, inasmuch as it 
reduces Christianity to love of God and our neighbors, 
including good works. It is given, with prolegome- 
na, in Galland, Bib. Vet. Pair. t. ix, and is reprinted 
in Migne, Patrol. Lat. 1, 377 sq. — Clarke, Succession 
of Sac. Lit. ii, 152; Cave, Ilist. Lit . i, 401. 

Fasting in the Christian Church. In the ar- 
ticle Fast we have given an account of Jewish fast- 
ing, and also of the notices of fasting in the N. T. 
Wc confine ourselves in this article to a history of 
fasting in the Christian Church. 

I. Early Church. — Fasting and abstinence have been 
practised in the Christian Church from the begin- 
ning [see Abstinence] as means of self-discipline. 
Where the ascetic spirit has prevailed, fasting has 
been used as a means of mortification and penance. 
See Asceticism; Mortification; Penance. In 
the N. T. fasting appears either (1) as a token of sor- 
row or repentance, or (2) as a means of preparation 
for and aid in the discharge of spiritual duties (e. g. 
prayer, etc.). It was free from superstition ; and the 
27. T. nowhere makes fasting, of itself, a means of 
grace. But the ascetic tendency in the early Church 
led to reliance on fasting, etc., as not only helps to, 
but substitutes for, the inward and spiritual life. The 
theory which placed the origin and seat of sin in the 
body [see Sin] also tended to give value to the prac- 
tice of fasting. It came at last to be considered as an 
effectual means of securing forgiveness of sin. The 
earliest notices of fisting in the Christian writers are 
in a better vein. “The days of holy consecration, of 
penitence and prayer, which individual Christians ap- 
pointed for their own use, were oftentimes also a sort 
of fast-days. That they might be less disturbed by 
sense while their minds were intent on holy things, 
they were accustomed on such days to confine their 
bodily wants within stricter limits than usual, or else 
to fast entirely; where we must take into considera- 
tion the peculiar nature of that hot climate in which 
Christianity first began to spread. Whatever they 
saved by their abstinence on these days was appropri- 
ated to the maintenance of the poor brethren” (Nean- 
der, Church History , Torrcy’s, ii, 274). 

We cite some of the Apostolical Fathers. Hennas 
(1st century), Shepherd (Simll. v, ch. iii) : “This fast- 
ing is very good, provided that the commandments of 
the Lord he observed. Observe ns follows the fasting 
you intend to keep. First of all, refrain both from 
speaking and from hearing what is wrong ; and cleanse 
thy heart from all pollution, from all revengeful feel- 
ings, and from all covetousness; and on the day thou 
fastest content thyself with bread, vegetables, and wa- 
ter, and thank God for these. But reckon up what 
thy meal on this day would have cost thee, and give 
the amount to some widow, or orphan, or to the poor. 
Ilappv for thee if, with thy children and whole house- 
hold, thou observest these things.” (See also Simil. 
v, ch. i.) The Epistle of Barnabas declares -that the 
Jewish fasts are not true firsts, nor acceptable unto 
God, and cites Isa. lviii, 4-9, as giving the true fast 
“which God hath chosen.” The Epistle of Polycarp \ 


(2d century) exhorts Christians “ to return to the word 
handed down from the beginning, watching unto pray- 
er, and persevering in fasting” (ch. vii). Justin Mar- 
tyr (f 1G5) also cites Isa. lviii as giving the “true 
fast,” and applies it to practical life. He speaks, how- 
ever, of fasting being joined with prayer in the admin- 
istration of baptism (Dial. c. Trypk. ch. xv). Ircnrcus 
(f 200) speaks of the fast before Easter, and says, “ Not 
only is the dispute respecting the day, but also re- 
specting the manner of fasting. For some think they 
ought to fast only one day, some two, seme more 
days ; some compute their day as consisting of forty 
hours night and day; and this diversity existing 
among those that observe it is not a matter that has 
just sprung up in our times, but long ago among those 
before us, who perhaps, not having ruled with suffi- 
cient strictness, established the practice that arose 
from their simplicity and inexperience. And yet with 
all, these maintained peace, and we have maintained 
peace with one another; and the very difference in 
our fasting establishes the unanimity in our faith” 
(Eusebius, Ch. History , v, 24). Clement of Alexandria 
(f 220?) notices the fact that many kinds of pagan 
worship required celibacy and abstinence from meat 
and wine in their priests; that there were rigid ascet- 
ics among the Indians, namely, the Samaneans, and 
hence argued that usages which may cxi>t also in 
other religions, and even be combined with supersti- 
tion, cannot, in themselves eonsideied, be peculiarly 
Christian. lie then adds: “Paul declares that the 
kingdom of heaven consists not in meat and drink, 
neither therefore in abstaining from wine and flesh, 

: but in righteousness and peace, and joy in the Ilcly 
Ghost. As humility is shown, not by the castigation 
of the body, but by gentleness of disposition, so also 
abstinence is a virtue of the soul, consisting not in 
that which is without, but in that which is within 
the man. Abstinence has reference not to seme one 
thing alone, not merely to pleasure, but it is absti- 
! nonce also to despise money, to tame the tongue, and 
to obtain by reason the dominion over sin” (Strom, lib. 
iii). Clement also speaks of weekly fasts as the usage 
of the Church. It appears to be clear that weekly 
fasts were observed in the Church before the end of 
the 2d century, but that they wore not enforced as 
essential means of grace. The Montanists were rig- 
| orous to excess with regard to fasting. “Besides the 
usual fasts, they observed special acrejhagu e (nridus 
rictus ), as they were called ; seasons of two weeks for 
eating only dry, or, properly, uneo< ked food, bread, 
salt, and water. The Church refused to sanction these 
excesses as a general rule, but allowed ascetics to car- 
ry fasting oven to extremes. A confessor in Lyons, 
for example, lived on bread and water alone, but for- 
sook that austerity when reminded that he gave of- 
fence to other Christians bv so despising the gifts of 
God” (Schaft’, Ch. Hist, i, § 90). TertuIIian (f c. 220), 
in his De Jcjurriis , complains of the little attention 
paid by the Catholic Church to the practice of fasting, 
thereby showing that liberty of judgment was exer- 
cised with regard to it. Origen speaks of Wednes- 
days and Fridays in the Church at Alexandria as fast- 
days, on the ground that onr Lord was betrayed cn a 
Wednesday and crucified on a Friday (Horn, x on Le- 
viticus'). 

By the Cth century fasting ceased to lie a voluntary 
exercise; for by t lie second Council of Orleans, A.D. 
541, it was decreed that any one neglecting to ol serve 
the stated times of abstinence should be treated as an 
offender against the laws of the Church. In the Stli 
century it was regarded as meritorious, and the breach 
of the observance subjected the offender to the penalty 
of excommunication. In later times, some persons 
who ate flesh during prescribed seasons of abstinence 
were punished with the loss of their teeth. These se- 
verities were, however, subsequently relaxed, and per- 
mission was given to use all kinds of food, except fleBh,. 


491 


FASTING 


FASTING 


eggs, cheese, anti wine. Afterwards flesh only was | 
prohibited, eggs, cheese, and wine being allowed ; an 
indulgence which was censured by the Greek Church, 
and led to a quarrel between it and the Western. The 
following fasts generally obtained: 1. Lent , the annual 
fast of forty days before Easter. At first the duration 
of this fast was forty hours ; in the time of Gregory I 
it was thirty-six days ; but afterwards, either by Greg- 
ory 1 or Gregory II (8th century), in imitation of the 
fasts of Moses, Elias, and our Saviour, it was extended 
to forty days. See Lent ; Quadragesima. 2. Quar- 
terly fasts, which cannot be traced bevoml the 5tli cen- 
tury, though Bellarmin asserts that they dated from 
the* apostles’ time. 3. A fast of three digs before the 
festival of the Ascension , introduced by Mamercus of 
*Yienne (5th century). In some places it was not cel- 
ebrated till after Whitsuntide. It was called jejunium 
rogationum , or jejunium litaniarum , the feast of roga- 1 
tions or litanies (hence rogation-days), on account of 
certain litanies sung on those days (Bingham, bk. xxi, 
c. ii, § <s). 4. Monthly fasts, a day in every month, ex- 
cept July and August, being selected. 5. Fasts before 
festivals , instead of the ancient vigils, which were abol- 
ished in the 5th century. 6. Weekly fasts, on Wednes- , 
days and Fridays, entitled stationes, from the practice 
of soldiers keeping guard, which was called statio by | 
the Bom ans. 7. There were also occasional lasts, ap- 1 
pointed by ecclesiastical authority, in times of great 
danger, emergency, or distress (Tcrtull. De Jejun. c. 
13). “ The custom of the Church at the end of the 4th 
eenturv may be collected from the following passage 
of Epiphauius: ; In the whole Christian Church, the 
following fast-days throughout the year are regularly 
observed. On Wednesdays and Fridays we fast until 
the ninth hour (i. e. three o’clock in the afternoon), ex- 
cept during the interval of fifty days between Easter 
and Whitsuntide, in which it is usual neither to kneel 
nor fast at all. Besides this, there is no fasting on the 
Epiphany or Nativity, if those days should fall on a 
Wednesday or Friday. But those persons who espe- 
cially devote themselves to religious exercises (the 
monks) fast also at other times when they please, ex- 
cept on Sundays and during the fifty days between 
Easter and Whitsuntide. It is also the practice of the 
Church to observe the forty days’ fast before the sa- 
cred week. But on Sundays there is no fasting, even 
during the last-mentioned period (compare Doctr. de 
fide).' But even at this late date there was no uni- 
versal agreement in the practice of the Church in this 
matter, neither had fasts been established by law. The 
custom, so far as it existed, had been silently intro- 
duced into the Church, and its observance was alto- 
gether voluntary. This fasting consisted, at first, in 
abstinence from food until three o’clock in the after- 
noon. A custom was afterwards introduced, probably 
by the Montanists, affecting the kind of food to be 
taken, which was limited to bread, salt, and water” 
(Siegel, Alterthfimer, ii, 77, translated by Coleman, An- 
ci nt Christianity, p. 445). 

11. Roman and Greek Churches. — The Church of 
Borne prescribes the times and character of fasts by 
law (Condi. Trident, session xxv, De delect, ciborum). 
“ Moreover, the holy council exhorts all pastors, and 
beseeches them by the most holy coming of our Lord 
and Saviour, that as good soldiers of Jesus Christ they 
assiduously recommend to all the faithful the observ- 
ance of all the institutions of the holy Roman Church, 
the mother and mistress of all churches, and of the de- 
crees of this and other oecumenical councils; and that 
they use all diligence to promote obedience to all their 
commands, and especially to those which relate to the 
mortification of the flesh, as the choice of meats and 
fasts.” The Church commands fasts, and disobedi- 
ence to her commands is sin. “See Abstract of the 
Douay Cateckism (p. 44) : ‘ Slighting or neglecting the 
precepts of the Church, and living in habits of break- 
ing cue fasts commanded, or of eating meat on Satur- 


days, or other days of abstinence, without just dispen- 
sation, were sins which excluded from the benefits of 
the jubilee, unless confessed and forsaken in the same 
manner as drunkenness, swearing, and debauchery’ 
(Instructions and Directions, etc., p. xxiv). But a papal 
dispensation changes the nature of things ; the Span- 
iard who has paid the pope for a flesh lull may feast 
even in Lent; while his neighbor, who has neglected 
or declined to purchase the privilege, cannot eat an 
egg or drink a spoonful of milk during that period 
without committing mortal sin” (Cramp, Text-book of 
Popery, chap. xiv). Among the “satisfactory” works 
of “ penance” in the Roman Church, fasting goes along 
with prayer and almsgiving (Dens, Theoloefa , vi, De 
Satisf. 17G). The Church distinguishes between days 
of fasting and of abstinence. On the former but one 
meal, and that not of flesh, is tasted during twenty- 
four hours; on the latter, flesh only is abstained from. 
The following is the distribution of Church fasts as 
given in bishop Challoner’s Garden oj the Soul: 1. The 
forty days of Lent. 2. The Ember Days, being the 
Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of the first week in 
Lent, of Whitsun Week, of the third week in Septem- 
ber, and of the third week in Advent. 8. The Wed- 
nesdays and Fridays of the four weeks in Advent. 4. 
The vigils or eves of Whitsuntide, of the feasts of St. 
Peter and St. Paul, of the Assumption of the Blessed 
Virgin Mary, of All Saints, and of Christmas Day. 
When any fasting day falls upon a Sunday, it is to be 
observed on the Saturday before. Abstinence D tys . — 
1. The Sundays in Lent. 2. The three Rogation Days, 
being the Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday before 
Ascension Day. 3. St. Mark, April 25, unless it falls 



be vigils; but should Christmas Day fall upon a Fri- 
d.v or Saturday, it is not of abstinence. In the Prac- 
tical Catechism upon the Sundays , Feasts , and Fasts, the 
reason assigned for observing St. Mark’s Day as a day 
of abstinence is, that bis disciples, the first Christians 
of Alexandria, under his own conduct were eminent 
for their mortification ; moreover, that St. Gregory the 
Great, the apostle of England, first set it apart in mem- 
ory of the cessation of a mortality in his time at Rome. 
All Fridays and Saturdays, except those which fall be- 
tween Dec. 25 and Feb. 2, are days of Abstinence; but 
in the United States there is a dispensation of Satur- 
days for twenty years from 1840. The Fasting days 
are, every day in Lent except Sunday ; the Ember 
Days ; the vigils of Pentecost, Assumption, All Saints, 
and Christmas. 

In the Greek Church fasting is kept with great se- 
verity. There are four principal fasts. That of Lent, 
commencing according to the old style; one, begin- 
ning in the week after Whitsuntide, and ending on 
June 20, so that it varies in length, and is called the 
Fast of the holy Apostles ; one, for a fortnight before 
the Assumption of the Virgin (August 15), which is 
observed even to the prohibition of oil, except on the 
day of the Transfiguration (August G), on which day 
both oil and fish may be eaten ; and one forty days be- 
fore Christmas. 

III. Protestant Churches . — In these, fasting is not 
made imperative as a term of membership in the 
Church, but is generally recommended as a Christian 
duty, especially under circumstances of national or 
individual affliction. 

1. Church oj England . — “ In the reign of queen Eliz- 
abeth there was a royal ordinance for fasting; not, 
however, so much with a religions view as for the en- 
couragement of the fisheries. The Church hae only 
so far recognised the custom in its ecclesiastical law 
as to retain the fast-days and prayers, but lias pre- 
scribed no regulation of diet. Abstinence from food 
is not, therefore, the duty which it enjoins on its mem- 
bers, but whatever each finds to be best adapted for 
self-discipline, and most suitable under his circum- 


FASTING 


492 


FASTING 


stances for a repentant spirit. Mention is made of 
abstinence in the ‘ Collect for the first Sunday in 
Lent but it is not the abstaining from food, or par- 
ticular kinds of food, but such abstinence as shall sub- 
due the flesh to the spirit, i. e. the abstaining habitu- 
ally from excess” (Eden). No legal distinction is 
drawn between fasting and abstinence; so Wheatley, 
(On Common Prayer , eh. v, § 4): “In the Church of 
Koine, fasting and abstinence admit of a distinction, 
and different days are appointed for each of them. 
Hut 1 do not find that the Church of England makes 
any difference between them. It is true, in the title 
of the table of vigils, etc., she mentions ‘fasts and 
days of abstinence’ separately; but when she comes 
to enumerate the particulars, she calls them all ‘ days 
of fasting or abstinence,’ without distinguishing the 
one from the other. Nor does she anywhere point 
out to us what food is proper for such times or seasons, 
or seem to place any part of religion in abstaining 
from any particular kinds of meat. It is true, by a 
statute still in force, flesh is prohibited on fast-days; 
but this is declared to be for a political reason, viz. for 
the intr^ase of cattle, and for the encouragement of 
fishery and navigation. Not but that the statute allows 
that abstinence is serviceable to virtue, and helps to 
subdue the body to the mind ; but the distinction of 
clean and unclean meats determined, it says, with the 
Mosaic law ; and therefore it sets forth that days and 
meats are in themselves all of the same nature and 
quality as to moral consideration, one not having any 
inherent holiness above the other. And for this rea- 
son it is that our Church, as I have said, nowhere 
makes any difference in the kinds of meat; but, as far 
as she determines, she seems to recommend an entire 
abstinence from all manner of food till the time of 
fasting be over; declaring in her homilies that fast- 
ing (by the decree of the six hundred and thirty fa- 
thers, assembled at the Council of Chaleedcn, which 
was one of the four first general councils, who ground- 
ed their determination upon the sacred Scriptures, and 
long-continued usage or practice both of the prophets 
and other godly persons before the coming of Christ ; 
and also of the apostles and other devout men in the 
New Testament) is a withholding of meat, drink, and 
all natural food from the body for the determined time 
of fasting.” The fixed days appointed by the Church 
of England for fasting and abstinence are the fol- 
lowing : 1. The forty days of Lent. 2. The Ember 
Days at the four seasons, being the Wednesday, Fri- 
day, and Saturday after the first Sunday in Lent, the 
feast of Pentecost, September 14, and December 13. 
3. The three Pogation Days, being the Monday, Tues- 
day, and Wednesday before Holy Thursday, or the 
Ascension of our Lord. 4. All the Fridays in the 
year except Christmas Day. These days are mention- 
ed in 2 and 3 Edward VI, c. 19, and in 5 Elizabeth, c. 
5; and by 12 Charles II, c. 14, January 30 is ordained 
to be a day of fasting and repentance for the “martyr- 
dom” of Charles I. Put an act passed in 1859, the 
22 Victoria, repeals all enactments requiring special 
Church service to be observed on January 30, May 29, 
November 5, and October 23. Other days of fasting 
are occasionally appointed by royal proclamation (An- 
cyclopaedia Metropolitan , s. v.). 

2. Lutheran Church.' — Luther by no means rejected 
or discountenanced fasting, but discarded the idea that 
it could be meritorious (Comm, on Matt, vi, 1G). The 
Augsburg Confession (art. xxvi) repudiates “diversity 
of meats” and other traditions; but adds, “The charge, 
however, that we forbid the mortification of our sinful 
propensities, as Jovian asserts, is groundless. For our 
writers have always given instruction concerning the 
cross which it is the duty of Christians to bear. We 
moreover teach that it is the duty of every man, by 
fasting and other exercises, to. avoid giving any occa- 
sion to sin, but not to merit grace by such works. 
But this watchfulness over our body is to be observed 


always, not on particular days onh r . On this subject 
Christ says, Take heed to jmurselves lest at any time 
1 your hearts be overcharged "with surfeiting (Luke 
xxi, 34). Again, The devils are not cast out but by 
fasting aud prayer (Matt, xvii, 21). And Paul says, 

I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection. 
(1 Cor. ix, 27). By which he wishes to intimate that 
this bodily discipline is not designed to merit grace, 
but to keep the body in a suitable condition for the 
several duties of our calling. We do not, therefore, 
object to fasting itself, but to the fact that it is repre- 
sented as a necessary duty, and that specific days have 
been fixed for its performance.” 

3. Calvin. — The views of Calvin on fasting have been 
very generally adopted in the Iieformed churches : 
“Therefore let us say something of fasting, because 
many, for want of knowing its usefulness, undervalue 
its necessity, and some reject it as almost superfluous; 
while, on the other hand, where the use of it is not 
well understood, it easily degenerates into supersti- 
tion. Holy and legitimate fasting is directed to three 
ends, for we practise it either as a restraint on the 
flesh, to preserve it from licentiousness, or as a prepa- 
ration for prayers or pious meditations, or as a testi- 
mony of our humiliation in the presence of God, when 
we are desirous of confessing our guilt before him. 
The first is not often contemplated in public fasting, 
because all men have not the same constitution or 
health of body ; therefore it is rather more applicable 
to private fasting. The second end is common to both, 
such preparation for prayer being necessary to the 
whole Church, as well as to every one of the faithful in 
particular. The same may be said of the third, for it 
will sometimes happen that God will afflict a whole na- 
tion with war, pestilence, or some other calamity; un- 
der such a common scourge, it behooves all the people 
to make a confession of their guilt. When the hand 
of the Lord chastises an individual, he ought to make 
a similar confession, either alone or with his family. 
It is true that this acknowledgment lies principally in 
the disposition of the heart; but when the hearths af- 
fected as it ought to be, it can scarcely avoid breaking 
out into the external expression, and most especially 
when it promotes the general edification, in order that 
all, by a public confession of their sin, may unitedly 
acknowledge the justice of God, and may mutually 
animate each other by the influence of example. 
Wherefore fasting, as it is a sign of humiliation, is of 
more frequent use in public than among individuals 
in private, though it is common to both, as we have 
already observed. With regard to the discipline, there- 
fore, of which we are now treating, whenever suppli- 
cations are to be presented to God on any important 
occasion, it would be right to enjoin the union of fast- 
ing with prayer. Thus, when the faithful at Antioch 
‘ laid their hands on Paul and Barnabas,’ the better 
j to recommend their very important ministry to God, 
they ‘fasted’ as well as ‘ prayed.’ So, also, when Paul 
land Barnabas afterwards ‘ordained ciders in every 
| church,’ they used to ‘pray with fasting.’ In this 
j kind of fasting their only object was that they might 
j be more lively and unembarrassed in prayer. And 
we find by experience that after a full meal the mind 
! does not aspire towards God so as to be able to en- 
ter on prayer, and to continue in it with seriousness 
| and ardor of affection. So we arc to understand what 
Luke says of Anna, that ‘ she served God with fast- 
ings and prayers.’ For he does not place the worship 
! of God in fasting, but signifies that by such means 
that holy woman habituated herself to a constancy in 
prayer. Such was the fasting of Nehemiah, when he 
prayed to God with more than common fervor for the 
deliverance of his people. For this cause Paul de- 
clares it to 1 c expedient for the faithful to practise a 
temporary abstinence from lawful enjoyments, that 
. they may be more at liberty to ‘give themselves ro 
| fasting and prayer;’ for by connecting fasting with 


FASTING 


493 


FASTING 


prayer, as an assistance to it, lie signifies that fasting 
is of no importance in itself any further than as it is 
directed to this end. Besides, from the direction which 
he gives in that place to husbands and wives, to ‘ren- 
der to’ each other ‘due benevolence,’ it is clear that 
he is not speaking of daily prayers, but of such as re- 
quire peculiar earnestness of attention. That there 
may be no mistake respecting the term, let us define 
what fasting is ; for we do not understand it to denote 
mere temperance and abstinence in eating and drink- 
ing, but something more. The life of the faithful, in- 
deed, ought to be so regulated by frugality and sobri- 
ety as to exhibit, as far as possible, the appearance of 
a perpetual hist. But besides this, there is another 
temporary fast, when we retrench ai^thing from our 
customary mode of living, either for a day or for any 
certain time, and prescribe to ourselves a more than 
commonly rigid and severe abstinence from food. This 
restriction consists in three things — in time, in quality, 
and in quantity of food. By time I mean that we 
should perform, while fasting, those exercises on ac- 
count of which fasts are instituted. As, for example, 
if any one fast for solemn prayer, he should not break 
his fast till he has attended to it. The quality con- 
sists in an entire abstinence from dainties, and content 
with simpler and humbler fare, that our appetite may 
not be stimulated by delicacies. The rule of quantity 
is that we eat more sparingly and slightly than usual, 
only for necessity, and not for pleasure. But it is nec- 
essary for us, above all things, to be particularly on 
our guard against the approaches of superstition, which 
has heretofore been a great source of injury to the 
Church. For it were far better that fasting should be 
entirely disused, than that the practice should be dili- 
gently observed, and at the same time corrupted with 
false and pernicious opinions, into which the world is 
constantly falling, unless it be prevented by the great- 
est fidelity and prudence of the pastors. The first cau- 
tion necessary, and which they should be constantly 
urging, is that suggested by Joel: ‘ Rend your heart, 
and not your garments;’ that is, they should admon- 
ish the people that God sets no value on fasting un- 
less it be accomp inied by a corresponding disposition 
of heart, a real displeasure against sin, sincere self-ab- 
horrence, true humiliation, and unfeigned grief arising j 
from a fear of God; and that fasting is of no use on 
any other account than as an additional and subordi- 
nate assistance to these things ; for nothing is more 
abominable to God than when men attempt to impose 
upon him bjr the presentation of signs and external 
appearances instead of purity of heart. Therefore he 
severely reprobates this hypocrisy in the Jews, who im- 
agined they had satisfied God merely by having fast- 
ed, while they cherished impious and impure thoughts 
in their hearts. ‘ Is it such a fast, saitli the Lord, that 
I have chosen ?’ The fasting of hypocrites, therefore, 
is not only superfluous and useless fatigue, but the 
greatest abomination. Allied to this is another evil, 
which requires the most vigilant caution, lest it be 
considered as a meritorious act, or a species of divine 
service. For as it is a thing indifferent in itself, and 
possesses no other value than it derives from those ends 
to which it ought to be directed, it is most pernicious 
superstition to confound it with w'orks commanded by 
God, and necessary in themselves, without reference to 
any ulterior object. Such w r as formerly the folly of the 
IManichaeansJn the refutation of whom Augustine most 
clearly shows that fasting is to he held in no other es- 
timation than on account of those ends which I here 
mention, and that it receives no approbation from God 
unless it be practised for their sake. The third error is 
not so impious indeed, yet is pregnant with danger, to 
enforce it with extreme rigor as one of the principal 
duties, and to extol it with extravagant encomiums, 
so that men imagine themselves to have performed a 
work of peculiar excellence when they have fasted. 
In this respect I dare not wholly excuse the ancient 


fathers from having sown some seeds of superstition, 
and given occasion to the tyranny which afterwards 
arose. Their writings contain some sound and judi- 
cious sentiments on the subject of fasting, but they 
; also contain extravagant praises, which elevate it to a 
rank among the principal virtues. And the supersti- 
tious observance of Lent had at that time generally 
prevailed, because the common people considered them- 
selves as performing an eminent act of obedience to 
God, and the pastors commended it as a holy imitation 
of Christ ; whereas it is plain that Christ fasted, not to 
set an example to others, but in order that by such an 
introduction to the preaching of the Gospel, he might 
prove the doctrine not to he a human invention, but a 
revelation from heaven” (Calvin, Institutes , bk. iv, ch. 
xii, § 15-20). The Westminster Confession declares that 
“solemn fastings” are, “in their times and seasons,” 
to be used in a holy and religious manner (xxi, v) ; 
and the Westminster Catechism makes “religious fast- 
ing” one of the duties required in the second com- 
mandment (quest. 109). 

In Scotland there is generally a yearly fast “ap- 
pointed by the kirk-session of the Established Church 
of the parish, or by concurrence of kirk-sessions in 
towms, but generally by use and wont fixed as to their 
date. The fast-day is always some day of the w r eek 
preceding the Communion Sunday , or Sunday set apart 
in the Presbyterian churches for the Lord's Supper. 
It is usually appointed as a day for ‘fasting, humilia- 
tion, and prayer.’ Business is generally suspended, 
shops shut as on a Sunday, and churches opened for 
public worship. By an act of Parliament passed not 
many years since, factories are prohibited from carry- 
ing oil work on the parish fast-day; but, in conse- 
quence of the ecclesiastical divisions in Scotland, it 
has become more common than it once was for agri- 
cultural and other kinds of w r ork to be carried on” 
(Chambers, Encyclopedia , s. v.). 

America. — The New England Puritans rejected the 
ancient ecclesiastical fast-days. The Pilgrim fathers 
observed “seasons of fasting and prayer” before sail- 
ing from Europe, and after their arrival in America. 
They admitted the right and duty of the civil rulers 
to set apart days for fasting and prayer. This right 
has been recognised, and the duty observed, in most 
states of the American Union. During the Civil War 
(1SG1-5) the President of the United States appointed 
days of national fasting, which were generally ob- 
served by all the churches. The Methodist Episcopal 
Church enjoins “ fasting, or abstinence ,” upon the peo- 
ple in the “General Rules” ( Discipline , pt. i, ch. i, § 
3); advises weekly fasts to her clergy (pt. ii, ch. ii, § 
3); and directs that “a fast be held in every society 
on the Friday preceding every quarterly meeting” (pt. 
ii, ch. ii, § 17). The Presbyterian Church adopts the 
doctrine of the Westminster Confession on fasting (see 
above); makes “public solemn fasting’’ one of the 
ordinances established by Christ in the Church ( Form 
of Government, ch. vii); ordains a fast-day in the con- 
gregation before an ordination (ch. xv), and declares 
that while “there is no day under the Gospel com- 
manded to he kept holy except the Lord’s day, which 
is the Christian Sabbath, nevertheless, to observe 
days of fasting and thanksgiving, as the extraordinary 
dispensations of divine Providence may direct, we 
judge both scriptural and rational. Fasts and thanks- 
givings may be observed by individual Christians or 
families in private; by particular congregations; by 
a number of congregations contiguous to each other ; 
by the congregations under the care of a presbytery 
or of a synod ; or by all the congregations of our 
Church. It must he left to the judgment and discre- 
tion of every Christian and family to determine when 
it is proper to observe a private fast or thanksgiving, 
and to the church-sessions to determine for particular 
congregations, and to the presbyteries or synods to de- 
termine for larger districts. When it is deemed ex-. 


FAT 


494 


FATALISM 


pedient that a fast or thanksgiving should ho general, 
the call for them must be judged of by the Synod or 
General Assembly. And if at any time the civil pow- 
er should think it proper to appoint a fast or thanks- 
giving, it is the duty of the ministers and people of 
our communion, as we live under a Christian govern- 
ment, to pay all due respect to the same” {Directory 
for Worship , ch. xiv). 

Besides the writers heretofore quoted, consult Tillot- 
son, Sermons (serm. 89); Bingham, Orig. Eccl. bk. xxi, 
chap, i-iii; Coleman, Ancient Christianity , p. 552 sq. ; 
Bishop Morris, in Meth. Quart. Review , 1849, 205 sq. ; 
Augusti, Denkwureligkeiten, x, 311 sq. ; Suicer, Thesau- 
rus, s. v. vijartia ; D u e a n ge , O' lossa ri um, s. v. Jejunium ; 
Ferraris, Promt a Bibliotheca , iv, 807 sq. (ed. Migne) ; 
"Wesley, Sermons , i, 2-45. 

Pat for receiving wine; an old orthography for 
Vat (q. v.). 

Fat (prop, nbn, che'leb'). [For the use of the word 
as a verb, see Fatted Fowl.] The Hebrews distin- 
guished between the suet, or pure fat of an animal 
C— bPl), and the fat which was intermixed with the lean 
oily pieces , Nell. viii, 10). Ccitain restric- 
tions were imposed upon them in reference to the for- 
mer: some parts of the suet, viz. about the stomach, 
the entrails, the kidneys, and the tail of a sheep, which 
grows to an excessive size in many Eastern countries, 
and is a special delicacy, were forbidden to be eaten in 
the case of animals offered to Jehovah in sacrifice 
(Lev. iii, 3, 9, 17 ; vii, 3, 23). The ground of the pro- 
hibition was that the fat was the richest part of the 
animal, and therefore belonged to him (iii, 10). It 
has been supposed that other reasons were superadded, 
as that the us? of fat was unwholesome in the. hot cli- 
mate of Palestine (Maimonides, More Xebochim , pt. iii, 
ch. xl viii). There appears, however, to be no ground 
for such an assumption (Bfihr, Symbol, ii, 382). r lhe 
presentation of the fat as the richest part of the animal 
was agreeable to the dictates of natural feeling, and to 
the analogy in dedicating the first-born and first-fruits 
to God. This was also the ordinary practice even of 
heathen nations, as instanced in the Homeric descrip- 
tions of sacrifices {II. i, 4G0; ii, 423; Od. iii, 457), and 
in the customs of the Egyptians (Herod. ii, 4<), and 
Persians (Strabo, xv, 732). Accordingly, Abel, who 
brought the first animal sacrifice, not only presented 
to the Lord “the firstlings of his flock,” but “the fat 
thereof,” which, by virtue of its being the best part, 
was as much the firstling of the animal itself as the 
animal was the firstling of the flock (Gen. iv, 4); or 
if the word here means the fattest of his flock, the 
same idea is essentially implied. Indeed, the term 
che/eb is itself significant of the feeling on which the 
regulation was based, for it sometimes describes the 
best of any production (Gen. xlv, 18; Numb, xviii, 
12; Psa. ixxxi, 1G; cxlvii, 14; compare 2 Sam. i, 
22; Jiulg. iii, 29; Isa. x, 1G). With regard to the 
other parts of the fat of sacrifices or the fat of oth- 
er animals, it might he consumed, with the excep- 
tion of those dying cither by a violent or a natural 
death (Lev. vii, 24), which might still be used in any 
other way. The burning of the fat of sacrifices was 
particularly specified in each kind of offering, whether 
a peace offering (Lev. iii, 9), consecration offering (viii, 
25), sin offering (iv, 8), trespass offering (vii, 3), or re- 
demption offering (Numb, xviii, 17). The Hebrews 
fully appreciated the luxury of well-fatted meat, and 
had their stall-fed oxen and calves (1 Kings iv, 23; 
Jer. xlvi, 21 ; Luke xv, 23). This was, however, not 
a usual practice; and even at this day in the East, do- 
mestic cattle seldom undergo any preparatory feeding 
or fattening before being killed. Hence there is little 
fat in the carcase except tint belonging to the parts 
specified in the prohibition, which is all more or less 
of the nature of suet. See Food. 


The parts of the fat or suet of the victims which 
belong to God, and are especially to be appiopriated 
to the altar, are given in Exod. xxix, 13-22, and Lev* 
iii, 3-5, as follows : 1. The fat which covers the en- 
trails (I.^jrijTN; -^nri) = hriTrXoi'ij, as Jo- 

sephus rightly has it {Ant. iii, 9, 2); the omentum , 
which is only to be found in man and mammals, and 
is very fat in ruminants (comp. Aristot. Ilut, A trim. 
i, 16; Pliny, Hist. Nat. xi, SO). 2. The fat which ac- 
cumulates around entrails HEX -^nn), 

and is easily separated therefrom, i. e. the reticular 
adherings to the colon. 3. The two kidneys, with the 
fat on them, at the internal muscles of the loins (*"r.'23 

bv Trx nbnti rso r'-bsri), as the 

most fat accumulates near the kidneys (L)eut. xxxii, 
14; Isa. xxxiv, 6), and to such an extent in sheep 
that they sometimes die of it (o< laepoi pdXiora tCLv 
airXdyxrwv t\ovm TripeXip’, Aristot. De rart. Anim. 
iii, 9, and / list. Anim. iii, 1G ; Pliny, Hist. Nat . xi, 81). 
4. The yothe'rcth , which is taken by the Sept, 

and Josephus {Ant. iii, 9, 2) to mean o Xo(Mq tov ip ra- 
toCj the greater lobe of the liver , similarly the Syriac 
and Chaldee (S^^2 H“4in); and is explained by 

the Talmud ( Chitlin , xlix, G), Bashi, Kimchi, Solomon 
bcn-Melech, etc., as I$w5^=rp«w«£a,'whereby the 
Greeks, according to Hippocrates, understood the 
greater and thickest of the five segments of the liver 
(Biihr, Symb. ii, 854). This meaning of P’lP'P is ably 
defended by Bocbart {JJieroz. lib. ii, c. xlv), and fol- 
lowed by Le Clerc, J. I). Bosenmiillcr, Kaliscli (on 
Exod. xxix, 13), and others. But the Vulgate, Lu- 
ther, Tyndalc, the Bishops’ Bilde, the Geneva Bible, 
the A. V., Piseator, De Wette, Knobcl, Fiirst, etc., take 
it to denote omentum minus , w hich is preferable, for the 
lobes have no accumulation of fat. 5. The tail (rV*“N; 7 
cdyah', A.V. “rump”) of a sheep (Lev. vii, 3), which, 
in a certain species {oris laticauelata ), contains a great 
quantity of fat. It is for this reason that the eating 
of fat is forbidden (Lev. iii, 17). It affords a delicate 
mairowy substance much used in pillaus and other 
messes which require to he lulu icatcd by animal juices. 
The Babliinical Jews maintain that the prohibition of 
it is restricted to the sacrifices, while the Karaite Jews 
regard the eating of the tail as absolutely forbidden. — 
Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Sheep. 

One of the metaphorical senses of “ fat” (in the He- 
brew) is noticed above. By a natural figure, “ fat” is 
occasionally put in Scripture for a dull and torpid state 
of mind, as if the heart -were covered with thick fat, 
and therefore insensible (Psa. xvii, 10). See Oil. 

Fatalism, the doctrine of an inevitable necessity, 
implying an omnipotent and arbitrary superior power. 
It is derived from the Latin fatvm (“what is spoken 
or decreed," passive participle of fart). The Greeks 
expressed it also by the passive participle eipao/thn ; ; 
hut their words fiolna { Destiny , the Goddess of Fate') 
and alrm {decree, destiny , godekss who dispenses fate) 
have an active meaning. 

I. In Homer, Moira has a twofold force ; it is some- 
times considered as superior to Zeus, then again as in- 
ferior to him ; a twofold force which Nagelsbach cor- 
rectly expounds (after Delbriick and Crcuzer) bv say- 
ing that in llomer the monarchical xviii of Zens does 
not appear as directly opposed to the contrary efforts of 
the other gods. Yet the human mind has a monothe- 
istic tendency even among the heathen, and therefore 
seeks to give to the heavens one supreme ruler, and 
to unite all the gods into one exclusive unity. On 
the other hand, however, this unity is inert and dead, 
and this leads Homer to identify it with the highest, 
the living god — w-ith the “total will” of the other gods. 
The gradual development of Greek philosophy led to 
the thought of representing the supreme ruling power 
j by Moira : so we find it in Herodotus, i, 91, rt)v -(7 rpw- 


FATALISM 


495 


FATHER 


fitvt] v f. tolimv acvvarct tonv curotyvyteiv /cm . This 

agency of Fate was afterwards made to apply to the 
regulation of the outward life of men, and the concep- 
tion of Fate as the ruling power of the universe be- 
came deeper and more spiritual : so Anaxagoras rec- 
ognises None, the spirit, as ruler of the world ; and 
Plato does the same, especially in Philebue (81, 4, iv 
Ty tov A«j£ <pv(Tti (3aoi\tKtjV p'tv *pvx*l l 'i (3aotXiKov Ct 
rovv iyyiyvtoSui). This same tendency towards a 
spiritualization of Fate is found in the tragic authors, 
especially in Sophocles, who has happily expressed 
these views in his (Edipus Coloneus , 2GG, 267 (edition 
Schneidewin) : iirtt ra y tpya pvo 7rt7rov0uT’ tori pciX- 
X ov f; Ptcocucora (fo ? * my actions are rather to be called, 
my destiny's than my own), lint this fate does not ex- 
clude guilt on the part of man, for the curse rested from 
the first on individual sin, as is show n especially in 
the revelation of fearful guilt in the Oedipus Uer, and 
the possibility of pardon in the Coloticus. The Greek 
tragedy is based on this very antagonism between in- 
dividual being and the supreme world-power. After 
Sophocles, the two notions of the word Mo7o« were 
separated, and each was gradually brought out more 
distinctly. From Euripides down to the Epicureans 
a tendency prevailed to make the power of fate sub- 
servient to human caprice, and to make it subordinate 
to Toy?/ (chance), which plays an important part in 
Thucydides. Blind chance was made to rule the earth. 
The Epicureans proclaimed their gods the “ essence of 
pure inactive self-indulgence, indifferent to the condi- 
tion of mankind and the world,” so that, the gods no 
longer interfering in human affairs, it became matter 
of indifference whether they were worshipped or not. 
On the other hand, Stoicism maintained that to live 
according to the laws of nature, i. e. to resign one’s 
self to the necessary course of things, is the trne wis- 
dom of life. In this point, as in others, the views of 
the Stoics and the Epicureans were directly opposed to 
each other [see Epicure an Philosophy], yet in 
their results they arrived at the same point, viz. that 
against the ineluctabile fatum, whether the result of sep- 
arate accidental chances or of the general law of na- 
ture, there is nothing to be done. The Moira, acting 
according to higher laws incomprehensible to human- 
ity, is thus confounded with blind destiny. 

II. The conception of fate which underlies all theo- 
ries of fatalism is as follows: (1.) Destiny is a dead, 
blind power; (2.) human liberty is completely and ir- 
resistibly controlled by destiny. Under this twofold 
aspect, fatalism finds its most complete realization in 
Mohammedanism ; hut it has also been defended on 
scientific grounds within the sphere of Christendom. 
The doctrine of absolute predestination, in its hidden 
absolutum decretum (sec Luther, De servo arbitrio 7 and 
UUmann, Studien u. Kritiken , 1847, i, 2), resembles the 
heathen conception of fate. In its relation to spiritual 
and eternal life, fatalism is generally based on (1) the 
pantheistic view of the world, which swallows up in- 
dividual freedom and responsibility, so that (as by 
Spinoza) all our thoughts and actions are represented 
as but the thoughts and actions of God manifested 
through us. This leads naturally to (2) the determin- 
ism of deism, which considers the world as so ruled by 
the immutable laws of nature that individual life and 
actions are hut cogs of one of the wheels of the uni- 
versal machinery ; and to modern materialism, accord- 
ing to which thought is but a natural secretion of the 
brain. 

The Christian idea of God is directly opposed to all 
fatalism, whether pagan or modern materialistic. In 
Christian thought, God is not blind chance, dead fate, 
or a dark, unknown force of nature ; but God is spirit, 
a living God, a personal Being, who is love and the 
Father of love. And this living and personal God has 
endowed man with his own image, and therefore with 
freedom, in the exercise of which endowment man is 
to become himself a participant in the fulfilment of 


the divine decrees, a u co-worker” with God, and, as 
such, not only capable of aiding in the spread and con- 
summation of the kingdom (or royal sway) of God 
upon the earth, but also bound to aid in it. — Herzog, 
Reed- Encyklop ddie , iv, 340 sq. (from which this article 
is chiefly a translation); Cudworth, Intellectual System 
of the Universe , bk. i, chap, i : Hamilton, Discussions In 
Philosophy ; Werner, Geschichte der apoloy. Literatur 
(Schaffhausen, 18G7). See Materialism. 

Father (-X, ab , a primitive word, but following 
the analogy of to shoiv kindness , Gesenius, The • 

saurus, p. G— 8 ; Chaldee, -X, 7rcm/n). Compare Sox. 

1. This word, besides its obvious and primary sense, 
bears in Scripture a number of other applications, most 
of which have, through the use of the Bible, become 
more or less common in all Christian countries (see 
Gesenius’s Ileb. and Bobinson’s Greek Lex.'). 

(1.) Father is applied to any ancestor near or remote, 
or to ancestors (‘'-fathers”) in general. The progcnF 
tor, or founder, or patriarch of a tribe or nation was 
also pre-eminently its father, as Abraham of the .lews. 
Examples of this abound. See, for instance, Dent, i, 
11; 1 Kings viii, 11 ; Alatt. iii, 0 ; xxiii, 30; Mark xi, 
10 ; Luke i, 32, 73; vi, 23, 23; John vii, 22, etc. So 
of the founder or rebuilder of a city (1 Chron. ii, 50- 
52, etc.). 

(2.) Father is also applied as a title of respect to any 
head, chief, ruler, or elder, and especially to kings, 
prophets, and priests (Judg. xvii, 10 ; xviii, 19 ; 1 Sam. 
x, 12; 2 Kings ii, 12; v, 13; vi, 21; xiii, 14; Prov. 
iv, 1; Matt, xxiii, 9; Acts vii, 2; xxii, 1; 1 Cor. iv, 
15, etc.). Also of protector or guardian (Job xxix, 
16 ; Psa. lxviii, 5 ; Dent, xxxii, G). Hence of seniors, 
especially of Church fathers. See below . 

(3.) The author, source, or beginner of anything is 
also called the father of the same, or of those who fol- 
low him. Thus Jabal is called “the father of those 
who dwell in tents, and have cattle;” and Jubal “the 
father of all such as handle the harp and the organ” 
(Gen. i v, 21, 22 ; comp. Job xxxviii, 28 ; John viii, 44 ; 
Bom. iv, 12). In the Talmud the term father is used 
to indicate the chief; e. g. the principal of certain 
works arc termed “fathers.” Objects whose contact 
causes pollution are called “ fathers” of defilement 
(Mishna, Shalb. vii, 2, vol. ii, p. 29; Pcsach , i, G, vol. 
ii, p. 137, Surenh). This use of the word is exceed- 
ingly common in the East to this day, especially as 
applied in the formation of proper names, in which also 
the most curious Hebrew examples of this usage occur. 
See Ab-. 

(4.) As an extension of all the foregoing senses, the 
term father is very often applied to God himself (Gen. 
xliv, 19, 20 ; Exod. iv, 22 ; Dent, xxxii, G ; 2 Sam. vii, 
14; Psa. lxxxix, 27, 28; Isa. lxiii, 1G ; Ixiv, 8). In- 
deed, the analogy of language would point to this, see- 
ing that in the Old Testament, and in all the Syro- 
Arabian dialects, the originator of anything is con- 
stantly called its father. Without doubt, however, 
God is in a more especial manner, even as by cove- 
nant, the Father of the Jews (Jer. xxxi, 9 : Isa. lxiii, 
1G; Ixiv, 8; John viii, 41; v, 45; 2 Cor. vi, 18); and 
also of Christians, or, rather, of all pious and believ- 
ing persons, who are called “sons of God” (dolm i, 
12; Bom. viii, 1G, etc.). Thus Jesus, in speaking to 
Ins disciples, calls God their Father (Matt, vi, 4, 8, 15, 
18 ; x, 20, 29 ; xiii, 43, etc.). The apostles also, for 
themselves and other Christians, call him “ Father” 
(Rom. i, 7; 1 Cor. i, 3; 2 Cor. i, 2; Gal. i, 4; and 
many other places). See Abba. 

2. The position and authority of the father as the 
head of the family is expressly assumed and sanction- 
ed in Scripture, as a likeness of that of the Almighty 
over his creatures, an authority — as Philo remarks — 
intermediate between human and divine (Philo, Trtpi 
yoviu tv Ttpijg, § 1). It lies, of course, at the root of 
that so-called patriarchal government (Geu. iii, 1G: 1 


FATHER 


496 FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 


Cor. xi, 3), which was introductory to the more defi- 
nite systems that followed, and that in part, but not 
wholly, superseded it. When, therefore, the name of 
14 father of nations” (crriX) was given to Abram, 
he was thereby held up not only as the ancestor, but 
as the example of those who should come after him 
(Gen. xviii, 18, 19 ; Horn, iv, 17). The father’s blessing 
was regarded as conferring special benefit, but his male- 
diction special injury, on those upon whom it fell (Gen. 
ix, 25, 27; xxvii, 27-40; xlviii, 15, 20 ; xlix); and 
so also the sin of a parent was held to affect, in cer- 
tain cases, the welfare of his descendants (2 Kings, v, 
27), though the law forbade the punishment of the son 
for his father's transgression (Dent, xxiv, 1G; 2 Kings 
xiv, G; Ezek. xviii, 20). The command to honor par- 
ents is noticed by the apostle Paul as the only one of 
the Decalogue which bore a distinct promise (Exod. 
xx, 12; Eplies. vi, 2), and direspect towards them was 
condemned by the law ns one of the worst of crimes 
(Exod. xxi, 15, 17 ; 1 Tim. i, 9 ; comp. Virgil, AEn. vi, 
609; Aristoph. Ran. 274-773). Instances of legal en- 
actment in support of parental authority are found in 
Exod. xxii, 17 ; Numb, xxx, 3, 5 ; xii, 14 ; Deut. xxi, 
18, 21 ; Lev. xx, 9 ; xxi, 9 ; xxii, 12 ; and the spirit 
of the law in this direction may he seen in Prov. xiii, 
1 ; xv, 5 ; xvii, 25 ; xix, 13 ; xx, 20 ; xxviii, 24 ; xxx, 
17 ; Isa. xlv, 10 ; Mai. i, 0. The father, however, had 
not the power of death over bis child under theAIosaic 
law (Deut. xxi, 18-21 ; Philo, l. c.). 

From the patriarchal spirit also the principle of re- 
spect to age and authority in general appears to be 
derived. Thus Jacob is described as blessing Pharaoh 
(Gen. xlvii, 7, 10 ; comp. Lev. xix, 32 ; Prov. xvi, 81 ; 
Philo, 1. c. § G). 

The authority of a father was thus very great in 
patriarchal times ; and although the law of Moses re- 
quired the parent to bring his cause of complaint to 
the public tribunals (Deut. xxi, 18-21), all the more 
real powers of parental character were not only left 
unimpaired, but were made in a great degree the basis 
of the judicial polity which that law established. The 
children, and even the grandchildren, continued under 
the roof of the father and grandfather ; they labored 
on his account, and were the most submissive of his 
servants. The property of the soil, the power of judg- 
ment, the civil rights, belonged to him only, and his 
sons were merety his instruments and assistants. If 
a family be compared to a body, then the father was 
the head, and the sons the members, moving at his 
will and in his service. There vrere exceptions, doubt- 
less, hut this was the rule, and, with some modifica- 
tions, it is still the rule throughout the East. 

Filial duty and obedience were, indeed, in the eyes 
of the Jewish legislator, of such high importance that 
great care was taken that the paternal authority should 
not he weakened by the withdrawal of a power so lia- 
ble to fatal and barbarous abuse as that of capital pun- 
ishment. Any outrage against a parent — a blow, a 
curse, or incorrigible profligacy — -was made a capital 
crime (Exod. xxi, 33, 17 ; Lev. xx, 9). If the offence 
was public, it was taken up by the witnesses as a crime 
against Jehovah, and the culprit was brought before 
tbe magistrates, whether the parent consented or not; 
and if the offence w'as hidden within the paternal walls, 
it devolved on the parents to denounce him and to re- 
quire his punishment. 

Tt is a beautiful circumstance in the law of Moses 
that this filial respect is exacted for the mother as well 
as for the father. The threats and promises of the 
legislator distinguish not the one from the other; and 
the fifth commandment associates the father and moth- 
er in a precisely equal claim to honor from their chil- 
dien (see Cellerier, Esprit de la Legislation Mostnque , 
ii, 69,122-129). Comp. Wosjan. 

Among Mohammedans parental authority has great 
weight during the time of pupilage. The son is not 


allowed to eat, scarcely to sit, in his father’s presence. 
Disobedience to parents is reckoned one of the most 
heinous of crimes (Burckhardt, Notes on Bed. i, 355; 
Lane, Mod. Eg. i, 84 ; Atkinson, Travels in Siberia, p. 
559). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Father (Goi> tiie) w as usually represented in ear- 
ly Christian art ly a hand, which w T as usuall}' extend- 
ed through a cloud. The principal subjects in which 
God the Father is represented by a hand are the scenes 
from the creation : Moses receiving the law, Moses at 
the burning bush, the sacrifice of Abraham, and the 
baptism of Christ. The hand is often given as hold- 
ing out w’reaths or crowns to saints and martyrs at 
their death, or their ascension to Paradise. As early 
as the fifth century, God the Father is represented as 
an old man. This symbol predominated during the 
later Middle Ages, and is the one now r universally 
adopted by Christian artists. The figures of God in the 
creation by M. Angelo and Raphael, in the Sistine chap- 
el and in the Vatican, are among the grandest concep- 
tions in all art. God the Father is also represented as 
1 an old man in the representations of the Trinity (q. 

1 v.). — Martign}’, Dictionnaire des Antiquities Chretiennes , 
118G5. (G.F.C.) 

Father-in-law: 1. t:n, chain (from Jl*cn, to join 
! in affinity; see Mother-in-law), Gen. xxxviii, 13, 
[25; 1 Sam. iv, 19, 21. 2. I jrn, elwthen (participle of 

- ( rn, to marry), one marrying a (laugher, Exod. iii, 1 ; 

! iv, iS; xviii, 1-27; Num. x, 29; Judg. i, 1G ; iv, 11 ; 
xix, 4, 7, 9. 8. 7m'3rp'>£ (strictly one related hj” mar- 

riage, like ISo. 1), John xviii, 13. See Affinity. 

Father’s Brother, ‘TH, dod (strictly one bdoved, 
a friend, as in Isa. v, 1), an uncle (q. v.), Num. xxxvi, 
11; 2 Kings xxiv, 17; fern. FATHER’S SISTER, 
iVTH, dodah' , Exod. vi, 20, an aunt (q. v.). 

Fathers of the Church {Pat res Ecclesin *), a 
name applied to certain ancient Christian writers, w ho 
have preserved in their writings, to a certain ex- 
tent, the history, doctrines, and traditions of the ear- 
ly Church. The use of the name “father” for this 
purpose originated in the Oriental habit of styling the 
| relation of teacher and pupil that of “father” and 
“son.” So Alexander the Great called Aristotle his 
“father,” Elisha calls Elijah his “father” (2 Kings ii, 
12); the pupils of the prophets were called “sons of 
the prophets.” At an early period in the Christian 
( Church, this title was given to preachers and teachers ; 
' and later, the title “father” {papa, pope) was given 
to bishops especially. 

The Greek Church closes the list of the “fathers,” 
properly so called, with John of Damascus (f 754), 
the Latin Church with Gregory the Great (j G04). 
'The use of the word “fathers” is by Protestants 
“limited to the more distinguished teachers of the 
first five or six centuries, excepting, of course, the 
apostles, who stand far above them all as the inspired 
; organs of the Holy Ghost. It applies, therefoie, to 
the period of the oecumenical formation of doctrines, 

: before the separation of Eastern and Western Chris- 
tendom” (Sehaff, Church History, i, 454). The Roman 
theologians make the following qualities the criterion 
I of a “Church father,” viz. antiquity, orthodoxy, sanc- 
tity of life, and the approval of the Church (Fessler, 
Institutiones Patrologlop , i, 2G). Accordingly, the Ro- 
man Church denies the title fathers to such men as 
Origen, Tertullian, Lactantius, Eusebius, etc., because 
their writings are not held to he in all respects ortho- 
dox ; they are designated, not as pa/res, but as scrip- 
tores ecclesiastici (ecclesiastical writers). At a later 
period, the title doctorcs ecclesue (doctors of the Church) 
was given to w'ritcrs supposed to have the qualities 
cited above as constituting the criterion of “a father,” 

I substituting eminens eruditio for tmiiqudas. A decree 
of pope Iiouiface (A. I). 1298) assigns the title magni 
j ccclesiee doctores to the four Latin fathers Ambrose, Ati- 


FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 497 FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 


gustine, Jerome, and Gregory the Great. Among the 
Greeks, the title doctorcs ecclesue was given to Ath- 
anasius, Basil, Gregory Xazianzen, and Chrysostom, 
and the Latins recognise them as such. To a few 
great men among the scholastics the same title was 
given, with an additional epithet to designate some 
special intellectual quality in gift; thus, in the 12th 
and 13th centuries, the following doctors of the Church 
were thus honored: Thomas Aquinas, Angelicas; Jo- 
hannes Bonaventura, Seraphicus ; Johannes Duns Sco- 
tus, Subtilis ; Itaimuudus Lullius, Illuminatus; Ala- 
nus de Iusulis (de l’lole), Universalis; Durandiis de 
S. Pourcain, Resolutissimus ; Gregorius de Bimini, Au- 
thentiens; Johannes Taulcrus, Illuminatus; Johannes 
Gersonus, Christianissimtis ; Alexander Ilales, Irre- 
fragabilis ; Boger Bacon, Admirabilis ; William Oc- 
cam, Singularis. Since 1830, Bernard of Clairvaux 
has been included among the “doctors,” and, since 
1852, Hilary of Poitiers. Chronologically, the fathers 
are divided into three classes, the apostolical, the anti- 
Nicene, and post-Nicene. 

I. The Apostolical Fathers arc those Christian writers 
(of whom any remains are now extant) who are sup- 
posed to have been contemporary with one or more of 
the apostles, that is to say, who lived and wrote before 
A.D. 120. There are live names usually given as those 
of the apostolic fathers, i. e. there are live men who 
lived during the age of the apostles, and who did con- 
verse, or might have conversed with them, to whom 
writings still extant have been ascribed, viz. Barna- 
bas, Clement of Borne, Ignatius, Polycarp, Hernias. 
The following works are generally counted to these 
writers: 1. The epistle of Barnabas [see Barnabas] ; 
2. Two epistles of Clement, bishop of Borne, to the Co- 
rinthians [see Clement of Home]; 3. Several epis- 
tles of rgnatius, bishop of Antioch [sec Ignatius] ; 4, 
An epistle of Polycarp, bishop of Smyrna, to the Phil- 
ippians [see Polycarp] ; 5. The epistle (of an un- 
known author) to Diognotus [see Diognetus] ; G. The 
book entitled Pastor Hernias [see Hermas]. Certain 
fragments of Papias are also commonly included among 
the apostolical fathers. See Papias. Of the writings 
attributed to these fathers, some at least are of doubt- 
ful genuineness (on this point, see the individual titles 
referred to). See the article Apostolical Fathers, 
vol. i, p. 315. 

II. The Ante-Xicene Fathers are those whose writ- 
ings date before the Council of Nicau, A.D. 325. The 
chief among them are (lists from Eidic, Riddle, Alzog): 
Justin Martyr, born probably about A.D. 103; left Pal- 
estine 132 ; presented his first Apology t > Antoninus 
about (140 or) 148; wrote his second Apology in the 
reign of Marcus Aurelius, probably about 102— 4 ; 
has left a variety of other works, and a Dialogue 
with Trypho the Jew ; suffered martyrdom at Rome 
about 1G5. 

HermLis wrote his work, Derision of the Heathen Phi- 
losophers, probably about 170. 

Dionysius of Corinth wrote some epistles ; all lost ex- 
cept a very few fragments ; fi. 170. 
llegcsippus, originally a Jew, wrote History of the 
Church , of which only a few fragments survive, 
about 175. 

Tatian wrote an Oration against the Greeks , which has 
been preserved ; died probably about 17G. 

Athena g jras wrote ail Apology for the Christians, and 
also on the resurrection, both of which have been 
translated into English, 17G. 

Theophilus, bishop of Antioch, wrote his work on re- 
ligion to Autolyeus about 180; died 181. 

Irenaeus, bishop of Lyons, Gaul, in the latter part of 
the second century (became bishop about A.D. 177), 
wrote his work Against Heresies, or A Refutation and 
Subversion of Knowledge falsely so called , between 
A.D. 182 and 188; died about A.D. 202. 

Minneius Felix wrote his Octavius , or defence of Chris- 
tianity, about 208. 

III.— I i 


Clement of Alexandria succeeded Pantsenus in the 
catechetical school of that city 188 or 109; quitted 
Alexandria 202; died about 217. 

Tertullian became a Montanist about the year 200 ; 
his Apology was composed (198 or) 205 ; his work 
against Marcion, 207 ; has left a great variety of 
tracts on the vices and customs of his age — as on the 
theatre, the dress of females, idolatry, second mar- 
riages, the soldier’s crown, and on flight in persecu- 
tion, etc. : died about 240. 

Hippolytus, bishop of Portus Eomanus, wrote, besides 
many other pieces, Philosophoumena , newly discov- 
ered; died about 230. 

Origen, born 185 ; head of the catechetical school at 
Alexandria 204 ; went to Rome, and returned to 
Alexandria, 213; went to Ca3sarea, in Palestine, 
215 ; ordained at Caesarea, and afterwards settled 
there, about 230 ; retired to Cappadocia 235 ; re- 
turned to Caesarea 239 ; a laborious scholar and crit- 
ic ; compiled a Hexapla , or Polyglot Bible ; wrote 
commentaries on Scripture, some of which survive ; 
a treatise on prayer ; and a defence against Celsus ; 
thrown into prison 250 ; died 254. 

Cyprian, bishop of Cartilage, 248 ; fled from Carthage 
250 ; returned 251 ; banished 257 ; author of epis- 
tles, addresses, and tracts ; advocate of Episcopacy ; 
suffered martyrdom 258. 

Dionysius, surnamed the Great, bishop of Alexandria, 
a scholar of Origen, 247 or 248; died 2G5. 

Gregory (Thaumaturgus), bishop of Neocaesarea, flour- 
ished 245 ; composed a creed, an oration in praise of 
Origen, and a paraphrase on Ecclesiastes ; diad 
about 270. 

Victorinus wrote scholia on the Apocalypse ; died 303s 
Arnobius wrote his treatise of seven books Against the 
Gentiles about 305 ; died probably about 325. 
Lactantius, finished his Institutes about 320; wrote also 
on The Death of Persecutors, and on The Wrath of 
God ; composed a symposium or banquet, ami an 
itinerary, both in verse ; died 325. 

For the literature, see each of these titles in its aP 
phabetical place. The greater part of this period, 
down at least to the death of Origen, A.D. 254, may 
be called the apologetic period of the early Church, 
and many of the writers of that time belong to the 
class of apologists (q. v.). The last lulf of the period 
was one of construction of doctrines and of polemical 
discussion of them within the Church. Strife against 
pagans and pagan philosophy on the one hand, and 
against Judaic Docetism and Gnosticism on the other, 
characterizes the whole period (see Xeander, History 
of Dogmas, Byland’s translation, i, 33 sq.). “While 
the so-called apostolical fathers (with few exceptions) 
were distinguished by a direct practico-ascetical rather 
than a definite doctrinal activity, the philosophizing 
tendency allied to Hellenism was in some measure 
represented by the apologists Justin Martyr , Tatian, 
A thenagoras, Theophilus of Antioch, and Minucius />- 
lix in the West. On the contrary, Irenams, as well as 
Tertullian , and his disciple Cyprian, firmly adhered to 
the positive dogmatic theology of the Church, the for- 
mer in a milder and more considerate, the latter in a 
strict and sometimes gloomy manner. Clement and 
Origen, both belonging to the Alexandrian school, 
chiefly developed the speculative aspect of theology. 
But these contrasts arc only relative; for wc find, e. 
g. that Justin Martyr manifests both a leaning towards 
Hellenism, and a strong Judaizing tendency : that the 
idealism and criticism of Origen are now and then ac- 
companied with a surprising adherence to the letter; 
and that Tertullian, notwithstanding his anti-Gnostic 
tendency, evidently strives after philosophical ideas. 
It was the characteristic feature of the apologetical 
period, that the whole system of Christianity as a re- 
ligious-moral fact was considered and defended rather 
j than particular doctrines. Still, certain doctrines be- 
| come more prominent, while others receive less atten* 


FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 498 


FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 


tion. Investigations of a theological and christologi- 
eal nature are certainly more numerous than those of 
an anthropological character. On this account the 
doctrine of human liberty is made more conspicuous 
in this period than later writers approved. Next to 
theology and ehristology, eschatology engaged most 
the attention of Christians at that time, and was more 
fully developed in the struggle with millenarianism on 
the one side, and with the scepticism of Grecian philos- 
ophers on the other” (Hagen bach, History of Doctrines, 
§ 2G, ‘27). A valuable literary history of the ante-Ni- 
cene fathers is furnished by Donaldson, Critical His- 
tory of Christian Literature and Doet tine, from the death 
of the Apostles to the Nicene Council (Lond. 1804, 3 vols. 
8vo), a work which shows industry and ability, but is 
not remarkable for true critical judgment. I)r. Bu- 
chnnan remarks that “Donaldson argues on the erro- 
neous principle that the teaching of the earlier fathers 
may he applied as a test, if not of the truth of certain 
doctrines, at least of their necessity and importance 
as articles of faith. ‘If the early writers were hete- 
rodox on the Trinity — if they knew nothing of a satis- 
faction of divine justice, but spoke only in a vague way 
of the matter — if they wavered in regard to original 
sin, some denying it entirely, and others expressing 
themselves with great uncertainty — if their testimony 
to the inspiration of the New Testament is unsatisfac- 
tory and inconclusive, where was Christianity in those 
days? Did it really sleep for three long centuries? 
.... Or may not the evangelical school be wrong in 
asserting that it is necessary for a man to believe in 
original sin, the Trinity, the atonement, and similar 
dogmas, before he can be a Christian ?’ (vol. i, p. G4). 
Dr. Donaldson’s work — considered as a ‘Critical His- 
tory of Christian Literature' in the first three centu- 
ries — is highly valuable, and exhibits the results of 
ripe scholarship, and extensive reading and research ; 
but considered as a ‘Critical Histoiy of Christian Doc- 
trine,’ it is far from being a safe guide. 11 is interpre- 
tation of many passages in the writings of the fathers 
is, to say the least, highly questionable, and at direct 
variance with that of such writers as Bull, and Water- 
land, and Faber. But, even were it more certain than 
it is, and did it afford proGf that their writings were 
less in accordance with Scripture than we believe them 
to iiave been, we should still fall hack on the cardinal 
principle that they are to be tested by the only infalli- 
ble standard, the inspired Word of God. ‘ To the law 
and to the testimony: if they speak not according to 
this Word, there is no light in them.’ We should then 
be constrained to say of them, as the prophet said of 
ancient Israel, ‘ They have forsaken t lie word of the 
Lord, and what wisdom is in them ?’ but we should 
have no difficulty in answering the question, Where 
was Christianity then ? for it existed then, as it exists 
still, in ‘the Word of God, the Gospel of our salva- 
tion;’ and it was neither dead nor asleep, but alive 
and active in the Church of the Catacombs” (Buchan- 
an, Doctrine of Justification, Edinb. 18G7, p. 431). 

1 1 1. Post- Nicene. — The principal post-Nicene fathers 
are as follows : 

Eusebius (Pamphili), born about A.D. 270; bishop of 
Cajsarea, in Palestine, 315; was a learned and labo- 
rious writer; wrote, besides many other things, the 
Evangelical Preparation, in fifteen hooks; E ran y di- 
ad Demonstration, in twenty books — the half of 
which is lost — hut both works belong to Apologetics 
(q. v.) ; an Ecclesiastical History , in ten books ; died 
340. 

Julius Firmicns Maternus, who wrote on the error of 
profane religions ; flourished about 340. 

Hilary, bishop of Poictiers, horn 30.3 ; banished to 
Phrygia 35G; wrote on the Trinity, on councils, 
against the Arians, with a commentary on the 
Psalms and Matthew ; diodUGG. 

Athanasius, born at Alexandria about 29G; present as 
deacon at the Council of Nicaea 325; bishop of Al- 


exandria 32G ; fled to Borne 341 ; returned to Alex- 
andria 34G; fled to the deserts of Egypt 35G; wrote 
a discourse against the Gentiles, on the Incarnation ; 
against the Arians, on the Incarnation ; against 
Apollinaris, etc. ; died 373. 

Basil, surnamed the Great, born 329; bishop of Caesa- 
rea, in Cappadocia, 370 ; wrote homilies, exposi- 
tions, panegyrics, llexiemeron , and letters; died 379. 

Ephraim the Syrian, deacon of Edessa ; published a 
variety of commentaries, polemical treatise, and 
smaller works ; died about 379. 

Cyril of Jerusalem, born 315; bishop of Jerusalem 
350; wrote catechetical discourses; died 38G. 

Gregory of Nazianzus, horn 328 ; ordained deacon 3G1 ; 
bishop of Suzima 372; bishop of Constantinople 381; 
wrote discourses, poems, and letters ; died about 390. 

Gregory of Nyssa, born 351; bishop of Nyssa 372; 
wrote a llcxcemcron, life of Moses, on prayer, along 
with orations, panegyrics, tracts, and letters; died 
about 395. 

Ambrose, born 340; archbishop of Milan 374; pub- 
lished annotations on Scripture, discourses, and mis- 
cellaneous treatises ; died about 397. 

Epiphanius, bishop of Salamis, born about 330 ; wrote 
a Pannarium , or a treatise on heresies, etc. ; died 
403. 

Chrysostom, horn at Antioch about 344 ; ordained pres- 
byter in that church 38G; bishop of Constantinople 
398 ; deprived and restored 403 ; banished 404 ; was 
a most eloquent preacher and voluminous writer ; 
wrote many commentaries, homilies, orations, with 
several controversial pieces ; died 407. 

Ruffinus, presbyter of Aquileia, engaged in contro- 
versy with Jerome 394 ; published a great many 
Latin translations, as well as original works ; died 
410. 

Jerome, born 331; in Rome 3G3; ordained presbyter 
about 378; translated or revised the Latin Vulgate; 
wrote commentaries on most of the books of Scrip- 
ture, controversial tracts, an Onomasticon , and lives 
and works of preceding ecclesiastical writers; died 
4 ‘20. 

Theodorus, bishop of Mopsuestia, in Cilicia, about 392; 
wrote commentaries, in which he expounded the 
grammatical sense; but only a few brief fragments 
remain; died about 428. 

Augustine, born 354 ; baptized 387 ; ordained presby- 
ter at Hippo 391 ; coadjutor of Valerius, Lishop of 
Hippo, 395; began his work, De Civitnte Dei, 402; 
published Confessions ; engaged in controversy with 
the Pelagians, Donatists, and Manielueans; com- 
posed a great variety of tracts bearing on systematic 
theology and prevalent errors ; wrote his Retracta - 
tiones , or reviews of his own work, 42G ; died 430. 

Cyril of Alexandria, bishop of Alexandria 513 ; an am- 
bitious and turbulent defender of orthodoxy ; wrote 
on the Pentateuch, on adoration in spirit, some com- 
mentaries on portions of the ( Id and New Testa- 
ments, on the Trinity, against the emperor Julian, 
and against Nestorius ; died 444. 

Vincent of Lerins (Vincentius Lirinensis) wrote his 
Commonitorium , or admonition against profane nov- 
elties of heretics, 434 ; died about 448. 

Isidore of Pelusimn ; wrote tracts on Scripture, on 
doctrines, on discipline, and on monachism ; died 
449. 

Sednlius, poet, and Scotsman by birth, wrote several 
hymns, and a Carmen Paschulc, in verse ; flourished 
about 449. 

Theodoret, born 38G (or 393) ; bishop of Cyrus, in Syria, 
423; deprived 449; restored 451; wrote questions 
on Scripture, commentaries, and a Church history, 
extending from 325 to 429;’ a religious history, and 
an epitome of heretical fables ; died 45G. 

Petrus Chrysologus ; wrote a letter to Eutyches and 
some sermons ; died about 45G. 

Leo I, surnamed the Great, to whom are ascribed let- 


FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 499 FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 


ters and sermons ; wrote on morals, on the pastor- 
ate, and left also homilies, dialogues, and letters ; 
died 461. 

Vigilius, bishop of Thapsus; wrote against the here- 
sies of Arius, Ncstorius, and on the Trinity; flour- 
ished about 480. 

Boethius, author of the Consolation of Philosophy ; put 
to death 525. 

Procopius of Gaza, a commentator on Scripture ; flour- 
ished about 525. 

Aretas, a commentator on the Apocalypse ; flourished 
about 549. 

Evagrius, wrote a Church History ; died 594. 

Gregory, bishop of Tours ; died 59G. 

Gregory 1, surnamed the Great, bishop of Rome 590; 
died G04. 

Joannes Moschns, monk, died G20. 

Isidore of Seville, died G36. 

Bede, the Venerable , died 735. 

John of Damascus, Doymatic Theology , c. 775. 

See each of the above names in its alphabetical 
place in this Cyclopedia. 

IV. Use mi l Authority of the Fathers in Theology . — 
On this subject there are three opinions: (a.) The 
Roman and Puseyite view, which puts the “consent 
of the fathers” (embodying tradition) into the rule of 
faith, along with Scripture. See Faith, Rule of. 
(5.) That of the High-Church writers, who, though 
they acknowledge the Scriptures as the only rule of 
faith, yet appeal to the fathers as the proper exposi- 
tors of Scriptiiie doctrine, and denounce as arrogant 
and presumptuous those who attempt to oppose modern 
opinions to what is held to be the sentiment of Chris- 
tian antiquity, (c.) The Protestant view, according to 
which the fathers are to be treated, like other theolog- 
ical writers, with the deference and respect to which 
their learning and their virtues may entitle them. 
“ In reading the fathers we must always bear in mind 
that the Scriptures are the only rule of faith, and that 
we have no right to insist upon the reception, as an 
article of faith, of any doctrine which is not to be 
found clearly revealed in Scripture, or which is not 
dedueible from Scripture. Still, the judgment of an- 
tiquity on disputed points may be useful ; and while we 
should not put these writers into the position of judges, 
they may be regarded as competent witnesses. They 
are also the historians of the Church, and report its 
customs in successive ages; we must, therefore, have 
recourse to their writings tor information on matters 
of ecclesiastical antiquity, just as we refer to the writ- 
ings of heathen orators, historians, and poets for infor- 
mation with respect to Roman or Grecian antiquities” 
(Riddle, Christian Antiquities , p. 56). 

1. The scholastic theology (q. v.) began with com- 
ments upon citations from the fathers, considered as au- 
thoritative ( sententicc ). When the Reformation began, 
the Roman divines found themselves driven anew to 
the fathers for authority for the doctrines and prac- 
tices which Luther and his coadjutors showed to be 
without foundation in Scripture. More loudly than 
even the scholastics did the controvertists of this pe- 
riod proclaim the authority of patristic tradition in 
settling questions of faith. We have here a clear po- 
lemical reason for the view taken of the fathers in Ro- 
man theology (see it stated in Alzog, Patrologie , § 3; 
and compare the articles Faith, Rule of ; Tradi- 
tion). Not unnaturally, then, have the Roman the- 
ologians been the most diligent workers in this field 
of Christian literature. But, on the other hand, the 
Roman theory that questions of doctrine can only be 
settled by councils (or by pope and council), has not 
been without effect in leading Roman writers to depre- 
ciate the early writers, or, at least, to sec their defects 
clearly. So Petavius, whose Opus Do Th»olagicis Dog- 
matibns (Paris, 1G44-50; new edit. vol. i, Roma;, 1857, 
fol.) is a store-house of patristical learning, points out 
the theological errors of Athenagoras, Tertullian, and 


others, with great clearness. So also J. H. Newman, 
in the Introduction to his Essay on the Development of 
Christian Doctrine (p. 12-15, N. V. edit.), dwells upon 
the “incompleteness” and even of the “errors” of the 
ante-Nicene theology, even in the hands of such fa- 
thers as Irenams, Gregory, and Cyprian. This whole 
Introduction may be considered as an argument against 
the so-called Tractarian view of the authority of the 
fathers, and especially against the validity and practi- 
cability of the much-vaunted dictum of Vineentius Lir- 
inensis (q. v.), quod semper, quod ubique, quod ah om- 
nibus traditum est. All the recent Roman writers who 
adopt the theory of “ development” (q. v.) write in 
the same vein. 

2. The Protestant theologians have, until a late pe- 
riod at least, been divided into two wings on this ques- 
tion of the “ right use of the fathers.” One of these 
wings may be represented by Milton (f 1G74) and by 
Daille (f 1G70). M ilton ,.in his tract on Prelaiical Epis- 
copacy, speaks, in his strong way, of those who, “not 
content with the plentiful and wholesome fountains of 
Scripture, seek to themselves teachers, and cannot 
think any doubt resolved until they run to that undi- 
gested heap and fry of authors whieh they call antiq- 
uitju Whatsoever time, or the heedless hand of blind 
chance, hath drawn down from of old to this present in 
her huge drag-net, whether fish or sea-weed, shells or 
shrubs, unpicked, nnchoson, those are the fathers.” 
But yet, he adds, in another part of the same tract, 
“ He" that thinks it the part of a well-learned man to 
have read diligently the ancient stories of the Church, 
and to be no stranger in the volumes of the fathers, 
shall have all judicious men consenting with him ; not 
hereby to control aud ncw-fangle the Scriptures, God 
forbid ! but to mark how corruption and apostasy crept 
in by degrees, and to gather up, wherever we find the 
remaining sparks of original truth, wherewith to stop 
the months of our adversaries, and to bridle them with 
their own curb who willingly pass by that which is 
orthodoxal in them, and studiously cull out that which 
is connneiititious and best for their turns ; not weigh- 
ing the fathers in the balance of Scripture, but Scrip- 
ture in the balance of the fathers. If we, therefore, 
making first the Gospel our rule and oracle, shall take 
the good which we light on in the fathers, and set it to 
oppose the evil which other men seek from them, in 
this way of skirmish we shall easily master all super- 
stition and false doctrine; but if we turn this our dis- 
creet and wary usage of them into a blind devotion to- 
wards them, and whatsoever we find written by them, 
we both forsake our own grounds and reasons which 
led ns at first to part from Rome, that is, to hold the 
Scriptures against all antiquity ; we remove our cause 
into our adversaries’ own court, and take up there 
those cast principles which will soon cause us to solder 
up with them again, inasmuch as, believing antiquity 
for itself in any one point, we bring an engagement 
upon ourselves of assenting to all that it charges upon 
us.” Milton, it is plain, was writing against the An- 
glican admirers of antiquity as much as against the 
Roman Catholics. 

Daille wrote a treatise, De Vero Usn Patrum (1G3G* 
Am. ed. The Right Use of the Fathers, Rhiladel. 1842, 
12mo), whieh formed an epoch in the history of opin- 
ion on this subject. Warburton, in his Introduction 
to Julian, speaks of the work, its occasion and issues, 
as follows: “When the great defection was made 
from the Chureh of Rome back again to the Church 
of Christ, the Reformed, though they shook off the 
tyranny of the pope, could not disengage themselves 
from the unbounded authority of the fathers, but car- 
ried that prejudice with them, as they did some others 
of a worse complexion, into the Protestant religion. 
For in sacred matters, as novelty is suspicious and an- 
tiquity venerable, they thought it for their credit to 
have the fathers on their side. They seemed neither 
to consider antiquity in general as a thing relative, 


FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 500 FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 


nor Christian antiquity as a thing positive ; either of 
which would have shown them that the fathers them- 
selves were modern compared to that authority on 
which the Reformation was founded, and that the 
Gospel was that true antiquity on which all its follow- 
ers should repose themselves. The consequence of 
which unhappy error was that, in the long appeal to 
reason between Protestants and Papists, both of them 
going on a common principle of the decisive authority 
of the fathers, enabled the latter to support their credit 
against all the evidence of common sense and sacred 
Scripture. At length an excellent writer of the Re- 
formed [Daille], observing that the controversy was 
likely to be endless ; for, though the gross corruptions 
of Popery were certainly later than the third, fourth, 
and fifth centuries, to which the appeal was usually 
made, yet the seeds of them being sown, and begin- 
ning to pullulate, it was but too plain there was hold 
enough for a skilful debater to draw the fathers to his 
own side, and make them water the sprouts they had 
been planting : observing this, 1 say, he wisely pro- 
jected to shift the ground, and force the disputants to 
vary their method both of attack and defence. In or- 
der to this, he composed a discourse of the True Use of 
the Fathers , in which, with uncommon learning and 
strength of argument, he showed that the fathers were 
incompetent deciders of the controversies now on foot, 
since the points in question were not formed into arti- 
cles till long after the ages in which they lived. This 
was bringing the fathers from the bench to the table, 
degrading them from the rank of judges into the class 
of simple evidence; in which, too, they were not to 
speak, like Irish evidence, in every cause where they 
were wanted, but only to such matters as were agreed 
to be within. their knowledge. Had this learned critic 
stopped here, his book had been free from hi .une; but, 
at the same time, his purpose had in all likelihood 
proved very ineffectual, for the obliquity of old prej- 
udices is not to be set straight hy reducing it to that 
line of right which barely restores it to integrity. He 
went much farther; and by showing occasionally that 
they were absurd interpreters of Holy Writ, that they 
were bad reasoners in morals and very loose evidence 
in facts, he seemed willing to have his readers infer 
that, even though they had been masters of the sub- 
ject, yet these other defects would have rendered them 
very unqualified deciders. However, the work of this 
famous foreigner had great consequences, and espe- 
cially with us here at home. The more learned among 
the nobility (which at that time was of the republic of 
letters) were the first who emancipated themselves 
from the general prejudice. It brought the excellent 
lord Falkland to think moderately of the fathers, and 
to turn his theological inquiries into a more useful 
channel ; and his great rival in arts, the famous lord 
Digbv, fonnd it of such use to him in his defence of 
the Reformation against his cousin Sir Ken elm that 
he has even epitomized it in his fine letter on that 
subject. Rut what it has chiefly to boast of is that it 
gave birth to the two best defenses ever written on the 
two best subjects, religion and liberty — I mean Mr. 
Chillingworth’s ReVgion of Protestants, and Dr. Jeremy 
Taylor’s Liberty of Prophesying. In a word, it may 
be truly said to be the store-house from whence all 
who have since written popularly on the character of 
the f ithers have derived their matei i lls” (cited in Pref- 
ace to the Philadelphia edition of Daille). 

3. The other Protestant wing consists of the early 
writers after the Reformation who sought in the fathers 
to find weapons against Rome, and of their successors, 
especially in the Church of England, who have favor- 
ed what are called High-Church views. Among Con- 
tinental writers, Scultetus (Medulla; Theologize Pat rum 
Syntagma, Frankfort, 3598 ; Ileidelb. 1G13 ; Frankfort, 
1034) sought to show that the ante-Nieene fathers had 
been corrupted and misinterpreted by Roman writers, 
and that Protestant doctrines were nearer to the an- 


cient than the Roman Catholic doctrines. The Angli- 
can divines, from an early period of the Reformation, 
made great use of the fathers in the controversy with 
Rome. Moreover, they found, or believed that they 
found, the fathers very serviceable in their warfare for 
episcopacy. Patristic studies became fashionable in 
the Church ; the great names of Hull, Waterland, Ush- 
er, Andrews, and many others, show a list of patristic- 
al scholars hardly excelled in the Roman schools. 
Usher set great store upon the study of the fathers, 
not simply on polemical, but also on scientific grounds. 
Dr. Parr says of him : “Indeed, lie had so great ail 
esteem of the ancient authors for the acquiring any 
solid learning, whether sacred or profane, that his ad- 
vice to young students, either in divinity or antiquity, 
was, not to spend too much time in epitomes, but to 
set themselves to read the ancient authors themselves; 
as, to begin with the fathers, and to read them accord- 
ing to the ages in which they lived (which was the 
method he had taken himself), and, together with 
them, carefully to peruse the Church historians that 
treated of that age in which those fathers lived, by 
which means the student would be better able to per- 
ceive the reason and meaning of divers passages in 
their writings (which otherwise would be obscure) 
when lie knew the original and growth of those here- 
sies and heterodox opinions against which they wrote, 
and may also better judge what doctrines, ceremonies, 
and opinions prevailed in the Church in every age, 
and by what means introduced.” Bull and Water- 
land made great use of the fathers in their discussions 
of the Trinity. Waterland writes against Daille’s 
charges of obscurity in the fathers (Works, Oxford, G 
vols. Svo) ; he also wrote on the use and value of ee- 
| clesiastical antiquity in general (iii, G01-G55), and 
made a reply to Barbeyrac's Morale des Peres de Veglise 
j (Amst. 1728). The great dissenting scholar, Dr. Lard- 
ncr, applied the fathers in an apologetical way, with 
rare learning and skill, in his Credibility of the Gospel 
History (latest edition, in his IForL?, 30 vols. Svo, Lon- 
don, 1827). lie gives brief but painstaking notices 
| of the history and literature of each of the writers 
cited, and his work is to this day one of the most use- 
I ful introductions to the study of the writings of an- 
tiquity. 

There was much controversy in the 18th century 
about the fathers, generally polemical, and inspired 
rather bv the controversial spirit than by the love of 
tru tli. Fo Priestley attacked the fathers in his Corrup- 
tions of Christianity (17b2). Bishop Horsley replied to 
him; and a voluminous issue of tracts followed from 
! both parties (see Horsley, Tracts in controversy with 
Dr. Priestley on the belief of the first Ages with rignrd to 
our Lord's divinity (3d ed. Dundee, 1812). Middleton’s 
Free Inquiry into the miraculous Powers attributed to the 
Early Church ( ) l ’orbs, 1755, vol. i) also gave rise to a 
copious controversy. John Wesley, in reply to it, says 
that “ Middleton seeks to prove that all t ho primitive 
fathers were fools or knaves, and most of them Loth 
one and the other.” He vindicates the aute-Xicene 
fathers from Middleton's charge that they held to all 
the chief “corruptions of Popery.” In his summing 
up lie says of the early fathers, ik I allow that some of 
these had not strong natural sense, that few of them 
had much learning, and none the assistances vhich 
j our age enjoys in some respects above all that went 
before. Hence 1 doubt not but whoever will be at the 
pains of reading over their writings for that poor end 
will find many mistakes, many weak suppositions, and 
many ill-drawn conclusions. And yet I exceedingly 
reverence them, as well as their writings, and esteem 
i them very highly in love. I reverence them because 
: they were Christians; and I reverence their writings 
! because they describe true genuine Christianity, and 
direct us to the strongest evidence of the Christian 
doctrine” (IFor&s, X. Y. ed., v, 705-7G1). 

| 4. A new impulse was given to the study of the fa- 


FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 501 FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 


thers in England by the so-called Catholic revival in 
that Church in the first half ot' the 19th century. The 
old reverence for their authority, and even more, a 
blind following of their guidance, seemed to take pos- 
session of the leaders of that movement. One of its 
best fruits was the publication of the Library of the 
Fathers (see below) The movement gave rise, as is 
well known, to a bitter controversy, reopening the 
whole question of the character of the fathers, their 
trustworthiness as witnesses, their authority as teach- 
ers, and the general utility of studying their writings. I 
We cite a few specimens : 

Coleridge, in his Notes on Ilacket , especially on his I 
Sermons, remarks: “Let any competent judge read 
Hacket’s life of archbishop Williams, and then these j 
sermons, and so measure the stultifying, nugifviug of-, 
feet of a blind and uncritical study of the fathers, and 
the exclusive prepossession in favor of their authority ! 
in the minds of many of our Church dignitaries in the 1 
reign of Charles I” ( IFonfcj, Harpers’ ed. N. Y., v, 1*28). 

Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, who was a hearty hater of the 
Tractari m movement, writes on the authority of the 
fathers as follows: “In fact, it would greatly help to 
clear this question if we understand what we mean by j 
allowing or denying the authority of the so-called fa- 
thers. The term authority is ambiguous, and, accord- 
ing to the sense in which I use it, I should either ac- ! 
knowledge it or deny it. The writers of the first four 
or of the first seven centuries have authority just as 
the scholiasts and ancient commentators have ; some 
of them, and in some points, are of weight singly ; the 
agreement of many of them has much weight; the 
agreement of almost all of them would have great 
weight. In this sense I acknowledge their authority, 
and it would be against all sound principles of criti- 1 
cism to deny it. Rut if by authority is meant a de- 
cisive authority, a judgment which may not be qnes- | 
tioned, then the claim of authority in such a case, for 
any man or set of men, is either a folly or a revelation. 
Such an authority is not human, but divine : if any 
man pretends to possess it, let him show God’s clear 
warrant for his pretension, or he must be regarded as 
a deceiver or a madman. Rut it may be said that an 
authority not to be questioned was conferred by the 
Roman law on the opinions of a certain number of 
great lawyers : if a judge believed that their interpre- 
tation of the law was erroneous, he yet was not at lib- 
erty to follow his own private judgment in departing 
from it. Why may not the same thing be allowed in 
the Church? or why may not the interpretations of 
Cyprian, or Athanasius, or Augustine, or Chrysostom 
be as decisive, with respect to the true sense of the 
Scriptures, as those of Gains, Panins, Modestinus, UI- 
})ian, and Papinian were acknowledged to be with re- 
spect to the sense of the Roman law ? The answer is, 
that the emperor’s edict could absolve the judge from 
following his own convictions about the sense of the 
law, because it gave to the authorized interpretation 
the force of law. The text, as the judge interpreted 
it, was a law repealed ; the comment of the great law- 
yers was now a law in its room. As a mere literary 
composition, he might interpret it rightly, and Gaius 
or Papinian might be wrong; hut if his interpretation 
was ever so right grammatically or critically, yet le- 
gally it was nothing to the purpose ; Gaius’s interpre- 
tation had superseded it, and was now the law which 
he was bound to obey. Rut in the Church, the only 
point to be aimed at is the discovery of the true mean- 
ing of the text of the divine law ; no human power can 
invest the comment with equal authority. The emper- 
or said, and might say to his judges, “You need not 
consider what was the meaning of the decemvirs when 
they wrote the Twelve Tables, or of Aquillius when he 
drew up the Aquillian law. The law for you is not 
what the decemvirs may have meant, but what their 
interpreters meant; the decemvirs’ meaning, if it was 
their meaning, is no longer the law of Rome.’ Rut 


who dare say to a Christian, ‘You need not consider 
what was the meaning of our Lord and his apostles ; 
the law for you now is the meaning of Cyprian, or 
Ambrose, or Chrysostom ; that meaning has supersed- 
ed the meaning of Christ.’ A Christian must find out 
Christ’s meaning, and believe that he has found it, or 
else he must still seek for it. It is a matter, not of 
outward submission, but of inward faith ; and if in our 
inward mind we are persuaded that the interpreter has 
mistaken our Lord's meaning, how can we by possi- 
bility adopt that interpretation in faith ?” {Miscellane- 
ous R r or£s, N. Y. 18-15, p. 274). 

Archdeacon Hare (in his notes to the Mission of the 
Comforter) seeks to show that even the greatest of the 
fathers were inferior, in their understanding of Scrip- 
ture, to the great divines of the Reformation. “ There 
is much truth,” he says, “though perhaps not without 
some exaggeration of phrase, in what Coleridge says 
( Remains , iii, 27G) with reference to Luther, Melanc- 
thon, and Calvin, that ‘the least of them M r as not Infe- 
rior to Augustine, and worth a brigade of the Cyp- 
rians, Firmilians, and the like.’ Surely there is noth- 
ing surprising in this. The marvel, the contradiction 
to the whole course of history would be if this were 
not the case, unless we suppose that the special illu- 
mination which was granted to the apostles was be- 
stowed on the chief teachers of Christianity down to 
the last of the fathers, was then withdrawn, and lias 
been withheld ever since. Rut for such a limitation 
and restriction of the gifts of the Spirit no ground can 
be discovered, either in Scripture or in the nature of 
man ; nor does the history of the Church present any 
facts to support it. ... It is next to a moral impossi- 
bility that men living in the decrepitude of the ancient 
world, under the relaxing and palsying influences of 
the Roman and Byzantine empires, when all intellec- 
tual and moral life was fast waning away, and the 
grand and stirring ideas and aims which had drawn 
forth the energies of the classical nations in their 
prime had been superseded by rhetorical tumor and 
allegorical and grammatical trifling, should have 
mounted to such a pitch of intellectual power as to be 
beyond the reach of the noblest minds in the age when 
all the faculties of the now world were bursting into 
life, and when one region of power after another was 
laid open to man, and called him to rise up and take 
possession of it. . . . There is no antecedent improba- 
bility that a theologian in the sixteenth century 
should he quite as wise and as sound an expounder of 
theological truth as one in the fourth or fifth. Though 
the earlier divines may have had certain special ad- 
vantages, the advantages enjoyed by those in the later 
period were far greater and more important; and if 
they had peculiar temptations to lead them astray, so 
had the others. The epoch at which a man lives does 
not afford us a criterion for judging of the truth of 
what he says, except so far as his testimony may be 
appealed to concerning facts ; in other respects the 
value of his writings must he determined on different 
grounds by candid and intelligent criticism. Nor is 
such criticism less needful with regard to the fathers 
than to any other body of writers. ... To those who 
study the fathers critically and discerningly they still 
yield grains of precious gold in abundance, as we see 
in the excellent exegetical writings of Mr. Trench. 
Rut the superstitious and idolatrous are ever fond of 
displaying their doting by picking out as the special 
objects of their complacency not that which is really 
valuable — other men might approve of that — but that 
which in itself is worthless, nay, mawkishly silly or 
wildly absurd. . . . And with what exactitude is the 
training of some of our patrolaters who are lapsing 
into Romanism here described ! The issue, indeed, so 
far as we are at present acquainted with it, has been 
mainly in one direction — towards Rome. This is not 
because the fathers of the first four or five centuries 
are favorable to the errors and corruptions of Rome. 


FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 502 FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 


The contest on this point has been waged again and ' 
again, and the victory, in the main, has always been 
oil onr side, lint the very habit of looking with pros- 
trate minds to outward human authority, and that, 
too, authority so remote from the special wants and 
yearnings of our age, and incapable of speaking to us 
with that intelligent fellow-feeling which elicits the 
responsive activity of our own spirits — to authority, 
therefore, which can only speak imperatively, except 
to the few whose understandings are mature enough 
to consult it critically, and to distinguish the true 
from the erroneous, the relevant from the irrelevant — 
tends to breed an imbecile tone of judgment which is 
incapable of standing alone, and will not be content 
with the helps wherewith God has supplied us, but 
craves restlessly for some absolute authority whereby 
it may be enabled to walk in leading-strings all its life ■ 
long. Such minds, when one prop after another gives 
way under them, as they find out that no father can 
he appealed to as an absolute authority, least of all on 
the particular questions which agitate our times the 
most, will try to save themselves from falling into in- 
fidelity by catching desperately hold of infallibility. 
And bow how long will this bear them up?” (Hare, 1 
Vindication of Luther , p. 7G-82). 

5. Hut some of the opponents of an undue reverence 
for the fathers have not been wanting in just appre- 
ciation of their historical value. Dr. W. L. Alexan- 
der ( Anglo-Catholicism not Apostolical , Edinb. 1840, 
Svo) gives the following caution against under-esti- 
mating the importance and value of the fathers: 
“There lias been among Protestants a great deal of 
foolish talking and much jesting that is anything but 
convenient upon this subject. Men who have never 
read a page of the fathers, and who could not read 
one we e they to try, have deemed themselves at lib- 
erty to speak in terms of scoffing and supercilious 
contempt of these venerable luminaries of the early 
Church. Because Clement of Borne believed in the 
existence of the phoenix, and because Justin Martyr 
thought the sons of God who are said in Genesis to 
have intermarried with the daughters of men were 
angels, who for the loves of earth were willing to fore- 
go the joys of heaven ; and because legends and old 
wives’ fables enow are found in almost all the fathers, 
it has been deemed wise to reject, despise, and ridicule 
the whole body of their writings. The least reflection 
will suffice to show the unsoundness of such an infer- 
ence. What should we say of one who, because lord 
Bacon held many opinions which modern science has 
proved to be false, should treat the Novum Organum 
with contempt? or of one who should deem himself 
entitled to scoff at Bicliard Baxter because in his 
Saints' Rest that able and excellent man tries to prove 
the existence of Satan by quoting instances of his ap- 
paritions, and of his power over witches? There is 
no man, however good or great, that can get quite be- 
yond the errors and credulities of bis age. It be- 
comes us, therefore, in dealing with the writings of a 
former generation, to take care that, in rejecting the 
bad, we do not also despise the good ; and especially 
that we he not found availing ourselves of advantages 
which have reached us through the medium of these 
writings, while we ignorantly and ungratefully dis- 
honor the memory of those by whom these writings 
were penned.” In the height of the so-called Tracta- 
rian controversy in England, Isaac Taylor wrote his 
Ancient Christianity / and the Doctrines of the Oxford 
Tracts (Bond. 1 8B1>, 2 vols. 8vo; 2d ed. 1844; reprint 
of vol. i, Phi la. 1840, 12mo) for the purpose of laying 
“open the real condition, moral, spiritual, and ecclesi- j 
astical, of the ancient Church and the chief aim and 
tendency of the book is to lessen the authority of the 
fathers, especially of those of the antc-Nicenc period. 
Yet even he devotes a chapter to show tlie dependence 
of t lie modern Church upon the ancient, and to dep- 
recate a “setting at naught” of patristical learning. . 


“It is not, we may be sure, those who possess much 
of this indispensable learning that in any such way 
set it at naught; and it is an acknowledged rule in ail 
walks of science and literature that the scoffs and cap- 
tious objections of the ignorant need not be seriously 
replied tq — ‘know' what you are speaking of, and then 
contemn it.’ Now the mere fact of applying any com- 
prehensive terms, either of admiration or contempt, to 
a body and series of writers, stretching through seven 
hundred or a thousand years, and these writers natives 
as they were of distant countries, some of them simple 
and rude, while others were erudite and accomplished, 
may be taken as a proof of heedlessness, regarding the 
matter in hand, sufficient to excuse a silent disregard 
of the objection it involves. These ‘fathers,’ thus 
grouped as a little band by the objectors, were some 
of them men of as brilliant genius as any age has pro- 
duced ; some commanding a flowing and vigorous elo- 
quence, some an extensive erudition, seme conversant 
with the great world, some whose meditations had 
been ripened by years of seclusion, some of them the 
only historians of the times in which they lived, some 
the chiefs of the philosophy of their age; and if we 
arc to speak of the whole as a series or body of writers, 
they arc the men who, during a long a?ra of deepening 
barbarism, still held the lamp of knowledge and learn- 
ing, and, in fact, afl'ord us almost all that we can now 
know r , intimately, of the condition of the nations sur- 
rounding the Mediterranean, from the extinction of 
the classic fire to the time of its rekindling in the four- 
teenth century. The Church was the ark of all things 
that had life during a deluge of seven hundred years. 
Such is the group which is often conveniently dismiss- 
ed with a concise phrase of contempt by some! It 
may lie suspected that very many of the delighted ad- 
mirers of the History of the Decline and Fall of the Ro- 
man Empire are little aware of the extent of Gibbon’s 
obligations tc— the fathers. Were it possible to draw 
off from that seductive work the entire materials de- 
rived by the indefatigable author fr< m the ecclesiasti- 
cal compartment of his library, it is no small propor- 
tian of the splendor, the accuracy, the correct draw ing, 
the vivid coloring, which are its chaim and praise, 
that would be found wanting. Well would it have 
been if some of the professed champions and histori- 
ans of Christianity had been as the roughly conversant 
with the remains of Christian antiquity as was its 
most dangerous assailant. The ignorance of which 
we are here complaining has once endangered onr faith 
as Christians, and it is now endangering our faith as 
Protestants. Nearly of the san e quality, and usually 
advanced by the same paities, is the portentous insin- 
uation, or the bold and appalling averment, that there 
was little or no genuine Christianity in the. world from 
the times of Justin Martyr to those of Wicklifie, or of 
Luther! and the inference from this assumption is 
that we are far more likely to be led astray than edi- 
fied by looking into the literature of this vast territory 
of religious darkness. I must leave it to those w ho 
entertain any such sombre belief as this to repd, in 
the best manner they are able, those fiery darts of in- 
fidelity which will not fail to he hurled at Christianity 
itself as often as the opinion is professed. Such per- 
sons, too, must expound as they can our Lord’s part- 
ing promise to his servants. Notions of this sort, and 
there are. many of like kind, all take their rise from 
some narrow and sectarian hypothesis concern mg 
Christianity. We do not, perhaps, find, during cer- 
tain cycles of the Church’s history, that style or dia- 
lect which, by an intimate association of ideas, has 
I combined itself with our religious sentiments, and 
therefore it is to us and our peculiar feelings as if 
Christianity itself had actually not been extant at 
such times. If these arc our feelings, it is well that 
we get rid of them with all speed. Christianity is ab- 
solute truth, bearing with various effect, from age to 
age, upon our distorted and discolored human nature, 


FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 503 FATHERS OF THE CHURCH 


but never so powerfully pervading the foreign sub- ' 
stance it enters as to undergo no deflections itself, or 
to take no stains ; and as its influence varies, from age 
to age, in intensity, us well as in the particular direc- 
tion it may take, so does it exhibit, from age to age, j 
great variations of form and hue. But the men of ] 
any one age indulge too much the overweening temper 
that attaches always to human nature when they say 
to themselves, our Christianity is absolute Christian- 
ity, but that of such or such an age was a mere shadow 
of it. All mystification apart, as well as a supersti- 
tious and overweening deference to antiquity, nothing 
can be more simple than the facts on which rests the 
legitimate use and value of the ancient documents of 
Christianity, considered as the repositories of those 
practices and opinions which, obscurely or ambiguous- 
ly alluded to in the canonical writings, are found, 
drawn forth, and illustrated in the records of the times 
immediately succeeding. These records contain at 
once a testimony in behalf of the capital articles of our 
faith and an exposition of minor sentiments and eccle- 
siastical usages, neither of which can be surrendered 
without some serious loss and damage” (Taylor, An- 
cient Christianity, 8vo ed. p. 66-71). 

6. The more recent tendency among the theologians 
of Germany, England, and America is to study the fa- 
thers more thoroughly than ever, but to study them 
in a scientific way, for historical rather than polemical j 
and dogmatical ends; or, where dogmatic interests are 
involved, to use the fathers historically, and not as au- 
thorities. The terms Patristics and Patrology have 
come into use to designate the history and literature 
of the fathers on the one hand [see Patristics], and 
their theology on the other [see Pathology]. These 
branches have not yet taken fully scientific shape, but 
they are on the way to it (sec the references below). 

IV. Collective Editions of the Fathers. — 1. The first 
great collection was that of l>e la Bigne, who formed 
the idea of a collection of the fathers with a view of 
opposing the doctrines of the French Protestants. This 
scheme met with the approbation of his superiors in 
the Sorbonne, and the first eight volumes appeared at 
Paris in 1575, and the 9th in 1579. It is entitled Lih- 
liotkeca Veterum Pat rum et A ntiqnornm Scriptorum Ec - 
Eesiasticorum Latine , and it contained about 200 writ- ' 
ers. The 2d edit., somewhat improved, was published 
at Paris in 1589, 9 vols. fob The fid edit. (Paris, 1609, 
11 vols. fol.) has the addition of an Aucluarium. In 
these editions the writers are classed according to sub- j 
jects. The 4th edit., or rather a new work by the pro- 
fessors of Cologne, has the writers arranged in chrono- 
logical order. It was printed at Cologne in 1608, in 14 
vols. fob, to which in 1622 a supplement in one vol. 
was added. The 5th edit, (or 4th of De la Bigne) was 
published at Paris in 1624, in 10 vols. fob, with the ad- 
dition of an Auctuurium Grceco-Latinum compiled by 
Le Due (the Jesuit Fronto Ducceus), and in 1629 a Sup- 
plement urn Latinum in two vols. was added. The 6th 
edit, (or 5th of De la Bizne), printed at Paris in 1634, in 
17 vols. fob, contains the preceding, with the Auctna - 
rium and Supplementum incorporated. The 7th edit, in 
1654 is merely a reprint of the last. 2. In 1677 ap- 
peared at Lyons (27 vols. fob) the Bibliotheca Patrum , 
which generally and deservedly bears the name of 
Bibliotheca Maxima Patrum Luydnnensis. It contains 
nearly all the writers found in the preceding works, 
together with many others {Latin only), chronologi- 
cally arranged. 3. After this gigantic undertaking, 
no similar work appeared until that of Andr6 (lalland 
was published, under the title of Bibliotheca veterum 
Patrum arttiquorumquc Scriptorum Ecclesiastic ovum pos - 
tremd Lugdunensi multo lo n upletior atque. accuratior , in 
14 vols. fob (Venice, 1766-1781). The Greek texts are 
given, with Latin versions. Galland omits many au- 
thors given in the Bill. Max., but adds also 180 not 
given in it. 4. The most complete edition of both 
Greek and Latin fathers is that of Migne, Patrologix 


Cursus Completes, seu Bibliotheca Universalis , Integra , 
etc., Omnium SS. Patrum, JJoctorum, Scriptorumque Ec- 
cleshrticorum (Paris, 1844-1867). 'Ibis immense col- 
lection includes all the Latin writers from the apostol- 
ical age down to the time of Innocent 1 1 1 (A.D. 1216), 
and the Greeks down to the time of the Council of 
Florence (A.D. 1439). In most cases the Benedictine 
texts are followed. Ample indexes are given, both 
alphabetical and analytical, of the Latin fathers ; those 
for the Greek, unfortunately, were not all finished when 
Migne’s establishment was burned down in 1868. The 
Latin fathers fill, with the indexes, two hundred and 
twenty -two volumes imperial octavo. The Greek 
writers (with Latin versions) take up one hundred and 
sixty-seven volumes of the same size. The Latin ver- 
sion of the Greek fathers is also published separately 
in eighty-four volumes. For purposes of reference, 
there can be no question that this is the most conven- 
ient series of the fathers and ecclesiastical writers ever 
published. Complaints are made of many of the vol • 
nines (and justly) that sufficient care has not been 
taken with the editing; and it is further charged that, 
in some cases, the old literary policy of the Church of 
Pome, of modifying, omitting, and even garbling, for 
polemical purposes, has been followed by Migne. Fcr 
the study of special authors there are, certainly, edi- 
tions to be had more accurate ancl trustworthy than 
Migne’s ; and no student who desires to be thorough, 
in critical study would ever be satisfied without com- 
parison of various editions. But with all drawbacks, 
the fact remains that tue Cu?’$us Completus Patrologix 
is an indispensable necessity to every large theologi- 
cal or historical library. 

Incomplete Collections and Translations. — Among 
these wo cite, 1. A useful abridgment or analysis, in 
alphabetical order, viz. Bib. Max. Patrum in Epitomen 
redacta (Augsb. 1719, 2 vols. fol.); 2. Combeli s, Grx- 
eo-Lat. Patrum Bibliothecae Novum Auditorium (’5648); 
also his Bibliothecae Grxcorum Patrum Auct narium No- 
visdmum (2 parts, 1672) ; 3. Oanisius, Antiqu < Ixciiones 
seu varia veter. monumenta (Ingolstadt, 1601), enlarged 
by Basn age (Ainst. 1672, 4 vols. fol.); 4. Montfaucon, 
Collectio Nova Patrum et Script. Graecorum (Paris, 1706, 

2 vols. fol.) ; 5. D'Achery, Spicilegium sive collectio vet. 
aliquot Scrijytorum (Paris, 1655-77,13 vols. ; Par. 1723, 

3 vols. fol.); 6. Grabe, Spicilegium SS. Patrum lit et 
hae retie, seculi post Christ. 1-111 (2d edit. Oxon. 1714, 2 
vols. 8vo) ; 7. Martene ct Durand, Amplissima collec- 
tio vet. script, et monument, hist. (Paris, 1724-33, 9 vols. 
fob); 8. Louth, Scriptorum Ecclesiasticorum Opuscula 
(2d edit. Oxford, 1840, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 9. Louth, Reliquiae 
Sacra;, sive auctonanftre jam deperditomm 2 et 3 saecu- 
li , accedunt synodi et episi. canon. Niccen. (Oxf. 1846 8, 
5 vols. 8vo) ; 10. Angelo Mai, Script, vet. nova collectio 
(Lomre, 1825-38, 10 vols. 4to) ; 11. Alai, Spicilegium Ro- 
manian (Louise, 1839-44, 10 vols. 8vo) ; 12. Alai, Nora 
Patrum Bibliotheca (Lorn. 1852,7 vols. 4to); 13. Pitra, 
Spicilrgium Soksmense (Par. 1852 sq., 4 vols. 8vo) ; 14. 
( Oxford Selection ), Bib. Pair. Eccl . Catholicic, gui ante 
orient is et occidentis schism a jhruerunt ; delecta Presbv- 
terorum quorlmdam Oxoniensium (Oxf. Svo, 1838, and 
following years — still issuing); 15. ( Oxford transla- 
tion ), Library of the Fathers of the Iloly Catholic Church 
anterior to the division of the East and ) 1 'est (translated 
by members of the English Church ; edited by E. B. 
Pusev, J. Keble, C. Marriott, Oxford, 8vo, 1839, and 
following years ; 40 vols. issued) ; 16. Bibliotheca Pa- 
trum concionatoria, hoc est, aiini. totius , (vangrlia, festa 
dominica, etc., homiliis atque sermonibus adornata SS. 
Patr . et script, ecclcs. qni tredecim prior. sa'C. for., Opera, 
et studio F. Francisci Combefis; editio castigata, etc. ; 
ed.A. Gonel et Ludovic. Pere (Paris, 1852 sq. ; to form 
30 vols. large 8vo) ; 17. {Hand Editions), Oberthiir, Op- 
era Patrum Grxcorum , G’-eck et Lat. (Wired). 1777-92, 
10 vols. 8v<>5 ; Ibid. Op. Patrum Latinorum (1780-91); 
Liehter, Bibliotheca ScBcta Pa'rum Gracorum (Lips. 
1826 et seq., Josephus, Philo, Clemens) ; Thilo , Patrum 


FATHERS OF TIIE CHURCH 504 


FATIO DE DUILLERS 


Greecorum Dogmatica (Leipz. 1853-4, 2 vols. 8vo, Ath- 
anasius, Basil, Gregory Nnzianzen) ; Gersdorf, Pat rum 
‘Pedes. Lat. selecta Bibliotheca (Japs. 1838, 13 vols. 12ino, 
Clemens Rom,, Cyprian, Tertullian, Ambrose, Laetan- 
tius, Arnobius, Minucius Felix; a very correct and 
convenient edition) ; Corpus Scriptor. Pedes. Latino- 
rum (edited under the direction of the Academy of Vi- 
enna, 18GG, and continuing); Corpus Apologetarum se- 
cundi sacu’i (ed. Otto, Jena, 1847, 8 vols. issued); Cor- 
pus IJa’resiologicum (ed. Odder, Berlin, 1856-G5, 5 vols. 
8vo) ; 18. (German Translation), Sammtl. Werke der 
Kircheni'iiter ins Deutsche iibersetzt. (edit. Ziegler and 
Waitzmann, Kempt m, 1831-1854; 39 vols. pnbl. up to 
1854); 19. The Antc-Xicene Christian Library ; trans- 
lations of the Antc-Xicene Fathers, edited by Roberts 
and Donaldson, an admirably conceived and executed 
work. Up to this date (January, 18G9) the following 
have been issued : Yol. i, The. Apostolic Fathers , trans- 
lated by Rev. l)r. Roberts, Dr. Donaldson, and Rev. F. 
Crombie ; vol. ii, The Writings o f Justin Martyr and 
A thenagoras, translated by Rev. Marcus Dods, A. M., 
Rev. George Reith, A. 31., and Rev. B. I*. Pratten ; vol. 
iii, The Writings ofTaticm and Theophilns , and the Clem- 
entine Recognitions , translated by B. P. Pratten, Rev. 
Marcus Dods, A.M., and Rev. T. Smith, D.D. ; vol. iv, 
The Writings of Clement of Alexandria, translated by 
Rev. V. "Wilson, M.A. ; vol. v, The Writings of Jrenecus , 
translated by Rev. A. Roberts and Rev. W. H. Ram- 
baut; vol. vi, The Refutation of all Heresies by Ilip- 
polytus , translated by Rev. .1. H. Macmahon, 31. A.; 
with Fragments from his Commentaries on various 
Books of Scripture, translated by Rev. S. D. F. Sal- 
mond ; vol. vii, The Fire Books of Tertullian against 
Marcion , translated by Peter Holmes, D.D. ; vol. vi ii. 
The Writings of Cyprian , Bishop of Carthage, vol. i, con- 
taining the Epistles and some of the Treatises, trans- 
lated by Rev. E. Wallis, Pin D. ; vol. ix, Ireneeus, vol. 
ii, translated by Rev. H. Roberts and Rev. W. II. Ram- 
baut ; vol. x, The Writings of Origen, translated by 
Rev. F. Crombie, M.A. For editions of the fathers 
separately, see the individual names in their alpha- 
betical places. 

III. ! I T orks on the Fathers; their literary history, 
their use, authority , etc . — 1. .lerome (f 420), De Viris 
lllustnbus s. cat (do gus Scriptor. Eccles. (Migne, Patrol. 
Lai. xxiii, G02 sq., many editions and recensions; the 
work is the basis of Fabricius, Bibliotheca Ecclesiastical 
Hamburg, 1718, fob); 2. Photius (f 8901, \ltfi\io6i)ici]. 
Bibliotheca (Migne, Patrol. Grac. vols. ciii, civ), con- 
taining sketches of 280 pagan and Christian writers ; 3. 
Bellarmine, Liber de Scriptor. Ecclesiasticis (Rom . 1G13, 
and often) ; 4. Cave, Scriptorum Eccles. Ilistoria Liter- 
aria, ad sa?c. xiv (2 parts, Lond.lG88-98 ; Genev. 1705, 
1720; Basel, 1741; Oxford [continued by Wharton], 
1740-43, 2 vols. fol.); 5. Dupin, Nouv. Bibliothequc des 
Auteurs EccUsiastiques (Paris, 1G86-169S, 47 vols. Svo; 
Amst. 1G93-1715, 19 vols. 4to ; Latin version, Pa’ is, 
1G92 sq., 3 vols. 4to [up to Augustine]; English ver- 
sion, including 17th centuiy, bond. 1G93-1707, 17 vols. 
bound in 7 or 8 ; Dublin, 1722-24, 3 vols. fob [without 
the 17th century]; see Dupin); G. Ceillier, Histo’re 
Generate des Auteurs Saeres et eeclesiastiques (Par. 1729- 
63, 23 vols. 4to; new edition, revised with additions, 
Paris, 18G0-18G5, 15 vols. imp.8vo; see Ceillier); 7. 
Tillemont, Mi-moires pour servir a I'histoire ecclesias- 
tiqve (Par. 1G93, 1G vols.) ; 8. Gudin, Commentarius de 
Scriptor. Eccles. antiquis, professing to fill up the gaps 
left by Cave, Dupin, etc. (Lips. 1722, 3 vols. fob); 9. 
bo Nourrv, Apparatus Criticus ad Bihl. A fax. Pair. 
(Paris, 1703-15, 2 vols. fob); 10. Tricalct, Bibliothequc 
portative des peres de I'eglise (Paris, 1757-62, 9 vols. 
8vo) ; 11. Sprengcr, Thesaurus rei patristica 1 (Wirceb. 
1782-94, 3 vols. 4to); 12. Lumper, Hist. theologico-Crii - 
ica de vita scriptis , etc., SS. Rntrum (Aug. Yiiul. 3783- 
99, 33 vols. Svo) ; 33. Fabricius, Bibliotheca Graca, etc. 
(Ilamb. 1708-28, 14 vols. ; ed. by Harless. 1790 to 1812, 
12 vols. including Index) ; Fabricius, Bibliotheca Ecclc- 


siastica (mentioned above) ; Fabricius, Bibliotheca La- 
tina (see Fabricius); 14. Walcli, Bibliotheca Patris - 
trica (Jena, 1770 ; new ed. by Danz, Jena, 1834, Svo) ; 
15. ( Introductions to Patristics and Patj'ology), Wilhelm 
(lb Cath.), Patrohgia ad usus academ. (Frcib. 1775); 
Engelluirdt, Leiifaden zu Vorlesungen iib. die Patristik 
(Erlangen, 1823) ; Goldwitzer (lb C.), Bibliographic d. 
Kirchen-Vater (N urn berg, 1833-4, 2 vols. 8vo, not of 
mucli value); Locherer(lb C.), Lehrbuch der Patrologie 
(Mainz, 1837, Svo); Permaneder (lb C.), Patrologia 
generalis, specialis (Landslnit, 1841-43, 2 vols. Svo) ; 
Mohler (lb C.), Patrologie, ed. by Reitbmayr (Regens- 
burg, 1840; only first vol. finished, covering first three 
centuries) ; Fessler (lb C.), Institutionrs Patrol ., up to 
Gregory the Great (1850-51, 2 vols. Svo); Alzog (lb 
C.), Gruiulriss d. Patrologie (Frcib. 18GG, Svo) ; Donald- 
son, Critical History of Christian Literature, etc. (men- 
tioned above, Lond. 18G4, 3 vols. 8vo) ; 1G. ( On the Use 
of the Fathers'), Nat. Bonaventura (lb C.), Tr elite de la 
lecture des Peres (Paris, 1G88-97) ; also in Latin, De opt , 
meth. legend, cede sins. Pair. (August. Vind. 1756, Svo) ; 
Daille (see above), Rigid Use of the Fathers (Phil. 1842, 
12mo); Goode, Divine Rule of Faith, etc. (Lond. 1853, 
3 vols.; Phila. 2 vols.); Peck, Appeal from Tradition 
(N. York, 3844); and other works cited under Faith, 
Rule or (q. v.) ; also Campbell, Prelim. Dies, to Four 
Gospels (diss. iv); Alii ton, Prelatical Episcopacy ( Prose 
Works, vol. i) ; Conybeare, Examination of the Ante - 
Xicene Fathers (Bampton Lect. 1839); Taylor, Ancient 
Christianity (Lond. 2 vols. Svo) ; Hare, Vindication of 
Luther; Blunt, Right Use of the Early Fathers, against 
Daille and others (London, 1857, Svo) ; S chaff, Church 
History , i, 453 sq. ; Moses Stuart, in Bibliotheca Sacra , 
i, 125 sq, ; Jahrbucher f ur deutsche Theologie, 18G7, 2, 
35G ; 18G7, 4, 7G0 ; F. Nitzsch, in Jahrbucher f. deutsche 
Theologie , x, 37 sq. ; Schwann, Dcgmengeschichte der 
patrist. Zeit. (Munster, 18G7, Svo) ; Huber. Die Philoso- 
phic d. Kirchenvater (Munchen, 1867, Svo) ; Levestre, 
Dictionnaire de Patrologie (Paris, 5 vols. Svo). Brief 
sketches of the lives of the fathers may be found in 
Hook, Ecclesiastical Biography (8 vols. 12mo, London, 
1845-52); Evans, Biography of (he Early Chunk (2d 
edit. London, 1859. 2 vols. 18mo) : copious biographies 
of them in Boh ringer, Kirchcngeschickte in Biograpliien 
(Zurich, 9 parts, 1842-58). 

Fathom ( opyvid ), a nautical measure of six 
(Greek) feet in length (strictly G‘81 Engl, feet); \ rop- 
er! v (as the word implies) the space which one can 
cover by extending the arms laterally (Acts xxvii, 
28). See Measure. 

Fatio de Duillers, Nicolas, a learned mathe- 
matician and an eccentric religious enthusiast, was 
born at Basle, in Switzerland, Feb. 16, 1GG4, and died in 
the county of Worcester, England, in 1753. He was 
educated in Geneva, visited and spent some time in 
Paris and the Hague, but finally chose England for 
his home. lie early showed great ability in the ex- 
act sciences, and at the age of eighteen propounded a 
new theory of tlic earth and of the rings of Saturn in 
a letter to Cassini, to whose theory of zodiacal light 
lie in 1685 gave new developments, lie made several 
useful and curious applications of science to practical 
life, one of which was a new method of determining 
the speed of a vessel. In the controversy regarding 
the discovery of the differential calculus he was an 
earnest supporter of the claims of Newton. Later in 
life he adopted extravagant views on religious sub- 
jects, fras an ardent champion of the prophets of the 
Cevennes, and claimed for himself inspiration and the 
gift of prophecy and miracles. Neither the ridicule 
which Shaftesbury, in his letter on enthusiasm, aimed 
at him, nor his public exposure with two other persons 
on the pillory in London (Sept. 1707) “for abetting 
and favoring Elias Marion in his wicked and coun- 
terfeit prophecies,” had the effect to cure him of his 
enthusiasm, lie even went to Asia in the hope of 


FATLING 


505 


FAUCIIET 


converting the world, but, not meeting with success, I 
returned to England again, and spent his time in re- 
tirement, pursuing his scientific labors, but still cher- 
ishing his extravagant religious opinions. Many sci- 
entific works from his pen are extant, but his writings | 
in favor of the prophets of the Oevennes arc now un- 
known. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biographic Generate , xvii, 138. 
(J. W. M.) 

Fatling. 1. meri' , a fatted animal, espe- 

cially bullock (“caif”) for slaughter, 2 Sam. vi, 13; 
Isa. xi, 6; Ezek. xxxix, 18. 2. n*2, me ach. a mar- 

rowg sheep (q. v.), especially of the fat-tailed variety 
(Psa. Ixvi, 15). 3. Improperly for iird’O, mishneli , 

the second in rank, i. e. of inferior quality, 1 Sam. xv, 
9. 4. (Corresponding with No. 1), oitkttu^, com fed, 

i. e. stalled, fat, Matt, xxii, 4. See Eat. 

Fatoii, Nicholas, a French mystic writer, born at 
Arras in 1044, died at St. Omcr in 1694, took the vows 
of the Dominican order in the convent at Arras, and 
subsequently entered that at St. Omcr. We have 
from him : 1. Le Paradis terrestre da Saint Rosaire de 
Vauguste Vurge, mere de Dieu , etc., in 4 vols., of which 
only one vol. appeared (St. Omer et Lille, 1092, 12mo) : 
— 2. A treatise on the famous miracle of the holy can- 
dle, entitled Discours sur l j s Prodiges du Saint Cierg?, 
etc., of which the first edition, quite rare, St. Omer, 
1693; the second and third, Arras, 1696, sm. 8vo, and 
1744, 12mo. — Hoefcr, Nouv. Biog. Gen. 

Fatted Fowl (C*'D : C5< barburhn abu- 

sim ', Sept. ogviSwv itc\ tKr ion a.T(i>rei, Vulg. ares {Uti- 
les') are included in 1 Kings iv, 23 [v, 3], among the 
daily provisions for Solomon’s table. Gesenius (Thes. 
Jleb. ]>. 246) prefers to translate this “ fatted geese,” 



Egyptians, whose monuments abound with illusfcra* 
tions of their rearing and culinary application. See 
Fowl. 

Faucher, Denis, a French theologian, was born 
at Arles, A. I). 1487, and died at the abbey of Lerin3 
in 1502. In 1508 he entered the Benedictine order at 
the convent of Polinore, near Mantua, and in 1515 was 
sent to the monastery of Lerins, of which he in ad- 
vanced years became prior. His 'works are 4>und in 
Vincent Barrale’s (of Salerno) Chronologia Sanctorum 
et Aliorum virorum illustrium ac Abbatum Sacne insulas 
Lerinensis (Lyon, 1013, 4to). — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. 

Faucher, Jean, a French Protestant preacher and 
controversialist, died at Nismes in 1028. He was min- 
ister at Uzes, when he was sent in 1011 by the Pro- 
testant churches of Lower Languedoc as deputy to the 
Assembly at Sommiores, and in 1015 to that at Greno- 
ble. When tins latter assembly was in the following 
year transferred to Nismes, Faucher was chosen pas- 
tor and professor of theology in that city. He, how- 
ever, followed the assembly to Rochelle, and did not 
return to Nismes until 1017, after the conclusion of a 
peace. He was a man of great energy of character, 
and agreed in opinion with those Huguenots who 
hoped by force of arms to secure liberty of conscience, 
if not the triumph of the Protestant cause in France. 
He persistently advocated a policy in consonance with 
such views in the assembly from 1015 to 1617, as in- 
deed also in that convoked by the duke of Rohan in 
August, 1022, to agree upon terms of peace 'with the 
king, declaring that to open their cities to him would 
prove the sacrifice of their liberties. Only two works 
from his pen are known, viz., Exorcismes divins, ou 
jsropositions Chretiennes pour chasser les demons et lea 
esprits abnseurs qui troublent les royaumes 


la Saint ete du Mariage et particuliere- 
ment du Manage des ecclesiustiqnes , contre 
V usage des sous-introduites et autres impu- 
retes des consciences cautdrizees (Nismes, 
1027, sm. 8vo). — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate ; Haag, La France protestante. (J. 
W. M.) 

Fatichet, Claude, commonly known 
as the abbe Fauchet, and a prominent 
Girondist in the French Revolution, was 
born at Domes, in the department of 
Nievre, Sept. 22, 1744, and was guillo- 
tined at Paris Oct. 31, 1793. After his 
ordination he became one of the priests 
of St. Roch, at Paris. When scarcely 30 
years of age he delivered a panegyric 
An ancient Egyptian Poulterer’s Shop, showing the feeding and plucking of on St. Louis before the I 1 rencli Academy, 
Geese. and was soon thereafter appointed grand 

r . .. , , J „ , vicar to the archbishop of Bourges ; then 

referring the word to the root “to be pure, be- » , , , \ i «. e i\r 

° -* 1 1 ’ one of the court preachers, and abbot of Montfort- 

cause of the pure whiteness of the bird. He gives j Lacarre in Brittanv. In a sermon delivered in 1788 
reasons for believing that the same word in the cog- at tho n te de ia f> mVere at Surenes, he manifested so 

f <1 1 O D 1 O t fno 1 n /’ll lt/1 Arl n 1 . > i-L * ** _ 


nate languages included also the meaning of swan 
(comp. Bochart, Ilieroz. ii, 127). Michaelis \Suppkm. 
p. 220) less aptly interprets field animals (from the 


strongly his sympathy with the revolutionary ten- 
dency that his name was stricken from the list of 
court preachers. Thenceforth an outspoken and zeal- 


Chald. *">2, a fold). W hetlier domestic poultry was ous champion of the now political doctrines, lie was 
much raised by the Hebrews has been a matter of dis- active in the popular meetings in Paris, a participant 
pute ; but no good reason can be assigned why they in the movements against, the Bastile, was named a 
should not in this respect have been as well supplied member of the Commune de Paris, and assisted in the 
as their neighbors the Egyptians, who gave great at- i reorganization of the Church by composing the treatise 
tention to them. See Hex. As it is pretty generally entitled ReVgion Nationale, and was one of the editors 
conceded that some kind of bird is intended by the of the Bouche de Per (Iron Mouth'). In 1791 he was 
barbur here designated, none can in this particular made constitutional bishop of Calvados, from which 
compete with the dung-hill fowl ; and the fattening department he was chosen a deputy to the Assembly 
implies their domestication, while the fact of their dai- and the Convention, where, though a zealous Repub- 
ly consumption at the royal table argues their exten- 1 lican, lie opposed the extreme measures taken in re- 
sive cultivation and common use. Geese, however, j gard to the king and the Church, supporting b} r his 
may very probably be intended, as they were an es- pen in the Journal des Amis the positions maintained 
teemed article of food anciently, especially among the , by him in the Legislature. He consequently incur- 


FAFCIIEUR 


50G 


FAFNT 


red the hatred of the Jacobins, and was included in 
the list of '21 Girondists proscribed by that party; was 
accused of federalism and complicity in the crime of 
Charlotte Corday, though the only ground on which 
this last charge was based was the accidental fact that 
Corday, coming to Paris an entire stranger, had ap- 
plied to him, as the bishop of her province, for an in- 
troduction to the tribunes. lie was, however, ad- 
judged guilty, and executed with his fellow-Girondist 
deputies. The statements as to his repentance and 
recantation of Republican doctrines in prison, made by 
the able Lothringer (letter in vol. iv of .4 mi ales Caiho- 
liques ), and of his venality by De Molleville ( Mamins , 
ii, Ujo-O), rest upon too questionable grounds to be 
accepted as true. In addition to the discourses and 
writings above mentioned, he published funeral ora- 
tions in honor of the duke of Orleans, the archbishop 
of Po urges, and the abbe de FEpee; a eulogium of 
Franklin, three discourses on liberty, and one on the 
agreement of religion and liberty, a treatise in favor 
of the agrarian law, and a portion of the text of the 
Tableau de la Revolution. — lloefer, Xouv. Blog. Getter. 
xvii, 1G3-5; Lamartine, History of the Girondists ; Jar- 
ry (Table Valmcron), Id A hie Fauchet point par lui- 
mcme, etc. (Jersey, 17iH) ; Vie de l' Abbe Fauchet (Paris, 
1701) ; Alison, History of Europe. (J. W. M.) 

Faucheur, Michel le, a French Protestant di- 
vine of great talent as a preacher, was successively 
minister at Montpellier, Charenton, and Paris. He 
died in 1657. It is related of him that on one occasion 
he preached so forcibly against duels that mareclial De 
la Force, who heard him, remarked to some officers in 
the audience that, should a challenge he sent to him, 
lie would decline it. He wrote, Sermons sur les orze 
premiers chopitres des Actes dts A pot res (Gen. 1664, 4 
vols. 12mo): — Traite de V action de V orate ur , ou de h 
prononciation et du geste (Par. 1657, 12mo) : — Sermon , 
Rom . vi, 23 : The wages of sin and. the re ward of grace 
(translated in C’obhin's French French r ): — Traite sur 
1' Eucharistic (Gen. 1635), etc. — Darling, Cycbp. Biblio- 
graphical s. v. 

Fauchion, i. e. falciiion, is the rendering (Ju- 
dith xiii, 6 ; xvi, 9) of the Greek diaveh :tjC (which the 
Romans also Latinized acmaces), a Persian term for 
the short sword, usually represented as a^ straight, 
thick poniard on the Persepolitan figures (see Smith, 



Diet, of Class. Ant. s. v. Acinaces), and therefore appro- 
priately employed in the apocryphal account of the de- 
capitation of llolofcrnes by the Ilebrewess. See 
Sword. 

Faukelius, IIermanxits, was born at -Bruges 
about the year 1560. His parents were /warmly at- 
tached to the Protestant cause. At twenty we find 
him in a theological seminary at Ghent. Here he en- 
joyed the instructions of able professors, among whom 


1 was Danrcus (q. v.). After leaving Ghent, where he 
distinguished himself as a student, lie spent a short 
time at the ITiiversity of Leyden. In 1585 he was 
called to servo a Protestant church at Cologne, where 
lie labored for fourteen years amid many discourage- 
ments. On June 27, 1599, lie was installed over the 
Reformed church in Middelburg, the chief city of Zea- 
land, where he spent the remainder of his life. He 
had great reputation as a preacher. 1 1 is learning was 
profound, his exhortations earnest and impressive, and 
his deportment exemplary. In ecclesiastical affairs 
he acted a conspicuous part. He was member and as- 
■ sessor of the Provincial Synod held at Tholen in 1602, 

| and was delegated in 1607 to the Conventus praparato - 
rius at the Hague, where his opposition to the Armin- 
ian tendency was strongly exhibited. He assured 
the Convention that the churches of Zealand desired 
no revision of the Catechism and Confession. In 
1616 the task was assigned to him, in conjunction with 
Buceius and Walseus, to make known to the scholars 
| and to universities in other lands the condition of ec- 
clesiastical a flairs in Holland. At the organization 
of the Synod of Dort he was chosen one of t lie assess- 
ors of that famous body. At its forty-third session he 
was selected as one of the deputation sent to the 
Hague to report the proceedings of synod to the States 
General. During- its thirteenth session lie was ap- 
pointed one of the translators of the New Testament. 
For this work he was eminently fitted. Of this he 
had given previous evidence in his translation of the 
N. T., published in 1G17 at Middelburg, entitled, Jht 
Xicvwe Testament onses Ilecren Jcsu Christ ! , vit dm 
griecksda n orergheset , net rstelick nu cversien na de beste 
t versetdngm , aide van reel druclfavten ghesvynrt ; met 
vieuwe sommutien ende afdedinghen der caj ittelcn , midts- 
gaders annotaticn aan den Rant tot rerclarivyhe ran 
den text. In his knowledge of the Hebrew he is said 
to have surpassed most of his contemporaries. The 
historical bocks of the 0. T. were translated by him, 
and neatly written out in two folio volumes, which 
are still preserved in the vestry of the Reformed church 
in Middelburg. Other important labors were also as- 
signed him 1 y the Synod. lie was appointed one cf 
a committee to compare the Latin, Dutch, and French 
copies of the Confession, in order to obtain as accurate 
a copy as possible. He. was also a member of the com- 
mittee appointed to draft articles on the five disputed 
points known as the Cancns of the Synod of Dort. See 
Dort. He was also requested to prepare two cate- 
chetical works. I let Kart begrip dcr Christclijle F.eli- 
gie (Compendium of the Christian Religion) is due to 
his pen. This may still he found in company with 
the Heidelberg Catechism, Confession of Faith, etc., in 
the book of praise used by the Reformed Church in 
this country. He published a work on the Anabap- 
tists in 1621. After his death, an exposition of the 
45th Psalm, and a volume of sermons on the incarna- 
tion, circumcision, death, and resurrection of the Lord 
Jesus were issued. Various other important trusts, 
besides those already mentioned, were discharged by 
him with exemplary zeal. AVe find nothing alleged 
against him, even by Brandt, save his strenuous oppo- 
sition to the Remonstrants; and even in this matter 
he is not charged with anything inconsistent with the 
dignity of his position. If he lacked in Christian 
charity and forbearance, it was a fault in which he 
docs not seem to have shared more deeply than most 
of his contemporaries. He died May 9, 1625, and w as 
buried under the old church in Middelburg. £ec Gla- 
sius, Godgdterd Xederland, I Deel, ldz. 455 en verv; 
G. Brandt, Historic der R< forma tie, en andere kerlclijke 
Gcschied<nis>en in en omtrent de Xederlanden, 111 Deel, 
biz. 27, 53, 226, 227, 233, 544, 627, 645, 648. (J. P. W.) 

Faimt, Arthur, or Laurence, Arthur, an Eng- 
lish Jesuit, was born at Boston, Leicestershire, in 1544, 
and died at Ulna, in Lithuania, in 1591. He was ed- 
ucated at Merton College, Oxford, and thence went 


FAURE 


507 


FAUSTA 


successively to the Jesuits’ College at Louvain, to 
Paris, Munich, and Rems, where he was appointed di- 
vinit3 r reader in the English Jesuits’ College. Lie 
wrote several theological treatises, for an account of 
which, see Watts, Bib. Brit. — Rose, New Gen. Biog. 
Diet. ; Allibone, Diet, of Authors. 

Fame, Charles, a French Roman Catholic theo- 
logian, born at Luciennes, near Paris, in 1591; died 
Nov. 4, 1644. lie was the first superior-general of the 
regular canons of the Congregation of France, and de- 
voted his life to the reform of the religious orders. 
He is the author of several religious works, among 
which is the Dictionnaire des Novices (Paris, 1711, 4to). 
— Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate. 

Fame, Francois, a French prelate, born Nov. 8, 
161*2; died May 11, 1687. lie entered the Franciscan 
order at tiie age of seventeen, and rose to the highest 
positions therein ; was appointed sub-preceptor of 
Louis XIV, and finally bishop of Amiens. We have 
from him a condemnation of the Lettres Provinciates; 
an Ordonnance contre le Nouveau Testament de Mans 
(1673) : a Paw gyrique de Louis ATT (Paris, 1680, 4to) ; 
an Oruison f unebre de la reine Anne d'A ut riche (died 
1666); and an Oruison fambre de lien rietle- Marie de 
France , reine de la Grande-Bretague (Paris, 1670, Ito). 

- — Hoefer, Nouv. Blog. Generate. 

Faust, Dn., according to tradition, a celebrated deal- 
er in the black art. (The following account, chiefly 
translated from Pierer, Universal- Lexicon , is taken from 
Chambers, Encyclopedia , s. v.) He was born probably 
about A.D. 1480, at lvnittlingen (or Kundlingen), in 
WUrtemberg, or, as some say, at Roda, near Weimar. 
He is said to have studied magic at Cracow. “After 
having spent a rich inheritance left him by his uncle, 
Faust is alleged to have made use of his ‘power’ to 
raise or conjure up the devil, with whom he entered 
into a contract for twenty-four years, obtaining during 
that time his fill of earthly pleasure, blit at its termi- 
nation surrendering body and soul into the hands of 
the great enemy. The devil gave him an attendant 
spirit or daemon, called Mephistopheles, though other 
names are given him by the later traditionists, with 
whom he travelled about, enjoying life in all its forms, 
and astonishing people by working wonders, till he 
was finally carried off by the Evil One, who appeared 
in terrible guise between twelve and one o’clock at 
night, at the village of Rimlich, near Wittenberg, 
though several other places lay claim to that very 
questionable honor. Some have doubted, considering 
the monstrously mythical form in which his career 
has come down to us, whether such an individual as 
Faust ever existed; but it is now generally believed 
that there was a basis of fact, on which tradition has 
built its grotesque superstructure. Gorres, indeed, as- 
serts that one George Sabellieus, who disappeared 
about the year 1517, is the real Faust; but Philip Me- 
lancthon — the man of all the reformers whose word in 
regard to a matter of fact would most readily be trust- 
ed — sa}*s that he had himself conversed with Dr. Faus- 
tus. Conrad Gesner (1561) is equally positive ; and 
Luther, in his Table Talk, speaks of Dr. Faust as a 
man lost beyond all hope. The opinion that prevails, 
and which is reckoned to be intrinsically the more 
probable, is that some man of this name, possessed of 
varied knowledge, may possibly have practised jug- 
glery (for the wandering savans of the Middle Ages 
had all a touch of the quack about them), and thus 
have been taken by the ignorant people for a dealer 
in the black art, and one who maintained a secret and 
intimate relation with evil spirits. 1 1 is widely diffused 
celebrity not only occasioned the wonders worked b}* 
other so-called necromancers of an earlier age — Albcr- I 
tus Magnus, Simon Magus, and Paracelsus — to be at- 
tributed to him, but likewise many ancient tales and 
legends of a marvellous character were gradually 
transferred to him, till he finally appears as the very [ 


1 hero of magicians. But while, on the cne hand, the 
| narrative of Faust's marvels afforded amusement to 
the people, on the other they were made use of for in- 
struction by the clergy, who pointed out, in the fright- 
ful fate of Faust, the danger of tampering with the 
‘black art,’ and the abominableness of a life sunk in 
sensuality and vice. The myth of Faust has received 
a manifold literary treatment. First come the Volks- 
b it alter (or people’s books), which record Faust's enter- 
prises and feats. The oldest of these now known. ap- 
peared at Frankfort in 1588. Then came an 4 im- 
proved’ edition of the same, by Widmann, entitled 
Wuhrlwf ige Historian von denen grdulichen S unden Dr. 
Joh. Faust's (True History of the Horrible Crimes of 
Dr. John Faust, Hainb. 3 vols. 1599); and in 1G95, a 
work was published at Niirnberg by Pfitzer, based 
upon that of Widmann. The oldest of these books was 
translated into all the civilized languages of Europe. 
Impostors also published books of magic under the 
name of Faust, such as Faust's grosser und gewakiger 
Ilbllenzwang (Faust’s Great and Potent Book of Spells), 
Fa ustcu's Alirakelkunst (Faust’s Art of Performing 
Miracles), and Dreifache Ilollenzwang (The Threefold 
Book of Spells). r l hese wretched productions are fill- 
ed throughout with meaningless scrawls and figures, 
interspersed with texts from the Bible scandalously 
misapplied ; but in the belief of the vulgar, they were 
supposed capable, when properly understood, of accom- 
plishing prodigies. That the poetical art should in 
due time have seized on a subject affording so much, 
material for the fancy to work upon was inevitable, 
and consequently German literature abounds in ele- 
gies, pantomimes, tragedies, and comedies on Faust. 
Since the cud of the 17th century, the Puppenspiel 
(Puppet-show) of Dr. Faust (published at Leipsic in 
1850) has been one of the most popular pieces in Ger- 
many. It forms the transition from the rude magic 
talcs concerning Faust to the later philosophic con- 
ception of the Faust-myth, which has become the most 
perfect poetical expression of the eternal strife between 
good and evil in the -oul of man. The first writer 
who treated the sto:y of Faust dramatically was the 
English writer Christopher Marlowe, about the year 
1600 (German translation by W. Muller, Berlin, 1818) ; 
but the grandest work on the subject is Goethe’s Faust , 
the first part of which appeared under the title of Dr. 
Faust , ein Trauerspiel (Leip. 1790), and afterwards in 
a remodelled form, under the title of Faust, ei/te Trag- 
oilie (Tubingen, 1808). The second part was published 
after the author’s death, at Stuttgart, in 1833. Be- 
sides Goethe’s drama may he mentioned Lessing’s 
masterly fragment, Faust und die Siebm Geister (Faust 
and the Seven Spirits'), G. F. L. Muller’s Dr. Faust's 
Leben (Dr. Faust’s Life, Mannh. 1778), and Klinger’s 
Faust's Leben , Thaten , und Ildllenfuhrt' (Faust's Life, 
Doings, and Descent into Hell; Petersburg and Leip. 
1791). The plastic art has also found a fit subject in 
Faust. In Auerbach’s cellar at Leipsic, where Faust 
is said to have performed many of his feats, are two 
rude daubs of the year 1525, representing Faust and 
Mephistopheles riding out of the cellar on a wine-bar- 
rel. Rembrandt and Christoph von Siehem have also 
illustrated the story of Faust, and, in modern times, 
Cornelius and Retzsch have done the same. See Pe- 
ter, Die Literatur der Faustsage (The Literature of 
the Faust Myth), 2d edit. Leip. 1851.” 

Fausta, Fla via Maxi mi ana, daughter of the em- 
peror Maximianus Ilerculius and Eutropia, was the 
second wife of Constantine the Great, to whom she 
bore three sons, Constantinus, Constantins, and C'on- 
stans, and two daughters, Constantina and Helena. 
She was born about A.D. 289, was married in 307, and 
put to death in 32G, if the general opinion in regard to 
her end be correct. She gained great influence over 
the mind of her husband by her devotion in revealing 
to him a plot, formed by her own father, to assassinate 
him, though with filial tenderness she covenanted for 


FATJSTIXUS 


508 


FAUSTUS REIEXSIS 


the life of her parent, who was notwithstanding put to | 
death. This confidence and affection, as is alleged by • 
some, slie abused so as to instigate the death of Cris- 
pins Constantine’s son by his first wife Minervinn, a 
youth of rare promise and great popularity, because, 
as some say, he stood in the way of her own sons, or, 
according to others, of his refusal to reciprocate her 
illicit love. Helena, the mother of the emperor, how- 
ever, avenged the fate of her grandson, and Fausta, 
whose perfidy and infidelity were made known, was j 
suffocated in a hot bath. Other accounts, however, 
hold Fausta innocent of the death of Crispus, which, 
together with her own and that of the Caesar Licinius, j 
is attributed to the cruel suspiciousness of Constan- 
tine, engendered by success— that insolentia rerum se- 
eundarum , as Eutropius styles it, which perverted his 
nature and led to deeds of cruelty. The vague and j 
contradictory statements in regard to her conduct., and 
to the time, cause, and manner of her death, leave the 
whole matter in doubt. In one account she is made 
to survive the death of her son Constantine, who was 
slain three years after his father’s death, and in anoth- 
er is represented as the “ most pious of queens.” Iler 
conversion to Christianity is also a matter of doubt, 
though she probably followed her husband in that re- 
gpect. — lloefer, Xouv. Biogr. Generale , s. v. : Gibbon, 
Decline and Fall , ii, 1G23 (X. Y. Harpers’, 1852, G vols. 
12m o) ; Tillcmont, Hist, des Emp . vol. iv, art. lxii, p. 
224, and Xotes sur Constantin , xvii ; Eckhel, Doctrina 
Xummorum , viii, 98; Eutropius, x, G; Eactantius, De 
Morte Persecute 27: Julian, Orat. i; Zosimus, ii, 10, 
29 ; Philostorgius, Hist. Eccles. ii, 4. (J. AY. M.) 

Faustinus, bishop of Lyons, lived in the second 
part of the third century. He became bishop about 
the year 250, and distinguished himself by his zeal for 
the faith, and the ardor with which he attacked Mar- 
cianus, bishop of Arles, the only Gallic bishop who 
had embraced Xovatianism. Unable to accomplish 
anything by himself, he made sure of the aid of the 
bishops of the Xarbonnaise, and wrote to the pope, 
Stephen, to obtain the deposition of Mareianus. The 
pope hesitated, and Faustinus, in order to hasten mat- i 
ters, wrote to Cyprian, bishop of Carthage. The two 
letters which he wrote no longer exist, but they form 
the material of the sixty-seventh letter of Cyprian to 
pope Stephen, which gives a curious picture of the 
Gallic Church at that period. Mareianus persisted in 
his schism, and the result of the affair is uncertain, 
hut it is probable that he was deposed, since his name 
is not found in the list of the bishops of Arles. — Iloe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generale , xvii, 199. 

Faustinus, a priest of the sect of the Luciferians 
(q. v.) in the fourth century. He shared in the perse- 
cution they experienced, but was set free by the inter- 
vention of the emperor Theodosius, to whom he pre- 
sented a petition praying for protection to he extended 
to himself and others who associated with him ; this 
the emperor granted, and Damasus’s papal persecutions 
were stayed. lie wrote a treatise, De T rimtaic sire de 
Fide contra Ariancs (Concerning the Faith, against the 
Arums). The discourse is dedicated to the empress 
Flaeilla, and divided into seven chapters. He begins 
hv stating the heresies of the Arians, and then combats 
them from Scripture. In chap, ii he proves that the 
word Son belongs to our Saviour, hut leaves untouch- 
ed the question whether the word applies to him as 
God or man, taking for granted the former; in chap, 
iii he shows the omnipotence and perpetual endurance 
of Christ; explains in chap, iv John xiv, 28; in chap, 
v, the qualifications implied in Acts ii, 3G are pointed 
out as belonging only to God ; and chap, vii is .a short 
dissertation on the Holy Spirit. He wrote also Fides 
Theodosio imp. oblata (accordipg to Mabillon, about 
A.D. 380) : — Libcllus Precinn , a petition addressed to 
the emperors Valentinian and Theodosius, relating and 
requoting to be freed from the persecutions which lie, 


Marcellinus, and others were suffering in consequence 
of being Luciferians. A short account of this sect is 
prefixed bv Faustinus to the petition. His remains 
will he found in Galland, Bib. Max. Pair, vii, 441, and 
in Aligne, Patrol. Cursus , xiii, 38 sq. — Clarke, Success . 
Sac. Lit.; Lardner, Wwks, iv, 250. 

Faustinus, who lived towards the close of the 
sixth century after Christ, was appointed bishop of 
Dax, France, by authority of Gondowald, who, claim- 
ing to be a natural son of Clothaire I, aspired to the 
throne of Aquitaine, but was vanquished, betrayed, 
and slain. Faustinus was then deposed by a council 
held at Macon, which, curiously enough, also con- 
demned the bishops who had ordained him to provide 
for him in turn, and pay him 100 solidi annually.- — 
Gregory of Tours, Epitome historice Francorum ; Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Gen. (J. AY. M.) 

Faitstus, Dr. See Faust, Dr. 

Faustus Reiensis or Rhegiensis (of Ehe- 
gium, or Iteii, in Provence), so called from the diocese 
over which he presided, a pious and self-sacrificing 
prelate, although doctrinall} 7 he favored .Semi-I'ela- 
j gianism. He was born in Britain about the begin- 
ning of the fifth century, and became a monk of Le- 
rins. AATien Maximus was made hislwp of Rhegium, 
Faustus succeeded him in his abbacy of Lerins, and 
I succeeded him again as biHiop on his death, A.D. 454. 
He was present at the council held under Hilary at 
Pome, 462, and returned in 484 to his diocese, where 
he died about 485. lie wrote (1) De Gratia Dei et hu~ 
memee mentis libero arbitrio (On Grace and Free-will) 

| {Bib. Max. Pair. viii). In this treatise he opposes ab- 
solute predestination, but admits original sin and the 
necessity of grace to assist man’s nature, but denies 
that grace is confined in its saving influences to a few, 
or that original sin is entirely destructive of every 
good, so as to leave man “a mass of corruption.” He 
also shows that God’s foreknowledge does not affect 
the salvation or condemnation of any, and interprets 
the various texts of Scripture which refer to the mat- 
ter. (2) Professio Fielti (A Confession of Faith) {Bib. 
Max. Peitr . viii), directed against the doctrines of pre- 
destination and fate, addressed to Leontius, bhhop of 
Arles. This is a recapitulation of his treatise De Gra- 
tia. (3) Fpistola ad Luciclmn Presbyterum, against 
the Predestinarians of the monastery of Adrumetum. 
Lueitlus was convinced by this letter, and subscribed 
to the points condemned in it (Mansi, Condi, vii, 1007). 
This and other Fpistola \ to Ruricius and others, are in 
Cctnisu Led. Aniiq. i, 352 (Antw. 1725, fol.), and in the 
Bibliotb. Max. Pair, viii ; also several Sermons. J he 
treatise De Gratia is also in Migne, Patrol. Lai. 1 viii, 
775 sq., together with the FpistoUc and Sermones. An- 
gelo Mai, in his Spicilegium Romanum , gives three dis- 
courses of Faustus never before printed. Xeander 
gives the following judicious statement of the doc- 
trines of Faustus: “Although Faustus adopted the 
Semi-Pelagian mode of exposition with regard to the 
relation of the free-will to grace, yet he unfolded this 
scheme in a way peculiar to himself. If he did not 
express himself so distinctly as to satisfy the acute 
and clear-headed theologian, yet we see presented in 
him, in a beautiful manner, such a harmonious ten- 
dency of Christian feeling, keeping aloof from all par- 
tial and exaggerated views, as prevented him from 
giving undue prominence either to the work of re- 
j demption, so as to infringe on that of the creation, or 
to the work of creation, so as to infringe on that cf the 
redemption. ‘As the same Being,’ says he, ‘is both 
Creator and Redeemer, so one and the same Being is 
to be adored both in the work of creation and of re- 
demption.’ Among the attributes which, as express- 
ing the image of God, could not he destroyed in human 
nature, he reckons pre-eminently the free-will. But 
even before the fall the free-will was insufficient with- 
> out the aid of grace, and still less can it at present, 


FAUSTUS REIEXSIS 


509 


FAUSTUS 


since sin lias entered, suffice by its own strength for 
the attainment of salvation. It has now lost its orig- 
inal power, yet it is not in itself destroyed ; it is not 
altogether shut out from the divine gifts, but only it 
must strive once more to obtain them by intense ef- 
forts and the divine assistance. Like the author of 
the work De vocations gentium , he makes a distinction 
between general grace ( < gratia generalis ), a term by 
which he designates the religioso-moral capability 
which God has furnished to man’s nature, and which, 
too, has not been wholly supplanted by sin, as well as 
the universal inward revelation of God by means of 
this universal religioso-moral sense ; between general 
grace so understood, and special grace, by which he 
means all that "was first bestowed on mankind through 
Christianity. But the relation of these two kinds of 
grace to each other is defined by him quite otherwise 
than it is in the work above mentioned. Although, 
as a general thing, the grace of redemption, and in 
many cases, also, the calling, is antecedent to all human 
merit, still the operation of that special grace in man 
is dependent on the manner in which he has used that , 
general grace ; and in many cases the striving and 
seeking of the man which proceeds from the former, 
the self-active bent of the free-will, is antecedent to 
that which is imparted to the man by this special 
grace ; a thing which Faustus endeavors to show by 
examples similar to those which the Semi-Pelagians 
had been accustomed to adduce since the time of Cas- 
sian. He denominates the imperishable germ of good 
in human nature a spark of lire implanted within by j 
the divine hand, which, cherished by man, with the 
assistance of divine grace, would become operative. 
He recognises, therefore, a preparatory development 
of the religious and moral nature even among the hea- 
then, and controverts those who are unwilling to allow 
that, by a faithful use of that general grace, the hea- 
then might have attained to the true service of God. 
From this it might also be inferred that Faustus was 
an opponent of the doctrine which taught that all the 
heathen would be unconditionally condemned; and 
that it was his opinion that the worthy among them 
would still be led, after the present life, to faith in the 
Saviour, and thereby to salvation; but on these points 
he does not express himself more distinctly. There 
is much good sense in the remarks of Faustus where 
he compares the two extremes in the mode of appre- 
hending the relation of grace to free-will with the two 
extremes in the mode of apprehending the doctrine 
concerning the person of Christ. As in the doctrine 
concerning Christ’s person some gave undue promi- 
nence to the divine, others to the human element, and, 
as the result of so doing, were led into errors which, 
on opposite sides, injured the doctrine of redemption, 
so he says it was also with the doctrine concerning 
human nature. Faustus deserves notice also on ac- 
count of his dispute concerning the corporeality of 
the soul. He affirmed, as others before him had al- 
ready done (e. g. Hilary of Poitiers, On Matt . v, 8, and 
even Didynnis, in his work De Trinitate, bk. ii, ch. 4: 
\)i dyysXoi Tn'tvfiaTa, KaSb ttqoq ygdg acrw/taroc, 
oibftara hrovpdvta cut rb ottciowc d7TiX Elv tov die - 
t’kttov Trvtvgarog)^ that God alone is a pure spirit ; in 
the essential nature of finitude is grounded limitation 
as by time (a beginning of existence), so also by 
space; and hence all creatures are corporeal beings, 
the higher spirits as well as souls. He was led by his 
controversies with the Arians of the German tribes, 
who were then spreading themselves in these coun- 
tries, to unfold these views still farther; for he sup- 
posed he could demonstrate that if equality of essence 
with the Father was not ascribed to the Logos, it 
would be necessary to regard him as a corporeal being. 
He found an opponent who surpassed him in philo- 
sophical spirit in the presbyter Claudianus Mamertus 
of Vienna, a man on whom the speculative spirit of 
Augustine had exerted a great influence. He w’rote 


against Faustus liis work De statu animat' (Neander, 
Church History , Torrey, ii, 645). — Clarke, Succession 
of Sac. Lit. ii, 255; Neander, History of Dogmas , By- 
land, ii, 383; Mosheim, Ch. Ilist. cent, v, pt. ii, ch. v, 
§ 26, n. 55; Ceillier, Auteurs Sucre s (Paris, 1861), x, 
420-436. See Semi-Pelagians ; jMassiliaxs. 

Faustus, Socinus. See Socixus. 

Faustus, St. (</’ Agaune), was born about A.D. 
460, but the date of his death is unknown. He be- 
came a monk in the convent of Agaune, in Valois, and 
in 505 went to Paris with Severinus, his abbot, who 
was called thither by Clovis I to employ his medical 
skill in treating him for a chronic fever. On his re- 
turn journey Severinus died, and Faustus, who had 
remained in France, was commissioned by Childebert 
to write his life. r l his work is commendable for its 
simplicity, exactness, and scant mention of miracles 
as wrought by its subject, in an age whose literature 
is replete with such marvels. The best edition is that 
by Mabillon in the Acta Sanctorum Ord. Suncti Bene - 
died (Paris, 1668-1710, 9 vols. fol. ; reprinted at Ven- 
ice, 1733, 9 vols. fob). The Acta Sanctorum assigns 
the 11th of February to St. Faustus d’ Agaune. — lloe- 
fer, Nouv. Biog. Gener. xvii, 202. (J. W. 51.) 

Faustus, St. ( de Glaifeuii '). was one of the Bene- 
dictine monks who came with St. 51 a urus to France, 
A.D. 543, and assisted in founding the lirst monastery 
of his order in that country at Glanfeuil (Glannafo- 
lium), in Anjou. In 585, after the death of 5Iaurus, 
lie returned to Italy, and became an inmate of the 
monastery of Lateran at Borne, where, at the instance 
of his brother monks, he wrote a life of St. 5Iaurus, 
and presented it to pope Boniface IV, who approved it 
about 607. Faustus died some time after this (on a 
15th of February, according to the Bollandists), and 
was buried in the monastery of Lateran. His life of 
St. 5Iaurns reflects the spirit of the age, a credulous 
faith in the marvellous, and abounds in uninteresting 
and prolix details. Surius ( Vitce Sanctorum , etc.), Dn 
Breul (Supple m. A?diq. etc.), and Mabillon (Acta Sanct. 
Ord. Sailed Benedict i) have edited it. — Hoefer, Xouv. 
Blog. Generate , xvii, 202-3. (J. XV. 51.) 

Faustus, the 5Iaxicii.eax, a prominent bishop 
of the 5Ianicha?ans, was a native of Mileve, in Nu- 
mulia. Our knowledge of him is almost exclusively 
derived from the writings of Augustine. When be- 
ginning to doubt the truth of the 51anichrean doctrines 
which he had adopted during his stay at Carthage, 
Augustine was referred hv his 5Ianiehajan teachers 
whom he consulted, and who were unable to solve his 
doubts, to Faustus, as the ablest man of the sect. Au- 
I gustine did not, however, find in Faustus what he had 
i expected ; his knowledge was by no means so exten- 
| sive and so profound as the 5Ianieha3ans generally be- 
lieved. Of Latin literature he had only rend some 
| orations of Cicero, a part of Seneca’s works, a few po- 
ets, and the Latin works of 51anicha?an authors. Tie 
I confessed an entire ignorance of natural sciences. He 
| was, however, possessed of a great readiness of speech 
; and dexterity in argument. Faustus subsequently 
wrote a work against the doctrines of the Christian 
Church and in defence of the 5Ianiehaeans, in which 
the objections of his sect to the Scriptures, and in par- 
ticular to the Old Testament, are presented with some 
keenness and wit. Augustine, induced by his friends, 
wrote against Faustus Ins work Contra Fuustum Mani- 
ch'cum Libri xxxiii (compiled about 400; sent to Je- 
rome 401), in which nearly the whole of the work of 
Faustus is quoted. Augustine l elates of him that lie 
led a life of luxurious ease, regarded himself as the 
Incarnate Wisdom, was for a time exiled for his 5Ian 
iehoean opinions to an island, but subsequently released. 
The work of Augustine against Faustus is in the 8th 
volume of his works in the 51aurine and 5Iigne edi- 
tions. See Augcstixe , 5Ianicii.eaxs. — Herzog, 


FEAR OF GOD 


FAVOR 510 


Real-Encyklog. iv, 342; AVetzer u.AVelte, Kirchen-Lex. 
iii, 927. (A. J.S.) 

Favor. See Grace. 

Favre. See Faber. 

Fawcett, Benjamin, an English dissenting min- 
ister, was born at Sleaford, Lincolnshire, in 1715, and 
died in 1780. lie was a pupil of Dr. Doddridge at 
Northampton, and preached first at Taunton, and then 
at Kidderminster, where he was pastor of a congrega- 
tion of Dissenters for 85 years. He was a strict econ- 
omist of time, and attributed his uninterrupted good 
health to his temperate mode of life and the habit of 
earlv rising. Ilis works are, Sermons (1750-80), an 
abridgment of Baxter's Saints' Everlasting Rest , and 
Religious Melancholy (1780, Svo). — Bose, Xetv Gen. Biog. 
Did. : Allibone, Diet, of Authors. 

Fawcett, John, D.D., an eminent Baptist min- 
ister, was born in Yorkshire Jan. 0, 1739, joined a Bap- 
tist church in 1758, and was ordained minister at 
AVainsgate in 1704. Here he opened an academy, at 
which many ministers were educated, among them 
AVard of Serampore. He was a self-taught, but well- 
informed man ; in theology he was a moderate Calvin- 
ist. lie died July 25, 1**19. lie published The Sick 
Alan's Friend (1774) : — Hymns (Leeds, 1781, 12mo): — 
Essay on Anger (Leeds, 1787. 12mo): — Devotional Fam- 
ily Bible (1807-11, 2 vols. 4to). — Jones, Christian Bi- 
ography , s. v. ; Jamieson, Cyclop. <f Biography, p. 194. 

Fawcett, Joseph, minister of an Independent 
church at AYalthamstow, died 1*04. He was a very 
popular preacher, and published Sermons delivered at 
the Old Jewry (Loud. 1795, 2 vols. Svo). 

Fawkes, Guy “ (properly Gmno\ the head of the 
conspiracy known bv the name of the Gun powder Plot, 
was born of a Protestant family in A'orkshire in the 
year 1570. He became a Boimn Catholic at an earl}’ 
age, and served in the Spanish army in the Nether- 
lands. Inspired with fanatical zeal for his new re- 
ligion, on his return to England he entered into a plot 
with several Catholic gentlemen for blowing up the 
king, his ministers, and the members of both houses 
at the opening of Parliament, November 5, 1605. Guy 
Fawkes was taken with the burning match in his hand, 
tried, and, after being put to the torture, was publicly 
executed January 81. 1606. In remembrance of this 
event, in most English towns, but particularly in Lon- 
don, a grotesque figure, stuffed with straw, is carried 
about the streets on the 5th of November, and finally 
committed to the flames. A political and religious 
signification was again imparted to this custom by 
what was called ‘the papal aggression’ in the year 
1850, when the figure of cardinal Wiseman (q. v.) was 
substituted for that of Guy Fawkes.” — Chambers, En- 
cyclopedia , s. v. See Gunpowder Plot. 

Fayciit, Pierre, a priest of the French Oratory, 
was horn at Biom, in the Auvergne, in the first half 
of the 17th century. He was in 1671 excluded from 
the Oratory for having published, in spite of the pro- 
hibition of his superiors, from the Cartesian point of 
view, a work On the Unman Mind (De Alnite Humana). 
AVhile pope Innocent XI was quarrelling with the 
French government, Favdit, in a sermon on St. Poly- 
earp, preached against the pope, whose conduct he 
compared with that of pope A T ictor toward the Asiatic 
bishops. The view r expressed in these sermons he re- 
futed himself in another sermon published at Liege; 
but in 1687 be again published at Alaestrieht an ex- 
tract from bis first sermon, with proofs for the facts 
quoted in it. In consequence of an Essay on the Trin- 
ity , in which he seemed to favor Tritheism, he was im- 
prisoned in 1690 at 8t. Lazarus. Subsequently be was 
ordered to withdraw to his native city, where he con- 
tinued to compile quarrelsome works, attacking with 
ridiculous arguments some of the best works of bis 
age, such as Fenelon’s Tclemaque and Tillemont’s Ale- 


moires Ecclesiastiqaes. He died in 1709. — Iloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Gener. xvi, 229. (A. J. S.) 

Fear of God. I. Old Testament. — There is no 
mention in the Scriptures of the sentiment of fear in 
the relations between man and God before the fall of 
Adam. After the transgression, Adam says, “ I heard 
thy voice in the garden, and 1 -was afraid ” (Gen. iii, 
10). Fear of God (rv:rp riX^'D stands thus in close 
connection with conscience, and with the fact of actu- 
al or possible sin. AYe are probably justified in infer- 
ring from the narrative in Genesis that the sentiment 
of fear, in relation to God, is one of the consequences 
of Adam’s sin. Since the Fall, fear is a natural and 
proper feeling on the part of dependent man with re- 
gard to the infinite God whom he has offended. De- 
pendence alone, without the consciousness of sin, or 
of sinful tendencies and possibilities, would not engen- 
der fear. Tn sinful beings, however, fear is useful and 
necessary as a preventive and safeguard against trans- 
gression. As such it is enjoined in the O. T. especial- 
ly. (Compare Exod. i, 17 ; Dent, vi, 2 ; Prov. iii, 7 ; 
xiv, 2.) 8o in O. T. we find practical piety generally 
described as the fear of God : “The fear of the Lord is 
the beginning of knowledge” (Prov. i, 7) ; Job xxviii, 
8, “ Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom, and 
to depart from evil is understanding “ The fear of 
the Lord is clean, enduring forever” (Psa. xix. 9). 
Fear, thus coming to be almost, if not quite, synony- 
mous with piety, did not (under the old covenant) ex- 
clude filial and even cheerful trust in God, and delight 
in !iis law and in his worship ; the Psalms abound in 
illustrations of this. Under this covenant, too, the law 
of love prevailed (Deut. vi, 5, “ And thou shalt love the 
Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy 
soul, and v\itli all thy might”). The promise of a new 
covenant, also, added the grace of hoq)e to the experi- 
ence of O. T. believers (Jer. xxxi, 31-84). But a fear 
which is conjoined with love and hope is not a slavish 
f~ar, but rather filial fear, veneration (compare Deut. 
xxxii, 6; llotea xi, 1; Isa. i, 2; lxiii, 16; lxiv, 8). 
Nevertheless, the sense of the filial relation to God 
through Christ, such as appears in the N. T., was want- 
ing in the old covenant, and fear was, perhaps, under 
that covenant, the pre\ ailing element in the conscious- 
ness of believers, so far as their relation to God was 
concerned. 

II. In the sphere of the N. T., the fear of Gcd, in the 
sense of slavish or untrusting dread, is completely dis- 
pelled. True, in the economy of solvation through 
Christ fear finds a useful place as a preventive of neg- 
ligence and carelessness in religion, and as an induce- 
ment to penitence (2 Cor. v, 11 ; vii, 1; Phil, ii, 12; 
Eph. v, 21 ; lleb. xii, 28, 29), and is enforced in this 
sense by Christ himself (Alatt. x, 28). But as Chris- 
tian experience deepens, and the soul is consecrated to 
God, the sense of fear vanishes, and love takes its 
place (Bom. viii, 15 ; 2 Tim. i, 7 ; 1 John iv, 18). On 
the other hand, where there is nothing more than the 
form of Christian life, without its inward power, the 
old Jewish and even pagan fear springs up. So the 
Bomish Church does not admit a free and direct ap- 
proach to God, hut demands the intercession of saints, 
etc., and makes of the sacrament of the Lord’s Slipper, 
in which Christians are lovingly to surround his table, 
a tremendous and fearful mystery. In Protestant the- 
ology, on the contrary, the fear to approach God is 
considered as a consequence of the Fall, and fiee ac- 
cess to him is held to be an essential element of true 
Christian life. Edwards, in his Treatise on R< ligions 
Affections , remarks as follows on t lie relations of fear 
and sin : “ For so hath God contrived and constituted 
things, in his dispensations towards his own people, 
that when their love decays, and the exercises of it 
fail or beeome weak, fear should arise; for then the}’’ 
need it to restrain them from sin, and to excite them 
to care for the good of their souls, and so to stir them 


FEAST 


511 


FEAST 


up to watchfulness and diligence in religion ; but God 
hath so ordered that, when love rises and is in vigor- 
ous exercise, then fear should vanish and be driven 
away; for then they need it not, having a higher and 
more excellent principle in exercise to restrain them 
from sin, and stir them up to their duty. There are 
no other principles which human nature is under the 
influence of that will ever make men conscientious 
but one of these two, fear or love; and therefore, if 
one of these should not prevail as the other decays, 
God’s people, when fallen into dead and carnal frames, 
when love is asleep, would be lamentably exposed in- 
deed ; and therefore God has wisely ordained that 
these two opposite principles of love and fear should 
rise and fall like the two opposite scales of a balance; 
when one rises, the other sinks. Love is the spirit of 
adoption, or the childlike principle; if that slumbers, 
men fall under fear, which is the spirit of bondage, or 
the servile principle ; and so on the contrary. And if 
it be so that love, or the spirit of adoption, be carried 
to a great height, it quite drives away all fear, and 
gives full assurance; agreeable to that of the apostle, 
1 John iv, 18, “There is no fear in love, but perfect 
love casts out fear.” These two opposite principles of 
lust and holy love bring hope and fear into the hearts 
of God’s children in proportion as they prevail, that 
is, when left to their own natural influence, without 
something adventitious or accidental intervening, as 
the distemper of melancholy, doctrinal ignorance, prej- 
udices of education, wrong instruction, false princi- 
ples, peculiar temptations, etc. Fear is cast out by 
the Spirit of God no other wa} r than by the prevailing 
of love: nor is it ever maintained by his Spirit but 
when love is asleep” (Edwards, IFor&s, N. Y. edit., iii, 
56). See, on the different dispensations of grace, 
Fletcher, ll’or&s, iii, 175 sq ; S to well, On Nehemiah , 
Iect. i ; Herzog, Real-EncyUopadie , v, 280, from which 
part of this article is a modified translation. 

Feast (properly l-iriw’O, mishteh ' , toy//, when a 
hospitable entertainment ; and SH, chug, topr/;, when a 
religious festival ). To what an early date the prac- 
tices of hospitality are referable may be seen in Gen. 
xix, 3, where we find Lot inviting the two angels — 
“ Turn in, I pray you, into your servant’s house and 
tarry all night, and wash your feet; and he pressed 
upon them greatly, and they entered into his house; 
and he made them a feast;” which was obviously of 
an impromptu nature, since it is added, “and did bake 
unleavened bread, and they did eat” (Judg. vi, 19). It 
was usual not only thus to receive persons with choice 
viands, but also to dismiss them in a similar manner ; 
accordingly Laban, when he had overtaken the fleeing 
Jacob, complains (Gen. xxxi, 27), “ Wherefore didst 
thou steal away from me and didst not tell me, that I 
might have sent thee away with mirth, and with songs, 
and with tabret, and with harp ?” See also 2 Sam. 
iii, 20; 2 Kings vi, 23; Job viii, 20; 1 Macc. xvi, 15. 
This practice explains the reason why the prodigal, 
on his return, was welcomed by a feast (Luke xv, 23). 
Occasions of domestic joy were hailed with feasting ; 
thus, in Gen. xxi, 8, Abraham “made a great feast 
the same day that Isaac was weaned.” Birthdays 
were thus celebrated (Gen. xl, 20) : “ Pharaoh, on his 
birthday, made a feast unto all his servants” (Job i, 
4; Matt, xiv, G; compare Herod, i, 133). Marriage- 
feasts were also common. Samson (Judg. xiv, 10) on 
such an occasion “made a feast,” and it is added, 
“ for so used the young men to do.” So Laban, when 
he gave his daughter Leah to Jacob (Gen. xxix, 22), 
“gathered together all the men of the place, and made 
a feast.” These festive occasions seem originally to 
have answered the important purpose of serving as 
evidence and attestation of the events which they cel- 
ebrated, on which account relatives and neighbors 
were invited to be present (Until iv, 10; John ii, 1). 
Those processes in rural occupations by which the di- 


vine bounties are gathered into the hands oi man have 
in all ages been made seasons of festivity; according- 
ly, in 2 Sara, xiii, 23, Absalom invites all the king’s 
sons, and even David himself, to a sheep-shearing 
feast, on which occasion the guests became “ merry 
with wine” (1 Sam. xxv, 2 sq.). The vintage was 
also celebrated with festive eating and drinking (Judg. 
ix, 27). Feasting at funerals existed among the 
Jews (2 Sam. iii, 33). In Jer. xvi, 7, among other 
funeral customs, mention is made of “the cup of con- 
solation, to drink for their father or their mother,” 
which brings to mind the indulgence in spirituous 
liquors to which our ancestors were given at inter- 
ments, and which has not yet entirely disappeared in 
Lancashire, nor probably in Ireland (Carleton’s Irish 
Peasantry ; England in the Nineteenth Century , vol. ii). 
To what an extent expense was sometimes carried on 
these occasions may be learned from Josephus (liar, 
iv, 1, 1), who, having remarked that Archelaus 
“ mourned for his father seven days, and had given a 
very expensive funeral feast to the multitude,” states, 
“which custom is the occasion of poverty to many of 
the Jews;” adding, “because they are forced to feast 
the multitude ; for if any one omits it he is not esteem- 
ed a holy person.” See Entertainment. 

As among heathen nations, so also among the He- 
brews. feasting made a part of the observances which 
took place on occasion of animal sacrifices. In Dent, 
xii, 6, 7, after the Israelites are enjoined to bring to 
the place chosen of God their burnt offerings, tithes, 
heave offerings, vows, free-will offerings, and the first- 
lings of their herds and flocks, they are told, “There 
shall ye eat before the Lord your God, and ye shall 
rejoice in all ye put your hand unto, ye and your 
households, wherein the Lord thy God hath blessed 
thee” (1 Sam. ix, 19 ; xvi, 3, 5 ; 2 Sam. vi, 19). These 
sacrificial meals were enjoyed in connection with peace 
offerings, whether eucharistic or votive. The kidneys, 
and all the inward fat, and the tail of the lamb, were 
burnt with the daily sacrifice; the breast and right 
shoulder fell to the priest, and the rest was to be eaten 
by the offerer and his friends, on the same day if the 
offering were eucharistic, on that and the next day if it 
were votive (Lev. iii, 1-17 ; vii, 11-21 ; 29-36 ; xix, 5-* 
8; xx, 29, 30). To the feast at the second tithe of the 
produce of the land, which was to be made every year, 
and eaten at the annual festivals before Jehovah, not 
only friends, but strangers, widows, orphans, and Le- 
vites were to be invited, as well as the slaves. Tf the 
tabernacle was so distant as to make it inconvenient 
to carry thither the tithe, it was to be turned into 
money, which was to be spent in providing feasts at 
the place at which the festivals were held (Dent, xiv, 
22-27; xii, 14; Tobit i. 6). Charitable entertainments 
were also provided, at the end of three years, from the 
tithe of the increase. The Levite, the stranger, the 
fatherless, and the widow were to be present (Dent, 
xii, 17-19 ; xiv, 28, 29; xxvi, 12-15). At the feast of 
Pentecost the command is very express (Dent, xvi, 
11), “ Thou shalt rejoice before the Lord thy God, thou, 
and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy man-servant, 
and thy maid-servant, and the Levite that is within 
thy gates, and the stranger, and the fatherless, and 
the widow that are among you.” Accordingly, Tobit 
(ii, 1, 2) affirms, “ Now when I was come home again, 
in the feast of Pentecost, when l saw abundance of 
meat, I said to my son, go and bring what poor man 
soever thou shalt find out of our brethren, who is mind- 
ful of the Lord.” The Israelites were forbidden to 
partake of food offered in sacrifice to idols (Exod. 
xxxiv, 15), lest they should be thereby enticed into 
idolatry, or appear to give a sanction to idolatrous 
observances (1 Cor. x, 28). — Kitto, s. v. See Alis- 

GEMA. 

For further particulars as to social entertainments, 
see Banquet; and as to sacred occasions, see Festi- 
val. 


FEASTS 


512 


FEASTS 


Feast.?, or Festivals, in the Christian Church, 
certain dy vs set apart for the more particular remem- 
brance of the prominent transactions connected with 
our Lord in his redemption of mankind, and also for 
the commemoration of the labors and sufferings of his 
apostles. 

1. History and Theory of their Observance. — (1.) “Some 
Protestants object to the observance of these feasts on 
the ground that such observance is contrary to the in- 
junction of the apostle Paul (Col. ii, 10), forgetting 
that in this passage the apostle alludes exclusively to 
Jewish feasts; others object to all such festivals as 
being popish, forgetting that they have been observed 
from the earliest ages of the Church. If a Church 
lias power to ordain rites and ceremonies which are 
not contrary to Scripture, she has the power to set 
apart certain days in commemoration of the most im- 
portant events and persons connected with the first 
promulgation of the Gospel to sinners” (Eden). (2.) 
Festival days were hallowed in the Church long be- 
fore the rise of the papacy. At first the religious fes- 
tivals of the Church were observed voluntarily, and 
never by formal obligation; but in the 4th century 
various decrees of councils were passed, enjoining the 
observance of them as a duty. The number of festi- 
vals was originally small, consisting, besides Sunday, 
of Easter, Pentecost, and Ascension, and to these the 
Epiphany and Christmas were added at a later period. 
“The end designed by the observance of these festi- 
vals was to call to mind the benefits of the Christian 
dispensation, to excite Christians to holy living, to of- 
fer thanks for providential mercies, and to aid in the 
cultivation of Christian graces. The discourses which 
were delivered on these occasions always referred to 
the most important topics of the Christian religion. 
Even the Lord’s day, according to Eusebius, was said 
to have had a threefold origin, emblematic of the sa- 
cred Trinity — the creation of the world, the resurrec- 
tion of Christ, and the effusion of the Holy Spirit” 
(Bingham, bk. xx, eh. iv; Ncandcr, Church History , i, 
301). “The primitive Church were not careful to 
prescribe a specific time or place for the celebration 
of their religious festivals. The apostles and their 
immediate successors proceeded on the principle that 
these should be observed at stated times, which might 
still be varied as circumstances should direct. These 
seasons were regarded as saend, not for any peculiar 
sanctity belonging to the day or hour in which they 
were solemnized, in itself considered, but merely as 
being set apart from a common to a religious use. 
Home, however, have maintained that these festive 
days should be observed as holy time ” (Coleman, Chris- 
tian Antiquities, eh. xxi). After the 4th century fes- 
tivals were so greatly multiplied in the Church that 
later times bear no resemblance in this respect to the 
first ages. “Many causes contiibuted to this multi- 
plication of festivals, among which may be mentioned 
as the chief, 1. The commemorations of martyrs and 
confessors already introduced, which led to the estab- 
lishment of numerous festivals in honor of saints, and 
to the superstitious use of relics, invocations, pilgrim- 
ages, and the like ; 2. The errors of some sects re- 
specting existing festivals, to correct which the Cath- 
olic Church introduced new observances ; 3. Several 
laws of Constantine relating to the celebration of Eas- 
ter, the religious observance of Friday in every week, 
and the feasts of martyrs ; 4. The celebration of Christ- 
mas, which was introduced in the 4tli century, led the 
way to the establishment of other festivals in connec- 
tion with itself, such as those in honor of the Virgin 
Mary. 5. The propensity of many Christians to par- 
take in the celebration of heathen festivals and in Jew- 
i. h observances had become a serious evil in the Church 
during the third and fourth^ centuries. In Homilies 
and decrees of councils of that date we 'find earnest 
protests against the amalgamation of Christian worship 
with Jewish and heathen rites, and a description of 


the dangers which threatened Christianity from this 
practice, which had begun to gain ground (see Chry- 
sostom, Horn. 1, G, 52, and elsewhere ; Cone. Load. c. 
29, 37, 39 ; Cone. J/llber. c. 49, 50). This perverse at- 
tachment to forms and ceremonies altogether foreign 
to the Christian religion appears to have been a lead- 
ing cause of tbe multiplication of festivals within the 
Church. The original simplicity of Christian worship 
had become unsatisfactory to the multitude, and it was 
deemed necessary to give splendor and external at- 
traction to the religion of the Gospel by the establish- 
ment of new festivals, or by converting Jewish and 
heathen ceremonies into Christian solemnities. It was 
thought that this might be done with safety, inasmuch 
as there was no longer occasion to fear that the people 
would return to Judaism or heathenism. And accord- 
ingly, in the time of Gregory the Great, many observ- 
ances were adopted into the course of Christian wor- 
ship from the Jewish and heathen ritual, without fear 
of those evil consequences which were formerly appre- 
hended from such a combination. See Gregor. M. R< g. 
ix, Ep. 71 ; Theodoret, De Mart, i, viii” (Biddle, Chris- 
tian Antiquities , p. G48). (3.) Those who vindicate the 
observance of festivals in the Church maintain that 
“ this sanctification or setting apart of festival days is 
a token of that thankfulness, and a part of that public 
honor which we owe to God for his admirable benefits ; 
and these days or feasts set apart are of excellent use, 
being, as Hooker observes, the, 1. Splendor and out- 
ward dignity of our religion ; 2. Forcible witnesses of 
ancient truth ; 3. Provocations to the exercise of all 
piety; 4. Shadows of our endless felicity in heaven; 
5. Records teaching the facts of Christianity in the 
most obvious way. The Church begins her ecclesi- 
astical year with the Sundays in Advent, to remind us 
of the coming of Christ in the flesh. After these, we 
are brought to contemplate the mystery of the incar- 
nation ; and so, step by step, we follow the Church 
through all the events of our Saviour’s pilgrimage to 
his ascension into heaven. In all this the grand ob- 
ject is to keep Christ perpetually before us, to make 
him and his doctrine the chief object in all our varied 
services. Every Sunday lias its peculiar character, 
and has reference to some act or scene in the life of 
our Lord, or the redemption achieved by him, or the 
mystery of mercy carried on by the blessed Trinity. 
Thus every year brings the whole Gospel history to 
view ; and it will he found, as a general rule, that the 
appointed portions of Scripture in each day’s service 
arc mutually illustrative ; the New Testament casting 
light on the Old, prophecy being admirably brought 
in contact with its accomplishment, so that no plan, 
could be devised for a more profitable course of Scrip- 
ture reading than that presented by the Church on her 
holy days” (Sparrow, Rationale oj the Common Prayer'). 

II. Number and Classes of Feasts .< — (1.) Besides the 
days observed by tbe whole Church as memorials of 
the acts of Christ’s life and death, other festivals were 
also introduced commemorative of the apostles and 
martyrs. Bingham states that these may he traced 
up to the 2d century (frig . Keel, xx, 7), and Mosheim 
agrees with him (cent, i, pt. ii, chap, iv, § 4). It is to 
he observed that while Christmas is celebrated as the 
birthday of Christ, the martyrs’ festivals were held on 
the days of their deaths — still, however, called birth- 
days (natales), as on these days they were transferred 
to endless life. On the number of these festivals in 
the early Church, and the modes in which they were 
observed, see Bingham (/. c. ; Neandcr, Ch. Hist, i, SCO 
sq.). 

(2.) The Roman Catholic Church has retained all the 
early festivals, with the later ones of the apostles and 
martyrs, and has added largely to the number. She 
retains the right to enact festal days, and to fix the 
mode of their observance. The following list embraces 
the feasts of the American calendar: 

Movable Feasts and Holydays. — Feast of the Holy 


FEASTS 


513 


FEASTS 


Name of Jesus; Septuagesima Sunday ; Ash Wednes- 
day ; Office of the Passion of our Lord ; Office of the 
Most Sacred Crown ; Office of the Spear and Nails ; Of- 
fice of the Five Wounds ; Office of the Most Precious 
Blood ; Sorrows of the B. V. Mary ; Easter Day ; Pat- 
ronage of St. Joseph ; Ascension of our Lord ; Whit 
Sunday; Trinity Sunday; Corpus Christi ; Feast of 
the Sacred Heart of Jesus ; Feast of the Most Precious 
Blood of our Lord ; Feast of the Holy Name of Mary ; 
Feast of the Seven Dolors of B. Y. M. ; Feast of the 
Holy Rosary ; Feast of the Maternity of B. V. M. ; 
Feast of the Patronage of B. Y. M. ; Sundays after 
Pentecost ; First Sunday of Advent. 

Immovable Feasts and Saints' Dm/s. — Abdon and 
Sennen, MM., July 30; iEgidius, Ab., Sept. 1; Aga- 
tha, Y. M., Feb. 5; Agnes, Y. M., Jan. 21 ; Alexius, 
C., July 17 ; All Saints, Nov. 1 ; All Saints, Octave 
of, Nov. 8 ; All Souls, Nov. 2; Aloysius Gonzaga, C., 
June 21 ; Alphonsus Liguori, B.C., Aug. 2; Ambrose, 

B. C. D., Dec. 7 ; Anacletus, Pope, M., July 13 ; An- 
drew, Apostle, Nov. 30; Andrew Avellino, C., Nov. 
10; Andrew Corsini, B. C., Feb. 4; Anicetus, Pope, 
M.j April 17 ; Ann, Mother of B. V. M., July 26 ; An- 
selm, B. C. D., April 21 ; Anthony, Ab., Jan. 17 ; An- 
thony of Padua, C., June 13; Antoninus, B. C., May 
10; Apollinaris, B. M., July 23; Apollonia, Y.M.,Feb. 
9 ; Athanasius, B. C. D., May 2 ; Augustine, B. C. D., 
Aug. 28; Barnabas, Apostle, June 11; Bartholomew, 
Apostle, April 24 ; Basil, B. C. D., June 14 ; Benedict, 
Ab. C., Mar. 21 ; Bernard, Ab. D., Aug. 20 ; Bernardi- 
nus, C., May 20; Bibiana, Y. M., Dec. 2; Blase, B. 
M., Feb. 3; Bonaventure, B. C. D., July 14 ; Boniface, 
M., May 14 ; Bridget, Widow, Oct. 8 ; Bruno, C., Oct. 
6; Cajetan, C., Aug. 7; Callistus, Pope, M., Oct. 14; 
Camillus de Lellis, C., July 18 ; Canute, M., Jan. 19; 
Casimir, C., Mar. 4 ; Catharine, V. M., Nov. 25 ; Cath- 
arine of Sienna, Y., April 30 ; Cecilia, Y. M., Nov. 22 ; 
Chas. Borromeo, B. C., Nov. 4 ; Christinas Day, Dec. 
25 ; Chrysanthus and Daria, Oct. 25 ; Circumcision of 
our Lord, Jan. 1 ; Clare, Y., Aug. 12 ; Clement, Pope, 
M., Nov. 23; Cletus and Marcel. PP. MM., April 26; 
Cornelius and Cyprian, MM., Sept. 16; Cosmas and 
Damian, MM., Sept. 27; Cyprian and Justina, MM., 
Sept. 26; Cyriacus, etc. MM., Aug. 8; Damasus, Pope, 

C. , Dec, 11; Didacus, C., Nov. 13; Dionysius, etc. 
MM., Oct. 9; Dominic, C., Aug. 4; Dorothy, Y. M., 
Feb. 6; Edward, King, C., Oct. 13; Elizabeth, Wid- 
ow, July 8; Elizabeth of Hungary, Widow, Nov. 19; 
Epiphany of our Lord, Jan. 6; Epiphany, Octave of, 
Jan. 13; Eusebius, B. M., Dec. 16; Eustachius, etc. 
MM., Sept. 20; Evaristus, Pope, M., Oct. 26; Exalta- 
tion of the Holy Cross, Sept. 14 ; Fabian and Sebas- 
tian, MM., Jan. 20; Faustinus and Jovita, MM., Feb. 
15; Felix, P. M., Mar. 30; Felix of Yalois, C., Nov. 
20; Fidelis, M., April 24; Finding of the Holy Cross, 
May 3 ; Frances, Widow, Mar. 9 ; Francis of Assisium, 
C., Oct. 4 ; Francis, Stigmas of, Sept. 17 ; Francis Bor- 
gia, C., Oct. 10; Francis Caracciolo, C., June 4 ; Fran- 
cis of Paula, C., April 4 ; Francis of Sales, B. C., Jan. 
29; Francis Xavier, C., Dec. 3; Gabriel, Archangel, 
Mar. 18 ; George, M., April 23 ; Gertrude, Y., Nov. 15 ; 
Gregory the Great, P. C. D., Mar. 12 ; Gregory Nazi- 
anzen, B. C. D., May 9 ; Gregory Thaumaturgus, B. 
C., Nov. 17 ; Gregory VII, P. C., May 25; Guardian 
Angels, Oct. 2 ; Hedwigis, Widow, Oct. 17 ; Henry, 
Emperor, C., July 15 ; Hermenegild, M., April 13 ; Hi- 
larion, Ab., Oct. 21 ; Hilary, B. C., Jan. 14 ; Hyacinth, 
C., Aug. 16; Ignatius, B.M., Feb. 1 ; Ignatius of Loyo- 
la, C., July 31 ; Innocents, Holy, Dec. 28 ; Innocents, 
Holy, Octave of, Jan. 4 ; Irenams, B. M., June 28 ; Isi- 
dore, B. C. D., April 4 ; James, Apostle, July 25 ; Jane 
Frances de Chantal, Aug. 21; Januarius, etc. MM., 
Sept. 19; Jerome, C. D., Sept. 30; Jerome JEmilian, 
C., July 20; John, Apostle and Evangelist, Dec. 27; 
John, Octave of, Jan. 3; John before Lat. Gate, May 
6; John the Baptist, Beheading of, Aug. 29 ; John the 
Baptist, Nativity of, June 24; John the Baptist, Oc- 

III.— K k 


tave of, July 1 ; John Cantius, C., Oct. 20 ; John Chry« 
sostom, B. C. D., Jan. 27 ; John of the Cross, C., Nov. 
24; John of God, C., Mar. 8; John Lateran, Dedica* 
tion of, Nov. 9; John A. S. Facundo, C., June 12; John 
Francis Regis, C., June 18; John of Matha, C., Feb. 8 ; 
John Gualbert, A. C., July 12; John Nepomucen, M., 
May 22; John and Paul, MM., June 26; Joseph, C., 
Spouse of B. Y. INI., Mar. 19 ; Joseph Calasanctius, C., 
Aug. 27 ; Joseph Cupertino, C., Sept. 18; Juliana Fal- 
conieri, V., June 19 ; Lady of Mercy, Our Blessed, Sept. 
24 ; Lady ad Nives, Our, Aug. 5 ; Laurence, M., Aug. 
10; Laurence, Octave of, Aug. 17; Laurence Justin- 
ian, B. C., Sept. 5; Leo the Great, P. C. D., April 11 ; 
Leo, Pope, C., July 7 ; Lewis, King, C., Aug. 25; Li- 
nus, Pope, M., Sept. 23; Lucy, V. M., Dec. 13; Luke, 
Evangelist, Oct. 18; Magdalen, Mary, Pen, July 22; 
Magdalen of Pazzi, V.,SIay 27; Marcellinus, etc. SIM., 
June 2 ; Marcellus, P. SI., Jan. 16 ; Slarcus, etc. SISI., 
June 18; Slargaret, Queen, Widow, June 10; Slark, 
Evangelist, April 25 ; Slark, Pope, C., Oct. 7 ; Martha, 
V., July 29; Slartin, B. C., Nov. 11; Slartin, Pope, 

51., Nov. 12 ; Slartina, Y. SI., Jan. 30 ; Slartyrs, Forty, 
Slar. 10; Slary, B. X. of Sit. Carmel, July 16; Slary, 

B. V., Annunciation of, Slar. 25 ; Slary, B. V., As- 
sumption of, Aug. 15 ; Mary, B. V., Octave of, Aug. 
22 ; Slary, B. Y ., Conception of, Dec. 8 ; Slary, B. V., 
Octave of, Dec. 15; Srarv, B. V., Espousals of, Jan. 
23; Slary, B. V., Expected Deliverance of, Dec. 18; 
Slary, B. V., Help of Christ, Slay 24; Slary, B. V., 
Nativity of, Sept. 8 ; Slary, B. V., Octave of, Sept. 15 ; 
Slary, B. Y ., Presentation of, Nov. 21 ; Slary, B. V., 
Purification of, Feb. 2 ; Slary, B. V., Visitation of, July 
2 ; Slathias, Apostle, Feb. 24 ; Slattliias, Apostle, leap 
year, Feb. 25 ; Matthew, Apostle and Evangelist, Sept. 
21 ; Slichael, Archangel, Dedication of the Church of, 
Sept. 29 ; Slichael, Apparition ofJ Slay 8 ; Slonica, V» T id- 
ow, Slay 4 ; Nazarius, etc. SISI., July 28 ; Nercus, etc. 

5151., Slay 12 ; Nicholas of Tolent., C., Sept. 10 ; Nich- 
olas of Slyra, B. C., Dec. 6; Norbert, B. C., June 6; 
Pantaleon, SI., Julj r 27 ; Paschal Baylon, C., Slay 17 ; 
Patrick, B. C., Slar. 17 ; Paul, Conversion of, Jan. 25 ; 
Paul, Commemoration of, June 30 ; Paul, First Hermit, 

C. , Jan. 15 ; Paulinus, B. C., J une 22 ; Peter's Chains, 
Aug. 1; Peter’s Chair at Antioch, Feb. 22; Peter's 
Chair at Rome, Jan. 18 ; Peter, Slartyr, April 29 ; Pe- 
ter of Alcantara, C., Oct. 19; Peter Celestinus, P. C., 
Slay 19 ; Peter Chrysologus, B. C. D., Dec. 4 ; Peter 
Damian, B. C. D., Feb. 23 ; Peter Nolasco, C., Jan. 31 ; 
Peter and Paul, Apostles, June 29; Peter and Paul, 
Octave of, July 6; Peter and Paul, Dedication of the 
Church of, Nov. 18; Philip Bcniti,C., Aug. 23; Philip 
Neri, C., Slay 26 ; Philip and James, Apostles, Slay 1 ; 
Pius Y, Pope, C., Slaj’ 5; Pius, Pope, SI., July 11; 
Placidus, etc. SISI., Oct. 5; Polycarp, B. SI., Jan. 26; 
Praxedes, V., July 21; Primus and Felicianus, SISI., 
June 9 ; Raphael, Arch., Oct. 24 ; Raymund of Penna- 
fort, Jan. 29 ; Raymund of Nonnatus, C., Aug. 31 ; Re- 
migius, B. C., Oct. 1 ; Romuald, Ab., Feb. 7 ; Rose of 
Lima, V., Aug. 30; Sabbas, Ab., Dec. 5; Saviour’s 
Church, Dedication of the, Nov. 9; Scholastica, Y., Feb. 
10; Seven Brothers, SISI., July 10; Silvester, Pope, 
C., Dec. 21 ; Silverius, Pope, SI., June 20; Simeon, B. 

51., Feb. 18 ; Simon and Jude, Apostles, Oct. 28 ; Soter 
and Cains, PP. SISI., April 22 ; Stanislaus Kostka, C., 
Nov. 14 ; Stanislaus, B. SI., Slay 7 ; Stephen, Proto- 
Slartyr, Dec. 26 ; Stephen, Octave of, Jan. 2 ; Stephen, 
Finding of Relics of, Aug. 3 ; Stephen, Pope, SL, Aug. 
2; Stephen, King, C., Sept. 2; Theresa, V., Oct. 15; 
Thomas, Ap., Dec. 21 ; Thomas of Aquin, C. D., Slar. 
7 ; Thomas of Canterbury, B. SL, Dec. 29 ; Thomas of 
Villanova, B. C., Sept. 22; Tiburtius, etc. SISI., April 
14; Timothy, B. SL, Jan. 24; Transfiguration of our 
Lord, Aug. 6 ; Ubaldus, B. C., Slay 16 ; Valentine, SL, 
Feb. 14 ; Venantius, SL, Slay 18 ; Vincent of Paul, C., 
July 19‘, Vincent Fcrrier, C., April 5; Vincent and 
Anastasius, SISI., Jan. 22; Yitalis, SL, April 28; Vi- 
tus, Slodestus, etc. SISI., June 15; Wenceslaus, SL, 


FEAST OF ASSES 514 FEATHERS’ TAY. ASSOCIATION 


Sept. 28; William, Ab. C., June 25 ; Zephyrinus,Pope, ! 
M., Aug. 2G. 

(3.) The Church of England retains the following ; 
the historv will be found under the particular name 
of each festival. 

Movable Feasts and Holy Days. — Advent; Septua- 
gesima; Sexagesima; Quinquagesima ; Ash Wednes- 
day ; Quadragesima, and the four following Sundaj^s ; 
Palm Sunday; Maund} r Thursday ; Good Friday; Eas- 
ter Eve ( Sabbatum Magnum) ; Easter Day; Sundays 
after Easter ; Ascension Day ; Whit Sunday ; Trinity 
Sunday. 

Immovable Feasts and Holy Days. — Jan. 1, the Cir- 
cumcision of our Lord; Jan. G, the Epiphany; Jan. 
25, the Conversion of St. Paul; Feb. 2, the Presenta- 
tion of Christ in the Temple, or the Purification of the 
Virgin; Feb. 24, St. Matthias’s Day; March 25, the 
Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary ; April 25, 
St. Mark’s Day ; May 1, St. Philip and St. James’s 
Day; June 11, St. Barnabas the Apostle ; June 24, St. 
John the Baptist’s Day; June 29, St. Peter and St. 
Paul’s Day ; July 25, St. James the Apostle ; Aug. 24, 
St. Bartholomew the Apostle; Sept. 21, St. Matthew 
the Apostle ; Sept. 29, St. Michael and all Angels ; 
Oct. 18, St. Luke the Evangelist; Oct. 28, St. Simon 
and St. Jude, Apostles ; Nov. 1, All Saints’ Day ; Nov. 
30, St. Andrew’s Day ; Dec. 21, St. Thomas the Apos- 
tle ; Dec. 25, Nativity of our Lord ; Dec. 2G, St. Ste- 
phen’s Day; Dec. 27, St.John the Evangelist; Dec. 
28, the Innocents’ Day. 

See, besides the works already cited, Zyliegan, die 
alte und neue Festen alter Christl. Confessionen (Dantzic, 
1825, 8vo); Augusti, Christl . Archaologie , i, 4G9 sq. ; 
Coleman, Ancient Christianity exemplified, ch. xxvi ; 
Bingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. xx, ch. iv ; Butler, Feasts 
and Fasts of the Catholic Church (N. Y. 1856, 12mo) ; 
Nelson, Festivals and Fasts of the Church of England; 
Iiiddle, Christian Antiquities, bk. v, ch. i ; Barrow, Ser- 
mons (serm. 77) ; Bibliotheca Sacra , iv, G50 ; Neander, 
Planting and Training , i, 158 ; Lewis, Bible , Missal , 
and Breviary (Edinb. 1853), ch. i ; Schaff, Hist, of the 
Chiistian Church , i, 128, 372; Lamson, Church of the 
first three Centuries , p. 321 sq. ; Siegel, Christl.-Kirchl. 
Alterihumer , ii, 81, and references there. 

Feast of Asses, a ridiculous festival of the Roman 
Catholic Church, celebrated in Rouen and some other 
cities of France, to commemorate the flight into Egypt. 
It was not uniformly observed, but the following were 
generally among the ceremonies, especially at Beau- 
vais. A young woman with a child in her arms was 
made to ride on an ass. Followed by the bishop and 
clergy, she was conducted to the church, and a sermon 
was preached, in which the high qualities of the ani- 
mal that enabled the Virgin and child to escape from 
Ilerod were lauded. During the ceremony, a ludicrous 
composition, half Latin, half French, was sung with 
great vociferation, in praise of the ass, of which the 
last stanza may serve as a specimen : 

14 Amen dicas asine 
Jam satur de gramine 
Amen, amen itera 
Aspernarc vetera. 

llezval llezva! llezva! Hez! 

Hialx sire asnez, car allez, 
belle bonche ear chantez.” 

fn Ronen it was celebrated about Christmas ; in other 
places, as, for instance, at Beauvais, on the 14tb of 
June. Several popes, papal legates, and bishops en- 
deavored to suppress it, but it maintained itself until 
the 15th century, when Nicholas de Clemangis, by his 
work De noris celebritatibus non instituendis, and espe- 
cially the Council of Basle by a decree, caused the 
suppression of this and a number of similar festivals. — 
Ducange, s. v. Festum Asinorum ; Moreri, s. v. Fete ; 
Schrockh, Kirchen-Gcschichte , vol. xxviii ; Wetzer u. 
Welte, Kirchen-Lex . iv, 710. 

Feast of Charity, or Love. See Agaive; 
Love-feast. 


Feast of Fools, a festival celebrated during the 
Middle Ages in many countries of Europe, especially 
in France, with grotesque ceremonies. It was an imi- 
tation of the Saturnalia , and, like that festival, was 
celebrated in December. The chief celebration fell 
on New Year’s or Innocents’ Day; but the feast con- 
tinued from Christmas to the last Sunday of Epipha- 
ny. At first only the young boys of the choir and 
young sacristans played the principal parts in it, but 
afterwards all the inferior servants of the Church were 
engaged, the bishop and the superior clergymen, with 
the canons, forming the audience. The young people 
who played the chief parts chose from their own num- 
ber a bishop or archbishop of fools, as he was called, 
and consecrated him, in the principal church of the 
place, with many absurd ceremonies. This mock- 
bishop then took the seat usually occupied by the bish- 
op, and caused high mass to be said. During the per- 
formance, the others who took part in the play, dressed 
in masks and different disguises, engaged in indecent 
songs and dances, and practised all kinds of follies. 
It fell into disuse in the 15th century, but some of its 
features yet remain in the Carnival (q. v.). — Tilliot, 
Memoires pour servir a Vhistoire de la fete des foux (Lau- 
sanne, 1751); Schrockh, Kirckengeschichte, xxviii, 271 ; 
xxxii, 55 ; Siegel, Christl. - K i rchl. Alterihumer , iv, 115. 
See Boy-bishop. 

Feather. 1. nsT'J or in S3, notsalf (from 7HJ3, to 
fiy), a pinion or wing-feather, Ezek. xvii, 3, 7 (falsely 
“ostrich” in Job xxxix, 13; but it means the excre- 
ment of the crop in Lev. i, 1G). 2. ebrah' (fern, 

of n31X, Isa. xl, 21, which has the same meaning), 
likewise a pinion or wing-feather, Psa. lxviii, 13 ; xci, 
4 (inexactly “wing,” Dent. xxxii, 11 ; Job xxxix, 
13). 3. Incorrectly for chasidah', Job xxxix, 

13, the stork , as elsewhere rendered. See Wing. 

Feathering, or Foliation, an arrangement of 
small arcs, separated by projecting points or cusps, to 
ornament the inside of larger arches, or triangular or 
circular openings in Gothic architecture. Feathering 
was first introduced at the close of the early English 
style, and continued till the supplanting of the Gothic 
by the Renaissance architecture. When smaller arcs 
are added to ornament these small arcs, the feathering 
is said to be double. It is also sometimes made triple 
in the latest decadence of the Gothic architecture. — 
Parker, Glossary of Architecture. 

Feathers’ Tavern Association, a society of 
Englishmen, clergymen and la3 r men, formed to secure 
a reformation of the English liturgy in the latter part 
of the 18th century. The name is derived from the 
“Feathers’ Tavern,” in London, where their meetings 
were held. The number of clergymen in the body 
was nearly 300. Gilbert Wakefield (q. v.) was a lead- 
ing spirit in the association. “They signed a petition 
requesting the excision of the damnatory clauses in 
the Athanasian Creed, and the relief of their con- 
sciences in the matter of subscription ; and with this, 
no doubt, many of them would have been satisfied. 
But the laity went much further. In the war of pam- 
phlets which this affair created, some of them spoke 
of the Reformation, the doctrine of the Trinity, and 
the Thirty-nine Articles with ridicule. When the 
matter was debated in the House of Commons, the 
doctrines of the Church of England were treated with 
contempt. ‘ I would gladly exchange all the Thirty- 
nine Articles, ’said one of the speakers, ‘for a fortieth, of 
which the subject should be the peace of the Church.’ 
The doctrine of the Trinity was denounced by one of 
the writers of the association as 1 an imposition — a de- 
ception of a much later date than Athanasius — a de- 
ception, too, on which an article of faith is rested.’ 
The whole system of Christian doctrine, as taught by 
the Church of England, was assailed. The same 
writer affirms, with a degree of effrontery that might 


FEATLY 


515 


FEDERAL THEOLOGY 


well rouse the indignation of the clergy, ‘ that certain 
parts in the public service and doctrine of the Church 
are acknowledged by every clergyman of learning and 
candor to be unscriptural and unfounded ; no man of 
sense and learning can maintain them’ {Hints submit- 
ted to the Association , etc., etc., by a Layman, 1789). 
Bishop Horsley answered with force, but with the un- 
becoming asperity which defaces all his controversial 
writings.” The society was not long-lived, and, for 
many years after, any voice raised in the Church of 
England in favor of liturgical revision was silenced by 
the mention of “the Feathers’ Tavern.” — Marsden, 
Churches and Sects , i, 314 ; Baxter, Church History of 
England (London, 1849), p. G6S. 

Featly, Daniel, D.D., a learned divine, was born 
at Charlton, near Oxford, in 1582. His fatter was 
cook at Corpus Christi College, where the son received 
his education. In 1610, Sir Thomas Edmunds, ambas- 
sador of king James to France, chose him as his chap- 
lain at Paris, where he spent three years, and did great 
honor to the English nation and the Protestant cause. 
After his return he became successively rector of 
Northill in Cornwall, of Lambeth in Surrey, and of 
All-hallows in London. This last he soon changed 
for Acton in Middlesex, and then became provost of 
Chelsea College. In 162G he published his AndUa 
Pietatis , or “The Handmaid to Private Devotion,” 
which went through man} 1 - editions. In 1G43 he was 
appointed one of the assembly of divines, and was a 
witness against archbishop Laud. Heylin said of him 
that he always was a Calvinist in his heart, but he 
never showed it openly till then. But the Parliament- 
ary party soon took offence at him, and he was thrown 
into prison, where he remained six months, and where 
he chief!}" composed his celebrated answer to the Jes- 
uit’s challenge published under the name of Roma 
Ruens . Nearly at the same time he wrote a book 
against the Baptists, called The Dipper Dipt. His suf- 
ferings in prison brought on the dropsy, of which he 
died April 1, 1G45. Among his many writings (a list 
of which m a}’ be found in Wood's A thence Oxonienses ) 
are Claris Mystica , a key opening divers mysterious texts 
of Scripture , in 70 sermons (Lond. 1G36, fol.) : — Ilex - 
atexium , or six cordials against the terrors of death 
(London, 1G37, fol.). — Hook, Eccles . JSiog. v, 59; Mid- 
dleton, Blog. Evangel, vol. iii; Neal, History of the 
Puritans , Harper’s edit., i, 473; ii, 20 sq. 

Febroniiis. See Hontiieim. 

Fecht, Johann, a German theologian, was born 
at Salzburg December 26, 1636, and studied at several 
German universities, especially Tubingen and Heidel- 
berg. In 1GGG he became pastor of Langendenzlingen, 
and court preacher at Durlach in 1G68. He after- 
wards became professor of theology at Iiostock, where 
he died Ma} 7 5, 1716. He was a voluminous writer, 
delighted in controversy, and was especially bitter 
against the Pietists. Among his publications are, 
Lectimes Theologicce (Rostock, 1722): — Compendium 
Universes Theologies (Leips. 1744) : — Apparatus ad 
suppl. hist, eccles. saic. xvi. Gass calls him a “ most 
learned and fruitful divine, and much read, long after 
his death.” — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xvii, 246 ; 
Gass, Geschichte der Prot. Dogmatik (Berlin, 18G2, iii, 
148). 

Feder, Johann Michael, a Roman Catholic the- 
ologian, was born at Oellingen, near Wurzburg, in 
Bavaria. In 1785 he was appointed extraordinary, 
and in 1786 ordinary professor at the university. 
From 1804 to 1811 he was first librarian of the univer- 
sity library. He died in 1824. Feder was one of the 
most prolific writers in the Roman Catholic Church of 
Germany, though none of his works are of special im- 
portance. They arc chiefly translations from the 
Greek (Chrysostom, Cyril, Theodoret), Latin (works 
of Cicero, Cornelius Nepos, Vincent of Lerin), and 
French. He revised the translation of the Bible by 


Braun, and contributed to a number of the Roman 
Catholic periodicals of Germany. A complete list of 
his publications is given in the Thesaurus librorum rti 
catholicte (Wurzb. 1848). — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 
344 ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iii, 928. (A. J. S.) 

Federal Theology (fat.fadus, a compact; adj. 
fccderalis ), a method ot* stating divine truth, accord- 
ing to which all the doctrines of religion are arranged 
under the heads of certain covenants God has made 
with men. We set forth (I.) the doctrine, as stated 
by its advocates ; (II.) its history. 

I. Doctrine. — The fundamental idea of the system 
is that man has always stood towards God in the rela- 
tion of a covenant, though a covenant of a peculiar 
character. The ordinary idea of a covenant, which is 
that of a mutual compact between one or more parties, 
each bound to render some benefit to the other, is ob- 
viously excluded by the nature of the case. Where 
God and man are the parties, the benefits must be all 
on one side and the obligations on the other. The re- 
lationship must be determined and be imposed upon 
man b} r God in his right of a sovereign ruler. And 
yet it is something more than a mere law or promise. 
It involves, indeed, a law which man has no right to 
disobey ; but superadded to this is a promise of bene- 
fits vastly disproportioned to the merit of obedience, a 
limitation of the time and circumstances of the pro- 
bation on which all is made to depend, and the repre- 
sentation of many by some one as their natural head. 
There is even a virtual implication of mutual consent 
and obligations, for on the one hand God graciously 
binds himself to the performance of certain engage- 
ments with the view of securing results that shall man- 
ifest his glory ; and man freely consents when, with this 
understanding, he enters upon a course of obedience. 
Such a promise on God’s part, suspended upon the 
performance of a condition on man’s, is a covenant. 
The advocates of this system have usually made but 
two such covenants : viz. 1, that of nature or of works ; 
and, 2, that of grace. These have been successive in 
their revelation to man, since the former was an ar- 
rangement before the Fall, and the latter was not 
made known until after that event ; and yet the latter 
must have been agreed upon before all worlds, where- 
as the former could not have been formed until the cre- 
ation of man ; and some contend that those who refuse 
their consent to the covenant of grace must necessarily 
remain, even now, under the obligations and penalties 
of the covenant of works. In both we have the same 
contracting parties, God and man ; the same blessing 
to be attained, eternal life ; and the same requirement 
of perfect obedience ; but they differ, inasmuch as the 
covenant of grace is a dispensation of merc} r to sin- 
ners, is through a divine Mediator, and secures the 
blessings of eternal life without the possibility of a 
failure. 

1. The covenant of nature , or of works , is nowhere 
spoken of under that name, but is supposed to be 
more than once alluded to in the Scriptures. Some 
have thought they had discovered an express mention 
of it in Hos. vi, 7: “They, like Adam, have trans- 
gressed the covenant” (compare Job xxxi, 33; Psa. 
lxxxii, 7). The apostle often speaks of the law of 
works in contrast with the law of faith, of the two 
covenants (Gal. iv, 24), and not unfrequently of an old 
and a new covenant. It is not denied that by these 
expressions he usually meant the Mosaic or Sinaitic 
dispensation, in distinction from the evangelical; but 
it is thought that such a dispensation could be desig- 
nated a covenant of works only because it was a re- 
publication of a moral law to be a rule of conduct, but 
not a covenant of life, for a particular nation. The 
contrast and resemblance which Paul also draws be- 
tween the first and the second Adam (Rom. v, 12-21 ; 
1 Cor. xv, 45) would seem to have no meaning with- 
out the understanding of a covenant with our great 


FEDERAL THEOLOGY 


516 


FEDERAL THEOLOGY 


progenitor. All the essentials of a covenant, too, arc I 
discoverable in the constitution under which Adam 
was placed by his Maker. Not only was he, as a 
moral being, under obligation to conform to the law 
written upon his heart, and to obey the positive pre- 
cept given to test his confidence in God, but eternal 
life was promised him on condition of his obedience. 
He was constituted the representative of his race, and 
a limited period was assigned him in which the desti- 
ny of all was to be decided. That this is a true state- 
ment of the case was inferred from that which actually 
followed the transgression of our first parents, and 
must have been more or less clearly known to them. 
To such an arrangement those who had been created 
in the image of God could do no otherwise than yield 
a cheerful assent, inasmuch as far higher blessings 
were proposed by it than by an}' merely legal relation. 
We have reason to suppose, also, that their powers were 
quite ample for the performance of the condition. 
Many have thought that before the Fall they were 
endowed with such supernatural gifts as secured to 
them the possession of their original righteousness; 
but, as nothing is said of these in the sacred history, 
and as they appeared to many inconsistent with the 
possibility of man’s fall, most writers contend that the 
divine image consisted wholly in the knowledge and 
moral excellence which Adam had within himself. 
That he would have secured eternal life for himself 
and his descendants had he continued faithful for a 
prescribed period is inferred from the fact that he fell 
i'or himself and them ; and we have no reason to think 
that a benevolent God would have made the penalty 
more extensive in its influence than the promise. The 
penalty for disobedience was death, corporeal, spirit- 
ual, and eternal, for each of these necessarily fol- 
lowed a forfeiture of a divine life. The seal by which 
this covenant was ratified and signified was at least 
the tree of life, but a sacramental character has been 
attributed to almost everything mentioned in the scrip- 
tural account of Paradise. 

After an indefinite period this covenant was viola- 
ted on man’s part. This result was not the effect of 
any action on God’s part cither positive or privative, 
but in the exercise of man’s own freedom. No intel- 
lectual knowledge, or upright purposes, or pure affec- 
tions could give the creature absolute immutability; 
and hence, with the highest and best gifts, man “be- 
ing left to the freedom of his own will, fell from the 
• estate in which he was created.” The friends of the 
federal system allege that this was the only proper 
period of man’s probation, since only then was his 
destiny dependent upon a contingency. Ever since 
that event, if any are saved it must be by an uncon- 
ditional grant through Jesus Christ. The whole race 
sinned in Adam and fell with him, not because of any 
confusion of personal or moral identity, not because of 
any transference of character from one man to another, 
but simply because all were represented in him. As 
a representative, he was in no sense numerically one 
and the same with those he represents, for no one can 
represent himself. He simply acted in behalf of them, 
as a parent, or guardian, or agent often docs. There 
was a reason on account of w hich he w r as thus chosen 
to act in their stead. This was the unity of their na- 
ture with his, and his peculiar position as the natural 
head of the race; but their representation was some- 
thing additional to all that. A natural head of a 
family might be so situated that many consequences 
might flow r to them from his action, and yet he might 
not stand as their covenant or legal representative. 
Adam stood in our place, not directly, because he was 
our natural head, but because God chose him to stand 
thus. The natural relation might have been, and 
doubtless was, the reason for his being chosen to such 
an office, but the legal or covenant unity -was consti- 
tuted by thq divine designation and choice. The con- 
sequence was that all mankind, descending from him 


by ordinary generation, w’ere henceforth to be treated 
as guilty and fallen creatures. Only his first sin was 
thus imputed to them because the original covenant 
was broken by that alone, and Adam must afterwards 
have stood as a single person, and not as a public rep- 
resentative. Personally he lost the moral image of 
God, communion with God, corporeal life, a place in 
Paradise, and the hope of a blessed immortality. His 
posterity fell under the imputation of his guilt, were 
destitute of original righteousness, and became cor- 
rupt in their whole nature. As a method sanctioned 
by God for attaining eternal life, the covenant of 
works was henceforth abolished and forbidden, and 
yet all men are under obligation to obey the law', and 
on their own disobedience they must endure its pen- 
alty, unless they are redeemed by Jesus Christ. God 
has encouraged no expectation of salvation by an obe- 
dience to the law, for, even if such an obedience were 
possible, no one has ever realized it, and God has 
provided no promises for a merely hypothetical case. 
If, therefore, no other scheme had been proposed to 
man, each individual of our race had lain under the 
penalty of a broken covenant, which subjected him to 
a hopeless abandonment by his Maker, to all the evils 
of a dying state in this world, to final death itself, and 
to an everlasting banishment from God in the world 
to come. Not that each person was judicially con- 
demned to all these evils exclusively en account of 
the first sin, but such w r ere the consequences which 
would certainly follow that act. It is conceded that 
in the last day none will be condemned for any but 
their own personal sin, and yet it is contended that 
in the first sin all are rendered liable to loth the sin- 
fulness and the misery of the present state. 

2. The covenant of grace is that glorious scheme of 
wisdom and goodness by which eternal life and salva- 
tion have been provided for men in a way of free grace 
and mercy. It is sometimes distinguished from the 
covenant of redemption, inasmuch as the latter phrase 
may be confined to the arrangement in eternity be- 
tween the persons of the Trinity, and the former to 
the engagement into which God enters in time with 
believers. On the other hand, some have contended 
that the covenant of redemption is that stricter ar- 
rangement according to wdiicli believers arc delivered 
from all sin, while that of grace is that wider one ac- 
cording to which a sufficient atonement was provided 
for all men. It has, however, been most common to 
speak of all God’s arrangements for the salvation of 
men as under a single covenant, which, hou'ever, may 
have various modes of dispensation. One may con- 
ceive of the w hole race as fallen, and then of a scheme 
of mercy which provides first a door of mercy suffi- 
ciently open for all mankind to enter, and finally a 
system of means which should secure the actual sal- 
vation of a limited number ; or he may conceive of the 
eye of God being fixed first upon a limited number of 
our fallen race, and for their sake alone providing an 
atonement sufficient indeed for all men, but designed 
and efficient for the salvation of only a definite num- 
ber. The latter was the aspect in which the covenant 
of grace has usually been presented by its advocates. 
They have supposed that God originally anticipated 
the temporary character of the covenant of works, and 
determined upon another arrangement, by w hich a por- 
tion of mankind might be saved from the ruins of the 
apostasy. Why he did not include the whole or a 
larger portion of mankind within the scope of his sav- 
ing mercy, they prefer to leave out of discussion as an 
unapproachable mystery. That he had sufficient rea- 
sons without implying a w r ant of benevolence they as- 
sert without hesitation, but they think it best never to 
attempt a definition of them. Negatively they con- 
tend that the favored ones could have had no pre-emi- 
nence in natural goodness, since many of them confess 
themselves to be the chief of sinners. The effort to 
find a sufficient reason in the anticipated circumstances 


517 


FEDERAL THEOLOGY 


FEDERAL THEOLOGY 

of men has usually proved so confusing to the finite 
intellect, that most thinkers have concluded to leave 
the origin of discriminating grace where the Scrip- 
tures have left it, in the mere good pleasure (benepla- 
citum) of God. As we read of some who were chosen 
in Christ before the foundation of the world, it has 
been inferred that there must have been in eternity an 
agreement or covenant between the persons of the sa- 
cred Trinity, according to which a seed was given to 
xhe Son to serve him, and that he became their surety 
to satisfy the claims of justice upon them, to give them 
a title to eternal life, and to bring them to everlasting 
glory. The Father (who in this transaction is usually 
regarded as personating the Deity as such) engaged to 
spare his beloved Son, to furnish him with all suitable 
endowments and preparations for his work, to support 
him in it, to deliver into his hands all power in heaven 
and on earth, to pardon and accept all who should come 
unto God by him, and to confer upon him a glorious 
reward forever and ever. The llolv Spirit, who must 
also be looked upon as having a part in this covenant, 
also engaged to become the efficient agent in the re- 
generation, sanctification, and glorification of the holy 
seed. Without ascribing to this transaction the tech- 
nicalities of a human compact, and conceding that the 
whole mode of viewing it is anthropomorphic, it is con- 
tended that something equivalent to this, and amount- 
ing to such a mutual understanding, must have exist- 
ed in the sacred Trinity. An equal love towards men 
is supposed to have existed in each of the divine per- 
sons. But as man was under condemnation, and could 
not therefore act for himself, the Son of God acted in 
behalf of all of whom he was to be the spiritual head. 
To constitute a natural ground for this headship, he 
was to become a man, uniting divinity in one person 
with humanity. lie thus became a new federal head 
for his spiritual seed, similar to that which Adam had 
sustained to his natural descendants. In this relation 
he was to act in all he did as their representative. He 
was to share with them in the actual curse which the 
first sin had brought on the human race, not shrinking 
even from death in its most terrific form. Though 
this endurance was not the same with that which they 
would have endured in its spiritual results or in eter- 
nal duration, it was supposed to be infinite in value on 
account of the infinite dignity of his person. It was 
indeed sufficient in objective worth to expiate for any 
amount of sin in any number of worlds. It has actu- 
ally conferred innumerable benefits upon all men. 
Pardon and salvation is offered to every one who hears 
the Gospel ; time, opportunity, and some means of 
grace are afforded to all, and sufficient is done to leave 
those inexcusable who deny the Lord that bought 
them. But confessedly all are not made partakers of 
salvation, and only a portion of men were eternally 
given to Christ by the Father. Obviously it was not 
left to an uncertainty whether his work would be in 
vain or not. A seed was secured to him by covenant, 
and it was with an ultimate reference to these that he 
entered upon his work. Adapted to all, and sufficient 
for all as his work may be, it must have been specially 
designed to effect the salvation only of the covenant 
people. Of these alone can he he regarded as the 
proper head and representative, since they alone are 
ingrafted into him by a living and active faith. To 
them alone is his perfect righteousness imputed, as if 
he had suffered and obeyed in their stead. By his 
sufferings lie has satisfied for their guilt, and by his 
perfect obedience to the law he has obtained for them 
a title to eternal life. He thus becomes their surety, 
not merely to make them inherently holy, hut to per- 
form what is required of them. He satisfies in this 
way both the penalty and the precept of the broken 
covenant. That covenant required obedience only for 
a limited period, and he has fulfilled the law during 
the time allotted him by the Father. The whole per- 
son of the Redeemer in both natures was subject to 


the law, and as such an obedience (at least in this spe- 
cial form of it) was not obligatory, but voluntary on 
his part, it became available for an infinite righteous- 
ness. 

Such was the covenant of grace as formed in eter- 
nity. To this must be added its actual administration 
in time. Of course the only administrator of it was 
the Son of God himself, the mediator between God and 
man. He has power over all flesh, in order to give 
eternal life to as many as had been given him. He it 
was who represented the divine Ruler in all those dis- 
pensations of mercy of which the sacred history in- 
forms us. Although at different periods of human his- 
tory the outward forms of religion have been changed, 
the covenant of grace, which lay at the basis of them 
all, w r as always the same. Salvation has in all cases 
been by Christ, even where the subjects of it knew lit- 
tle or nothing respecting him. None have ever been 
saved by the law of works, and none have had their 
hopes hounded by promises of an earthly home. The 
antediluvians, the patriarchs, Job and his friends, the 
Israelites in Egypt and under the Mosaic dispensation, 
looked for forgiveness under certain prescribed condi- 
tions, and for a city beyond the present world whose 
builder and maker is God. The only difference be- 
tween them was that salvation avas presented with 
greater obscurity, under more symbolical forms, with 
narrow er restrictions to families and nations, and with 
less enlarged measures of the divine Spirit at some pe- 
riods than at others. Ordinarily there have been reck- 
oned but two principal economies or dispensations, viz. 
that under the Old and that under the New Testa- 
ment. Although the same word in the original lan- 
guages of the Bible is applied to all covenants between 
God and man, the advocates of the federal system 
have translated them differently when applied on the 
one hand to the great covenants of nature and of grace, 
and on the other to the different economies under the 
covenant of grace. Availing themselves of the double 
meaning, especially of the Greek w T ord (jSiaSrtjKtj), they 
have usually designated these latter economies by the 
name of testaments, to indicate that they were that 
peculiar kind of arrangements which acquire validity 
only after the decease of him who makes them. 
Though the Redeemer had not, in fact, died before the 
earlier dispensation, he was looked upon as slain from 
the foundation of the world, and the dispensations of 
mercy were even then constituted in anticipation of his 
death. Hence, wffien speaking of the communication 
of benefits to men, no mutual conditions are implied, 
but Jesus Christ is said to bequeath them by testa- 
ment. The death of the testator is indispensable to 
render the grant valid, and to make the promises sure 
(TIeb. ix, 10-17). Conditions, in the proper sense of 
the word, on the part of God’s people, are not required, 
but benefits are supposed to be bestow T ed absolutely, 
by free donation, and by an irrevocable will. Men 
are indeed to believe, to be holy, and to persevere 
faithfully unto the end, but all this is supposed to be 
secured by the free grace of God in Christ. 

The Christian dispensation is the ultimate form in 
which the covenant of grace will be administered; for, 
since all national restrictions have been removed, and 
the Holy Spirit is given in his plenitude, no other is 
conceivable. Jesus Christ will continue to administer 
it until the whole world shall be subdued unto him. 
Finally, the present economy of things shall cease, the 
dead shall be raised, the living shall be changed, every 
human being shall be judged at Christ’s bar for sins, 
not only against God as a moral ruler, but against 
himself as the mediatorial king, and sentence shall he 
passed upon each according to his works. Christ will 
claim the right to do this even with respect to such as 
are not under his spiritual headship, inasmuch as they 
too are in one sense purchased b} 7 - him (2 Pet. ii, 1), and 
hence power over all flesh has been given him by the 
Father (John x vii, 2). Then , having obtained full pos 


FEDERAL THEOLOGY 


518 


FEDERAL THEOLOGY 


session of his kingdom, he 'will present it to the Father 
as the economical representative of the Godhead, either 
in token of the completeness of his -work, or as indica- 
ting the close of his mediatorship. Hut, -whether he 
demits his peculiar office (1 Cor. xv, 28), or only brings 
his mediatorial kingdom into some new relation, he 
will then complete the scheme of the covenant of 
grace, and receive his eternally betrothed Church into 
an everlasting union with himself. 

II. History. — The words rendered covenant are fre- 
quently used in the original Scriptures in application 
to God’s dealings with his creatures. The Hebrew 
r'HS signifies undoubtedly in its primary meaning 
a mutual compact (Robinson’s Gesenius’s Lexicon ), and 
vet it is not unfrequently applied to transactions in 
which such an idea in its strictness is impossible (Gen. 
ix f 9-18 ; Jer. xxxiii, 20-21). With a true sense of 
its usage and idea, if not strictly according to its ety- 
mological signification, the LXX have translated this 
word by the Greek diaSi]Mi, the generic meaning of 
which is a disposition or arrangement, and lapses into 
the idea of a mutual compact or testament only when 
the author or authors of it happened to be mutual stip- 
ulators or testators. But neither in the Septuagint 
nor in the New Testament is the word ever applied to 
the relation in which man stood before the Fall, but al- 
ways to some transaction or dispensation under the 
covenant of grace (Hos. vi, 7, with this signification, 
is doubtful). Nor has any clear instance of such an 
application of the word to man’s primeval state been 
found in any theological writer before the commence- 
ment of the 17th century. (See, however, Bede on 
Gen. xvii, 14.) Certainly no one had attempted to 
arrange all the materials of a systematic theology un- 
der the general heads of divine covenants. And yet 
there was an obvious tendency in that direction among 
the Reformed churches of the Calvinistic school. These 
had become familiar with the word in relation to 
Christ and his people, and with all the principles in- 
volved in a covenant with Adam. They had seen 
that Adam’s original position was not that of a mere 
subject of law, but that promises had been made to 
him with a condition, m l that the whole race were rep- 
resented on a limited probation in him. It is general- 
ly conceded that the federal system had its origin with 
Kloppenburg, a professor of theology at Franeker 
( lied in 1652). The first, however, who had the ge- 
nius and boldness to give definiteness and complete- 
ness to the system was John Koch'(Coceeius), a pupil 
of his, and a successor in the same chair. In his 
Summa doctriwr, defedere et testamento Dei (1648), and 
still further in his more enlarged Summa Theohgice (2d 
edit. 1665), he comprises all the doctrines of the Chris- 
tian religion under the two great categories of the cov- 
enants of nature and of grace. The method he pursued 
has gained for him the appellation of “the Father of 
Biblical Theology;” and, laying aside the practice usu- 
al with his predecessors, of viewing divine truth in its 
subjective form, either as logically constructed by a 
human mind, or as it was supposed to lie in the di- 
vine mind around the great central doctrine of pre- 
destination, ho professed to come to the Scriptures, 
reverently to read them, and derive his system from 
the inspired historical arrangement. The events of 
human history were regarded in their anthropological 
aspect as well as related to the divine efficiency. The 
final cause of salvation he can indeed find nowhere 
else than in the divine mind, and he has no occasion 
to impinge against the highest style of contemporary 
orthodoxy, and yet he succeeded in giving to theology 
a more practical character. Although under all dis- 
pensations he conceived of man as receptive, and God 
alone as communicative, he still represented man as 
coming under an obligation to perform Certain duties 
which were looked upon as a virtual condition of the 
divine promises. This fidelity to the scriptural repre- 


sentation compelled him to develop his system accord- 
ing to the successive periods of the sacred history 
(Ehrard, Dogmen. § 40 ; D. Schenkel, Christ.-Dogmen. 

§ 129, note). 

As often occurs when great changes are introduced 
in formal statements of truth, this system was ;.s bit- 
terly opposed as if it had been an essential error. Oth- 
er principles, on which the author was more vulnera- 
ble, were introduced into the controversy ; but the 
main features of his system soon obtained a remarka- 
ble degree of acceptance in all the Reformed churches 
1 of France, Switzerland, Holland, Scotland, and among 
the English Puritans. The orthodox Roman Catho- 
lics have always regarded it with aversion, and the 
Jansenists oppose the whole conception of a covenant 
with Adam as an innovation upon Augustinism, and 
needless to explain the natural effects of the first sin 
(Father Paul’s Jlist. of the Council of Trent, p. 177-201 ; 
Jansenius, August, ii, 208-11). The Lutheran divines 
have in general rejected it on account of the promi- 
nence it still gave to the doctrine of predestination, 
and because, w hen the word covenant was divested of 
the idea of a mutual compact, it offered no advantages 
over the words w'hich had long been in use (Thoma- 
sius, Christi Ptrson und Werk, § 28). The Arminians 
of Holland were partially conciliated by those jurid- 
ical considerations by which the advocates of the 
system defended it, and many of them accepted of it 
with some important modifications. The object of 
these v’as to limit the direct consequences of Adam’s 
sin to a privation of original righteousness, or the loss 
of those aids of the divine spirit on which they made 
the original moral image to depend, to temporal evils, 
and to bodily death, together with such a depravation 
of our mental and moral state as renders us incapable 
of obedience, and so to extend the benefits of Christ’s 
death that he should not only be regarded as dying 
for all men alike, but as actually restoring to them 
such supernatural aids as, if properly used, would en- 
able them to lay hold upon the great salvation (Nieh- 
ol’s Calvinism and Arminianism in Watson’s Theol. 
Instit. ii, 45). Notwithstanding the objections raised 
against the federal system, its principles w ere carried 
still further forward with fearless and logical consist- 
ency by Francis Burmann, a pupil of Koch, and a pro- 
fessor in the University of Utrecht. In his Synopsis of 
Theology , and especially of the Economy of the Covenants 
(1671), he endeavored to show that all the details of 
the covenant of nature were fairly to be inferred from 
the idea of the divine image in man in connection wdth 
what w r e know of the divine goodness, since that good- 
ness would of course desire to bring man into the high- 
est communion with itself, and would not be satisfied 
with the prescriptions of a mere natural justice. The 
difficulties, how’ever, with which the system w r as pressed 
by its opponents were sought to be removed by Her- 
mann Witsius, a successor and former pupil of Burmann 
in the theological chair of the University of Utrecht. 
In his Economy of the Covenants , the first edition of 
which appeared in 1685, some important distinctions 
maintained by his predecessors were given up (as, e. g. 
that between the 7 rdpeotg of the Old and the dtytotg of 
the New Testament, as shown in Rom. id, 25, 26, and 
the three dispensations or economies of the covenant 
of grace) ; a minute parallel is drawn between the two 
covenants by the introduction of four sacraments into 
Paradise (the tree of life, the tree of knowledge, the 
Sabbath, and Paradise itself) ; and a sacramental char- 
acter is given to a multitude of things under the econ- 
omy before the law (the coats of skins, the ark, the 
rainbow r , etc. bk. ii, chap, viii, § 10 ; bk. iv, chap. vii). 
In 1688 a further attempt was made to complete the 
federal system by Melchior Levdecker, another pro- 
fessor in Utrecht, who, though not in the strictest 
sense a Federalist, professedly wrote under its spirit 
and tendency. In his Seven Books upon the Truth of 
the Christian Bcligion , he endeavors to trace the econ- 


FEDERAL THEOLOGY 519 FEDERAL THEOLOGY 


omy of the covenant of grace to the several Persons I 
of the sacred Trinity, by showing that the Father re- ■ 
veals himself, especially in the Old Testament, as the 
universal Ruler maintaining the cause of justice ; the 
Son, especially during his life on earth, as the Media- 
tor dispensing mercy ; and the Holy Ghost, especially 
since the day of Pentecost, as the Comforter exercising 
divine and saving power. This arbitrary assignment 
of the divine attributes, however, has never been ac- 
ceptable. Though the Heidelberg Catechism was com- 
posed before the federal theory was distinctly broached, 
most of the great commentaries which have been writ- 
ten upon it were written by Federalists. The matnrest 
fruit of that system may be 'seen in the writings of 
Solomon van Til (Tilenus), a professor in Dort and 
Leyden, whose Compends ( Compend of Nat. and Rev. 
Theol. Leyden, 1704, and Compend of Theology, Berne, 
1703) were the organic union of the three great ten- 
dencies of Scholasticism, Federalism, and Cartesian- 
ism, and have obtained general acceptance in the 
schools of Holland ; and in those of F. A. Lampe, the 
pastor of several influential congregations and a pro- 
fessor in Utrecht (1720-27), whose doctrinal and practi- 
cal works in the German vernacular have had the hon- 
or of reconciling Pietism to the orthodox Church, and 
have sometimes had a popularity scarcely inferior to 
the authorized Catechism of the national Church. It 
does not appear that the Federal system has at any 
time found universal acceptance in the Reformed 
churches. It has never been either condemned or 
sanctioned by the public synod, and such has been the 
balance of parties that, by right of long-established 
custom, one Federalist must be appointed in each of 
the universities of Holland (Ebrard, Christ . Dogm. § 
41). 

A modification both of the Scholastic and Federal 
theology made its appearance among the Protestants 
of France. The rival theological schools of Sanmur 
and Montauban zealously adopted the federal system. 
But John Cameron, a Scotchman, who at different 
times was a professor in both institutions [see Cam- 
eron], and his pupils, Molse Amyraut (Amyraldus) 
and Joshua de la Place (Placaaus), who were associated 
as professors at Saumur (1633-64), proposed, and for 
many years maintained, a peculiar system, which at- 
tempted to reconcile it with the doctrine of a univer- 
sal redemption. See Amyraut and La Place. The 
result was a crude syncretism of an ideal or hypothet- 
ical Universalism with a rigid and real Particularism. 
Amyraut maintained that there were three instead of 
two general covenants with man — the natural , with a 
positive prohibition and a promise of a blessed life in 
Paradise ; a legal , promising the land of Canaan on 
condition of a life of faith; and the gracious , promis- 
ing eternal life on the condition of faith in Christ. La 
Place also drew a distinction between a mediate and 
an immediate imputation, according to which Adam’s 
sin might be imputed to his posterity, either medi- 
ately, on account of a previously recognised inherent 
depravity in them ; or it might be imputed to them 
immediately, simply on account of their federal repre- 
sentation in Adam. This whole system was strenu- 
ously opposed by the elder Spanheim, of Geneva and 
Leyden ; J. II. Heidegger, of Zurich ; and Francis Tur- 
retin, of Geneva. At the two last national sjmods 
ever held in France (Charenton, in 1645, and Loudun, 
in 16.39) the authors successfully defended themselves 
from the charge of heresy, and maintained that their 
views were only a more distinct statement of doctrines 
which had been universally held b}' the orthodox 
Church since primitive times, and especially by Au- 
gustine and Calvin ; but a statement of opinions im- 
puted to them (incorrectly, as they maintained) was 
condemned at a synod at Charenton (1642), and the 
Formula Consensus Helvetica was composed principal- 
ly by Heidegger (1675), and was adopted and sent 
forth to guard the churches against such views. Al- 


though this is one of the most scientific and highly 
esteemed of the Calvinistic confessions, and is the only 
one among the Continental confessions which is con- 
structed expressly upon the basis of the federal sys- 
tem, its authority has never been acknowledged in 
France, and it was received by only five of the Swiss 
cantons (and there mainly through the support of the 
civil magistrates), and finally lost all public sanction 
within fifty years from its promulgation (Ebrard’s 
Christ. Dogm. § 43 ; L. Noack’s Christ. Dogmengesch. § 
74 ; Shedd’s Hist, of Chr . Doct. ii, 412). 

In the British Islands, and especially in those 
churches which adhere to the confession of faith put 
forth by the Synod of Westminster (1643-8), we have 
the stronghold of the federal system. The represent- 
atives of the English Church at the Synod of Dort 
(1618-19), and especially bishop Davcnant, had main- 
tained a system similar to that of Amyraut, and a large 
party in that Church have always held views based 
upon the federal theology. Even Jeremy Taylor 
maintained it (1654), with some Arminian, and even 
Pelagian modifications, in one of his treatises (On Re - 
pentance, ch. i, § 1). The celebrated Richard Baxter, 
thongh he “subscribed to the Synod of Dort without 
any exception, limitation, or exposition of any word,” 
was an ardent admirer of the federal theology, as qual- 
ified by Amyraut (Preface to The Saints' Rest , 1650; 
Cath. Theol. 1675; Univ. Redemp. 1657; Orme’s Life 
of Baxter, vol. ii, ch. ii). The assembly of divines at 
Westminster was, in fact, contemporary with the first 
publication of Koch’s principal work on the covenants 
(1648), and deserves a credit, perhaps, equal to his for 
the origination and precise statement of the doctrine. 
The national Scotch Church, with its affiliated brandi- 
es in Scotland and Ireland, has always upheld the sys- 
tem in its utmost consistency and extremest form. 
The United Presbyterian Church alone is said to main- 
tain it, with some modifications connected with the 
theory of a general atonement (Wardlaw, On the Ex- 
tent of the Atonement , § 13-15). Among the orthodox 
dissenters of England it has also been accepted, and 
found some of its most able defenders. The We si cy- 
ans of England and America claim that they are ena- 
bled, by their peculiar modifications of it, to “carry 
through the system with greater consistency than the 
Calvinists themselves, inasmuch as they more easily 
account for certain good dispositions and occasional 
religious inclinations in those who never give evidence 
of actual conversion.” By their doctrine of a general 
redemption, they maintain that in spite of the loss of 
the supernatural aids through the Fall, and the conse- 
quent incapacity of unassisted man to have such good 
dispositions, there is given to every one, through 
Christ, those gracious influences which, if not resisted, 
would lead on to a saving conversion (Watson's Theol. 
Instit. ii, 48-52 ; Porter’s Comp, of Methodism, pt. ii, ch. 
iv). The reason that these gracious influences are 
not resisted they can only refer to the doctrine of 
free-will, and from the nature of the case they can 
give no farther account of it. The orthodox Congre- 
gationalists and the New-school Presbyterians of the 
United States usually object to the phrase “ universal 
redemption ” as used by the Amyraldists of France, the 
Baxterians of England, and the Arminians generally, 
inasmuch as the word redemption properly signifies 
more than what is obtained simply by the expiatory 
work of Christ, and includes an entire deliverance 
from sin. They therefore use the word atonement to 
signify the objective or expiatory work of Christ, and 
contend that this is for sin, and for all men, while re- 
demption implies the salvation of men, and must, of 
course, be confined to such as shall be saved (Dr. W. 
R. Weeks, in Parks’s Collections on the Atonement , p. 
579). Such an atonement is not merely hypothetical, 
but really opens the door of salvation to all men, who 
are supposed, even since the Fall, to possess all those 
faculties and powers which render them responsible for 


FEEJEE 


520 


FEELING 


a compliance with the terms of salvation. And yet, 
so certain are all men to use their powers, and the best 
external means of grace, to their perdition, that no 
reason can be assigned for the repentance and faith 
of any but the covenant of grace formed in Christ be- 
fore the world was (Dwight’s Tkeol. ser. xliii; Barnes, 
On the Atonement, chap, ix; Fresh. Quart. Rev. iii, 218 
-252, 630-048). Other classes of Presbyterians and 
Calvinistie Baptists in this country use the word re- 
demption, and even atonement, in the sense of an en- 
tire deliverance from sin ; and they, of course, confine 
its application to the elect. They speak in the largest 
terms of the sufficiency of the work of Christ for the 
pardon of all sin, but regard it as limited in the pur- 
pose and design of God to such as are effectually called 
of the Spirit, and are kept by the power of God through 
faith unto salvation (. Princeton Theol. Essays, vol. v,viii, 
and xiv; A. Fuller’s Gospel , etc., in Works, i, 312-340, 
vol. i, artt. viii and xiv). 

Til. Literature. — On the general system and his- 
tory: Tnrretin’s Inst. Theol. Elench. loc. viii and xii; 
Hill’s Led. in Divinity , bk. v, ch. v ; Dick’s Led. on 
Theol. lect. xlviii ; Witsius, (Ficon, of the Cov. 3 vols. ; 
Buck’s, Smith’s, and Kitto’s Dictionaries , art. Cove- 
nants; Herzog’s Real-Encykl. arts. Cocceius, Burmann, 
AVitsius, and Voetius ; Ebrard’s Chr. Dogm. § 37-44; 
Vincent’s and Fisher’s Catechisms; llagenbach’s Hist, 
of Dodr. § 224; New Englander , xxvii, 469-516; Bill. 
Repert. for 1868 ; L. Noack’s Chr. Dogmengesch. § 74 ; 
Knapp’s Christ. Theol. § 76, 113; Hopkins’s System , i, 
240-250 ; Mercersburg Review , x, 63 ; Kelly, On the 
Covenants ; Jahrb. Deutsch. Thcolog. x, 209 ; Fletcher’s 
Works, i, 452; Gass, Protest. Theol. ii, 276, 318; Isaac 
Watts's Ruin and Recovery , p. 324-347 ; Bidgley’s Body 
of Dh'inity, p. 11 ; Dr. E. A. Park’s Discourses and 
Treatises by Edwards , Smalley, Maxey, Emmons , Grif- 
fin, Burge, and T Feeds', on the Atonement ; Neander, 
Dogmengesch. per. iii, bk. ii, c-f; Max Goebel, Gesch. 
d. chr. Lebens , etc., vol. ii, A, § 7-10, p. 153 ; Cunning- 
ham’s IHst. Theol. ch. xxv ; Schweitzer, Ref. Dogm. p. 
103 sq. (C. P. W.) 

Feejee Islands. See Fiji. 

Feeling. The relation of feeling to religion is a 
subject of importance both from a religions and philo- 
sophical point of view. It has been viewed in very 
different ways, and has led to long and animated con- 
troversies. 

In Greek, the word denoted every kind of 

perception, sensuous and spiritual, mediate and imme- 
diate ; consequently, also what we call feeling. Plato 
referred to a sensuous spiritual feeling, though he did 
not call it by this name ; for, according to him, the un- 
derstanding (rof'c) communes with the affections (hri- 
SvfujriKor'), and the scat of this communion is the liver, 
from which proceed the power of divination (pavnia') 
and enthusiasm (tr^onmarr/mc). Connected with this 
view is the opinion of Plato, that virtue cannot be 
taught, and that what is substantially good breaks forth 
in the soul as an immediate light. 

The extensive usage of the Latin word sensus em- 
braces also the natural moral feeling, sensus communis , 
sensus hominum. 

In the Septnagint the word aiadtjaig frequently oc- 
curs, and is generally rendered by “knowledge” or 
“wisdom,” as Prov. i, 7 ; xii, 23. In the New Testa- 
ment it occurs only once, Phil, i, 9, where it is coupled 
with t ‘TiiyvojGiQ (English version : and this I pray that 
your love may abound yet more and more in knowl- 
edge and in all judgment). 

The psychological meaning of the words 
and sensus in the Greek and Latin fathers is not fully 
settled, but in general they use them to denote a 
knowledge, or insight obtained by means of feeling. 
Origen ( contra Cclsuni , i, 48) speaks of a £l divine in- 
sight” (feia a’inStjenc) of the soul by means of which 
enlightened men perceive supernatural things just as 


others perceive natural objects by means of their senses. 
Clement ( Stromat . iv, p. 333, ed. Potter) ascribes to the 
scientific man a avvaiaSyaiQ, a faculty of inventing 
and understanding, analogous to the faculty of taste 
possessed by the sculptor, and the sense of hearing pos- 
sessed by the musician. To denote a feeling accom- 
panying the will, the Latin fathers used the word ki- 
vi)(n£. Among the Latin fathers, Tertullian ( De ani- 
ma , chap, ii) spoke of a publicus sensus which leads the 
soul to a knowledge of God. Augustin introduced the 
expression inner sense (interior sensus ), which become 
of great importance in the writings of the mystics. 
The common expressions in the mystics to denote sub- 
jective and objective feeling are sensus , sentimentum 
affectus , gustus. Affectus always embraces a practical 
impulse. Gustus , which is identified with sensus , does 
not exclude the practical impulse, but properly de- 
notes feeling viewed in its relation to its own con- 
tents, and therefore designated as a modus cognoscendi , a 
kind of cognition. The immediateness of this sensus, 
which words cannot fully express, is therefore, in the 
opinion of the mystics, greatly superior to an intellect- 
ual insight. Mystic theology, according to Gerson, be- 
cause it rests on feeling, is widely different from all 
other sciences. Thomas Aquinas regards not only 
mystical theology, but theology and faith in general, 
as founded in the pia ajfedio (pious or religious feel- 
ing), because faith supposes a movement of the will 
towards the first truth and the highest good which pro- 
duces assent (Summa Theol. ii, 2, 9, 4, 5). 

The mystical writers of Germany in the Middle 
Ages, writing on practical more than speculative sub- 
jects, spoke of feeling in particular as a subjective con- 
sciousness, and demanded its renunciation. The spir- 
itual man, they urged, should emancipate himself 
from all emotion, and sever his connection with every- 
thing created, that God might become present to him, 
and eternity might be felt by him and tasted. The 
objective feeling of the supranatural God appears to 
these writers as the final result of the renunciation of 
the subjective feeling of personal and individual ex- 
istence. 

Luther warned against a reliance upon “feeling” 
instead of clinging to the “ word.” At the same time, 
however, he demands that the soul feel the call of the 
Lord, and the “spirit of adoption, whereby we cry 
Abba, father” (Rom. viii, 15), he defines as a feeling of 
the fatherly love of God. The testimony of the Holy 
Ghost he finds in the religious experience, and this ex- 
perience he identifies with the religious feeling. Sim- 
ilar are the views of the other reformers and the early 
writers of the Reformed churches. 

A greater stress was laid on feeling as an element 
of religion by the Pietists, who regarded its very inex- 
prcssibility as an argument for its truth. The same 
was done by the Moravians, who reduced religion to 
the feeling of truth. Opposition to the Pietists made 
most of the later dogmatic writers of the Lutheran 
Church suspicious of feeling as an element of religion ; 
but some recognised its importance, as M. rfaff (In- 
stil. Theol. and Moral. ), who did not hesitate to apply 
(like the society of Friends) to the “spiritual feeling” 
(sensus or gustus spiritualis) the expression “spiritual 
light” (lumen spiritual') . 

About the middle of the 18th century arose the sys- 
tem of LTilitarianism. Bread and butter were now 
more valuable than metaphysics. In the same pro- 
portion as confidence in the truth of thought vanished, 
confidence in the objective contents of feeling was 
also weakened. But gradually philosophy prepared 
the way for a more correct appreciation of feeling. 
Until AVolf, philosophy had onh r recognised two fac- 
ulties of the soul, intellect and will (or desire). * Te- 
tens added feeling as “the inner sense for the pleasant 
and the unpleasant.” Kant, also, in his Kritik dir 
Urtheilskrnft, reduced all faculties of the soul to three, 
one of which was the Gefuhl der Lust und Unlust (feel- 


FEET 


521 


FELICISSDIUS 


ing of the pleasant and unpleasant). Kant also called 
attention to the fact that in aesthetics the beautiful and 
sublime is felt, and the infinite is seen in the finite ap- 
pearance. Here, therefore, an objective feeling was 
found. This idea of Kant’s aesthetics was further de- 
veloped by Fries, who based upon feeling an aisthctico- 
religious system which taught that the highest ideas 
must be divined by faith. Jacobi taught an immedi- 
ate faculty of the divine, which he first called the fac- 
ulty of faith ; later, of reason ; finally — adopting the 
terms of Fries — of feeling. 

These philosophical speculations greatly influenced 
the various s} 7 stems of Rationalism. After the times 
of Wolf, only a few, as Rohr, adhered to an exclusive 
intellcctualism. Most of the important representatives 
of Rationalism accept the theories of Fries and Jacobi. 
Thus Wegseheider refers chiefly to the philosophical 
works of the disciples of Jacobi — Gerlacli, Bouterweck, 
and Salat. And Gabler, one of the keenest of the early 
Rationalists, defines religion as a “feeling of depend- 
ence upon the infinite.” 

Among the adherents of Supranaturalism, Bret- 
schneider and Reinhard recognised only a subjective 
feeling, but Dc M'ctte introduced the theory of Fries 
into s} r stematic theology. Unlike Fries, however, in 
whose system there still was some obscurity as regards 
the relation of feeling and will to religion, De Wette 
based religion altogether on feeling or an aesthetic view 
of the world, in which all difference between religion 
and art disappeared. 

The system of Jacobi and of Spinoza, together with 
the spirit prevailing among the Moravians, worked to- 
gether to produce the new doctrine of feeling which 
constituted the basis of the theology of Sclileiermacher, 
and which still influences most theological systems of 
modern times. For Schleiermacher, religion is “the 
feeling of absolute dependence that to which our re- 
flection traces our individual existence is called God ; 
and thus, in feeling, God is given to ns in an original 
manner. See Schleiermacher. This theory of feel- 
ing was defended and keenly developed by Twesten, 
and in particular by Nitzsch. Hegel severely attacked 
the views of Schleiermacher, but his own views con- 
siderably changed with the gradual development of his 
system. See Tholuck, in Herzog’s RaaCEncyklopddie, 
iv, 703. (A. J. S.) 

Feet. Sec Foot. 

Feith, Ruijxvis, was born at Zwolle Feb. 7, 1753. 
He received a careful Christian training. At fifteen 
he entered the University of Leyden. In 1781 he 
competed with Lannoy in celebrating De Ruyter. His 
epic received the gold, and his lyric the silver medal. 
As a poet, he enjoyed a high reputation through life. 
He excelled chiefly as a didactic poet, though he also 
tried his hand at lyric and dramatic poetry. Ilis lyric 
on Immortality (De Onsterfelijkheid ) is beautiful and 
sublime. Ilis didactic poem on the Grave (Ilet Graf ) 
is his longest, and is regarded as one of his best pro- 
ductions, abounding in the beautiful, the striking, and 
the sublime. Ilis poetic writings are very numer- 
ous; and he also wrote several volumes of prose, 
lie was appointed one of a commission to prepare a 
book of hymns for the use of the Reformed Church 
in Holland. This duty he discharged with great 
zeal and fidelity. To this collection he contributed 
himself a large number of beautiful and appropriate 
hymns, most of them original, and a few translated 
from the German. Though a layman, he was a suc- 
cessful cultivator of theology. Two essays or trea- 
tises of his on important questions received the pre- 
mium from Tevler’s Theological Society, and another 
was crowned by the Hague Society. He died Feb- 
ruary 8, 1824, at his villa near Zwolle. See Siegen- 
beek’s Gesehiedenis dvr Node rla ndsche Letterhmde 
(Haarlem, 1826) ; Hofdijk’s Geschiedenis der Neder- 
landsche Letterhmde , bl. 415 en very. (Amstcrd. 1SG4) ; 


1 Glasius, Godgeleerd Nederland , biz. 460 en verv. ; Ge« 
sehiedenis der Christ elijke Kerk in Nederland door B. 
j ter Haar , IF. Moll , K. P. Sicalue , etc., ii Deel, biz. 593 
en verv. (Amstcrd. 18G0) ; Evangelische Gezangen , in- 
troduced in 1807. (J. P. W.) 

Felgenhauer, Paul, a Protestant thcosophisfc ana 
ntystic, w r as the son of a Lutheran clergyman in Bohe- 
mia. He was born at Putschwiz, in Bohemia, in 1620. 
He studied medicine at the University of Wittenberg, 
but soon after returning to his native country appeared 
(1620) in public as a writer on theological subjects. In 
his Chronology he maintained that Christ was born in 
the year 4235 after the creation of the world, and as the 
world was not to last more than 6000 years, it ought 
to come to an end in A.D. 1765. As, however, the 
time was to be shortened on account of the elect, he 
assumed that the end of the world would occur before 
that year, although he claimed no special revelations 
on the subject. In his Zdtspiegel he denounced the 
corruption of the Church and of the Lutheran clergy. 
The persecution of Protestantism in Bohemia compelled 
him to leave his country. lie first (1623) went to 
Amsterdam, where he published a number of mystic 
and alchemic writings, the theological views of which 
may be reduced to Sabcllianism and Monophysitism, 
resting on a pantheistic and cabalistic basis. The 
large circulation of some of his works alarmed the Lu- 
theran clergy, and many wrote against him. Not 
satisfied with this, the clergy of Hamburg, Lubeck, 
and Liineburg requested the ministry at Amsterdam 
to arrest the circulation of the works of Felgenhauer, 
and the spreading of his views, if necessary, by force. 
From 1635 to 1639 he lived at Bederkcsa, near Bre- 
men, where he held meetings of his adherents. Ex- 
pelled from Bremen, he returned to Holland, where 
he, however, soon left again for Northern Germain 7 . 
In 1657 lie was arrested by order of the governments 
of Zelle and Hanover, and imprisoned at Syke. The 
efforts of several Lutheran clergymen to convert him 
to the Lutheran creed failed. About 1659 he lived in 
Hamburg. The year of his death is not known. A 
complete list of his works (forty-six in number) is 
given in Adelung, Geseh. der menschl. Narrheit , iv, 400. 
— Herzog, ReaLEncykl. iii, 348 ; Arnold, Kir eh. -u. Kei- 
zerhistorie , vol. iii, ch. v. (A. J. S.) 

Felibien, Jacques, a Roman Catholic divine, was 
born at Chartres in 1G36, and distinguished himself in 
youth by success in stud} 7 , especially of the Scripture. 
In 1668 he became pastor at Vineul; in 1669, canon 
of Chartres ; in 1695, archdeacon of Vendome. He 
died at Chartres Nov. 23, 1716. Besides various prac- 
tical works, he wrote Le Symbole des Apotres explique 
par Vecrifure Sainte (Blois, 1696, 12nio) : — Comment, in 
Oseam (Chartres, 1702, 4to) :—Pentaienchus Ilistoricus 
ex fonte Ilebraieo, etc. (Chartres, 1703, 4to). This 
book gave rise to much clamor, and Felibien was 
obliged to suppress various passages in which lie was 
supposed to have departed from the orthodox interpre- 
tations. Moreover, as it had been printed with the 
permission only of the bishop, and without that of the 
royal censor, the book was suppressed by the govern- 
ment, and all the printed copies confiscated. — Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate , xvii, 274. 

Felicissimus, the author of a schism in the 
Church of Carthage in the 3d century, was appointed 
deacon in Carthage by the presbyter Novatus, without 
a previous understanding with Cvprian, who, a short 
time before, had been elected bishop. Cyprian de- 
clared his appointment to be an encroachment upon his 
episcopal prerogatives, but did not depose him. Dur- 
ing the Dccian persecution Cyprian was for some time 
absent from Carthage, and some of the presbyters, who 
claimed greater rights than Cyprian was willing to 
concede to them, began to readmit the lapsi to the 
communion of the Church in consequence of the libelfi 
pads given by the martyrs, without having an under- 


FELICITAS 


FELIX 


5: 

standing on the subject with Cyprian. The latter re- 
proached the presbyters with too great laxity, and 
sent a commission to Cartilage which was to investi- 
gate the conduct of the lapsi, and to regulate the sup- 
port which the treasury of the Church granted in cer- 
tain cases. Felieissimns denounced the conduct of 
Cyprian as an encroachment upon his rights as dea- 
con, among which belonged, in the Church of Africa, 
the administration of the treasury of the Church; and 
he even went so far as to exclude from the communion 
of his church those who should appear before the epis- 
copal commission. lie was joined in his opposition by 
five nresbyters and a number of confessors, and his 
church became the centre of all the lapsi who wished 
to have their cases decided before the return of Cypri- 
an. After the return of Cyprian to Carthage in 253, 
a synod regulated the affair of the lapsi, and excluded 
Felieissimns and the presbyters acting with him from 
the Church. Felicissimus, however, not only persist- 
ed in his opposition, but his party, strengthened by 
the accession of several African bishops, elected Fortu- 
natus, one of the five presbyters siding with Felicissi- 
mus, bishop of Carthage, and sent Felieissimns him- 
self to Rome — where, in the mean while, the Novatian 
controversy had broken out — for the purpose of gain- 
ing the Roman bishop Cornelius over to their side. 
The mission was, however, unsuccessful, and the 
schism of Felieissimns seems soon after to have be- 
come extinct. — Herzog, Peal-Eneyklop. iv, 349 ; Schaff, 
Church History. (A. J. S.) 

Pelicitas, a saint of the Roman calendar, supposed 
to have suffered martyrdom A.D. 164. According to 
the legend, she was a woman of high birth, who em- 
braced Christianity and brought up her seven sons in 
the faith. She was denounced to Marcus Aurelius, 
who ordered an inquiry. The prefect ordered her to 
sacrifice to the gods ; she refused, as did her children. 
After vain efforts to break their constancy, the prefect 
reported the case anew to the emperor, who ordered a 
trial before special judges. The lady and her children 
were all put to death. The story is plainly of com- 
paratively modern invention. Felicitas is commem- 
orated in the Church of Rome Nov. 13, and her seven 
sons July 1G. The bones of two of her sons are said 
to be preserved in German}'’! — Holland, Acta Sanctor. 
July 10; Butler, Lives of Saints , July 10. 

Felicitas, an African slave who suffered martyr- 
dom at Carthage along with Rerpetua (q. v.), in the 
time of Severus, A.D. 202. They are both said by 
Basnage to have been Montanists, but cardinal Orsi 
seems to have disproved this in his Dissert. Apol. pro 
SS. Perpctua et Felicitate. They were arrested at Car- 
thage while still catechumens, and were baptized in 
prison. All efforts were tried in vain to induce them 
to abandon their faith ; they were condemned to be 
thrown to the wild beasts at a festival in honor of the 
anniversary of Geta’s nomination (. Annales Ceesaris). 
After this judgment they were remanded to prison to 
await the fatal day. For the account of rerpetua, sec 
Perpetua. “As to Felicitas, on her return to the 
dungeon she was seized with the pains of labor. The 
jailer said to her, ‘ If thy present sufferings are so 
great, what wilt thou do when thou art thrown to the 
wild beasts ? This thou didst not consider when thou 
refusedst to 8300600 / She answered, ‘ I note suffer 
myself all that 1 suffer ; but then there will be another 
who shall suffer for me. because I also will suffer for 
him.’ A custom which had come down from the times 
of human sacrifices, under the bloody Baal-worship of 
the Carthaginians, still prevailed, of dressing those 
criminals who were condemned to die by wild beasts 
in priestly raiment. It was therefore proposed, in the 
present case, that the men should be clothed as the 
priests of Saturn, and the women as the priestesses of 
Ceres. Nobly did their free, Christian spirit protest 
against such a proceeding. ‘We have come here,’ 


>2 

said they, ‘ of our own will, that we may not suffer our 
freedom to be taken from us. We have given up our 
lives that we may not be forced to such abomina- 
tions.’ The pagans themselves acknowledged the jus- 
tice of their demand, and yielded. After they had been 
torn by the wild beasts, and were about to receive the 
merciful stroke which was to end their sufferings, they 
took leave of each other for the last time with the mu- 
tual kiss of Christian love.” Felicitas is commemo- 
rated in the Church of Rome March 7.— -Neander, Ch. 
Hist. Torrev, i, 123 ; Butler, Lives of Saints, March 7. 

Felix [happy, Gnecized <b//Xi£, Acts xxiii-xxiv ; 
in Tacitus, llist. v, 9, called Antonius Felix ; in Sui- 
das, Claudius Felix; in Josephus and Acts, simply 
Felix: so also in Tacitus, Ann. xii, 54), the Roman 
procurator of Judasa, before whom Raul so “reasoned 
of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come,” 
that the judge trembled, saying, “Go thy way for this 
time; when I have a convenient season I will call for 
thee” (Acts xxiv, 25 ; sec Abieht, De Claudio Felice , 
Viteb. 1732; Eckhard, Paulli oratio ad Felicem , Isen. 
1779). The context states that Felix had expected a 
bribe from Raul ; and, in order to procure this bribe, 
he appears to have had several interview’s with the 
apostle. The depravity which such an expectation 
implies is in agreement with the idea which the histor- 
ical fragments preserved respecting Felix would lead 
the student to form of the man. 

The year in which Felix entered on his office cannot 
be strictly determined. He was appointed by the em- 
peror Claudius, whose freedman he was, on the ban- 
ishment of Ventidius Cumanus, probably A.D. 53. 
Tacitus (/1mm. xii, 54) states that Felix and Cumanus 
were joint procurators, Cumanus having Galilee, and 
Felix Samaria. In this account Tacitus is directly at 
issue with Josephus (Ant. xx, 6, 2), and is generally 
supposed to be in error ; but his account is very cir- 
cumstantial, and by adopting it we should gain great- 
er justification for the expression of Paul (Acts xxiv, 
10) that Felix had been judge of the nation “ for many 
years.” Those words, however, must not even thus 
be closely pressed ; for Cumanus himself only went to 
Judaea in the eighth year of Claudius (Josephus, Ant. 
xx, 5, 2). From the -words of Josephus (Ant. xx, 7, 
1), it appears that his appointment took place before 
the twelfth year of the emperor Claudius. Eusebius 
fixes the time of his actually undertaking his duties 
in the eleventh year of that monarch. The question 
is fully discussed under Chronology, vol. ii, 311, 312. 

Felix was a remarkable instance of the elevation to 
distinguished station of persons born and bred in the 
low-est condition. Originally a slave, he rose to lit- 
tle less than kingly power. For some unknown, but 
probably not very creditable services, he was manu- 
mitted by Claudius Cajsar (Sueton. Claudius , 28; Tac- 
itus, Hist, v, 9), on which account he is said to have 
taken the pramomen of Claudius. In Tacitus, how- 
ever (l. c.), he is surnamed Antonius, probably because 
lie was also a freedman of Antonia, the emperor's 
mother. Felix was the brother of Claudius’s power- 
ful freedman Pallas (Josephus, War, ii, 12, 8; Ant. xx, 
7, 3) ; and it was to the circumstance of Pallas’s influ- 
ence surviving his master’s death (Tacitus, Ann. xiv, 
G5) that Felix was retained in his proeuratorsliip by 
Nero. In speaking of Pallas in conjunction with an- 
other freedman, namely, Narcissus, the imperial pri- 
vate secretary, Suetonius ( Claudius , 28) says that the 
emperor was eager in heaping upon them the highest 
honors that a subject could enjoy, and suffered them 
to carry on a system of plunder and gain to such an 
extent that, on complaining of the poverty of his ex- 
chequer, some one had the boldness to remark that he 
would abound in wealth if he were taken into partner- 
ship by his two favorite freedmen. 

The character which the ancients have left of Felix 
is of a very dark complexion. Suetonius speaks of 
the military honors which the emperor loaded him 


FELIX 


523 


FELIX 


with, and specifies his appointment as governor of the 
province of Judaea ( Claudius , 28), adding an innuendo, 
which loses nothing by its brevity, namely, that he was 
the husband of three queens or royal ladies (“trium 
reginarum marituru”). Tacitus, in his History (v, 9), 
declares that, during his governorship in Judaea, he in- 
dulged in all kinds of cruelty and hut, exercising re- 
gal power with the disposition of a slave ; and, in his 
Annals (xii, 51), he represents Felix as considering 
himself licensed to commit any crime, relying on the 
influence which he possessed at court. The country 
was ready for rebellion, and the unsuitable remedies 
which Felix applied served only to inflame the pas- 
sions and to incite to crime. The contempt which he 
and Cumanus (who, according to Tacitus, governed 
Galilee while Felix ruled Samaria; but see Josephus, 
Ant. xx, 7, 1) excited in the minds of the people, en- 
couraged them to give free scope to the passions which 
arose from the old enmity between the Jews and Sa- 
maritans, while the two wily and base procurators 
were enriched by booty as if it had been spoils of war. 
This so far was a pleasant game to these men, but in 
the prosecution of it Roman soldiers lost their lives, 
and but for the intervention of Quadratus, governor 
of Syria, a rebellion would have been inevitable. A 
court-martial was held to inquire into the causes of 
this disaffection, when Felix, one of the accused, was 
seen by the injured Jews among the judges, and even 
seated on the judgment-seat, placed there by the presi- 
dent Quadratus expressly to outface and deter the ac- 
cusers and witnesses. Josephus (Ant. xx, 8, 5) re- 
ports that under Felix the affairs of the country grew 
worse and worse. The land was filled with robbers 
and impostors who deluded the multitude. Felix used 
his power to repress these disorders to little purpose, 
since his own example gave no sanction to justice. 
Thus, having got one Dineas, leader of a band of as- 
sassins, into his hands by a promise of impunity, he 
sent him to Rome to receive his punishment. Having 
a grudge against Jonathan, the high-priest, who had 
expostulated with him on his misrule, he made use of 
Doras, an intimate friend of Jonathan, in order to get 
him assassinated by a gang of villains, who joined the 
crowds that were going up to the Temple worship — a 
crime which led subsequently to countless evils, by 
the encouragement which it gave to the Sicarii, or 
leagued assassins of the day, to whose excesses Jo- 
sephus ascribes, under Providence, the overthrow of 
the Jewish state. Among other crimes, some of these' 
villains misled the people under the promise of per- 
forming miracles, and were punished by Felix. An 
Egyptian impostor, who escaped himself, was the occa- 
sion of the. loss of life to four hundred followers, and 
of the loss of liberty to two hundred more, thus se- 
verely dealt with by Felix (Josephus, Ant. xx, 8, 6; 
lFar, ii, 13, 5; comp. Acts xxi,38). A serious misun- 
derstanding having arisen between the Jewish and 
the Syrian inhabitants ofCajsarea, Felix employed his 
troops, and slew and plundered till prevailed on to de- 
sist. His cruelty in this affair brought on him, after 
he was superseded by Festus, an accusation at Rome, 
which, however, he was enabled to render nugatory 
by the influence which his brother Pallas had, and ex- 
ercised to the utmost, with the emperor Nero. Jose- 
phus, in his Life (§ 3), reports that, “ at the time when 
Felix was procurator of Jndrea, there were certain 
priests of my acquaintance, and very excellent persons 
they were, whom, on a small and trifling occasion, he 
had put into bonds and sent to Rome to plead their 
cause before Caisar.” At the end of a two years’ term 
Porcius Festus was appointed to supersede Felix, who, 
on his return to Rome, was accused by the Jews in 
Ciusarea, as above noticed (/I nt. xx, 8, 9). This was in 
A.D. 55 (not in the year GO, as Anger, De tempornm in 
Act. Apost. ratione , p. 100; Wieseler, Chronologic der 
Apostelgeschichte , p. 66-82). 

While in his office, being inflamed by a passion for 


the beautiful Drusilla, a daughter of king Herod Agrip- 
pa, who was married to Azizus, king of Emesa, he em- 
ployed one Simon, a magician, to use his arts in order 
to persuade her to forsake her husband and marry 
him, promising that if she would comply with his suit 
he would make her a happy woman. Drusilla, partly 
impelled by a desire to avoid the envy of her sister 
Berenice, was prevailed on to transgress the laws of 
her forefathers, and consented to a union with Felix. 
In this marriage a son was born, Mho was named 
Agrippa : both mother and son perished in an eruption 
of INlount Vesuvius, which took place in the days of 
Titus Caesar (Josephus, A nt. xx, 7, 2). With this adul- 
teress M r as Felix seated when Paul reasoned before the 
judge, as already stated (Acts xxiv, 24). Another 
Drusilla is mentioned by Tacitus as being the wife 
(the first wdfe) of Felix. This woman was niece of 
Cleopatra and Antony. See Drusilla. By this mar- 
riage Felix M r as connected with Claudius. Of his 
third wife nothing is known. (See Salden, De Felice 
et Drusilla , Amst. 1G84). 

Paul, being apprehended in Jerusalem, w T as sent by 
a letter from Claudius Lysias to Felix at Caesarea, 
where he M T as at first confined in Herod’s judgment- 
hall till his accusers came. They arrived. Tertullus 
appeared as their spokesman, and had the audacity, in 
order to conciliate the good-will of Felix, to express 
gratitude on the part of the JeM’S, “seeing that by 
thee we enjoy great quietness, and that very worthy 
deeds are done unto this nation by thy providence” 
(Acts xxiii, xxiv). Paul pleaded his cause in a wor- 
thy speech ; and Felix, consigning the apostle to the 
custody of a centurion, ordered that he should have 
such liberty as the circumstances admitted, with per- 
mission that his acquaintance might see him and min- 
ister to his wants. This imprisonment the apostle 
suffered for a short period (not two years, as ordinari- 
ly supposed, that expression having reference to Fe- 
lix’s whole term of sole office), being left bound when 
Felix gave place to Festus (q. v.), as that unjust judge 
“-was willing,” not to do M’hat n T as right, but “to 
show the Jev T s a pleasure” (Walch, De Felice procura- 
tor , Jena, 1747; also in his Dissettt. in Act. iii, 29; 
Smith’s Dictionanj of Class. Blog. s. v.). — Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. 

Felix, Martyr, and his companion Regula, M'ere, 
according to tradition, the first Christian missionaries 
in the city of Zurich, "which, before the Reformation, 
venerated them as patrons, and still has their names 
in the town seals. They are said to have been exe- 
cuted by order of the emperor Maximian. Nothing 
certain is known about their history. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. iv, 351. (A. J. S.) 

Felix of Nola was a native and presbyter of 
Nola. After his property had been confiscated during 
the persecution of Deeius, he supported himself by cul- 
tivating a garden and some rented land. According 
to a legend, he concealed himself during the persecu- 
tion in the fissures of an old building, and a spider 
saved him from the search of the messengers by draw- 
ing her M T eb over him. His sufferings and alleged 
miracles were celebrated by Paulinas, bishop of Nola, 
and many pilgrims visited his grave. — Herzog, Real- 
Encylclop. iv, 355. (A. J. S.) 

Felix the Manich.ean was a contemporary of Au- 
gustine. lie was an elder or elect of the Maniclneans, 
and had gone to Hippo to gain converts for his sect. 
Augustine had a discussion with him in the church of 
Hippo in the presence of the congregation which lasted 
two days. The proceedings were taken down by no- 
taries, and are still extant (vol. viii of the Benedictine 
edition of Augustine’s works : De actis cum Felice Ma- 
nickceo , libri ii). On the day before the disputation, 
Felix declared his readiness to be burned with his 
books if anything wrong could be found in them ; but 
during the disputation he is reported to have been 


FELIX 


524 


FELIX 


timid, weak, evasive, and it was thought that he wish- 
ed to flee. Before the disputation began, his hooks 
were taken from him, and placed under the public 
seal. Felix undertook to prove that Mani was the 
Paraclete who had been promised by Christ, and he 
used as an argument the information given by Mani 
on the construction of the world, on which nothing 
could be found in Paul and the writings of the other 
a|iostles. Augustine replied that the Paraclete had 
the mission to teach the truths of religion, but not to 
expound mathematics. The result of the disputation 
was that Felix declared himself refuted, and publicly 
renounced and cursed Mani. The protocol of the dis- 
putation was signed by both Augustine and Felix. 
Posidius, in the Life of Augustine, also states that Fe- 
lix, after the third meeting, acknowledged his error, 
and accepted the faith of the Church. — Herzog, lieal- 
EncykL iv, 350. (A. J. S.) 

Felix (Pratensis'), an eminent Jewish scholar of the 
16th century, was born in Prato, Tuscany. He was 
the son of a rabbi, who taught him the Oriental lan- 
guages. He travelled in Italy after the death of his 
father, and, becoming convinced of the truth of Chris- 
tianity, was baptized, and shortly after entered the or- 
der of St. Augustine. The date of his profession of 
Christianity is uncertain, but it probably took place be- 
fore 1506. He translated the Psalms into Latin, ded- 
icating the work to Leo X, and received authority from 
the pope to translate the other books of the Okl Testa- 
ment. He revised the text of the two first Hebrew 
editions of the Bible published by Bomberg, carefully 
correcting the proofs himself. lie died in 1557. His 
works are, 1 . Psalierium ex Jiebrao ad verbum fere fra - 
latum adjectis notationibus (Venice, 1515, 4to) : this 
version lias been inserted in the Psalterium Sextuplex 
(Lyons, 1530, 8vo) : — 2. Biblia sacra hebrcea , cum ntra - 
que masord ct targum , item cum Commentariis rabbino- 
runi ; curd ct studio Felicis Pratensis , cum prerfaiione 
latina Leoni X nuncupatd (Venice, 1518, 4 vols. fol.). 
There are said to be versions of Job and other books 
of the Bible by Felix, but they have never been pub- 
lished. — Biographic Universelle , xiv, 273. (J. H. AY.) 

Felix, bishop of Urgel (Urgelis), in Spain, 9th cen- 
tury. Of bis early life little is known. He became 
bishop of Urgel in 791. Elipandus of Toledo, who 
bad been bis pupil, consulted him as to the doctrine 
of the person of Christ, with regard to which he seems 
to have already embraced the so-called Adoption doc- 
trine. Sec Elipandus. “The answer of Felix was 
that Christ, with respect to his divine nature, was tru- 
ly 1 ' and properly the .Son of God, begotten of the Father, 
and hence he was the true God, together with the Fa- 
ther and the Holy Spirit, in the unity of the Godhead. 
But that, with respect to his humanity, Christ was the 
Son of God by adoption, born of the ATrgin bv the 
will of the Father, and thus he was nominally God. 
Hence, according to the opponents of the Felicians, it 
followed that there was a twofold Sonship in Christ, 
and that lie must consist cf two persons. The opin- 
ion of Felix was considered by the orthodox as noth- 
ing more than a development of the Ncstorian heresy. 
The doctrine of Felix was adopted by Elipandus, who, 
being the primate of Spain, propagated it through the 
different provinces of Spain, while Felix himself con- 
tributed to spread it throughout Xarbonnc and other 
parts of Gaul"’ (Carwitben, Church J/istorg, p. 179). 
It appears to be clear that Felix had read some of the 
writings of Theodore of Mopsuostia (q. v.), in which a 
similar doctrine is taught. Felix seems, moreover, to 
have engaged in controversy with the Mohammedans, 
and, according to Alenin, he wrote a Dialogue against 
them ; and it is not unlikely that he was led to the 
Adoptian view by bis desire to render lhe t doctrine of 
the Incarnation less offensive to the Mohammedans. 
Alcuin (q. v.) entered into controversy with Felix, j 
and wc learn from him a large part of what is known 


about the controversy (Alcuin, Opera , ii, 760 sq.). 
Neander gives the following statement: “Felix dis- 
tinguished between how far Christ was the Son of 
God aud God according to nature (natura, genere'), and 
how far lie w as so by virtue of grace, by an act of the 
divine will ( gratia , voluniate ), by the divine choice 
and good pleasure (elcctione, placiio) • and the name 
Son of God was given to him only in consequeuce of 
connection with God (: nuncupative ) ; aud hence the ex- 
pressions for this distinction, secundum naturam and 
secundum adoptionem. Felix appealed to the fact that, 
though the name of Son by adoption (tV vioOtaiac) is 
not applied in the Bible to Christ, yet there are other 
designations which express the same idea. He ad- 
duces John x, 34, when Jesus disputed with the Jews 
(par dv6pu)7rov), and referred to the passage in the 
Old Testament, in which men are called Elohim , 
where Christ placed himself as a man in the category 
of those w ho were called ‘ gods’ -nuncupative, and not 
in a strict sense. Then as to the passage, ‘ None is 
good save one, that is God,’ from this it appears that 
as man he was not to be called good in the same sense 
as God, and that only the divine nature in him was 
the source of goodness. He would allow an inter- 
change of the divine and human predicates only in the 
same manner as Theodore ; it eoukl not be made with- 
out limitation, but the different senses must be observed 
according as they were attributed to the divine or hu- 
man natures. He charged his opponents with so con- 
founding the two natures by their doctrine of the sin- 
gidaritas persona that they left no distinction between 
the suscipiens and the susceptum . Expressions that w'ere 
then in common use, such as God was born , and died, 
never occur in .Scripture, which also never says that 
the Son of God, hut that the Son of man was given for 
ns. On the latter point Alcuin could easily have con- 
futed Felix by other passages, hut both were wrong in 
not distinguishing the various Biblical applications of 
the term Son of God from the Church use of it, and in 
taking the idea everywhere in a Church sense. Like 
Theodore, Felix asserted Agnoetisin of Christ. It is 
also a point of resemblance between them that both 
sought for an analogy between the union of the man 
Christ with the divine Being and the relation of be- 
lievers to God. Felix says that Christ in an improper 
sense ( nuncupative ) was called the Son of God con- 
jointly with all who are not God according to their 
nature, hut by the grace of God in Christ have been 
taken into communion with God ( deficaii ). In this 
order also the Son of God is, in respect of his human- 
ity, both according to nature and grace. He main- 
tained that, as far as Christ as man is reckoned among 
the sons of God, all believers are his members; con- 
sidered according to his divine nature, believers are 
the temple in which he dwells. lie did not wish by 
that to deny the specific difference between Christ 
and believers ; whatever resemblance existed between 
them belonged to him in a far higher sense ; he w'as 
united to God by generation, and was the medium of 
the communion of the rest with God. Felix also per- 
fectly agreed with Theodore in the thought that the 
communion with God into which Christ was received 
as a man might be represented as a revelation of the 
divine being according to the measure of the various 
stages of the development of his human nature, and 
thus supposed various degrees of it up to the highest 
revelation after the glorification of Christ. It might 
be peculiarly offensive that lie should compare the 
baptism of Christ with the regeneration of believers ; 
hut ho certainly did not mean to say that Christ thus 
became partaker of communion with the divine nature, 
but only to point out an analogy so far, as baptism 
marked a distinct stage in Christ’s life, after which 
the operation of the divine life in him W'as peculiarly 
conspicuous. It is therefore evident that the doctrine 
of Felix w'as altogether that of Theodore, excepting 
that the latter could express himself more, freely in an 


FELIX 


525 


FELL 


age when the doctrines of the Church were less rigor- 
ously defined, while Felix was obliged to use a termin- 
ology which was opposed to his own system. The 
great importance of the antagonism in which he stood 
to the Church doctrine is likewise manifest ; it in- 
cluded not merely Christology, but also Anthropology ; 
for the doctrine of the revelation of the Divine Being 
in Christ, conditioned by various stages of develop- 
ment, was connected with one of special importance — 
the principle of free self-determination. It is uncer- 
tain how far Felix consciously developed his princi- 
ples ; but there is no question that these were through- 
out contradictor}" to the prevalent Augustinian doc- 
trine. As Felix lived in the Frankish territory, the 
Frankish Church was drawn into the controversy. In 
A. I). 792, Charlemagne convoked an assembly at Rat- 
isbon, at which Felix appeared, and was induced to 
recant. He was then sent to Rome, where he made 
similar explanations (Alcuinus adv. Ellpandum , i, c. 
16; Mansi, Condi, xiii, 1031). Blit, on being permit- 
ted to return home, he repented of the steps lie had 
taken, took refuge in Saracenic Spain, and again pro- 
mulgated his doctrine. Alenin, who had been sum- 
moned to take a part in the controversy, endeavored 
to win him over by a friendly epistle ; but Felix re- 
garded the subject of the controversy as too important, 
and thus it was carried on in his writings (Alcuini 
LibeHus adv. Haresin Felicis , Opp. A Ic. i, pars ii, 759). 
The Spanish bishops interceded for Felix with the 
emperor, and applied for a new investigation (Alenin, 
Opera, ii, 5G7). In consequence, Charles called a sec- 
ond synod at Frankfort-on-thc-Maine in A.D. 794, 
which again decided against Felix {Mansi, xiii, 8G3); 
and since the Adoptianists had spread themselves even 
as far as France, the emperor sent a commission of 
three persons into those parts in order to oppose them. 
Felix came with them, and was prevailed upon to ap- 
pear before the synod at Aix-la-Chapelle (Aix), A.D. 
799. After Alcuin had disputed with him for a long 
time, Felix declared himself to be convinced. He 
made a recantation in Spain ; yet he was not altogether 
trusted, and was placed under the oversight of Leidrad, 
bishop of Lyons, lie could not at once give up a dog- 
matic tendency which was so deeply rooted ; he still 
was always inclined to Agnoetism, and after his death 
a series of questions was found which showed that he 
firmly adhered to his fundamental views” {Hist, of 
Dogmas, tr. by Ryland, p. 444 sq.). Felix was deposed 
A.D. 799, and died about A.D. 818. His writings, 
whether in apology or retractation of his views, re- 
main only in fragments ; but his Profession of Faith, 
made at Aix-la-Chapelle in 799, is given in Alcuini 
Opera (Paris, 1617, fob); in Mansi, Condi. xiii, 1035; 
in Labbe, Condi, p. 1171. See Dupin, Eecles. Writers , 
cent, viii ; Neander, Ch. History , iii, 156, 158; Mos- 
heim, Ch. History, cent, viii, ch. v, § 3; Hagenbach, 
History of Doctrines , § 179 ; Dorner, Doctrine of the 
Person of Christ , Edinb. transl. div. ii, vol. i, 248 sq. 
See Adoptians; Christology. 

Felix I, bishop of Rome. According to the Acta 
Sanctorum, he succeeded Dionysius in 2G9, and died in 
274. lie was declared a “martyr” by the Council of 
Ephesus on “account of his sufferings for Christ,” but 
he did not die by violence. There is extant a letter 
of his against the Sabellians and Paul of Samosata. 
Other writings, not believed to be his, are to be found 
in Migne, Patrolog. Lat. vol. v, and in Gallnnd, Bibl. 
Pat. iii, 542. — Eusebius, Hist. Eccl.x ii, 30; Baronins, 
A males, p. 272-275 ; Bower, History of the Popes, i, 78. 

Felix II, Anti-pope, was placed in the episcopal 
chair of Rome A.D. 355, by the Arian emperor Constan- 
tius, in place of Liberius (q. v.), who was exiled by 
the emperor. The clergy refused to acknowledge 
Felix, and Constantius recalled Liberius to hold the 
see conjointly with Felix ; but when the decree was 
read in the circus, the people rejected it with the cry, 


“ One God, one Christ, one bishop.” But Sozomen 
says that Felix was an adherent of the Nicene faith, 
and a “blameless” man. Nevertheless, Felix had to 
retire from Rome, and is said to have died A.D. 3G5 ; 
but the accounts vary very much. Ilis name is found 
in the Roman Martyrology, July 29; but Baronius 
decides against his claims {Annal. A.D. 357). Never- 
theless, Gregory XIII confirmed his saintship in 1582. 
— Sozomen, Hist. Eccl. iv, 11; Tillemont, Mem. pour 
Servir , etc., vol. vi ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , vol. 
xvii; Bower, History of the Popes , i, 134. See Libe- 
rius. 

Felix III (II?) was elected successor of Simpli- 
cius A.D. 483, under the influence of the Gothic em- 
peror Odoaeer. He and Acaeius, bishop of Constanti- 
nople, mutually excommunicated each other, and thus 
gave occasion to the first schism between the Greek 
and Latin churches. He died Feb. 24 or 25, 492. He 
is commemorated by the Roman Church as a saint 
(Feb. 25), — Mosheim, Ch. Hist. cent, v, pt. ii, ch. v, § 
18, 21 ; Bower, History of the Pof)es, ii, 193 sq. See 

MOXOPII YSITES. 

Felix (III or) IV, Pope, succeeded John I A.D. 
526, by the influence of the Arian emperor Theodoric. 
Little is known of him, but that little is creditable. 
He died 530. — Baronius, A nnal. cent.vi; Dupin, Eccles. 
Writers , cent. vi. 

Felix V, Amadeus (of Savoy), Pope or Anti-pope, 
was bom Sept. 4, 1383. He succeeded his father, 
Amadeus VII, in the earldom of Savoy, which the 
emperor Sigismund raised into a duchy. In his eight- 
eenth year he was married to Maria of Burgundy, and 
in those times of bloody excess was accounted a wise 
and just prince. He participated through an envoy 
in the Council of Constance, and in 1422 shared in the 
crusade against the Hussites. His naturally strong 
religious tendencies having been strengthened by his 
wife’s death, he built a hermitage at Ripaille, on Lake 
Leman, in 1434, and retired to it with the intention of 
spending the rest of his days in retirement. After the 
councils of Pisa and Constance had deposed Eugeni us 
IV, another was assembled at Basle, and Amadeus 
was elected pope. He accepted the nomination, adopt- 
ed the title of Felix V, and as such entered Rome June 
24, 1440. Finally he made terms with Nicolas V, Eu- 
genius TV’s successor, and, having thus ended the 
schism, Felix V retired to his hermitage at Ripaille, 
with the rank of cardinal-legate and permanent vicar- 
general of the papal see in Savoy, Basle, Strasburg, 
etc. He died at Geneva January 7, 1451. See Gui- 
ehenon, Ilistoire generate de la roy. maison de Savoye 
(1G60); iEn. Sylvii Commentar . de gestis Condi. (Basle. 
1577). See Basle, Council of. 

Fell, John, D.D., bishop of Oxford, a learned the- 
ologian, was born at Longwortli, in Berks, June 23, 
1G25, and graduated M.A. in 1643. As a devoted 
friend of the Stuarts, for whom he had been in arms, 
he was deprived of his studentship in Christ Church 
by the parliamentary visitors, and during the Protec- 
torate he continued in obscurity. After the Restora- 
tion he obtained a stall at Chichester, whence he was 
preferred to a more valuable one at Christ Church, 
and soon after became dean of Christ Church. In 
1666 he became vice-chancellor of the university, and 
in 167G bishop of Oxford, retaining his deanery. He 
was a great benefactor to the university, and as a 
prelate was distinguished by learning and munifi- 
cence; but his conduct in the matter of John Locke’s 
illegal removal from his studentship in Christ Church 
is a great stain upon his memory (see Edinburgh Re- 
view, 1829, 1, 16). Among his writings are a Latin 
translation of Wood’s History and Antiquities of Ox- 
ford (2 vols. fol.) : — A Lfe of Dr. Hammond (1660, 
prefixed to Hammond’s li r or£s): — St. Clement’s Two 
Epistles to the Corinthians (Oxford, 1G69, 12mo, Gr. and 
Lat.) : — A rtis Logicce Compendium : — Epistle of Barna- 


FELL 


526 


FELLOWSHIP 


bas (Oxford, 1685, 12mo) : — Cypriani Opera (Oxford, 
1G77): — also Atheuagoras, Hermes, and Justin’s Apo- 
logia: — Novi Testament i Libri Omnes; accesserunt Pa- 
ralltla Script, loc. necnon varice lectiones , etc. (London, 
1675; Leips. 1697, and again, edited by A. II. Franeke, 
170*2; Oxford, ed. by Gregory, fol. 1703; Oxford, ed. 
by Jacobson, 1852, 8vo) : — Paraphrase and Annotations 
npon all the Epistles of St. Paul (Lond. 1675, 8vo ; but 
from the edition of 1708 it appears that this book was 
the work of A. Woodhead, R. Allestrce, and 0. Walker, 
“corrected and improved” by Fell). Ilis edition of 
the N. T. gave a new impulse to critical science, which 
lie farther aided by the assistance he furnished, in 
money and otherwise, to the critical labors of John 
Mill (q. v.). Indeed, bishop Fell is said to have de- 
voted his “ whole substance” to works of piety and 
charity. He died July 10, 1686. — Hook, Eccles . Biog. 
v, 74 ; Wood, Athena: Oxonienses ; Biog. Britannica , s. v. 

Fell, John, an English Independent minister, was 
born at Coekermouth, 1735, and became pastor at 
Thaxted, Essex. His early opportunities were not 
great, but l> 3 r his talents and industry he became 
a very respectable scholar. He was made tutor in 
the ancient languages in the Dissenters’ seminary at 
Homerton. He is said to have “been dismissed from 
bis office there for reading newspapers on Sunday.” 
His friends got him an annuity of <£100, and he was 
“asked to deliver lectures on the Evidences at the 
Scots’ Church, London Wall.” He had only deliv- 
ered four when he died, Sept. 6, 1797. He published 
(in controversy with Dr. Hugh Farmer, q. v.) Demo- 
niacs , an Inquiry into the Heathen and Scripture Doc- 
trine of Demons (London, 1779, 8vo) : — The Idolatry of 
Greece and Rome distinguished from that of other Heathen 
Nations (Lond. 1785, 8vo). After his death Dr. Hunt- 
er published his Lectures on the Evkl nces (Lond. 1798, 
Svo). — Boguc and Bennett, Hist, of Dissenters , ii, 518 ; 
Kitto, Cyclopadia , s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliograph- 
ical i, 1125. 

Fellenberg, Piiilippe-Emanuel de, a philan- 
thropist and earnest laborer in the cause of education, 
was born at Berne, Switzerland, June 27, 1771. His 
father, who was a member of the government of Berne, 
laid the foundation of his intellectual culture, but he 
received his moral bent and self-sacrificing spirit from 
his mother, a great granddaughter of the Dutch admi- 
ral Van Tromp. After some time spent at the Uni- 
versity of Tubingen in the study of civil law, he de- 
voted himself especially to politics and philosophy. 
“ In order to acquaint himself with the moral state of 
his countrymen, he spent much of his time in travel- 
ling through Switzerland, France, and Germany, usu- 
ally on foot, with his knapsack on his back, residing 
in the villages and farm-houses, mingling in the la- 
bors and occupations, and partaking of the rude lodg- 
ing and fare of the peasants and mechanics, and often 
extending his journey to the adjacent countries.” On 
his return to Berne in 1798 he rendered important ser- 
vice as “commandant of the quarter” in the revolu- 
tionary troubles. In 1799 he purchased the estate 
called llofwyl , two leagues from Berne, and founded 
there, successively, a school of agriculture, a manu- 
factory of agricultural implements, schools for the 
poor, for the better classes, and a normal school. He 
devoted the remainder of his life to education witli 
great success, but not without opposition. He died 
Nov. 21, 1844. See Vericourt, Rapport sur les Insti- 
tuts de llofwyl ; Haain, Fellenberg' s Lcben und Wirken 
(Berne, 1845) ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene-rale , xvii, 307. 

Feller, Francis Xavier, a Flemish Jesuit, was 
born at Brussels Aug. 18, 1735, entered the order of 
Jesuits in 1754, and died May 23, 1802. He was a 
very learned and voluminous writer, his publications 
amounting to 120 volumes. Among them are Reply to 
Febronius [see HontheimJ, 1771 : — Observat . Philos, 
sur le Systeme de Newton (3d edit. Liege, 1778) : — Cate- 


chisme Philosophique — Evidences of Christianity (5th 
edit. Lyons, 1819, 2 vols. Svo) : — Dictiomiaire diistorique 
(Liege, 1818, 8 vols. ; 7th ed. Paris, 1829, 17 vols. 8vo): 
— Cours de Morale Chretienne (Paris, 1825, 5 vols. Svo). 
— Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xvii, 309. 

Felloes chishshukim' , joinings, 1 Kings 

vii, 33) probably denotes rather the spokes that connect 
the rim with the hub of a wheel, being a kindred term 
with that used to denote the coupling-rods of the taber- 
nacle (Exod. xxvii, 10). See Chariot. 

Fellow, besides its contemptuous use (as a ren- 
dering of a man , etc.), and its frequent employ- 

ment (usually as a rendering of a friend or equal), 
in the sense of companion , stands in one remarkable 
passage (Zech. xiii, 7) as the rendering of 
amith', society, in the phrase WT?:? man of my 
association , i. e. my associate ; corresponding with 
my shepherd in the parallel member, and referred to 
himself by our Saviour (Matt, xxvi, 31) as the great 
Pastor and Sacrifice for his people ; not so much in the 
sense of simple equality of nature with the Father, as 
of copartnership with him in the great work of earing 
for and redeeming mankind. See Neighbor. 

Fellow of a College. See Fellowship. 

Fellowes, Robert, was born in Norfolk, Eng- 
land, in 1770 ; studied at St. Mary’s Hall, Oxford, 
took holy orders in 1795, and died in 1847. His theo- 
logical speculations gradually led him to reject the 
doctrines of the Established Church, and to adopt the 
opinions found in his Religion of the Universe, publish- 
ed in London in 1836. He v r as an intimate friend of 
Dr. Tarr and baron Maseres, the latter of whom left 
him the greater part of his large fortune, to be dis- 
pensed in literal and benevolent enterprises. He 
was for some time editor of the London Critical Review. 
He was an early advocate of the establishment of the 
University of London, of which be was a liberal bene- 
factor. Among his works are Christian Philosophy 
(1798, 2d ed. 1799, 8vo) : — Supplement to do. : — Religion 
\ without Cant (1801, Svo) : — Guide to Immortality (1804, 

I 3 vols. Svo) : — Manual of Piety (1807, 8vo) : — A Body 
of Theology (1807, 2 vols. Svo). — Appleton, Cyclopadia, 
s. v. ; Allibone, Dictionary of Authors, i, 584. 

Fellowship in a college, a station of privilege 
and emolument enjoyed by one who is elected a mem- 
ber of any of those endowed societies which in the 
English universities are called colleges. The person 
so elected shares the benefits of the foundation in com- 
mon v r ith the other members, and from such partici- 
pation derives the name of fellow*, the Latin name for 
j which in the statutes of most of the colleges is socius. 
See University. In Oxford and Cambridge “ the 
j fellowships were either constituted by the original 
; founders of the colleges to w hich they belong, or they 
have been since endowed. In almost all cases their 
holders must have taken at least the first degree of 
bachelor of arts or student in the civil law*. One of 
the greatest changes introduced by the commissioners 
under the University Act of 1854 w*as the throwing 
open of the fellowships to all members of the univer- 
sity of requisite standing, by removing the old restric- 
tions by w*hich many of them were confined to found- 
er’s kin, or to the inhabitants of certain dioceses, arch- 
deaconries, or other districts. Fellowships vary great- 
13 * in value. Some of the best at Oxford, in good 
3 *ears, are said to rcacli £700 or even £800, whilst there 
are others which do not amount to <£100, and man 3 * at 
Cambridge which fall short of that sum. Being paid 
out of the college revenues which arise from land, 
they also van* from 3 *ear to 3 *ear, though from this ar- 
rangement, on the other hand, their general value with 
reference to the value of commodities is preserved 
nearty unchangeable, which w*ould not be the case if 
they consisted of a fixed pa 3 *ment in mone 3 *. The 


FELLOWSHIP 


527 


FENCED CITY 


senior fellowships are the most lucrative, a system of | 
promotion being established among their holders ; but 
they all confer on their holders the privilege of occu- | 
pying apartments in the college, and generally, in ad- 
dition, certain perquisites as to meals or commons. 
Many fellowships are tenable for life, but in general 
they are forfeited should the holder attain to certain 
preferments in the Church or at the bar, and some- 
times in the case of his succeeding to property above a 
certain amount. In general, also, they are forfeited 
by marriage, though this disability may now be re- 
moved by a special vote of the college, permitting the 
fellow to retain his fellowship notwithstanding his 
marriage. With the single exception of Downing Col- 
lege, Cambridge, in which the graduates of botli uni- 
versities are eligible, the fellowships are confined to 
the graduates of the university to which they belong” 
(Chambers, Encyclopaedia , s. v.). 

Fellowship ( 'icoiviovia ), “joint interest, or the 
having one common stock. The fellowship of the 
saints is twofold: 1. With God (1 John i, 3; 1 Cor. i, 
9; 1 Cor. xiii, 14) ; 2. With one another (1 John i, 7). 
Fellowship with God consists in knowledge of his will 
(Job xxii, 21 ; John xvii, 3) ; agreement in design 
(Amos iii, 2) ; mutual affection (Rom. viii, 38, 39) ; en- 
joyment of his presence (Psa. iv, 6) ; conformity to his 
image (1 John ii, 6; 1 John i, 6); participation of his 
felicity (1 John I, 3, 4 ; Eph. iii, 14-21 ; 2 Cor. xiii, 14). 
Fellowship of the saints may be considered as a fel- 
lowship of duties (Rom. xii, 6 ; 1 Cor. xii, 1 ; 1 Thess. 
v, 17, 18; James v, 16); of ordinances (Ileb. x, 24; 
Acts ii, 46) ; of graces, love, joy, etc. (Heb. x, 24 ; Mai. 
iii, 16; 2 Cor. viii, 4); of interest spiritual, and some- 
times temporal (Rom. xii, 4, 13 ; lleb. xiii, 16) ; of suf- 
ferings (Rom. xv, 1, 2; Gal. vi, 1,2; Rom. xii, 15); 
of eternal glory (Rev. vii, 9).” — Buck, Theol. Diction- 
ary, s. v. See Com si union. 

Feltham, Ow t ex, an English writer of the reign 
of James T, who was a native of Suffolk, lived many 
years in the earl of Thomond’s family, and died about 
1678. The work by which he is remembered is Re- 
solves, Divine , Political, and Moral, which has passed 
through many editions, and is still reprinted. 

Felton, Henry, D.D., a learned English divine, 
was born at London in 1679, and was educated at West- 
minster school, the Charter House, and Edmund Hall, 
Oxford. In 1711 he became rector of Whitewell, Der- 
byshire, and was finally appointed principal of St. Ed- 
mund’s Hall in 1722. lie died in 1740. His princi- 
pal works are, A Dissertation on reading the Classics 
(Lond. 3d ed. 1723, 12mo) : — The common People taught 
to defend their Communion with the Church of England 
(Oxf. 1727, 8vo ) : — The Christian Faith asserted against 
Deists , Arlans, and Socinians (Oxf. 1732, 8vo ): — The 
Resurrection of the same numerical Body asserted (Lon- 
don, 1733, 3d ed.8vo) : — Sermons on the Creation, Fall, 
and Redemption of Man, etc. (Lond. 1748, 8vo) : — Nine- 
teen Sermons , 1748 (posthumous). — Darling, Cyclop. 
Bibliographica, s. v. ; Rose, New Gen. Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Female Ecclesiastic. (For monographs, see 
Yolbeding, Index, p. 164.) See Ministry ; Deacon- 
ess; Agapet.e. 

Fence (Psa. Ixii, 3), gader', a wall (q. v.) 
rather than hedge (as elsewhere generally rendered). 
The Hebrews use two terms to denote a fence of dif- 
ferent kinds: *H3, gider ' , or gederah' , and 

rQVw'S, mesuJcah'. According to Yitringa, the latter 
denotes the outer thorny fence of the vineyard, and 
the former the inner wall of stones surrounding it. 
The chief use of the former was to keep off men, and 
of the latter to keep off beasts, not only from gardens, 
vineyards, etc., but also from the flocks at night (see 
Prov. xv, 19; xxiv, 31). See Hedge. From this 
root the Phoenicians called any enclosed place guddir , 
and particularly gave this name to their settlement in 


the south-western coast of Spain, which the Greeks 
from them called rdGetpa, the Romans Gades, and the 
moderns Cadiz. See Gederah. In Ezek. xiii, 5; 
xxii, 30, gader appears to denote the fortifications of a 
city; and in Psa. Ixii, 3, the wicked are compared to 
a tottering fence and bowing wall ; i. e. their destruc- 
tion comes suddenly upon them. Fenced cities (see 
below) were such as were fortified. — Calmet, s. v. 
See Agriculture. 

Fenced City metsurah', intrenched ; 2 

Chron. xi, 10, 23; xii, 4; xiv, 6; xxi, 3; rendered 
“stronghold,” 2 Chron. xi, 11 ; “fort,” Isa. xxix, 3; 
“munition,” ii, 1. mibtsar ' , a fortress, is also 

sometimes rendered “fenced” in connection with N'-V, 
a city, Numb, xxxii, 17, 36 ; Josh, x, 20 ; xix, 35 ; 1 
Sam. vi, 18 ; 2 Kings iii, 19 ; x, 2 ; xvii, 9 ; xviii, 8 ; 
2 Chron. xvii, 19; Jer. v, 17 ; Dan. xi, 15; elsewhere 
“stronghold,” etc.). The broad distinction between 
a city and a village in Biblical language consisted in 
the possession of walls. See City. The city had 
walls, the village was un walled, or had only a watch- 
man’s tower (P^O "2, 7TvpyoQ y turris custodum; comp. 
Gesen. Thes. p. 267), to which the villagers resorted in 
times of danger. A threefold distinction is thus ob- 
tained : 1. cities ; 2. nn walled villages ; 3. villages 
with castles or towers (1 Chron. xxvii, 25). The dis- 
trict east of the Jordan, forming the kingdoms of 
Moab and Bashan, is said to have abounded from very 
early times in castles and fortresses, such as were 
built by Uzziah to protect the cattle, and to repel the 
inroads of the neighboring tribes, besides unwalled 
towns (Ammian. Marc, xiv, 9; Dent, iii, 5; 2 Chron. 
xxvi, 10). Of these many remains are thought by 
Mr. Porter to exist at the present day ( Damascus , ii, 
197). The dangers to which unwalled villages are 
exposed from the marauding tribes of the desert, and 
also the fortifications by which the inhabitants some- 
times protect themselves, are illustrated by Sir J. Mal- 
colm (, Sketches of Persia, c. xiv, p. 148) and Frazer 
( Persia , p. 379, 380; comp. Judg. v, 7). Villages in 
the Haurau are sometimes enclosed by a wall, or, 
rather, the houses, being joined together, form a defence 
against Arab robbers, and the entrance is closed'by a 
gate (Burckhardt, Syria , p. 212). See Gate. 

A further characteristic of a city as a fortified place 
is found in the use of the word build, and also 
fortify ; so that to “ build” a city appears to be 
sometimes the same thing as to fortify it (comp. Gen. 
viii, 20, and 2 Chron. xvi, 6, with 2 Chron. xi, 5-10, 
and 1 Kings xv, 17). See Wall. 

The fortifications of the cities of Palestine, thus reg- 
ularly “fenced,” consisted of one or more walls crown- 
ed with battlemented parapets, HISQ, having towers 
at regular intervals (2 Chron. xxxii, 5 ; Jer. xxxi, 38), 
on which in later times engines of war were placed, 
and watch was kept by day and night in time of war 
(2 Chron. xxvi, 9, 15; Judg. ix, 45; 2 Kings ix, 17). 
Along the oldest of the three walls of Jerusalem there 
were ninety towers, in the second fourteen, and in the 
third sixty (Josephus, War, v, 4, 2). One such tower, 
that of Ilananeel, is repeatedly mentioned (Jer. xxxi, 
38 ; Zech. xiv, 10), as also others (Neh. iii, 1, 11, 27). 
The gateways of fortified towns were also fortified and 
elosed with strong doors (Nell, ii, 8; iii, 3, 6, etc.; 
Judg. xvi, 2, 3; 1 Sam. xxiii, 7 ; 2 Sam. xviii, 24, 33; 
2 Chron. xiv, 7 ; 1 Macc. xiii, 33 ; xv, 39). In advance 
of the wall there appears to have been sometimes an 
outwork (b^n, TZQOTtixaypd), in A. Yers. “ditch” (1 
Kings xxi, 23 ; 2 Sam. xx, 15 ; Gesenius, Thes. p. 454), 
which was perhaps either a palisade or wall lining the 
ditch, or a wall raised midway within the ditch itself. 
Both of these methods of strengthening fortified places, 
by hindering the near approaeh of machines, were 
usual in earlier Egyptian fortifications (Wilkinson, 


FENCED CITY 


528 


FENCED CITY 


&nc. Eg. i, 401), but. -would gencralfy be of less use in 
the hill forts of Palestine than in Egypt. In many 
towns there was a keep or citadel for a last resource to 
the defenders. Those remaining in the HaurAn and 
Leja are square. Such existed at Shechem and The- 
bez (Judg. ix, 4G, 51 ; viii, 17 ; 2 Kings ix, 17), and the 
great forts or towers of Psephixus, Hippicus, and espe- 
cially r Antonia, served a similar purpose, as well as 
that of overawing the town at Jerusalem. These forts 
were well furnished with cisterns (Acts xxi, 34; 2 
Macc. v, 5; Josephus, Ant. xviii, 4, 3; IFar, i, 5, 4; 
v, 4, 2; vi, 2, 1). At the time of the entrance of Is- 
rael into Canaan there were many fenced eities exist- 
ing, which first caused great alarm to the exploring 
party of searchers (Numb, xiii, 28), and afterwards 
gave much trouble to the people in subduing them. 
Many of these were refortified, or, as it is expressed, 
rebuilt by the Hebrews (Numb. xxxii,17, 34-42; Deut. 
iii, 4, 5; Josh, xi, 12, 13; Judg. i, 27-33), and many, 
especially those on the sea-eoast, remained for a long 
time in the possession of their inhabitants, who were 
enabled to preserve them by means of their strength 
in chariots (Josh, xiii, 3, G; xvii, 1G; Judg. i, 19; 2 
Kings xviii, 8 ; 2 Cliron. xxvi, G). The strength of 
Jerusalem was shown by the fact that that city, or at 
least the citadel, or “stronghold of Zion,” remained 
in the possession of the Jebusites until the time of Da- 
vid (2 Sam. v, G, 7 ; 1 Cliron. xi, 5). Among the kings 
of Israel and Judah several are mentioned as fortifiers 
or “ builders” of cities, e. g. Solomon (1 Kings ix, 17-19 ; 
2 Chron. viii, 4-G), Jeroboam I (1 Kings xii, 25), Ke- 
hoboam (2 Cliron. xi, 5, 12), Baaslia (1 Kings xv, 17), 
Omri (1 Kings xvi, 24), Hezekiah (2 Chron. xxxii, 5), 
Asa ( 2 Chron. xiv, G, 7), Jehoshaphat (2 Chron. xvii, 
12) but especially Uzziah (2 Kings xiv, 22; 2 Chron. 
xxvi, 2, 9, 15) ; and in the reign of Ahab the town of 
Jericho was rebuilt and fortified by a private individ- 
ual, Hiel of Bethel (1 Kings xvi, 34). Herod the Great 
was conspicuous in fortifying strong positions, as Ma- 
sada, Maehmrus, Herodium, besides his great works at 
Jerusalem (Josephus, 1 Par, vii, G, 1, 2 ; 8, 3 ; i, 21, 10 ; 
Ant . xiv, 13, 9). See Fort. 



The so-called Golden Gate of Jerusalem, showing supposed 
Remains of the old Jewish Wall. 

But the fortified places of Palestine served only in a 
few instances to check eflfectualfy the progress of an 
invading force, though many instances of determined 
and protracted resistance are on record, as of Samaria 
for three years (2 Kings xviii, 10), Jerusalem (2 Kings 
xxv, 3) for four months, and in later times of Jotapa- 
ta, Gamala, Machanrus, Masada, and, above all, Jeru- 
salem itself, the strength of whose defences drew forth 
the admiration of the conqueror Titus (Josephus, Bar, 
iii, G ; iv, 1 and 9; vii, G, 2-4 and 8 ; Robinson, i, 232). 
See Fortress. 


1 The earlier Egyptian fortifications consisted usually 
of a quadrangular and sometimes double wall of sun- 
dried brick, fifteen feet thick, and often fifty feet in 
height, with square towers at intervals, of the same 



Slab from ancient Thebes, representing a Phalanx of the Khe- 
ta (Canaanites) drawn up as a corps de teserve^ with the 
fortified town (fig. 1), surrounded by double Ditches, over 
which are Bridges (figs. 2 and 3). 

height as the walls, both crowned with a parapet, and 
a round-headed battlement in shape like a shield. A 
second lower wall with towers at the entrance -was 
added, distant thirteen or twenty feet from the main 
wall, and sometimes another was made of seventy or 
one hundred feet in length, projecting at right angles 
from the main wall, to enable the defenders to annoy 
the assailants in flank. The diteh was sometimes for- 
tified by a sort of tenaille in the ditch itself, or a rave- 
lin on its edge. In later times the practice of fortify- 
ing towns was laid aside, and the large temples, with 
their enclosures, were made to serve the purpose of 
forts (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 408, 409, abridgm.). 



Slab from Kouyunjlk, representing a double-walled city, with 
arched gateways and inclined approaches leading to them 
from the outer walls. Within are warriors and horses; 
outside the fortifications is a narrow stream or canal, plant- 
ed on both sides with trees, and flowing into a broad river, 
on which are large boats, holding several persons, and a raft 
of skins, bearing a man fishing, and two others seated before 
a pot or caldron. Along the banks, and apparently washed 
by the stream, is a wall with equidistant towers and battle- 
ments. 


FENCING THE TABLES 


529 


FENELON 


The fortifications of Ninfeveh, Babylon, Ecbatana, 
fnd of Tyre and Sidon are all mentioned either in the 
tanonical books or the Apocrypha. In the sculptures 
tf Nineveh representations are found of walled towns, 
tf which one is thought to represent Tyre, and all il- 
lustrate the mode of fortification adopted both by the 
Assyrians and their enemies (Jer. li, 30-32, 58 ; Amos 
j, 10 ; Zech. ix, 3 ; Ezek. xxvii. 11 ; Nab. iii, 14 ; Tobit 
i, 17 ; xiv, 14, 15 ; Judith i, 1, 4 ; Layard, Kin. ii, 275, 
279, 388, 395 ; Nin. and Bab . p. 231, 358 ; Mon. of A ’in. 
pt. ii, pi. 39, 43).— Smith, s. v. See Fortification. 

Fencing the Tables, a special address in the 
ministration of the Lord’s Supper among the Scotch 
Presbyterians. It is a lecture from the minister just 
before the distribution of the elements, pointing out 
the character of those who have and of those who have 
not a right to come to the Lord’s table. It was for- 
merly called “debarrings,” because in it the ministry 
debarred from the sacrament those who were not sup- 
posed to be worthy. 

Fenelon, Francois de Salignac de la Mothe, 
the most venerated name in the modern history of the 
Homan Catholic Church, was born Aug. G, 1651, at the 
eastle of Fenelon, in Perigord. He was a younger son 
of the marquis of Fenelon. He was carefully trained 
at home up to twelve years of age, when he was sent 
to the University of Cahors, and afterwards to the Col- 
lege of Plessis at Paris. His mind was very early 
turned towards the Church ; he preached his first ser- 
mon at fifteen. His theological studies were contin- 
ued at the Seminary of St. Sulpiee, then under the 
charge of the abbe Tronson, from whom he is believed 
to have imbibed the views of sanctity and of “disin- 
terested love’’ which were so strongly brought out in 
his later life. lie was ordained in 1675, and for three 
years was one of the priests of the parish of St. Sul- 
pice. Before his ordination he was strongly inclined 
to a foreign mission in the Levant or in Canada, but 
was kept back, it is said, by his uncle. The Corre- 
spondance Litteraire (July 25, 1863) gives a letter (from 
the archives of the French Ministry of Marine) in Col- 
bert’s handwriting, date of 1675, to Frontenac, governor 
of Canada, in which Louis XIV says, “ I have blamed 
the action of abbe Fenelon, and have ordered him not 
to return to Canada. But I ought to say to you that 1 
it was difficult to institute a criminal process against 
him, or to oblige the priests of the Seminary of St. 
Sulpiee, at Montreal, to testify against him ; and it 
was necessary to remit the case to his bishop or the 
grand vicar to punish him by ecclesiastical penalties, 
or to arrest him and send him back to France by the 
first ship.” According to this, Fenelon was actually 
in Canada (Am. Pres. Review, July, 1863). About the 
year 1678 he was appointed superior of the “A T oavelles 
Catholiques a society formed to educate and prose- 
lyte the children of Protestants. In this office he 
wrote his first work, De Veducation des files , which has 
been translated into English. He now became inti- 
mate with Bossuet, and under his guidance wrote Refu- 
tation du Systhme de J falebranche sur la nature el la 
grace; and also a treatise entitled Du Minister e des 
Pasteurs , in which heretics are atta<ked, though with 
moderation. Louis XIV, then about to revoke the 
edict of Nantes, employed Fenelon on a special mis- 
sion to the Protestants of Poitou. He accepted the 
charge on the condition that no means of conversion 
were to be used but persuasion. In 1689 lie was in- 
trusted with the education of the young duke of Bur- 
gundy. For his royal pupil he wrote Tilemaque. Af- 
ter five years’ service, he was elevated to the archbish- 
opric of Cambray in 1694. lie bad previously become 
intimate with Madame Guyon (q. v.), and his relations 
with her, and the complications which grew out of 
them, embittered more or le^s bis whole after life. 

This interesting history deserves to be recounted i 
3omewhat in detail. For the special history of Quiet- i 
HI.— L l 


ism, see the article under that title. Suffice it here 
to say, that the particular form of it taught by Ala- 
dame Guyon began to spread widely, and to alarm 
the leading clergy of the Church of France. Bos- 
suet was soon vigorously enlisted against her. He 
conducted the controversy against Madame Guy on 
with his usual skill. He, together with .the bishop of 
Chartres and abbe Tronson, were appointed commis- 
sioners to inquire into the doctrines advanced by Ma- 
dame Guyon. The conferences between the parties 
lasted for six months. Bossuet was little conversant 
at this time with mystical theology, and at his request 
Fenelon provided him with extracts from the chief of 
the mystical writers. The commissioners assembled 
at Issy, a retired country house belonging to the con- 
gregation of St. Sulpiee. They drew up thirty arti- 
cles, in which certain alterations were made by Fene- 
lon, by whom four were added. There was no men- 
tion in them of Madame Guyon or her doctrines, but 
they were supposed to express the doctrines of the es- 
tablished Church of France on the principal subjects 
in dispute. Their conclusion amounts to little more 
than this, that spiritualism, or an aim at the very high- 
est devotional feeling and communion with God, is not 
necessary to all, and is liable to abuse. Madame Guy- 
on immediately expressed her acquiescence in the ar- 
ticles of lssy. The whole question seemed now to be 
set at rest. Fenelon, having been nominated before 
these transactions to the archbishopric of Cambray, 
was duly consecrated, Bossuet, bishop of Meaux, offi- 
ciating, at his own earnest request. But Quietism 
continued to gain ground, and, to stop its progress, 
Bossuet published his Distraction sur les etats de l or- 
aison , for which he sought the approbation of the new 
archbishop; but Fenelon refused on the ground that 
the book absolutely denied the possibility of a pure 
disinterested love of God, and that its censures of 
Madame Gnvon were too severe. Thus began the 
bitter controversy between these two distinguished 
prelates, which for a long time disturbed the peace 
of the Chu ch of France. Fenelon published bis 
Explication des maximes des saints sur la vie intericure, 
but not before it was carefully examined by the 
cardinal de Noailles and abbe Tronson, two of the 
committee at Issy, and by M. Pirot, a theologian of 
eminence attached to Bossuet. These pronounced the 
Maximes to be a golden work. But no sooner was it 
published than an uproar was raised against it. In 
this controversy Louis XIV and Madame de Mainte- 
non took part against Fenelon. Bossuet had the sup- 
port of the court, and made vigorous use of all the 
weapons at his command. Fenelon defended himself 
with spirit. An appeal was made to Home. Bossuet 
artfully brought his influence with Louis to bear upon 
the court of Rome, and insinuated that Fenelon was, 
in his own diocese, considered a heretic, and that, as 
soon as Home should speak, Cambray, and all the I.ow 
Countries, would rise against him. The pope (Inno- 
cent XII) proceeded cautiously, and delayed his de- 
cision. In the mean time the friends of Fenelon were 
persecuted by the court, and he himself was suspended 
from bis office of preceptor to the royal dukes; but 
never, amidst all the indignities he suffered, did he lose 
the pious serenity of his mind. “Yet but a little 
while,” he says in one of his letters, “and the deceit- 
ful dream of this life will be over. We shall meet in 
the kingdom of truth, where there is no error, no di- 
vision, no scandal ; we shall breathe the pure love of 
God ; he will communicate to us his everlasting peace. 
In the mean while let us suffer; let us be trodden un- 
der foot ; let us not refuse disgrace. Jesus Christ was 
disgraced for us ; may our disgrace tend to bis glory.” 
At length the pope appointed a congregation of cardi- 
nals, who met twelve times without coming to any 
resolution ; be then appointed a new congregation of 
cardinals, who met fifty-two times, and extracted from 
Fenelon’s work several propositions, which they re- 


FENELOX 


530 


FEXELOX 


ported to the pope as censurable. Meantime Louis 
XI V was urging the pope to condemn Fenelon, al- 
though the pope himself was unwilling to come to a 
final decision. It was difficult to censure Fenelon 
without censuring some writers of acknowledged or- 
thodoxy. Holy, too, as Fenelon was, it was con- 
sidered that to submit to a decision against him was 
an act of such heroic humility that it could scarce- 
ly be expected, and that a schism might be caused 
equal to that of the Reformation. The pope inclined 
to issue a brief, stating the doctrine of the Church, and 
calling upon each party to abstain from future discus- 
sions. But even a pope may stand in awe of worldly 
consequences. Louis XIV, urged on by Bossuet, in- 
sisted upon the condemnation of Fenelon, and the pope 
at last (March 12, 1G99) issued a brief, by which twen- 
ty-three propositions were extracted from Fenelon’s 
work and condemned, “though the expressions used 
in the condemnation of them were so gentle, that it is 
evident that if the pope had feared God as much as he 
feared the French king, Fenelon would have escaped 
all censure. By this course, the friends of Fenelon 
were soothed and his adversaries mortified; and their 
mortification was increased by an expression of the 
pope, which was soon in every one’s mouth, that Fcne- 
lon was in fault for too great love of God; his enemies 
equally in fault for too little love of their neighbor” 
(Bausset, Ilist. de Fenelon , ii, 220). 

The controversy had been going on in France dur- 
ing the time occupied by the investigation at Rome. 
“ Bossuet published a succession of pamphlets. Sev- 
eral of the bishops who had espoused the side of Bos- 
suct issued pastorals in the same sense. Fenelon de- 
fended himself vigorously against them all in several 
publications, explanatory as well of his principles as 
of the personal imputations in which some of his ad- 
versaries did not scruple to indulge. The last blow 
against the ancient friendship of the great rivals was 
struck by Bossuet in his celebrated Relation sur le Qui- 
et isme. Fenelon was wounded to the heart. The cop}' 
of Bossnet’s pamphlet which first came into his hands 
is still preserved in the British Museum, and the mar- 
gin is literally filled with remarks, annotations, re- 
plies, denials, and rejoinders, in the singularly delicate 
and beautiful handwriting of the indignant archbishop. 
The copy now in the British Museum is most probably 
one which, as wc learn from his correspondence, he 
sent to his agent at Rome, and on the margin of which 
he corrected, for the guidance of his friend, the many 
false and exaggerated charges of his great antagonist. 
The substance of these replies he gave to the public in 
a most masterly defence, written, printed, and pub- 
lished within little more than a fortnight from the, ap- 
pearance of Bossuet’s Relation ” (Chambers, Encyclo - 
podia, s. v.). 

When the papal brief arrived, Fenelon submitted at 
once, and ordered all copies of the book that were in 
circulation to be brought that he might burn them 
with his own hand. lie read the brief from his own 
pulpit, and addressed a pastoral to the people of his 
diocese, in which he said, “Our holy father has con- 
demned my book, entitled Maxims of Saints, and lias 
condemned in a particular manner twenty-three prop- 
ositions extracted from it. Wc adhere to his brief, 
and condemn the book and the propositions simply, 
absolutely, and without a shadow of reserve.” ITe 
even presented to the cathedral a piece c-f gold plate, 
on which is a picture engraved representing the angel 
of truth trampling on several erroneous books, among 
which is his Jfaximes. This submission appears to us 
Protestants to have been at once weak and ostenta- 
tious, hut in the Roman Catholic Church it is one of 
Fenelon’s highest titles to glory. Bossnet’s conduct 
is variously represented : according to one account lie 
was really touched hv the conduct of Fenelon, and de- 
sired to he completely reconciled to him ; according to 
others, he retained at heart his bitter feeling, and kept 


I up the same spirit in the mind of the king. About 
this time Fenelon sent a complete and corrected copy 
of Telemaque to the duke of Burgundy. The copyist, 

| it seems, made a duplicate, and printed it at Paris, 

I without the knowledge of Fenelon. The book was 
immediately suppressed by order of the king, but was 
printed again in Holland in 1G99, spread throughout 
Europe, and was translated into almost every tongue. 

: By the courtiers of Louis XIV Telemaque. was regard- 
j ed as a satire upon that monarch and his satellites, 

I Sesostris being supposed to represent the king; Ca- 
I lvpso, Madame de Montespan ; Protesilaus, Louvois; 
j and Eueharis, Mademoiselle de Fontanges. This scan- 
dal shut Fenelon out of the court of Louis XIV for the 
rest of his life. He was ordered to remain within his 
diocese, and was forbidden all intercourse with his pu- 
pil, the duke of Burgundy. But the displeasure of 
the court did not diminish the reputation of Fenelon 
either in France or in Europe generally. lie devoted 
the remainder of his life to diligent care of his diocese, 
and to literary labors. lie founded a seminary at 
Cambray, to which he gave his personal attention. 
During the War of the Succession his diocese was 
often the scene of military operations, and he did his 
best to assuage the horrors of war. He brought to- 
gether into his palace the wretched inhabitants of the 
country whom the war had driven from their homes, 
and took care of them, and fed them at his own table. 
Seeing one day that one of these peasants ate nothing, 
he asked him the reason of his abstinence. “Alas! 
my lord,” said the poor man, “ in making my escape 
from my cottage I had not time to bring off my cow r , 
which was the support of my family. The enemy 
will drive her away, and I shall never find another so 
good.” Fenelon, availing himself of his privilege of 
safe-conduct, immediately set out, accompanied by a 
single servant, and drove the cow back himself to the 
peasant. “This,” said cardinal Maury, “is perhaps 
the finest act of Fenelon's life.” He adds, “Alas! for 
1 the man who reads it without being affected.” An- 
! other anecdote, showing his tenderness to the poor, is 
thus related of him. A literary man, whose library 
was destroyed by fire, has been deservedly admired for 
j saying, “ I should have profited but little by my books 
if they had not taught me how to hear the loss of 
i them.” The remark of Fenelon, who lost his in a sim- 
ilar way, is still more simple and touching : “ I w ould 
much rather they were burned than the cottage of a 
poor peasant.” In 1709, the duke of Marlborough, by 
express commands, exempted libs lands from pillage, 
w hile that general himself and his allies showed the 
aged prelate every mark of courtesy. 

In the Janseni^t disputes Fenelon wrote against Jan- 
senius, and expressed himself very strongly, though 
at first charitably, against Quesnel and Pascal. Sec 
Jaxsenism; Port Royal, lie wrote a Memoire de- 
manding a judgment from the pope to settle the con- 
troversy by a dogmatic decision, to which all must 
submit. This Memoire was laid before the pope (Clem- 
ent XI), and his bull Yin earn Demini shows evident 
traces of its influence. He also wrote a treatise, De 
Svmmi Pont'ficis Auctoritate (in his ( Kurres , Versailles, 
1820, tom. ii), in which he yielded more to the papal 
claims than became him as a Gallicnn bishop. Deny- 
ing the direct temporal power of the pope, he admits a 
j potestas directoria , equivalent to what is called the in- 
direct temporal pow'er. See Pole, Temporal Pow- 
er of. 

In his personal habits Fenelon was temperate al- 
most to abstemiousness, took no repose except a few 
hours daily in the cx«crcises of walking or riding, while 
the rest of his time was devoted to social intercourse 
, with his friends, to visiting the poor, and ether pasto- 
ral functions. The most of his revenues were devoted 
i to benevolent uses. lie died at Cambray Jan. 7, 1715. 

AVc cite a passage from Dr. Channing on the char- 
acter and writings of Fenelon: “Iiis works have the 


FENELON 


531 


FERGUSON 


great charm of coming fresh from the soul. He wrote 
from experience, anti hence, though he often speaks 
a language which must seem almost a foreign one to 
men of the world, yet he always speaks in a tone of 
reality. That he lias excesses we mean not to deny, 
but tliey are of a kind which we regard with more 
than indulgence, almost with admiration. Common 
fanaticism we cannot away with, for it is essentially 
vulgar, the working of animal passions, sometimes of 
sexual love, and oftcner of earthly ambition. But 
when a pure mind errs by aspiring after disinterested- 
ness and purity not granted to our present infant 
state, we almost reverence its errors; and still more, 
we recognise in them an essential truth. They only 
anticipate and claim too speedily the good for which 
man was made. They are the misapprehensions of 
the inspired prophet, who hopes to see in his own day 
what he was appointed to promise to remoter ages. 
Fenelon saw far into the human heart, and especially 
into the lurkings of self-love. lie looked with a pierc- 
ing eye through the disguises of sin. But he knew 
sin, not, as most men do, by bitter experience of its 
power, so much as by his knowledge and experience 
of virtue. Deformity was revealed to him by his re- 
fined perceptions and intense love of moral beauty. 
The light, which he carried with him into the dark 
corners of the human heart, and hv which he laid open 
its most hidden guilt, was that of celestial goodness. 
Hence, though the severest of censors, he is the most 
pitying. Not a tone of asperity escapes him. lie 
looks on human error with an angel’s tenderness, with 
tears which an angel might shed, and thus reconciles 
and binds us to our race at the very moment of reveal- 
ing its corruptions” ( Christian Examiner , vi, 7). 

Literature. — The writings of Fenelon are too numer- 
ous to be mentioned in detail. They are classified as 
follows in the Versailles edition of his works (1820, 22 
vols. 8vo): Metaphysical and Theological Writings, 
vols. i-iii ; The Quietistic Controversy , and Discussions 
thereon ivith Bossuet, vols. iv-ix ; writings on Jansen- 
ism, vols. x-xvi ; Education of Girls , Sermons , Relig- 
ious Meditations , vols. xvii, xviii ; Fables, Dialogues , 
smaller writings , vol. xix; Telcmaque , vol. xx ; Dia- 

1 >gues on Eloquence , Correspondence , Lives of Ancient Phi- 
losophers, vols. xxi, xxii. There are many collective 
editions of the writings of Fenelon, of which the most 
complete is that of Lebel, commenced at Versailles 
1820-24, in 22 vols. 8vo., with 11 vols. additional of 
Correspondance (Paris, 1827-20), and 1 vol. of Tables 
et Index (Paris, 1830), making 34 vols. in all. The 
next best (in some respects the best) is that of t lie 
abbe Gosselin (Paris and Besancon, 1851-52, 10 vols. 
imp. 8vo), with a copious literary history of Fenelon. 
Of editions of his select works, the best are that of Pc- 
risse (Paris, 1842, 4 vols. large 8vo) ; that of Dufour, 
the first volume of which is a Vie de Fenelon (Paris, 
182G, 12 vols. 8vo); and that of Lefcvre, with Vie by 
Aim6 Martin (Paris, 1835; and by Didot, 1838, 3 vols. 
largo 8vo). Of his separate writings the editions are 
too numerous to be mentioned here. Many of his 
writings have been translated into English ; among 
them are, On the Education of Daughters (Bond. 1703 ; 
Albany, 180G); Dialogues on Eloquence (Lond. 1808; 
Boston, 1832) ; Demonstration of the Existence of God 
(London, 1749, 12mo) ; Spiritual 1 1 r orks, translated by 
Houghton, with Life (Dublin, 1771, 2 vols. 8vo); Te- 
lemachus (many editions ; best bv Hawkesworth, Lond. 

2 vols. 12nio, 1808) ; Lives of the Anc. Philosophers , with 
Life of Fenelon , by Cormach (N. Y. 1841, 12mo); Selec- 
tions from the Writings of Fenelon, with a Memoir of his 
Life by Mrs. Follen (Boston, 1829 ; new cd. 1859, l2mo). 
Of L'ves of Fenelon, besides those already cited in con- 
nection with editions of his works, we name Iiamsay, 
Vie de Fenelon (Paris, 1725, 12mo) ; Qucrbeuf, Vie de 
F. (Paris, 1787) ; Bausset, I list . de Fenelon (Par. 1817, 31 
cd.,4 vols.8vo); Mild ford, Life qfF. (transl. from Ba as- 
set, Lond. 1810, 2 vols. 8vo); Butler, Life of Fenelon 


I (abridged from Bausset, Lond. 1810, 8vo) ; Tabarau 1, 
Suppl. aux histoires de Bossuet et de Fenelon (Paris, lb 22, 
Svo). See also Mackintosh, Ethical Philosophy (Phila- 
delph. 1832, Svo), p. 9G sq. ; Quarterly Revieiv (Lond.), 
x, 409; Princeton Review , April, 1853, art. i ; Hoofer, 
Nouv. Blog. G hit rale, xvii, 319 sq. ; I look, Eccles. Biog. 
v, 78 sq. ; Matter, Le Mysticisme en France au Temps de 
Fenelon (Par. 1804) ; Sainte Beuvc, Nouv. Lundis (Par. 
18041, ii, 113 sq. ; Revue Chritienne, 1803, 513 sq. ; 
Methodist Quarterly Renew, Jan. I860; Zeitschrift f d. 
hist. Theoloyie, 18G9, 239. 

Fenestella, the niche at the side of an altar, con- 
taining the piscina (q. v.) or water-drain, into which 
was poured the water in which the priest washed his 
hands, and that with which the chalice was rinsed at 
the celebration of the mass. There is frequently a 
shelf above the water-drain, on which could be placed 
certain vessels which were required at the altar. A 
second niche, at the side of the fenestella, sometimes 
held the credence-table. In England the fenestella 
is almost universally at the south side of the altar. 
(G. F. C.) 

Fenner, William, B.D., an English Puritan, was 
born in 1G00, and was educated at Pembroke Hall, 
Cambridge. He was appointed rector of Ilocliford, 
Essex, in 1029, and died about 1040. lie was a very 
popular preacher, and his works, which have become 
very scarce, are written in a plain, earnest, and im- 
pressive style. The principal are, A Treatise of the 
Affections ; or the Soul's Pulse (Lond. 1G41, Svo) : — The 
Sacrifice of the Fa'thful ; or the Nature, Property , and 
Efficacy of zealous Prayer (Lond. 1018, sm. Svo) : — The 
spiritual Maris Directory, guiding to true Blessedness in 
his three maine Duties (Lond. 1049, sm. Svo), collected, 
with other writings, in his Works (Lond. 1058, 1 vol. in 
2, fol.). — Darling, Cyclopadia Biblioejrai hica, s. v. 

Fereter usually indicates the portable shrine in 
which the relics of saints are carried about in proces- 
sion ; it is also applied to the fixed shrines or tombs in 
which the bodies or relies of saints are deposited. (G. 
F. C.) 

Feretory, the inclosurc or chapel of a church in 
which the fereter is placed. (G. F. C.) 

Ferguson, Adam, a Scotch philosopher, was born 
in 1724 at Logierait, Perthshire, lie studied at St. 
Andrew’s and at Edinburgh with a view to the Chris- 
tian ministry. On being ordained, he was appointed 
chaplain to the 42d regiment, in which lie remained 
till 1757, when he retired, and was appointed keeper 
of the advocates’ library of Edinburgh. In 1759 lie 
was made professor of natural philosophy in the col- 
lege of that city, and in 1704 he was appointed to the 
chair of moral philosophy, a branch of science to which 
he had more particularv applied himself. In 17G7 lie 
published Essay on the History of Civil Society ; in 1776, 
Remarks on a Pamphlet of Dr. Pt'icc,- entitled Observa- 
tions on the Nature of Civil Liberty. “In 1778 lie was 
appointed secretary to the commissioners who were 
sent to America in order to try to effect a reconcilia- 
tion with the mother country, an office in which Fer- 
guson took a clearer view of the state of the question, 
and of the temper of the American people, than was 
common at that time with Englishmen. On his re- 
turn in 1779 he resumed the duties of his professor- 
ship, and in 1783 he published History of the Progress 
and the Termination of the Roman Republic (3 vols. 
4to).” In 1784 he resigned his professorship. “In 
1792 he published Principles of Moral and Political Sci- 
eiLce, being chiefly a retrospect of lectures on ethics 
and politics, delivered in the College of Edinburgh (2 
vols. 4to). Another work of Dr. Ferguson on the same 
subject, though a more elementary one, the Institutes 
of Moral Philosophy, which lie first published in 1709, 
has been translated into the French and German lan- 
guages, and often reprinted.” lie died at St. An- 


FERGUSON 


532 


FERRAR 


drew’s, February 22, 1816. — Chambers, Encyclopaedia , 
s. v. 

Ferguson, James, minister of Kilwinning, Scot- 
land, a preacher and commentator of some eminence. 
Little is known of his life; he died about 1670. He 
published Brief Exposition of Philippians and Colossians 
(1656): — Brief Exjiosdion of Galatians and Ephesians 
(1650); and after his death appeared his Brief Exposi- 
tion of\ and 2 Thessalonians (1674). Orme ( Biblioth . 
Biblicei) says that, these “ expositions are uncommonly 
sensible.” They have been republished in one vol- 
ume (London, 1841, large 8vo). 

Ferguson, Samuel D., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in the city of New York in 1708, 
but removed with his parents at an early age to Dela- 
ware County, where he was converted at fourteen, 
lie entered the New York Conference in 1819, and 
died in New York, December 30, 1855. lie was a high- 
ly influential and useful minister, and an able presid- 
ing elder. He was three times a delegate to the Gen- 
eral Conference, in 1832, 1836, and 1844. He served 
some time as agent for the Troy Conference Seminary, 
and spent four years with eminent success as superin- 
tendent of the Leake and Watts Orphan House, New 
York. — Minutes of Conferences, vi, 64. 

Ferloni, Severus Antoni us, a Homan ecclesias- 
tic, born in the States of the Church in 1740. He em- 
ployed himself for thirty years on a History of the 17?- 
riations in the Discipline of the Church , which was to 
form 30 vols., and was on the point of completion when 
the French army entered Home in 1798. 1 1 is papers 

were destroyed and his labor lost. Ferloni was soon 
after engaged on the side of ‘Napoleon, wrote homilies 
in his favor, and was made theologian to the privy 
council of the viceroy at Milan. Among other things 
be wrote a treatise De A uctoritate Eeclesiee , maintain- 
ing French views, but the censors would not allow it 
to appear. lie died at Milan, 1813. — Mignc, Biogra- 
phie Chrel. s. v. 

Ferme (or Fairholme ), Charles, a Scotch divine, 
was born in Edinburgh, and was educated at the uni- 
versity there, where lie became M.A. in 1587. In 1593 
he was made one of the regents of the university. Lie 
afterwards became minister at Fraserburgh, and (1600) 
principal of the college there; he died at Fraserburgh 
in 1617. He wrote a Logical Analysis of the Epistle of \ 
Paul to the Romans , which was published under the 
care of Dr. Adamson in 1G71, and has been republished 
by the Wodrow Society (Edinburgh, 1850, 8vo). In 
the preface to this edition, Dr. AV, L. Alexander gives 
the work high praise, even saying, “ So sagacious, ex- 
act, and perspicuous a commentary on the Homans I 
had not before had the good fortune to peruse.” 

Ferment. Sec Leaven; Wine. 

Fermentariaus (Fermenteirii), a name given to 
the Greek Church by the Latins, because the former 
use leavened bread in the Eucharist: the Greeks call- 
ing the Latins Azymites (q. v.). The word fermentum 
was used, even in the Latin Church, at an early pe- 
riod, to designate the Eucharist, showing that then fer- 
mented bread was used. — Bingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. 
xv, eh. ii, § 5. 

Fernand (Piiekxandus, Ferdinand, or Fer- 
rand), a Belgian monk and reformer, was born at 
Bruges in 1450. lie either lost his sight in childhood 
or was born blind, which, however, did not prevent 
him from studying philosophy, theology, rhetoric, po- 
etry, and music. He pursued these studies in Paris, 
and was appointed bv Charles VIII to the chair of 
belles-lettres in the University of Baris, It is possi- 
ble that he may also have occupied the chair of theol- 
ogy. In 1490 he entered the order of the Benedic- 
tines, and soon after, by special dispensation from the 
pope, he was allowed, in spite of his blindness, to take 
deacon’s orders, and began to preach. He died in 1196. 
His blindness did not prevent him from writing many J 


| books, among which are Epistolce Caroli Phernandi , 
Brugensis (Baris, no date, 4 to): — De Anirni Tranquilll - 
tatc libri duo (Baris, 1512): — Speculum monastics dis- 
ci) dime Pntris Bcnedicti Magni, etc. (Bar. 1515, fol.) ; 
— Elegies de Contemptu Mundi ; Odantm in laudem 
Christ 1 Libri (Baris, 1815). — Hoefer, Xouc. Biog. Gene- 
rale , xvii, 455. 

Feme, Henry, D.D., bishop of Chester, was born 
I at York in 1602, and was educated at St. Mary’s Hall, 
Oxford, and at Trinity College, Cambridge, of which 
he became a fellow, lie was made chaplain to tho 
bishop of Durham, and was successively presented to 
the livings of Masham, of Medborn, and to the arch- 
deaconry of Leicester. He took his doctor’s degree in 
j 1642, and espoused the cause of Charles I, who made 
j him his chaplain. On the Restoration Charles II 
gave him the mastership of Trinity College, and ho 
was twice chosen vice-chancellor. He was made bish- 
op of Chester in 1660, died in 1601, and was buried in 
Westminster Abbey. He published four tracts against 
the rebellion, 1642-43; two sermons, 1644-49 ; and 
live treatises in defense of the Church of England 
against Romanism and Presbyterianism, 1G47-G0. Ho 
j is said to have aided Walton in the Polyglot Bible. — * 
Ilook, Ecclcs. Biography , v, 89. 

Ferrand, Louis, a French Orientalist. He was 
: born at Toulon October 3, 1645, and was educated in 
I his native city and at Lyons, where he studied Hebrew 
and other Oriental languages. At twenty he went to 
Paris, and soon after to Mayence, to undertake a trans- 
lation of the Hebrew Bible. This project not succeeti- 
i ing, he returned to France, studied law, and was re- 
ceived as advocate in the Parliament of Paris. He, 
however, occupied himself much less with his new pro- 
fession than with controversial writings, and works on 
the history of the East. He died Mar. 11, 1099. 1 1 is 

works are, Conspectus seu Synopsis libri hcbruici qui in- 
scrib'd ur ; Annalcs Begum Franciae et reguin domus 
Othomanica? (Paris, 1670, Svo) : — Reflexions sur la Re- 
ligion Chriticnne , conienant les prophities de Jacob et de 
Daniel sur la venue du Messie, etc. (Paris, 1679, 2 vols. 
12mo) : — Liber Psahnorum , cum a rgu mentis, paraph rasi 
et annotationibus (Paris, 1683, 4to) Trade de V Eglisc , 
contrc les hentiques et princ'palement contre les cetlvin- 
istes (Paris, 16s 5, 12 mo) : — Ri’ponse a VApologie pour 
la Reformation, pour les rformateurs et pour les ref 'ormis 
(Paris, 1685, 12mo): — Rsanmes ele David en lathi et en 
franreiis Sedan 1 1 Vulgate (Paris, 1G86, 12mo) : — Lettre 
ei AD r - 1' cirque ele Beauvais sur le Monachisme de saint 
Augustin (Journal des Savants) : — Discours oh Von fait 
voir que saint A ugustin a <te moine (Paris, 1689, 12mo) : 
— Summa Biblica scu dissertations s prole gamenicez de 
Sacra Scriptura (Paris, 1G89, 12mo). — Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog, Gem ralc , xvii, 488. 

Ferrandus Fulgentius. See Fclgentius Fer- 

R AN DUS. 

Ferrar, Nicholas, a clergyman of the Church 
of England, eminent for piety, was born in London in 
1592, and was carefully trained at home both in relig- 
ion and letters. A t fourteen he entered the Univer- 
sity of Cambridge, and was eminently distinguished 
there by his abilities and learning, so that bis tutor used 
to say of him, “May God keep him in a right mind! 
for if he should turn schismatic or heretic, he would 
make work for all the world.” In 1G12 he went 
abroad, studied at Loipsic and Padua, and, after visit- 
ing Home, returned to England in 1618, and soon after 
became, actively engaged in the affairs of a great com- 
pany for colonizing Virginia, in America, of which he 
was chosen deputy governor. In 1624 he was elected 
to Parliament, where he was highly distinguished for 
eloquence and ability, but soon decided to quit public 
life and devote himself to a religious life. In the 
Church of Home he would have been a monk, and he 
came as near to it as possible for a Protestant. lie 
purchased in 1612 the manor of Little Gidding, in 


FERRAR 


533 


FERRARA 


Huntingdonshire, and organized in the mansion a re- 
ligious community of some forty persons, male and 
female, including his mother. In 1620 he was or- 
dained deacon by Laud (then bishop of St. David’s). 
He now “signed a vow, that since God had heard his 
most humble petitions, and delivered him out of many 
dangers, and in many desperate calamities had extend- 
ed his mercy to him, he would therefore now give 
himself up continually to serve God to the utmost of 
his power in the office of a deacon, into which office he 
had that morning been regularly ordained; that he 
had long ago seen enough of the manners and of the 
vanities of the world, and that he did hold them all in 
so low esteem that lie was resolved to spend the re- 
mainder of his life in mortifications, in devotion and 
charity, and in a constant preparation for death.” 
Benefices of great value were oflered him, but lie re- 
fused, saying that his fixed determination was to rise 
no higher in the Church than the place and office which 
he now possessed, and which he lnul undertaken only 
with the view to be legally authorized to give spirit- 
ual assistance, according to his abilities, to his family 
and others with whom he might be concerned ; and 
that, as to temporal affairs, he had now parted with all 
his worldly estate, and divided it among his family. 
Ferrar allotted one room in his house as ail oratory for 
the devotions of the whole family, besides two sepa- 
rate oratories for the men and women at night. His 
own lodgings were so contrived that he could conve- 
niently see that everything was conducted witli de- 
cency and order. He established a school close to the 
house, and provided masters for the free instruction of 
the children, lie was diligent in catechizing the chil- 
dren of the neighborhood; and every Sunday, after 
service, these children, more than one hundred in 
number, were hospitably entertained. After evening 
service, all went into the oratory, when select portions 
of the Psalms were repeated. After this they were at 
liberty till eight o’clock, when the bell again summon- 
ed them to the oratory, where they sang a hymn to the 
organ and went to prayers, and then all retired. On 
the first Sunday in every month they received the 
communion. On week-days they rose at four, at five 
went to prayers, at six said the Psalms of the hour; 
then they sang a hymn, repeated some passages of 
Scripture, and at half past six went to church. “At 
seven they said the Psalms of the hour, sang a hymn, 
and went to breakfast. At ten they went to church 
to litany ; at eleven to dinner, during which Scripture 
and pious books were read aloud. They went to even- 
ing prayers in the church at four, after which came 
supper and recreations till eight, at which time they 
prayed in their oratory. During the night there was 
a continual vigil or watching, in which several of the 
men and women, in their respective oratories, repeated 
the whole Psalter, together with prayers for the life 
of the king and his sons, from nine at night till one in 
the morning. The time of this watch being ended, 
they awoke Nicholas Ferrar, who constantly rose at 
one o’clock, and betook himself to religious meditation, 
according to these words, ‘At midnight will 1 rise and 
give thanks.’ Ferrar himself lay upon a skin stretch- 
ed on the floor, arrayed in a loose frieze gown, and he 
watched in the orator)” or the church three nights in 
the week. King Charles I held Nicholas Ferrar in 
great reverence, and came more than once to visit this 
religious society ; and, having perused the Harmony 
of the Gospels which they had compiled, he was so 
much pleased with it that he requested them to pre- 
pare a copy for his own peculiar use.” He died in 
1C37. Ferrar translated and published (though with- 
out his own name) the CX Considerations of Valdes 
(1638). — Hook, Eccles . Biography , v, 108; Peckard, 
Life of Ferrar , in Wordsworth, Eccles. Biography , iv, 
111; Palmer, Church History, 184 sq. See Valdes, 
Juan. 

Ferrar, Robert, bishop of St. David’s, a martyr 


of the reign of queen Mary, was born at Halifax, York- 
shire, and was educated at Oxford, where he became 
Ii.D. and a regular canon of the order of St. Augustine. 
The duke of Somerset, lord protector in the reign of 
Edward VI, was his patron, and employed him in car- 
rying on the Reformation. He was one of the com* 
mittee nominated to compile the English liturgy. The 
zeal of Ferrar, who was consecrated bishop in 1547 
(under Edward VI), soon procured him many enemies 
among the Papists, and after the fall of his eminent 
patron he was, under a false charge, committed to 
prison some time before the death of the king. On 
the accession of Mary he was tried on the new charge 
of heresy as a Protestant, degraded from his ecclesias- 
tical functions, and, in company with Hooper, Brad- 
ford, Rogers, Saunders, and others, delivered over to 
the secular power for punishment. A little before 
this good bishop suffered, a young gentleman who vis- 
ited him lamented the severity of the kind of death he 
was about to undergo. Ferrar replied, “ If you see 
me once to stir while I suffer the pains of burning, 
then give no credit to those doctrines for which I die.” 
By the grace of God he was enabled to make good this 
assertion, for he never moved until he was struck 
down in the flames by a blow on bis bead. He was 
burned at Caermarthen, in Wales, March 30, 1555. — 
Middleton, Evangelical Biography, i, 346; Burnet, Hist, 
of Reformation (4 vols.), ii, 347 sq. ; Fox, Book of Mar- 
tyrs; Ilook, Eccles. Biography, v, 96. 

Ferrara, Council of ( Concilium Ferrariense ), 
falsely styled oecumenical. Eugene VI having pub- 
lished a bull Sept. 18, 1437, for the transfer of the Coun- 
cil of Basle (q. v.) to Ferrara, a few bishops and abbots 
assembled Jan. 8, 1438, viz. cardinal Julian, wbo pre- 
sided, five archbishops, eighteen bishops, ten abbots, 
and some generals of the monastic orders ; of these 
bishops only four had left the Council of Basle, which 
continued its sitting, justly regarding the pope’s hull 
as illegal, and passing sentence of suspension on hint 
Jan. 24, 1438. Charles VI I, indeed, forbade any of his 
subjects to attend at Feirara. On Jan. 10 the first sit- 
ting was held, in which the translation of the council 
from Basle was pronounced to he canonical, and there- 
fore the oecumenical Council of Ferrara lawfully as- 
sembled. Bope Eugene presided in the second ses- 
sion, March 15, at the head of seventy-two bishops, 
and promulgated a decree against the fathers at Basle. 
The Greek emperor, John Manuel Paleologus, and the 
patriarch of Constantinople, Joseph II, arrived Feb. 
9 at Venice, and were received with great pomp, to- 
gether with Mark, archbishop of Ephesus ; twenty-one 
other prelates (among whom was Isidore, a Russian 
bishop, and Bessarion of Niccea), and other ecclesias- 
tics, amounting in all to seven hundred persons. Be- 
fore holding the first session with the Greeks, a scheme 
was drawn up of the different questions to be debated : 
1. The procession of the Holy Spirit; 2. the addition 
“ flioque ” to the creed; 3. purgatory, and the inter- 
mediate state; 4. the use of unleavened bread in the 
holy Eucharist ; 5. the authority of the Roman see 
and the primacy of the pope. These questions were 
debated in thirteen sessions, up to the sixteenth, 
Jan. 10, 1439, when it was proposed to transfer the 
council from Ferrara to Florence, and, this being 
agreed to, publication was made of the change. — 
Labhe, Concil. xiii, 1-222, 825-1031; Landon, Manual 
of Councils, p. 242; Mosheim, Ch. Ilist. cent, xv, pt. ii, 
ch. ii, § 13; Mansi, t. xxix, xxxi; Ffoulkes, Chnsten- 
dom's Divisions, Lond. 1867, pt. ii, ch. vii. Sec Flor- 
ence, Council of. 

Ferrara (Renata), Duchesse de, celebrated for 
her virtues and for her attachment to the Reformation, 
the daughter of Louis XI 1 and Anne of Bretagne, was 
born at Blois Oct. 25, 1510. In 1527 she was married 
to Hercule d'Este, duke of Ferrara and Modena. She 
is said to have been very learned, excelling in mathe- 


FERRARI 


534 


FERRET 


matics, especially in astronomy. Her husband died 
in 1550, and the next year she left Italy on account 
of her religion, and returned to France, where she was 
permitted to profess the Protestant faith. She resided 
at Montargis, and there gave protection to as many 
as were persecuted till she was forced to desist. Dur- 
ing the civil war in France she fed and maintained 
in her castle a great number of Protestants who had 
fled to her for refuge. She interceded strongly for the 
prince of Conde when he was imprisoned at Orleans 
in the time of the young king Francis, but was after- 
wards displeased with him, because neither she nor 
her ministers approved of the Protestants taking up 
arms. She died at Montargis June 12, 1575, in full 
profession of the Deformed faith, though the Jesuit Le 
Labourcux seeks to show that she abjured her religion. 
— Bayle, Dictionary , cd. Dos Maizeaux (Lond. 173G), 
iii, 30. 

Ferrari, Francisco Bernardino, an Italian ar- 
chaeologist, was born at Milan in 157G. Entering the 
Congregation of St. Ambrose, he studied philosophy 
and divinity, as well as the Latin and Greek langua- 
ges, and was admitted doctor. Borromeo, archbishop 
of Milan, appointed him to travel into various parts of 
Europe to purchase the best books and MSS. to form a 
library at Milan. Ferrari passed over part of Italy 
and Spain, and collected a great number of books, 
which laid the foundation of the famous Ambrosian 
Library. About 1638 lie was appointed director of 
the College of the Nobles, lately erected at Padua, 
which office he discharged two years, and then, on ac- 
count of indisposition, returned to Milan. He died at 
Milan Feb. 3, 1GG9. Among his writings are, De An- 
tiqno Eccles. Epistolarum Centre libri tres (Milan, 1G13): 
— De Ritu Sacrarum Ecclesue Catholicce concionum libri 
tres (Milan, 1G20; Utrecht, 1692, cum prajfatione Jo- 
an nis Gcorgii Gnevii): — De Veterum acclamationibus 
ct plansu libri s ptem (Milan, 1G27 ; also in vol. vi of 
Gnevius’s Thesaur. A ntiq. Rom.'). II is writings are 
full of learning; he is very judicious in his conjectures, 
and exact in his quotations. — Du Pin, Rib!, des Au- 
teurs Eccles. xvii, 109 (Amst. 1711). 

Ferraris, Lucius, an Italian divine, author of a 
large encyclopedic work, entitled Promta bibliotheca 
canonica , juridicn , m oralis , thrologica , necnon ascetica , 
polemica, rubricistica , historica (edit, noviss. Yenetai, 
1782, 10 vols. 4to). A new edition, revised and en- 
larged, was published by Migne (Paris, 18GG, 8 vols. 
royal Svo). 

Ferrer, Bonifacio, brother of St. Vincent Ferrer, 
and prior of the Carthusian monastery of Portaceli, in 
Valencia, lie translated the whole Scriptures into 
tlie Valcncian or Catalonian dialect. This transla- 
tion, which was printed at Valencia in 1478, although 
it was the work of a Homan Catholic author, and had 
undergone the examination and correction of the in- 
quisitor Janies Borrell, had scarcely made its appear- 
ance when it was suppressed by the Inquisition, and 
consigned to the flames. lie died in the year 1417.— 
M"Crie, Reformation in Spain , cli. v. 

Ferrer, Rafael, a Spanish missionary, was horn 
at Valencia. Having entered the order of the Jesu- 
its, he devoted himself to the preaching of the Gospel 
in the deserts bordering on the Amazon Diver. It was, 
in particular, the ferocious and numerous nation of the 
Cofanes, which had never yet seen a missionary, and 
which, divided into twenty tribes, occupied a territory 
about sixty miles from Quito, to which he devoted his 
labors. "1 lie Cofanes had never been subjected to 
Spanish rule, and had recently destroyed the town of 
Ecija and a number of villages. In 1603, after four- 
teen months of labor, Ferrer succeeded in organizing 
the mission of San Paulo y^San Pedro d° los Cofanes. 
In 1604 two other villages swelled the number of the 
converted population to 6500. In-1605 Ferrer follow- 

ed the course of the Aguarico, penetrated into the 


Napo, and altogether, in the course of two years and 
a half, travelled more than 1000 miles, and acquired a 
better acquaintance with the savage nations in the vi- 
cinity of the Amazon than any man of that time. In 
1608 he returned to the Cofanes. He then prepared 
a Grammar of the language of the Cofanes, and trans- 
lated for them the Catechism. He next undertook a 
journey to Quito, to induce the authorities to establish 
new missions. 1 1 is petition having been granted, ho 
again returned to the Cofanes, when his earnest ser- 
mons against polygamy cost him his life in 1611, one 
of the chiefs whom he had compelled to give up his 
concubines precipitating him from a steep rock. — Hoe- 
fer, Xouv. Ring, (diner, xvii, 535. (A. J. S.) 

Ferrer or Ferrier, Vincentius (St.), a Domin- 
ican monk, was born in Valencia Jan. 23, 1357. He 
entered the order in 1374, and in 1380 lie went to the 
University of Barcelona, where he spent two years. 
In 1384 he was made doctor at Lerida. In 1395 ho 
was called to Avignon by pope Benedict XIII as mas- 
ter of the palace, and here he conceived the idea of 
devoting his life to the healing of the schism in tho 
papacy which then threatened the destruction of the 
Roman Church. He carried out this idea by declar- 
ing for Martin V, and by striving for a reunion in 
many writings, and by vast labors and travels in 
Spain, France, Italy, and the British Islands. He 
died at Yannes, in Brittany, April 5, 1419, and was 
canonized by pope Calixtus in 1455. His writings aro 
said to be poor in thought and language. — Mosheim, 
Ch. Hist. cent, xv, pt. ii, ch. ii, n. 75; Butler, Lives cf 
the Saints, April 5. 

Ferret, evidently a conjectural rendering for ana- 
hili (nj?!i<, a sighing ; Sept. /.ivya\)), Vulg. my gale ), 
one of the unclean creeping tilings mentioned in Lev. 
xi, 30. The Dabbinical writers seem to have identi- 
fied this animal with the hedgehog (see Lewvsohn, 
Zool. des Talnmds, § 129, 134). The Sept, and Vulg. 
refer to an animal which, according to Aristotle {Hist. 
Anim. viii, 24), is the Mus araneus , or shrew-mouse; 
but the associated names render it more probable that 
the animal referred to in Leviticus was a reptile of the 
lizard tribe (so Bocliart and Gesenius), deriving its 
name from the mournful cry, or wail, which some liz- 
ards utter, especially those of the Gecko family. The 
Lacerta gecko (otherwise called “ fan -foot” lizard; 
Gecko lobulatus , the Ptyodactylns of Hasselquist) is per- 
haps the animal intended. “ The geckos are small 



The Gecko. 


lizards, usually somewhat clumsy in form, stealthy 
and cat-like in their actions, secreting themselves in 
holes and crevices by day, and at night coining forth 
to prey upon nocturnal insects. The form of the eye 
indicates their season of activity, for the pupil, which 
is capable of great expansion and contraction, closes 
to a vertical line. The animals crawl with ease and 
confidence on perpendicular walls, and even on the 
under sides of ceilings, beams, and the like, provided 
these have a somewhat roughened surface. Tins cu- 
rious power, the rapidity with which they disappear in 
some crevice when alarmed, and their sombre and lu- 


FERRIER 


535 


FERRY-BOAT 


rid hues, their association with night, their loud and 
harsh croak, their slow and stealthy pace, and espe- 
cially a certain sinister expression of countenance, 
produced by the large globular eye, unprotected by 
an eyelid and divided by its linear pupil, have com- 
bined to give to these reptiles in all countries a popu- 
lar reputation for malignity and venom, and they are 
generally much dreaded. This reputation, however, 
appears to be wholly groundless ; and the story told 
by Hasselquist of a man who would lay hold of the 
reptile, and whose hand instantly became covered with 
red pustules, inflamed and itching, must be received 
with suspicion. Still more incredible is another ac- 
count by the same naturalist, to the effect that he saw 
at Cairo two women and a girl at the point of death 
from having eaten some cheese over which a gecko 
had crawled ! The most interesting point in the econ- 
omy of these curious lizards is the structure of their 
feet, by which they are enabled to defy the laws of 
gravity. The feet are nearly equal, short, stout, and 
terminated by five toes, differing little in length, which 
radiate as if from a centre, so as to form two thirds of 
a circle. The under surface of the toes is, in most of 
the genera, much widened, and furnished with small 
plates or laminae, overlapping each other in a regular 
manner, which varies in different genera and species. 
The toes are frequently united by a membrane at their 
base. The claws are pointed, hooked, and kept con- 
stantly sharp, by an apparatus by which they are ca- 
pable of retraction, like those of the cat. It is by 
means of the singular lamellated structure of the un- 
der surface of the toes that these reptiles, or at least 
many of them, are enabled to cling to vertical or even 
inverted surfaces, as house-flies do. The mode in 
which this is effected -we do not thoroughly under- 
stand; but we may conjecture that it is by the raising 
of these imbricated plates by muscular action, so as to 
form a vacuum beneath the sole, when the pressure of 
the external air causes the toe to adhere firmly to the 
surface. The similarity of the structure to that of the 
coronal sucker in the remora suggests this explana- 
tion. A familiar illustration of the principle is seen 
in the leathern suckers which children make, which 
adhere so firmly that large stones are lifted by them” 
(Fairbairn, s. v.). See Lizard. 



Under Surface of the Feet ot the Gecko. 

Ferrier, Jeremy, a French Protestant minister, 
was born about 1560, became professor of theology at 
Nismes, and is remarkable for having become a Papist, 
even after having maintained in a public disputation 
in 1602 that ‘‘pope Clement the Vlllth was properly 
the Antichrist.” The Parliament of Toulouse having 
ordered his arrest, it became necessary for Henry IV 
to intervene to save him from the results of his temer- 
ity. In gratitude for this. Ferrier favored the restric- 
tive measures adopted by the court against the Protes- 
tants. For this he was suspected by his Protestant 
friends, and was forbidden to preach bv the Synod of 
Privas in 1612. He did not, however, change bis re- 
ligion till a popular tumult arose against him, in which 
his house was plundered, and himself so near being 
murdered, that, for the sake of escaping, be was obliged 
to lie three days concealed in a tomb. He then be- 
came a Roman Catholic, and removed to Paris, where 
he was subsequently made counsellor of state by Louis 


XI IL He died Sept. 2G, 1626. He wrote a treatise, 
De V Antichrist et de ses marques , con/re les ennemis de, 
V Eglise catholique (Paris, 1615). — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generale , xvii, 550; Bayle, Dhtionaiy (London, 1736), 
iii, SO. 

Ferry, Paul, a French Protestant divine, was 
born at Metz Feb. 24, 1591, and was educated at the 
Seminary of Montauban. He became pastor at Metz 
in 1612, and held that position during sixty years. 
He was one of the most eloquent men in the province, 
and by his powers of mind, his activity, and his pru- 
dence, he gained the esteem of the most influential 
men of his time, and early obtained great influence 
over Roman Catholics as well as Protestants. Being 
troubled by the divisions which existed among the 
Protestants, and lioping to do something towards re- 
moving them, he held a correspondence on the subject 
with Durams [sec Dury], the great “pacificator.” 
Dury even came to Metz in 1G62 to discuss the sub- 
ject. Nothing substantial came of it; but Ferry car- 
ried his love of conciliation so far that he even regard- 
ed as possible the reunion of Protestants and Roman- 
ists ; at all events, it is certain that he had on this 
subject a long correspondence with Bossuet. It oc- 
curred in this way. Ferry had published in 1654 a 
Catecliisme general de la Reformation, in which he 
showed that the Reformation was a necessary reaction 
against the corruption of the Church. Bossuet, at that 
time canon and archdeacon of Metz, wrote a refutation 
of this little work. The discussion led to a mutual 
esteem between the disputants; and when, in 1667, 
the project of the reunion of Protestants and Roman 
Catholics was considered by the government, Ferry 
was consulted, and entered into correspondence with 
Bossuet on the subject. This correspondence is print- 
ed in vol. xxiv of the CEvvrcs de Bossuet (edition of 
Versailles). It has been proved almost beyond doubt 
that Ferry was one of the ministers gained over by the 
cardinal Richelieu to agitate in favor of the reunion 
of the two religions, and that he received a pi m ion of 
five hundred crowns for so doing. The receipt of Fer- 
ry for this sum is said to be shown in the Imperial 
Library of Paris. Ferry died at Metz July 28, 1G69. 
He left a large number of writings, most of which re- 
main in MS. Those which are published are, besides 
a volume of poetry, Scholastici orthodoxi Specimen , hoc 
est Salutis nostra ? methodns analytica , ex ipsis Seholasti- 
corum veierum ct recent iorum intimis junta normam 
Scriptnraruni adornata et instructa (Geneva, 1616, 8vo ; 
2d cd. Leyden, 1630, 8vo) : — Le dernier Desespoir de la 
Tradition contre Vecriture (Sedan, 1618, 8 vo) : — Refu- 
tation des Calamities semics nouvellement centre certain 
endroit d'un livre pablie il y a plvsieurs annees et intitule ; 
Le dernier Desespoir , etc. (Sedan, 1624, 8vo): — Re- 
marque s dhistcire stir le “ Disccurs de la vie et de la 
mort de St. Sevier f publics par le Sieur de Ramberril- 
ler (1624, 8vo) : — T 'indicia pro Scholastic o orihodexo, 
adrersus Leon. Perinium , Jesuit in quilus agiittr d 
predestinations el arnica is, de gratia et Micro arliirio, 
de cons t peccati et justfeatinne (Leyden, 1630, Svo) : — 
Qtiaire Sermons prononcis en divers lieux et sur clijftr- 
I ents svjets (La Fertc-au-Col, 1616, 12mo) : — Leitre aux 
ministres de Geneve , vol. ii of the Bibliotlieqve A nglaise. 
— Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gent rale, xvii, 563; Bayle, Dic- 
I tionary (Loud. 1736), iii, 33 ; Haag, I. a France Protes- 
ianie; Floquet, Etudes sur la vie de Bossuet (Par. 1855, 

1 3 vols. 8vo), vol. i ; I^ondon Rev. July, 1856, p. 409 sq. 
Ferri, Paul. See Ferry. 

Ferry-boat (il^sr, abarali , passage ; Sept, ad- 
/Same'), a vessel for crossing a stream (2 Sam. xix, 
18). The Syriac and Vnlg. refer this word to the 
men mentioned in the above text, and accordingly 
Boothroyd renders the passage, “And these went over 
Jordan before the king, and performed the service of 
bringing over the king’s household,” which, as some 
, of the Rabbins understand, w r as accomplished by earn'- 


FERUS 


536 


FESSLEI 


ing over on their hacks the women and children who 
could not conveniently ford the river. This, however, 
is not in accordance with the construction of the orig- 
inal (which, moreover, has the article emphatically 
rr zr n rrz:r, rt»(lTHE /e>Ty[-boat] crossed). Some 
suppose (so Josephus, Ant. vii, 11, 2) that there was a 
bridge of bouts employed on this occasion, and others 
that a ferrv-boat of some kind was used for this pur- 
pose (see Kitto, Piet. Bible , note in loc.). It is proba- 
ble that a raft, or float, was constructed ; if not, some 
kind of boat, for the use of these must have been 
known to the Hebrews, as we find vessels apparently 
of this description delineated among the paintings of 
ships on the Egyptian monuments. Floats of various 



Ancient Egyptian Ferry boat for Funerals. 

kinds, buoyed up by inflated bladders, calabashes, 
wicker-work, and even earthen or metallic vessels, 
have been used from the earliest ages on the Nile (Isa. 
xviii, 2) and Tigris, for transporting passengers or 
goods; and modern travellers frequently allude to 
similar modes of conveyance at the present day among 
the Arabs. See Float. Similar scenes are depicted 
upon the Assyrian monuments (Layard’s Nineveh, i, 
270). See Boat. 



Ancient Assyrian Monarch preparing to 


Ferus, Johannes (originally Wild), a Francisean 
monk and cathedral preacher at Mentz, lived in the 
10th century. He published a large number of ser- 
mons and Biblical commentaries. Of the latter sev- 
eral were put on the Bom an Index. Ferus clings to 
the literal meaning of the Scriptures, and avoids al- 
legorical interpretations. He recommends the read- 
ing of the Scriptures, and refutes the objection that 
the Scriptures are obscure. He complains of the prev- 
alence of a Pharisaic spirit in the Roman Catholic 
Church, since there was in it a great deal of outward 
ceremonial, hut little truth, lie preached that repent- 
ance does not consist in outward works, such as fast- 
ing, praying, and giving alms, hut that it begins, on 
the one hand, with the announcement of the divine 
law, the consciousness of one's sinfulness, and the fear 
of the judgment of God, and, on the other hand, with 
the announcement of the grace of God, and with con- ' came tutor to prince Carolath’s sons. In 1701 Fess- 
fidence in the divine promise. Ferns thought that ler became a Protestant. After remaining a long 
popes, emperors, councils, and the diets could do noth- time in Berlin he went to Russia, and became professor 
ing so long as the Church was full of errors and her of Oriental languages in the Academy of St. Alexander 
doctrines corrupt. lie died in 1554. — Herzog, Peal- 1 Newski, hut was afterwards accused of atheism, and 
EncyVop. xvi, 141. (A. J. S.) * | lost his situation.. After being for a while a member 

Fesch, Josei'ii, a French* cardinal, was born in of the Legislative Assembly, he went in 1817 to Sa- 
Ajaceio, Corsica, Jan. 3, 1703. 1 1 is father's second repta, the head-quarters of the Moravians in Russia, 

wife was the mother of Laetitia Bonaparte. He stud- In 1820 he became superintendent of the evangelical 
ied at the College of Aix, in Provence, entered the community at Saratof, and in 1833 general superin- 


Chureh, and was archdeacon and provost of the chap- 
ter of Ajaccio when the revolution broke out. The 
Bonaparte family being exiled from Corsica in 1793 
for their opposition to Paoli and his British allies, 
Fesch followed them to Toulon, where his circumstan- 
ces compelled him to enter the commissariat of the 
army. In 1795 he was appointed to the commissariat 
of the Army of Italy, just placed under the command 
of his nephew, Napoleon Bonaparte. After the 18th 
Brumaire he resumed his ecclesiastical functions, and 
was actively engaged in the negotiations concerning 
the Concordat of July 15, 1801. Napoleon made him 
archbishop of Lyons, and Fesch took possession of that 
see Aug. 15, 1802. Six months later he was created 
cardinal of St. Laurent in Lucina. In 1804 he was 
appointed ambassador to Rome, and was accompanied 
in this mission by Chateaubriand, who thus began liis 
diplomatic career. lie subsequently decided Pius VII 
to come to Paris to crown the emperor. Napoleon ap- 
pointed him high almoner, commander of the Legion 
of Honor, and senator. Fesch paid great attention to 
the interests of his diocese, and established a high the- 
ological school. During the difficulties between Na- 
poleon and the pope he showed much consideration for 
the latter, declining in 1809 the archbishopric of Paris, 
which was offered him by the emperor, and even re- 
jecting the petitions of the chapter that he would at 
least administer the diocese. In 1811 Napoleon called 
a council to settle his difficulties with Pius VII, and 
appointed Fesch its president, in which capacity he 
seems not to have acted according to the views of the 
emperor, for he was sent back to his diocese. A letter 
of his addressed to the pope, then at Fontainebleau, 
caused him to be deprived 
of his stipend. He intro- 
duced into France the or- 
der of the “Brethren of the 
Christian Schools," found- 
ed at Lyons a college of 
home missiors, and was 
instrumental in procuring 
the recall of the Jesuits. 
'When Napoleon I was sent 
to Elba, Fesch withdrew to 
Rome, where he was well 
received by Pius VII. Dur- 
ing the “hundred days' 1 he 
returned to France and into 
his archbishopric. After the 
battle of Waterloo he re- 
turned to Rome, declining, however, to resign his office 
as archbishop of Lyons. He died May 13, 1839. See 
Blog, du Clerge contemporain ; L'Ami de la Religion; 
L’Abbe Lyon net, le Cardinal Fesch. fragments biogra- 
phiques (Lyon, 1841, 2 vols. 8vo) ; La Verill sur le car- 
dintd Fesch (Lyon, 1842, 8vo) ; Thiers, Hist. da Consnlat 
et de V Empire, t. xiii ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog . Generate, 
xvii, 572. 

Fessler, Ionaz Aurelius, a Hungarian histori- 
an, was horn at Czorendorf, Lower Hungary, in July, 
175G. lie became a Capuchin in 1773, and in 1784 or 
1780 was appointed professor of Oriental languages 
and hermeneutics in the University of Lemberg. He 
afterwards joined the freemasons, and withdrew from 
the Capuchins. In 1787 the representation of a trag- 
edy of his, entitled Siclneg , which was denounced as 
impious, obliged him to retire to Silesia; here he be- 


FESTIVAL 


537 


FESTIVAL 


tendent of the Lutheran congregation at Petersburg, 
where he died Dec. 15, 1839. His principal works are, 
Marc-A urd, a historical novel (Bresl. 1790-92, 8 vols.): 

Matthias Corvinus (Bresl. 1793) : — Aristides u. The- 
mistokles (Berlin, 1792 and 1818, 3d ed.) : — Attila (Bres- ! 
lau, 1794): — Gesch. d. Ungam , etc. (Lpz. 1812-25): — 
Riickblicke a. meine 70 jaehrige Pifgerschaft (Breslau, 
1826). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gin. (Paris, 1857). 

Festival (properly nn, chag, toon/, “feast”), re- 
ligious, of the Israelites (compare Lev. xxiii). 
These were occasions of public religions observances, | 
recurring at certain set and somewhat distant inter- 
vals. In a certain sense, indeed, each day was such 
an occasion, for at the daily service two lambs of the 
first year were to be offered at the door of the taber- 
nacle; one in the morning, the other in the evening, 
a continual burnt-offering. With each lamb was to 
be offered one tenth of an ephah of flour, mingled with 
one fourth of a bin of fresh oil, for a meat-offering, 
and one fourth of a bin of wine for a drink-offering. 
Frankincense was to be placed on the meat-offering, a 
handful of which, with the frankincense, was to be 
burnt, and the remainder was to be eaten by the priest 
in the holy place, without leaven. The priests were 
to offer daily the tenth of an ephah of fine flour, half 
in the morning and half in the evening, for them- 
selves. The high-priest was to dress the lamps in the 
tabernacle every morning, and light them every even- 
ing; and at the same time burn incense on the altar 
of incense. The people provided oil for. the lamps 
which were to burn from evening to morning: the 
ashes were removed by a priest, dressed in his lin- 
en garment and his linen drawers, and then carried 
by him out of the camp in his common dress. Great 
stress was laid on the regular observance of these re- 
quirements (Numb, xxviii, 1-8; Exod. xxix, 38-42; 
Lev. vi, 8-23 ; Exod. xxx, 7-9 ; xxvii, 20; Lev. xxiv, 
1-4; Numb, viii, 2). See Daily Sacrifice. 

So, likewise, there was a weekly, a monthly, and a 
yearly festival, as will presently appear. At the Xeic- 
moon festival, in the beginning of the month, in addi- , 
tion to the daily' sacrifice, two heifers, one ram, and J 
seven Iambs of the first year were to be offered as i 
burnt-offerings, with three tenths of an ephah of flour, 
mingled with oil, for each heifer ; two tenths of an ! 
ephah of flour, mingled with oil, for the ram ; and one 
tenth of an ephah of flour, mingled with oil, for every 
lamb ; and a drink-offering of half of a hin of wine for 
a heifer, one third of a hin for the ram, .and one fourth 
of a bin for every lamb. One kid of the goats was 
also to be offered as a sin-offering (Numb, x, 10; 
xxviii, 11-15). See New Moon. 

I. Pre-exilian Festivals. — The religious times or- 
dained in the law fall under three heads : 1. Those for- 
mally connected with the institution of the Sabbath. 
These were the following: 

(1.) The weekly Sabbath itse[f. — On this day two 
lambs of the first year, without blemish, were to be of- 
fered for a burnt-offering, morning and evening, with 
two tenths of an ephah of flour, mingled with oil, for ; 
a meat-offering, and one half of a hin of wine for a 
drink-offering, thus doubling the offering for ordinary 
days. Twelve cakes of fine flour were to be placed 
every Sabbath upon the table in the tabernacle, in two 
piles, and pure frankincense laid on the uppermost of 
each pile. These were to be furnished bv the people ; 
two were offered to Jehovah, the rest were eaten by 
the priests in the holy place (Exod. xxxi, 12; Lev. 
xxiii, 1 ; xxvi, 2; Exod. xix, 3-30; xx, 8-11 ; xxiii, 
12 ; Deut. v, 12-15 ; Lev. xxiii, 3 ; xxiv, 5-9 ; Numb, 
xv, 35; xxviii, 9). Sec Saubatii. 

(2.) The seventh Xew Moon,, or Feast of Trumpets . — 
The first clay of the seventh month was to be a Sab- 
bath, a holy convocation, accompanied by the blowing 
of trumpets. In addition to the daily and monthly 
sacrifices, one ram and seven lambs were to be offered 


as burnt-offerings, with their respective meat-offer- 
ings, as at the usual New-moon festival (Numb, xxviii, 
11-15; xxix, 1-6; Lev. xxiii, 23-25). See Trum- 
pets, Feast of. 

The other septenar 3 r festivals were : (3.) The Sab- 
batical Year (q. v.), and (4.) The Year of Jubike (q. v.). 

2. The great feasts (Sari'S, set times ; in the Tal- 
mud, pilgrimage feasts ) are : the Passover ; the 

feast of Pentecost, of Weeks, of Wheat-harvest, or of 
the First-fruits; the feast of Tabernacles, or of In- 
gathering. In the arrangement of these festivals like- 
wise a sabbatical order remarkablj' prevails (compare 
Midrash Rabba on Lev. xxiii, 24), and serves to fur- 
nish a strong proof that the whole system of the festi- 
vals of the Jewish law was the product of one mind. 
Pentecost occurs seven weeks after the Passover; the 
Passover and the feast of Tabernacles last seven days 
each; the days of Holy Convocation are seven in the 
year — two at the Passover, one at Pentecost, one at 
the feast of Trumpets, one on the Day of Atonement, 
and two at the feast of Tabernacles ; the feast of Tab- 
ernacles, as well as the Day of Atonement, falls in the 
seventh month of the sacred year ; and, lastly, the cy- 
cle of annual feasts occupies seven months, from Nisan 
to Tisri. See Seven. 

On each of these occasions every male Israelite was 
commanded “to appear before the Lord,” that is, to 
attend in the court of the tabernacle or the Temple, 
and to make his offering with a joyful heart (Deut. 
xxvii, 7; Nell, viii, 9-12; comp. Josephus, A nt. xi, 5, 
5). The attendance of women w as voluntary, but the 
zealous often went up to the Passover, fi lms Mary 
attended it (Luke ii, 41), and Hannah (1 Sam. i, 7 ; ii, 
19). As might be supposed, there w as a stricter obli- 
gation regarding the Passover than the other feasts, 
and hence there was an express provision to ena- 
ble those who, by unavoidable circumstances or legal 
impurity, had been prevented from attending at the 
proper time, to observe the feast on the same day of 
the succeeding month (Numb, ix, 10-11). None were 
to come empty-handed, but every one was to give ac- 
cording as Jehovah had blessed him ; and there before 
Jehovah w r as every one to rejoice with his family, the 
Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow 
(Exod. xxxiii, 14-17; xxxiv, 22-24; Dent, xvi, 16, 17). 
On all the days of Holy Convocation there was to be 
an entire suspension of ordinary labor of all kinds 
(Exod. xii, 16; Lev. xvi, 29; xxiii, 21, 24, 25, 35). 
But on the intervening days of the longer festivals 
work might be carried on. The law' always speaks of 
the days of Holy Convocation as Sabbaths. But the 
Mishna makes a distinction, and states in detail w hat 
acts may be performed on the former, which arc un- 
lawful on the Sabbath, in the treatise Yom Tob ; w hile 
in Moal Katun it lays down strange and burdensome 
conditions in reference to the intermediate days. See 
Convocation, Holy. 

Brown lias spoken (Antiquities of the Jews, i, 522) of 
the defenceless state in which the country lay when 
all the males were gathered together at Jerusalem. 
What w'as to prevent an enemj' from devastating the 
land, and slaying women and children ? He refers 
the protection of the country to the express interposi- 
tion of God, citing “the promise,” as found in Exod. 
xxxiv, 23, 24. lie adds, “During the whole period 
between Moses and Christ we never read of an enemy 
invading the land at the time of the three festivals. 
The first instance on record was thirty-three years aft- 
er they had withdrawn from themselves the divine 
protection by imbruing their hands in tlie Saviour’s 
blood, when Cestius, the Uoman general, slew fifty of 
the people of Lvdda, while all the rest had gone up to 
the Feast of Tabernacles, A.D. 66” (Josephus, IFar, ii, 
19). The objection, however, which this waiter thus 
meets is founded on the assumption that the law was 
strictly, uniformly, and lastingly obeyed. But the re- 


FESTIVAL 


538 


FESTIVAL 


quirement that all males should appear three times a 
year before Jehovah is not without some practical dif- 
ficulty. During the sojourn in the wilderness its ob- 
servance would not only be easy, but highly useful in 
preventing the dispersion of individuals or numbers 
from the main body — an influence the more needful, 
because many persons would doubtless stray from 
time to time in search of pasture’. In subsequent and 
more settled times it must have been a serious incon- 
venience for all the males of the nation to leave their 
families unprotected and their business neglected for 
so many days every year as would be necessary in 
going to and from Jerusalem. It is true that the sea- 
sons of the festivals were well fixed and distributed 
for the convenience of an agricultural people. Yet 
to have to visit Jerusalem thrice in seven months was 
a scrion> thing, especially in later times, when Israel- 
ites were scattered f.ir abroad. Even if the expense 
was, as many think [see Assessment], a small con- 
sideration, yet the interruption to domestic life and the 
pursuits of business must have been very great ; nor 
would it be an exaggeration to say that the observance 
was an impossibility to the Jews, for instance, who 
were in Babylon, Egypt, Italy, Macedonia, Asia Mi- 
nor, etc. IIow far the law was rigorously enforced or 
strictly obeyed at any time after the settlement in 
Palestine, it would not be easy to say. Palfrey ( Lec- 
tures on th ? Jewish Scrip, i, 190) supposes that “a man 
might well be said to have virtually executed this duty 
who appeared before the Lord (not in person, but) with 
his offering, sent by the hand of a friend, as a suitor is 
said in our common speech to appear in a court of jus- 
tice when he is represented there by his attorney;” 
a conjecture which, to our mind, savors too much of 
modern ideas and usages. That some relaxation took 
place, at least in “the latter days,” appears from John 
vii, 8, in which more or less of what is voluntary is 
obviously connected in the mind and practice of our 
Lord with “ the feast,” though it nui.-t be allowed that 
the passage is an evidence of the general observance, 
not to say the universal obligation, in his days, of at 
least the feast of Tabernacles. If, however, there was 
in practice some abatement from the strict require- 
ments of the law, yet obviously time enough was saved 
from labor by the strong hand of religion to secure to 
the laborer a degree of most desirable and enviable 
rest. Not, indeed, that all the days set apart were 
emancipated from labor. At the feast of Tabernacles, 
for instance, labor is interdicted only on the first and 
the last day. So, on other occasions, business and 
pleasure were pursued in connection with religious ob- 
servances. Hut if all males appeared before Jehovah 
even only once a year, the}' must, in going and return- 
ing, as well as in being present at the festival, have 
spent no small portion of time in abstinence from their 
ordinary pursuits, and could not have failed to derive 
singular advantages alike to their bodies and their 
minds. The rest and recreation would be t lie more 
pleasant, salutary, and beneficial, because of the joyous 
nature of the religious services in which they were, 
for the greater part, engaged. These solemn festivals 
were not only commemorations of great national 
events, but they were occasions for the reunion of 
friends, for the enjoyment of hospitality, and for the 
interchange of kindness. The feasts which accom- 
panied the sacrifices opened the heart of the entire 
family to joy, and gave a welcome which bore a relig- 
ious sanction even to the stranger, the fatheilcss, and 
the widow (Miehaelis, Mas. Itccht , art. 199). On these 
solemn occasions food came partly from hospitality (a 
splendid instance of which may be found in 2 Chron. 
xxxv, 7 9), partly from the feasts which accompanied 
the sacrifices in the Temple, and partly also from pro- 
vision expressly made by tlie travellers ^themselves. 
It appears that the pilgrims to Mecca carry with them 
every kind of food that they need except flesh, which 
they procure in the city itself. Lodging, too, was af- 


forded by friends, or found in tents erected for the pur. 
pose in and around Jerusalem. See Hospitality. 

Besides their religious purpose, the great festivals 
must have had an important bearing on the mainte- 
nance of a feeling of national unity. This may be 
traced in the apprehensions of Jeroboam (1 Kings xii, 
2G, 27), and in the attempt at reformation by Heze- 
kiah (2 Chron. xxx, 1), as well as in the necessity 
which, in later times, was felt by the Roman govern- 
ment of mustering a considerable military force at Je- 
rusalem during the festivals (Josephus, Ant . xvii, 9, 
3 ; xvii, 10, 2 ; compare Matt, xxvi, 5 ; Luke xiii, 1). 
Another effect of these festivals Miehaelis has found 
in the furtherance of internal commerce. They would 
give rise to something resembling our modern fairs. 
Among the Mohammedans similar festivals have had 
this effect. In Article 199 the same learned writer 
treats of the important influence which the festivals 
had on the Calendar, and the correction of its errors. 
See Year. 

The agricultural significance of the three great fes- 
tivals is clearly set forth in the account of the Jewish 
sacred year contained in Lev. xxiii. The prominence 
which, not only in that chapter, but elsewhere, is given 
to this significance, in the names by which Pentecost 
and Tabernacles are often called, and also by the offer- 
ing of “ the first-fruits of wheat-harvest” at Pentecost 
(Exod. xxxiv, 22), and of “the first of the first-fruits” 
at the Passover (Exod. xxiii, 19; xxxiv, 26), might 
easily suggest that the origin of the feasts was patri- 
archal (Ewald, Alter (htimer, p. 385), and that the his- 
torical associations with which Moses endowed them 
were grafted upon their primitive meaning. It is per- 
haps, however, a difficulty in the way of this view that 
we should rather look for the institution of agricultu- 
ral festivals among an agricultural than a pastoral 
people, such as the Israelites and their ancestors were 
before the settlement in the land of promise. The 
times of the festivals were evidently ordained in wis- 
dom, so as to interfere as little as possible with the in- 
dustry of the people. The Passover was held just be- 
fore the work of harvest commenced, Pentecost at the 
conclusion of the corn-harvest and before the vintage, 
the feast of Tabernacles after all the fruits of the 
ground were gathered in. In winter, when travelling 
was difficult, there were no festivals. See Seasons. 

(1.) The first of these three great festivals, that of 
Unleavened Bread, called also the Passover, was kept 
in the month Abib, in commemoration of the rescue 
of the Israelites by Jehovah out of Egypt, which took 
place in that month. The ceremonies that wcie con- 
nected with it will he detailed under the head Pass- 
over. Every one who was ritually clean, and not 
on a journey, and yet omitted to keep the Passover, 
was to he cut off from the people. Any one who was 
disabled for the observance, either by nncleanness or 
being on a journey, was to keep the Passover on the 
fourteenth day of the next month. In order to make 
the season more remarkable, it was ordained that 
henceforward the month in which it took place should 
be reckoned the first of the national religious year 
(Exod. xii, 2). From this time, accordingly, the year 
began in the month Abib, or Nisan (March — April), 
while the civil year continued to he reckoned from 
Tisri (September — October) (Exod. xii, 3, 14, 27, 43- 
49; Lev. xxiii, 5; Numb, xxviii. 16; Dent, xvi, 1-7). 
The Passover lasted one week, including two Sabbaths 
(I)e Wette, Archiiolorj. p. 214). The first day and the 
last were holy, that is, devoted to the observances in 
the public temple, and to rest from all labor (Exod. 
xii, 16; Lev. xxiii, 6; Numb, xxviii, 18; Dent, xvi, 
8). The modern Jews observe the 15th and 16th, and 
the 20th and 21st- days of Nisan, as holy days in con- 
nection with this festival. See Nisan. 

On the day after the Sabbath, on the feast of Passo- 
ver, a sheaf of the first-fruits of the barley harvest 
w as to be brought to the priest to he waved before Je- 


FESTIVAL 


539 


FESTIVAL 


hovah, accompanied by a burnt-offering. Till this | 
sheaf was presented, neither bread nor parched com, 
nor full ripe ears of the harvest, could be eaten (Exod. 
xii, 15-20; xiii, G-10; Lev. xxiii, G-8; Deut. xvi, 2- 
8; Numb, xxviii, 17-25). See Harvest. 

(2.) The feast of Pentecost or of Weeks was kept to 
Jehovah at the end of seven weeks from that day of 
the festival of Unleavened Bread, on which the sheaf 
was presented. On the morrow after the seventh com- 
plete week, or on the fiftieth day, two wave loaves 
were presented as first-fruits of the wheat-harvest, to- 
gether with a burnt-offering, a sin-offering, and a peace- 
offering, etc. The day was a holy convocation, in 
which no servile work was done. The festival lasted 
but one day. The Jews of the present day, however, 
hold it during two successive days. It is said to have 
been designed to commemorate the giving of the law 
on Blount Sinai (Deut. xvi, 9-11 ; Lev. xiii, 15-21; 
Numb, xxviii, 26-31 ; xv, 17-21). See Pentecost. 

(3.) The feast of Ingathering or of Tabernacles be- 
gan on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, and 
continued eight days, the first and last being Sabbaths. 
During the feast all native Israelites dwelt in booths 
made of the shoots of beautiful trees, palm branches, 
boughs of thick-leaved trees, and of the willows of the 
brook, when they rejoiced with their families, Avitli the 
Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, be- 
fore Jehovah. Various offerings were made. At the 
end of every seven years, in the year of release, at the 
feast of Tabernacles, the law was required to be read 
by the priests in the hearing of all the Israelites (Dent, 
xvi, 13 15; xxxi, 10-13; Lev. xxiii, 39-43, 33-36; 
Numb, xxix, 12-38, 40). The feast of Tabernacles was 
appointed partly to be an occasion of annual thanks- 
giving after the ingathering of the harvest (Exod. 
xxxh r , 22; LeA\ xxiii, 39; Deut. x\d, 13), and partly 
to remind the Israelites that their fathers had lived in 
tents in the Avilderness (Le\*. xxiii, 40-43). This feast 
took place in the end of the year, September or Octo- 
ber. The modern Jcavs observe it for se\ T en success- 
ive days, the first two and the last two of Avhich are 
holy days. See Tabernacles, Feast of. 

(4.) The festival of A 'etc Years Day (. Rosk hash-Sha- 
nah in the Talmud) is held by modern Jews for two 
clays at the beginning of Tisri. See Trumpets, Feast 
of. 

3. The tenth day of the seA r enth month Avas the Day 
of Atonement — a day of abstinence, a day of holy con- 
vocation, in Avhich all Avere to afflict themselves. Spe- 
cial offerings Avere made (Lca\ xxiii, 26-32 ; xvi,l, 34 ; 
Numb, xxix, 7-11 ; Exod.xxx,10). See Atonement, 
Day of. 

II. Additional Post-exilian Festivals. — 1. The term 
“ the festival of the Basket” {top-n) KoprdAAou) is ap- 
plied by Philo {Opp. v, 51) to the offering of the first- 
fruits described in Deut. xxvi, 1-11, and occurring 
on the 16th of the first month (Nisan). See First- 
fruits. 

2. The Festival of A era , which avhs instituted by Si- 
mon Maecabauts, B.C. 141, to he celebrated on the 23d 
of the second month (Ijar), in commemoration of the 
capture and purifying of Acra (q. v.), and the expul- 
sion of the Hellenists from Jerusalem (1 Mace, xiii, 
50-52). See Maccabees. 

3. The Festival of Wood-carrying , as it Avas called 
( topn ) tmv £v\ otyop’uov), is mentioned by Josephus 
( War, ii, 17, G) and the Mishna ( Taanith , iv, 5). What 
appears to have been its origin is found in Neh. x, 34. 
It Avas celebrated on the 15th (21st) of the fifth month 
(Ah). See Xylofiioria. 

4. The Festival of Water -drawing (P n S Mrab 
i"CNV«lTi), Avhich Avas held on the 22d of the seventh 
month (Tisri), the last day of the feast of Tabernacles 
(comp. John vii, 37 ; Mishna, Succa , i\', 9 ; v, 1-3 ; sec 
Frey, De aqnx libatione infesto tabcrnaculorum , Altorf, 
1744). See Siloaji. 


5. The Festival of Dedication Avas appointed by Ju- 
das Maecabaens on occasion of the purification of the 
Temple and reconstruction of the altar after they had 
been polluted by Antiochus Epiphanes. The hatred 
of this monarch tOAvards the Jews had been manifest- 
ed in various Avays : he forbade their children to be 
circumcised, restrained them in the exercise of their 
religion, killed many avIio disobeyed his mandates, 
burnt the books of the laAv, set up idolatry, carried off 
the altar of incense, the shew-bread table, and the 
golden candlestick, Avith the other A'essels and treas- 
ures of the Temple, and Avent to such extremes as to 
sacrifice a sow upon the altar of burnt-offerings, build 
a heathen altar on the top of that sacred pile, and with 
broth of swine’s flesh to sprinkle the courts and the 
Temple (1 Mace, i; 2 Mace. A r ; Prideaux, sub A.C. 
167-8, 170). The new dedication took place on the 
25th day of the ninth month, called Kisleu, in the 
year before Christ 170. This Avould he in December. 
The day Avas chosen as being that on Avhich Antioehus, 
three years before, had polluted the altar by heathen 
sacrifices. The joy of the Israelites must ha\ r e been 
great on the occasion, and Avell may they haA'e pro- 
longed the observance of it for eight days. A general 
illumination formed a part of the festiwal, Avhence it 
obtained the name of the feast of Lights. In John x, 
22 this festh'al is alluded to Avlien our Lord is said to 
have been present at the feast of Dedication. The his- 
torian marks the time by stating “ it was Avinter.” 
(Compare 1 Maec. iv, 52-59; Mishna, Taanith , ii, 10; 
Moed Katon , iii, 9 ; Josephus, Ant. xii, 7, 7 ; Ap. ii, 39.) 
See Dedication, Feast of. 

6. The Festival of Nicanor, to commemorate the de- 
feat by Judas Maecabiens of the Greeks when the Jews 
“smote off Nicanor’s head and his right hand Avhich 
he stretched out so proudly,” caused “the people to 
rejoice greatly, and they kept that day a day of great 
gladness ; moreover, they ordained to keep yearly this 
day, being the thirteenth day of Adar’j — the twelfth 
month (1 Mace. A r ii,47 ; Josephus, Ant. xii, 10, 5; Taa- 
nith , xii; Tallin Jems. Taanith, ii, 13; Josippon Len- 
Gorion, iii, 22, p. 244, ed. Breitli.). See Nicanor. 

7. The Festival ofPurim or of Lots originated in the 
gratitude of the Jews in escaping the plot of Hainan 
designed for their destruction. It took its name from 
the lots which Avere cast before Haman by the astrolo- 
gers, who knew his hatred against Mordeeai and his 
Avish to destroy his family and nation (Esther iii, 7 ; 
ix, 2, 5). The feast Avas suggested by Esther and Mor- 
decai, and Avas celebrated on the 13th, 14th, and loth 
days of the tAvelfth month (Adar). The 13th Avas a 
fast, being the day on Avhich the Jcays Avere to have 
been destroyed ; and the 14th and 15th Avere a feast 
held in commemoration of their deliverance (see 2 
Macc. x\ r , 36). The fast is called the Fast of Esther, 
and the feast still holds the name ofPurim. Prideaux 
{Connex.') styles it the bacchanalia of the JeAvs. See 
Puri ji. 

The slaughter of Holofernes by the hand of Judith, 
the consequent defeat of the Assyrians, and the liber- 
ation of the Jeivs, Avere commemorated by the institu- 
tion of a festival (Judith xh r , xa’). See Holofernes. 
Some other minor festivals may be found noticed in 
Brown’s Antiquities , i,58G, and in Simon’s Dictionnaire 
de la Bible , art. “Fetes.” — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 
See Calendar, Jewish. 

Literature. — Josephus, A nt. ii— iii, xiii-xvii ; War, ii, 
3, 1, and many other places ; Philo, De Scjitenario et 
Festis diebus (I If/o/ rifQ *E/35o/«7C, Op. a oI. A r , p. 21, edit. 
Tauch.); the Mishna, Tracts respecting the Festivals , 
or *~IVV2 TlO ; especially the Talmudical tract Chagiga 
(Mishna, ii, 12), sice de irib. festis solemn, c. vers, et 
Bartenoree comment, (edit. Ludovici, Lips. 1696, 1712) ; 
also Hottinger, De irina comparitione Israel, corain 
Domino (Marb. 1707); Otho, Lex Bubb. p. 288; John- 
ston, Defstis Ilebmor . et Gracor. (Vratisl. 1660 ; Jen. 


FESTIVALS IX TIIE CHRIST. CII. 540 


FETTER 


1(170); Meyer, De tempor . ct festis dieb. Ifebrcror. (Amst. 
1724 ; also in Ugolini Thesanr. i) ; Credner, Joel , p. 
213 sq. ; Baur, in the Tilling. Zeitschr. 1832, iii, 125 sq. ; 
George, Die iilte jud. Fcste (Berlin, 1835); Fairbairn, 
Typology, ii, 403 sq. ; Meusel, Biblioth . hist or. I, ii, 108 
gq. ; liospimaniis, De Jest, diebus Judceor. Gracor. etc. 
(Zur. 1592) ; Pfriem, Defestiv. JItbrieor. (Bamb. 17G5) ; 
Selignninn, Das jud. Ceremoniell bei Festal (Hamburg, 
1722) ; Spencer, De Legibus Jlebraorum Ritualibus et 
drum raiionibus (Cantabrigiie, 1727); Biilir, Symbolik 
des Mosivisclun Cultus (Heidelberg, 1839), ii, 525 sq. ; 
Ewald, Die A Iterthumer des Volkes Israel (Gottingen, 
1854), p. 379 sq. ; De Fenarum Ilebrwarum oriyine ac 
ratione (Gottingie, 1841); Creuzer, Symbol, ii, 597; 
SaalschUtz, Archaologie der Ilebrder (Kdnigsb. 1855), 
p. 207 sq. ; Herzfeld, Gesckichte des Volkes Ismel (Nord- 
hausen, 1857), ii, 10G sq. ; Jost, Geschichte des Juden- 
thums (Leipzig, 1857), i, 158 sq. ; liaphall, Festivals of 
the Lord (bond. 1839) ; Hupfeld, De fastis Ileb. ex legi- 
bus Mosaic is (Hal. 18G5). See Sacrifice. 

Festivals in the Christian Church. See 
Feasts. 

Fes'tns (festal), Porcius (Griecized noo/noe 
(ttoc), the successor of Felix as procurator of Judaea 
(Acts xxiv, 27 ; Joseph. Ant. xx, 8, 9 ; War, ii. 14, 1), 
sent by Nero, probably in the autumn of A. I). 55. 
See Felix. A few weeks after Festus reached his 
province he heard the cause of the apostle Paul, who 
had been left a prisoner by Felix, in the presence of 
Ilerod Agrippa IL and Bernice his sister. Not find- 
ing any thing in the apostle worthy of death or of 
bonds, and being confirmed in this view by his guests, 
he would have set him free had it not been that Paul 
had himself previously (Acts xxv, 11, 12) appealed to 
Cresar. In consequence, Festus sent him to Pome. 
See Paul. Judaea was in the same disturbed state 
during the procuratorship ol' Festus, which had pre- 
vailed through that of his predecessor. Sicarii, rob- 
bers, and magicians were put down with a strong hand 
(2 Mb xx, 8, 10). Festus had a difference with the 
Jews at Jerusalem about a high wall which they had 
built to prevent Agrippa seeing from his palace into 
the court of the Temple. As this also hid the view of 
the Temple from the Roman guard appointed to watch 
it during the festivals, the procurator took strongly 
the side of Agrippa, but permitted the Jews to send 
to Rome for the decision of the emperor. He, being 
influenced by Poppaia, who was a proselyte (Joseph. 
Ant. xx, 8, 11), decided in favor of the Jews. Festus 
probably died in the summer of A.D. G2, and was suc- 
ceeded by Albinus (Joseph. War, xx, 9, 1). The 
chronological questions concerning his entrance on the 
province and his death are too intricate and difficult to 
be entered on here, but will be found fully discussed 
by Anger, De temporum in A ct. . I post, ratione , p. 99 sq. ; 
and Wieseler, Chronologie der Apostelgeschichte, p. 89- 
99. See also Chronology. Josephus implies () Var, 
ii, 14, 1) that Festus was a just as well as an active 
magistrate. — Smith, s. v. 

Fetichism or Fetishism, a term recently intro- 
duced to denote the lowest forms of human worship, 
“in which the shapeless stone, the meanest reptile, or 
any object however worthless or insignificant, is conse- 
crated by a vague and mysterious reverence” (Milman). 
It is derived from Feitico , a term borrowed from the 
Portuguese fetisso , and used by the negroes of Senegal 
to denote an instrument of witchcraft. It was first 
brought into use in Europe by De Drosses, in his Du 
Culte des Dienx Fetiches (I)ijon, 17G0). Fetichism is 
practised in Greenland, Africa, Australia, and Liberia. 
The fetiches in use in Africa are either natural (as a 
tiger, serpent, etc.) or artificial (as skins or claws of 
beasts, stones, etc.). Sometimes a single fetich is 
made the object of worship for a whole tribe, e. g. the 
tiger in Dahomey, the serpent by the Whvdahs. The 
negroes of Benin make a fetich of their own shadows. 
But, besides these, each individual almost has his own 


particular fetich or fetiches. Any object may become 
one by the merest accident ; e. g. by having been the 
subject of a dream. When any one has a fetich sup- 
posed to possess extraordinary powers of injuring oth- 
ers, no efforts are spared to get it from the owner. 
Collections of them are highly prized, and a traveller 
on the coast of Guinea saw as many as 20,000 fetiches 
in the possession of one negro. Sometimes they are 
purely imaginary, and are fantastic forms, such as are 
never found in nature, and generally contrived for the 
purpose of producing fear. At Cape Coast there is a 
public guardian fetich, supreme in power and dignity. 
This is a rock which projects into the sea from the 
bottom of the cliff on which the castle is built. To 
this rock annual sacrifices are presented, and the re- 
sponses given through the priests are rewarded by the 
blinded devotees. 

With regard to the religious relation between the 
fetiches and their worshippers, we find that, although 
undoubtedly sinking often to the rank of mere instru- 
ments of sorcery in practice, fetiches are yet essen- 
tially idols. They receive, every morning and even- 
ing, offerings of spices, milk, tobacco, etc., and are 
always approached with marks of respect and of fear. 
They are resorted to for protection against lightning, 
beasts of prey, murder, etc. They also serve to pro- 
tect property, to attest oaths, and the negroes have 
even a vague idea that after death they will have to 
render an account to their fetiches. Yet the moral 
hold of the fetich over its worshipper is, after all, very 
weak ; the object of worship is discarded or broken as 
soon as its efficacy is distrusted. 

Substantially, fetichism is a rude form of pantheism. 
Its root is to be found in the fear generated in the rude 
nature of the savage by the unknown forces of the 
universe. — Herzog, Real-Kncyklop. iv, 395; Seholten, 
Geschichte der Relig. und Philosophic (Elberfeld, 18G8) ; 
Leekv, Rationalism , i, 208 sq. ; Hardwick, Christ and 
other Masters, ii, 127. 

Fetter (pT, zek, bond or chain in general, only in 
the plur. Job xxxvi, 8, 
elsewhere “chains,” Psa. 
cxlix,8; Isa. xlv, 14; Nall, 
iii, 10; bz?, ke'bd, sing, 
perhaps the link joining 
the fetter, Psa. cv, 18 ; 
plur. and of iron, cxlix, 8; 




Ancient Assyrian Handcuffs and Fetters for Captives. 



necho'sheth, bra* 
zen, in the dual, the ap- 
propriate term, Lam. iii, 
7; Judg. xvi, 21; 2 Sam. 
iii, 34 ; 2 Kings xxv, 7 ; 
Jer. xxxix, 7; Iii, 11; 
Trio;, implying that they 
were for the feet, in the 
plur., Mark v, 4; Luke 
viii, 29 ; Ecelus. vi, 24, 
29 ; xxi, 19), shackles or 
chains for binding pris- 
oners, whether hv the 
wrists or ankles. The 
Philistines bound Sam- 
son with fetters of cop- 
per (J udg. xvi, 21). Ma- 
nasseh and Zedekiah, 
kings of Judah, were 


FEUGUIERES 


541 


FEUILLANTS 


bound with fetters by the Chaldeans and carried to 
Babylon (2 Chron. xxxiii, 11 ; 2 Kings xxv, 7). ^lun- 
acies for the feet and hands are represented on the As- 
syrian monuments (Layard, Nineveh , ii, 370; Kitto, 
Daily Bible Illustrations, ii, 437). See Chain. One 
mode of securing prisoners among the Egyptians, as 
depicted on the monuments, was to enclose their hands 
in an elongated fetter of wood, made of two opposite 
segments, nailed together at eacli end, such as are 
used for a similar purpose in Egypt at the present day 
(Wilkinson, Ancient Egyptians , i, 410, abridgm.). 

Feudal System. See Fief. 

Feuguieres. Guillaume, was bom at Rouen. In 
his native place he became minister of the Reformed 
Church. In 1578, at the recommendation of prince 
William the First, he was appointed first professor of 
theology in the recently founded University of* Ley- 
den. His influence was of decided advantage to the 
new institution, but his connection with it was of short 
continuance. In 1579 he resigned his professorship, in 
order to accept the pressing invitation of his former 
charge to again become their pastor. There' he spent 
the remainder of his days, and died in 1G13 at an ad- 
vanced age. lie wrote several works in Latin, of 
which we deem the following most worthy of mention : 
G. Feuguereii propheticce et apostolicce , i. e. totius dirinic 
et cannnicce scriptures thesaurus , in locos communes re- 
rum, dogmatum suis divinis exemplis illustrator urn, et. 
phraseun scriptural familiarium, online alphibetlco An- 
gustini Marhrati adversariis (Loud. 1574 ; reprinted at 
Berne in 1601, and at Geneva in 1624. A compendium 
of it was published at Geneva in 1613) : — Novum Tes- 
tament um latine , ex versions et cum annotationibus Th. 
Bez e, panels etiam odditis ex Joachimi Camerarii nota- 
tionibus, studio Petri Loselerii Villerii, theolog. profess. 
Genevensis, et nunc post re mo G. F. opera (bond. 1587). 
See B. Glasius, Godgeleerd Nederland , Deel i, biz. 464 
en verv. ; also Soermans, A cad. Be gist. bl. 32 ; Paquofc, 
i, frag. 178. (,T. P. W.) 


chapter held in 1592, under the presidency of the Do- 
minican monk Alexander De Francis, subsequently 
bishop of Forli, he was deposed from his position, for- 
bidden to say mass, and required to report himself 
once every month to the Inquisition. A revision of the 
trial ln r cardinal Baronins led, however, to the acquit- 
tal of La Barriere. Pope Clement VI 1 1 fully dissolved 
the connection of the new congregation with Citeaux, 
placed them under the immediate jurisdiction of the 
papal see, and commissioned six of the members with 
framing new statutes. These new statutes provided 
for the mitigation of some of the rules, the rigor of 
which, it w f as reported, had caused the death of four- 
teen members, and they received the sanction of the 
Church in 1595. The congregation now spread in 
France and Italy, and at its head in France was an ab- 
bot elected for three years. As discipline again began 
to slacken, pope Urban VIII in 1630 divided the con- 
gregation into two — the French, called after Notre 
Dame de Feuillants. and the Italians, the members of 



Feuillants ( Feuillants , Congregatio be at re Maris 
Fattens is), a reformed congregation of the Cistercians 
(q. v.). Their founder, Jean de la Barriere, of the fam- 
ily of the Yicomtcs de Turennes, was born at St. Cere 
in 1544, and finished his education at the University 
of Paris. In 1562, when only 18 years of age, he re- j 
ceived the Cistercian abbey of Notre Dame de Feuil- 
lans in commend am , and three years later took posses- j 
sion of it. After having received the income of the 
abbey for eleven months, he entered the order himself. 
His efforts to restore a stricter monastic discipline met 
with the unanimous opposition of the members of the 
abbey, and he was even in danger of being assassina- 
ted. He was charged at the chapter general held at 
Citeaux with introducing innovations, but his defence 
made so deep an impression that many of the assem- 
bled monks placed themselves under his spiritual guid- 
ance, and enabled him to carry through a thorough 
reformation in his abbey. La Barriere and his friends 
now suffered a great deal of persecution from the old 
Cistercians; but their reformation was, in 158G and 
1587, approved by the pope, though they remained sub- 
ject, with regard to such points as were not at vari- j 
anee with their new discipline, to the abbot of Citeaux. 
Other abbeys were authorized to adopt the reformation 1 
of Feuillans, and pope Sixtus Y gave them the house ! 
of San Yito at Rome, to which, after a time, was add- 
ed the house of St. Pudentiana, and somewhat later a 
beautiful monastery. In 1588 Henry III gave them a 
monastery in Paris. During the civil war La Barriere 
remained loyal to Henry III, whose funeral sermon he 
preached at Bordeaux, but many members of the or- 
der became ardent partisans of the Ligue. One of 
them, Bernard de Montgaillard, became celebrated un- 
der tlie name of “ The Little Feuillant.” By these 
partisans of the Ligue, La Barriere was denounced as 
a traitor to the interests of the Catholic Church. At a | 


A member of the French Con- Member of the Italian Congre- 
gregation of Feuillants. gation of Feuillants or Ke 

formed Bernardinos. 

which w r ere called reformed Bernardines. At the head 
of each was henceforth a general. Subsequently con- 
siderable alterations were made in the statutes of each 
(of the French in 1634, of the Italian in 1667). Among 
the most celebrated members of the two congregations 
belong cardinal Bona and Cosmus Roger. Joseph Mc- 
ratius wrote their history ( Cistercii rejlorescentis seu 
Congregationum Cistercio-Moncisticarum B. M. Fuliensis 
in Gallia et ref or mat o- 
rum S. Bernanli in Italia 
chronologica historia, Tu- 
rin, 1690). 

The first convent of 
nuns according to the 
reformed rule of Feuil- 
lants was organized in 
1588 at Montesquieu. It 
was subsequently trans- 
ferred to Toulouse. Tlie 
chapters general held in 
1595 and 1598 forbade 
the establishment of new 
convents, but in 1662 the 
wife of king Louis XIII 
succeeded in establish- 
ing one in Paris. Ac- 
cording to a bull of Cle- 
ment YI 1 1 of 1606, these 
nuns were subject to all 

the rules of the con-re- Nim ° f tlle of Feu- 

• _ _ ... - lilanta. 

gation of the feuillants. 

It seems that the congregation has become entirely 
extinct in consequence of the French Revolution. — 
Ilelyot, Ordres Religieux , ed. Mignc, s. v. ; Henrion- 



FEVER 


542 


FICHTE 


Fehr, Monchsordch, i, 159 ; Wetzer u. AYeltc, Kirchen- 
Lex . iv, 61. (A. J. 8.) 

Fever, the rendering, in the A. A'., of the Hebrew 
nrnp, Icaddach' ath (Deut. xxviii, 22), and the Greek 
'TrvpLTvQ (Mat. viii, 34 ; Mark i, 90; Luke iv, 38 ; John 
iv, 52; Acts xxviii, 8). Doth the Hebrew and Greek 
words are derived from the association of burning heat, 
which is the usual symptom of a febrile attack; the 
former coming from the verb Hpp, to burn , the latter 
from Trip, f re (comp. Aram. iW-'t from w D ; Goth. 
brinno , from brinnan , to burn ; L nt.febris, and our own 
fever, from /mere). In Lev. xxvi, 1G, the A. V. ren- 
ders rrnp by burning ague,” but the rendcringye- 
ver seems better, as it is not necessarily the intermit- 
tent type of the disease which is thus designated. In 
all Eastern climates febrile diseases are common, and 
in Syria and Palestine they are among the commonest 
and severest inflictions under which the inhabitants 
suffer (Uussell’s Aleppo, bk. v, ch. iii). They are espe- 
cially prevalent in the vicinity of Capernaum (Thom- 
son, Land and Boole , i, 547). The fever under which 
Peter’s wife’s mother suffered is called by Luke 7 zvpt- 
tLq piyag, “ a great fever, ” and this has been regarded 
as having reference to the ancient scientific distribu- 
tion of fevers into the great and the less (Galen, De 
dijj'.febv. j see AVctstein, in loc.), and as an instance 
of Luke's professional exactitude in describing disease. 

1 1 is use of 7rvperoi in the plural in describing the dis- 
ease under which the father of Publius labored (Acts 
xxviii, 8) has also been adduced as an instance of the 
same kind, inasmuch as that disease was, from its be- 
ing conjoined with dysentery, not a continuous, but an 
intermittent fever. To this much importance cannot 
be attached, though it is probable th. t Luke, as a phy- 
sician, would naturally use the technical language of 
his profession in speaking of disease. In Deut. xxviii, 
22, besides rp pp, two diseases of the same class are 
mentioned, rp^P, dalle' hctli, a burning (A. A". “ inflam- 
mation”), and “rpn, charchnr , intense parching (A. 
V. “extreme burning”). The Sept, renders the for- 
mer of these by p/yoc, shivering, and the latter by ip:- 
6t(Tft6c . a w’ord which is used by the Greek writers on 
medicine to designate u quodvis Nature irritamentum, 
quo sollicitata natura ad oheundas motioncs excitatur” 
(Foes, Occon . Ilippoc.'). The former is probably the 
ague, a disease of frequent occurrence in the East; 
and the latter probably dysentery, or some species of 
inflammatory fever. The Syriac version renders it by 
burning , which favors the latter suggestion. Rosen- 
m filler inclines to the opinion that it is the catarrhus 
svjfocans, but this is without probability. There is no 
ground for supposing it to be erysipelas. Fever con- 
stant^' accompanies the bloody flux or dysentery (Acts 
xxviii, 8; compare De Mandelslo, Travels , ed. 16G9, p. 
G5). Fevers of an inflammatory character are men- 
tioned (Burckhardt, Arab, i, 44 G) as common at Mecca, 
and putrid ones at Jedda. Intermittent fever and dys- 
entery, the latter often fatal, are ordinary Arabian dis- 
eases. For the former, though often fatal to stran- 
gers, the natives care little, but much dread a relapse. I 
These fevers sometimes occasion most troublesome 
swellings in the stomach and legs (ii, 290-291). — Kit- 
to, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Disease. 

Few, Ignatius A., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, lie was born in Columbia Coun- 
ty, Georgia, April, 1791. About the year 1804 he v'as 
sent North to be under the care of his uncle, then resid- 
ing in New' York, for the benefits of a Northern edu- 
cation. lie was prepared for college by a Mr. Trapha- 
gen, at Bergen, N. J., and afterwards went to Prince- 
ton, but, instead of entering tli£ regular college course, 
he preferred devoting himself to such accomplishments 
as music and French, drawing and fencing. After re- 
maining at Princeton some time lie went to the city 


of New York, and after prosecuting his studies there a 
short time he returned to Georgia. lie commenced 
the stiuby of law, but after his marriage, which took 
place in 1811, he gave up his legal pursuits, and settled 
down into the life of a planter, from w hich he was only 
aroused by an appointment as colonel of a regiment to 
repair to Savannah in 1815. At the end of the war he 
returned to his studies with such intensity as to lead to 
the neglect of his business and the loss of his property. 
In the year 1823 he removed to Augusta, and engaged 
in the practice of the law' with flattering success, but 
in 1824 he w r as attacked with hemorrhage of the lungs, 
and from that time w r as unable to attend to the duties 
of his profession, and never afterwards fully regained 
his health. At this period of his life a great change 
in his character took place. Heretofore he had been 
inclined to one or other of the forms of scepticism, but 
Fletcher’s Appeal to Matter of Fact and Common St nse, 
falling in his w r av, his scepticism w'as dissipated, and 
his heart opened to the influence of Christianity. In 
1828 lie w'as admitted on trial in the South Carolina 
Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. “ Not- 
withstanding he w’as always an invalid from the 
time he entered the ministry, he performed a great 
amount of labor, and filled some of the most important 
places in the gift of his denomination. lie was the 
projector, and for a time the president, of Emory Col- 
lege, at Oxford, Ga., and rendered important service 
to the cause of education and sound morals.” The de- 
gree of LL.D. was conferred upon Air. Few' by the 
AVeslevan University in 1838. Dr. Few'’s last public 
act w'as the drawing up of the report on the division 
of the Methodist Church, which was adopted l>v the 
Georgia Conference in 1845. The excitement pro- 
duced by this effort v'as too much for his strength, 
and, though he partially rallied and lingered during 
the greater part of the year, his debilitated constitu- 
tion sank ; t last, and he died in great peace at Athens, 
Ga., Nov. 21, 1815, and w'as buried in Oxford, t lie seat 
c f Emory College. He left a widow', but no children. 
— Sprague, Annals, vii, 739. 

Fiacre, Saint, an Irish hermit, who died at Breuil 
(Brie), in France, about G70. lie w’as originally called 
in France Fefre, and, according to some writers, the 
name Fiacre was given to him about five or six hun- 
dred years after his death. Little is known about his 
life. According to some w'riters, he descended from 
an illustrious Irish family ; according to others, he was 
the son of a king of Scotland. lie came to France 
with some companions while still very young, culti- 
vated a tract of land, and built cells for himself and 
his companions, and an asylum for foreigners. An 
Irish or Scotch nobleman, by the name of Chillen, in- 
duced him to preach in the neighboring provinces, and 
his sermons are said to have had great results. lie 
was buried in his oratory at Breuil, and subsequently 
an oratory was erected on the spot. His relics became 
quite celebrated, as a number of miracles were ascribed 
to them ; as, for instance, bv queen Ann, wife of Louis 
XIII. In the former province of Artois, w here lie is 
the object of a particular veneration, he is commemo- 
rated on the 13th of November. He is aLo the patron 
of the gardeners, who commemorate him on the 30th of 
August. A class of four-wheeled French carriages, 
which became common in the 17th century, are said 
by some to have been named after him, as the invent- 
or had on his sign the w'ords A Saint. Fiacre ; but oth- 
ers explain the origin of the word differently. Some 
writers make mention of a letter written by Fiacre to 
bis sister Svrn, and containing some exhortations. — . 
Hoofer, Xouvelle Biographic Ginerale , xvi’, G14. (A. 

J. S.) 

Fichte, Joiiann Oottlier, a German philoso- 
pher, was horn May 19, 17G2, at the village of Ram- 
mcnau, near Bischofswerda, in Lusatia. The baron 
Miltetz, struck with the promise of the boy, assumed 


FICHTE 


543 


FICHTE 


the charge of his education. At thirteen he was 
placed in the gymnasium of Schulpforte, and while 
there he imbibed (from reading Lessing) a spirit of 
free inquiry which animated his whole intellectual 
life. At eighteen he entered the University of Jena 
as a student of theology, and while there he seems to 
have adopted the philosophy and theology of Spinoza. 
But the sense of “ personality” soon lifted him out of 
that abyss. The death of baron Miltetz threw him on 
his own resources, and privation added strength to his 
character. For a while he was tutor in a family at 
Zurich, and in 1790 he went to Leipzig, where he suf- 
fered greatly from poverty. “I have nothing,” he 
writes, “excepting courage left.” Kant’s Kritik tier 
reinen Vernunft (the Criticism of Pure Beacon) wrought 
a revolution in his mode of thinking, and freed his mind 
entirely from the remains of Determinism. “I now 
heartily believe in the freedom of man, and am well 
convinced that it is only on this supposition that duty, 
virtue, and morality is so much as possible. . . . It is 
now evident to me that the doctrine of the necessity 
of all human actions is the source of a great part of 
the immorality of the so-called higher classes” (. Letter 
to Achelis, 1790). In 1791 he went to Warsaw to till a 
place as private tutor, but soon threw it up in disgust, 
and on his way home stopped at Ivdnigsberg to visit 
Kant (June, 1791). Not finding at first a very cordial 
reception, he wrote, between July 13 and Aug. 18, his 
Kri.ik alter Ojenbarung (Criticism of all passible Rev- 
elation), and laid it before Kant, as an introduction of 
“his mind” to that philosopher. Kant was, indeed, con- 
ciliated ; but yet, when Fichte soon after asked for a 
small loan to help him forward, Kant refused. The 
book appeared in the spring of 1792, and attracted 
universal attention. It was cveiy where ascribed to 
Kant, who was compelled to name Fichte as the au- 
thor, in order to disclaim it completely for himself. 
The work seeks to determine the necessary conditions 
under which revelation must be given by God to man, 
and to lay down the criteria by which every professed 
revelation must be tested. In October, 1792, Fichte 
was married, and took up his abode with his father-in- 
law (Kahn) at Zurich, where he spent several months. 
Here he published a work on the French Revolution 
(1793, 2 vols.), in which lie advocated the modern 
principle that no political constitution can be un- 
changeable ; and that the best constitution is that 
which carries in itself the principle of progress, and 
provides a method for its own change and improve- 
ment. He was charged with Jacobinism and democ- 
racy on account of this work. In 1794 he became pro- 
fessor of philosophy at Jena, as successor of Reinhold. 
Ilis lectures awakened great enthusiasm among the 
students. Part of them were published under the title 
D'e Best immune/ ties Gelehrten (transl. by W. Smith, The 
Vocation of the Scholar , London, 1847, 12mo). In 1795 
he published 1 Vissenscha fsleh re (Doctrine of Knowl- 
edge), and in 1798 his Sittenlehre (Doctrine of Ethics). 
The freedom and novelty of the doctrines taught in 
these lectures, together with the fact -that he delivered 
many of them on Sunday (sec below), brought upon him 
a charge of atheism, w'hich he vigorously repelled in 
his Appellation g°gen die A nklage des Atheismus. Nev- 
ertheless, he was compelled to resign his chair in 1799. 
He went to Berlin and delivered private lectures, 
which were very popular ; and in 1800 he published his 
Bestinimung des J fenschen (transl. by Mrs. Sinnett un- 
der the title The Destination of Man, Lond. 184G, 12mo). 
In 1805 he held the chair of philosophy at Erlangen 
for a few months. Between 1805 and 1807 he pub- 
lished lectures, Ueber das i Vesen des Gelehrten (transl. 
by AY . Smith under the title The Nature of the Scholar 
and its Manifestations, Lond. 1851, 12mo); lectures de- 
livered at Berlin on Grundzuge d s gegemoartigen Zeit- 
alters (transl. by YV. Smith, The Characteristics of the 
present Age , London, 1847, 12mo); and A nwemmg znm 
seligeji Leben, oder die Religionslehre , the most impor- 


tant of his later writings, as giving what he considered 
to be the ethical and religious results of his philosophy 
(translated by W. Smith, The Way towards the blessed 
L fe , or the Doctrine of Religion , London, 1849, 12mo). 

< Returning to Berlin in 1807, he published Redea an die 
Deutsche Nation (Addresses to the German People), 
j which awakened great political enthusiasm. On the 
| restoration of peace lie was called by the king to aid. 
in reorganizing the University of Berlin, and in 1810 
1 he was made rector of the university, which then in- 
[ eluded among its faculty Schleiermacher, Neander, 
De Wette, Von Humboldt, and other brilliant names. 
During the subjection of Germany to Napoleon, much 
of Fichte’s time and thoughts were given to politics; his 
patriotism was pure, fervent, and self-sacrificing. Af- 
ter the great battles of 1813, the hospitals were filled 
with wounded men, and his wife was an assiduous and 
devoted nurse. She was seized with typhoid fever 
early in 1814, and her husband imbibed the infection 
from her; she recovered, but he died, Jan. 27, 1814. 
His son, Immanuel Hermann (horn in 1797), inherited 
his father’s aptitudes to a certain extent, has edited 
his works, and has also vindicated him from the charge 
of atheism and irreligion. Besides the works of J. G. 
Fichte already mentioned, we name Grundlage des Na- 
tur-Rechts (Jena, 17G7-9, 2 parts): — Die Thatsachen des 
Bewusstseyns (Stuttgard, 1817). The following were 
edited by his son after his death : Nachyelassene Werke 
(Bonn, 1834, 3 vols.) : — Religions-philosoph'sche Schrif- 
ten (Berlin, 1847): — Populdrphilos. Schriften (Berlin, 
1807, 7 vols.) : — Brief ivechsel mit Schilling (Stuttgard, 
1853): — j, G. Fichte's Siimmtliche Werke (Berlin, 1845 
sq. 8 vols.). 

We can give only a summary view of the attempts 
of Fichte to found a complete philosophy. Histori- 
cally he stands between Kant and Hegel, and forms 
the point of transition from the one to the other. 
“ The end which Fichte proposes to himself in his IF/s- 
senschaftslehre is to give to science a true, that is to 
say, an absolute principle, reposing only upon itself, 
and leaving a basis to all the rest. Here the idealism 
of Kant is accepted in all its rigor. There is no longer 
any arbitrarily supposed objective element, even as a 
simple phenomenon. All is severely deduced from 
the subject, the sole term of knowledge admitted by 
idealism. Fichte’s problem is just this : to bring out 
philosophy whole and entire from the Ego; and this 
hold reasoner proposes to give his deduction a more 
than mathematical exactitude. Algebra rests upon 
the law of identity, which is thus expressed: A — A. 
Fichte maintains that this law implies another, the 
only one which a philosopher is entitled to admit with- 
out proof, and also the only one which he requires : 
Me — Me. When you say A— A, you intend to affirm 
nothing upon the existence of A. Yon only affirm 
that if A is A, A can he nothing else than A. The 
proposition A— A is therefore, says Fichte, absolute 
only in its form, and not in its matter or contents. I 
know not if A exists practically and materially or not ; 
but it matters not. I am formally certain that given 
A, A cannot differ from A, and that there is necessary 
relation between these two terms. It is by the analy- 
sis of this relation that Fichte undertakes to prove the 
existence of Ego. In the proposition A — A, he ar- 
gues, the first A is not considered under the same point 
of view as the second. The first A, as we have seen, 
is laid down conditionally, the second absolutely. 
What reduces these two terms to unity, puts them in 
a certain relation, judges, affirms, and constitutes this 
relation ? Evidently the Ego. Take away the Ego , 
and you take away the relation, the two terms, the 
proposition A=A. Above it, then, there is a higher 
and more immediate truth. The principle of identity 
is only absolute in form ; the principle Me — Me is ab- 
solute both in form and matter; it alone is truly abso- 
lute. I need not follow Fichte in the course of his 
deduction, the most subtle and artificial which can be 


FICHTE 


544 


FICHTE 


corrceived. It is enough for me to know that he pushed | stripping off all associations of created things from the 


to the utmost the strange idea of deducing a vast sys- 
tem of philosophy from this one principle, the Ego. 
The Ego alone is the principle, explaining, laying 
down, creating itself. I know not whether I should 
wonder more at the excess of extravagance to which 
the human mind may be carried, or at the amazing 
richness of its resources. By Kant it was condemned 
to lie ignorant of the universe and of God, locked up 
in the prison of the Ego. Let him alone. This one , 


idea of the Creator, lest he should be dragged down 
into the sphere of the finite. The human mind is too 
apt to think of God in an anthropomorphitic manner. 
Fichte was a teacher of academic youth. At his feet 
sat many who were destined to proclaim to Christian 
congregations the God of the Gospel; a God who is 
only Creator if there are creatures of his creation, who 
has called a world into being, not as a visionary world, 
but as an actual and real one; a world in which fin, 


reserved point will give him back all the rest. From misery, and affliction appear but too real, from -which 
the furthest limits of skepticism he will even pass to the mere imagination that they do not exist cannot 


the most absolute dogmatism. But a little while ago 
he doubted of everything. Now he vaunts, not merely 
that he knows Nature, but that he creates her. Nay, 
he vaunts that lie creates God. Such arc the very 
expressions, at once absurd and logical, of Fichte. 
He draw's nature and God from the Eg). The Ego 


save us, but which can only be removed by a higher 
reality, a divine fact, by God’s act of love, as it ap- 
pears historically in the redemption through Chrbt. 
If now the ground were taken from under the feet of 
those destined to proclaim such a doctrine, if nothing 
religious remained for them but their miserable Ego, 


implies the Non-Ego. It, limits itself. It is only it- of which they w r ere not even as fully and energetically 
self by opposing to itself another which is not itself, j conscious as Fichte of his, must not many just scru- 
It poses itself only by opposing its contrary. It is it- pies have arisen in the minds of those, too, w ho were 
self the link of this opposition, the synthesis of this not accustomed to restrain the freedom of investiga- 
antinomy. In fact, if the Ego only exists for itself, tion hastily? Hence Fichte was charged wdtli no less 
the facility of self-limitation which it possesses implies an error than atheism, ami to this day the learned are 


that, 'in itself, it is infinite and illimitable. Beyond 
the divisible and relative Ego., opposed to the Non-Ego , 
there is, therefore, an absolute Ego, comprising nature 
and man. This absolute Ego is God. Here, then, is 
thought in possession of its three essential objects; 


not agreed whether this oft-abused term may be ap- 
plied to Fichte’s system as represented in his UTssen- 
schaftslehre . To this must be added, as Fichte him- 
self remarks, that his democracy was as much a thorn 
in the eyes of his opponents as his atheism. The fact 


here are man, nature, and God, in their necessary re- that he disregarded all established customs offended 
lation, -members of one identical thought, with three many. lie chose Sunday for delivering moral lec- 
terms, at once separated and reconciled ; here is a phi- turcs to the students. In this the Consistory of Wei- 
losophv worthy of the name ; a rigorous, demonstra- mar, of which at that time Herder was a member, 
ted, homogeneous science, starting from one great thought they recognised the secret intention of gradu- 
principle to follow out and to exhaust all its eonse- ally undermining public worship, although Fichte 
quences. protested solemnly against this, and appealed to the 

Such, in its general principle, is the metaphysics , example of Gcllcrt, wdiose moral lectures had also 


been delivered on Sunday, and w hy not then the phil- 
osophical lecture-room ? The dispute about reading 
lectures on Sunday was, however, only the prelude to 
a fiercer contest. Fichte published a work On the 
Grounds of cur Faith in the Divine Government rf the 
World , in which the moral order of the world was de- 
noted as God, and the assertion was made that we 
need and can conceive of no other God. ‘The exist- 
ence of this God cannot be doubted ; it is the most cer- 
tain of all things, and the ground of all other certain- 
ty ; but the idea of God as a particular substance is 
impossible and contradictory. It is proper to say this 
candidly to strike down the prating of the schools, so 
that the true religion of doing light cheerfully may be 
elevated.’ Many pious minds, of course, took t Hence 
at these expressions. Although Fichte might l e sat- 
isfied with this moral order of the world, the Christian's 
faith in God , a faith, too, in ‘doing light cheerfully,’ 
but at the same time in a real God, could by no means 
be content with this philosophical theory. This faith 
would not, however, have been destroyed by this the- 
ory, even if no interdiction had been issued against it. 
Such an interdiction appeared. The book in which 
Fichte advocated the theory of the divine order of the 
-world w r as attacked in the electorate of Saxony, and 
from this place the attention of the court at Weimar 
was called to the dangers of Fichte’s doctrine, ‘as one 
not only openly hostile to the Christian, but even to 
natural religion.’ . . . It. is remarkable in the case of 
Fichte that, after he had removed himself farthest 
from the common Christian feeling, he was led nearer 
and nearer it again. . . . After Fichte had called at- 
tention to the deep importance of faith, in the book Die 
Bestimmung des Menschen; after he had pointed out 
(transl. by Gage and Stuckenberg, N. Y. 18(15): “ It the importance of Christianity ‘as the only true rclig- 


of Fichte. His morality is a logical, though perhaps 
unforeseen consequence of this. It is founded upon 
the Ego , whose eminent characteristic is liberty. To 
preserve one’s own liberty, one’s Ego is duty; to re- 
spect the Ego, the liberty of others, is another not less 
sacred duty which becomes the foundation of right. 
Hence the noble stoicism of Fichte, and that passion 
for liberty, which were in such perfect harmony with 
the masculine strength of his character and the gener- 
ous part which he played in the political affairs of 
Germany. But the importance of the system of 
Fichte does not lie here. 1 find li is greatness and 
originality in the extraordinary metaphysics so justly 
and boldly called by himself subjective absolute ideal- 
ism. It has this singular feature, that in pushing the 
scepticism of Kant to its extremest consequences, it 
prepares the way for the dogmatism of Schelling and 
of Hegel. Not only does it prepare the way for, hut 
even begins and contains this dogmatism. Fichte 
openly aspires to absolute science. He explains all 
things — man, nature, and God. He leads German 
philosophy, if I may venture to say so, from the sub- 
jective to the objective by the subjective itself. From 
absolute scepticism lie flings it into an enormous dog- 
matism. Setting out from a teaching so timid that it 
scarcely ventures to affirm one actual being, it is the 
prelude of that ambitious philosophy w hich embraces 
in its enormous frameworks the history of man and 
that of nature, and pretends to an unmeasured, unre- 
served, and universal explanation of all things” (Sais- 
set, Modern Pantheism , Edinb. 1863, ii, 2 sq.). 

On the relations of Fichte’s life and works to theol- 
ogy and to the Christian Church, w r c make the follow’- 
extracts from Hagenbacb, German nationalism 


would certainly he doing Fichte injustice to .interpret 
his system to mean that he wished to make himself, 
J. G. Fichte, God. We might say with more proprie- 
ty that Fichte, like Spinoza, denied the existence of 
God only in order to conceive him more spiritually ; 


ion’ in the history, and the great importance of the 
Christian state, in the Grnndzi'/ge des gegcmrdrtigen 
Zeit alters, ho attempted, especially in his A niveisungen 
zum seligen I Men, odor Bel' gionsh lire, to prove the agree- 
ment of his philosophy of that time with the principles 


FICHTE 


545 


FICINUS 


of Christianity, which he regarded in a light entirely 
different from Kant. Kant and the Nationalists placed 
the essence of Christianity chiefly in morality and the 
fulfilment of the moral law, and, in accordance with 
this, esteemed and used with a special predilection 
those passages in Scripture in which the various moral 
precepts are drawn in distinct outlines, as, for instance, 
the Sermon on the Mount, and several parables of Je- 
sus in the first three gospels (while they had no taste 
for John, who appeared to them a mystic) ; Fichte, on 
the other hand, threw himself on the fourth gospel, 
and regarded it as the only true source of the genuine 
doctrine of Christ ; he, of course, did this in a one-sided 
manner, and with a denial of the other truths of Scrip- 
ture, which belong fully as much to the totality of 
Christian doctrine and history as the gospel of John. 

. . . The person of Jesus had with him a signification 
entirely different from that of the Nationalists, lie 
does not behold in him the teacher of morality, nor 
simply the moral example. No ; exactly that oneness 
with God, as Christ expresses it in the gospel of John, 
exactly that real unity with the Father which the Na- 
tionalists desired to remove as a metaphysical formula 
of no use to morality, was to him the heart and the 
star of the Gospel. On this account he held himself 
so closely to John and his doctrine of the Logos hav- 
ing become flesh, in which he beheld the fulness of all 
religious knowledge. AVe should, however, make a 
great mistake if from this we concluded that Fichte 
agreed with the old orthodox doctrine in reference to 
Christ. What this doctrine regarded as a historical 
fact, which had occurred once, that Fichte regarded as 
a fact eternally repeating itself, as occurring in every 
religious man. Christ was not the Saviour to him in 
the old sense ; he was only the representative of that 
which is continually occurring still. ‘The eternal 
Word becomes flesh at all times, in every one, without 
exception, who understands, in a living manner, his 
oneness with God, and who really yields his entire in- 
dividual life to the divine life in living . . . quite in 
the same manner as in Christ Jesus.’ ... In the house 
of the distinguished philosopher, each day, without ex- 
ception, was closed with proper and solemn evening 
devotions, in which the domestics were also accustom- 
ed to take a part. After several verses had been sung 
from a choral-book, accompanied with the clavichord, 
the father of the family would make some remarks on 
some passage of the New Testament, most frequently 
on his favorite gospel of John. In these discourses he 
was less concerned about moral applications and rules 
of life than about freeing the mincl from the distraction 
and vanity of the common affairs of life, and elevating 
the spirit to the eternal.” Dorner regards Fichte as 
closing what he calls the period of “reflection” in phi- 
losophy by his theory of absolute subjective idealism ; 
and holds the later form of Fichte’s teaching to be 
Spinozistic, as denying the idea of a sclf-conscious 
God distinct from the world {Person of Christ , Edinb. 
transl., div. ii, vol. iii, 93 sq.). 

Literature. — Besides the works already mentioned, 
see J. II. Fichte, J. G . Fichte's Lebcn (Sulzbach, 1830); 
J. II. Fichte, Karakteristik d. neue&ten Philosophic (Sulz- 
baeli, 1811); Erdmann, Entwickelu ng d. deutsehen Spe- 
culation seit Kant (vol. i); W. Smith, Memoir of J. G. 
Fichte (Loud. 1818, 2d ed. 12mo); Christian Examiner , 
May, 1811, p. 192 sq. ; Foreign Quart. Rev. Oct. 1815; 
Living Age , vi, 1G2 ; xxx, 193; Tennemann, Manual 
Ilist. Phil. (ed. Bolin), § ICO -11 5 ; Morell, Mod. Philos- 
ophy eh. v, § 2; Lewes, History of Philosophy (Lond. 
1807, 3d ed.), ii, 490 sq. ; Krug, AVg. Handworterbuch 
d. philos. Wissenschnften , ii, 81 sq. ; Saintes, History rf 
Rationalism , bk. ii, ch. xiii ; Sehwegler, Ilist. of Philos- 
ophy , transl. by Seelye, § 11 ; L:\sson, J. G. Fichte im \ 
Yerhdltniss zu Kirche vnd Staat (Berl. 1803); Kahnis, 1 
Gtrman Protestantism , l k. i, ch. iv ; M*Cosh, Intuitions J 
(see Index); Mills, in Christian Examiner , July, 1800. 
Fichte’s Wissenschaftshhre has recently been admira- | 
III.— M m 


blv translated by A. E. Kroeger, under the title The, 
Science of Knowledge (Philadelphia, 1808, 12mo). 

Ficinus, Marsilius {Marsiglio Ficino ) — the prin- 
cipal restorer of the Platonic philosophy, and the most 
enthusiastic of it£ modern advocates — was born at Flor- 
ence Oct. 18, 1133, and died at his villa of Careggi, in 
the neighborhood, Oct. 1, 1199. He was the son of 
the chief physician of Cosmo di Medici, and was de- 
signed for the same profession ; but his youthful intel- 
ligence attracted the great Florentine, and induced his 
selection as the prospective head of the projected Me- 
dicean Academy. During the sessions of the Council 
of Florence, the conversations of Gemistus Pletho had 
inspired Cosmo with profound admiration for the Pla- 
tonic doctrine, and with a desire to disseminate it in 
Tuscany. The excessive refinements and logomachies 
of the later schoolmen had discredited the system of 
Aristotle ; the disturbance and alarms preceding the 
capture of Constantinople had driven many educated 
Greeks into Italy, and introduced the works and the 
followers of Plato and the Neo-Platonists ; and the ac- 
rimonious controversy of Pletho and Gennadius at- 
tracted attention to the sublime reveries and eloquent 
expositions of the Platonic school. 

Marsilius Ficinus devoted himself with ardor to the ac- 
quisition and illustration of the Platonic doctrines, and 
was abundantly supplied by the Medici with MSS., and 
with the other requirements for the successful pros- 
ecution of his task. At the age of 23 he presented to 
his patron a synopsis of the tenets of the academy, but 
was recommended to suppress it, as his knowledge was 
obtained at second-hand, and he had not yet attained 
an adequate acquaintance with the Greek language. 
Ficinus continued his studies, and devoted his whole 
life to the translation and interpretation of the acade- 
mic texts, inclining strongly to the views of the later 
Platonists. lie rendered into Latin the whole works 
of Plato and of Plotinus, and parts of the writings of 
Proelus, Porphyry, Iamblichus, etc. The translation 
of Plotinus was undertaken at the suggestion of Pico 
di Miraudola, and was published in 1492. His whole 
heart seems to have been thrown into this labor of 
love. In part he transforms himself into Plotinus ; in 
a greater degree he constrains Plotinus to give utter- 
ance to his own preconceptions. To each chapter of 
the work is prefixed a copious Summary, which pre- 
sents rather Ficino’s scheme of transcendentalism than 
an accurate abbreviation of the text. It, however, 
affords something like an intelligible and coherent ex- 
position, in place of the dark, oracular, and loosely- 
connected pantheism of his author, which baffled even 
the penetration of Longinus. The intricacy, the opac- 
ity, and the mysticism of the doctrine expounded, and 
the rtiggedness of its original exposition, are not re- 
lieved by any literary graces on the part of the sum- 
marist and translator. His style is inconceivably 
harsh, angular, and obscure ; yet it is impossible to 
withhold admiration from the vigor, and skill, and 
grasp with which he compels the reluctant Latin to 
lend itself to the demands of the subject — to twist, and 
wind, and adapt itself to the sinuosities of the most 
plastic of all languages, applied to the most perplexed 
and attenuated of all speculations — and to interpret a 
style and a system totally foreign to the air of Latium. 
Lucretius apologized in the Golden Ago for the stub- 
bornness of his native tongue in the treatment of the 
simple and perspicuous doctrines of Epicurus; and a 
much more w’onderful power is exhibited by Ficinus 
in constraining the dead and stiffened tongue of Nome 
to conform itself to all the convolutions of Greek 
thought and fantasy in their most bewildering license. 
Nor is it just to leave unnoticed the frequency with 
which Ficinus catches and reflects the splendors of his 
original, and reproduces the magnificences of their ex- 
pression. 

Attempts had often been made, and were renewed 
in the 15th century, to conciliate the teachings of Pl*r 


FICINUS 


546 


FIDELIUM MISSA 


to and Aristotle, and the evident aim of Fieinus was 
to impose upon Plato and the Neo-Platonists a signifi- 
cance which might identify, or at least harmonize, 
their doctrines with the Christian creed. It was a pre- 
posterous revival of a design fruitlessly attempted at 
Alexandria in the age of Origen and his successors. 
Pantheism is wholly antipathetic to Christianity, 
whether presented as Neo-Platonism, as Spinozism, or 
as German transcendentalism. Put it was a natural 
effort in that era of confusion and hopeful anticipation 
which witnessed the Renaissance. Moreover, the doc- 
trines of Plotinus himself are manifestly moulded and 
modified by the contemporaneous influences of Chris- 
tianity; and it is a curious taste to detect the Chris- 
tian impress whicli marks so much of his abstruse met- 
aphysics, especially in the closing books of the last 
yEncids. It is scarcely possible to read the conclud- 
ing ccipitulum , or summary, without feeling that the 
hallucination of Fieinus w r as an honest as well as an 
earnest delusion ; and that, if he misrepresented both 
Plato and the Alexandrian school by Christianizing 
their doctrine, he did not suffer himself to be seduced 
from a recognition of the personality of the Supreme 
Being, or into any position consciously at variance 
with the Christian creed. 

Fieinus was liberally maintained throughout his life 
by his generous patrons of the house of the Medici, re- 
taining their favor for three generations — ptra He rpt- 
tlitoigiv dvaaoev. He w r as equally countenanced by 
Cosmo, Pietro, and Lorenzo. lie took holy orders in 
the forty-third year of his age, having, according to 
some accounts, had his thoughts earnestly directed to 
religion by the preaching of the celebrated Savonarola. 

He was placed in charge of two churches in Flor- 
ence b} r Lorenzo di Medici, and promoted to a canonry 
in the cathedral by the future pope Leo X. Lorenzo 
made him a present of the villa of Careggi, w here he 
died, seven years after the death of the donor, and 
five years after the expulsion of his patrons from Flor- 
ence. His constitution was ahvavs very feeble, his 
health uncertain, and his temperament melancholy. 
His frail body — for he scarcely attained half the or- 
dinary stature of man — required constant care and 
nursing, and it is surprising that he was not worn out 
by continual study long before reaching his climac- 
teric. His character was singularly pure and amia- 
ble; his attachments w’ere strong and enduring; his 
tastes simple, and his desires moderate. He refused 
to profit by his powerful connections to enrich either 
himself or his family. He partook largely of the pop- 
ular superstitions of the time, which were accordant 
with the later Platonism which he professed ; and is 
said to have reappeared after death to his friend Mi- 
chele Mercati, according to promise, to assure him of 
the immortality of the soul. 

The Medicean Academy w r as extinguished by the 
invasion of Charles VIII ; but Fieinus had dissemina- 
ted his influence and renow n through the chair of phi- 
losophy in the University of Florence, to which he had 
been appointed by the Cardinal di Medici, afterwards 
Leo X. Here he acquired many distinguished pupils 
and friends, among them Giovanni Pico di Mirandola, 
Cavaleanto, Politian, etc. Enthusiasts came from the 
depths of Germany to profit by his instructions. Rench- 
lin regarded him w'itli reverence, and among other il- 
lustrious admirers he numbered Matthias Corvinus, the 
accomplished king of Hungary, and pope Sixtus IV. 

The numerous productions of Fieinus are enumerated 
by Moreri, and a more correct list is given in the Bio- 
graphie Unherselle. A life of him was written by Do- 
menico Mellini, but it was never published, and it dis- 
appeared. Another life, composed by Giovanni Corsi 
in 1506, w'as published by Bnndini (Pisa, 1771). The 
hest account of the philosophy of Fieinus is given by 
Biihle, Geschichte der Philosophie ; but tlie'following au- 
thorities may be consulted : Sehelhorn, Amcenitatis Lit . 
tom. i; Niccron, Mem. des Homines Illustres ; Negri, 


1st. Scritt. Florentini; J. A. Fabricius, Biblioth. Med. et 
Inf. Latin, lib. vi, p. 496-7; Morhofius, Polyhistor. II, i, 
vii, § 15; Tiraboschi, Storm della Lett. Jtal. tom. vi, 
lib. ii, c. ii, § xix-xxi ; Brueker, Hid. Grit. Phil. per. 
iii, pt. i, lib. i, c. ii, § iii ; Roscoe, Life of Lorenzo di 
Medici; Hallam, Ilist. Lit. i, eh. iii, § 85-7, 115. (G. 

Fiddes, Richard, a clergyman of the Church of 
England, and author of several works marked by in- 
ti ustn r and research rather than talent, was horn at 
Hunmanby, Yorkshire, in 1671. He took his bache- 
lor’s degree at University College, Oxford, in 1693. 
lie was made rector of Hal sham in 1694, but, losing his 
health, he devoted himself to authorship. Among his 
works are, A Body of Divinity (Lond. 1718-20, 2 vols. 
fol.) : — Fifty-two 'practical Discourses (London, 1714, 3 
vols. Svo): — Life of Cardinal 1 Volsey (London, 1724, 
fol.) : — General Treatise on Morality (Lond. 1724, 8vo). 
He died at Putney in 1725. Knight, in his Life of 
Erasmus (Introd. p. 15 sq.), accuses Fiddes of being 
at heart a Romanist. Knight accounts for I'iddes’s 
speaking irreverently of Erasmus “probably because 
he had by his writings favored the Reformation. Dr. 
Fiddes censures the Reformation ; and, to give it the 
more home strokes, goes to the very root of it, and 
does all he can to evince the unjustifiable grounds it 
proceeded upon, ridicules the instruments of it, and 
would insinuate that there was a change made for the 
worse, and therefore palliates some of the most absurd 
doctrines of the Church of Rome, which were happily 
throw n off at the Reformation.” He afterwards goes 
further, asserting, among other particulars, that Fiddes 
had “most partially, and indeed scandalously, reflect- 
ed upon the opening of the Reformation, laving on the 
grossest colors to hide the deformities of Popery.” 
lie then proceeds “to give the true rise and occasion 
of writing his life of Wolsev,” which he declares to 
have been at the solicitation of the late bishop Atter- 
bury, on occasion of the dispute in w hich he was then 
engaged wnth archbishop Wake. — Xew General Biog. 
Did. v, 323. 

Fidejussores, sureties, a title borrowed from the 
Roman law, and employed by Augustine to represent 
the office of sponsor. Baptism at an early period was 
considered in the light of a contract; and as many of 
the leaders in the early Church had, before their con- 
version, been engaged in the interpretation or admin- 
istration of law', it was natural for them to use a term 
W'hich they had been accustomed to employ in civil 
transactions. See Sponsors. 

Fideles. See Faithful. 

Fidelis, St., properly Marcus Roy, was born at 
Sigmaringen in 1577. He studied law r , and in 1604-10 
visited the principal cities of Europe, but on his return 
he quitted liis profession, and entered the order of the 
Capuchins under the name of Fidelis. After studying 
theology in the convents of Constance and Frauenfehl, 
he w as ordained, and in 1G21 obtained charge of Feld- 
kirch, in Yorarlberg, Tyrol. Here he labored with 
great success, tiying to re-establish the sway of the 
Roman Church among the Grisons. When Austria 
afterwards attempted to put dowm Protestantism by 
force of arms, Fidelis was sent by the pope as a mem- 
ber of the Propaganda, and the ruffian general Baldi- 
ron, with his dragoons, travelled from town to tow r n ex- 
terminating those who refused to obey. But the peas- 
ants rose, defeated Baldiron, and only spared his life 
upon his taking the oath not to hear arms against them 
any more. The promise was soon broken; but tho 
peasants rose again, and during the insurrection, Fide* 
lis, having fallen into the hands of a party of peasants, 
was put to death; April 24, 1G22. He was canonized by 
Clement XIII. — Herzog, Peal-Encyllop. iv, 403. 

Fidelium Missa, J fass of the Faithful. Under 
the A ream Disciplina (q. v.) the catechumens w'ere 
permitted to partake of the Lord’s Supper with the 


FIEF 


FIEF • 547 

faithful (q. v.): they were allowed to join with them t mestic insurrection and the repulsion of foreign at' 
in worship only until the offertory. Then the deacon tack. 

gave a signal to the catechumens to leave the church, I Though such was the feudal system in its definite con- 
saying Ite, missa est , “ Depart, the assembly is dis- stitution, it did not, of course, begin in this closely ar- 
missed.” Hence arose the twofold missa , namely, tieulated and rigorous form. It assumes much of this 
the missa catechumenorum and the missa jiddhmi ; the aspect even in the Lombard occupancy of Northern It- 
former meaning that portion of the public worship aly in the 6th century ; and its general outline may be 
which was performed before the dismissal of the cate- imperfectly distinguished in the Ostrogothic kingdom 
chumens, and the latter that portion which was con- of Thcodoric (Sartorius, Feuples d' Italie sous les Goths , 
tinued until the communicants went away. — Bingham, v, 61). lint it had a simpler commencement, and both 


Orig. Eccl. bk. xiii, ch. i, § 3; bk. xv, ch. i, § 1 ; Far- 
rar, Dictionai'y , s. v. Sec Mass. 

Fief, Feod, Feud ; Feudalism ; Feudal 
System. These terms relate to the peculiar organ- 
ization of society in Western Europe during the Mid- 
dle Ages, and specifically to institutions affecting real 
estate more profoundly than it has eyer been affected 
by an}' others — institutions whose influence is still 
manifest in the language, doctrines, and procedure of 
law throughout Christendom. 

A fief, feod, feud, or fee is an estate — and, primarily, 
an estate in land — held of a superior on condition of 
the faithful discharge of prescribed services, chiefly 
military. Feudalism denotes the essential character 
of the organization founded on the basis of such es- 
tates, and is frequently employed in a concrete sense 
to signify the organization itself and its accompani- 
ments. The Feudal System is the name given to this 
organization, or to that body of institutions, political 
and social, established upon the military tenure of 
land which characterized the rising kingdoms of mod- 
ern Europe. In the period of its incipient growth, in 
its maturity, and in its decline, the feudal system, like 
all other political arrangements, assumed diverse as- 
pects, and assimilated to itself other coincident tenden- 
cies, but its identity may be discerned through all its 
manifold transformations. Its existence has been dis- 
tributed by Sir Thomas Craig into four periods: I. 
From the barbarian invasions of the Homan empire to 
the reunion of the Frank monarchy under Dagobert I 
in 6*28; 11. To the restoration of the Western empire 
in the person of Charlemagne in 800; III. To the ac- 
cession of the Capetian dynasty in France, and of the 
Franconian line in Germany; 1 \ r . From the commence- 
ment of the 11th century to the gradual extinction of 
the polity at different times and in different degrees, 
in different countries. This division has not been uni- 
versally accepted, and is open to many objections, but 
it may be of service. The culminating era of feudal- 
ism may lie assigned to the times of the first crusade, 
aud to the early ages of chivalry which constituted its 
bloom and expedited its decay. 

An examination of the principles and phenomena of 
the feudal system will furnish all necessary informa- 
tion in regard to the other terms included in this title, 
so far as these illustrate the religious, moral, and social 
aspect of Europe during the period over which feudal- 
ism extends. 

Under the feudal system the whole order of society 
rested directly on the tenure of land by military serv- 
ice. Territorial possessions were granted by the su- 
zerain, or supreme lord, in consideration of prompt and 
gratuitous service in war, and participation in his de- 
liberative and judicial courts. Lands were held of the 
principal lords, or tenants in capite , by the lesser bar- 
ons, by similar obligations. By the like service, lands 
were held by vavassors, knights, and squires. Even 
the lowest tenure of all, the peculiarly English tenure 
of socage, frank and villein, was of an analogous char- 
acter, and secured the cultivation of the lord’s domain, 
and the maintenance of himself, his family, and his re- 
tainers, in war and in peace. The system was strictly 
military in its nature — a uniform organization from 
the crown to the lowest landholder, establishing a regu- 
larly appointed army in scattered strongholds through 
every part of the country, to insure the support of the 
whole body politic in arms for the repression of do- 


expanded and modified itself with the changing neces- 
sities of successive generations. It is in its rudiment- 
ary types, however, that its essential principles, and 
its singular adaptation to urgent contemporary needs, 
can be best detected. Inattention to its humbler be- 
ginnings has occasioned numerous controversies with 
regard to its origin, and rendered the information ac- 
cessible on the subject often perplexed, contradictory, 
and uninstrnctive. 

The vital germ of feudalism is contained in the act 
of homage — homagium , homininm , hominugium , hominat - 
icum , kominiscum , etc. — the solemn formula by which 
a dependent professed himself the man and faithful ad- 
herent of a superior, originally of his own selection, 
and always theoretically so (“ Integram et perfect am 
in se continet fidelitatem,” Libri Feudorum ii, vii). The 
liegeman knelt down, placed his hands between the 
hamls of liis intended chief, and took upon himself the 
obligation of absolute ./u/e&Vj/ in certain prescribed re- 
lations, so long as his superior performed the corre- 
sponding duties of protection and support. The con- 
tract was sealed witli a kiss, and confirmed with the 
sanctions of religion (Galbert, Vie de Charles-le-Bon , de 
Flandres, ch. xii ; Guizot, Mini. pour servir , etc., viii, 
339-40). The profession of fidelity was ultimately ex- 
pressed by the following declaration in the presence 
of the baronial court: “ Devenio homo vester de tene- 
mento quod de vobis t?neo , et fidem vobis portabo contra 
omnes gentes , salra fide debitu Domino Regi et haired thus 
suit ” (Bracton, ii, xxxv, 8; Libb. Feud . ii, x). With 
this declaration should certainly he compared the state- 
ment of Procopius in regard to the ancient usage un- 
der the Roman empire ( De Bello Vandal, ii, xviii, vol. 
i, p. 491). 

Homage, then, was the pledge of true and loyal 
service to a superior — liege faith and liege obedience 
— given in consideration of defence and maintenance 
promised by the baron (man, par excellence “ baronem 
ingenuum a free man. Lex Salic, xxxi ; sec Du Cange, 
Gloss. Med. et Inf Latin, tit. Baro, who omits in his 
classical authorities for the word, Petron. Satgr. liii). 
One man voluntarily became the man of another, and 
that other became the chief, leader, adviser, patron, 
and protector of his homager. The vassal originally 
had, and long retained, the right of formally renouncing 
the reciprocal obligations contracted by the process of 
diffidatio, or defiance. By carrying this relation of 
perfect trust and faithful dependence through all gra- 
dations of society till it reached the head of the tribe 
or nation, the whole feudal hierarchy was constructed, 
and all the members of the associated body were linked 
together in strict military union and subordination. 

The principal object of this close correlation of the 
constituents of society was to maintain the population 
in a constant state of preparation for war, “with its 
captains over tens, and its captains over fifties, and its 
captains over hundreds, and its captains over thou- 
sands.” For this purpose the lord granted to his liege- 
man a definite quantity of land, to be held on condition 
of rendering a definite amount of service in the wars 
and other affairs of his chief. In this way, every man 
within the feudal circle was professed the faithful fol- 
lower of some lord— except the chief lord of all — the su- 
zerain ; and every piece of'land was held in fee of some 
feudal superior. Hence arose the doctrine that the 
eminent domain of the whole realm belonged to the 
king, and that all honor, authority, and ownership of 


FIEF 


548 


FIEF 


the soil descended from him. Hence, too, the maxim 
of the English law, nulla terra sine domino — no estate 
iu land without its lord. Hut these deductions were 
not drawn by the companions of Ataulph the Visigoth, 
of Clovis the Frank, or of Alboin the Lombard. 

The principle of homage and the principle of the 
military tenure of land are not necessarily, though 
they are usually connected. They have existed sep- 
arately, but they coalesced in the Middle Ages, and 
engendered by their conjunction what is so familiar 
under the name of the Feudal System. 

"When society was disintegrated by internal discord, 
misery, and both civil and foreign war; when it was 
constantly assailed by new hordes of barbarians ; when 
life and property, the fruits of industry and tranquil- 
lity, were continually imperilled by the hazards of the 
times, the weakness of the government., and the exac- 
tions of imperial otficials; when there was no longer 
an y faith between man and man, any honesty of deal- 
ing, any security or protection against violent or in- 
sidious attacks (all which phenomena characterized the 
declining age of the Western empire and the ensuing 
centuries, Lactant. Die. Inst, vii, xv; Salvian. De Gu- 
hernat. Dei , iv, v-vi, et passim'), t lie social ties which 
bind men together snapped like flax in the fire, and 
the social organism rotted into incoherent atoms, which 
were totally deprived of old mutual attractions, and 
of capacity for continued combination in the ancient 
forms. In order that men might live together — and 
together they must live in order to live at all in such 
times — it was necessary to provide mutual support 
against aggression, and to establish entire fidelity at 
least between individual men, so that conjoint resist- 
ance might be obtained by reliance on reciprocal sup- 
port. These wants were satisfied by the feudal rela- 
tion, which, commencing with the elements of society, 
reunited them, separately man to man, under pledges 
of mutual trust, fidelity, and dependence. It provided 
also for the defence of the soil and the fruits of t he 
soil, nearly the sole productions of such disordered 
times, by resisting any attack upon the community or 
its members (Salvian. Ibid, v, viii). Feudalism thus 
supplied the means of reconstructing society from its 
very foundations, and of restoring coherence and some 
degree of security to distracted and dissociated popula- 
tions. Of course, the scheme was cradled in weakness 
and imperfection, and grew, through many changes of 
feature and fluctuations of fortune, into perfect sym- 
metry of form. Of course, long and anxious genera- 
tions were required to permit the confluence and full 
development of arrangements at first local and ob- 
scure. And of course, too, the scheme expanded and 
became more systematic among an intrusive band of 
foreign warriors, settled in t lie midst of a larger and 
more intelligent population, and menaced from with- 
out by new intruders, and it developed itself still fur- 
ther and more predominantly as new necessities, new 
temptations, and new opportunities arose. 

This organization of society, with the corresponding 
tenure of land, is so essential to the maintenance of 
any degree of social order or public safety in certain 
conditions of society, that it has presented itself, in 
some form or other, in analogous circumstances, in 
widely separated ages and countries. So frequent 
and so striking is this recurrence, that it suggested to 
Sir Walter Scott in 1789 an essay, in whic h lie under- 
took to prove that the feudal system ‘“proceeds upon 
principles common to all nations when placed in a cer- 
tain situation.” Sir Walter was delighted in his old 
age by finding this view illustrated and enforced in 
colonel Tod's History of Rajahstan (Lockhart, Life of 
Beott, ch. vi). It contains a considerable amount of 
truth, but is far from expressing the whole truth. 

There are distinct indications of something very like 
feudalism in ancient Egypt. Approximations to it are 
found in the early history of China, India, and Persia. 
Analogies of the same sort may be discovered among 


the Jews in their early occupation of the Holy Land. 
They may be suspected in the Spartan constitution ; 
they are very evident in the institutions of Maccdon. 
The principles of feudalism are involved in Plato’s 
ideal state ( [De Leyg.'). The relation of patron and 
client at Pome was essentially feudal. A semi-feudal 
organization was adopted by the Saracens in Spain, 
and exhibited by the Timaviots, or mounted militia, 
among the Ottoman Turks. It may still be detected 
among the warlike tribes of Afghanistan, and among 
the Mongolian tributaries of the Chinese empire. 
Humboldt recognised it among the Guanchcs of Ten- 
erifte, and among some of the South-Sea Islanders 
(Personal Narrative , ch. ii). Other instances might 
be noted. All show how some arrangement of the 
kind is inspired or necessitated by appropriate social 
requirements ; they explain the facility with which 
feudalism was adopted, and its vitality when adopted ; 
but they do not interpret its special forms in mediaeval 
Europe, nor supply any testimony to the historical or- 
igin of the feudal system. 

In regard to this origin a wide divergence of opin- 
ion has existed. Montesquieu, Guizot, and the gener- 
ality of recent writers refer feudalism to the voluntary 
followers and companions — comites — of the Germanic 
chieftains, who invaded the Homan empire in the 5th 
and succeeding centuries ; but it was never found 
among those Northern races in their original abodes. 
Some juridical antiquaries of the lGth century traced 
it to til q juitronatus and clientclce of ancient Pome ; but 
these resembled much more nearly the clans of the 
Scotcli Highlands and the septs of Ireland. r Ihe bet- 
ter opinion appears to be that the principles and gen- 
eral framework of the system were of later Pomau or- 
igin, whatever modifications and developments they 
may have received in the Teutonic kincih ms. This 
is the view espoused by Franciscus Balduinus (ad 
Leges Romnli. apitd Ileineccii Jiuispr. Rom. et Att. i, 
50), the profound but inconstant jurist of the 16th cen- 
tury. It was entertained by his rival, the greater ju- 
rist Cujacius, and favored by Camden in bis Britannia , 
and by Du Cange in his wondrous Latin Glossary. It 
lias been reaffirmed, with suitable rectifications, by Sir 
Francis Palgrave, Lelmerou. Ozanam, and a fev r re- 
cent students of mediaeval archaeology. T his view 
does not conflict with the distinct acknowledgment of 
Teutonic influences in animating, sustaining, and 
moulding the feudal elements. 

It is impossible, to introduce here either the argu- 
ments or the evidences by which this conclusion may 
be confirmed ; but it is scarcely necessary to do more 
than examine the titles Benefciarhts , Km] hytensis, 
Milit< s Limit anei, Lad, Cvloni , Adscripdtri , lunnilim , 
in the Corpus Juris Civilis , and the same titles, with 
the addition of Cvmmcndado , Feudum , and its deriva- 
tives, in Du Cange, in order to be assured of its sub- 
stantial correctness. It may be expedient to corrob- 
orate this position by citing the earliest distinct notice 
in a Latin author of such an organization: “Sola, 
qua; de hostibus capta sunt, limitaneis dueibus et militi- 
bus donavit, ita ut eormn ita essent, si heredes illorum 
militarent, nec nnqnam ad privatos pertinerent ; di- 
cens , attentius cos militarent , si (dam si/a rura defen dc- 
runt ” (Lamprid. A lex. Btverus, c. 1 viii ; Cod. I head. 
vii, xv, ii; Novell. Theod. xxxiv; Cod. Just, xi, lx 
[lix], o; Hocking, Notit. Dign. i, 292; ii, 1< (18*). To 
this may be added a significant exposition of the man- 
ner in which like arrangements sprung up in the inte- 
rior of the Homan empire. . . . Tradunt se ad tuen- 
dum protogendumque inajoribus, dedititios sc divitum 
fueiunt, et quasi in jus corum ditionemque transcend- 
unt: nec tamcn grave hoc out indignum arbit rarer, 
immo potins gratularer lianc potentum magnitudinem qui- 
bus se pauperes dedunt ; si patrocinia ista non vcndeient, 
si quod sc humilcs d'eunt defensare, humanitati tr\bue- 
rent, non cupiditati ” (Salvianus, De Gubernat. Dei , v. 
viii). The class technically designated dedititii ulti- 


FIEF 


549 


FIEF 


mately merged into serfdom, it is true, but only bv 
Justinian’s edict of 530 ( Cod . vii, v) ; and the term is 
plainly metaphorical in Salvian. 

Wherever the Teutonic hordes passed the frontiers 
of the Roman empire, they found the presence or the 
memory of the M Hites Limit anei , whose constitution, 
traceable beyond the reign of Augustus, accorded with 
all the essential characteristics of undeveloped feudal- 
ism. These military borderers were, indeed, of kin- 
dred blood and race, and when they were supplanted 
or overlaid by new tribes, the institutions were retain- 
ed, which had been designed as a protection against 
incursion. This was only the observance of the ha- 
bitual policy of the barbarians in regard to the Roman 
civilization. 

As has been already observed, the feudal scheme, 
like all other imperial forms, was contracted or extend- 
ed, weakened or strengthened, according to the changes 
of fortune and social condition which checkered the 
agitated and anxious periods attending the overthrow 
of the Western empire. At times it was as much dis- 
guised and obscured, as largely recompounded with 
Teutonic associations, as was the ever-subsisting Ro- 
man jurisprudence during the same ages. But it sur- 
vived in spirit and in outline, ready always to multi- 
ply its ramifications, and to attain such proportions as 
contemporaneous necessities might induce. It is thus 
that its existence and operation so frequently elude 
regard during the earlier centuries of its growdh, and 
that its origin is so often referred to the late era when 
it became predominant and universal as the sole cor- 
rective of returning anarchy under the feeble success- 
ors of Charlemagne. 

It is impracticable, within the space at command, to 
recount and explain the successive transformations of 
feudalism which culminated in the perfect type of the 
feudal system in the 9th, 10th, and 11th centuries. 
Its development accompanied and was due to the pro- 
gressive dissolution and increasing inaptitude of the 
complex administrative organization of imperial Rome. 
A distinction of ages and a contradistinction of insti- 
tutions have been suspected in the succession of the 
terms munera, benejieiu , and feuda ; and feudalism has 
been restricted to the period when the last of these 
designations prevailed. Munera is supposed to repre- 
sent estates at will; benejieia , estates for life; and 
feuda, estates of inheritance. It has been assumed 
that feudalism could not properly be said to exist un- 
til benefices became hereditary. But the essence of 
feudalism does not reside in'tlie duration of the estate, 
but in the nature, anil especially in the obligation of 
the tenure. Moreover, the contrasted terms may be 
in some measure concurrent with, but they do not de- 
note, such diversities of duration. Munera is a ge- 
neric term applied to all honors, dignities, offices, and 
donations. There was no such clear line of demarca- 
tion, in meaning or in time, as Montesquieu and oth- 
ers imagine, between estates for life and estates herita- 
ble. Such precision was entirely foreign to the habits 
and the dispositions of those troubled but practical 
ages. Life estates were conceded in Germany as late 
as 1378. The commencement of hereditary feuds is 
often referred to Hugh Capet, in 947. Montesquieu 
assigns it to the reign of Charles the Bald, in 877. 
But such tenures are found under Louis le Debonnaire 
in 814 ; and in the form of benejieia they were custom- 
ary under the Roman empire. Estates in perpetuity 
are mentioned under the name of benejieia as early as 
759 (Ratpert, Casus S. Galli, § 2, apud Pertz, Mon. 
Germ. Hist . ii, G3 ; comp. S. Anskarii Vita S. Willeha- 
di , § 8 ; Ibid. p. 382). But, in order to ascribe a pure- 
ly Germanic origin to feuds, benejieia and feuda have 
been represented as diverse institutions. They are 
used as convertible terms throughout the Booh of 
Feuds. “ Feudum idem cum benefeia,” says Du Cange 
(s. v., p. 258, col. 1). King Alfonso the Wise, of Cas- 
tile, declares in Las Siete Partidas: “ Feudo cs bene- 


fchio que di el senor a algunhome , porque $e torna sn 
vas alio, et le fee homenage de serle leal. E tomo este 
nombre defe que debe siempre git ardor el vasallo al senor.” 
The term feudum is a barbarous, and probably hybrid 
compound, whose first employment 11 alia m assigns to 
a constitution of Robert 1 of France in 1008, though it 
is found in a constitution, of somewhat doubtful au- 
thenticity, of Charles the Fat, in 884. Were there no 
fiefs antecedent to the introduction of this name? If 
there were, then benefeia are fiefs. If there were not, 
then fiefs are the same things as benefeia. The con- 
fusion has proceeded from the fantastic derivation of 
Feod, from the supposed Teutonic word Fe, represent- 
ed by the Anglo-Saxon Fea , Feoh, fee, and the Scan- 
dinavian od, odh, property. Unfortunately, feudal- 
ism was a late and very partial innovation among 
both Anglo-Saxons and Scandinavians, while the term 
Feudum springs up along the Rhine; and the Anglo- 
Saxon Feoh is congenerous to the Latin pecus — pecor- 
is — if not borrowed from it. The fe in Fe-od, the 
Spanish and Provencal fe, the modern French foi, the 
Scotcli feu, are apparently nothing but contractions of 
the Latin fide or Italian fde. “Feudum, credo , a 
fide, quia vox ex Italia in Germanium venit. Et ante 
sceculum xii feuda in Germania et apud omnes Francos 
beneficia appellabantur ” (Leibnitz, Collect. Etymolog. 
Opp. ed. Putens, tom. vi, pt. ii, p. 58, 59). “ Nulla au- 
tem investitura debit ei fieri, qui fdelitatem facere recu - 
sat, quam a fidelitate feudum dicatur vel a fide” ( Libb . 
Feud, ii, iii, 3; compare vii). This derivation of the 
term Feod is singularly corroborated by the use of the 
word “ truage” in Sir Thomas Malory’s Morte d’Ar- 
tur: “And thus Sir Marhans every day sent unto 
king Marke for to pay the truage which was behind of 
seven years, or else to find a knight to fight with him 
for the truage ” (pt. ii, ch. iv, Romance of Fir Tristrem ). 

It is indubitable that feudal tenures long existed in 
the midst of Roman fundi and possessiones, and of Ger- 
manic allodial estates ; it is also unquestionable that 
these were gradually absorbed or transmuted into feu- 
dal tenements, for the conversion of allodial into feu- 
dal holdings is illustrated by ample documentary evi- 
dence; and it is also certain that this feudalization 
of the land was not completed till the times when the 
word fuda comes into use. But this will not justify 
the juridical distinctions which have been proposed, 
nor sanction the alleged derivation of Feod, nor sus- 
tain the Germanic origination of the tenure. The des- 
ignation of Feod may well have been devised as a 
counterpart to allodh; but the generally received ety- 
mology of allodh is very unreliable, and strong argu- 
ments may be adduced for referring it to the same 
source as the common English word lot. This ques- 
tion, however, cannot be examined here. (Compare 
lvemble, The Saxons in England, bk. i, ch. iv, vol. i, p. 
90, 91, with Procopius, De Bell. Vandal, i, v, in regard 
to the K\i}ooi Bai'CiAwr.) 

In the 10th and 11th centuries the feudal system 
acquired its widest extension, assumed its full, sym- 
metrical form, and engrossed nearly all the functions 
of government, judicature, police, war, and industrial 
organization. It constrained and overshadowed the 
attenuated framework of the Roman administrative 
constitution (which, however, coexisted with it), and 
adapted itself to it by making the king the feudal su- 
zerain of the nation — the emperor, the supreme tem- 
poral head of Christendom. Everything accepted a 
feudal complexion and a feudal structure — “nothing 
but did suffer a sea-change.” The process of govern- 
ment, the public revenue, the offices of state, the modes 
of jurisdiction, the command in war, the ecclesiastical 
constitution, the municipal arrangements, the guilds 
and corporations of arts and trades, the occupations of 
rural, mining, and other industry, were all feudalized. 
Everything rested on homage, fealty, and the military 
tenure of land, or was assimilated to the forms spring- 
ing from that basis. As in the Russian empire, ali 


FIEF 


550 


FIEF 


office or authority is invested with a military charac- | 
ter and designation, so everything under the feudal 
system adopted a feudal type. To this cause we must 
attribute the ecclesiastical baronies which arose during 
the period, and also the priestly warriors, the fighting 
abbots, and the knightly bishops, who inspire such 
surprise and disgust during the Middle Ages. The 
Homan Church, with the pope at its head, was the spir- 
itual empire, rivalling and co-ordinate with the secu- 
lar empire of Germany, and contending for a loftier 
supremacy. The ecclesiastical organization became 
baronial and feudal throughout all its provinces and 
dioceses, as the counterpart and counterpoise of the 
feudal kingdoms, and duchies, and counties, under the 
acknowledged hut disregarded suzerainty of the holy 
Homan empire. No other scheme, no idea inconsis- 
tent with the prevailing scheme, could be entertained 
among populations saturated with feudalism, and en- 
vironed with its universal atmosphere. How thor- 
oughly the Clmrcli had accepted the general feudali- 
zation is shown by an allocution of pope Innocent II 
to the Lateran Council, April 20, 1189: ‘"The pontifi- 
cal throne is the source of all ecclesiastical authority 
and dignity ; so that every such office or dignity is to 
be received at the hands of the Homan pontiff as a 
feoff of the Holy See, without which enfeoffment no such 
office can he lawfully exercised or enjoyed ” (quoted by j 
Greenwood, Cathedra Petri , bk. xii, eh. i). 

By this process, infinitely diversified, though ever 
essentially the same, society was slowly reconstructed 
and re-edified through long generations of anarchy, 
wretchedness, and foreign peril from new swarms of 
ruthless assailants. The elements and forces of a new 
civilization were thus collected and harmonized, and 
were recombined into a uniform and coherent system 
on the simple basis of fidelity between man and man. 
Ancient paganism had died out, and universal scepti- 
cism had supervened before the new religious faith 
which was to regenerate the world had been accepted 
hv minds still largely tainted with heathenism. All ( 
human trust had been betrayed and dissipated ; all so- 
cial ligaments had been conoded or ruptured ; all de- i 
pendencc upon government, law, ami public force had 
been deceived and outraged ; and yet — consentaneous- 
ly with the introduction of a new religious creed, and 
of fresh races to maintain that creed (Salvian. De Gu- 
hernat. Dei; Augustine, Civitas Dei ) — the seeds of a 
renovated social union were sprouting in the dust and 
ashes of the dissolving empire, and grew up in the 
midst of violence and disorder : 

u Per d annul, per ra?les, ah ipso 
Ducit opes animumque ferro.” 

This new growth, from its earliest development, pro- 
tected life and property, rendered industry possible 
once more, sustained or revived languishing hope, de- 
fended the shattered relics of the old civilization from 
the ruin of interminable swarms of ever-increasing 
barbarians, disciplined communities in habits of obe- 
dience and order, renewed the culture of the soil, re- 
organized the nations, and inaugurated a new series 
of the ages by introducing loyal faith between lord 
and vassal, and the honorable protection of the weak 
bv the powerful. The political renovation thus ran 
parallel with the spiritual transmutation, deriving life 
and encouragement from it even when resisting its in- 
fluence, and confirming its dominion even while con- 
taminating its morality by the infeetion of worldly 
interests and passions. Though the feudal order nev- 
er realized in practice the ideal which its function sug- 
gests — what human institution has ever done this? — 
though sore blemishes at all times stained its actual 
manifestations, yet the strong but rare eulogies be- 
stowed upon it arc fully justified by the inestimable 
services which it rendered to the nations during the 
millennial agony of humanity. High, ‘indeed, must 
be the merits which provoke a concert of praise from 
such antipodes as Montesquieu and De Maistre, and 


make the former proclaim his conviction that “the 
feudal system was the best-constituted government 
that ever existed upon earth;” and the latter declare 
that “feudalism was the most perfect institution that 
the universe has seen.” The criminations which have 
been so bitterly, and not altogether unjustly, directed 
against the feudal spirit, are applicable to its decline, 
when it had rendered its incomparable service to man- 
kind, and had become an embarrassment and a tyran- 
ny amid the enlarging industry, the augmented intel- 
ligence, and the ampler aspirations which its long du- 
ration had cherished and trained. 

Montesquieu boasted of closing his discussion of 
feudalism where others commenced, yet he mistook or 
overlooked its true antecedents and characteristics. 
From this notice nearly everything has been excluded 
which is repeated in familiar or accessible authors; 
nor has the associated topic of serfs and serfdom been 
noticed, as it presents an occasion for extended and 
independent consideration. 

From Blackstone, Hobertson, Kallam, etc., may be 
learned the habitual organization of nations during 
the maturity of the feudal system. From authors of 
a like character may be pleasantly ascertained the ro- 
mantic and other aspects of those memorable develop- 
. ments of feudalism, the Crusades and Chivalry— “a 


gilded halo hovering round decay.” From similar 
sources may be drawn all needful information in re- 
gard to the various species of feuds or fees, and to what 
are called feudal incidents. These incidents attached 
to every fief, and consisted of, 1. Heliefs ; 2. Fines on 
alienation; 3. Escheats; 4. Aids; 5. Wardship; C. Mar- 
riage (Hallam, llist . Middle Ages, eh. ii, pt. i; Black- 
stone, Comm. bk. ii, ch. v ; Hubert (du Var ),IIist. de la 
Class Oitvriere , liv. iv, eh. vi ; liv. v, ch. i-iv). These 
j serritla , or burdens, varied somewhat at different times 
and in different countries ; they were incidental rather 
than essential to feudalism, and most of them accom- 
panied the early Homan client ela. Their exj osition, 
therefore, is not indispensable in a summary apprecia- 
1 tion of the general characteristics aud operation of the 
feudal system. 

Authorities. — To give a list of authorities for such 
topics as Fief, Feudalism, Feudal System, would require 
the enumeration of volumes sufficient for an extensive 
' library. It may suffice to note here some of the prin- 
j cipal works connected with the subject, a few of which 
have been already referred to, and most of which have 
never been seen by the writer : — Codex Thtodasianus 
(ed. Gothofredus) ; Corpus Juris CirVis (cd. Gothofre- 
dus): Basilica (ed. Heim bach) ; Baluzii Capitularia — 
a more complete and satisfactory edition is found in 
Hertz, Monumenta Hist. Germ.; Libri Fatdorum, cum 
comnicntatione J. Cujaeii ; Fonchcr, Assizes de Jerusa- 
lem; Bcngnot, Assizes de Jerusalem (very instructive 
' extracts from this text are given in Cantu, Hut. Uni- 
verselle, vol. ix, append. A); Lespeyrcs, Entskhuny u. 
dltesle Ecarhcitung tier Lihb. Ftudorvm ; Marc id fi For- 
mulare ; Beaumanoir,Cow.*tam6s de Bcauroisis ; Jlonard, 
Co ulumes Anglo-Xormandes ,* Loysel, Institutions Cou- 
tumi'eres; Alteserra, Origincs Ftudorvm; Cara vita, Prce- 
lediones Feodales ; Cragius, De Fmdis ; Palrymple, 
History of Feudal Property ; Boc hmer, Principla Juris 
Feudorum; Snlvaing, E' Usage dcs Fiefs; Biussel, Usage 
Gt'iJrul des Fiefs ; Jenichen, Thesaurus Juiis Fivtlalis; 
Turgolc, Traits de la Seigmurie Feodcile Universe lie ; 
Guyot, Des Fiefs; Institutions Fiuelales; Winspcare, 
Abusi Feml ill; Gebauer .Origincs Feodi ; Le Fevre, De 
VOrigine des Fiefs; De Gaillardon, Scenes de la J7e Flo - 
dale au xiii Siecle ; Galland, Traitc du Franc- A lieu; La 
Boulave, Hist, du Droit Fonder en Ocddent ; Lehuerou, 
Institutions Mlroringimnes et Carolivgiennes ; Bucking, 
Xotitia Dignitatum Utri usque Imperii; Meyer, Esprit, 
Origine , et Pr ogres des Institutions Judicial) es ; Allen, 
On the Payed Prerogative ; Spence, Inquiry into the Ori 
gin of the Laws and Institutions of Modern Europe ; 
Equitable Jurisprudence of the Court of Chancery, vol. i ; 


FIELD 


551 


FIELD 


Savigny, TJist. du Droit Romain; Mortreuil, Hist, da 
Droit Byzantm ; Du Cange, G loss cir ium Med. et Inf. 
Latinitatis; Du Bos, Hist. Crit. de la Monarchie Fran- 
gaise ; Boulain villiers, Mem. Hist . $ar VEtat de France ; 
Mably, Observations sur V Ilistolre de France; Made- 
moiselle Dc Lezardiere, Tkeorie des lois politiques de la 
Monarchie Frangaise ; Montlosier, De la Monarchie 
Frangaise; Montesquieu, Esprit des Lois , liv. xxx, 
xxxi ; Guizot, Hist, de la Civilisation en Europe; Hist, 
de la Civ. en France ; Ozanam, La Civilisation au Cin- 
quieme STecle; Etudes Germaniques ; Blackstone, Com- 
mentaries on the Laics of England; Robertson, Life of 
the Emperor Charles I T ; Lyttelton, History of Henry 11 , 
King of England ; llallam, History of the Middle Ages ; 
and Supplement. ; Kemble, The Sarons in England; Pal- 
grave, The English Commonwealth ; Hist, of Xormaitdy 
and England; St. Palaye, llistoire de la Chevalerie ; St. 
Marie, Diss. Hist, sur la Chevalerie. (G. F. II.) 

Field (usually !YTw, sadeh' [poetic saday'~\, 
dyooQ ; but occasionally e'rets , land [Cliald. 

*12, bar , open country'], X l ’ J P a > chuts, out-doors; 

fijron, chelkidi , a portion or plot, \ojpiou ; 
she demtih' , a cultivated field, according to Gesenius 
and l'iirs t from the context, in the plur. Dent, xxxii, 
32; 2 Kings xxiii, 4 ; Isa. xvi, 8 ; Jer. xxxi, 40; I lab. 
iii, 17 ; also 35Y, yageb', an arable field, in the plur. 
Jer. xxxix, 10). The Hebrew sadeh is not adequately 
represented by our “field:” the two words agree in 
describing cultivated land, but they differ in point of 
extent, the sadeh being specifically applied to what is 
unenclosed , while the opposite notion of enclosure is in- 
volved in the word field (compare Desert). The es- 
sence of the Hebrew word has been variously taken to 
lie in each of these notions, Gesenius ( Thesaums , p. 
1321) giving it the sense of freedom , Stanley (Palest. 
p. 484) that of smoothness, comparing arvum from arare. 
On the one hand sadeh is applied to any cultivated 
ground, whether pasture (Gen. xxix, 2; xxxi, 4; 
xxxiv, 7 ; Exod. ix, 3), tillage (Gen. xxxvii, 7 ; xlvii, 
24 ; Ruth ii, 2, 3 ; Job xxiv, 6 ; Jer. xxvi, 18 ; Mic. iii, 
12), woodland (1 Sam. xiv, 25, A.Y. “ground;” Psa. 
cxxxii, fi), or mountain-top (Judg. ix, 32, 3G; 2 Sam. i, 
21) : and in some instances in marked opposition to 
the neighboring wilderness, as in the instance of Jacob 
settling in the field of Shechem (Gen. x xxiii, 19), the 
field of Moab (Gen. xxxvi, 35; Numb, xxi, 20, A.Y. 
“country;” Until i, 1), and the vale of Siddim, i. e. 
of the cultivated Jields , which formed the oasis of the 
Pentapolis (Gen. xiv, 3, 8), though a different sense 
has been given to the name (by Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 
1321). On the other hand, the sadeh is frequently 
contrasted with what is enclosed, ivhether a vineyard 
(Exod. xxii, 5; Lev. xxv, 3, 4; Numb, xvi, 14; xx, 
17 ; compare Numb, xxii, 23, “the ass -went into the 
field,” with ver. 24, “a path of the vineyards, a wall 
being on this side and a wall on that side”), a garden 
(the very name of which, implies enclosure), or a 
walled town (Deut. xxviii, 3, 10): unwalled villages 
or scattered houses ranked in the eye of the law as 
fields (Lev. xxv, 31), and hence the expression fhj 
rovg dypovQ= houses in the fields (Ynlg. in villas; Mark 
vi, 36, 50). In many passages the term implies what 
is remote from a house (Gen. iv, 8; xxiv, 03; Deut. 
xxii, 25) or settled habitation, as in the case of Esau 
(Gen. xxv, 27 ; the Sept., however, refers it to his 
character, dyooncot ;') : this is more fully expressed by 
“ the open field ” (Lev. xiv, 7, 53 ; xvii, 5 ; 
Numb, xix, 1(5; 2 Sam. xi, 11), with -which is natural- 
ly coupled the notion of exposure and desertion (Jer. 
ix, 22; Ezek. xvi, 5; xxxii, 4; xxxiii, 27; xxxix, 
5). See Meadow". 

The separate plots of ground were marked off by 
stones, which might easily be removed (Deut. xix, 
14; xxvii, 17; comp. Job xxiv, 2; Prow xxii, 28; 
xxiii, 10) ; the absence of fences rendered the fields 


liable to damage from straying cattle (Exod. xxii, 5) 
or fire (ver. 6 ; 2 Sam. xiv, 30) ; hence the necessity 
of constantly v’atcliing fioeks and herds, the people so 
employed being in the present day named Xcitur (Wor- 
tabet, Syria, i, 293). A certain amount of protection 
was gained by sowing the tallest and strongest of the 
grain crops on the outside : “ spelt” appears to have 
been most commonly used for this purpose (Isa. xxviii, 
25, as in the margin). From the absence of enclos- 
ures, cultivated land of any size might be termed a 
field, W'hetherit were a piece of ground of limited area 
(Gen. xxiii, 13, 17 ; Isa. v, 8), a man’s whole inherit- 
ance (Lev. xxvii, 16 sq. ; Ruth iv, 5; Jer. xxxii, 9, 
25 ; Prov. xxvii, 20; xxxi, 10), the ager publicus of a 
tow n (Gen. xli, 48; Nell, xii, 29), as distinct, however, 
from the ground immediately adjacent to the w r alls of 
the Levitical cities, which was called 113 (A. Y. 
“suburbs”), and w r as deemed an appendage of the 
town itself (Josh, xxi, 11, 12), or, lastly, the territory 
of a people (Gen. xiv, 7 ; xxxii, 3 ; xxxvi, 35 ; Numb, 
xxi, 20; Ruth i, 0; iv, 3; 1 Sam. vi, 1; xxvii, 7. 11). 
In 1 Sam. xxvii, 5, “a town in the field” (Auth.Yers. 
“ country”) = a provincial town as distinct from the 
royal city. A plot of ground separated from a larger 
one w T as termed !TTJ (Gen, xxxiii, 19; Ruth 

ii, 3; 1 Chron. xi, 13), or simply (2 Sam. xiv, 

50; xxiii, 12; comp. 2 Sam. xix, 29). Fields occa- 
sionally received names after remarkable events, as 
llelkath-Hazzurim, the fir ll of the strong men , or possi- 
bly of swords (2 Sam. ii, 10), or from the use to which 
they may have been applied (2 Kings xviii, 17 ; Isa. 
vii, 3; Matt, xxvii, 7). See Land. 

It should be observed that the expressions “fruit- 
ful field” (Isn. x, 18; xxix, 17; xxxii, 15, 10) and 
“plentiful field” (Isa. xvi. 10 ; Jer. xlviii, 33) are not 
connected with sadeh , but with Jcarmel, meaning a park 
or w'ell-kept w'ood, as distinct from a w ilder ess or 
a forest. The same term occurs in 2 Kings xix, 23, 
and Isa. xxxvii, 24 (A.Yers. “Carmel”); Isa. x, 18 
(“forest),” and Jer. iv, 20 (“fruitful place”). See 
Carmel. Distinct from this is the expression in 
Ezek. xvii, 5, (A.Y. “ fruitful field”), which 

means a field suited for planting suckers.— Smith, s. v. 
See Agriculture. 

Field, David Dudley, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born in East Guilford, Conn., May 20, 
1781, prepared for college under Dr. John Elliott, of 
Guilford, and graduated at Yale in 1802. After stud- 
ying theology under Dr. Backus, he was licensed to 
preach in 1803, and w r as installed pastor at East llad- 
dam in 1804. He filled this charge with great dili- 
gence and success until 1818, and in 1819 accepted a 
call to Stockbridge, Mass. After eighteen years’ pas- 
toral service at Stockbridge, he was called in 1837 to 
his old parish at Haddam. In 1848 he travelled in 
Europe. In 1851 he gave up his charge at Iladdam, 
and spent the remainder of his life in quiet retirement 
at Stockbridge, where he died April 15, 1807. Dr. 
Field w\ns a man of strong character. His mental 
powers were vigorous and comprehensive; his culture 
was at once thorough and varied. His duties as 
prcaelier and pastor were always filled with conscien- 
tious care ; and his long pastorates, with the unusual 
case of his return to his first charge after an absence 
of thirty-three years, sufficiently attest the confidence 
and affection of his parishioners. Of his ten children, 
six sons are now r living, and all eminent as profession- 
al men ; among them are Cyrus AY. Field, the “ father” 
of the Atlantic Telegraph, and Dr. H. M. Field, editor 
of The Xew York Evangelist. Besides a number of oc- 
casional sermons, Dr. Field published History of Mid- 
dlesex: — History of Berkshire: — Genealogy of the Brai- 
nerd Family. — Appleton’s Annual Cyclop. 1807, p. 301. 

Field, Richard, D.D., one of the best of the High* 


FIELD-PREACHING 


552 


FIELD-PREACHING 


Church writers of the Church of England, was horn at 
Hampstead, Hertfordshire, in 15(51, and was educated 
at Magdalen Hall, Oxford, where ho lectured for seven 
years on logic and philosophy, and gained the reputa- 
tion of a learned preacher and an acute disputant. 
He was afterwards reader of divinity at Lincoln’s Inn, 
London, and rector of Burgh clear in Hampshire. Here 
he refused the offer of St. Andrew’s, in Holborn, Lon- 
don, a much more valuable living, that he might serve 
Cod and pursue his studies in a more retired situation. 
In 1508 queen Elizabeth made him one of her chap- 
lains, and he formed a warm friendship with Iiichard 
Hooker, a man of kindred spirit. In 1(504 he was 
m ule canon of Windsor, and in 1609 dean of Glouces- 
ter. “ lie was esteemed a perfect oracle in ecclesias- 
tical learning. Divines, even of the first order, scarce 
ever went to him without loading themselves with 
questions. Fuller calls him ‘that learned divine, whose 
memory smelleth like a field which the Lord hath 
blessed.’ When king James heard him preach the first 
time, lie said, ‘This is a Field for God to dwell in.’ His 
majesty retained so good an opinion of him that he de- 
signed to raise him to the bishopric of Oxford ; hut 
God was pleased, as Mr. Wood remarks, to prefer him 
for a better place, for, on the 21st of November, 161G, 
he died, leaving behind him a character equally great 
and amiable. Ills reputation rests securely on his 
great work, The Book of the Church , which was origin- 
ally issued in 1606, and with a fifth book added in 1810. 
A new edition, printed for the “ Eccl. Hist. Society,” 
appeared at Cambridge, 1847*52 (4 vols. 8vo). — Hook, 
Eccl. Blog. v, 116 ; Middleton, Eccl. Bing, ii, 374. 

Fielcl-preaching, or preaching in the open air, 
“a plan adopted by reformers in every age, in order 
to propagate more extensively and effectually their 
peculiar sentiments among the great masses of the 
people. Christ and his apostles not only availed them- 
selves of the privileges which the synagogues afforded 
of making known the ‘ Gospel of the Kingdom’ to those, 
who assembled therein from Sabbath to Sabbath, they 
also proclaimed the doctrines and precepts of the new 
dispensation on the highways and hedges, on the sea- 
shore and on the barren glade, on the mountain’s side 
and in the streets of the teeming city. Wherever men 
were found, and under whatever circumstances the} r 
were placed, if their ears could be reached, there the 
voice of the first teachers of Christianity was heard, 
warning sinners of coming danger, and pointing out 
the only way of escape — the only medium of access 
unto God. So was it, too, with other reformers, whose 
labors our limits forbid our noticing, as we desire to 
add a few words on the field-preaching of Whitefield 
and Wesley. The practice was commenced by the 
former, and that without any misgivings as to the ‘ir- 
regularity’ of such a strange proceeding; whereas the 
hitter, though a man of more highly cultivated intel- 
lect, and who, on that account, ought to have risen su- 
perior to the prejudices of his order, was, with much 
reluctance, induced to follow in the course so heroical- 
ly opened up by the eloquent Whitefield. But having 
once commenced, there was no drawing back ; lie had 
taken lo the field, and no man’s face or frown should 
cause him to retire. John Wesley was not a man of 
a weak and shrinking spirit, as his whole life testifies ; 
but he was a man who proved himself on all occasions 
to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ. When Whitefield 
was refused the pulpits of the London and Bristol 
churches, and after he had been threatened by the 
chancellor of the diocese of the latter place with sus- 
pension and excommunication if he persisted in preach- 
ing in his diocese without a license, he resolved in his 
mind whether it might not be his duty to preach in the 
open air. Indeed, lie had thought of this before lie 
was refused permission to preach in the pulpits of the 
establishment, when he saw that thousands who sought 
to hear him could not gain admittance into the church- 
es. lie mentioned his thoughts to some friends, who 


pronounced the idea to be a mad one ; but now, he be- 
lieved tluit in Bristol his duty in this respect was no 
longer doubtful. Moreover, many persons said to him, 
‘ What need of going abroad? Have we not Indians 
enough at home ? If you have a mind to convert In- 
dians, there are colliers enough at Kingswood.’ To 
these, therefore, he determined to preach the message 
of reconciliation. The colliers at Kingswood were 
without any means of religions instruction ; they had 
no church in which to worship, no minister to teach 
them the duties of religion, or to pray with them; 
hence they were notorious for their brutality and wick- 
edness, and in times of excitement were a terror to all 
around them. On February 17, 1739, Whitefield pro- 
ceeded to Bose Green, Kingswood (his first tield-pulpit), 
where he preached to as many as the novelty of the 
scene collected, which were about 200. ‘ The ice be- 

ing now broke’ — to use his own observation on this 
first open-air sermon — he determined to persevere in 
tlie same course. Accordingly, he visited Kingswood 
frequently, and every time he went there the number 
of his hearers increased ; for, besides the colliers, thou- 
[ sands of all ranks flocked from Bristol and the neigh- 
borhood, and the congregation was sometimes com- 
puted at 20,000. With gladness and eagerness many 
of these despised outcasts, who had never been in a 
church iu their lives, received the instruction of this 
eminent follower of him who ‘ icent about doing good.’ 
‘The first discovery,’ says he, ‘of their being affected 
I was to see the white gutters made by their tears, which 
plentifully fell down their black cheeks, as they came 

out of their coal-pits Sometimes, when 20,000 

people were before me, I had not, in my own appre- 
hension, a word to say, either to God (in prayer) or to 

them (by preaching) The open firmament 

above me, the prospect of the adjacent fields, with the 
sight of thousands and thousands, some in coaches, 
some on horseback, and some on the trees, and at times 
all affected and drenched in tears together, to which 
sometimes was added the solemnity of the approach- 
ing evening, was almost too much for, and quite over- 
came me.’ Whitefield was then requested to preach 
in a bowling-green in the city, and he complied. 
Many of the audience sneered to see a stripling with a 
gown mount a table on unconsecrated ground ; for 
field-preaching, since common enough in England, was 
then unknown, and therefore obloquy was poured upon 
it. Ilis engagements so increased that lie sought the 
help of Mr. Wesley. Without delay Mr. "Wesley pro- 
ceeded to Bristol, and on his arrival was invited to 
preach in the open air. ‘ I could scarce reconcile my- 
self at first,’ says he, ‘to this strange way of preach- 
ing in the fields, of which he (Whitefield) set me the 
example on the Sunday, having been all my life, till 
very lately, so tenacious of every point relating to de- 
cency and order that I should have thought the saving 
of souls a sin if it had not been done in a church.’ 
However, on the following day, Mr. Wesley preached 
from a little eminence in an open ground adjoining 
the city to about 3000 people. In the days of White- 
field aiul the Wesleys field-preaching was not unfre- 
t queutly attended with danger. Though they often 
met with a kind reception from the multitudes, vet at 
! other times they experienced the rudest and most de- 
termined opposition, and often their lives were in im- 
j miuent peril from the violence of an ignorant, de- 
praved, and excited populace. In his Earnest Appeal, 
Mr. Wesley asks, ‘ Who is there among you, brethren, 
that is willing (examine your own hearts) even to 
save souls from death at this price? Would not you 
let a thousand souls perish rather than you would be 
the instrument of rescuing them thus ? I do not speak 
now with regard to conscience, but to the inconven- 
iences that must accompany it. Can you sustain them 
if von would ? Can yon bear the summer sun to 1 eat 
upon your naked head? Can you suffer the wintry 
rain or wind, from whatever quarter it blows? Are 


FIELD-PREACHING 


553 


FIG 


vou able to stand in the open air, without any cover- 
ing or defence, when God castetli abroad his snow like 
wool, or scattereth his hoar frost like ashes ? And yet 
these are some of the smallest inconveniences which 
accompany ti eld-preachi ug. Far beyond all these are 
the contradiction of singers, the scoffs both of the great 
vulgar and the small : contempt and reproach of every 
kind ; often more than verbal affronts — stupid, brutal 
viol ence. sometimes to the hazard of health, or limbs, 
or life. Brethren, do you envy us this honor? What, 
I pray you, would buy you to be a field-preacher?’ 
When Mr. Wesley had been accustomed to field-preach- 
ing for more than twenty years, lie made the follow- 
ing remarks: ‘One hour in Moorfields might convince 
any impartial man of the expediency of field-preach- 
ing. What building, except St. Paul’s church, could 
contain such a congregation? and if it would, what 
human voice could have reached them there? By re- 
peated observations, I find I can command thrice the 
number in the open air that T can under a roof. And 
who can say the time for field-preaching is over, while, 
1. Greater numbers than ever attend ; 2. The convert- 
ing as well as the convincing power of God is emi- 
nently present with them ?’ One extract more, and 
this article must close. Mr. Wesley thus describes 
these open-air services : 4 1 cannot say I have ever seen 
a more awful sight than when, on Pose Green or the 
top of Hannan Mount, some thousands of people were 
calmly joined together in solemn waiting upon God, 
while 

‘ “They stood, and under open air adored 

The God who made both air, earth, heaven, and sky.’' ’ 

And wdiether they were listening to his word with at- 
tention still as night, or were lifting up their voice in 
praise as the sound of many waters, many a time have 
1 been constrained to say in my heart, “How dreadful 
is this place!” This, also, “ is no other than the house 
of God ! this is the gate of heaven !” ’ (See Memoirs 
of Wesley, by Coke, Southey, and Watson ; also Jack- 
son’s Centaury of Wesleyan Methodism.') Having now 
once adopted this mode of imparting instruction to the 
neglected classes of the community, Mr. Wesley never 
abandoned it to the end of his life ; and in a short time 
his brother Charles followed his example in the same 
self-denying labor of love, being urged thereto by the 
indefatigable Whitcfield. Mr. Charles Wesley’s first 
field-sermon was preached at Moorfields on June 2-1, 
1730, his congregation amounting to about 1000, and 
in the evening of the same day he preached to multi- 
tudes on Kennington Common. A few weeks after- 
wards he preached to about 10,000 people in Moor- 
fields ; and for several years he followed with equal 
steps both his brother and Mr. Whitcfield in laborious 
zeal and public usefulness. It is not to be supposed 
that Mr. Wesley had not preached in the open air till 
the time he was induced by Mr. Whitcfield to do so at 
Bristol. lie had done so in Georgia before Mr. White- 
field was ordained, hut he had no intention of resum- 
ing the practice in England until compelled to do so 
by the necessities of the case. He says, ‘Wherever 1 
was now desired to preach (in churches), salvation by 

faith was my only theme Things were in this 

posture when I was told I must preach no more in 
this, and this, and another church •, the reason was 
usually added without reserve, “ Because you preach 
such doctrine.” .... After a time T determined to do 
the same tiling in England which I had often done in 
a warmer climate— to preach in the open air.’ k Be 
pleased to observe,’ he adds, *1. That I was forbidden 
to preach in any church for preaching such doc- 
trine.” 2. That I had no desire nor design to preach 
in the open air till after the prohibition. 3. That when 
I did, as it was no matter of choice, so neither of pre- 
meditation. There was no scheme at all previously 
formed which was to be supported thereby. 4. Fichi- 
preaching was therefore a sudden expedient — a thing 
submitted to rather than chosen ; and therefore sub- 


mitted to because I thought preaching even thus hefr 
ter than not preaching at all.’ Field-preaching, or, as 
it was called, tent-preaching, that is, preaching from a 
tent, was common in Scotland on summer sacramental 
occasions lip till a very recent period. The practice 
still survives in some parts of the Highlands. Thou- 
sands from neighboring parishes used to assemble on 
the brae or in the quiet hollow', and listen to the word 
of life. But unhallowed scenes sometimes occurred, 
of which Burns’s Holy Fair is an exaggerated picture ; 
and such gatherings have been discontinued. Of late, 
how'ever, field-preaching has been resorted to for a dif- 
ferent purpose — that of evangelization — so that the 
masses may be reached which have given up attend- 
ance at the house of God. Everywhere the result 
seems to be satisfactory, and the practice is every year 
more and more extensively followed in Great Britain.” 
— Eadie, Eccl. Cyclop . s. v. See Camp-meeting. 

Fifth -monarchy -men, a sect of Millenarians 
which sprung up in the time of Cromwell, and held 
that the millennial reign of Christ on earth, styled 
by them the fifth great monarchy, reckoned in succes- 
sion with the Assyrian, Persian, Grecian, and Homan 
ones, was then to begin. Under the lead of Thomas 
Yenner, a wine-cooper, they formed a plot to inaugu- 
rate their kingdom of the saints on April 9th, 1057. but 
were foiled by the vigilance of Thurloe, the secretary 
of state, and a number of the conspirators, arrested 
with arms in their hands, were sent to the Tower, 
though the penalty of the law, death, was not inflicted 
on airy of them. On the Gth of January, 1001, some 
fifty or sixty of these madmen, led by the same Yen- 
ner, rose in insurrection, if we may term it such, 
against the government of Charles II, proclaimed 
“ king Jesus,” attacked the police force, and, after 
concealing themselves for tw'o days in Caen Wood, 
near Ilighgate, returned to encounter the train-bands, 
insanely believing that neither bullet nor steel could 
harm them. Most of them, refusing quarter, were 
slain outright ; but Yenner and sixteen others were 
taken, tried, and executed. — Knight, Popular Hist, of 
England , iv, 200, 251 ; Pictorial Hist, of England , iii, 
421, 070 (Chambers’s ed.); Burnet, Hist, of His Own 
Times , vol. i, bk. ii ; Baxter, Hist, of the Church of 
England, p. GOO, 011 : Neal, Hist, of the Puritans (Lon- 
don), iv, 186. (J.W.M.) 

Fig. The usual Hebrew word for this is 
( tehiali , of uncertain etymology), which is universally 
translated fig (N. T. gvkov ) and fig-tree (N. T. ovkT]) 
in both ancient and modern versions, and no doubt 
correctly so. It has from the earliest times been a 
highly esteemed fruit in the East, and its present as 
well as ancient Arabic name is tin. When figs are 
spoken of as distinguished from the fig-tree, the masc. 
plur. form D^XPl is used (see .Ter. viii, 13). The oth- 
er -words rendered jffty in the Anth. Yers. are : ns 
“green fig,” Cant, ii, 13; oXuiOoc, “ untimely fig,” 
Rev. vi, 13), a designation of the late fig, which, being 
unripe at the proper time for gathering, frequently 
hangs on the tree over winter (comp, also the name 
Betii-piiage) ; and inUlSS (bikkurali, “first ripe,” 
Isa. xxviii, 4; Jer. xxiv, 2 ; Mic. vii, 1 ; Hos. ix, 10), 
which denotes the early or spring fig, still called 5oc- 
enre in Mauritania, and in Spanish albacara (Shaw, 
Travels, p. 370, fol.). See also Sycamoke. 

The fig is mentioned in so many passages of Scrip- 
ture that our space will not allow ns to enumerate 
them, hut they are detailed by Celsius ( Hierobot . ii, 
308). The first notice of it, however, occurs in Gen. 
iii, 7, where Adam and Eve are described as sewing 
fig-leaves together to make themselves aprons. The 
common -leaf is not so well suited, from its lobed 
nature, for this purpose ; hut the practice of sewing or 
pinning leaves together is very common in the East 
even in the present day, and baskets, dishes, and urn* 


FIG 


554 


FIG 


brellas are made of leaves so pinned or sewn together, 
lienee some have supposed the Ficus Indica to be the 
tree there referred to, but this is unlikely and unnec- 
essary. The iig-tree is enumerated (Deut. viii, 8) as 
one of the valuable products of Palestine, “a land of 
wheat, and barley, and vines, and fig-trees, and pome- 



granates.” The spies who were sent from the wilder- 
ness of Paran brought back from the brook of Eshcol 
clusters of grapes, pomegranates, and figs. Mount Ol- 
ivet was famous for its tig-trees in ancient times, and 
they are still found there (see Stanley, Sinai arid Puhs- 
tine , p. 1S7, 421, -122). The fig- f ree is referred to as 
one of the signs of prosperity (1 Kings iv, 25). Hence 
“to sit under one’s own vine and one’s own fig-tree” 
became a proverbial expression among the Jews to 
denote peace and prosperity (Mic. iv, 4 ; Zecli. iii, 10). 
The failure of this fruit is likewise noted as a sign of 
affliction (Psa. ev, 33). The very frequent references 
which are made in the Old Testament to the fig anti 
other fruit-trees are in consequence of fruits forming a 
much more important article of diet in the warm and 
dry countries of the East than they can ever do in the 
cold and moist regions of the North (see Judith x, 5; 
comp. Mishna, Shehiith , iv, 7). Figs are also used me- 
dicinally ; and we have a notice in 2 Kings xx, 7, of 
their employment as a poultice (comp. Pliny, xxiii, G2 • 
IHoseor. i, 184). In the historical books of the Old 
Testament mention is made of cakes of figs, used as 
articles of food, and compressed into that form for the 
sake of keeping them {i<y\deec, carica % Lucian, T 'it. 
A itet. 19; Martial, xiii, 28). Such a cake was called 
(Talmud, or Mishna, iv, 8), 

or more fully PPILHj 011 account of its shape, 

from the root to male round (see 1 Sam. xxx, 
12 ; Jcr. xxiv, 2 sq.). Hence, or rather from the Svr- 
iae the first letter being dropped, came the Gr. 

word t -a\dQi} (see Wcsseling, ad . Diod. Sic . xvii, 67). 
Athen.vus (xi, p. 500, ed. Casaub.) makes express men- 
tion of the. 7 raXdOij EvputKi). Jerome, on Ezek. vi, 
describes the 7 as a mass of figs and rich 
dates, formed into the shape of bricks or tiles, and com- 
pressed in order that they may keep. Such cakes 
harden so as to need cutting with an axe. The fig is 
still extensively cultivated in the East, and in a dried 
state, strung upon cords, it forms an extensive article 
of commerce from Persia to India. The fig-tree, 
though now successfully cultivated in a great part of 
Europe, even as far north as the southern parts of 


England, is yet a native of the East, and probably of 
the Persian region, where it is most extensively culti- 
vated. The climate there is such that the tree must 
necessarily be able to bear some degree of cold, and 
thus be fitted to travel northwards, and ripen its fruit 
where there is a sufficient amount and continuance of 
summer heat. It has a smooth stem, which is seldom 
quite straight, and is covered with a gray bark; the 
leaves are of the shape of a heart, with three or five 
lobes, and are indented; the upper side is rough, the 
lower is covered with fine hair. The fruit makes its 
appearance before the leaves, but not before the flow- 
ers or blossom, which lies concealed within a hollow, 
fleshy receptacle (llogg, Vegetable Kingdom , p. 676), 
The fertilization of the blossoms is often assisted Iv 
an artificial process called capri ficaiion (Fliny, xx, 21 ; 
Tournefort, ii, 32 ; Russel, Aleppo, i, 168 ; Hasselquist, 
p. 221). See the Penny Cyclopaedia , s. v. 



Fig-tree, Gutrsed. Few passages in the Gospels 
have given occasion to so much perplexity as that of 
Mark xi, 13, where the evangelist relates the circum- 
stance of our Lord’s cursing the fig-tree near Bethany : 
“And seeing a fig-tree afar off having leaves, he came, 
if haply he might find anything thereon: and when 
he came to it lie found nothing but leaves, for the 
time of jigs teas not yet.' 1 The apparent unreasonable- 
ness of seeking fruit at a time when none could natu- 
rally be expected, and the consequent injustice of the 
sentence pronounced upon the tree, has been made the 
ground of grave impeachment of the Gospel record, 
and of our Saviour’s character itself. 

The fig-tree ( Ficus Carica) in Palestine produces 
fruit at two, or even three different periods of the year : 
first, there is the bikkurah , or “early-ripe fig” ( 7 rpc- 
cpopoQ, pnvcox, Plinv, xv, 19; xvi, 49; Macrob. Sat. 
ii, 16), frequently mentioned in tbe O.T. (see Mic. vii, 
1 ; Isa. xxviii, 4 ; llos. ix, 10), which ripens on an av- 
erage towards the end of June, though in favorable 
places of soil or temperature the figs may ripen a little 
earlier, while under less favorable circumstances they 
may not be matured till the middle of July (lluhle, 
Calendar ( Peon . p. 15). The bikkurah drops off the 
tree as soon as ripe; hence the allusion in Nah. iii, 12, 
when shaken they “even fall into the mouth of the 
eater.” Shaw ( Trar . i, 264, 8vo ed.) aptly compares 
the Spanish name breba for this early fruit, “quasi 
breve." as continuing only for a short time. About 
the time of the ripening of tbe bikkurim the kermus 
or summer fig begins to be formed ; these rarely ripen 
before August (lluhle, ut sup. p. 41), when another 
crop, called “ the winter fig,” appears. Shaw describes 
this kind as being of a much longer shape and darker 


FIG 


555 


FIGHT 


complexion than the hermits , hanging and ripening 
on the tree even after the leaves are shed, and, pro- 
vided the winter proves mild and temperate, as gath- 
ered as a delicious morsel in the spring (see Miss Bre- 
mer’s Travels in the Holy Land , i, 105 ; compare Pliny, 
N. If. xvi, 20, 27). Thus, especially in sheltered sit- 
uations (e. g. the plain of Gennesareth, Josephus, War, 
iii, 10, 8), fresh figs might be had at almost all seasons 
of the year (compare Strabo, xi, 508; Columella, Ar- 
bor. 21). 

The attempts to explain the above-quoted passage 
in Mark are numerous, and for the most part very 
unsatisfactory; passing over, therefore, the ingenious 
though objectionable reading proposed by Dan. Hein- 
sius ( Kxercit . Sac. ed. 1G39, p. 11G) of ou -yap gr, kcu- 
pog avKtov — “ wliele he was, it was the season for figs” 
— and merely mentioning another proposal to read 
that clause of the evangelist’s remark as a question, 
“for was it not the season of figs?” and the no less 
unsatisfactory rendering of Hammond (Annot. ad St. 
Mark), “it was not a good season for figs,” we come 
to the interpretations which, though not perhaps of re- 
cent origin, we find in modern works. 

The explanation which has found favor with most 
writers is that which understands the words icaiobt ; 
gvkojv to mean “the fig-harvest the yap in this ease 
is referred, not to the clause immediately preceding, 
“he found nothing but leaves,” but to the more re- 
mote one, “he came if haply he might find anything 
thereon ;” for a similar trajection it is usual to refer to 
Mark xvi, 3, 4; the sense of the whole passage would 
then be as follows : “And seeing a fig-tree afar off 
having leaves, he came if perchance he might find any 
fruit on it (and he oughg to have found some), for the 
time of gathering it had not yet arrived, but when he 
came he found nothing but leaves.” (See the notes 
in the Greek Testaments of Burton, Trollope, Bloom- 
field, Webster, and Wilkinson ; Maeknight, Harm, of 
the Gospels , ii, 501, note, 1800; Elsle) r ’s Annot. ad 1. e., 
etc.) A forcible objection to this explanation will be 
found in the fact that at the time implied, viz. the end 
of March or the beginning of April, no figs at all eata- 
ble would be found on the trees : the bikknrim seldom 
ripen in Palestine before the end of June, and at the 
time of the Passover, the fruit, to use Shaw’s expres- 
sion, would he “hard, and no bigger than common 
plums,” corresponding in this state to the paggim 
(C" 1 ^) of Cant, ii, 13, wholly unfit for food in an un- 
prepared state; and it is blit reasonable to infer that 
our Lord expected to find something more palatable 
than these small, sour things upon a tree which b}' its 
show of foliage bespoke, though falsely, a correspond- 
ing show of good fruit, for it is important to remember 
that the fruit comes before the leaves. Again, if KaipoQ 
denotes the “fig-harvest,” we must suppose that, al- 
though the fruit might not have been ripe, the season 
was not very far distant, and that the figs in conse- 
quence must hare been considerably more matured 
than these hard paggim; but is it probable that Mark 
would have thought it necessary to state that it was 
not yet the season for gathering figs in March, when 
they could not have been fit to gather before June at 
the earliest? It would be better to understand the 
ydp here in an adversative-illative sense = although. 

There is another way of seeking to get over the dif- 
ficulty by supposing that the tree in question was not 
of the ordinary kind. Celsius (Merab, ii, 385) says 
there is a peculiar fig-tree known to the Jews by the 
name of Benoth-shuach (“VJ r^-), which produces 
grossuli , “small unripe figs” (paggim) every year, but 
only good fruit every third year ; and that our Lord 
came to this tree at a time when the ordinary annual 
grossuli only were produced! We are ignorant as to 
what tree the Benoth-shuach may denote, but it is ob- 
vious that the apparent unreasonableness remains as it 
was. As to the tree which Whitby (Commentary in 


Mark , 1. c.) identifies with the orte in question, that il 
was that kind which Theophrastus (Hist. Plant, iv, 2, 
§ 4) calls iuttjivWov, “evergreen,” it is enough to oh* 

; serve that this is no fig at all, but the earob or locust 
tree (Ceratonia siligua). Dr. Thomson, however, 
speaks of a large green-colored fig that ripens in May 
i on Lebanon, and probably much eailier in milder po- 
1 sitions (Land and Book , i, 538). 

But, after all, where is the unreasonableness of the 
I whola transaction ? It has been stated above that the 
fruit of the lig-tree appears before the leaves (seo 
Haekett, Must, of Scripture, p. 133); consequently, if 
tlie tree produced leaves, it should also have had somo 
figs as well. As to what natural causes had operated to 
effect so unusual a tiling as for a fig-tree to have leaves 
, in March, it is unimportant to inquire; but the step- 
j ping out of the way with the possible chance (ti cipa, 
si forte, “ under the circumstances ;” see Winer, Gram . 
of X. Test. Diction, p. 4G5, Masson's transl.) of finding 
eatable fruit on a fig-tree in leaf at the end of March, 

I would probably be repeated by any observant modern 
traveller in Palestine. The whole question turns on 
the pretensions of the tree ; had it not proclaimed by 
its foliage its superiority over other fig-trees, and thus 
proudly exhibited its precociousness ; bad our Lord at 
: that season of the year visited any of the other fig- 
i trees upon which no leaves had as yet appeared with 
the prospect of finding fruit, then the ease would be 
| altered, and the unreasonableness and injustice real. 
The words of Mark, therefore, are to be understood in 
the sense which the order of the words naturally sug- 
| gests. The evangelist gives the reason why no fruit 
I teas found on the tree, viz. “because it was not the 
I time for fruit;” we are left to infer the reason why it 
ought to have had fruit if it were true to its pretensions ; 
and it must be remembered that this miracle had a 
typical design (see the Christ. A nnotator, i, 228), to show 
how God would deal with the Jews, who, professing, 
like this precocious fig-tree, “to he tird,” should he 
“last” in his favor, seeing that no fruit was produced 
in their lives, but only, as Wordsworth well expresses 
it, “the rustling leaves of a religious profession, the 
barren traditions of the Pharisees, the ostentatious 
display of the law, and vain exuberance of words 
without the good fruit of works” (comp. Ezek. xvii, 
24). So Trench (Notes on the Miracles, p. 438) con- 
cludes : “All the explanations which go to prove that, 
according to the natural order of things in a climate 
like that of Palestine, there might have been, even at 
this early time of the year, figs on that tree, either 
winter figs which had survived till spring, or the early 
figs of spring themselves — all these, ingenious as they 
often are, yet seem to me beside the matter. For, 
without entering further into the question whether 
they prove their point or not, they shatter upon that 
ou y dp i)v KaipoQ ovkiov of Mark^/rom which it is plain 
that no such calculation of probabilities brought the Lord 
thither, but those abnormal leaves which he had a right to 
count would h ire been accompanied with abnormal fruit.” 
— Smith, s. v. 

Monographs on this fig-tree cursed by the Saviour 
have been written in Latin by Flensborg (Hafn. 1775), 
Gosgen (Lips. 1G97), Hofmann (Jena, 1G70), I ken (lire* 
men, 1741), Juster (Abo, 1724), Muler (Ilafn iso, 1739), 
Schmidt (Viteb. 1701), Majus (in Obss. sacr. p. 71 sq.), 
Simonis (Fr. ad V. 1G89), Withon (in Opusc. p. 159 sq.), 
Witsius (Lugd. Bat. 1709) ; in German by Pagendarm 
(Wolfenb. 1755), Ebeling (in l I a, mb. gel. Briefwechsel. 
1750, p. 513 sq.), Stoseh (in Iiathlef’s ThcoTg. 1754, p. 
27 sq.), Kuiize (in the Studicn u. Krit. 1844, iii, 702). 
See Jesus. 

Fight (iTSm!?^, milchamali Deut. ii, 32; 1 Kings 
xx, 2G; 2 Chron. xxvi, 11 ; xxxii, 2, war or battle, as 
usually rendered; or SlZ‘iy‘2, maarakafT , 1 Sam. xvii. 
20, battle-«?'r«y, as often rendered ; in other passage! 
some form of the verbs etc.; Gr. t?6\c* 

- T ) T T) 7 


FIGHT 


556 


FIGHT 


po g, war, as usually rendered, or na\t ) ; also dyiov, 
etc.). The Israelites began their existence as a na- 
tion with an aggressive campaign, in the sequel of 
which nevertheless they were from time to time com- 
pelled to occupy a defensive position throughout the 
entire period of the Judges (q. v.). This consisted, 
however, for the most part, of tumultuary and discon- 
nected skirmishes, liegular engagements first occur- 
red under (Saul and) David; and the frequent hostile 
collisions of disciplined Hebrew generals in the civil 
and foreign commotions of subsequent periods must 
have greatly stimulated military training. The open- 
ing of a campaign (generally in spring, 2 Sam. xi, 1; 
Josephus, Ant. vii, 0, 3; Harmer, ii, 283), as well as 
of single engagements, although not prefaced by reg- 
ular diplomatic communications or a declaration of 
war (but see Jiulg. xi, 12 sq. , 1 Kings xx, 2 sq. ; 2 
Kings xiv, 8; Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 41), was preceded 
in important and deliberate cases by an interrogation 
of the Urim (q. v.) and Thummim (Judg. xx, 27 sq. ; 
1 Sam. xiv, 37 : xxiii, 2 ; xxviii, 6 ; xx, 8) or a proph- 
et (1 Kings xxii, G sq. ; 2 Chron. xviii, 4 sq. ; 2 Kings 

xix, 2 sq.), in like manner as the Greeks consulted 
oracles before beginning a contest, and even took seers 
with them to the field (see Waehsmuth, Jlellen. Alterih. 
iii, 390, 411). A peculiar species of divination prior 
to an attack is mentioned (Ezck. xxi, 20 sq.) with 
regard to the Chaldieans (see Lot), like the extispi- 
cium of the Homans (Cicero, Divin. i, 1G; ii. 12 sq.). 
See Soothsayer. In solemn instances, while the 
army stood in sight of the enemy, an offering was 
brought (1 Sam. vii, 9 ; xiii, 9 sq.), and a priest (Deut. 

xx, 2 sq.), who always appears to have accompanied 
the prince to the field (2 Chron. xiii, 12, 14 ; comp. 
Num. x, 9; a specially selected and anointed func- 
tionary of this kind, like a modern field-chaplain [Mill, 
De sacerdote castrcnsi vt ter. TIebr. Utr. 1728], is men- 
tioned in the Mislina, Sotali , viii, 1, by the name of *j“2 
♦1 rn see Roland, Antiq. Sacr. ii, 3, 2 ; Otlio, 
Lex. Ralb. p. 89; Van Alphen, in Oelrich’s Collectio , 
ii, 515 sq. , Tatii Diss. de sacerdote castr. Hebr ., and 
Ugolini Diss. de sneer, castr. [both in Ugolini Thesaur. 
xii] ; Thorschmied, De sacerdote ad bell, undo , Torg. 
1737 ; Kretzschmar, De undo belli t Drcsd. 1738 ; al- 
though not mentioned in the O.-T. books; comp. Dev- 
ling, Observe, ii, 298 ; Lakemacher, Observe. Philol. iii, 
23G sq.), or the commander himself, delivered a hor- 
tatory oration (2 Chron. xx, 20). Then followed by 
a trumpet blast the signal for the conflict (Numb, xiii, 
12 ; 1 Macc. xvi, 8), and the struggle began amid ter- 
rific battle-cries (n^spri, 1 Sam. xvii, 52 ; Isa. xiii, 
13; Amos i, 14; Jer. 1,42; Ezek. xxi, 22; as among 
almost all ancient nations ; see especially Homer, 11. 

11, 144 sq., 394 sq. ; iii, 2 sq. ; iv, 452 sq. ; Curt, iii, 

10, 1 ; Tacit. Germ, iii, a ; Dougtan Analect. i, 74 sq. ; 
Potter, Greek Antiq. ii, 174 sq.). The battle-array 
(nr^y^ or 1 Sam. iv, 2; xxii, S, 20, etc.; 

comp. "“2‘, Judg. xx, 30 ; 1 Sam. xvii, 21) appears to 
have been a simple ranging of the troops in line; and 
even in the Maceabicnn period, when the Jews had ac- 
quired some of the strategic art of the Greek Syrians, 
their leaders seem to have rested in their simple tac- 
tics, gaining advantage over the martial skill of the 
enemy chiefly by their patriotic valor. Scientific mar- 
shallings and exact military lists are mentioned in 1 
Mace, vii, 3G sq. ; ix, 11 ; comp. ver. 45 (see Joseph. 
Ant. xiii, 12, 5) ; x, 77 sq. ; xii, 28. The foreign troops 
of the later Jewish kings were manoeuvred according 
to Greek and Roman tactics (comp. Joseph. Ant. xiii, 

12, 5). For stratagems of the Jews during their final 
war, see Josephus, liar, iii, 7, 13, 14, 20, 28. -Never- 
theless we can early trace a division of the army into 
three corps, probably with a view to charge the ene- 
my in the centre and upon both flanks (Judg. vii, 1G, 
19; 1 Sam. xi, 11; 2 Sam. xviii, 2; comp. 1 Macc. v, 


33 ; so four divisions, 2 Macc. viii, 22 : the expression 
wings of the army was already known, comp. 

Isa. viii, 8 ; L"E;N, Ezek. xii, 14, 17 ; xxxviii, G, etc.; 
see Gesenius, Comment, zu Jes. i, 335, and Thesaur. p. 
229). The field -was probably fought man against 
mail. The extended arms of the combatants appear 
to have been bare (“exserti lacerti, humeri,” etc. 
-Sil. Ital. xii, 715; Lucan, ii, 543 ; Statius, Theb. i, 413, 
etc.), the military mantle having no armlets (ei nip. 
Ezek. iv, 7; Isa. Iii, 10; so Dougtafi Analect. i, 257 
sq.). Great prowess, especially bodily dexterity and 
agility (for attack and pursuit), was a main qualifica- 
tion for the soldier or officer (2 Sam. i, 23: ii, 18; 1 
Chron. xii, 8; Hah. iii, 19; the “swift of feet” of the 
Homeric heroes). Signals for retreat or desisting from 
pursuit of the enemy were sounded on the trumpet 
(“Sir, 2 Sam. ii, 28 ; xviii, 1G ; xx, 22). Single com- 
bat (q. v.) between two champions, which decided the 
battle (like the Horatii and Curiatii of Livy, i, 24), is 
the well-known one between David and Goliath (1 
Sam. xvii) ; another example occurs 2 Sam. ii, 14 sq. 
Sometimes peculiar stratagems were resorted to in the 
fight (comp. 2 Kings vii, 12 sq. ; see Rcsenmiillcr, 
Morgenl. iii, 233 sq.), especially the surprise (Judg. 
vii, 1G sq.), the ambuscade (rHX, Josh, viii, 2, 12; 
Judg. xx, 36; 1 Sam. xv, 5), and surrounding (2 
Sam. v, 23). Informants and spies (2"2f**Z, Kara - 
gkottoi) were also employed (Josh, ii, vi, xxii; Judg. 
vii, 10 sq. ; 1 Sam. xxvi, 4; 1 Mace, v, 38; xii, 26). 
Distinguished acts of individual valor were often se- 
cured by an appointed prize (Josh, xv, 1G ; Judg. i, 
12 ; 1 Sam. xvii, 25 sq. ; xviii^ 25 sq. ; 1 Chron. xi, G). 
With the design of insuring a successful issue in bat- 
tle, the sanctuary (ark of the covenant) was sometimes 
carried into the field (1 Sam. iv, 4 sq. ; comp. 2 Sam. 
v, 21). We have no sufficient accounts as to the dis- 
position of the Hebrew camp aside from the Mosaic 
arrangement (Numb, ii) ; although from 1 Sam. xvii, 
20; xxvi, 5, it appears to have had a circular form, 
like that of the Arabs (also the Bedouins. Arvieux, iii, 
214) and ancient Greeks (Xenoph. Rep. Laced, xii, 1), 
and we may understand the term blV’Z (Autli. Vers, 
“trench”) to refer to the bulwark of vehicles and 
beasts of burden, or (with Thenius) the circuinvalla- 
tion of the encampment (q. v.). The camps were 
usually guarded by carefully-posted sentinels (Judg. 
vii, 19 ; 1 Macc. xii, 27), and during the action a gar- 
rison remained in them or among the baggage (1 Sam. 

xxx, 24). Vanquished enemies were in geneial treat- 
ed very severely : the captured generals and princes 
were put to death (Josh, x, 24; Judg. vii, 2.5) ; not 
imfrequently they were cut to pieces alive or beheaded 
when dead (2 Macc. xv, 30; 1 Sam. xvii, 54; comp. 
Ilerodot. vii, 77 ; Joseph. HTir, i, 17, 2); all warriors 
were stripped (1 Sam. xxxi, 8; 2 Macc. viii, 27), and 
the living captives either carried into slavery (Numb. 

xxxi, 2G sq. ; Deut. xx, 14 : some mitigation, howev- 
er, being shown in the case of females, Deut. xxi, 11 
sq.) or put to death (Judg. ix, 45), sometimes in a 
cruel manner (2 Sam. xii, 31; 2 Chron. xxiii, 12; 
comp. Judg. viii, 7), cr even mutilated (Judg. i, G sq. ; 
1 Sam. xi, 2), although these cases of extreme severity 
are evidently peculiar and exceptional. As in all an- 
cient warfare, the gentler sex and tender age were not 
always spared amid the ruthless fury of vengeance: 
there are notices of women violated or disembowelled 
of their unborn infants, and of children dashed in 
pieces against stones and the corners of streets (2 
Kings xv, 1G ; comp. 2 Kings viii, 12; Isa. xiii, 1G; 
Amos i, 13 ; Hos. x, 14 ; xiv, 1 ; Nall, iii, 10; 2 Macc. 
v, 13; see Schultens, Monument, histor. Arab. p. 125; 
Waehsniuth, Ifellen. Alterth'nmer , iii, 425); although 
these occur chiefly in connection with heathen coun- 
tries (comp. Josephus, Apian, ii, 29). Captured horses 
were hamstrung (2 Sam. viii, 4; Josh, xi, G, 9). But 


FIGURE 


557 


FIJI ISLANDS 


see Booty. Conquered cities were occasionally burnt 
or demolished (Judg. ix, 45 ; 1 Mace, v, 28, 52 ; x, 84) ; 
at least heathen sanctuaries ’were destroyed (1 Mace, 
v, G8 ; x, 84) or carried away (Isa. xlvi, 1 ; see Gese- 
nius, Comment . in loc.) : the open country itself was 
laid waste (Judg. vi,4; 1 Chron. xx, 1 ; 2 Kings iii, 
19, 25; comp. Judith ii, 17; Ilerodot. i, 17). Some- 
times the conquerors contented themselves with pull- 
ing down the fortifications and carrying away the 
treasures (2 Kings xiv, 14; comp. 1 Kings xiv, 26; 2 
Kings xxiv, 13), demanded hostages (2 Kings xiv, 14), 
and exacted contributions (2 Kings xviii, 14 ; see Isa. 
xxxiii, 18); garrisons were also left in charge (2 Sam. 
viii, 6, 14). But a more absolute war of extermina- 
tion was waged by the Hebrew people against the 
Canaanites on the eisode into Palestine. See Ac- 
cursed. Victory was celebrated with joyful shouts, 
songs, and dances (Judg. v; 1 Sam. xviii, G sq. ; 2 
Sam. xxii ; Judith xvi, 2, 24 ; 1 Maec. iv, 24) ; tro- 
phies were also set up (1 Sam. xv, 12; 2 Sam. viii, 13; 
but see Thenius, ad loc.). As permanent memo, ials 
of good fortune in war, captured weapons or pieces of 
armor were deposited in the sanctuary (1 Sam. xxi, 9 ; 
see xxxi, 10; 2 Kings xi, 10; 1 Chron. x, 10; comp. 
Homer, II. vii, 83; Yirg. sEn. vii, 183 sq. ; Justin, ix, 
7; Lucan, i, 240; Tacit. Annul, i, 59, 2). For mili- 
tary exploits, individuals were honored with presents 
or a promotion (1 Sam. xviii, 25 sq. [comp, Kosellini, 
Mouum. Stor. iv, 74]; 2 Sam. xviii, 11), and David 
had a sort of honorary legion (2 Sam. xxiii, 8). Herod 
the Great once rewarded all his soldiers for a hard- 
earned victory with money (Joseph. Ant. xiv, 15, 4). 
Leaders who fell were honored by the army with mil- 
itary mourning (2 Sam. iii, 31), and their weapons 
were placed in their grave (Ezek. xxxii, 27 ; comp. 
Dougtaei Anal, ut sup.), as in that case the burial 
(with the tumultuary pomp of war, Amos ii, 2) of the 
remains was a cardinal duty of the army and its com- 
mander (l Kings xi, 15). The scrupulousness of the 
later Jews respecting the observance -of the Sabbath 
(q. v.) sometimes gave the enemy an advantage over 
them. See generally Lydii Syntagma de re miitari , 
c. notis Van Til (Dordrei, 1G98; also in Ugolini Thes. 
xxvii). Kausler’s Worterb. der Schlacten aller Yolker 
(vol. i, Ulm, 1825) is of little value for Hebrew ar- 
chaeology. — IViner, i, G80. Compare Battle. On 1 
Cor. ix, 26, see Games. 

Figure stands in the Auth. Vers, as the represent- 
ative of the following words in the original : se'- 

mel, Dent, iv, 16, i. e. an idol, as elsewhere rendered ; 

mikla' ath, 1 Kings vi, 29, a carving , as else- 
where rendered ; but usually, in a metaphorical sense, 
tabnitli ’, Isa. xliv, 13, likeness or pattern, as 
elsewhere rendered ; to which correspond in. the N. T. 
tutcoc, Acts vii, 43; Bom. v, I I, a type; arriTV—ov, 
Heb. ix, 24 , 1 Pet. iii, 21, an antitype ; and 7 rapaf3o\i), 
Heb. ix, 9; xi, 19, a fiaruble, as elsewhere rendered. 
See Tyre ; Paradle. 

Fiji Islands, a group of islands in Polynesia, sit- 
uated 340 miles north-west of the Friendly Islands, be- 
tween lat. 15° 30' and 19° 30', and long. 177° and 178° 
V est. It comprises 225 islands, of which 95 are in- 
habited. The others are occasionally resorted to by 
natives for the purpose of fishing, and taking the biche- 
de-mer , or sea-slug. Two are larj:e islands, stretching 
north-east and south-west nearly throughout the whole 
extent of the group, and are supposed to be each about 
300 miles in circumference. The group comprises 
seven districts, and is under as many principal chiefs. 
All the. minor chiefs on the different islands are more 
or less connected or subject to one of these. The area 
of the whole group is estimated at 8033 sq. miles, and 
the population at from 200,000 to 300,000. The white 
population is about 600, among whom arc 40 Ameri- i 
cans. The people are divided into a number of tribes, | 


independent of and often hostile to each other. In 
each tribe great and marked distinction of rank exist. 
The classes which are readily distinguished are as fol- 
lows : 1. kings ; 2. chiefs ; 3. warriors ; 4. the king’s 
messengers (matanivanua, literally “ eyes of the 
lands”); 5. slaves (kaisi). Mbau, the metropolis and 
imperial city, is situated on a small island, about two 
miles in circumference. It contains nearly one thou- 
sand inhabitants. 

War is a constant occupation ©f the natives, and en- 
grosses most of their time and thought. In 1809 they 
became acquainted with the use of tire-arms. The crew 
of a brig which had been wrecked on the reef off Nai- 
! rai, in order to preserve their lives, joined the Mbau 
people, instructed them in the use of the musket, and 
| assisted them in their wars. Next to war, agriculture 
is the most general occupation of this people. They 
have a great number of esculent fruits and roots, which 
they cultivate in addition to many spontaneous pro- 
ductions of the soil. 

Of the religion of the natives, the following account 
is given in Newcomb, Cyclopaedia of Missions : “The 
pantheon of the Fijians contains many deities. ‘Many 
of the natives,’ says Mr. Hunt, in his Memoirs of Mr. 
Cross, ‘ believe in the existence of a deity called Ove , 
who is considered the maker of all men ; yet different 
i parts of the group ascribe their origin to other gods. 
A certain female deity is said to have created the Vcwa 
people ; and yet if a child is born malformed it is at- 
tributed to an oversight of Ove.’ The god most gen- 
erally known next to Ove is Ndengei. lie is worship- 
! ped in the form of a large serpent, alleged to dwell in 
j a district under the authority of Mbau, which is called 
I Nakauvandra, and is situated near the western end of 
Viti-Lcvu. To this deity they believe that the spirit 
I goes immediately after death lor purification, or to re- 
| eeive sentence. All spirits, however, are not believed 
to be permitted to reach the judgment-seat of Nden- 
j gei; for, upon the road, it is supposed that an enor- 
mous giant, armed with a large axe, stands constant- 
ly on the watch. With this weapon he endeavors to 
wound all who attempt to pass him. Those who are 
wounded dare not present themselves to Ndengei, and 
are obliged to wander about in the mountains. Wheth- 
er the spirit be wounded or not depends not upon the 
conduct in life ; but they ascribe an escape from a 
blow to good luck. They have four classes of gods be- 
sides their malicious deities. The occasions on which 
the priests are required to officiate are usually the fol- 
lowing: to implore good crops of yams and taro; on 
going to battle ; for propitious voyages ; for rain ; for 
storms, to drive boats and ships ashore, in order that 
the natives may plunder them ; and for the destruc- 
tion of their enemies. Their belief in a future state, 
guided by no just notions of religious or moral obliga- 
| tion, is the source of many abhorrent practices, among 
which are the custom of putting their parents to death 
j when they are advanced in years, suicide, the immo- 
lation of wives at the funeral of their husbands, and 
human sacrilices.” 

The islands were discovered in 1643 by Tasman, 
partly rediscovered in 1773 by Cook, visited in 1783 
I and 1792 by Bligh, but accurate information about 
them was for the first time obtained through the expe- 
! ditions of Dumont d’Urville (1827) and Wilkes (1840). 
The history of the Christianization of the Fiji Island! 

| began in 1835. In October of that year, the Bcv. Wm. 

I Cross and D. Cargill, Wesleyan missionaries from Eng- 
land, proceeded from Vavau, one of the Friendly Isl- 
ands, to Lakemba, one of the Fiji Islands. It is but 
a small island, being only about 22 miles in circum- 
ference, and did not contain above 1C00 inhabitants. 
The chief, to whom their object was explained, appear- 
ed friendly, gave them a piece of land on which to live, 
and built a temporary dwelling for each of their fami- 
lies. In a few months the missionaries baptized a 
number of the natives, some of whom had previously 


FIJI ISLANDS 


55S FILIOQUE CONTROVERSY 


obtained a knowledge of Christianity in the Friendly | 
Islands. The chief, being only a tributary chief, ap- 
peared unwilling to take any step in favor of Chris- | 
tianity until he knew the minds of the more powerful 
chiefs of Fiji, and even threatened and persecuted the 
converts. In the course of a few years, the inissiona- I 
ries, with the aid of native teachers and preachers, I 
some of whom came from the Vavau Islands, intro- | 
dueed the Gospel into various other islands of the Fiji 
group besides Lakemba, as Kewa, Vewa, Bua, Nandy, j 
and some others of minor importance. They were fa- 
vorably received by a number of the chiefs and the 
people, in some instances, however, from motives of a , 
secular character. In 1845 and the following year 
there was a great religious movement in the islands 
of Vewa, which extended also to other islands, and re- 
sulted in large additions to the Christian churches. 
Among the most remarkable fruits of the movement 
was the conversion of a chief whose name was Varin, 1 
and who had long acted as the human butcher of Seru, 1 
being called the Napoleon of Fiji. 

In 1854, the chief king of the islands, king Thakom- | 
ban, who occupied several of the smaller islands and 
the eastern coast of Yiti-Levu, together with his tribe, 
embraced Christianity. Since this time the prosperity 
of the islands has rapidly increased, and they are now 
partially civilized. A number of whites have settled 
on the island, and have developed to a considerable ex- 
tent the natural resources of the soil. A great part of 
the territory of Thakom bau is now mapped off into 
cotton and sugar plantations, most of the planters be- 
ing Australians. There is also in the island of Lcvu- 
ka, now' the head-quarters of the king and his seat of 
government, a flourishing little town called Ovalau, 
which lias a hotel and a number of stores, all of them 
kept by whites. There is a British consul also sta- 
tioned in this island, and in 1868 an agent of the Amer- 
ican government ivas sent there from Sidney. About 
the same time that king Thakombau embraced Chris- 
tianity, the crews of two American whalers were mur- 
dered by bis subjects. The American government 
preferred a claim for compensation, and it was ulti- 
mately agreed that $45,000 should be paid by the Fiji- 
ans in reparation for the outrage committed. The 
king, finding it difficult to raise the sum agreed upon, 
offered in 1858 his entire territory to the English gov- 
ernment, by which it was, however, declined. In 1868 
the king’s prime minister, C. II. Hare (an English- 
man), proposed that the American government should 
not only take possession of the three islands which had 
been mortgaged to it, but tliat it should also purchase 
all the other islands of the group. As the government 
of the United States was disinclined to buy the islands, 
an offer was accepted from a company in Melbourne^, 
the. Fiji Trading and Banking Company, which under- 
took to pay the amount due to the U. States, and in re- 
turn received very extensive rights and privileges. 

Christianity is now the predominant religion in the 
Fiji Islands. In the Wesleyan Methodist Calendar for 
186ft, the statistics of the mission are reported as fol- 
lows : circuits, ‘J; chapels, 453; other preaching-places, 
339; missionaries and assistant missionaries, 58; sub- 
ordinate paid ami unpaid agents, 4051 ; members, 
17,836; on trial for membership, 4609 ; scholars in 
schools, 35,617 ; attendants on public worship, 109,088. 
The Christianization of the. whole group makes rapid 
progress. One heathen island was visited in 1867 for 
the lirst time. In the same year the llev. 31 r. Baker, 
a Wesleyan missionary, also a native assistant mis- 
sionary, a native catechist, and six native students, 
were murdered by the people in the interior of Yiti- 
Levu. See, Newcomb, Cyclopaedia oj' Missions, p. 720; 
Brown’s History of Missions, vol. i ; .T. Hunt’s 'Life of 
Mr. Cross; Walter La wry, Missions in Tongg and Fiji; 
G. IF Howe, Life, of John Hunt; T. Williams and James 
Calvert, Fiji and the Fijians (London, 2d edit. 1868, 2 
vols.). (A.J.S.) 


File is the incorrect rendering in the Eng. Bible of 
the expression (petsirah' pim, found only 

in 1 Sam. xiii, 21), which literally signifies a notching 
of the mouth or edge of tools, i. e. bluntness or d illness 
of the agricultural instruments, in consequence of the 
want of smiths to sharpen them by welding out the 
point. 

Filiation (of Son of God). The state of rela- 
tionship in which the Second Person of the Godhead 
stands to the First, as the Son of the Father. See 
Ciiristology; Father; Son of God; Sonsiiit; 
Trinity. 

Filioque Controversy, a historical question as 
to the introduction of the words kui Ik too vioi> (flio- 
que, and from the Son) into the Nicene Creed, to de- 
note the procession of the Holy Ghost from the Son as 
well as from the Father. The Western churches ad- 
mit th q filioque; the Eastern deny it; and this is the 
chief doctrinal point of division between the Greek 
and Latin churches. 

1. The original Niccne Creed (A.D. 325), it is ad- 
mitted on all hands, does not contain th cJUioque. The 
simple statement there made is, “we believe also in 
the Holy Ghost” (jcal tig to ni'ff’/m to <7}ior). See 
Creed, vol. ii, p. 562. The Nicamo-Constantinopoli- 
tan Creed (A.D. 381) adds the phrase to tic tov 7 r«- 
rpbc tuTroptnoptrov, who proceedeth from the Father; 
but says nothing about “the Son” (Creed, vol. ii, p. 
562). The Council of Chalcedon (A.I). 451) made 
certain modifications of the language of the creed [see 
Ciialcedon, vol. ii, p. 196], hut left the passage relat- 
ing to the Holy Ghost unchanged. Nor has any 
change on this point ever been authorized by any gen- 
eral council recognised as such either by the Eastern 
or Western churches. To this day the creed is recited 
and used throughout the East in the original form. 
But the Homan Church, and also the Beformed cliureh- 

1 es, used it with the words “and from the Son.” The 
historical question is, When and how did this interpo- 
lation take place? 

2. It was said under Creed (vol. ii, p. 563) that this 
addition of filioque first appeared in the acts of a synod 
at Braga, in Spain, A.D, 412 (A.D. 411 ; Bingham, 

I Orig. Eccf. x, 4, 16), but the records of that synod are 
I now acknowledged, even by the Latins, to he spurious 
' (Jlefelc, Comiliengescliiehte , ii, 91). In 446, Turibius, 
bishop of Astorga, addressed a letter to Leo the Great 
! complaining of the Priseillianist heresy in Spain. Leo 
ordered a council of all Spain, but the troubles of the 
time (the Goths controlling much of the country) made 
this impossible; and two synods were held, one in To- 
1 ledo, the other in Gallicia (A.D. 447 ; Mansi, vi, 491). 
At Toledo, nineteen bishops were present ; and here, 
and by these nineteen Spanish bishops, the words fili- 
cque were first used of the procession of the Holy 
Ghost in a creed (Ilefele, Concifiengeschichte , ii, 289). 
But the words were not added here to the Nicneno-Con- 
stantinopolitan Creed. This w'as first done at the third 
Council of Toledo (A.D. 589), held by order of king 
Reccaredus, cn the occasion of his abjuring Arianism 
(Ilefele, iii, 44). At this council, and by order of 
Reccaredus, an anathema was declared against all 
who should deny the procession from “the Son also” 
(filioque). It is doubtful, however, whether the rev- 
erend fathers really knew' what was the original form 
of the creed, as they issued a canon »at the same time 
ordering the creed to be recited “according to the form 
of the Oriental churches.” But the General Council 
of Constantinople (A.D. 681) paid no attention to this 
obscure Spanish innovation, and promulgated the 
creed in its original form, as also did the seventh 
General Council at Nicrea, A.D. 787. But the habit 
of using the creed with the filioque had now grown up 
in the West, and was favored by Charlemagne. In 
809 two Western monks from the court of Charle* 
| magne w'ere at Mount Olivet, and there used this new 


FILIOQUE CONTROVERSY 559 FILIOQUE CONTROVERSY 


Western form, for which they were accused of heresy 
by the Easterns. Charlemagne hated the East heart- 
ily, drew up a refutation of the Eastern doctrine, and 
summoned a council at Aix-la-Chapelle (809), which 
sanctioned the jiHoque , and sent deputies to Leo III to 
obtain his confirmation of their decision. Leo refused 
to add the Jilioque to the creed, and even had the creed 
itself, in its original form, engraved on two silver 
shields (in Greek and Latin), which he hung up in St. 
Paul’s Church as a testimony to his unwillingness to 
break his oath of allegiance to the general councils by 
adding to the creed. At the same time, he gave his 
sanction to the doctrine of the filioque as scriptural 
and sound. In the latter part of the century the 
troubles with Photius (q. v.) renewed the controversy 
between East and West; and the Council of Constan- 
tinople (A.D. 879), which was attended by 380 bish- 
ops, anathematized all who add the filioque. No 
pope had as yet formally authorized the addition, and 
yet it was coming into general use in the West, under 
the authority, especially, of pope Nicholas I (Neale, 
Eastern Church , p. 1155 sq. ; Mansi, xv, 255). Final- 
ly, Rome did add the filioque to the creed, but in no 
public or open way ; “no decretal, encyclical or synod- 
ical, announcing her adhesion. The thing was done 
in a corner, and, but for a curious liturgical writer of 
the Western empire, who went to see his sovereign, 
Henry IT, crowned at Rome, A.D. 1014, by pope Ben- 
edict VIII, nobody could have guessed when it occur- 
red. Berno therefore records what he witnessed with 
his own eyes and ears ; and being engaged himself in 
a work on the Mass, he would naturally be very par- 
ticular in his inquiries when he came to Rome, of all 
places, how things were done there. Now his account 
is that ‘up to that time the Romans,’ that is, the 
Church of Rome generally, ‘ had in no u'ise chanted 
the creed after the gospel ; but that the lord emperor 
Henry would not desist till, with the approval of all, 
he had persuaded the apostolic lord Benedict to let it 
be chanted at high mass.’ TIius Reecard inaugura- 
ted the addition, Charlemagne patronized it, and Hen- 
ry II got it adopted by the popes themselves. When 
this had been done, the pontifical oath was changed. 
Later popes, of course, shrank from imprecating a 
judgment upon themselves, according to the terms of 
their oath, in case the}’’ failed to keep the decrees of 
the general councils enumerated in it, ‘ usque ad unnm 
apicem ,’ when they felt they had notoriously failed to 
do so by the creed. That clause was accordingly 
struck out. For the last 1000 years the Roman com- 
munion has been committed to the use of a creed which 
is not that of the Church, but of the Crown ! I do 
not say, therefore , to the use of a creed which is hete- 
rodox. On the theological question involved in it I 
would wish to speak with becoming reverence; but 
thus much is certain, that the addition which forms its 
distinguishing feature was made and had been in use 
many centuries before any pope judged it allowable, 
much less necessary; many centuries before theolo- 
gians in the West had agreed among themselves 
whether the terms ‘mission’ and ‘procession’ were 
distinguishable. Doubtless it has since found able 
defenders; but among them there are scarce two who 
give the same account of it, historically or doctrinally, 
and some of them are neither consistent with each 
other nor with themselves. Others, in arguing for it 
against the Easterns, have grievously misstated facts, 
and numberless passages have been adduced in sup- 
port of it from the fathers, either wholly spurious or 
interpolated. I know of no parallel to it in this re- 
spect in any religious controversy before or since. 
If the Athanasian Creed was not expressly coined for 
this controversy, it was employed in this controversy 
first as a polemical weapon” (Ffoulkes, Letter to Arch- 
bishop Manning, London, 1868). 

For the renewal of the question, with a view to 
union between the Greeks and Latins at the Council 


I of Florence, see Florence. The great English di- 
vines, Pearson and Waterland, while adhering to the 
I doctrine of the West, condemn the interpolation of the 
1 creed. So Pearson remarks : “ Thus did the Oriental 
Church accuse the Occidental for addin g filioque to the 
creed, contrary to a general council, which had pro- 
hibited all additions, and that without the least pre- 
tence of the authority of another council ; and so the 
schism between the Latin and the Greek Church be- 
gan and was continued, never to be ended until those 
words, Kcil Ik rov vi or, or filioque, are taken out of the 
creed” ( Exposition of the Creed , art. viii, Oxford, 1820, 
ii, 394). 

The commissioners for a review of the English 
Prayer-book, 1689, expressed in a note their opinion 
that something should be done to satisfy the Greek 
Church. At a later period the non-juring prelates 
made proposals to the Greeks, stating that in the 
j clause filioque nothing more is meant than “from the 
Father by the Son;” to which the Greek patriarch and 
Synod of Constantinople replied (April 12, 1718): 
j “We receive no other rule or creed than that which 
j was set forth by the first and second holy General 
Council, in which it was decreed that the Iloly Ghost 
proceeds ‘from the Father.’ Therefore ice receive none 
who add the least syl’able (and the most perfect word 
would fall far short), either by way of insertion, com- 
mentary, or explication to this holy creed, or who take 
anything from it. For the holy fathers at that time 
anathematize all such as shall either take from or add 
to it any word or syllable. If any one has formerly 
inserted any word, let it be struck out, and let the creed 
be unaltered as it was at first written, and is to this 
day, after so many years, read and believed by us. 
Now, concerning this point, we thus believe that there 
is a twofold processi n of the Holy Spirit : the one nat- 
ural, eternal, and before time, according to which the 
i Ilolv Spirit proceeds from the Father c done ; and of 
which it is both written in the creed, and the Lord has 
j said, ‘the Comforter, whom I will send unto yon from 
the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceed- 
etii from the Father’ (John xv, 26). The other 
procession is temporal and deputatvee, according to 
, which the Holy Spirit is externally sent forth, de- 
rived, proceeds, and flows from both the Father and 
the Son for the sanctification of the creature. As to 
his temporal and outward procession, we agree that he 
proceeds, comes, or is sent by t lie Son, or through the 
Son's mediation, and from the Son, in this sense of an 
outward procession, for the sanctification of the crea- 
ture. But this 7 rpo£<Ti£, or mission, we do not call pro- 
cession, lest we should be as unhappy as the Papists, 
who, because of the limited dialect of the Latin lan- 
guage, which is unable to express the 7rpo£<nc, or mis- 
sion, by one word, and the iKiraptvme, or procession, by 
another, have called them both processions, which af- 
terwards grew into error, and made them take the 
eternal procession for that 7rput<Jig which was in time ” 
( Amer . Quart. Church Rev. April, 1868, p. 93). 

The historical question is very thoroughly discussed 
by the Rev. E. S. Ffoulkes (a convert from the Angli- 
can to the Roman Church) in several recent works of 
his, especially in A Historical Account of the Addition 
of the Words Filioque to the Creed (Lond. 1867). Mr. 
Ffoulkes states that he has no objection to the doctrine 
; of the double procession in the abstract, but he objects 
to its “embodiment in the creed in a word of four syl- 
lables, foisted in without authority, retained there with- 
out authority, in a place that was never designed for 
it, in a proposition set apart for the declaration of 
another truth” (p. 31). Moreover, he objects to the 
clause because it binds to the acceptance of a proposi- 
tion which has two meanings; “the sense in which 
the Holy Ghost is said to proceed from the Son not be- 
ing in every way coextensive with the. sense in which he 
is said to proceed from the Father.” And he express- 
I es his conviction that this clause has a good deal to do 


FILIOQUE CONTROVERSY 560 


FILLAN 


■with the Soeinianism and Unitarianism so long rife in 
the West. Mr. Ffoulkes notices that in the East, 
ay here the flioque is not adopted, “there is positively 
no such thing known as l T nit arianism among baptized 
Christians;” and it happened to himself once to meet 
’with this reply from a literary friend with whom he 
had been discussing the clause — lk I find my escape 
from it in Unitarianism.” 

3. For the theological question involved, see Holy 
Ghost, Procession. Suffice it here to say, that while 
the Latins arc inexcusable, according to their own 
canon law, for their addition of the Jilioque to the creed, 
the}' are still correct as to the doctrine. Their deeper 
anthropological investigations naturally developed the 
doctrine of the mission of the Holy Ghost by the Son. 
Palmer ( Dissertations on Subjects relating to the Eastern 
Communion, Lond. 1853, Svo, p. 103 sq.) gives the fol- 
lowing summary of the controversy : “ I. That when 
the expression of the Holy Ghost proceeding ‘also from 
the Son’ was first noticed and objected against by the 
Greeks, the Latins explained it aw r ay or dissembled it, 
instead of openly insisting on it as truth. Again, II. 
That when, at length, they had all received it them- 
selves, t lie Latins attempted to force it into the creed, 
and to impose it on the Church at large by overbear- 
ing violence, not l>v an oecumenical council. Again, 
III. That in seeking to impose it upon the Easterns, 
the Latins generally have rested it upon manifestly 
false grounds, as upon the ground of unbroken and ex- 
plicit tradition. Again, IV. That a vast multitude of 
passages, formerly alleged by the Latins, both from 
Greek and Latin fathers, have been proved either to 
be interpolations altogether, or to have been corrupt- 
ed. Lastly, V. That some of the texts most insisted 
on by the Latins at the Council of Florence, and shown 
aftenvards, by Zoernikaft', to have been corrupted, have, 
since Zcernik <ff wrote, been surrendered, even by Lat- 
in editors; so that the Greek cause, as respects the. 
critical examination of passages, has gained materially 
in strength since the Council of Florence. But to re- 
ject a doctrine not revealed in Scripture, nor handed 
down by unbroken tradition from the beginning, but 
‘dug out’ or developed by a part of the Church in later 
ages, and violently thrust upon the rest on false 
grounds, can never he heresy. If, indeed, it w'ere con- 
fessed to be a novelty and a development, and suffi- 
ciently shown to be, notwithstanding, a legitimate and 
necessary development, there might be a greater re- 
sponsibility in rejecting it. On the other side, very 
many of the Greeks assert, not only that the Latin doc- 
trine is false in itself, but also that it is a heresy, and 
that the Latins are heretics for maintaining it. But 
against this view it is fair to object, 1. That those he- 
retical consequences which seem to flow' from the asser- 
tion of the procession from the Son as well as from 
the Father, and on account of which the doctrine it- 
self is said to be heresy, are clearly rejected and con- 
demned as heresies by the Latins, no less than by the 
Greeks ; which would seem to reduce the Latin error, 
if it he an error, to a mere misconception and misuse 
cf words. II. That all heresies spring from evil mo- 
tives ; but the motive which prompted the assertion 
of this doctrine is commonly admitted, even by the 
Greeks, to have been good, namely, the desire to main- 
tain, against the Arians and other heretics, the co- 
cquality of the Son with the Father. 111. That the 
Greeks have repeatedly and all along offered to unite 
and communicate with the Latins, winking at all oth- 
er faults if only the form of the creed were restored, 
which they could not have done if the doctrine of the 
procession from the Son had been held to be heresy in 
itsedf. IV. That until not only some or many passages, 
but all those passages in St. Augustine and other Lat- 
in fathers which assert the procession from the Son, 
have been shown to be corrupt or interpolated, or, in 
sense, to mean no more than they w'ere stated to mean 
in the explanation given at Borne to Maximus the 


martyr in the 7th century, the Latins, even if they be 
in error, cannot be called heretics for adhering to a 
doctrine seemingly taught and bequeathed to them by 
great saints, who are venerated as such by the Eastern 
Church, no less than by their own. ‘ We conclude, 
then, that so long as the u FHioque" is not interpolated 
into the creed without the consent of a council, the 
question of the doctrine in itself is still open and pend- 
ing; and that neither are the Greeks heretics if they 
deny it, nor the Latins if they assert it, so long as they 
both desire that the subject may be fairly and relig- 
iously decided by ail cecumenical council.’ ” 

Literature. — Besides the w'orks already mentioned, 
see J. G.Waleh, Hist. Cont. Crecc. Latiuorumque (Jen. 
1751, Svo); J. G. Voss, De Tiilus Symbolis, diss. iii. ; 
Neale, Eastern Church, Introduct. ; Waterland, Works 
(Oxford, 1843), iii, 201, 437 ; Pearson, On the Creed, 
art. viii ; Ilagenbach, History of Doctrines , § 1G9; Ne> 
ander, Church History , Torrey’s transl., iii, 234, 553 sq. ; 
Schaff, Hist, of the Christian Church, § 131 ; Gieseler, 
Church Hist. § 13, 41 ; Hist, of the Council of Florence , 
transl. by Popoff and J. M. Neale (Lond. 1 SGI, 12mo); 
Neale, ) 'oices from the East (London, 1850), p. GO sq. ; 
Harvey, flistomj of the Creeds , p. 452 sq. ; Hardwick, 
Middle Aye, p. Gl, n. 4 ; Brow'ne, Expedition of the Ar l 
ticks, p. 114 sq. ; Procter, On Common Prayer, p. 234 ; 
Heurtley, JIarmonia Symbolica , p. 121 ; Christian Re- 
membrancer, July, 1853, p. GO sq. ; l’foulkes, Christen- 
dom's Divisions, i. 50 sq. ; ii, G7, 551 sq. ; Westminster 
Rev. Jan. 18G8, p. Ill ; American Quarterly Church Re- 
view, April, 1SG8, art. v. See Florence, Council of ; 
Greek Church ; Holy Ghost; Procession. 

Fill an, St. “Two Scoto-Irish saints of the name 
of Fillan appear in the Church calendars, and have 
left their mark-on the topography of Scotland and Ire- 
land. (1.) St. Fillan, or Faolan, surnamed the Lep- 
er, had his yearly festival on the 20th of June, llis 
chief church in Scotland w r as at the east end of Loch 
Erne, in Perthshire, where ‘ St. Fillan’s Well’ was long 
believed to have supernatural powers of healing. A 
j seat in the rock of Dnnfiilan still keeps the name of 
: ‘ St. Fillan’s Chair;’ and two cavities beside it are said 
to have been hollowed by St. Lilian's knees in prayer. 
His Irish church is at liallyheyland (anciently called 
Killhelan or Kill Faclain), in the barony of Cullenagh, 
in Queen’s County. (2.) St. Fillan, the. abbot, the 
son of St. Kentigerna of Incheaileoch, in Loch Lomond, 

; lived in the 8th century, and had his yearly festival on 
the 7th or 9th of January. His church in Ireland was 
at Guam Maoscna,in Fartullach.in the county of West- 
meath. Ilis chief church in Scotland was in Perth- 
shire, in the upper part of Glendochart, which takes 
from him the name of Strathfillan. Here a w’dl-en- 
dowed priory, dedicated in his honor, was repaired or 
rebuilt in the beginning of the 14th century. King 
Bobert Bruce made a grant of money to the work, in 
i gratitude, probably, for the miraculous encouragement 
which he was said to have received on the eve of Ban- 
nockburn from a relic of the saint — one of his arm-bones 
enclosed in a silver case. Another relic of St. Fillan’s 
— the silver head of his crosier or pastoral staff— has 
been preserved to onrtime. It is called the ‘ Coyger- 
I ach’ or ‘Quigrich,’ and appears in record as early as 
the year 1428, when it w as in the hereditary keeping 
of*a family named Jore or Dew'ar, who were believed 
to have been its keepers from the time of king Bobert 
Bruce. They had half a boll of meal yearly from ev- 
ery parishioner of Glendochart who held a merk land, 
and smaller quantities from smaller tenants ; and they 
were bound, in return, to follow' the stolen cattle of the 
parishioners wherever their traces could be found w ith- 
in the realm of Scotland. The Quigrich, besides its 
virtues in the detection of theft, was venerated also for 
its miraculous powers of healing. In 1487, the rigid 
of keeping it was confirmed to Malice Doirc or Dewar 
by king James III in a charter, which was presented 
for registration among the public records of Scotland 


FILLET 


561 


FINING-POT 


eo lately as the year 1734. Sixty years later, the 
Quigrich still commanded reverence ; but its healing 
virtues were now only tried on cattle, and its once op- 
ulent keepers had fallen to the rank of farm-laborers. 
It was publicly exhibited in Edinburgh in the year 
1818, before being carried to Canada, where it now is, 
in the hands of a descendant of its old custodians, a 
farmer named Alexander Dewar. He puts such a 
value on the relic that he has hitherto refused to part 
with it for less than £400 sterling, or 1000 acres of 
Canadian land. It has been recently figured and de- 
scribed by Dr. Daniel Wilson in a paper in the Cana- 
dian Journal, No. xxiv, reprinted in a pamphlet, with 
the title of The Quigrich , or Crosier of St. Fillan (To- 
ronto, 1859) ; and in the Proceedings of the Society of 
Antiquaries of Scotland , vol. iii, pt. ii, p. 233, plate xxvi 
(Edinb. 1861). A linn in the river Fillan or Dochart, 
in Strathfillan, was long believed to work wonderful 
cures on insane persons, who were immersed in the 
stream at sunset, and left bound hand and foot till sun- 
rise in the ruins of the neighboring church of St. Fil- 
lan. A hand-bell, which bore the name of St. Fillan, 
was also believed to work miracles” (Chambers, Ency- 
clopcedia , s. v. 

Fillet is an erroneous translation in the A. V. of 
two Ileb. words : cliashukim ' , joinings (comp. 

Exoil. xxxviii, 17, 28 ; xxvii, 17), the poles or rods 
which served to join together the tops of the columns 
around the court of the tabernacle (q. v.), and from 
which the curtains were suspended (Exod. xxvii, 10, 
11 ; xxxvi, 38 ; xxxviii, 10, 11, 12, 17,19). w^n, chut , 
a thread (as elsewhere rendered), a measuring-line 12 
cubits long for the circumference of the pillars of cop- 
per in Solomon’s Temple (Jer. Iii, 21). See Column; 
Garland, 



Fillet, a small flat face or band in classical archi- 
tecture, used to separate mouldings ; in Gothic ar- 
chitecture, a fiat band on a curved moulding, used 
to decorate a shaft on a 
larger moulding. When 
on the front of a larg 
moulding, it is called its 
keel ; on the sides, it is 
called a wing. In the 
cut, a a a are examples 
i-mets. of fillets. 

Fill (“■’230, sennppir', of uncertain etymol.), the 
fin of a fish (q. v.), a distinctive mark of such as might 
be eaten under the Mosaic law (Lev. xi, 9, 10, 12; 
Dent, xiv, 9, 10). Sec Clean. 

Final Perseverance. See Perseverance. 

Fine or mulct for damages (q. v.). In some in- 
stances, by the Mosaic law, the 'amount of a fine, or 
of an indemnification that was to be made, was deter- 
mined by the person who had been injured; in other 
instances it was fixed by the judge, and in others was 
defined by the law (Exod. xxi, 19-36; Dent, xxii, 19, 
29). Twofold, fourfold, and even fivefold restitution 
of tilings stolen, and restitution of property unjustly 
retained, with twenty per cent, over and above, was 
required. Thus, if a man killed a beast, he was to 
make it good, beast for beast. This ordinance, ob- 
serves Michaelis {Laws of J Loses, art. 160), appears 
only incidentally in Lev. xxiv, 18, among criminal 
laws. If an ox pushed or gored another man’s servant 
to death, his owner was bound to pay for the servant 
thirty shekels of silver (Exod. xxi, 32). In the case 
of one man’s ox pushing or goring another’s to death, 
it would have been a very intricate point to ascertain 
which of the two had been to blame for the quarrel, 
and therefore both owners were obliged to bear the 
loss. The living ox was sold, and the price, together 
with the dead one, equally divided between them 
(Exod. xxi, 35). If, however, the ox had previously 
been notorious for pushing, and the owner had not 
III — N N 


taken care to confine him, this made a difference ; for 
then, to the man whose ox had been pushed, lie was 
obliged to give another, and the dead ox he got him- 
self (Exod. xxi, 36). If a man dug a pit and did not 
cover it, or let an old pit belonging to him remain 
open, and another man’s beast fell into it, the owner 
of the pit was obliged to pay for the beast, and had it 
for the payment (Exod. xxi, 33, 34). "When a fire 
was kindled in the fields, and did any damage, he who 
kindled it was obliged to make the damage good (Exod. 
xxii, 6). See Punishment. 

Finer (Cj’nbs, tsoreph','), a gold and silver worker 
(Prov. xxv, 4). See Refiner. In Judg. xvii, 4, our 
version renders the word “founder;” in Isa. xli, 7, 
“goldsmith.” It refers especially to the melting of 
fine metal. See Furnace. The Egyptians carried 
the working of metals to a very extraordinary de- 
gree of perfection, as their various articles of jewellery 
preserved in our museums evince; and there is no 
doubt the Hebrews derived their knowledge of these 
arts from this source, though there is at the same time 
reference to their being known before the Flood (Gen. 
xiv, 19-22). See Metal. 

Finger (“SISX, etsba , ddicruX og), besides its ordi- 
nary meaning, is used in Scripture to denote the spe- 
cial and immediate agency of any one. Sec Arm. 
The Egyptian magicians, terrified by the numerous 
plagues inflicted upon their country, at length said, 
“This is the finger of God,” i. e. this is done by the 
power of God himself (Exod. viii, 19). Moses gave 
the tables of the law written by the huger (personal 
direction) of God to the Hebrews (Exod. xxxi, 18). 
The heavens are said to be the work of God’s fingers, 
i. e. his power (Psa. viii, 3). Christ cast out devils 
with the finger or power of God (Luke xi, 20). “To 
put forth the finger” is a bantering, insulting gesture 
(Isa. 1 viii, 9). Some take this for a menacing gesture, 
as Nicanor stretched out his hand against the Temple, 
threatening to burn it (2 Macc. xiv, 33). “Four fin- 
gers thick” occurs as a measure in Jcr. Iii, 21. See 
Ring. 

Finial, the cluster of foliage that is frequently 
used to ornament the top of pinnacles, canopies, pedi- 
ments, etc., in Gothic architecture. The term is also 
often used as synonymous with the pinnacle of a spire, 
roof, or canopy. (G. F. C.) 



Cheshire; 5, Augsburg. 

Fining-pot (r.'HIS'C, matsreph '), a crucible or melt- 
ing-pot (Prov. xvii, 3; xxvii, 21). See Metallur- 
gy. The use of these for reducing gold was familiar 
to the ancient Egyptians, “ Much cannot, of course, 
be expected from the objects found in the excavated 


FINLAND 


562 


FINLEY 



tombs to illustrate the means employed in smelting 
the ore, or to disclose any of the secrets they possessed 
in metallurgy; and little is given in the paintings be- 
yond the use of the blow-pipe, the forceps, and the 
mode of concentrating beat by raising cheeks of metal 
round three sides of the fire in which the crucibles were 
placed. See Furnace. Of the latter, indeed, there 
is no indication in 
these subjects, unless 
it be in the accompa- 
nying woodcut ; but 
their use is readily 
suggested, and some 
which have been found 
_ in Egypt arc pre- 

Furuaue — -An Egyptian Dknnng the served in the museum * 
Fire for melting Gold (Wilkinson). 0 f Berlin. They are 

nearly five inches in diameter at the mouth, and about 
the same in depth, and present the ordinary form and 
appearance of those used at the present day” (Wilkin- 
son, Anc. Eg. abridgm. ii, 138). See Handicraft. 

Finland, when first mentioned in history, was in- 
habited by savage tribes belonging to the Finnish na- 
tions, which by piracy and frequent inroads became 
especially formidable to the Swedes. The latter sub- 
jugated with difficulty and only for a short time the 
coast of Finland, while the republic of Novgorod ex- 
tended its rule over the southern branches of the Finns. 
The frequent robberies of the pagan Suomi induced 
king Eric of Sweden to conquer them, and compel 
them to adopt Christianity. Accompanied by bishop 
Henry, of Upsala, an Englishman, he landed in 1157 
on the south-western coast, and at first met with but 
little resistance. The first church was built at Ren- 
damecki, near the town of Abo, the foundation of 
which had likewise been laid by Eric. When Eric re- 
turned to Sweden, bishop Henry remained in the coun- 
try, but the progress of Christianity was very slow, as 
the Finns had yielded only to compulsion ; the mis- 
sionaries had a very imperfect knowledge of the lan- 
guage, and the poverty of the language presented the 
greatest obstacles to an adequate designation of the 
new Christian ideas. While outwardly professing 
Christianity, most of the converts remained secretly 
addicted to their old pagan ideas, or at least mixed up 
Christian doctrines with pagan mythology. Bishop 
Henry baptized a large number, established an epis- 
copal see at Rendamecki, and finally lost his life 
(1160) in consequence of his zeal in enforcing Church 
discipline. After the complete triumph of Christiani- 
ty, the Finns venerated him as their apostle and patron 
saint. He was commemorated on the 10th of January 
and the 18th of June; his picture, exhibiting his full 
episcopal ornament, with an axe by his side and the 
murderer at his feet, was hung up in every church, 
and many miracles were ascribed to his relics (sec 
Henry, apostle of the Finns). Ilis successor, Ru- 
dolph us, was carried off by the Courlanders and kill- 
ed. The progress of Christianity was considerably 
delayed by the opposition of the Russians to the ad- 
vance of the Swecles, on whom the existence of the 
feeble Christian Church was wholly dependent. In 
1198, Abo was burned by the Russians, and the fourth 
bishop, also an Englishman, had to seek a refuge upon 
the island of Gothland. In 1249, the brother of the 
king of Sweden, Birger Magmisson, the first yarl of 
the kingdom, landed on the southern coast of Astcr- 
botlinia, routed the tribe of the Tavasti, established 
the fortress of Tavasteborg, subsequently called Ta- 
vastehns, built several churches, and compelled the 
inhabitants to accept Christianity and to pay taxes to 
the bishop. Those taxes the fifth bishop, Iiero, of his 
own accord, ceded to the king. Another great Swed- 
ish expedition was undertaken in 1293 by Thorkel 
Knutson, the guardian of the minor king, Birger II. 
The pope not only sanctioned this expedition, but 
granted to the knights and warriors who took part in 


it the same indulgences as to the Crusaders. Thorkel 
landed with a large fleet, overpowered the inhabitants, 
and established the fortress of Wiborg. Bishop Peter, 
of Westeras, announced Christianity to the tribes 
which were still pagans, and the Swedish arms left to 
the natives only the choice between Christianity and 
slavery. Tims Christianity was gradually forced upon 
the whole nation, with the exception of a few remote 
districts where paganism continued to maintain itself. 
Though planted and spread by force, Christianity 
finally rooted itself in the minds of the people by 
means cf schools and churches. The episcopal see at 
Abo attained considerable celebrity. The number of 
churches was largely increased, the cathedral school 
of Abo was numerously attended, and gradual 1}' six 
monasteries were established. The Reformation met 
in Finland with comparatively little resistance, and 
soon the Lutheran Church superseded Roman Cathol- 
icism altogether. In consequence of the wars between 
Sweden and Russia in the 18th and the beginning of 
the 19th centuries, Finland was lost to Sweden and 
gained by the emperor of Russia. In 1721, at the 
peace of Nystadt, Russia received the towns of AAlborg 
and Key holm ; in 1743, at the peace of Abo, a terri- 
tory of about 4800 square miles, with the fortresses of 
Nvslott, Frederiksham, and Savolax; and in 1809, at 
the peace of Frederiksham, the whole of Finland. 
Emperor Alexander I reunited AATborg, which for 
some time had constituted a Russian province, with 
Finland, which retains its old Constitution, its Swedish 
laws, and Lutheran religion. Finland is, in point of 
administration, wholly separated from Russia Proper; 
the highest authority is the imperial senate for Fin- 
land, consisting of 1G natives, under the presidency of 
a governor general. The diet, as formerly in Sweden, 
consists of four estates, nobility, clergy, burghers, and 
peasants. 

The population of Finland in 18G5 amounted to 
1,840,957, of whom 41,7G0 were connected with the 
Greek Church, which has 17 churches and 2 monas- 
teries. The Roman Catholics have a church in A\ r i- 
borg and in Helsingfors. Nearly the whole remainder, 
a population of about 1,800,000, belongs to the Luther- 
an Church. The organization of the Lutheran Church 
of Finland is in every respect similar to that of the 
Lutheran Church of Sweden. Liturgies, hymn-book, 
catechism, and other Church hooks, are substantially 
the same as in Sweden. Hie Church has one arch- 
bishopric, of Abo (the archbishop resides at Helsing- 
fors), and two bishoprics, of Borgio and Kuopio, the 
latter of recent origin. The number of parishes in 
18G7 was 214. Host of the congi egations have, be- 
sides the pastor, a chaplain, also a church council. 
The churches are generally well attended. In most 
of the churches, especially in the country, the ser- 
mons are preached in the Finnish language; in others, 
both Finnish and Swedish are used ; and in some, 
Swedish exclusively. The highest literary institution 
is the University of Helsingfors (until 1847 at Abo). 
It has among the faculties one of Lutheran theology, 
about 45 professors, and GOO students. There is also 
at Helsingfors a theological seminary. Finland has 
G g}'mnasia, 13 secondary and 33 primary schools, 
3 female institutions, and a number of schools for 
specbil purposes. At the higher institutions instruc- 
tion is generally given in Swedish ; but the use of the 
Finnish language is advancing at the expense of the 
Swedish, and this movement is greatly encouraged by 
the Russian government. An Evangelical Society 
was established in 1817 ; there are also several Bible 
Societies. — AVetzer u. AVelte, Kirchen-Leocikon, iv, 70; 
AViggers, Kirchl. Statist'll:, ii, 423; Rtilis, Filmland u. 
seine Beieohner (Lcipz. 1808). (A. J. S.) 

Finley, James Bradley, one of the most dis- 
tinguished and useful pioneers of Methodism in Ohio, 
was the son of the Rev. R.AV. Finley, and was born 
in North Carolina, July 1, 1781. He received a good 


FINLEY 


563 


FINNAN 


education from his father. In 1801 he married, and 
settled in what is now Highland Count}', Ohio. In 
1802, while returning from a camp-meeting in Ken- 
tuckv, he was converted. He at once felt called to 
preach, but refused to obey, lost all religion, and lived 
for seven years a worse sinner than before. At the 
end of this time he was again converted, and imme- 
diately began to persuade his wicked neighbors to seek 
God, and soon formed a large society. In 1809 he 
entered the Western Conference, travelled with great 
success for six years, and was in 1816-21 presiding 
elder on Steubenville, Ohio, and Lebanon Districts. 
Through the labors of John Stewart, the colored 
preacher, and Between-the-Logs, a converted chief, a 
great revival had begun among the Wyandotte Indians 
at Upper Sandusky, Thither Finley was sent in 1821, 
and spent six years of labor, suffering, and glorious 
success among the Indians. After his removal he still 
had supervision of the mission, and from 1829 to 1845 
served the Church as preacher or presiding elder in 
the principal cities of Southern Ohio. He served as 
chaplain of the Ohio Penitentiary, at Columbus, Loin 
1845 to 1849, when his health failed, and he was made 
superannuate. lie was afterward appointed to Clin- 
ton Street, Cincinnati (from him named Finley Chap- 
el). His last appointment was that of Conference 
missionary. He was thus forty-five years a laborious 
and successful minister. He was eight times a delegate 
to the General Conference. He died Sept. 6, 1856, 
in Cincinnati. Both in character and labors he was 
an extraordinary man. His zeal, his indomitable 
courage, which the Indian chiefs both respected and 
feared, his sympathy and his integrity, gave him a 
dominant control over men of all professions and con- 
ditions. His eloquence in the pulpit, especially at 
camp-meetings, often brought down thousands almost 
at a stroke, and wherever he went conversions were 
multiplied. He published an Autobiography (Cincinna- 
ti, 1854, 12mo): — Wyandotte Mission (12mo) : — Sketch- 
es of Western Methodism (Cincinnati, 1857, 12mo): — 
Life among the Indians (Cincinnati, 1857, 12mo): — Me- 
morials of Prison Life (Cincinnati, I860, 12mo). — Min- 
utes of Conferences, vi,441 ; Autobiography of J. /». Fin- 
ley (Cincinnati, 1854); Stevens, History of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church , vol. iv. 

Finley, John P., a Methodist Episcopal minister 
and professor of languages in Augusta College, Ken- 
tucky, was born in South Carolina in June, 1788, and, 
though early removed by his parents to the West, 
“through their exertions and his own he obtained a 
classical education.” From 1810 to 1822 he taught in 
schools and academics in Ohio, and preached also 
with zeal and success. In 1822 he was elected to the 
chair of languages in Augusta College, and the same 
year entered the itinerancy, and in both labored zeal- 
ously and usefully until his death in May, 1825. — J Un- 
ities of Conferences , i, 505. (G. L. T.) 

Finley, Robert, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
and president of the University of Georgia, was born 
at Princeton, N. J., in 1772, and graduated at Prince- 
ton College in 1787. From 1793 to 1795 he was a tu- 
tor in the college, and a trustee from 1807 to 1817, 
when he resigned. He was the minister of a Presby- 
terian church at Baskingridge, N. J., from June, 1797, 
till 1817. In 1816 he became greatly interested in the 
welfare of the free blacks, and formed a plan of send- 
ing them to Africa. He was thus the founder of the 
American Colonization Society. He was chosen pres- 
ident of Athens College, Ga., and went there in 1817, 
but died Oct. 3d of that vear. — Sprague, Annals, iv, 
126. 

Finley, Robert Smith, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Basking Ridge, New Jersey, May 9, 1804, 
and was educated at Princeton College. He studied 
law, and was admitted to the bar at Cincinnati; but 
in 1833 he determined to enter the ministry, and spent 


[ a short time at Lane Seminary. In 1835 he was li- 
censed by the Presbytery of Mississippi, and was or- 
| dained in 1842. His first charge was Pine Grove, La.; 

1 and for some time he was missionary among the slaves 
near Natchez. For six years he edited, at St. Louis, 
the Liberian Advocate, devoted to African colonization, 
iu which cause lie was greatly interested through life. 
In 1850 he became pastor of the Presbyterian church 
at Metuehin, N. J., and in 1858 principal of the Pres- 
byterian Female Institute at Talladega, Ala., where lie 
died J uly 2, 18G0. — Wilson, Presbyterian Almanac, 1861* 

| p. 85. 

Finley, Robert W., a distinguished Methodist 
Episcopal minister, was horn in Bucks County, Pa., 
June 9, 1750. lie was converted at seventeen. Soon af- 
ter he entered Princeton College, N. J., where he spent 
seven years in general and theological studies. In 
1774 he was licensed to preach in the Presbyterian 
Church, and was sent as a missionary to Georgia and 
the Carolinas. Here he was a patriot as well as a 
preacher, and was often with general Marion in his 
expeditions, and incurred much enmity and risk of 
life from the Tories. In 1784 he went to Hampshire 
County, then in New Virginia, where lie preached two 
years. Iu 1788 he emigrated to Kentucky, and event- 
ually opened a school for students in divinity, and a 
number of his pupils were distinguished in subsequent 
life. In 1795 he went with general Massie to explore 
the Scioto country, then in the Northwest Territory, 

' and in May, 1796, he settled on the Scioto, below Chil- 
licothe. In 1808 he connected himself with the Meth- 
| odist Church, and in 1811 or 1812 joined the Ohio Con- 
ference as a travelling preacher. For many years lie 
labored with great success, and received hundreds into 
the Church. When almost eighty and superannuated, 
he mounted his horse, with his books and clothes, and 
set off as a missionary to Sant St. Marie, and there 
formed a circuit and appointed a camp-mccting. He 
died at Germantown, Ohio, Dec. 8, 1840. — Minutes of 
Conferences , iii, 239. (G. L. T.) 

Finley, Samuel, D.D., a Presbyterian minister 
and president of New Jersey College, was born in 
County Armagh, Ireland, and came to America in 
1734. On his arrival at Philadelphia he renewed his 
studies preparatory to the ministry, and was licensed 
in 1740. He labored long and successfully in West 
Jersey, in Deerfield, Greenwich, and Cape May, and 
supplied the church in Philadelphia for a time. lie 
was ordained by the Presbytery of New Brunswick in 
1742, and in 1744 he accepted a call from Nottingham, 
Maryland, where he continued for nearly seventeen 
years, and where he kept an academy of great reputa- 
tion. In 17G1 he was called to the presidency of New 
Jersey College, and removed to Princeton, and soon 
after was honored with the degree of D.D. from Glas- 
gow. He died July 17, 1766. He published a sermon 
entitled Christ triumphing and Satan raging, 1741 : — 
A Pefutution of a Sermon on the Doctrine of Convictions, 
1713: — Satan stripped of his angelic Poles, 1743: — A 
charitable Plea for the Speechless, 1747: — A Vindica- 
tion of the preceding, 1748 : — A Sermon — The Curse of 
Meroz, etc., 1757 : — A Sermon on the Death of President 
Davies, 1761. — Sprague, Annals, iii, 96. 

Finnan, an Irish ecclesiastic whom Oswin, king 
of Northumberland, called to the abbacy of Lindis- 
fame, and to superintend the churches in his king- 
dom. The Venerable Bede says, “He was a man of 
tierce and rough nature, hut very successful in minis- 
terial labors. lie baptized Peadn, king of the Middle 
Angles, and sent four priests to instruct his subjects 
in Christianity.” lie also consecrated Ccadmon, who 
afterwards became a very prominent bishop among 
the East Angles, and baptized Sigebert their king, 
together with great numbers of the common people. 
He was very active in promoting the temporal as well 
i as the spiritual interest of the Church. During his 


FINNS 


564 


FIR 


superintendency, Bede says “he erected a church on ' 
the island of Lindisfarne fit for an episcopal see, which, 
nevertheless, he built after the manner of the Scots ! 
[Irish], not of stone, lmt of sawn oak, and covered it 
with thatch” (Eccles. Hist. lib. iii, c. xxv). Years af- 
terwards, when the British clergy took possession of 
these churches in Northumberland, Theodore, arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, required this church to lie re- j 
consecrated, and dedicated to the patronage of St. Be- | 
ter. Finnan, having for ten years superintended the 
abbaev of Lindisfarne and the churches of Northum- 
berland under the simple title of “bishop,” died A.D. 
CGI. He left a treatise entitled Pro Veteri Paschali ! 
Ritu, regarding the Irish and Oriental time of keeping 
Easter as the old and true time, and that of Home as 
of recent date. See Bede’s Eccles. Ilist.; IUust. Men 
of Ireland, vol. i. (D. I).) 

Filins, “geographically the name of the inhab- 
itants of Finland, but in ethnology that of a consider- 
able branch of the Ugrian race, dwelling for the most 
part in Finland, though with some representatives in 
Sweden and Norway as well. The Ugrians have been 
classed among the nations said to have a Mongolian 
origin. I)r. Latham places them among the 4 Taurani- 
an Altaic Mongol hire,’ and divides them into Ugrians 
of the East and Ugrians of the West. The Western 
Ugrians consist of Lapps, Finns, Permians, and other 
nations or tribes in the north and north-west of Rus- 
sia, and of the Magyars in Hungary. The Magyars 
are the most numerous, and next after these come the 
Finns, comprising about 2,000,000 of individuals. All 
the other tribes of Western Ugrians do not together 
comprise so many. The Finns, in common with the 
other Ugrians, are of the Mongolian type. The Finns, 
from having been originally a nomadic race, have for 
many centuries been stationary and civilized. Long 
before the arrival of the German and Slavic nations 
in the north of Europe, the Ugiians, or Ogres (for the 
name, so common in fiction, is really of historic ori- 
gin), possessed it, and were gradually pushed further 
north and east by the new invaders. Both Finns and 
Lapps, there is good reason to believe, originally ex- 
tended much further south than they do at present, 
occupying, perhaps, the whole of Sweden and Norway. 
‘The Finns,’ says Prichard, ‘were in the time of Ta- 
citus as savage as the Lapps; but the former, during 
the. succeeding ages, became so far civilized as to ex- 
change a nomadic life for one of agricultural pursuits, 
while the Lapps have ever continued to be barbarous 
nomades, as well as the Siberian tribes of the same 
race — namely, the Woguls and Ostiaks. The Finns, 
as well as their brethren the. Bcormahs, or Finns of 
the White Sea, had probably undergone this change 
long before the time when they were visited by Otther, 
the guest of Alfred. When the Finns were conquered 
by the Swedes, they had long been a settled people, 
but one of curious, and singular, and isolated charac- 
ter.’ ” — Chambers, Cyclopaedia, s. v. See Finland. 

Fintanus or Filltail, the founder of the monastery 
of Bheinau (q.v.), in the canton of Zurich. lie descend- 
ed from a noble family in the province of Leinster, Ire- 
land. In a war between two chieftains, one chieftain 
killed Fintan’s brother, and, fearing that Fiutan would 
avenge tlie brother’s death, caused him insidiously to 
be carried off by the Normans. Having changed his 
master several times within a few days, Fiutan was 
to be taken to Scotland, but escaped when the vessel 
landed atone of the Oiknev Islands. lie had to spend 
three days on this uninhabited island, after which he 
swam, miraculously supported, to Scotland. lie re- 
mained for two years with a bishop who had studied 
in Ireland; then, in compliance with a voWj he jour- 
neyed, through Gallia, Alemanuia, and Lombardy, to 
Borne. After his return he" fust went to the monas- 
tery of Pfiifters, and from there to Bheinan, where lie 
completed, conjointly with Wolfen, a scion of the 


house of the Welfs, the monastery which the grand- 
father and father of Wolfen had begun. After work- 
ing at Bheinan for five years as a priest, he entered 
the monastery in 851, remained there five years, and 
thereupon became a hermit, leading for 22 years, from 
85G to 878, the }*ear of his death, a life of extreme as- 
ceticism. Thus he came to be venerated as a saint, 
even during his lifetime, throughout the whole region. 
When his friend Wolfen, who in the mean time had 
become abbot of Bheinan, returned from Borne with 
the relics of St. Blasius, Fintan took a portion of them 
to a cell in the Black Forest, which subsequent!}- was 
called St. Blasien. — Herzog, Beal-Encyklop. xix, 491. 
(A. J. S.) 

Fir (the name of an extensive family of coniferous 
evergreens ; see Penny C ydopeedia, s. v. Abies) is the 
uniform rendering in the Auth.Yers. of berosh' 

(from its being cut into planks, Gesenius, TJtes. Heb. p. 
24G), which frequently occurs (2 Sam. vi, 5 ; 1 Kings 

v, 8, 10; vi, 15, 34; ix, 11 ; 2 Kings ix, 23; 2 Ghron. 
ii, 8; iii, 5; Psa. civ, 17 ; Isa. xiv, 8; xxxvii, 24; xli, 
19; lv, 13; lx, 13 ; Ezek. xxvii, 5 ; xxxi, 8; llos. xiv, 
8; Nah. ii, 3; Zech. xi, 2), and r^Z, beroth ' , which 
is said to be only the Aramaean form of the same word 

| (in Cant, i, 17). In most of the passages the terms 
rendered cedar and fir in the Auth.Yers. are mentioned 

; together. Berosh is translated variously in the Sept. 

I 7 rirrg, mvKi], Kvirc'ipioGoc, and (Ezek. xxvii, 5) kdepoc ; 
in Isa. xiv, 8, £v\ a A ifiavov; in the Yulg. chiefly abies, 
cupressus. It was a lofty tree (Isa. lv, 13), growing 
on Lebanon (Isa. xxxvii, 24), and of an ornamental 

I figure (Isa. lx, 13). The passages from which any 

| special account of its use can be derived are, 1. Of mu- 
sical instruments (2 Sam. vi, 5); 2. Of doors (1 Kings 

vi, 34); 3. Of gilded ceilings (2 Cliron. iii, 5) ; 4. Boards 
or decks of ships (Ezek. xxvii, 5), or planks for floor- 
ing (1 Kings vi, 15). Boscmniiller says, “ In most of 
the passages where the Hebrew word occurs, it is b}- 
the oldest Greek and the Syriac translators rendered 
cyp?'e$s." Celsius, on the contrary, is of opinion that 
berosh indicates the cedar of Lebanon, and that erez , 
which is usually considered to have that meaning, is 
the common pine {Pinus sylrestris), apparently because 
lie conceives berosh to he changed from sherbin , the 
Arabic name of pine. .1. E. Fal or, as quoted by Bo- 
sennndler, conjectures that the Hebrew' name berosh 
included three different trees which resemble each oth- 
er, viz. the evergreen cypress, t lie thyine, and the sa- 
vine. The last, or Juniperns sabina, is so like the cy- 

i press that the ancients often called it by that name, 
and the moderns have noticed the resemblance, espe- 
cially as to the leaves. “Hence, even among the 
Greeks, both trees bore the old Eastern names of be- 
rosh. lerotli , brulha , or braihy ” (Bosenmuller. Hot. of 
the Bible , transl. p. 2C0). T he word berosh or beroth is 
slightly varied in the Syriac and Chaldee versions, be- 
ing written be rut ha in the former, and beruth in the 
latter. All these are closely allied to bruta, a ha me 
of the scirine plant, which is the fipdfjv, fipcGvv, and 
fiapctOorg of the Greeks, and which the Arabs have 
converted into burasi and buratu By them it is ap- 
plied to a species of juniper, which they call abhul and 
arus or or«.?. It appears that many of these terms 
must be considered generic rather than specific in the 
modern sense, when so much caie is bestowed on the 
accurate discrimination of one species from another. 
Thus arus , applied by the Arabs to a juniper, indicates 
a pine-tree in Scripture, whether we follow- the com- 
mon acceptation and consider it the cedar, or adopt the 
opinion of Celsius, that the Pinus sylvestris is indicated. 
So burati may have been applied by the. Arabs, etc. 
not only to the savine and other species of juniper, hut 
also to plants, such as the cypress, which resemble 
these. In many of those cases, therefore, where we 
are unable to discover any absolute identity or simi- 
larity of name, we must be guided by the nature of 


FIRE 


565 


FIRE 


the trees, the uses to which the}' were applied, and the 
situations in which they are said to have been found. 
Thus, as we find erez and berosh so constantly associ- 
ated in Scripture, the former may indicate the cedar 
with the wild pine-tree, while the latter may compre- 
hend the juniper and cypress tribe. See Cedar ; Cy- 
press ; Jumper. All these were extensively used 
for architecture, and are at this day found in Lebanon 
(Balfour, Trees of Scripture , p. 11 ; Thenius on 1 Kings 
vi, 34 ; Saalsehi'itz, Jlebr. Arch, i, 280, note 4 ; Miller, 
Gardener s Diet. s. v. Cuprcssus; Stephens, Tkes. Ling. 
Gr. s. v. mvK)]\ Bclon, Obs. c. 110, p. 105; Loudon, 
Arboretum , iv, 2163).— Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. In 
IIos. xiv, 8, the “stone-pine” ( Pinus pineu), which. has 
a cone containing an edible nut, seems to be intended 
(Kitto, Piet. Bi'de, in loc.), although Henderson (Com- 
ment. in loc.) thinks that a fruitless tree is there re- 
ferred to by way of contrast. See T»ree. 

Fire (properly -X, esh, tt up). On fhe origin of fire, 
see Kitto’s Daily Bible Illust. i, 94. The applications 
of fire in Scripture are susceptible of the following 
classification : 

1. Religious. — 1 . That which consumed the burnt sac- 
rifice and the incense-offering, beginning with the sac- 
rifice of Noah (Gen. viii, 20), and continued in the 
ever-burning fire on the altar, first kindled from heav- 
en (Lev. vi, 9, 13; ix, 24), and rekindled at the dedi- 
cation of Solomon’s Temple (2 Chron. vii, 1, 3). See 
Sacrifice. 

“Fire from heaven,” “fire of the Lord,” usually 
denotes lightning in the Old Testament; but, when 
connected with sacrifices, the “fire of the Lord” is of- 
ten to be understood as the fire of the altar, and some- 
times the holocaust itself (Exod. xxix, 18 ; Lev. i, 9; 
ii,3; iii,5,9; Numb, xxviii, C ; lSam.ii > 28: Tsa.xx, 
16 ; Mai. i, 10). See Lightning. 

The perpetual fire on the altar was to be replenish- 
ed with wood every morning (Lev. vi, 12; comp. Isa. 
xxxi, 9). According to the Gemara, it was divided 
into three parts, one for burning the victims, one for 
incense, and one for supply of the other portions (Lev. 
vi, 15; see Belaud, A ntiq. Jlebr. i, 4. 8, p. 26; and ix, 
10, p. 98). Fire for sacred purposes obtained elsewhere 
than from the altar was called “strange fire,” and for 
use of such Nadab and Abihu were punished with death 
by fire from God (Lev. x, 1, 2 ; Numb, iii, 4 ; xxvi, 61). 
See Altar. 

2. Parallel with this application of fire is -to be noted 
the similar use for sacrificial purposes, and the respect 
paid to it, or to the heavenly bodies as symbols of dei- 
ty (see below), which prevailed among so many na- 
tions of antiquity, and of which the traces are not even 
now extinct : e. g. the Sabrean and Magiun systems of 
worship, and their alleged connection with Abraham 
(Spencer, De Leg. Jlebr. ii, 1, 2) ; the occasional relapse 
of the Jews themselves into sun-, or its corrupted form 
of fire-worship (Tsa. xxvii, 9 ; compare Gesenius, s. v. 
“^n, Thesaur. p. 489; see Dent, xvii, 3; Jcr. viii, 2; 
Ezek. viii, 16; Zeph. i, 5; 2 Kings xvii, 16; xxi, 3; 
xxiii, 5, 10, 11, 13 ; comp. Jalin, Bill. Arch. c. vi, § 405, 
408) ; the worship or deification of heavenly bodies or 
of fire, prevailing to some extent, as among the Per- 
sians, so also even in Egypt (Ilerod. iii, 16; see Wil- 
kinson, Anc. Jig. i, 328, abridgm.); the sacred fire of 
the Greeks and Romans (Thucyd. i, 24 ; ii, 15 ; Cicero, 
De Leg. ii, 8, 12 ; Livy, xxviii, 12 ; Dionys. ii, 67 ; Plu- 
tarch, Numa, 9, i, 263, ed. Reiske); the ancient forms 
and usages of worship, differing from each other in 
some important respects, but to some extent similar in 
principle, of Mexico and Peru (Prescott, Mexico, i, 60, 
64; Pern, i, 101); and, lastly, the theory of the so-called 
Kuebres of Persia, and the Parsees of Bombav. (Fra- 
zer, Persia, c. iv, p. 141, 162, 164 ; Sir IL Porter, Trav- 
els. ii, 50, 424 ; Chardin, Voyages, ii, 310; iv, 258 ; viii, 
367 sq. ; Niebuhr, Travels , ii, 36, 37 ; Mandelslo, Trav- 
els, b. i, p. 76; Gibbon, IJist. c. viii, i, 335, ed. Smith ; 


Benj. of Tudela, Early Trav. p. 114, 116; Burckhardt, 
Syria, p. 156.) See Idolatry. On the heathen prac- 
tice of children “passing through the fire,” see Mo- 
loch. 

3. In the case of the spoil taken from the Midian- 
ites, such articles as could bear it were purified by fire 
as well as in the water appointed for the purpose 
(Numb, xxxi, 23). The victims slain for sin-offerings 
were afterwards consumed by fire outside the camp 
(Lev. iv, 12, 21 ; vi, 30; xvi, 27 ; Ileb. xiii, 11). The 
Nazarite who had completed his vow, marked its com- 
pletion by shaving his head and casting the hair into 
the fire on the altar on which the peace-offerings were 
sacrificed (Numb, vi, 18). 

II. Domestic. — Besides for cooking, baking, and 
roasting purposes [see Bread, Food, etc.], fire is often 
required in Palestine for warmth (Jer. xxxvi, 22; 
Mark xiv, 54 ; John x viii, 18 ; see Harmer, Obs. i, 125 ; 
Runnier, p. 79). For this purpose a hearth with a 
chimney is sometimes constructed, on which either 
lighted wood or pans of charcoal are placed (Harmer, 
i, 405). In Persia, a hole made in the floor is some- 
times filled with charcoal, on which a sort of table is 
set covered witli a carpet; and the company, placing 
their feet under the carpet, draw it over themselves 
(Olcarius, Travels, p. 294; Chardin, Voyages, yin, 190). 
Rooms in Egypt are warmed, when necessary, with 
pans of charcoal, as there are no fireplaces except in 
the kitchens (Lane, Mod. Eg. i, 41 ; Eng. in Jig. ii, 11). 
See Coal ; Fuel. 

On the Sabbath, the law forbade any fire to be kin- 
dled even for culinary purposes (Exod. xxxv, 3; 
Numb, xv, 32). As the primary design of this law 
appears to have been to prevent the proper privileges 
of the Sabbath day from being lost to any one through 
the care and time required in cooking victuals (Exod. 
xvi, 23), it is doubted whether the use of fire for 
warmth on the Sabbath day was included in this in- 
terdiction. In practice, it would appear that the fire 
was never lighted or kept up for cooking on the Sab- 
bath day, and that consequently there were no fires 
in the houses during the Sabbaths of the greater part 
of the year; but it may be collected that in winter 
fires for warming apartments were kept lip from the 
previous day. Michaelis is very much mistaken with 
respect to the climate of Palestine in supposing that 
the inhabitants could, without much discomfort, dis- 
pense with fires for warmth during winter (J fosaisekes 
Reckt, iv, 195). To this general prohibition the Jews 
added various refinements ; e. g. that on the eve of the 
Sabbatli no one might read with a light, though pas- 
sages to be read on the Sabbath by children in schools 
might be looked out by the teacher. If a Gentile 
lighted a lamp, a Jew might use it, but not if it had 
been lighted for the use of the Jew. If a festival day 
fell on the Sabbath eve no cooking was to be done 
(Mishna, Shabb. i, 3 ; xvi, 8, vol. ii, p. 4, 56 ; Moed Ka - 
tan, ii, vol. ii, p. 287, ed. Surenbus). The modern Jews, 
although there is no cooking in their bouses, have fires 
on the Sabbath day, which are attended to by a Chris- 
tian servant ; or a charwoman is hired to attend to the 
fires of several houses, which she visits repeatedly 
during the day. See Sabbath. 

III. Statutory Regulation. — The dryness of the land 
in the hot season in Syria of course increases the lia- 
bility to accident from fire (Judg. ix, 15). The law 
therefore ordered that any one kindling a fire which 
caused damage to corn in a field should make restitu- 
tion (Exod. xxii, G ; comp. Judg. xv, 4, 5 ; 2 Sam. xiv, 
30 ; see Mishna, Maccoth , vi, 5, 6 ; vol. iv, 48, Suren- 
hus. ; Burckhardt, Syria, p. 496, 622). This law was 
calculated to teach caution in the use of fire to the 
herdsmen in the fields, who were the parties most 
concerned. And it is to be remembered that the 
herdsmen were generally substantial persons, and had 
their assistant shepherds, for whose imprudence they 
were made responsible. Still no inference is to be drawn 


FIRE 


566 


FIRE-BAPTISM 


from this law with regard to fires breaking out in 
towns, the circumstances being so very different. See 
Damages. 

IV. Penal . — Punishment of death by fire was award- 
ed by the law only in the cases of incest with a moth- 
er-in-law, and of unchastity on the part of a daughter 
of a priest (Lev. xx, 14 ; xxi, 9). In the former ease 
both the parties, in the latter the woman only*, was to 
suffer. This sentence appears to have* been a relaxa- 
tion of the original practice in such cases (Gen. xxxviii, 
24). Among other nations, burning alive appears to [ 
have been no uncommon mode, if not of judicial pun- 
ishment, at least of vengeance upon captives; and in ! 
a modified form was not unknown in war among the 
Jews themselves (2 Sam. xii, ol ; Jer. xxix, 22 ; Dan. 
iii, 20). In certain cases the bodies of executed crim- 
inals and of infamous persons w r ere subsequently burnt 
(Josh, vii, 25; 2 Kings xxiii, 10). See Punishment. 

V. Military . — In time of war towns w'ere often de- 
stroyed l»y fire. This, as a war usage, belongs to all 
times and nations; but among the Hebrews there were 
some particular notions connected with it, as an act of 
strong abhorrence, or of devotement to abiding desola- 
tion. See Accursed. The principal instances his- I 
torically commemorated are the destruction by fire of 
Jericho (Josh, vi, 24); Ai (Josh, viii, 19) ; IIazor(Josh. 
xi, 11); Laish (Judg. xviii, 27); the towns of t lie Bcn- 
jamites (Judg. xx, 48); Ziklag, by the Amalekitcs (1 
Sam. xxx, 1); Jazer, bv Pharaoh (1 Kings ix, 1G); ( 
and the Temple and palaces of Jerusalem by Nebu- 
chadnezzar (2 Kings xxv, 9). Even the war-chariots 
of the Canaanites w ere burnt hv the Israelites (Josh. 

vi, 24; viii, 28; xi, G, 9, 13), probably on the princi- 
ple of precluding the possibility of recovery by the j 
enemy of instruments of strength for which they had 
themselves no use. The frequency with which towns 
were fired in ancient warfare is shown by the very nu- 
merous threats by the prophets that the towns of Is- 
rael should be burned by their foreign enemies. Some 
great towns, not of Israel, are particularly named ; and j 
it would be an interesting task to trace, as far as the 
materials exist, the fulfilment of these prophecies in 
those more marked examples. Among the places thus 
threatened w*e find .Damascus (Isa. xliii, 12, 13), Gaza, 
Tyre, Teman (Amos i, 7, 10, 11). The temples and 
idols of a conquered town or people were very often | 
burnt by the victors (Isa. liii, 12, 13). The Jew's were 
expressly ordered to destroy the idols of the heathen s 
nations, and especially any city of their own relapsed , 
into idolatry (Exod. xxxii, 20 ; 2 Kings x, 2G ; Dent. 

vii, 5 ; xii, 3 ; xiii, 1G). One of the expedients of war 
in sieges was to set fire to the gate of the besieged 
place (Judg. ix, 49, 52). See Siege. 

In battle, torches were often carried by the soldiers, j 
which explains the use of torches in the attack of Gid- 
eon upon the camp of the Midianites (Judg. vii, G). 
This military use of torches was very general among 
ancient nations, and is alluded to by many of their 
writers (Statius, Tlieb. iv, 5, 7 ; Stobauis, Serm. p. 194; j 
Michaelis, in Symbol. Liter. Br emeus. iii, 254). See 
Torch. 

Signal fires on the tops of mountains were .also an- 
ciently common as a telegraphic mode of conveying 
intelligence both in civil and military matters (Judith 
vii, 5). See Deacon. 

VI. Funereal. — Incense was sometimes burnt in 


Mehner, De Deo in igne , Dresd. n. d.) and the instru- 
ment of his power, in the way either of approval or of 
destruction (Exod. xiv, 19; Numb, xi, 1, 3; Judg. 
xiii, 20; 1 Kings xviii, 38; 2 Kings i, 10, 12; ii, 11 ; 
vi, 17 ; comp. Isa. li, G; Ixvi, 15, 24; Joel ii, 30; Mai. 
iii, 2, 3; iv, 1 ; 2 Pet. iii, 10; Dev. xx, 14, 15; see De- 
land, Ant. Sacr. i, 8, p. 2G; Jennings, Jewish Ant. ii, 
1, p. 301; Josephus, Ant. iii, 8, G; viii, 4, 4). Thus 
he appeared in this element at the burning bush and 
on Mount Sinai (Exod. iii, 2; xix, 18). He showed 
himself to Isaiah, Ezekiel, and John in the midst of 
fire (Isa. vi, 4; Ezek. i, 4 ; Dev. i, 14), and it is said 
that he w ill so appear at his second coming (2 Thess. 
i, 8). The people of Israel w r andered through the des- 
ert, guided by the Lord under the form of a pillar of 
fire [see Pillar] (Exod. xiii, 21); and Daniel, relat- 
ing his vision, in w hich he saw' the Ancient of days, 
says, “A fiery stream issued and came forth before 
him’' (vii, 10). God may he compared to fire, not only 
by reason of his glorious brightness, but also on ac- 
count of his anger against sin, which consumes those 
against whom it is kindled, as fire does stubble (Dent, 
xxxii, 22; Isa. x, 17: Ezek. xxi, 3; Ileb. xii, 29). 
Coals of fire proceeding from God’s mouth denote his 
anger (Psa. xviii, 8). His word also is compared to 
fire (Jer. xxiii, 29). Thus, in Jer. v, 14, “Behold, I 
will make mv words in thy mouth fire, and this people 
wood, and it shall devour them.” See Flame. 

2. Ilence the destructive energies of this element 
and the torment which it inflicts rendered it a fit sym- 
bol of (1) w hatever does damage and consumes (Prov. 
xvi, 27; Isa. ix, 18); (2) of severe trials, vexations, 
and misfortunes (Zech. xii, 9; Luke xii, 49 [see the 
dissertations on this text by Seharbau (Ohs. Sacr. p. 
127-14G), Ellrod (Erlang. 1774)] ; 1 Cor. iii, 13, 15 [see 
the dissertations on this text by Lichtenstein (Helinst. 
1771), Georgi (Viteb. 1748)]; 1 Pet. i, 7); (3) of the 
punishments beyond the grave (AI att . v, 22; Mark ix, 
44; Dev. xiv, 10; xxi, 8). See Hell. 

3. Fire or flame is also used in a metaphorical sense 
to express excited feeling and divine inspiration (Psa. 
xxxix, 3; Jer. xx, 9). Thus the influences of the 
Holy Ghost are compared to tire (Matt, iii, 11), and the 
descent of the Holy Spirit w T as denoted hv the appear- 
ance of lambent flames, or tongues of fire (Acts ii, 3). 
See Tongue. The angels of God also are represented 
under the emblem of fire (Psa. civ, 4). These are the 
more benign applications of the figure, in the sense of 
warmth, activity, and illumination (see YTemyss’s 
Symbol. Diet.). Compare Light. 

FI DE-BAPTISM. The expression “baptize with 
fire” (Matt, iii, 11 ; Luke iii, 1G) is understood by most 
modern interpreters to he synonymous with bajJismby 
the Holy Spirit, e. g. on the day of Pentecost (see Ar- 
thur, Tongue of Fire, passim, Loud. 185G, N. Y. 1857). 
Olshausen ( Comment . ad lcc., Am. ed. i, 2G9) regards 
“ fire” here as put in contrast with the opposite ele- 
ment “water,” i. e. the spiritual as distinct from the 
material baptism. So also Alford ( Greek Test, ad loc. 
Matt.), who remarks that “to separate off Hr. *Ay. as 
belonging to one set of persons, and —vfi as belonging 
to another, w hen both are united in vpetc, is harsh and 
confused.” Yet so Origen early understood the pas- 
sage, and in this Neander, De Wette, Meyer, and many 
other expositors coincide. Dr. Robinson observes that 
“ the wheat are evidently those who receive Christ as 


honor of the dead, especially royal personages, as is 
mentioned specially in the cases of Asa and Zedekinh, 
and negatively in that of Jehoram (2 Chron. xvi, 14 ; 
xxi, 19; Jer. xxxiv, 5). See Funeral. 

VI I. Metallurgic . — The use of fire in reducing and 
refining metals was W'ell known to the Hebrews at 
the time of the Exodus (Exod. xxxii, 24 ; xxxv, 32 ; j 
xxxvii, 2, G, 17 ; xxxviii, 2, 8; Numb, xvi, 38, 39). — 
Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Handicraft. 

VIII. Figurative Senses. — 1. Fire is in the Scriptures | 
considered as a symbol of Jehovah’s presence (sec I 


the Messiah, and embrace his doctrines; these he will 
baptize with the IIolv Ghost, i. e. he will impart to 
them spiritual gifts, the teachings and consolations of 
the Holy Spirit; w'hile the chaff are as evidently those 
who reject Christ and his doctrines, and live in sin ; 
these he will baptize withjtfre unquenchable” (in Cal- 
met, s. v. Baptism). There arc monographs on this 
subject by Iken (Dissert, p. 300-31G), Mieg(J lisc.Duitb. 
i, 205 sq., G02 sq.), Osiander (Tubingen, 1755), Schmid 
(Lips. 170G), Ribov (Gott. 1744), Zeibich (Gcr. 1781), 
Compare Baptism with Fire. 


FIREBRAND 


507 


FIRE-WORSHIP 


Firebrand (‘’PN, ud , a poker or burnt end of a 
stick, Isa. vii, 4; Amos iv, 11; “brand,” Zech. iii, 2; 

lappid', Judg. xv, 4, a lamp or torch [as often 
elsewhere], i. e. flambeau ; pT, zck, only in the plur., 
burning darts , i. e. ariovvs [q. v.] fitted with combus- 
tibles, Prov. xxvi, 18; comp. Eph. vi, 1G). In Judg. 
xv, 4, it is said, “And Samson went and caught three 
hundred foxes [jackals}, and took firebrands, and turn- 
ed tail to tail, and put a firebrand in the midst between 
two tails.” A firebrand in such a position, if sufti- 
cientty ignited to kindle a blaze in the shocks of corn, 
would soon have burnt itself free from the tails of the 
foxes, or have been extinguished by being drawn over 
the ground. A torch or flambeau, on the other hand, 
made of resinous wood or artificial materials, being 
more tenacious of flame, would have answered a far 
better purpose, and such is the legitimate import of 
the original. II is “turning them tail to tail” was ap- 
parently intended to prevent them making too rapid 
a retreat to their holes, or, indeed, from going to their 
holes at all. They were probably not so tied that they 
should pull in different directions, but that they might 
run deviously and slowly, side by side, and so do the 
more effectual execution. Ilad he put a torch to the 
tail of each, the creature, naturally terrified at fire, 
would instantly have betaken itself to its hole, or some 
place of retreat, and thus the design of Samson would 
have been wholly frustrated. Put by tying two of 
them together by the tail they would frequently thwart 
each other in running, and thus cause the greater de- 
vastation. Similar conflagrations produced by ani- 
mals, particularly by foxes, were well known to the 
Greeks and Homans. Thus Lycophron ( Alexandra , 
344) makes Cassandra represent Ulysses as a cunning 
and mischievous man, the “man for many wiles re- 
nowned” of Ilomer, and styles him, very properly, 
XapTcovpic, fire-tail, a name for the fox (/Esch. Fragm. 
38G). The Homans, also, at their feast in honor of 
Ceres, the patron goddess of grain, offered in sacrifice 
animals injurious to corn-fields, and therefore intro- 
duced into the circus, on this occasion, foxes with fire- 
brands so fastened to them as to burn them : a retalia- 
tion, as Ovid seems to explain it, of the injuries done 
to the corn by foxes so furnished (Fasti, iv, G81, 707, 
711). In Poland's Collectanea, there is an engraving 
representing a Homan brick found twenty-eight feet 
below a pavement in London, about the year 1G75, on 
which is exhibited, in basso-relievo, the figure of a 
man driving into a field of corn two foxes with a fire 
fastened to their tails, which many have supposed to 
refer to the feat of Samson, or at least to be a memento 
of the Homan usage just mentioned. Richardson, in 
his Dissertation on til z Eastern Nations, speaking of the 
great festival of fire celebrated by the ancient Persians 
on the shortest night of the year, says, “ Among other 
ceremonies common on this occasion, there was one 
which, whether it originated in superstition or caprice, 
seems to have been singularly cruel. The kings and 
great men used to set fire to large bunches of dry com- 
bustibles, fastened around wild beasts and birds, which 
being let loose, the air and earth appeared one great 
illumination ; and as these terrified creatures natural- 
ly fled to the woods for shelter, it is easy to conceive 
that the conflagrations which would often happen must 
have been peculiarly destructive.” See Fox. 

Firepan (nnn*2, machtali , from nm, to take vp 
coals of fire, etc. ; Sept. 7rrpe?oi.',Yulg. ignium recepta- 
culum ), one of the vessels of the Temple service (Exod. 
xxvii, 3; xxxviii, 3; 2 Kings xxv, 15; Jer. Iii, 10); 
elsewhere rendered “ snuff-dish” (Exod. xxv, 38; 
xxx vii, 23 ; Numb, iv, 0; Sept. inapvariip, tTrapvarpig, 
inru$£pa,Xu\g. emunctorium ) and “censer” (Lev. x, 
1; xvi, 12; Numb, xvi, G sq. ; 2 Cliron. iv, 22; Sept. 

fiiar if pior, Vulg. thuribalmn). These appear, how- 
ever, not to have been two or three forms of utensils, 
but essentially the same kind of article, probably i. q. 


a metallic cinder-basin, of different sizes, for at least 
two uses : one, like a chafing-dish , to carry live coals 
for the purpose of burning incense ; another, like a 
snuffer-dish, used in trimming the lamps, in order to 
(carry the snuffers and) convey away the snuff. See 
Censer. 

Fire-worship. For an account of the fire-wor- 
shippers of modern times, the reader is referred to the 
article Parsees. We attempt here only a brief sketch 
of the origin and extent of pyrolatry among ancient 
nations. Under varying conceptions, as the symbol 
of purity, or of the divine presence and power, or as 
one of the constituent elements, or as typifying the 
destructive principle in nature, fire was early and 
among many nations an object of religious worship. 
If we attach any credit to the statements of the repu- 
ted Sanchoniathon, Usous, whose name reminds us of 
the Biblical Uz, the son of Aram, was the first to in- 
troduce the worship of fire. The violence of the winds 
at Tyre, by rubbing the branches of trees together, 
caused this element to manifest its presence, and Usons 
thereupon erected rude altars to lire and wind, and 
made libations thereon of the blood of animals captured 
in the chase. 

The prevalence of pyrolatry among the Canaanitcs 
is frequently referred to in the Scriptures, and the 
people of God arc solemnly and repeatedly warned 
against forsaking his worship to join in the abomina- 
tions which belonged to the worship of Molech, the 
fire-god of these people (Lev. xviii, 21 ; xx, 2-5 ; Deut. 
xii, 31 ; 1 Kings xi, 7 ; 2 Kings xvi, 3; xxiii, 10, 13 ; 
2 Chron. xxviii, 3: Psa. evi, 37, 38; Jer. vii, 31 ; xix, 
5, G; xxx, 35; Ezek. xvi, 20, 21; xxiii, 37); yet, de- 
spite the denunciations of divine wrath and punish- 
ment, the Israelites sometimes apostatized to this wor- 
ship, and caused their seed to pass through or be burnt 
in the fire to Molech. Solomon and Aliaz were nota- 
ble instances of such apostasy, and from the terms 
employed to describe the conduct of the latter, “and 
burnt his children in the fire after the abominations 
of the heathen whom the Lord had cast out before the 
children of Israel” (2 Chron. xxviii, 3), we learn that 
the worship of Molech in the time of Aliaz was the 
same as in that of the old Canaanitcs. For the cere-, 
monies of this worship, see Molecii. 

“Adrammclech, the fire-god of Sepharvaim; Che- 
mosh, the tire-god of Moab ; Urotal, Dusares, Sair, and 
Thyandrites, of the Edomites and neighboring Arab 
tribes, and the Greek Dionysus, were worshipped un- 
der the symbol of a rising flame of fire, which was im- 
itated in the stone pillars erected in their honor” (Mo- 
vers, Phonizier , i, c. 9). Among the ancient Persians 
and Medes fire-worship was practised in very early 
times by their religious teachers, the Magi, though py- 
rea or fire-temples probably date no further back than 
Zoroaster. Herodotus states (iii. 1G) that the Persians 
regarded fire as a god, and sacrificed to it, as also to 
the heavenly bodies, and the other terrestrial elements 
(i, 131), using the tops of mountains or hills, for they 
had no temples or altars for the worship of their dei- 
ties. Strabo, in agreement with Herodotus, states (§ 
732) that they worshipped on high places, had no im- 
ages or altars, and called the heavens Zeus ; that the} 1- 
made sacrifices, especially (fiacpipovnoC) to fire and 
water, placing dry wood without the bark, and putting 
fat upon it, then kindling the fire from beneath, not 
blowing it with the breath, but fanning it, for they 
esteemed it worthy of death to defile this sacred ele- 
ment by blowing the breath or placing a corpse or ex- 
crement upon it. In speaking of Cappadocia (§ 733), 
he, moreover, tells us that there were many magi 
there, called fire-worshippers (jropaiBoi), and also py- 
nethea or fire-temples, in which the sacred lire was 
kept perpetually burning by the Magi. Fire-temples 
also were found in Persia and other places. The chief 
men of Persia were wont to feed the sacred fires with 
precious oils and rich aromatics, styled by them fire' 


FIRKIN 


5G8 


FIRMAMENT 


banquets (epulce ignis). For the ceremonies of wor- 
ship in connection with these iire-temples, see Magi 
and Parsees. 

Fire-worship was practised also among the Cartha- 
ginians, Scythians, the ancient Germans, and the an- 
cient inhabitants of the British Isles, and we find traces 
of it also in the Mexican and Peruvian worship (Pres- 
cott, Mexico, i, CO, G4 ; Peru, i, 101). Diodorus Sicu- 
lus states (xx, 14) that the Carthaginians, when hard 
pressed by Agathoeles, attributing their reverses to 
the anger of their ancestral divinities, whose worship 
they had neglected, sacrificed 200 of the noblest chil- 
dren (to which number 300 were added by voluntary 
offerings) to Chronos or Saturn, whose brazen statue 
was so constructed that a child placed in its arms rolled 
into a pit of tire. This deity was therefore evidently 
the same as the Molech of their Tyrian ancestors. 
The Hindoos worshipped Agni, the god of fire, and in 
their mythology fire was the symbol of Siva, the de- 
stroyer, a conception of this element seemingly in ac- 
cord with that of the ancient Egyptians (Herod, iii, 1G). 

The sacred fire was carefully watched in the temple 
of Vesta, at Pome, by virgins consecrated to this spe- 
cial service (l Lrginesgue Vest ales in urbe custodiunto 
ignem foci publici sempiternum, Cic. De Leg. ii, 8), and 
the extinction of this fire was regarded as a fearful 
omen, portending great disaster to the state, so that 
the unhappy Vestal whose carelessness or ill luck was 
the occasion of such a misfortune atoned therefor by a 
severe and degrading punishment (Liv. xxviii, 11). 
The ancient Greeks paid worship to the same divinity 
in Hestia, reckoned one of the twelve great gods, and 
symbolized by the fire which burns npcfn the hearth, 
a deity admitted to the penetralia of domestic life. 

IVe find the worship of the heavenly bodies fre- 
quently mentioned in connection with that of the gods 
of fire, and the former was doubtless older, as it was 
the higher form of worship (Dent, xvii, 3; 2 Kings 
xvii, 1G, 17 ; xxi, 3; xxiii, 5, 11 ; Isa. xxvii, 9; Jer. 
viii, 2; Ezek. viii, 1G ; Zeph. i, 5; Herodotus, /. c. ; 
Strabo, l. c.). There appears, therefore, to have been 
some connection between them. According to the 
Greek legends, it was Prometheus, the fire-bearer, 
who, purloining the ethereal and beneficent element 
from the sun, the high divinity of the Sabcean wor- 
ship, conveyed it by stealth to earth as a gift to men, 
braving therefor and incurring thereby the anger of 
Zeus, the Greek form of the name by which, according 
to Herodotus and Strabo, the circuit of the heavens 
was called by the Magi, and probably the same as 
Mithra. May we not find symbolized in this Prome- 
thean legend the connection and the conflict between 
sun-worship and fire-worship, Sabneanism and Ma- 
gism ? For an abstract of the relation of the Mithraic 
worship and the original doctrines of the Zend-Avesta, 
with references to works of modern writers on this 
subject, see De Guignaut’s translation of Creuzer’s 
Pel. de V Antiquite, notes viii, ix, to bk. ii, vol. i, pt. ii, 
p. 728,-Smitb, Diet, of the Bible, s. v. Molech and Fire ; 
Auct. Vnir. Hist. (bond. 1747, 21 vols. 8vo ; see index 
in vol. xx) ; Gibbon, Decline and Fall of Rom,. Empire 
(X. V. 1852, G vols. 12mo), i, 22G-238 ; Smith, Gentile 
Nations (X. V.) ; Stoddart, In trod. l T nh\ JHst. p. 228-9, 
301 ; llyde, De Relig. ret. Persanim (Oxon. 1700, 4to) ; 
Creuzer, Religion de V Antiquite ; Anquetil du Perron, 
Zend-Avesta, etc. (improved in German translation by 
discussions of Kleuker); Bichter, Aelteste Rcligionen 
des Orients. (.1. \V. M.) 

Firkin Qurpij-i'ic, a measurer, occurs only in John 
li, G), a metrites , i. c. the Attic amphora, a measure 
for liquids, equivalent to the Hebrew rath, and con- 
taining about 8$- gallons (Smith's Diet, of Class. An- 
tiq. s. v. Metretes). See Metrology. 

Firmament, a term introduced into our language 
from the Vulgate, which gives frmamentum as the 
equivalent of the orepzwpa of the Sept, and the raki a 


(tPp^) of the Hebrew text (Gen. i, 6); more fully 
firmament of the heavens , Gen. i, 14, 15, 
17). See Heaven. 

1. The Hebrew term is generally regarded as ex-* 
pressive of simple expansion , and is so rendered in the 
margin of the A.V. (1. c.) ; but the true idea of the 
word is a complex one, taking in the mode by which 
the expansion is effected, and consequently implying 
the nature of the material expanded. The verb 
raka', means to expand by beating, whether by the 
hand, the foot, or any instrument. It is especially 
used, however, of beating out metals into thin plates 
(Exod. xxxix, 3 ; Xumb. xvi, 39), and hence the sub- 
stantive “ broad plates” of metal (Xumb. xvi, 

38). It is thus applied to the flattened surface of the 
solid earth (Isa. xlii, 5 ; xliv, 24 ; Psa. cxxxvi, G), and 
it is in this sense that the term is applied to the heaven 
in Job xxx vii, 18, “ Hast thou spread (rather hammer- 
ed ) out the sky which is strong, and as a molten look- 
ing-glass” — the mirrors to which he refers being made 
of metal. The sense of solidity , therefore, is combined 
with the ideas of exjxmsion and tenuity in the term 
rakia. Saalschiitz (.1 rchciol. ii, G7) conceives that the 
idea of solidity is inconsistent with Gen. ii, G, which 
implies, according to him, the passage of the mist 
through the rakia; he therefore gives it the sense of 
pure expansion — it is the large and lofty room in which 
the winds, etc. have their abode. But it should be ob- 
served that Gen. ii, G implies the very reverse. If the 
mist had penetrated the rakia it would have descended 
in the form of rain : the mist, however, was formed 
under the rakia, and resembled a heavy dew — a mode 
of fructifying the earth which, from its regularity and 
quietude, was more appropriate to a state of innocence 
than rain, the occasional violence of which associated 
it with the idea of divine vengeance. But the same 
idea of solidity runs through all the references to the 
rakia. In Exod. xxiv, 10, it is poetically represented 
as a solid floor, “a paved work of a sapphire stone;” 
nor is the image much weakened if we regard the word 
as applying to the transparency of the stone rath- 
er than to t lie paving as in the A. V., cither sense be- 
ing admissible. So again, in Ezek. i, 22-2G, the “ firm- 
ament” is the floor on which the throne of the Most 
High is placed. That the rakia should be transparent, 
as implied in the comparisons with the sapphire (Exod. 
1. c.) and with crystal (Ezek. 1. c. ; comp. Rev. iv, G\ is 
by no means inconsistent with its solidity. Further, 
the office of the rakia in the economy, of the world de- 
manded strength and substance. It was to serve as a 
division between the waters above and the waters be- 
low (Gen. i, 7). In order to enter into this description 
we must carry our ideas back to the time when the 
earth was a chaotic mass overspread with water, in 
which the material elements of t lie heavens were in- 
termingled. The first step, therefore, in the work of 
orderly arrangement was to separate the elements of 
heaven and earth, and to fix a floor of partition be- 
tween the waters of the heaven and the waters of the 
earth ; and accordingly the rakia was created to sup- 
port the upper reservoir (Psa. cxlviii, 4; comp. Psa. 
civ, 3. where Jehovah is represented as “ building his 
chambers of water,” not simply “in water,” as the A. 
Vers. ; the prep. £ signifying the material out of which 
the beams and joists were made), itself being supported 
at the edge or rim of the earth’s disk by the mountains 
(2 Sam. xxii, 8 ; Job xxvi, 11). In keeping with this 
view the rakia was provided with “windows” (Gen. 
vii, 11 ; Isa. xxiv, 18; Mai. iii, 10) and “doors” (Psa. 
Ixxviii, 23), through which the rain and the snow 
might descend. A secondary purpose which the rakia 
served was to support the heavenly bodies, sun, moon, 
and stars (Gen. i, 14), in which they ivere fixed as 
nails, and from which, consequently, they might be 
said figuratively to drop off (Isa. xiv, 12; xxxiv, 4; 


FIRMAMENT 


560 


FIRMILIAN 


Matt, xxiv, 29). In all these particulars wc recognise 
the same view as was entertained by the Greeks, and, 
to a certain extent, by the Latins. The former applied 
to the heaven such epithets as “ brazen” (\a\Ktov, Ho- 
mer, Iliad, xvii, 425; Pind. Fifth, x, 42; Nem. vi, G; 
7 TO/\i'X«Aa:of, II. v, 504; Od. iii, 2) and “iron” (W//- 
ptov, Od. xv, 328 ; xvii, 5G5) — epithets also used in the 
Scriptures (Lev. xxvi,19) — and that this was not mere- 
ly poetical embellishment appears from the views pro- 
mulgated by their philosophers, Empedocles, who de- 
scribed the heavens as crrtptpviov and KpvcrraWotidiic, 
composed of air glacialized by lire (Plutarch, Pine. Phil. 
ii, 11 ; Stobjeus, Eclog. Phys. i, 24 ; Diog. Laertius, viii, 
77 ; Lactant. De Opif. Dei , c. 17 ; comp. Karsten, Phil. 
Gr. Veter. Operum Reliquioe , ii, 422) ; and Artemidorus, 
who taught that “sumnia cceli ora solidissima est, in 
modum tecti durata” (Seneca, (Incest. vii, 13). The 
same idea is expressed in the cielo affixa sidera of the 
Latins (Pliny ii, 39 ; xviii, 57). Plato also, in his Tim - 
(eus, makes mention of the visible heaven under the 
notion of tckjiq (from t P ivot, to ertend ), not unlike the 
Hebrew derivation. If it be objected to the Mosaic 
account that the view embodied in the word rahia does 
not harmonize with strict philosophical truth, the an- 
swer to such an objection is, that the writer describes 
things as they appear rather than as they are. But, in 
truth, the same absence of philosophic truth may be 
traced throughout all the terms applied to this subject, 
and the objection is levelled rather against the princi- 
ples of language than anything else. Examine the 
Latin caelum (icotXov), the “hollow place” or cave 
scooped out of solid space (“ cavern as cadi,” Lucret. 
iv, 172; compare Pott, Etymol. Forschnngen , i, 23, 27); 
our own “ heaven,” i. e. what is heaved up; the Greek 
ovpavoq, similarly significant of height (Pott, Etym. 
.ForscA.T,123); or the German “himmel,” from heimeln, 
to cover — the “roof” which constitutes the “lieim” or 
abode of man : in each there is a large amount of phil- 
osophical error. Correctly speaking, of course, the at- 
mosphere is the true raid i by which the clouds are 
supported, and undefined space is the abode of the ce- 
lestial bodies. There certainly appears an inconsist- 
ency in treating the rahia as the support both of the 
clouds and of the stars, for it could not have escaped 
observation that the clouds were below the stars; but 
perhaps this may be referred to the same feeling which 
is expressed in the caelum ruit of the Latins, the down- 
fall of the rahia in stormy weather. Although the 
rahia and the shamay'm (“ heavens”) are treated as 
identical in Gen. i, 8, yet it was more correct to recog- 
nise a distinction between them, as implied in the ex- 
pression “firmament of the heavens” (Gen. i, 14\ the 
former being the upheaving power and the latter the 
npheaved body — the former the line of demarcation be- 
tween heaven and earth, the latter the strata or stories 
into which the heaven was divided. See Cosmogony. 

2. Hence it is easy to conceive how the Gr. transla- 
tors came to render the Heb. term in question by errt- 
pUofia, a word which is commonly used to designate 
some compact solid, such as the basis of a pillar, or a 
pillar itself, and which is used elsewhere by the Sept, 
as equivalent to the Ileb. r^D, a rock (Psa. xviii, 2), 
and by Svmmachus and Theodotion as the rendering 
of the Heb. a staff. Basil (llexahn. Horn. 3) 

explains the term as not intended to describe what is 
naturally hard, and solid, and weighty, which belongs 
rather to the earth ; but says that because the nature 
of the object above it is fine and thin, and not percep- 
tible by sense, it is called OTtoiiopa, by a comparison 
between things of extreme rarity and such as can be 
perceived by sense (crvyicpifTti nov Xf7 ttotcitiov uni ri) 
ahdpati Kara\}]TTTwv'). It is not very clear what his 
meaning here is, but probably he intended that as a 
solid extension would be properly called a orttfiiopa, 
so this mass of light and vapory substances might bv 
analogy receive this name. Others have suggested 


1 that this term was employed to indicate that the ^-'j^ 

I is the “universitas nov \e7TTO/i8piov in regionem su- 
peram conglobata et firmata,” along with the idea that 
this “nihil habet uspiam inanitatis, sed omnia sui ge- 
t neris natural plena” (Fuller, Miscel. Sac. bk. i, c. vi). 

Fuller thinks also that the Sept, selected ortphopa 
j rather than 7 rsraerpa or Ttpnriracrpa in order to con- 
vey the idea of depth as well as superficial expansion. 
The general opinion, however, is, that the Sept, adopt- 
ed this term rather than one exactly equivalent to the 
original, because it conveys what was the Hebrew be- 
lief concerning the upper atmosphere or visible heav- 
ens, which they regarded as a solid expanse encircling 
the earth, although the true state of the case was 
probably not unknown to them (Job xxxvi, 27, 28). 

; Others, nevertheless, think that the waters above the 
| rahia are merely the clouds, which need no solid sup- 
port (Delitzsch, Comment, on Gen. i, 6; Kurz, Bible 
and Astronomy, in Ilist. of the Old Covenant , i, 30). 

3. "With some old astronomers the firmament is the 
orb of the fixed stars, or the highest of all the heavens. 
But in Scripture and in common language it is used 
for the middle regions, the space or expanse appearing 
like an arch immediately above us in the heavens. 
Many of the ancients, and of the moderns also, ac- 
count the firmament a fluid substance; but those who 
gave it the name of “ firmament” must have regarded 
it as solid. I11 the Ptolemaic astronomy, the firmament 
is called the eighth heaven or sphere, with respect to 
the seven spheres of the planets, which it surrounds. 
It is supposed to have two motions — a diurnal motion 
imparted to it by the^m«?//?i mobile, from east to west, 
about the poles of the ecliptic, and another opposite 
motion from west to east, which last is completed, 
according to Tycho, in 25,412 years ; according to 
Ptolemy, in 3G,000; and according to Copernicus, in 
25,800 ; in which time the fixed stars return to the 
same points in which they were at the beginning. 
This period is called the Platonic, or Great Year . — 
Ivitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Astronomy. 

FirmTcus, Julius Maternus, a Christian writer 
of the 4th century, of whom little is known. There 
was an astrologer of the same name and time, who 
wrote Mathescos lib. viii. There was a bishop of Milan 
of the same mime, who flourished at the same time, but 
probably not the same person. He wrote a book, De 
Errore Profanarum Religionum., which he dedicated to 
Constantins and Constans ; and from this it appears be 
was bred up in heathenism, and afterwards converted 
to the Christian faith. lie is not mentioned by any 
ancient writer ; and there is no direct evidence that 
he held any sacred office in the Christian Church. 
From internal evidence, it appears certain that the 
treatise was written between A.D. 343 and 350. An 
analysis of it is given by Ceillier, Auteurs Sacres(Vi\r. 
1805), iv, 310 sq. The object of the treatise is to trace 
the history of the pagan faith, and to demonstrate the 
falsehood of its various forms. It adopts and applies 
the theory of Euhemerus (q. v.). It was first printed 
by Matt. Flacius (Straslmrg, 1562) ; the latest separate 
edition is that of M11 liter (Copenhagen, 182G, 8vo), 
with prolegomena and notes. It may be found also in 
Bib. Max. Patrol, iv, 1G4 ; Galland, Bib. Patrol, v, 23 ; 
and Migne, Patrol. Lat. vol. xii. 

Firmilian, St., bishop of Cresarea, in Cappadocia, 
was an intimate friend both of Origen (Euseb. vi, 27) 
and Cyprian, with the latter of whom he took part in 
the. controversy relative to the necessity of rebaptiz- 
ing those who had been baptized by heretics. On this 
subject he wrote an Epistle to St. Cyprian, which was 
undoubtedly written in Greek, though the epistle ex- 
tant in St. C3 T prian’s works is in Latin ; it is generally 
allowed to have been translated by Cyprian himself. 
It is very valuable in disproving the authority of the 
bishop of Rome as pope in the 3d century. This epis- 
tle, which is a very long one, is the sixty-fifth among 


FIRMIN 


FIRST-BORN 


5 70 


those of St. Cyprian, and in:n r be found in Oberthiir’s I 
edition of Cyprian (i, 254) ; also in Bouth, Script. Keel. 
Opuseula (Oxon. 1840, i, 227); and in Migne, Patrol . j 
hat . vol. iii. Baronins places the death of Firmilian : 
A.l). 27*2. — Clarke, Succession of Sacred Literature, i, ! 
172; Cave, Hist. Liter. (Geneva, 1720), i, 78; Ceillier, 
Auteurs S acris (Paris, 1805), ii, 435 sq. 

Firmin, Tiiomas, an English Unitarian, noted ; 
for public benefactions and charities, was born at Ips- 
wich, in Suffolk, June, 1032. His parents were Puri- 
tans, very reputable and substantial people, and at a 
proper age put out their son to an apprenticeship in 
London. Ilis master was an Arminian, a hearer of 
Mr. John Goodwin, to whose sermons young Firmin 
resorting, “exchanged,” as we are told, “the harsh 
opinions of Calvin, in which he had been educated, for 
those more reasonable ones of Arminius and the Lemon- 
strants.” He was led to certain opinions not agreeable 
to the orthodox faith, for instance, that “the unit}' 
of God is a unity of person as well as of nature, and 
that the Iloly Spirit is indeed a person, but not God.” 
He settled in business in Lombard Street, and be- 
came intimate with Whicheote, Wilkins, Tillotson, 
etc. ; so particularly with the last that, when obliged 
to be out of town, at Canterbury, perhaps, where he 
was dean, he left to Mr. Firmin the provision of preach- 
ers for his Tuesday’s lecture at St. Laurence. Queen 
Mary heard of his usefulness, and that he was hetero- 
dox in the articles of the Trinity, the divinity of our 
Saviour, and the atonement. She spoke to Tillotson, 
therefore, to set him right in those weighty and neces- 
sary points, who answered that he had often endeav- 
ored it, but that Mr. Firmin had now so long imbibed 
the Socinian doctrine as not to be capable of renounc- 
ing it. However, his grace, for he was then arch- 
bishop, published his sermons, formerly preached at 
St. Laurence’s, concerning those questions, and sent 
Mr. Firmin one of the first copies fr< m the press, who, 
not convinced, caused a respectful answer to be drawn 
up and published, with this title, Considerations on the 
Explications and De fences of the Doctrine of the Trinity, 
himself giving a copy to his grace. The plague in 
1G65, and the fire in 1666, furnished him with a variety 
of objects of charity. He went on with his trade in 
Lombard Street till 1676, at which time his biographer 
supposes him to have been worth £0000, though lie 
had disposed of incredible sums in charities. This 
year he erected his warehouse in Little Britain for the 
employment of the poor in the linen manufacture, on 
which Tillotson spoke honorably in his funeral sermon 
on Mr. Gouge in 1681. In 1680 and 1681 came over 
the French Protestants, who furnished new work for 
Mr. Finnin's zeal and charity, and in 1682 he set up a 
linen manufacture for them at Ipswich. During the 
last twenty years of his life he was one of the govern- 
ors of Christ-church Hospital in London, to which he 
procured many considerable donations. In April, 
1603, he became a governor of St. Thomas’s Hospital 
in Southwark ; and, indeed, there was hardly any pub- 
lic trust or charity in which he either was not or 
might not have been concerned. He was buried, ac- 
cording to his desire, in the. cloisters of Christ-church 
Hospital, and there is placed in the wall near his grave 
an inscription in terms of the highest panegyric. Ilis 
Life was published in 1608, and again by Cornish, 1780, 
l2mo. — Xew Gen. Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Wesley, lForfo (N. 
Y.), ii, 574. 

First-born rn ; Z2, fn N r2, from ^22. to 

ripen early ; Sept, and N. T. tcmototokoc, Yulg. primo- 
genitus ), applied equally to animals and human beings. 
Among the Hebrews the first-born son had many priv- 
ileges, to be entitled to which it was not only required 
that a man should be the first child of his mother, but 
that he should lie, at the same time, the first son of his 
father (Dent, xxi, 15-17). The eldest son received a 
double portion of the father’s inheritance (Deut. xxi, 


17), but not of the mother’s (Mishna, Bekoroth , viii, 9). 
If the father had married two wives, of whom he pre- 
ferred one to the other, he was forbidden to give pre- 
cedence to the son of the one if the child of the other 
were the first-born (Deut. xxi, 15, 16). In the case of 
levirate marriage, the son of the next brother succeed- 
ed to his uncle’s vacant inheritance (Dent, xxv, 5, 6). 
Under the monarchy, the eldest son usually, but not 
always, as appears in the case of Solomon, succeeded 
his father in the kingdom (1 Kings i, 30 ; ii, 22). That 
some rights of primogeniture existed in very early 
times is plain, but it is not so clear in what they con- 
sisted. They have been classed as («.) authority over 
the rest of the family; (6.) priesthood ; (c.) a double 
portion of the inheritance. The birthright of Esau 
and of Beuben, set aside by authority or forfeited by 
misconduct, prove a general privilege as well as quasi- 
sacredness of primogeniture (Gen. xxv, 23, 31, 34 ; 
xlix, 3 ; 1 Chron. v, 1 ; Heb. xii, 16), and a precedence 
which obviously existed, and is alluded to in various 
passages (as Psa. lxxxix, 27 ; Job xviii, 13 ; Bom. viii, 
29; Colos. i, 15; Heb. xii, 23); but the story of Esau’s 
rejection tends to show the supreme and sacred au- 
thority of the parent irrevocable even by himself, rather 
than inherent right existing in the eldest son, which 
was evidently not inalienable (Gen. xxvii, 29, 33, 36; 
Grotius, Oalmet, Patrick, Knobel, on Gen. xxv). See 
Ilottinger, De primogenitis (Marl). 1711); Schroder, De 
rett. Hebr. et primogenitis (Marl). 1741); Fabrieius, Bib- 
I liogr. Antiq. p. 892; Gerdes, De ranis loeis in quibus 
I pirimognntorum mentio occurrit (Duisb. 1730) ; Frisch- 
muth, De primogenitura (Jen. 1649). See Birthright. 

The expression “first-born” is not always to he un- 
derstood literally 1 ' ; it is sometimes taken for the prime, 
most excellent, most distinguished of things. Thus 
“Jesus Christ” is “the first-born of every creature, 
the first-begotten, or first-born from the dead begot- 
ten of the Father before any creature was produced ; 
the first who rose from the dead by his own power (see 
Jour. Sac. Lit. Apr. 1861). Wisdom says that she came 
out of the mouth of the Most High before he had pro- 
duced any creature (Prov. viii, 22; Ecelus. xxiv, 3; 
Isa. xiv, £0). “The first-born of the poor” signifies 
the most miserable of the poor (Job xviii, 13); “the 
first-born of death,” the most terrible of deaths (see 
Wemyss, Symbol. Diet.'). The “Church of the first- 
born” (Heb. xii, 23) signifies the Church of the re- 
deemed — those who have become peculiarly the Lord’s, 
and through the blood of the everlasting covenant, ap- 
plied to their consciences, are consecrated to him for 
evermore, in accordance with the custom of consecra- 
tion described below (see Schdttgeu, llor. Ilebr. i, 922). 

Dkstrfction of the First-born. This was the 
tenth and last plague inflicted on the Egyptians (Exod. 
xi, 1-8 ; xii, 29, 30). We learn from Herodotus (ii, 
85) that it was the. custom of the Egyptians to rush 
from the house into the street, to bewail the dead with 
loud and bitter outcries; and every member of the 
family united in these expressions of sorrow. How 
great must their terror and grief have been when “ at 
midnight Jehovah smote all the first-born in the land 
of Egypt.” Hengstenberg remarks ( Egypt and the 
Books of Moses) that “the phrase ‘all the first-born’ 
must not be pressed too far. The whole tenor of the 
narrative is opposed to such a proceeding, and particu- 
larly the declaration, ‘ There was no house where there 
was not one dead ;’ since in every house there was not 
a first-born. It must not be inferred that none of the 
first-born remained alive in the land, or that none be- 
sides the first-born died. That the Egyptians were 
swept off by an epidemic is indeed probable, and much 
more than probable, from Exod. ix, 15. What the 
Lord there says, he had long been able to do, that he 
now really does ; since the reasons here given in ver. 
16, which until now have prevented him from proceed- 
ing to this last resource, have now ceased ; since, in 
short, he has by a series of acts sufficiently unfold- 


FIRST-BORN 


FIRST-BORN 5 

ed his omnipotence and grace.” See Plagues of 
Egypt. 

FIRST-BORN, Sanctification and Redemption 
of “|2!1 "TIE). Males of human be- 

ings ami animals were strictly enjoined to perpetuate 
the remembrance of the death of Egypt’s first-born, 
whereby the liberty of the Israelites was secured, and 
of the preservation of Israel’s first-born. Compare 
Exod. xii, 2, 11-15. 

1. Sanctification of the First-born , its signification, etc. 
. — The fact that the first-born of Egypt were selected 
to be smitten down for the hard-hearted ness of Phara- 
oh, and that their death was regarded as the greatest 
calamity, shows of itself that a peculiar sanctity had 
already been attached to the first-born of both man 
and cattle. The cause of this is easily traced in the 
Scriptures. The power of procreation was declared 
by God himself to be a special blessing (Gen. i, 22, 28 ; 
ix, 1 ; xvii, 1G ; xxix, 31), and was granted as a re- 
ward to those who were well pleasing in his sight 
(Gen. xv, 4 ; Psa. cxxviii, 4). This was fully appre- 
ciated by the Jews ; for the possession of children, es- 
pecially of the male sex, was esteemed the climax of 
social happiness (Gen. xvi, 2 ; xxix, 31 ; Deut. vii, 13, 
14; Psa. cxxviii, 3, 4), and the absence of them was 
considered a reproach (HE^n), since it implied divine 
displeasure (Gen. xxx, 23), and no other earthly bless- 
ing could compensate for it (Gen. xvi, 1-5). Moreover, 
the first-born of newly-married young people (*3E 

Psa. exxvii, 4) were believed to represent 
the prime of human vigor (jlX r"''rXj), being born 
before the strength of the father began to diminish 
(Gcn.xlix, 3; Deut. xxi,17; Psa. lxxviii, 51 ; cv, 3G). 
It was therefore natural that the first instalment of 
God's blessing, and the prime of man's strength, should 
be regarded with peculiar affection, and have special 
sanctity attached to him, and that by virtue of the 
claim which God has to what is most loved and held 
sacred by us, and gratitude on the part of man, the 
first-born males, both of man and animals, should be 
consecrated to the Giver of all good things ; the one as 
a priest, representing the family to which he belonged 
(Exod. xix, 22,24), and the other as a sacrifice (Gen. 
iv, 4), just as the fat of sacrifices was devoted to God 
because it was regarded as the prime part of the ani- 
mal. See Fat. This explains the fact why the plague 
of the first-born of the Egyptians was so terribly felt ; 
it was the destruction of the objects most dear and sa- 
cred to them, whilst the first-born of the Hebrews, i. e. 
their priests and sacrifices, were spared. Moreover, it 
shows the import of the consecration enjoined in Exod. 
xiii, 1. Hitherto it was optional with the Hebrews 
whether they would devote the first-born to the Lord, 
but now God, by virtue of having so signally inter- 
posed for their deliverance, claims the public consecra- 
tion of the first-born of man as his priests, and of the 
first-born of animals as sacrifices. 

2. Origin of the Redemption of the First-born. — This 
devotion of the first-born was believed to indicate a 
priesthood belonging to the eldest sons of families, 
which being set aside in the ease of Reuben, was trans- 
ferred to the tribe of Levi. This priesthood is said to 
have lasted till the completion of the tabernacle (Jalin, 
Bibl. Arch, x, § 165, 387 ; Selden, De Sgn. c. 1G; Misli- 
na, Zebackim , xiv, 4, vol. v, 58 ; coinp. Ezek. xxiv, 5). 
After the building of the tabernacle and the introduc- 
tion of the extensive sacrificial service, which required 
a special priestly order, as well as a separate staff of 
servants, who could exclusively devote themselves to 
the ministry of the sanctuary, the oftiees of the first- 
born were superseded by those of the Levites (Numb, 
iii, 11-13), and it was ordained that the first-born of 
the other tribes, as well as the first-born of the ani- 
mals which could not be sacrificed, should henceforth 
be redeemed (ib. xviii, 15). 


r l 

3. Redemption of the First-born of Man. — The re- 
demption of a child is to Like place when it is a month 
old, when the father is to give to the priest five silver 
shekels of the sanctuary, i. e. about three dollars as 
the maximum. If it died before the expiration of 30 
days, the Jewish doctors held the father excused, but 
liable to the payment if it outlived that time (Exod. 
xiii, 12-15; xxii, 29; Numb, viii, 17 ; Lev. xxvii, 6; 
Lightfoot, llor. llebr. on Luke ii, 22 ; Philo, De Pr . 
Sacerd. i, ii, 233 ; Mangey). If the child was sickly, 
or appeared otherwise to be inferior to children gener- 
ally, the priest could estimate it at less than this stun 
(Numb, iii, 46, etc. ; xviii, 1G). The priest had to come 
to the house of the infant, as the mother could not ap- 
pear with it in the Temple because her days of purifi- 
cation, according to the law (Lev. xii, 2, 4), were not 
as yet accomplished. No bargaining was allowed, but 
if the priest saw that the parents were poor, he could, 
if he chose, return the money when the ceremony was 
over. When the mother’s days of purification were 
accomplished, and she could appear in the Temple, she 
then brought the child to the priest to be presented 
publicly to the Lord (Luke ii, 22). The Jews still ob- 
serve this law of redemption. When the first-born 
male is thirty days old, the parents invite to their 
house their friends and a priest (jn2) to a meal for 
the following day. The priest, having invoked God’s 
blessing upon the repast, and offered some introduc- 
tory prayers, etc., looks at the child and the price of 
redemption presented before him, and asks the father 
which he would rather have, the money or the first- 
born child. Upon the father’s reply that he would 
rather pay the price of redemption, the priest takes the 
money, swings it round the head of the infant in token 
of his vicarious authority, saying, “ This is for the first- 
born, this is in lieu of it, this redeems it; and let this 
son be. spared for life, for the law of God, and for the 
fear of Ileaven. May it please Thee, that, as he was 
spared for redemption, so he may be spared for the 
Law, for matrimony, and for good works. Amen.” 
The priest lays his hand upon the child’s head and 
blesses it, as follows : “ The Lord make thee as Ephra- 
im and Manasseh!” etc. It is to this that the apostle 
Peter refers when he says, “Ye were not redeemed 
with corruptible things, as silver and gold,” etc. (1 Pe- 
ter i, 18). When the first-born son is thirteen } T ears 
of age, he fasts the day before the feast of Passover, 
in commemoration of the sparing of the first-born of 
the Hebrews in Egypt. Sec Fast. 

4. Redemption of the First-born of clean Animals . — 
The male first-born of animals (EH“} ^123 ; Sept, cia- 
roiyov fiijrpav ; Vulg. quod aperit vulvam ) was also de- 
voted to God (Exod. xiii, 2, 12, 13; xxii, 29; xxxiv, 
19, 20 ; Philo, l. c., and quis rerum dir. hcercs. 24, i, 489, 
Mang.). The first-born of every clean animal (i. e., 
ox, sheep, goat, etc.), from eight days to twelve months 
old, had to be taken to Jerusalem every year (Dent, 
xii, G, etc.), and delivered to the priest, who offered it 
as a sacrifice to Jehovah, sprinkled its blood upon the 
altar, burned the fat, and ate the flesh (Exod. xiii, 13 ; 
xxii, 30; xxxiv, 20; Numb, xviii, 15-17 ; Neh. x, 36). 
In the mean time the animal was not to be used for 
any work, for it belonged to the Lord (Deut. xv, 19) ; 
but if it had any blemish it was not to be sacrificed, 
but eaten np at home (ib. xv, 21, 22). Various refine- 
ments on the subject of blemishes are to be found in 
Mishna, Bekoroth. (See Mai. i, 8. By “firstlings,” 
Deut. xiv, 23, compared with Numb, xviii, 17, are 
meant tithe animals : see Reland, A ntiq. iii, 10, p. 327 ; 
Jahn, Bibl. Arch. § 387). If, however, the man whose 
cattle had first-boru lived at too great a distance from 
Jerusalem to carry them thither, he was commanded 
to sell them, and take the money to the sanctuary 
(Deut. xiv, 24, 25). 

5. Redemption of the First-born of unclean Animals. 
— The first-born of unclean animals, not being allowed 


FIRST DAY 


572 


FIRST-FRUIT 


to be offered as sacrifices, were either to be redeemed ' 
according to the valuation of the priest, with the addi- 
tion of one fifth of the value, and then remain with 
their owner, or be sold, and the price given to the 
priests (Lev. xxvii, 11-13, 27). The first-born of an 
ass was to be redeemed with a Iamb, or, if not redeem- i 
ed, put to death (Exod. xiii, 13; xxxiv, 20; Numb, 
xviii, 15). Commentators hold that the first-born of 
dogs were killed, because they were unclean ; and that 
nothing was given for them to the priests, because I 
there was no trade or commerce in them. See Deut. i 
xxiii, 18. 

G. Literature. — Josephus, Ant. iv, 4, 4; Mishna, Be- 
koroth; Maimonides, Mishnct Tom , iii, 241 ; Ililchoth 
Bechoroth ; I bn Ezra’s comments on the passages cited 
in tliis article; Calmet, on Numb, xviii; The Hebrew 
Prayer-Book , by Knopflmacher (Vienna, 1859), entitled 
Derech Ha-Chajim , p. 407; Per Jsraelitische Volksleh- 
rer, vii, 41 sq. ; ix, 138 sq., 212 sq., 248 sq. — lvitto, s. 
v. ; Smith, s. v. 

First Day of tiie Week. See Lord's Day. 

First-fruit (in the sing. reshith ', begin- 

ning; in the plur. 2^*22, b ikku rim \ first- ripe fruits; 
Sept. TrpojToyEuvhfiara, (nrap\t), cKpaiotga ; Vulgate 
primitice, primitiva, frugnm initia ; comp. iTC^n, te- 
rumali , oblation ; A. V. “ heave-offering,” ete.). The 
same natural feeling which at first led man out of grat- 
itude to consecrate to the Giver of all good things the 
first-born of both man and animals, and the prime 
parts of sacrifices, beeause they were regarded as the 
first instalments of his blessings, and which afterwards 
led to the legalizing of these offerings, also gave rise 
to the offering of the first-fruits and to its becoming 
law. This w r as done publicly by the nation at eaeh of 
the three great yearly festivals, and also by individu- 
als without limitation of time. No ordinance appears 
to have been more distinctly recognised than this, so 
that the use of the term in the way of illustration car- 
ried with it a full significance even in N.-T. times 
(Prov. iii, 9; Tob. i, 6; 1 Mnee. iii, 49; Horn, viii, 23 ; 
xi, 1G; James i, 18; Lev. xiv, 4). 

1. Character and Classification of the First-fruits . — 
(3.) On the morrow after the Passover Sabbath, i. e. 
on the IGth of Nisan, a sheaf of new corn was to be 
brought to the priest, and waved before the altar, in 
acknowledgment of the gift of fruitfulness (Lev. xxiii, 
5, G, 10, 12; ii, 12). Josephus tells us that the sheaf 
was of barley, and that, until this ceremony had been 
performed, no harvest work was to be begun (.1 nt. iii, 
10, 5). See Passover. 

(2.) At the expiration of seven w eeks from this time, 
i. e. at the feast of Pentecost, an oblation was to be 
made of two loaves of leavened bread made from the 
new flour, which were to be waved in like manner w ith 
the Passover sheaf (Exod. xxxiv, 22; Lev. xxiii, 15, 
17; Numb, xxviii, 2G). See Pentecost. 

(3.) The feast of ingathering, i. e. the feast of Tab- 
ernacles in the 7th month, was itself an acknowledg- 
ment of the fruits of the harvest (Exod. xxiii, 1G; 
xxxiv, 22; Lev. xxiii, 39). See Tabernacles. 

Presides these stated occasions, the law also required 
every individual to consecrate to the Lord a part of 
the first-fruit of the land (comp. Exod. xxii, 29; xxiii, 
19; xxxiv, 2G; Numb, xv, 20, 21 ; xviii, 12, 13; Deut. 
xviii, 4 ; xxvi, 2-11). The first-fruits to be offered are 
restricted by Jewish tradition to the seven chief pro- 
ductions of Palestine, viz. wheat, barley, grapes, figs, 
pomegranates, olives, and honey, mentioned in Deut. 
viii, <s in praise of the land (comp. Mishna, Biknrim , i, 
3; Berachoth, 35, a ; Maimonides, Jod Ila-Chezaka, Ilil- 
choth Biknrim , ii, 2"), to which perhaps may be added 
dates (Gesenius, Thes. p. 219; Mishna, Bikurim ; i, 3; 
llasse.lquist, Travels , p. 417); lint the law appears to 
have contemplated produce of all sorts, and to have 
been so understood by Nehemiah (Deut. xxvi, 2 ; Neh. 
x, 35, 37). P>y the Talmudists they are divided into 


two classes: 1. The actual produce of the soil, the raw 
material, such as corn, fruits, etc., wdiieh are denomi- 
nated 7Tf)ioToytvv)ii.iaTa, pnmitiva ; and, 2. 

Preparations of the produce, as oil, flour, wine, etc., which 
are called awapxai , primitive (comp. 31 id rash 

Rabba , the Chaldee Paraphrases of Onkelos and Jona- 
than ben-lTziel, and Rashi on Exod. xxii, 29). (Ge- 
senius, Thes. p. 127G ; Augustine, Qucest. in Jlcpt. iv, 
32, vol. iii, p. 732 ; Speneer, De Leg. Ilebr. iii, 9, p. 713 ; 
Keland, Antiq. iii, 7 ; Philo, De Pr. Sacerd. i [ii, 233, 
Mang.] ; De Sacrific. Abel, et Cain , 21 [i, 177, M.] ; De 
J fonarchia, ii, 3 [ii, 224, Mang.]) 

2. Quantity and Time of Offering. — Of the public of- 
ferings of first-fruits, the law defined no place from 
which the Passover sheaf should be chosen, but the 
Jewish custom, so far as it is represented by the Mish- 
na, prescribed that the wave-sheaf or sheaves should 
be taken from the neighborhood of Jerusalem ( Tan- 
moth, x, 2). Deputies from the Sanhedrim went out 
on the eve of the festival, and tied the growing stalks 
in bunches. In the evening of the festival day the 
sheaf was cut w ith all possible publicity, and carried 

j to the Temple. It w r as there threshed, and an omer 
of grain, after being winnowed, was bruised and roast- 
ed : after it had been mixed with oil and frankincense 
laid upon it, the priest waved the offering in all direc- 
tions. A handful was thrown on the altar-fire, and 

; the rest belonged to the priests, to be eaten by those 
ivho were free from ceremonial defilement. After this 
the harvest might be carried on. After the destruc- 
tion of the Temple all this w r as discontinued, on the 
principle, as it seems, that the house of God was ex- 
clusively the plaee for oblation (Lev. ii, 14; x, 14; 
xxiii, 13; Numb, xviii, 11; Mishna, Terum. v, G; x, 
4, 5 ; Shekalim , viii, 8 ; Josephus, Ant. iii, 10, 5 ; Philo, 
De proem, sac. i [ii, 233, Mang.] ; Reland, Antiq. iii, 7, 
3 ; iv, 3, 8). 

The offering made at the feast of Pentecost was a 
thanksgiving for the conclusion of w’heat harvest. It 
consisted of two loaves (according to Josephus one 
loaf) of new' flour baked with leaven, which were waved 
by the priest as at the Passover. The size of the 
loaves is fixed by the Mishna at seven palms long and 
four wide, with horns of four fingers length. No pri- 
vate offerings of first-fruits were allowed before this 
public oblation of the two loaves (Lev. xxiii, 15, 20; 
Mishna, Terum. x, G; xi, 4; Josephus, Ant. iii, 10, G; 
Reland, Antiq. iv, 4, 5). 

The quantity of private first-fruits to be consecrated 
to the Lord has neither been fixed by the law' nor by 
tradition ; it was left entirely to the generosity of the 
people. “Yet,” says Maimonides, “it is implied that 
a sixtieth part is to be consecrated, and he who wishes 
to devote all the first-fruits of his field may do so” 
( Ililchoth Bikurim , ii, 17). Tiie way in which a pro- 
prietor fixed whieh first-fruit he should offer was this, 
as the Mishna tells ns, “ -when he w r ent into his field 
and saw a fig ripening, or a bunch of grapes, or a pome- 
granate, he tied a rush about it, and said, ‘Lo. this is 
first-fruit’ ” ( Bikurim , iii). All the first-fruits thus de- 
voted to the Lord had to be delivered at Jerusalem be- 
tween the feasts of Pentecost and Dedication (Exod. 
xxiii, 1G; Lev. xxiii, 1G, 17 ; Bikurim , i, 3G); any of- 
fering brought after this time was not received. 

3. Manner in whieh these Offerings were taken to Jeru- 
salem . — The first-fruits of the land were to he brought 
in a basket to the holy place of God’s choice, and there 
presented to the priest, who was to set the basket down 
before the altar. The offerer was then, in words of 
which the outline, if not the whole form w r as prescribed, 
to recite the story of Jacob's deseent into Egypt, and 
the deliverance therefrom of his posterity, and to ac- 
knowledge the blessings with wliieh God had visited 
him (Deut. xxvi, 2-1 1). The law that every one 
should take up the first-fruits to Jerusalem was soon 

| found impracticable, since even the most pious Israel- 


FIRST-FRUIT 


573 


FIRST-FRUIT 


ite found it very difficult, in addition to his appearing 
at the three great festivals, to have to go to the Tem- 
ple with every newly-ripened fruit. Nor was it found 
convenient for every one to go up with his first-fruits 
separately. Hence the custom arose, that when the 
first-fruits were ripe, all the inhabitants of one district ! 
who were ready to deliver them assembled together in | 
the principal town of that locality where their repre- 
sentative lived, with a basket containing the ripe fruits 
of the seven several kinds, arranged in the following 
manner: “The barley was put lowermost, the wheat 
over it, the olives above that, the dates over them, the 
pomegranates over the dates, and the figs were put 
uppermost in the basket, leaves being put between ev- 
ery kind to separate it from the other, and clusters of 
grapes were laid upon the figs to form the outside of 
the basket*’ (Maimonides, Hilchoth Bikurim , iii, 7 ; To- 
sifta Bikurim , ii). With this basket all the pilgrims 
(or at least a company of twenty-four persons) staid 
up all night in the open market-place, because they 
were afraid to go into houses to sleep lest any inmate 
of them should die, and thus cause pollution. Early 
in the morning the representative of the district, who 
was the official (“J'S ^"2) and ex officio the leader of the 
imposing procession, summoned them with the words 
of the prophet Jeremiah, “Arise, and let us go lip to 
Zion, to the house of Jehovah our God” (xxxi, G). 
The whole company were then ready to start. We 
cannot do better than give literally the description 
which the Mislina and the Talmud give of this im- 
posing procession : An ox [destined for a peace-offer- 
ing] went before them with gilded horns and an olive 
crown upon its head, and a piper who played before 
them, whilst the air rang with the song of the people, 
“I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into 
the house of the Lord” (Psa. cxxii, 1). On approach- 
ing Jerusalem a messenger was sent forward to an- 
nounce their arrival, and the first-fruits were tastefully 
arranged. The officiating priest, the Levites, and the 
treasurers went out to meet them, the number of offi- 
cials who went out being in accordance with the large- 
ness of the party that arrived, and conducted them into 
the holy city, singing, as they entered, “ Our feet stand 
within thy gates, O Jerusalem” (Psa. cxxii, 2), whilst 
all the workmen [who plied their craft] in the streets 
of Jerusalem stood up before them and welcomed them, 
saying, “ Brethren of such and such a place, peace be 
with you.” The piper continued to play before them 
till the procession came to the mount of the Temple. 
Here every one, even the king, took his own basket 
upon his shoulders, and went forward till they all came 
to the court of the Temple, singing, “Praise ye the 
Lord, praise God in his sanctuary,” etc. [through the 
whole of Psalm cl]; whereupon the Levites sang, “I 
will extol thee, O Lord! because thou hast lifted me 
up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me” 
(Psa. xxx). Then the pigeons which were hung about 
the baskets were taken for burnt-offerings, and the pil- 
grims gave to the priests what they brought in their 
lnnds. With the baskets still upon their shoulders 
every one repeated, “ I profess this day unto the Lord 
thy God,” etc., till he came to the words, “A wander- 
ing Syrian was iny father” (i. e. from Dent, xxvi, 3-5), 
when he took the basket off his shoulders and laid hold 
of it by its brim ; the priest then put his hands under 
it and waved it, whilst the offerer continued to recite 
from the words “A wandering Syrian,” where he had 
left oft', to the end of the section (i. e. to Deut. xxvi, 
10), then put the basket by the side of the altar, threw 
himself down on his face, and afterwards departed 
(Mislma, Bikurim , iii, 2-G; Jerusalem Bikurim , Go; 
Maimonides, Hilchoth Bikurim , iv, 1G, 17). These first- 
fruits then became the property of the priests who offi- 
ciated during that week. The baskets of the rich were 
of gold or silver, those of the poor of peeled willow. 
The baskets of the latter kind were presented to the 
priests, who waved the offerings at the S.W. corner of | 


the altar: the more valuable baskets were returned to 
the owners ( Bik . iii, G, 8). After passing the night at 
Jerusalem, the pilgrims returned on the following day 
to their homes (Deut. xvi, 7 ; Terum. ii, 4). It is men- 
tioned that king Agrippa bore his part in this highly 
picturesque national ceremony by carrying his basket 
like the rest to the Temple {Bik. iii, 4). Among other 
by-laws were the following: 1. lie who ate his first- 
fruits elsewhere than in Jerusalem, and without the 
proper form, was liable to punishment {Maceoth, iii, 3, 
vol. iv, 284, Surenli.). 2. 'Women, slaves, deaf and 
dumb persons, and some others, were exempt from the 
verbal oblation before the priest, which was not gener- 
ally used after the feast of Tabernacles {Bik. i, 5, G). 

4. Exemption from the Offering or the connected Ser- 
vice. — Those who simply possessed the trees and not 
the land were exempted from the offering of first- 
fruits, for they could not say “ the land which thou 
hast given me ” (Maimonides, Hilchoth Bikurim , ii, 13). 
Those, too, who lived beyond the Jordan could not 
bring first-fruits in the proper sense of the libation, in- 
asmuch as they could not say the words of the service, 
from “the land that floweth with milk and honey” 
(Deut. xxvi, 15 ; compare Mislina, Bikurim , i, 10). A 
proselyte, again, though he could bring the offering, 
was not to recite the service, because he could not use 
the words occurring therein (Deut. xxvi, 3), “I am 
come to the country which the Lord sware unto our 
fathers to give us ” {Bikurim. i, 4). Stewards, servants, 
slaves, 'women, sexless persons, and hermaphrodites 
were also not allowed to recite the service, though 
they could offer the libation, because the}' could not 
use the words, “I have brought the first-fruits of the 
land which thou , 0 Lord, hast given we” (Deut. xxvi, 
JO), they having originally had no share in the land 
{Bikurim., i, 5). 

5. Offering of the prepared Produce. — In this, too, 
the quantity to be offered was left to the generosity of 
the people. But it was understood, says Maimoni- 
des, that “a liberal man will give a fortieth part of 
his first-fruits ; one who is neither liberal nor illiberal 
will give a fiftieth part, and a covetous man will give 
a sixtieth” {Hilchoth Teruma , iii, 2). They had to lie 
presented even from the produce of Jewish fields in 
foreign countries, and were not allowed to be taken 
from the portion intended for tithes, nor from the cor- 
ners left for the poor {Teruma, i, 5; iii, 7), and were 
not required to be delivered in the Temple, but might 
be given to the nearest priest {lb. iv, 3 ; Bikurim, ii, 2). 
They consisted of wine, wool, bread, oil, date-honey, 
onions, cucumbers {Terum. ii, 5, G ; Numb, xv, 19, 21 ; 
Deut. xviii, 4). The measuring-basket was to be 
thrice estimated during the season {lb. iv, 3). He 
who ate or drank his offering by mistake was bound 
to add one fifth, and present it to the priest (Lev. v, 
16; xxii, 14), who was forbidden to remit the penalty 
{Terum. vi, 1, 5). The offerings were to be eaten cr 
used only by those who were clean from ceremonial 
defilement (Numb, xviii, 11 ; Deut. xviii, 4). 

G. The First-fruit of the Dough. — Besides the offer- 
ing of the first-fruits themselves, the Israelites were 
also required to give to the Lord a cake made of the 
first corn that was threshed, winnowed, and ground 
(Numb, xv, 18-21). Tradition restricts this to wheat, 
barley, casmin, or rye, fox-ear (barley), and oats 
{Chala, i, 1 ; Maimonides, Bikurim, vi, 1), of which a 
twenty-fourth part had to be given, but the baker who 
made it for sale had to give a forty-eighth part (Mai- 
monides, Hilchoth Bikurim, v, 2, 3). This was the per- 
quisite of the priest, and it is to this that the apostle 
refers in Bom. xi, 1G. 

7. First-fruits of Fj'uit-trees. — According to the law, 
the fruits of every newly-planted tree were not to be 
eaten or sold, or used in any way for the first three 
years, but considered “uncircumcised” or unclean. 
In the fourtli } r ear, however, the first-fruits were to be 
consecrated to the Lord, or, as the traditional explana- 


FIRST-FRUIT 


574 


FISH 


tion is, eaten in Jerusalem, and in the fifth j'ear he- 1 
came available to the owner (Lev. xix, 23-25). The j 
three years, according to Rabbinic law, began with 
the first of Tisri, if the tree was planted before the six- 
teenth of Ab. The reason of this is that the fruits of 
those three years were considered imperfect ; such im- 
perfect fruit could not., therefore, be offered to God ; 
and as man was not allowed to partake of the produce 
before he consecrated the first instalment of God’s 
blessings to the giver of all good things, the planter 
had to wait till the fifth year (comp. Josephus, Ant. iv, 
8, 10 ; and Abeii Ezra on Lev. xix, 23). The law may 
also have had the ulterior object of excluding from use 
crude, immature, and therefore unwholesome fruits. 
Mieliaelis (iii, 2G7-8), indeed, finds a benefit to the 
trees themselves in this regulation : “The economical 
object of the law is very striking. Every gardener | 
w ill teach us not to let fruit-trees bear in their earliest 
years, but to pluck olf the blossoms ; and for this rea- 
son, that they will thus thrive the better, and bear 
more abundantly afterwards, since, if we may not 
taste the fruit the first three years, we shall be the 
more disposed to pinch off the blossoms, and the son 
will learn to do this of his father. The very expres- 
sion ‘to regard them as uneircumcised’ suggests the 
propriety of pinching them off ; 1 do not sa} r cutting 
them off, because it is generally the hand, and not a 
knife, that is employed in the operation.” The trees 
found growing by the Jews at the conquest were treat- 
ed as exempt from this rule (Mislma, Ovlah , i, 2). See 
Fruit. 

8. Historical Notices. — The corruption of the nation 
after the time of Solomon gave rise to neglect in these 
as well as in other ordinances of the law', and restora- 
tion of them was among the reforms brought about by 
Ilezekiah (2 Chron. xxxi, 5, 11). Neliemiah also, at 
the return from captivity, took pains to reorganize the 
offerings of first-fruits of both kinds, and to appoint 
places to receive them (Neb. x, 35, 37 ; xii, 44). Per- 
version or alienation of them is reprobated, as care in 
observing is eulogized by the prophets, and specially 
mentioned in the sketch of the restoration of the Tem- 
ple and Temple-service made by Ezekiel (Exod. xx, 
40; xliv, 30; xlviii, 14; Mai. iii, 8). 

An offering of first-fruits is mentioned as an accept- 
able one to the prophet Elisha (2 Kings iv, 42). 

Offerings of first-fruits w'ere sent to Jerusalem by 
Jews living in foreign countries (Josephus, Ant. xvi, 
G, 7). 

Offerings of first-fruits w'ere also customary in hea- 
then systems of worship (Ilomer, II. ix, 529 ; Odys. iii, 
414; Enrip. Orest. 96; Phcen. 1523; Calliin. in Cerer. 
19 ; Theocr. vii, 31 ; Stat. Theb. ii, 742 ; Aristoph. Ran. 
1272; Pausnn. i, 43, 4; ix, 19, 4; Long. Pastor, ii, 2 
and 22 ; Diod. Siculus, i, 14 ; Plutarch, Isid. 6G ; Pliny, 
xviii, 2; iv, G; Calpurn. Eel. iv, 122 ; Ovid, Met. viii, 
273; x, 431; East, ii, 519; Tibul. i, 1, 13; Spanheim, 
ad Call ini. Del. 283; Porphyry, De Abstin. ii, 56, 32; 
Epictet. 38 ; etc.). See Patrick, On Deut. xxvi ; Spen- 
cer, De Leg. Ilebr. iii, 9, De Primitiarum Origine ; Les- 
lie, On Tithes , in Worlcs, vol. ii ; Dougtafi A nalect. i, 89 ; 
Lakemacher, Ant. Gr. p. 402; Munter, Relig. der Kar- 
thag. p. 54. 

9. Figurative Allusions. — In the New' Testament, the 
“first-fruits” are emblematical of abundance and ex- 
cellence, and also the earnest or sample of a full har- 
vest at hand. Paul says (Rom. viii, 23), Christians 
“have the first-fruits of the Spirit,” 3. c. the first gifts 
of the Spirit, the earnest, the pledge of future and still 
higher gifts. (See the monographs on this text by 
Gruner [Hal. 17G7], Anon. [Gott. 1767], Muller [£«- 
tura Ohs. Philo! . p. 120], Keil [Lips. 1809].) Christ is 
ealled “the first-fruits of them that slept,” i: e. the 
first who rose from the dead (1 Cor. xv, 20, 23; xvi, 
15; Rom. xi. 16; James i, 18; Rev. xiv, 4). 

10. literature. — Mishna, Bikurim , Teruma , Chala , I 
and Orla; Maiuiouides,«/oc/ Ha-Chezaka, Ililchoth Biku - I 


rim, iii, 121; Lewis, Antiq. of the Hebrew Republic , i, 
145, etc. (Lund. 1724); Saalschiitz, Mosaische Reclit , p. 
343 sq., 41G sq., 433 sq. ; Herzfeld, Geschichte d. Volkes 
Israel , ii, 128 sq. ; Jost, Geschichte des Judenthums, i, 172 
sq. ; Carpzov, Appar. p. Gil sq. ; Bauer, Gottesd. Verf. 
i, 251 sq. ; Gruner, De primitiarum oblatione (Lugd. B. 
1739; also in Ugolino, xvii). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. 
v. See Offering. 

FIRST-FRUITS. “1. True Christians are called 
‘a kind of first-fruits of God’s creatures (James i, 18), 
as being specially consecrated to him.’ 2. The com- 
munications of God’s grace on earth, as an earnest of 
future glory, are also so called (Rom. viii, 23), and for 
the same reason, the resurrection of Christ, as ‘the 
pledge of the resurrection of the just’ (1 Cor. iv, 20). 
3. In an ecclesiastical sense, this term is applied to the 
first years produce of benefices, which the pope de- 
manded of foreigners to whom he gave benefices of 
the Church of England. Henry VIII rescued this 
payment from the pope, but annexed it to the crown. 
Queen Anne, however, gave them back to the Church 
for the augmentation of small livings” (Eden). See 
i Annates. The valor benef ciorum, commonly called 
the value in the King's Books , was made at the same 
time as the statute 2G Henry VIII, c. 3, by which 
these payments w'ere transferred to the crown. A 
former valuation had been made, 20 Edw r ard I, which 
still exists in the exchequer. By this statute and one 
subsequent, 1 Elizabeth IV, every spiritual person ad- 
mitted to a benefice must pay his first-fruits within 
I three months after induction, in proper proportion : if 
he does not live half a year, or be ousted before the 
expiration of the first year, only one quarter is re- 
quired ; if he lives the year, or be ousted before eigh- 
teen months, oue half; if a year and a half, three 
quarters; if two years, the whole. Archbishops and 
bishops have four years allowed them, and shall pay 
one ’quarter every year, if they live so long on the see. 
Other dignitaries pay as rectors and vicars. By sev- 
eral statutes of Anne, all livings under T50 per annum 
are discharged of the payment of first-fruits and tenths. 
The following notice of the valuation in the King’s 
Books, and the former payments to the pope as primi - 
tier, is taken from Godwin’s w r ork, De Prcesulibus Angl. 
The florin was 4s. Gr/., the ducat 8s. English : 



King’s Books. 

To the Pope. 

Canterburv 

X2CS2 12 2 

10,000 florins. 

For a pall 


5,000 “ 

London 

1000 0 0 

3,000 “ 

Winchester 

2873 IS 1J 

12,0 i0 ducats. 


2134 IS 61 

7,000 “ 

Lincoln 

S2S 14 tq 

5,000 “ 

Litchfield and Coventry. 

550 17 3V 

1,733 “ 

Salisbury 

13S5 5 0 

4,500 u 

Bath and Wells 

533 1 3 

430 florins. 

Fxeter 

500 0 0 

6,0(10 ducats. 

Norwich 

S34 11 H 

5,o00 11 

Worcester 

020 13 3 

2,000 florins. 

Hereford 

70S 11 01 

2,000 “ 

Chichester 

677 1 3 

333 ducats, 

Rochester 

158 4 01 

1,300 florins. 

Oxford 

SSI 11 01 


Gloucester 

315 7 1 


Be terho rough 

414 10 SI 


Bristol 

204 11 OJ 


St. David’s 

420 2 1 

1,500 florins. 

Llandaff 

154 14 2 

700 “ 

Bangor 

131 1C 3 

126 “ 

St. Asaph 

1S7 11 8 

126 “ 

York 

1G10 0 0 

10.000 ducats. 

For a pall 


5,000 “ 

Durham 

1S21 1 3 

9,(100 “ 

Carlisle 

531 4 01 

1,000 “ 

Chester 

420 1 8 



It will be observed that the bishoprics of Oxford, 
Gloucester, Reterborough, Bristol, and Chester, as cre- 
ations or revivals by Henry VIII, are not included in 
the above catalogue as paying to the pope. — Eadie, 
Eccl. Cyclop, s. v. ; Bingham, Orig. Eccl. bk. v, ch. vi, 

§j. 

Fish (-’H, dag , so called from its great, fecundity ; Gr. 


FISH 


575 


FISH 


ixGt'C, Gen. ix, 2 ; Numb, xi, 22 ; JoiKih ii, 1, 10 ; Matt, 
vii, 10; xiv, 17; xv, 34; Luke v, 0; John xxi, 6,8, 
11). The Hebrews recognised fish as one of the great 
divisions of the animal kingdom, and, as such, give 
them a place in the account of the creation (Gen. i, 21, 
28; where, however, they are included under the gen- 
eral terms “pTd, she'rets, swarm, and nb’SI, rome - 
seth , creeping thing, i. e. destitute of legs ; and as dis- 
tinguished from the larger inhabitants of the deep, 
tnrsri, tanninim '), as well as in other passages where 
an exhaustive description of living creatures is intend- 
ed (Gen. ix, 2 ; Exod. xx, 4 ; Deut. iv, 18 ; 1 Kings iv, 
33). They do not, however, appear to have acquired 
any intimate knowledge of this branch of natural his- 
tory. Although they were acquainted with some of the 
names given by the Egyptians to the different species 
(for Josephus, War, iii, 10, 8, compares one found in 
the Sea of Galilee to the coracmus ), they did not adopt 
a similar method of distinguishing them ; nor was any 
classification attempted beyond the broad divisions of 
clean and unclean, great and small. The former was 
established by the Mosaic law (Lev. xi, 9, 10), which 
pronounced unclean such fish as were devoid of fins 
and scales: these were and are regarded as unwhole- 
some food in Egypt (Wilkinson, .hue. Egypt, iii, 58, 59), 
so much so that one of the laws of El-Ilakim prohibit- 
ed the sale, or even the capture of them (Lane, Modern 
Egyptians , i, 136, note; De Sacy, Chrestomathie Arabe , 
2d ed. i, 98). This distinction is probably referred to 
in the terms acnroci (esui non ulunea , Schleusner’s Lex. 
s. v. ; Trench, On Parables , p. 137) and Kct\d (Matt, 
xiii, 48). This law of Moses may have given rise to 
some casuistry, as many fishes have scales, which, 
though imperceptible when first caught, are very ap- 
parent after the skin is in the least dried. Maimoni- 
des, with less reason, sees in the Levitical distinctions 
of jins aud scales among fishes “marks whereby the 
more noble and excellent species might be distin- 
guished from those that were inferior” (Townley’s 
Mare Nevochim , p. 305). In no ordinance of the laws 
of Moses do we find fishes prescribed as religious offer- 
ings. In this respect, as well as many others, these 
laws were opposed to the heathen rituals, which ap- 
pointed fish-offerings to various deities. Besides the 
It pi lotus, the oxyrhincus , the pkagrus (eel, “from its 
unwholesome qualities not eaten by the ancient Egyp- 
tians,” Wilkinson, v, 251), latus , and mceotes were held 
sacred in various parts of ancient Egypt (Clem. Alex., 
Plutarch, Strabo, Athenaeus, are the authorities re- 
ferred to bv Sir G. Wilkinson, v, 125). Iu the Ordi- 
nances of Menu , ch. v (on Diet, Purification , etc.), secs. 
15, 16, “the twice-born man is commanded diligently 7 
to abstain from fish ; yet the two fishes called pathina 
(sheat-fish, Silurus pelorias) and rohita (rohi-fish, Cy- 
primts denticulatus ) may be eaten by the guests, when 
offered at a repast in honor of the gods or manes ; and 
so may the rajiva (a large fish, Cyprinus Ndoticus ), the 
sinhatunda , aud the sasalca (probably shrimps and 
prawns) of every species” (Sir W. Jones’s Laws of 
Menu, by llaughton, p. 146). Similarly iu the hea- 
then observances of other nations ; thus “ A pna [que- 
ry, Anchovy] Veneri erat sacra; Concha [perhaps Pearl- 
oyster] Vcneri stat ; Mullus Dianne ; pisces omnes Nep- 
tuno; Tkunnus Ncptuno.” (Beyer, Addit. ad Seldeni 
Syntug . de Diis Syriis ; Ugolini Thesmir. xxxiii, 338. 
Vossius, in Hoffmanni Lexicon, iii, 771, has a much 
longer list of fourteen fishes, “a veteribns pro Diis ha- 
biti." Consecrated fishes were kept in reservoirs, 
with rings of gold, or silver, or brass attached to them. 
So Sir J. Chardin in Harmer, iii, 58.) It was perhaps 
as an image of fecuudity that the fish was selected as 
an object of idolatry : the worship of it was widely 
spread, from Egypt (Wilkinson, iii, 58) to Assyria 
(Layard, Nineveh , ii, 467), and even India (Baur, My- 
thology, ii, 58). Among the Philistines, Dagon (=lit- 
tlefish ) was represented by a figure half man and half 


fish (1 Sam. v, 4). On this account the worship of 
fish is expressly prohibited (Deut. iv, 18). See Da- 
gox. The form of a fish (Notius Poseidon ) was, from 
remote ages, a type of protective dominion, which the 
symbolizing spirit of the ancients caused to pass into 
Christianity, as appears from Eusebius (Life of Con- 
stantine') and St. Augustine (De Civitate Dei). On the 
walls of the oldest catacombs of Rome the representa- 
tion of the 1XO VS is frequently discernible, and al- 
ways interpreted as an emblem of the Saviour. 

Taking fishes in the scientific sense of “oviparous, 
vertebrated, cold-blooded animals, breathing water by 
means of gills or branchice, and generally provided 
with fins,” none are mentioned by name throughout 
the O. T. and N. T. ; but, regarded in the popular and 
inexact sense of aquatic animals, inhabitants more or 
less of the water, we meet with eleven instances which 
require some notice here. 1. That well-known batra- 
chian reptile, the frog (r^SIS, tseparde ii), which 
emerges from a fish-like infancy, breathing by gills 
instead of lungs, and respiring water instead of air, is 
often mentioned in Exod. viii, but only in two passages 
else, Psa. lxxviii, 45, and cv, 30. See Frog. 2. The 
annelid horse-leech, whose name occurs only once, 
Prov. xxx, 15 (np^bp, alukah'). “ It would appear 
that the blood-sucking quality of this useful little ani- 
mal is a direct and exclusive ordination of Providence 
for man’s advantage. That blood is not the natural 
food of the animal is probable from the fact that, in 
the streams and pools which they inhabit, not one in a 
hundred could, in the common course of things, ever 
indulge such an appetite ; and even when received 
into the stomach, it does not appear to be digested; 
for, though it will remain there for weeks without co- 
agulating or becoming putrid, yet the animal usually 
dies unless the blood be vomited through the mouth” 
(Gosse’s Zoology, ii, 374). Of course it is the smaller 
species, tli3 Hirudo medicinalis , that is here referred 
to. But the larger species, the Ilcemopsis sanguisuga, 
or “ horse-leech,” has a still greater voracity for blood. 
Bocbart (Ilieroz. ii, 796-802) and Schultens (Prov. in 
loc.) give another turn to Prov. xxx, 15, by identifying 
nplb? with the Arabic cduk, and making fate or des- 
tiny, instead of the hoi'se-leech , the insatiable exacter. 
The ancient versions, however, must be deemed to out- 
weigh their learned speculations ; added to which the 
Arabic alakat , the Syriac aluka, and the Chaldee and 
Talmudic or all designate the leech, 

which is as abundant in the East as it ever was in onr 
Western countries. The blood-appetite of this animal 
made it suitable to point a proverb : Horace says, Non 
missura cutem, nisi plena cruoris, hirudo (De Arte Poet. 
476). With this comp. Plautus, Epidicus, ii, 2, 4, 5; 
and Cicero, ad Atticum, lib. i, epist. 13. See Horse- 
leech. 3. The testaceous mollusk (Ostrea marina, 
Gesenius, Thes. p. 1263), called by the Hebrews 
argaman' ; by Avicenna, Alargiawan ; by 7 Galen, Oa- 
Xaoaia 0op0upn, is the Murex trunezdus of zoology, 
from which the renowned Tyrian dye used to lie ob- 
tained. This shell-fish (and not the “ p>urple" extract- 
ed from it) is with good reason supposed by Gesenius 
to be referred to in Cant, vii, 5 : The tresses of thine 
head are like the wreathed shell of the purple-fish ; re- 
minding us of the ancient head-dresses of the Atheni- 
ans, described by 7 Thucydides, i, 6, 3 (comp, the coni- 
cal head-tuft of the Roman Tntulus [Yarro, De ling, 
htin. vii, 3, 90], and Virgil’s Crines nodantur in aurum ). 
A second reference to this shell-fish probably occurs in 
Ezek. xxvii, 7. The Tyrians seem to have imported 
some mui'ices from the Peloponnesus (the same as 
“ EUshah" according to Heeren, Researches , Asiatic 
Nations [Oxford, trails.], i, 361); and Gesenius sup- 
poses that these, the material out of which the cele- 
brated dye was procured, are referred to by the prophet 
in his enumeration of the Tyrian merchandise. That 


FISH 


576 


FISH 


these fishes were supplied from the coast of Greece we 
learn from Horace, Od. ii, IS, 7 (Laconicce purjmne ) ; 
from Pausanias, iii, 21, 6 ; and from Pliny, ix, 30. See 
Purple. 4. The other word used hy Ezekiel in this 
passage, r:pri, teke'leth, is described by Gesenius, 
Thes. p. 1503, as" “a species of shell-fish ( Conchylium , He- 
lix ianthinw [concha]), found cleaving to the rocks in 
the Mediterranean Sea, covered with a violet shell 
(Forskal, Descript, animal, p. 127), from which was pro- i 
cured a dark-blue dye.” In the many other passages 
where these two words occur, they undoubtedly desig- j 
nate either the colors or the material dyed in them. 
The phrase “treasures hid in the sand” (Dent, xxxii, 
19) is supposed to refer to the abundance of the rich 
dyes afforded by the r?zn and other testaceous ani- 
mals found in the sand, on the Phoenician coast, as- 
signed to Zebulon and Issachar (Targum of Jonathan 
b. Uziel, Walton, iv, 387, and Gesenius, Thes. p. 1503). 
See Blue. 5. The "j " 2 P) , tannin ( plur . or 

nrsr) must be carefully distinguished from fSPi, 
tanninT , the plural of the unused word “rt, a jackal, 
according to Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1138. “ The sea- 

monsters,” which are described by Jeremiah (Lament, 
iv, 3) as “suckling their young,” used to be regarded 
as the mammiferous whales or other large cetacea 
(Calmet by Taylor, “Fragments” on Natural History , 
No. xxvi). They are by Gesenius ( l . c.) supposed to 
be rather 0^2 Pi , jackals; this is the reading of some 
of the MSS. (Kennicott, ii, 54G), and Gesenius accepts 
the Masoretic text as an Aramaic form of it. In Ezek. 
xxix, 3, and xxxii, 2, the textual reading CSP, 
which is represented usually as an anomalous singular 
noun, should no doubt be the regular singular, 

which may well bear (what the other word could not) 
the snitable sense of crocodile; the MS. authority in 
favor of the latter word is overwhelming (Kennicott, 
ii, 212). For a description of the “".r, see Whale. 
0. TVZ P2, Behemoth ' (q. v.). 7. Leviathan. 

See Crocodile. 8. “ The great fish,” Fna 3^, of 
Jonah i, 17 (Pin in ii, 1), was probably seme species 
of shark, such as the Zygoma malleus , or t lie Carcharias 
vulgaris (the white shark), therefore strictly a fish. 
Of the same kind of huge fish, dvQpioTroepdyoi, does 
Amos speak in prophecy, ix, 3, “I will command the 
serpent from the bottom of the sea, and lie shall bite 
them” (Bochart, I/ieroz. i, e. 40, 1. 40). The difficulty 
that in the Sept, of Jonah, and in the Greek Testament 
(Matt, xii, 40), Kijrog is the word by which the fish 
is designated, is removed by the fact that this Greek 
term docs not specifically indicate whales only, as the 
objection supposes, but any of the larger inhabitants 
of the deep. (Wesseling’s Ilerodot. Fragm. de Incre- 
mento Nili , p. 789, as quoted in Yalpy’s Stephani Thes. 
s. v. K//rof ; here “ pisces ,” as well as il helium queelibet 
ingentes , veluti crocodiles et hippopotamus,” are in- 
cluded.) Accordingly kI/toq stands in the Sept., pas- 
sim , , for in, ns well as for **,“2 Pi (see Scbleusner, Lex. 
F. T. s. v. K ij-oc). Admiral Smyth, in the chapter 
on Ichthyology, in his Mediterranean , p. 190, says the 
white shark has been called it .fonm piscis” from its 
transcendent claim “to have been the great fish that 
swallowed the prophet, since lie can readily ingulf a 
man whole.” For more on the subject of this fish, see 
Kitto, Bill. Illustr. vi, 399-404, and Jonah. 9. Of To- 
ut’s fish, O. F. Fritzschc, in bis commentary on the 
passage (Tobit vi , passim) enumerates nine or ten spec- 
ulations by different writers. According to Bochart 
and Helvigius, the Silunts has the best claim. This 
the former describes as “ being very large, of great 
strength and boldness, and ever ready to attack other 
animals, even men, an inhabitant of the % rivers Eu- 
phrates and Tigris.” C. II. Smith, in the first edition 
of Kitto’s Cyclopedia , combats Bochart’s conclusions, 


and suggests “ the Sisar of the Indus, a crocodile, 
probably of the genus Gavial , which grows to a great 
size, is eaten, and has a gall bladder, still used to cure 
obstinate wounds ami deductions.” Glaire suggests 
the sturgeon , but this is more suitable to Northern riv- 
ers. Pennant mentions the capture of one in the Esk 
weighing 464 pounds ( British Zoology , iii, 127). See 
more in Bochart, JJieroz. v, 14 ; Glaire, Introduction de 
VAncien. et du X. T. ii, 91 [cd. 3], Paris, 1862, and To- 
bit. 10. If Dr. French and Mr. Skinner, in their 
Translation of the Psalms , arc right in rendering Psn. 
civ, 26, “There swinnneth the nautilus and the whale,” 
etc, (as if the sacred writer meant to indicate a small, 
though conspicuous, as well as a large aquatic animal, 
as equally the object of God’s care), we have in the 
PI’^X, aniyotlT , A. V. “ships,” an unexpected addi- 
tion to our Scripture nomenclature of fishes, in what 
lord Byron calls — 

“The tender Nautilus who steers his prow, 

The sea-born sailor of his shell canoe, 

The ocean 3Iab, the fairy of the sea.” — The Island. 

In their note the translators say, “ The Nautilus. — 
This little creature floats at pleasure upon the surface 
of the sea. Its shell resembles the hull of a ship, 
whence it has its name.” Mr. Thrupp accepts the 
j new rendering as having “ much apparent probability” 
( Introduction to the Psalms , ii, 178). Another recent 
expositor of the Psalms, J. Olshausen (Exeg. Ilandb. p. 
i 402), remarks that “ the introduction of ships amongst 
the living creatures of the sea has always presented an 
obstacle” to the understanding of the sentence. The 
paper nautilus (A rgvnavtd) frequents the Mediterra- 
nean. The verb proceed, walk, very well de- 

scribes the stately progress of the nautilus as it floats 
upon the wave. We may add that it gives greater fit- 
ness to the 27th verse, which at present is hardly com- 
patible with the 25th and 26th, owing to the intrusion 
of the clause, there go the ships. Replace this bv the 
nautilus , and the coherence of the 27th verse with the 
two preceding is complete in all its terms. 11. Our 
last specific fish is rather suggested than named in Ezek. 
xxix, 4, where the prophet twice mentions “the fish 
of the rivers which cleave to the scales” [of the croco- 
dile]. This description seems to identify this fish with 
the Echeneis remora, so remarkable for the adhesive 
* or sucking disc vhich covers the upper part of the 
head, and enables it to adhere to the body of another 
fish, or to the bottom of a vessel. (Its fabulous pow- 
. evs of being able even to arrest a vessel in her course 
arc recorded by Pliny, llist. Nat. xxxii, 1 ; it is men- 
tioned by Aristotle, Hist. Anim. ii, 14, i\fvriuv n, o ku- 
\ovai rivtg txtvi'jiFa. * It is also mentioned by Forskal 
as seen at Gidda, and by Ilasselquist at Alexandria). 
The lump-sucker ( Cyclopterus lumpvs) is furnished with 
ventral tins which unite beneath the body and form a 
j concave disc, by which the fish can with ease adhere 
to stones cr other bodies. Either in the remora, with 
j its adhesive apparatus above, or in the lump-sucker 
with a similar appendage below, or in both, we have in 
all probability the prophet’s fishes which cleave to the 
monster of the Nile. 

The species ef fishes known to the Hebrews, or at 
least to those who dwelt on the coast, were probably 
very numerous, because the usual current of the Med- 
I iterranean sets in, with a great depth of water, at the 
Straits of Gibraltar, and passes eastward on the Afri- 
can side until the shoals of the delta of the Nile begin 
to turn it towards the north ; it continues in that di- 
i rcetion along the Syrian shores, and fa 11s into a broken 
course only when turning westward on the Cyprian 
and Cretan coasts. Every spring, with the sun’s re- 
turn towards the north, innumerable troops of littoral 
species, having passed the winter in the offings of 
Western Africa, return northward for spawning, or are 
, impelled in that direction by other unknown laws. A 
small part only ascend along the Atlantic coast of 


FISH 


577 


FISH 


Spain and Portugal towards the British Channel, while 
the main bodies pass into the Mediteranean, follow the 
general current, and do not break into more scattered 
families until they have swept round the shores of Pal- 
estine. Lists of species of the fish frequenting various 
parts of the Mediterranean may be found in liisso {Ich- 
thyol. de Nice), who describes 315 species he had ob- 
served at Nice ; and in Adm. Smyth’s Mediterranean, 
where in the chapter on Ichthyology he gives a list of 
about 300 fishes haunting the waters of Sicily, besides 
240 Crustacea, testacea, and mollusks. Admiral Smyth 
remarks generally of the Mediterranean fish, that, 
“though mostly handsomer than British fishes, they 
are, for the most part, not to be compared with them in 
flavor” (p. 192-209). Professor E. Forbes (in his Re- 
port on sEgean Invertebrala) divides that part of the 
East Mediterranean, in which for many years he con- 
ducted his inquiries, into eight regions of depth, each 
characterized by its peculiar fauna. “ Certain spe- 
cies,” he says, “in each are found in no other; several 
are found in one region which do not range into the 
next above, whilst they extend to that below, or vice 
versa. Certain species have their maximum of devel- 
opment in each zone, being most prolific in individuals 
at that zone in which is their maximum, and of which 
they may be regarded as especial^ characteristic. 
Mingled with these true natives are stragglers, owing 
their presence to the secondar}' influences which mod- 
ify distribution.” The Syrian waters are probably not 
less prolific. The coasts of Tyre and Sidon would pro- 
duce at least as great a number. The name of the lat- 
ter place, indeed, is derived from the Phoenician word 
fish (see Gesenius, s. v. Sidon: the modern 

name has the same meaning, Saida ; Abulfar. Syria , p. 
93. See Sidon), and it is the oldest fishing establish- 
ment for commercial purposes known in history. The 
Hebrews had a less perfect acquaintance with the spe- 
cies found in the Red Sea, whither, to a certain extent, 
the majority of fishes found in the Indian Ocean re- 
sort. Besides these, in Egypt they had anciently eat- 
en those of the Nile (for the fish of the Nile, see Raw- 
linson’s Herodotus, ii, 119-121, and, more fully, Wilkin- 
son’s Ancient Egyptians, iii, 58; v, 248-251); subse- 
quently, those of the lake of Tiberias and of the rivers 
falling into the Jordan (Yon Iiaumer, Pa r astina , p. 105, 
after Hasselquist, mentions the Sparus Galliums, a sort 
of bream, the silurus and mugil; and Reuchlin, in Her- 
zog, after Dr. Barth, adds the Labrus Niloticus as inhab- 
iting this lake, which Stanley, Sinai and Palestine, p. 
375, represents as abounding in fish of all kinds [comp. 
John xxi, 11, with Matt, xiv, 17 and xv, 34]. From 
the earliest times — so said the Rabbinical legends — this 
lake had been so renowned in this respect [see Reland, 
p. 260, who quotes the Baba Baihra of the Babylonian 
Gemara], that one of the ten fundamental laws laid 
down by Joshua was, that any one might fish with a 
hook in the Sea of Galilee [see Lightfoot, Talm . Exer - 
cit. on Matt, iv, 8]. Two of the villages on the banks 
derived their name from their fisheries, the west and 
the east Bethsaida , “ house of fish” [compare the mod- 
ern name of Sidon just mentioned]. The numerous 
streams which flow into the Jordan are also described 
by Stanley as full of fish, especially the Jabbok, p. 
323) ; and they may have been acquainted w'ith spe- 
cies of other lakes, of the Orontes , and even of the Eu- 
phrates. The supply, however, of this article of food, 
which the Jewish people appear to have consumed 
largely, came chiefly from the Mediterranean. From 
Neh. xiii, 16, we learn that the Phoenicians of Tyre ac- 
tually resided in Jerusalem as dealers in fish, which 
must have led to an exchange of that commodity for 
corn and cattle. They must have previously salted it 
(in which form it is termed T\' mi b’Q in the Talmud; 
Lightfoot on Matt, xiv, 17) : the existence of a regular 
fish-market is implied in the notice of the fish-gate, 
which was probablv contiguous to it (2 Chron. xxxiii, 
III. — O o 


! 14 ; Neh. iii, 3 ; xii, 39 ; Zepli. i, 10). In addition to 
these sources, the reservoirs formed in the neighbor- 
hood of towns may have been stocked with fish (2 Sam. 
ii, 13 ; iv, 12 ; Isa. vii, 3 ; xxii, 9, 11 ; Cant, vii, 4, 
where, however, “fish” is interpolated in the A.V.). 

1 See Food. The most nutritious and common of the 
fishes which must have filled the Jewish markets were 
genera of Percadee (perch tribes) ; Scicenidce (much re- 
sembling the perches) ; and particularly the great tribe 
of the Scomber idee (mackerel), with its numerous gen- 
era and still more abundant species, frequenting the 
Mediterranean in prodigious numbers, and mostly ex- 
cellent for the table ; but being often without percepti- 
ble scales, they may have been of questionable use to 
the Hebrews. All the species resort to the deep seas, 
and foremost of them is the genus Thynnus, our tunny, 
a fish often mentioned with honor by the ancients, 
from Aristotle downward ; a specimen taken near 
Greenock in 1831 was nine feet in length. Its flesh is 
highly prized, and from its great solidity it partakes 
much of the character of meat. Although repeatedly 
taken on the English coast, it is really a native of the 
Mediterranean, where it abounds, not only in Sicilian 
waters, but, in three or four species, in the Levant. 
The following complete the catalogue : the Mugilidcn 
family (the sea mullets, mugiles, being valuable in ev- 
ery part of the Mediterranean), the Labridce (or Wrasse 
of Pennant), and Cyprinidc e (carps, particularly abun- 
dant in the fresh waters of Asia) ; after these may 
be ranged the genus Mormyrus , of which the species, 
amounting to six or seven, arc almost exclusively ten- 
ants of the Nile and the lake of Tiberias, and held 
among the most palatable fish which the fresh waters 
produce. Cat or sheat-fish ( Siluridee ) are a family of 
numerous genera, all of which, except the Loricarice, are 
destitute of a scaly covering, aud were consequently 
unclean to the Hebrews ; though several of them were 
held by the ancient Gentile nations and by some of 
the modern in high estimation, such as the blackfish, 
probably the shilbeh ( Silurus Shilbe Niloticus ) of the 
Nile, and others. Of salmons ( Salmonidce ), the Myletes 
dentex or Ilasselquisti belongs to the most edible fishes 
of the Egyptian river ; there were also Clupeidee (her- 
rings) and the Gadidce (or cod), these last being pres- 
ent about Tyre ; Pleuronectes (or flatfish) are found off 
the Egyptian coasts, and eel-shaped genera are bred 
abundantly in the lakes of the Delta. A comparison 
of this list with the enumeration of the ancient Egyp- 
tian fish given by Strabo (xvii, 823), or by Sir G. Wil- 
kinson in his Ancient Egyptians (iii, 58), will show ns 
that some of the fish which have to the present day 
preserved their excellent character as wholesome food 
(such as some species of the Percadee [e. g. the “gish- 
er”], and the Ldbridee [e. g. the “ biilti”], and the Cy- 
prinid'e [e. g. the “ benni ;” “ the carpe is a da} T ntous 
fisshe,” wrote old Leonard Maschal in 1514, when he 
introduced the fish into England]), were the identical 
diet which the children of Israel “remembered” so in- 
vidiously at Taberah, when they ungratefully loathed 
the manna (Numb, xi, 5). Finally, there are the car- 
tilaginous orders, where we find the file-fish (genus 
Balistes'), having a species {B. vetula ) in the waters of 
the Nile ; and true chondropterygians, containing the 
sharks, numerous in genera and species, both in the 
Mediterranean and Red Sea. We notice only Carcha- 
rius Lamia, the white or raging shark, often found of 
enormous size off Alexandria, and always attended by 
several pilot-fish ( Naucrates ), and the saw-fish ( Pristu 
antiquorum ), most dreaded by the pearl-fishers in the 
Persian Gulf, and which has been seen in the Red Sea 
pursuing its prey even into the surf, with such force 
and velocity that, on one occasion, half of a fish cut 
asunder by the saw flew on shore at the feet of an 
officer while employed in the surveying service. On 
rays we shall onl} r add that most of the genera are 
represented by species in either sea, and in particular 
the sting raj's ( Trigon ) and electric rays {Torpedo'), 


FISH 


578 


FISH 


with which we close our general review of the class, 
although many interesting remarks might be subjoin- 
ed, all tending to clear up existing misconceptions re- 
specting fishes in general — such as that cetaceans, or 
the whale tribe, belong to them; and the misapplica- 
tion of the term when tortoises and oysters are denom- 
inated fish; for the error is general, and the Arabs 
ven include lizards in the appellation. See Zoology. 


Ix^vojv ayovog trrriv). This epithet ay ovog is applied 
to the Dead Sea itself by Josephus, IFar, v, 4 (see Bo- 
chart, Jlieroz. i, 40). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See 
Dead Sea. 

FISH in Christian Symbolism. Of all the sym- 
bols used by the early Christians, none was more wide- 
ly used than that of the fish. It was employed as a 
metaphor in the writings of the fathers of the Church, 



Ancient Egyptians curing Fish. Fig. 1, splits them open, a , and removes the entrails, as at b, 6; 2, takes out the back- 
bone, d, and salts them from the pot, c; 3 and 4, bring them in whole, e,f, g. 


The extreme value of fish as an article of food 
[when cooked, or otherwise prepared as a relish, o\pci- 
<nov, lit. sauce~\ (our Lord seems to recognise this as 
sharing with bread the claim to be considered as a 
prime necessary of life, see Matt, vii, 9, 10) imparted 
to the destruction offish the character of a divine judg- 
ment (see Isa. 1, 2; Hosea iv, 3 ; Zeph. i, 3 ; compare 
with Exod. vii, 18, 21 ; Fsa. cv, 29 ; and Isa. xix, 8). 
This would especially be the case in Egypt, where the 
abundance of fish in the Nile, and the lakes and ca- 
nals (Strabo, xvii, p. 823 ; Diod. i, 36, 43, 52 ; Herod, 
ii, ?3, 149), rendered it one of the staple commodities 
of food (Numb, xi, 5 ; comp. Wilkinson, iii, 62). How 
fish is destroyed, largely" in the way of God’s judg- 
ment, is stated by Dr. E. Pococke on Hosea iv, 3, 
where he collects many conjectures of the learned, to 
which may be added the more obvious cause of death 
by disease , such as the case mentioned by Welsted 
( Travels in Arabia , i, 310) of the destruction of vast 
quantities of the fish of Oman by an epidemic, which 
recurred nearly every five years. St.John (Travels in 
Valley of the Nile , ii, 246) describes a vast destruction 
of fish from cold. Aristotle (Hist. Anim. viii, 19) men- 
tions certain symptoms of disease among fish as known 
to skilful fishermen ; but he denies that epidemics such 
as affect men and cattle fall upon them. In the next 
section he mentions the mullein plant (vcrbascv.ni, 7 r\6- 
poc ) as poisonous to fresh-water and other fish. Cer- 
tain waters are well known to be fatal to life. The 
instance of the Dead Sea, the very contrast of the 
other Jordan lakes so full of life, is well described by- 
Schwarz (Descriptive Geography of Palestine , p. 41-45), 
and by Stanley (Sinai and Palestine , p. 290-294), and 
more fully by De Sanlcy (Dead Sea , passim). Con- 
trast the present condition of this Sea of Death with 
the vitality which is predicted of it in the vision of 
Ezekiel (xlvii, 9, 10). Its healed waters and renova- 
ted fish ‘‘ exceeding many,” and “ the fishers which 
shall stand on it from Engedi even unto Eneglaim,” 
and “the places on its coast to spread forth nets” — all 
these features are in vivid opposition to the present 
condition of “the Asphaltic lake.” Of like remark- 
able import is 2 Esdr. v, 7, where the writer, among 
the signs of the times to come , predicts, “ The Sodomitish 
sea shall cast out fish.” For ancient testimonies of 
the death which reigns over this lake, see St. Jerome 
on Ezekiel, lib. xiv; Tacitus, Hist, v, 6; Diod. Sic. ii, 
48, and xix, 98 ; and the Nubian Geographer, iii, 5, as 
quoted hv Bochart, Uieroz. i, 40. But there are other 
waters equally fatal to fish life, though less kuown, 
such as the lake called Canondan (Avicenna, i. q. dyo- 
vov, irithout life), in Armenia, and that which yElian 
(Hist. Animal, iii, 38) mentions (») ce tv \tpvrj 


and was graven or painted as a secret sign upon mon- 
uments of all kinds. We do not speak, of course, of 
the fish introduced into arabesque ornamentation, or 
into the scenes drawn from the New Testament, nor of 
those cases where it was used upon tombs to indicate 
the calling of the deceased, but of those cases where it 
was used independently, and manifestly in a purely 
symbolical sense. Numberless examples are extant 
of its being thus used on tombstones, rings, seals, and 
amulets. It manifestly" bad two signilications, some- 
times referring to Christ, and sometimes to the Chris- 
tian Church. 

I. Referring to Christ, it was in familiar use as early 
as the 2d century". Its significance was drawn from 
the fact that the letters of i\6v£, the Greek word for 
fish, form the initials of the acrostic 'Igaovg, Xpiarue, 
0eof>, Tide, 'Z(jjT}]p (Jesus Christ , Son of God, Saviour'). 
The complete acrostic is found upon but one monu- 
ment, a tombstone. It is explained in the -writings of 
St. Augustine. Sometimes the entire word was used; 
in other cases there were but parts of it. The figure 
of a fish was very" frequently" cut or painted to repre- 
sent the Saviour. Fishes of glass or of bronze were 
often hung upon the necks of believers as amulets. 
Seals and rings often had other symibols also, as the 
anchor, the cross, and the A il. The fish was espe- 
cially" used on baptismal fonts and on the walls of bap- 
tisteries. A ship resting on a fish was used to indicate 
that Christ supports the Church. 

II. The fish represents the Christian in all artistic 
presentations of those parables where the apostles are 
spoken of as fishers of men. The fish, attached to a 
hook and line, with or without a fisherman, alway r s re- 
fers to the Christian, as do those representations of a 
number of fishes on pavements of churches, and on 
those tombstones where funeral inscriptions, as in pace, 
are added. Often two fishes are given, one on each 
side of an anchor or a cross. Many interpretations are 
given of this, the best established being the one that 
considers them as referring to the Jews and Gentiles, 
though much weight is attached to the interpretation 
which considers the two fishes to allude to the two cov- 
enants, the Jewish and the Christian. The baptiste- 
ries were therefore sometimes called piscince. Tertul- 
lian speaks of Christians as accustomed to please them- 
selves with the nam episciculi, ** fishes,” to denote that 
they" were born again into Christ’s religion by" water, 
lie say r s, Nos pisciculi secundum i\Qvv, nostrum Jesum 
Christum, in aqua nascimur (De Bapt. ch. i). 

The use of the fish as a symbol ceased almost en- 
tirely" with the death of Constantine the Great, though 
examples are found of it as late as the 5th or 6th cen- 
tury. — Rossi, De Christianis Monumentis IX0VN ex- 


FISH 


579 


FISH 


hlbentibus (Par. 1855) ; Martigny, Dictionnaire dts An - 
tiquites Chretiennes (Paris, 1865) ; Piper, Die christlkhe 
Kunst ; Becker, Die Darstellung Jesu Christi unter dem 
Bilde des Fisches (Breslau, 1866, 8vo) ; Didron, Chris- 
tian Iconography , i, 344; Bingham, Orig. Kecks, bk. i, 
eh. i, § 2. (G. F. C.) 

FISHING (!P?, dig; ciXuvttv'). The copious sup- 
ply of fish in the waters of Palestine encouraged the 
art or avocation of fishery, to which frequent allusions 
are made in the Bible : in the 0. T. these allusions are 
of a metaphorical character, descriptive either of the 
conversion (Jer. xvi, 16 ; Ezek. xlvii, 10) or of the de- 
struction (Ezek. xxix, 3 sq. ; Eccl. ix, 12; Amos iv, 
2 ; Hab. i, 14) of the enemies of God. In the N. T. 
the allusions are of a historical character for the most 
part (sec Thomson, Land and Boole , ii, 79), though the 
metaphorical application is still maintained in .Matt. 

xiii, 47 sq. It was from the fishing-nets that Jesus 
called his earliest disciples to “become fishers of men” 
(Mark i, 16-20) ; it was from a fishing-boat that he re- 
buked the winds and the waves (Matt, viii, 26); it was 
from a fishing-boat that he delivered his wondrous se- 
ries of prophetic parables of the kingdom of heaven 
(Matt, xiii); it was to a fishing-boat that he walked 
on the sea, and from it that Peter walked to him (Matt. 

xiv, 24-32) ; it was with fish (doubtless dried) as well 
as with bread that he twice miraculously fed the mul- 
titude (Matt, xiv, 19 ; xv, 36) ; it was from the mouth 
of a fish, taken with a hook, that the tribute-stater was 
paid (Matt, xvi, 27) ; it v r as “a piece of broiled fish” 
that he ate before his disciples on the day that he rose 
from the dead (Luke xxiv, 42, 43) ; and yet again, be- 
fore he ascended, he filled their net with “great fish- 
es, an hundred and fifty and three,” while he himself 
prepared a “fire of coals,” and “laid fish thereon,” on 
which then he and they dined (John xxi, 1-14). 

The most prevalent method of catching fish in 
use among the Hebrews was by nets of various kinds 
and sizes. Four of these are mentioned : two in Hab. 
i, 15, 16, Cin ( che'rem , Sept. dp<pijS\r](TTpov : no doubt 
in v, 16 this word and oayijvq have been by some 
means transposed; verse 17 compared with verse 15 
makes this evident), the casting-net, Matt, iv, 18 ( diKrv - 
ov ), and Mark i, 16; and JTHEEEI ( mikmereth , Sept. 
aayipn 7), the drag-net , a larger kind (see Matt, xiii, 
48), requiring the use of a boat : the latter was prob- 
nbly most used on the Sea of Galilee, as the number 
of boats kept on it was very considerable (Josephus, 
War, iii, 10, 9). The third occurs Eccl. ix, 12, iTTlSE 
(mitstsoduh' , Sept. dpcpifiXrjOTpojl), a casting-net. The 
fourth, nd'Ti ( re'sheth , Sept. 7 r«yq-), a foioler's net as 
well as a fsher's. In Psa. xxxv, 7, 8, the net , is 

used with niTr, a pit (“they have hid for me then- 
net in a pit”): the allusion would seem to be to that 
mode of winter-fishing which Aristotle describes as 
practised by the Phoenicians {Ilist. Animal, viii, 20). 
Net-fishing is still used on the lake of Tiberias (Dr. 
Pococke, Descrip, of the East , ii, 69). See Net. This 
mode of fishing prevailed in Palestine, and is a promi- 
nent feature of the piscatorial associations in the Gos- 
pel history to the very last (see John xxi, 6, 8, 11). It 
is certainly less characteristic of Egyptian fishing, of 
which we have frequent mention in the O. T. See 
Angling. The instruments therein employed were 
the PlEn (chakkah ' , Sept. dyKiarpoi^ comp. Matt, xvii, 
27), angling-hook , for smaller fish ; Isa. xix, 8 ; Hab. i, 
15. These hooks were (for disguise) made to resem- 
ble thorns (on the principle of the fly-fishing instru- 
ments, though not in the same manner ; for the Egyp- 
tians, neither anciently nor now, seem to have put 
winged insects on their hooks to attract their prey ; 
Wilkinson, iii, 54), and were thence called rvH^E, si- 
rot // , Amos iv, 2 (“ from their resemblance to thorns ” 
Gesenius, Lex. s. v.) ; and (in the case of the larger 


1 sort) Pl3p, sukkah ', A.V. “ barbed irons;” Job xli, 7 
[xl, 31]. Another name for these thorn-like instru- 
ments was m22S, tsinnoth ', Amos iv, 2 (a generic word, 
judging from the Sept., 07 r\n). mn, cho'ach, was 
either a hook or a ring put through the nostrils of fish 
to let them down again alive into the water (Geseni- 
us), or (it may be) a crook by which fishes were sus- 
pended to long poles, and carried home after being 
caught (such as is shown in plate 3-14 [from a tomb 
near the Pyramids] in Wilkinson, iii, 56). The word 
is used in Job xli, 2 [xl, 26] with “p -?»N, agnion , a 
cord of rushes (axoivog). Rosenmuller, ad loe., applies 
these two words to the binding of larger fish to the 
bank of the river until wanted, after they are captured, 
aud quotes Bruce for instances of such a practice iii 
modern Egyptian fishing. The rod was occasionally 
dispensed with (Wilkinson, iii, 53), and is not men- 
tioned in the Bible : ground-bait alone was used, fly- 
fishing being unknown. Though we have so many 
terms for the hook , it is doubtful whether any have 
come down to us denoting the line; and PEP, 

though the most nearly connected with piscatorial em- 
ployment, hardly express our notion of a line for ang- 
ling (see Gesenius, s. v.) ; while E^n and ( thread , 

twine ) arc.11 ever used in Scripture for fishing purposes. 
See Hook. The large fisli-spear or harpoon used for 
destroying the crocodile and hippopotamus was called 
DW islbx (Job xli, 7 [xl, 31] ; comp, with Wilkin- 
son, iii, 72, 73). ^>^11 means a cymbal or any clang- 



ing instrument, and this seems to have led to the be- 
lief of fishes being attracted and caught by musical 
sounds ; stories of such, including Arion and the dol- 
phin, are collected by Schelhorn in his Dissertatio at 
Jobi (Ugolini Thesaur. xxix, 329). “The 
Egyptian fishermen used the net; it was of a long 
form, like the common drag-net, with wooden floats 
on the upper and leads on the lower side; though 
sometimes let down from a boat, those who pulled it 
generally stood on the shore and landed the fish on a 
shelving bank” (Wilkinson, ii, 21). This net is men- 
tioned in Isa. xix, 8, under the name It is, 

however, doubtful whether this be anything more than 
a frame, somewhat between a basket and a net, resem- 
bling the landing-net represented in Wilkinson, iii, 55. 
The Mishna (vi, 76,116) describes it by the word “ppN, 
akun , nassa, corbis piscatoria, a basket. Maillet ( Epist . 
ix) expressly says that “ nets for fishing are not used 
in Egypt.” If this be so, the usage has much alter- 
ed since the times which Wilkinson has described. 
Frames for fishing, attached to stakes driven into the 
bottom, were prohibited in the lake of Tiberias, “be- 
cause they are an impediment to boats” (Talmudic 
Gloss, quoted by Lightfoot, Iloree Ilebr. on Matt, iv, 
18). No such prohibition existed in Egypt, where 
wicker-traps, now as anciently, are placed at the mouths 
of canals, by which means a great quantit} 5, of fish is 
caught (Kawlinson, Herod, ii, 232, note). The custom 
of drying fish is frequently represented in the sculp- 
tures of tipper and Lower Egypt (p. 127, note). There 
was a caste of fishermen ; and allusion to the artificial 
reservoirs and fish-ponds of Egypt occurs in the Proph- 


FISIIEI 


580 


FISHER 



Ancient Egyptians fishing with the Net and drying Fish in the rigging of the Boat. A kite sits upon the mast waiting for the 

entrails of the fish. 


ets (Isa. xix, 8-10). Fishing pavilions, apparently 
built on the margin of artificial lakes, also appear in 
the Assyrian sculptures (Layard’s Nineveh , i, 55). Ac- 



induced her to found St.John’s and Christ’s colleges. 
He was made divinity-professor in Cambridge, 1502, 
and bishop of Rochester, 1504. lie was a great ben- 
efactor to the University of Cambridge. He opposed 
the Lutheran reformation, and was supposed by some 
to be the real writer of Henry VIII’s book against Lu- 
ther ; and on Luther’s replying, lie wrote a Defence of 
the King of England's Assertion of the Catholic Faith . 
He continued in high favor with Henry VIII till lie 
opposed the king’s divorce, and to his honest views on 
this point he adhered unflinchingly. He remained un- 
molested till 1531, when he refused to take the oath of 
allegiance, and was committed to the Tower. He was 
attainted by Parliament November 3, 1534, and his 
bishopric was declared void January 2, 1535. He 
would probably have been permitted to remain quietly 1 " 
in prison during the rest of bis life had not Paul III, 
by making him, in May, 1535, cardinal -priest of St. 
Vitalis, angered the king, who issued orders that no 
person should be permitted to bring the bat into his 
dominions. Lord Cromwell, being sent to examine 
the bishop, asked him, “My lord of Rochester, what 
would yon say if the pope should send you a cardinal’s 
hat; would you accept of it?” The bishop replied, 
“Sir, I know myself to be so far unworthy any sueh 
dignity, that I think of nothing less: but if any such 
thing should happen, assure yourself that 1 should im- 
prove that favor to the best advantage that 1 could, 
in assisting the Holy Catholic Church of Christ, and 
in that respect I would receive it upon my knees.” 
When this answer was brought to the king b} r secre- 
tary Cromwell, Ilenrv said in a great passion, “Yea, 
is he yet so lusty ? Well, let the pope send him a hat 
when he will, Mother of God, he shall wear it on his 
shoulders then, for I will leave him never a head to set 
it on.” Fisher was convicted of high treason, and be- 
headed on Tower Hill, J unc 22, 1535. II is Life by Hai- 
ley is published with those of More, and Roper (Dub- 
lin, 1835, 7th edit.). There is also a Life by Lewis 
(Loml. 18G2, 2 vols. 8vo). His polemical and miscel- 
laneous writings will be found in the edition Opera J. 
Fisheri qnce hactemis inveniri potaenmt omnia (Wurtzb, 
1597, fob). “The character of Fisher is remarkable 
for firmness. In his steady maintenance of the fallen 
cause of queen Catharine, undaunted by the anger of 
the vindictive king, this quality peculiarly shone forth; 
and still more with regard to the oath of supremacy, 
refusal to take which was certain to call forth severe 
punishment, and in all probability death. Fisher was 
immovable, not being convinced that he was in the 
wrong; his fearless firmness allowed him to maintain 
an open profession that he was in the right. He was 
a learned and devout man, and his conduct fully proved 
his sincerity.” — Dupin, Eccles. Ilist . cent, xvi, p. 412; 
Burnet, Hist. Reform, ii, 248, 5G7 sq. ; Hook, Eccl. Hi - 
ography , v, 132. 

Fisher, Jonathan, a Congregational minister, 
was born Oct. 7, 17G8, at New Braintree, Mass. He 
graduated at Harvard College, 1792, entered the min- 
istry Oet. 1793, and was installed pastor at Blue Hill, 


cording to Aristotle (Hist. Anim. viii, 19), comp, with 
Luke v, 5, the night was the best time for fishing oper- 
ations : “before sunrise and after sunset.” — Kitto, s. 
v. ; Smith, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. 

Fisher (MH, davvag' , Jer. xvi, 1G [marg.] ; Ezek. 
xlvii, 10; or IPl, (layyag ', Isa. xix, 8; Jer. xvi, 16 
[text] ; Gr. a\itvQ, seaman or sailor, hence fisherman, 
as rendered Luke v, 2), a term used, besides its literal 
import [see Fishing, above], in the phrase “fishers of 
men” (Matt, xix, 1 ; Mark i, 17), as applied by our Sa- 
viour to the apostles (q. v.) in calling them to their 
office ; and in a like typical manner, lmt in an unfavor- 
able sense, the word occurs Jer. xvi, 1G. The applica- 
tion of the figure is obvious (see Wemyss, Symbolical 
Diet. s. v.). On the “fisher’s coat” (bTnv^vrgg^ John 
xxi, 7), see Coat. 

Fisher, Edward, an English Protestant theolo- 
gian, was born in 1597, and was educated at Oxford, 
where he became a gentleman commoner in 1G27. lie 
taught a school at Cacrmarthen, in Wales, and died in 
Ireland. lie was a strong Calvinist. His Marrow 
of Modern Divinity , published in 1G44, excited a vigor- 
ous controversy when republished in Scotland by Hogg 
(1718, 8vo). It went through numerous editions (12th 
ed. Loud. 1726, with notes by Thomas Boston, 2 vols. 
Svo). Fisher also wrote Appeal to the Conscience (Ox- 
ford, 1G44, 8vo): — Feast of Asses (1644, 4to) : — Caveat 
to the Sabbatarians (1G50, 4to). — Allibone, Dictionary 
,fA utkors , s. V-. ; Ilagenbach, J History of Doctrines , ed. 
Smith, ii, 431. See Marrow Controversy. 

Fisher, John, bishop of Rochester, was. born at 
Beverly, in Yorkshire, in 1459. He was educated at 
Michael House, Cambridge, of which house he became 
master in 1495; and being appointed confessor to Mar- 
garet, countess of Richmond, mother of Henry VII, he 


FISHER 


581 


FISK 


Ale., July 13,1796, where he labored until Oct. 24, 1837, 
and died Sept. 22, 1847. He published a volume of 
Miscellaneous Poems ; Scripture Animals; and a ser- 
mon. — Sprague, Annals , ii, 344. 

Fisher, Richard Adams, a minister of the Ger- 
man Reformed Church, was born in Berks Co., Pa., 
Oct. 25, 1805. Having finished his preparatory stud- 
ies under his own pastor, Rev. F. Herman, Jr., he be- 
gan the study of theology with Rev. Dr. Herman ; was 
licensed and ordained in 182G. He took charge of the 
German Reformed congregation in Sunburv, Pa., to- 
gether with several affiliated churches, in 1827, and 
continued in this field of labor till 1854, when failing 
health compelled him to resign. Recovering some- 
what, he labored a short time in Ly ken’s Valley, Dau- 
phin Co., Pa., where he died Jan. 27, 1857. Air. Fish- 
er had a good mind, was a logical and instructive 
preacher, a genial and kind friend, and was greatly be- 
loved throughout the church in w hich he labored. He 
preached well in both the German and English lan- 
guages. (II. H.) 

Fisher-Ring or Fisherman's Ring. See An- 

nulus. 

Fish-Gate nrd, sha' ar had-dugim ' , gate 

of the fishes; Sept. // 7 rv\i] 1 ) ix^viKt), in Nch. ?/ 7 tv\)) 
in Zeph. 7 rvXr) cnroKEvrovvTiov ; Vul g. porta 
piscium ), the name of one of the gates of Jerusalem 
(2 Chron. xxxiii, 14 ; Neh.iii, 3; xii, 39; Zeph. i, 10); 
probably on the east side, just north of the Temple en- 
closure (Strong’s Harm . and Expos, of the Gospels, Ap- 
pend. i, p. 18), although Bartlett (City of Great King , 
p. 153) locates it on the west side of the Temple, sup- 
posing it to have been near the mediceval “piscina” 
(p. 301) ; a very unsuitable position, as it doubtless de- 
rived its name from the fact that fish (q. v.) from the 
lake of Tiberias (or perhaps from the Mediterranean) 
were brought to the city by that route, or that they 
were sold there (Gesenius, Thes. p. 1054, who identifies 
if. with the present gate of St. Stephen). See Jerusa- 
lem. 

Fish-hook (in the plur. ilOT thorns [as 

often rendered] of fishing; Sept, at random Xk(3i}Tat 
Ep7rvpoi, Vulg. equally so olla> ferventes , both taking 
the term in the sense of pots, contrary to the synony- 
mous nisi*, “hooks,” of the other hemistich), used 
figuratively of an instrument of control (Amos iv, 2), 
after the analog}- of animals which u’cre tamed by put- 
ting bookstand rings in their noses (comp. Isa. xxxvii, 
29 ; Ezek. xxxix,4 ; Job xl,26 ; see Oedmann, Smnml. 
v, 5). Others, as Doderlein (in loc.), prefer to retain 
the simple meaning of thorns, as referring to pastoral 
customs. See Fishing. 

Fish-pool (n^na, berekah', a pool , as often else- 
where), a pond or reservoir in general ; presumed by 
our translators at Cant, vii, 4 to be intended for fish 
(q. v.), such as we know were anciently constructed 
for the purpose of pleasure angling. See Fishing 
(above). 

Fish-spear (O-W lit. a prong of fishes; 

Sept, and \ ulgate vaguely 7r\or« dXifuwr, gurgustium 
piscium ), a harpoon or trident for spearing fish (Job 
xli, 2 [in the Ileb. xi, 31]). See Fishing. 

Fisk, Ezra, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Shelburne, Alass., Jan. 10, 1785, graduated at 
"Williams College in 1809, and was licensed in 1810. 
After preaching for some months, lie was ordained as 
an evangelist, and labored chiefly among destitute 
congregations of Georgia; after which he engaged as 
missionary in Philadelphia. In 1813 he was chosen 
pastor of the Presbyterian church in Goshen, N. Y., 
w T here he continued for upwards of twenty years. He 
became a trustee of Williams College in 1823, and a 
director of the Theological Seminary at Princeton in 
1825 He retired to Georgia in 1832 for his health, 


and w r as appointed the following year professor of ec- 
clesiastical history and Church government in the 
Western Theological Seminary, and moderator of the 
General Assembly. He removed to Philadelphia, and 
died Dec. 5, 1833. He published An Oration delivered 
before the Society of Alumni of Williams College (1825) : 
— A Lecture on the Inability of Sinners (Phila. 1832) : — 
A Farewell Sermon (1833 ) : — Articles on Mental Science , 
in Church Advocate (1832). — Sprague, Annals , iv, 457. 

Fisk, Pliny, a Congregational minister and mis- 
sionary, was horn at Shelburne, Alass., June 24, 1792. 
lie graduated at Aliddlcbury College in 1814, studied 
theology at Andover, entered the ministry in January, 
1814, and preached for a time in Wilmington, A T t. 
Having determined to be a missionary, lie was, with 
Air. Levi Parsons, appointed by the American Board 
of Alissions to the Palestine mission in September, 
1818, and spent the winter travelling through the 
South, raising money for the missionary cause. With 
his colleague, he sailed from Boston for Smyrna, Nov. 
3, 1819, and arrived at their port Jan. 15, 1820. The 
two missionaries spent some time in Scio to study 
modern Greek, then visited the “seven churches” in 
Asia Alinor, and Anally settled in Smyrna. Early in 
1822 Air. Fisk accompanied Air. Parsons to Egypt, 
where the latter died, Feb. 10. Ilis successor, the 
Rev. J. King, met Air. Fisk at Alalta, and in April, 
1823, they went, together with Air. Wolff, by way of 
Egypt and the desert, to Judea. After visiting Jeru- 
salem and Beyrout, they visited the principal cities ill 
Northern Syria to “ spy out the land,” and spent some 
part of 1824 at Damascus and Aleppo studying Arabic. 
In Alay, 1825, he joined the mission already established 
at Beyrout, and died there on the 23d of October fol- 
lowing. See Bond, Life cf Pliny Fisk (Boston, 1828, 
12mo ). — American Miss. Memorial, p. 254; Sprague, 
Annals, ii, C22. 

Fisk, Samuel. See Fiskk, Samuel. 

Fisk, Wilbur, first president of the Wesleyan 
University, was born in Brattleboro, Yt., August 81, 
1792. His parents were of the old Puritan stock, and 
he was trained in habits of virtue and religion, espe- 
cially by his mother. In 1809 lie went to the Gram- 
mar School at Peacliam, and in 1812 to the University 
of Vermont, w r herc he passed A.B. in 1815. In 1818 
he entered the ministry of the Afethodist Episcopal 
Church, and soon became remarkable for piety and 
success in bis ministry. His talents as a preacher 
were of a very high order; indeed, lie has hardly been 
surpassed in this respect in the American pulpit. His 
health was feeble, however, from the beginning, and 
his unwearied labors in the itinerant ministry were 
too great for him. I 11 1823 he was made presiding 
elder of the Vermont district, and in 1824 was chosen 
delegate to the Vermont Conference, a rare distinction 
for so young a man. From this time onward his life 
was devoted to the cause of Christian education in the 
Methodist Episcopal Church. When he entered the 
ministry in 1818 “there was not a single literary in- 
stitution of any note under the patronage of the Church. 
A few years later, in 1824, he was appointed agent to 
collect funds for one which had been established in 
Newmarket, N. H. ; but he declined the service be- 
cause, as he said, it was not established on a perma- 
nent basis. Still be was anxious that one should be 
established, and through his efforts, with others, the 
academy at Wilbraham was commenced, and he was 
appointed its principal in 182G. The spirit which was 
thus aroused soon demanded an institution of a higher 
grade. The Northern and Eastern Conferences united 
to found the Wesleyan University at Aliddletown. 
and Dr. Fisk naturally, and without a rival, was cho- 
sen its president in 1830. The part he had already 
taken in awaking the people to the subject, his devo- 
tion to it, and his abilities, made him more than ever 
a leader in the cause of education in the Church. Stu- 


FISK 


582 


FISKE 


dents gathered to the institution from every part of 
the nation, and many soon went forth from it who, by 
his recommendation, became presidents, professors, 
and teachers in the rapidly multiplying colleges and 
seminaries under the patronage of the Church through- 
out the United States. His heart was in this work, 
lie believed, too, that he was where Providence de- 
signed him to be. And when, in 1863, he was elected 
bishop, he declined the office, for he said, ‘ If my health 
would allow me to perform the work of the episcopacy 
I dare not accept it, for I believe I can do more for the 
cause of Christ where I am than I could do as a bish- 
op.'' Who shall say that his decision was not only 
honest, but wise ; that his duties as an educator of the 
young, and the part he took in awaking the people to 
the great value of general education, were less impor- 
tant than the work of any bishop?” ( Centenary Memo- 
ries, in The Methodist, N. Y.). In 1828 he had been 
elected bishop of the Canada Conference, but declined 
the office. In 1829 he received the degree of D.D. from 
Brown University, and in the same year was elected 
president of Lagrange College, Alabama, and also pro- 
fessor in the University of Alabama, both which offices 
he declined. For many years his life was an inces- 
sant struggle with pulmonary disease, and in 1835-6 
he travelled in Europe for the benefit of his health. 
He died at Middletown, Feb. 22, 1838. Among his 
writings are, The Calvinistic Controversy (N. Y. 18mo) : 
— Travels in Europe (N. Y. 1838, 8vo) : — Sermons and 
Lectures on Universalism : — Reply to Pieipoinl on the 
Atonement , and other tracts and sermons. 

Dr. Fisk was a saintly man, of the type of Fenelon, 
and endowed with some of Fenelon’s best moral and 
mental traits — clearness and logical force ; flexibility 
and adroitness in controversy ; with earnest love of 
truth and goodness for the animating spirit of all his 
life and thought. As a preacher, few surpassed him 
in eloquence, none in fervor. As a teacher, he had 
that highest of all qualities, the power to kindle the 
enthusiasm of his pupils. Take him for all in all, he 
was a man of rare symmetry of character, moral and 
intellectual, of whom all whom he knew would be 
more willing to say, “Mark the perfect man, and be- 
hold the upright,” than of any man of his time who 
held so high a place. Dr. Stevens describes him as 
follows : u Wilbur Fisk’s person bespoke his character. 
It -was of good size, and remarkable for its symmetry. 
His features were beautifully harmonious, the contour 
strongly resembling the better Roman outline, though 
lacking its most peculiar distinction, the nasus aquili- 
nus . His eye was nicely defined, and, when excited, 
beamed with a peculiarly benign and conciliatory ex- 
pression. II is complexion was bilious, and added to the 
diseased indication of his somewhat attenuated feat- 
ures. 11 is head was a model, not of great, but of well- 
proportioned development. It had the height of the 
Roman brow, though none of the breadth of the Greek. 
There is a bust of him extant, but it is not to be looked 
at by any who would not mar in their memories the 
beautiful and benign image of his earlier manhood by 
the disfigurations of disease and suffering. His voice 
was peculiarly flexible and sonorous : a catarrhal dis- 
ease a fleeted it, but just enough, during most of his 
life, to improve its tone to a soft orotund, without a 
trace of nasal defect. Few men could indicate the 
moral emotions more effectually by mere tones. It 
was especially expressive in pathetic passages. Ilis 
pulpit manner was marked in the introduction of the 
sermon by dignity, but dignity’’ without ceremony or 
pretension. As he advanced into the exposition and 
argument of his discourse (and there were both in most 
of his sermons), he became more emphatic, especially 
as brilliant though brief illustrations ever- and anon 
gleamed upon his logic. By the time he had reached 
the peroration his utterance became rapid, his thoughts 
were incandescent, the music of his voice rang out in 
thrilling tones, and sometimes even quivered with 


trills of pathos. No imaginative excitement prevailed 
in the audience as under Maffitt’s eloquence, no tumul- 
tuous wonder as under Bascom’s, none of Cookman’s 
impetuous passion, or 01 in’s overwhelming power, but 
a subduing, almost tranquil spell of genial feeling, ex- 
pressed often by tears or half-suppressed ejaculations; 
something of the kindly effect of Summerfield com- 
bined with a higher intellectual impression. Fisk 
lived for many years in the faith and exenq lification 
of Paul’s sublime doctrine of Christian perfection. He 
prized that great tenet as one of the most important 
distinctions of Christianity. Ilis own experience re- 
specting it was marked by signal circumstances, and 
from the day he practically adopted it till he triumphed 
over death, its impress was radiant on his daily life. 
With John Wesley, he deemed this important truth — 
promulgated, in any very express form, almost solely 
by Methodism in these days — to be one of the most 
solemn responsibilities of his Church, the most potent 
element in the experimental divinity of the Scriptures” 
( Methodist Quarterly Review , July, 1852, p. 416). See 
Iloldich, Life of Wilbur Fisk (N. Y. 1840, 8vo) ; Meth- 
odist Quarterly , 1842, p. 579; Sherman, New-England 
Divines , p. 238; M‘Clintoek, Lives of Methodist Minis- 
ters (N. Y. 8vo ; sketch of Fisk by the Rev. O. H. Tif- 
fany, D.D.) ; Sprague, Annals, vii, 576 ; Stevens, His- 
tory of the Methodist Episcoped Church ; Christian Re- 
view, J uly 9, 1868 ; Zion's Herald , vii, 400 sq. See also 
New England Theology. 

Fiske, John, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born Oct. 26, 1770, in Warwick, Mass. He grad- 
uated at Dartmouth College, 1791 ; entered the minis- 
try May 6, 1794 ; and was ordained pastor in New 
Braintree Oct. 26, 1796, where he remained until his 
death, Mar. 15, 1855. Dr. Fiske assisted largely in the 
founding of Amherst College. He published a Spell- 
ing-book (1807), and two sermons. — Sprague, Annul , 
ii, 367. 

Fiske, Nathan Welby, an eminent Congrega- 
tional minister, was born April 17, 1798, at Weston, 
Mass, lie graduated at Dartmouth College 1817 ; was 
chosen tutor 1818, in which position he remained two 
years, and then entered the Theological Seminary at 
Andover. In Nov. 1823, he went to Savannah, and 
preached among the seamen and others not belonging 
to any church. He was chosen professor of languages 
in Amherst Collegiate Institution (afterwards Amherst 
College), 1824. A few years after, he was transferred 
to the chair of intellectual and moral philosophy, which 
he held until his death. In 1846, on account of ill 
health, he sailed (Nov. 5) for Palestine, and died in 
Jerusalem May 27,1847. Mr. Fiske published a trans- 
lation of Eschenburg’s Manned of Classical Literature 
(1836), which went through three editions, and was 
stereotyped for the fourth ed. (1813). A volume of his 
Sermons was published in 1850, and also Memoirs of 
N. IF. Fiske , with Selections from his Sermons and other 
Writings, by Heman Humphrey, D.D. (Amherst, 1850). 
The New Englander (Feb. 1850, p. 70) speaks of his ser- 
mons as follows : “ They are eminently suggestive. 
Some of them, like that on ‘ the analysis of conscience,’ 
are fine specimens of philosophical analysis. Some, 
like that on ‘the wonderfulness of man’s mental con- 
stitution,’ and that on ‘the fearfulness of man’s men- 
tal constitution,’ lead the reader over a track almost 
untrodden by sermonizers, and yet presenting grounds 
for most powerful appeals. No thinking mind can fail 
to be enriched by the attentive reading of these dis- 
courses. They belong in many respects to the class 
of bishop Butler’s sermons ; yet with the bishop’s 
strong reasoning and clear analysis of principles, they 
have much more of the direct and powerful application 
of the truth to 'the conscience, and are more imbued 
■with the very essence of the doctrines of the cross,” 

Fiske, Samuel, a Congregational minister, was 
born in Shelburne, Mass., July 23, 1828, and was edu- 


FISIvE 


583 


FITCHES 


cated at Amherst College, where he graduated in 1848. 
After two years spent in teaching, he studied theology 
at Andover until 1852, when he became tutor at Am- 
herst, where he remained until 1855, when he sailed 
for Europe and the East. His letters describing this 
journey were collected under the title of Mr. Dunn 
Browne's Experiences in foreign Parts (Boston, 1857, 
12ino), and abound with wit, humor, and graphic pow- 
er. In 1857 he was ordained pastor of the Congrega- 
tional church at Madison, Conn., where lie was re- 
markably useful and successful. During the Civil \V*ar 
his patriotism led him to join the army ; and failing to 
secure a chaplaincy, he entered the service as private, 
but soon rose to be captain. While in service he wrote 
Mr. Dunn Brown's Experiences in the Army (Boston, 
18G6, 12mo). Made prisoner at Chaneellorsville, lie 
spent some time in Libby prison, Richmond. lie fell 
in the first battle of the Wilderness, May 6, 18G4. His 
Christian life in the army was kept up as at home, and 
he was more than a chaplain could be to his men. 

lie was a Christian officer, illustrating in camp, and 
on the march, and in battle the noblest Christian char- 
acter. He decidedly rebuked all the vices of the army; 
he gently soothed the sick and wounded, prayed with 
the dying and over the dead. Touching memories of 
him have been recalled in our hospitals at the mention 
of his name. ‘ Oh,’ said one in Washington, ‘ he is the 
man who put his arm around me so kindly, and begged 
me to promise him that I would never utter another 
oath, and 1 never have.’ Said another : ‘ Captain Fiskc 
— oh yes ; he helped me off the field after that dreadful 
battle, gave me his blanket, and spoke kind words of 
cheer that helped to keep me alive.’ Multitudes could 
testify of his fidelity to them. It was his daily duty 
to care both for the bodies and the souls of all about 
him.” — New Englander , January, 18G6, art. iv ; Congre- 
gational Quarterly , 18G6, art. i. 

Fistulae, pipes or reeds used in the administration 
of the wine in the Eucharist from the 8th. century to 
the 12th. The deacon held the eup in his own hand, 
a small reed or pipe was introduced into the wine, and 
the communicant drew up the wine into his mouth 
through this pipe. The object was to prevent the pos- 
sibility of spilling any of the wine. 

Fitch, Ebenezer, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
and president of Williams College, Mass., was born in 
Norwich Sept. 26, 1756, and graduated in Yale in 1777. 
After teaching for some time in Hanover, N. Y., he be- 
came tutor in Yale, and remained there till 1783, when 
he formed a mercantile connection, which proving dis- 
astrous, he returned to his former office, to which was 
added that of librarian. He was licensed to preach in 
1787, and in 1701 became preceptor of the academy in 
Williamstown, Mass., of which, with the title of Wil- 
liams College, he was appointed president in 1793. 
He resigned in 1815, and was installed pastor of the 
Presbyterian church, West Bloomfield, N. Y., which 
lie resigned in 1828, after a zealous and efficient min- 
istry. He died March 21, 1833. He published A Bac- 
calaureate Discourse , 1790. — Sprague, Annals, iii, 511. 

Fitches (i. e. Vetches or chick-pea), the incorrect 
rendering, in the Auth. Vers., of two Heb. words. See 
Botany. 

1. ( ke'tsach , something strewn ), which occurs 

only in Isa. xxviii, 25, 27, where especial reference is 
made to the mode of threshing it ; not with “ a thresh- 
ing instrument,” j’fnn), but “with a staff” 

(•" 112 * 9 ), because the heavy-armed cylinders of the for- 
mer implement would have crushed it. Although 
ketsach , in Chaldee £<n:£p (Buxtorf, Lex. Tahn. col. 
2101), is always acknowledged to denote some seed, 
yet interpreters have had great difficulty in determin- 
ing the particular kind intended, some translating it 
peas , others, as Luther and the English version, vetch- 
es, but without any proof. Meibomius considers it to 


be the white poppy, and others a black seed. This last 
interpretation has the most numerous, as well as the 
oldest authorities in its support. Of these a few are 
in favor of the black poppy-seed, but the majority of a 
black seed common in Egypt, etc. (Celsius, Jlierobot. 
ii, 70). The Sept, translates it ptXdvQiov, the Vulg. 
gith (perhaps from the Heb. ^3, coriander ; see Plau- 
tus, Rud. v, 3, 39), and Tremellius melunthium, while 
the Arabic has shunez. All these mean the same 
thing, namely, a very black-colored and aromatic 
seed, “ fennel-flower ” or “ black cumin," still cultiva- 
ted and in daily employment as a condiment in the 
East. Thus Pliny (xx, 17,71), 11 Gith, from the Greeks, 
others call melanthion , and still others melanspcrmon. 
The best is that of the most pungent smell, and black- 
est.” By Dioseorides (iii, 93), or the ancient author 
who is supposed to have added the synonymes, we are 
informed that ptXavQiov was also called the “ wild 
black poppy,” that the seed was black, acrid, and ar- 
omatic, and that it was added to bread or cakes. Pliny 
also says, “ The seed of the melanthium or melansper- 
mum makes an excellent confection in the loaves” 
(xix, 8). Melanthium is universally recognised by 
botanists to be the Nigella. Thus Banhin Pinax, 

“ Nigella, from the black color of the seed, is common- 
ly called fttXdvOiov." The shunez of the Arabs is, 
moreover, the same plant or seed, which is usually <1 
called “black cumin.” So one kind of cumin is said 
by Dioseorides to have seeds like those of melanthion 
or nigella. It was commonly cultivated in Egypt, 
and P. Alpinus mentions it as “Suneg Egyptiis.” 
The Arabs, besides shunez, also call it hub-al-souda, and 
the Persians seah dana, both words signifying black 
seed. One species, named Nigella Jndica by Dr. Rox- 
burgh, is called kalajira in India, that is, black zira 
or cumin, of the family of Ran uneu lace nj. “ NigeHci 
sativa is alone cultivated in India, as in most Eastern 
countries, and continues in the present day, as in the 
most ancient times, to be used both as a condiment 
and as a medicine” (Must, llimal. But. p. 46). If we 
consider that this appears to have always been one of 
the cultivated grains of the East, and compare the 
character of nigella with the passages in which ketsach 
is mentioned, we shall find that the former is applica- 
ble to them all. Indeed, Rabbi Obadias de Bartenora 
states that the barbarous or vulgar name of the ketsach 
was nielle, that is, nigella. The Nigella sativa is a gar- 



den plant, which commonly attains the height of an 
ell, with narrow leaves, like the leaves of fennel , a blue 
flower, out of which is formed, on the very top of the 
plant, an oblong murieate capsule, the interior of 
which is, by means of thin membranes, separated into 
compartments containing a seed of a very black color 
not unlike the poppy, but of a pleasant smell, and a 
sharp taste not unlike pepper. The various species 
of nigella are herbaceous (several of them being indig- 


FIVE-MILE ACT 


584 


FLACIUS 


enous in Europe, others cultivated in most parts of 
Asia), with their leaves deeply cut and linear, their 
flowers terminal, most of them having under the calyx 
leafy involucres which often half surround the flower. 
The’ fruit is composed of live or six capsules, which 
are compressed, oblong, pointed, sometimes said to be 
hornlike, united below, and divided into several cells, 
and enclosing numerous angular, scabrous, black-col- 
ored seeds. From the nature of the capsules, it is ev- 
ident that, when they are ripe, the seeds might easily 
be shaken out by moderate blows of a stick, as is re- 
lated to have been the case with the kttsach of the 
text. See Threshing. 

Besides the N. sativa , there is another species, the 
N. arvensis , which may be included under the term 
ketscich ; but the seeds of this last-named plant are less 
aromatic than the other. They are annual plants be- 
longing to the natural order Eanuncidaceee, and sub- 
order IhlleborecE. The nigella forms a singular excep- 
tion among the family to which it belongs, inasmuch 
as they are terrible poisons, while the nigella produces 
seeds that are not only wholesome and aromatic, but 
are in great reputation for their medicinal qualities. 
See Aromatics. 

2. In Ezek. iv, 9, “fitches” are mentioned among 
the materials of the bread the prophet w'as bidden to 
§ make, but there it represents the Heb. word 

kusse'meth. This word is incorrectly translated in A. 
V. “rye” (q. v.) in Exod. ix, 32, and Isa. xxviii, 25; 
but in the latter place, as in Ezek. iv, 9, we have the 
marginal reading “spelt,” which is the true rendering 
of the word. The root of is C33, to shear, 

and the species of corn to which it gives a name is the 
Triticum spelta of Linmeus — in Greek £*« ; in Latin 
far and ador . “ Spelt has a four-leaved blunted calix, 
small blossoms, with little aw ns, and a smooth, slender 
ear (as it were shorn), the grains of which sit so firmly 
in the husks that they must be freed from them by pe- 
culiar devices ; it grows about as high as barley, and 
is extensively cultivated in the southern countries of 
Europe, in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine, in more than 
one species. The Sept, translate it by oXvpct, in Pliny 
arinca, which corresponds with the French riguet ; and 
Herodotus (ii, 3G) observes that it was used by the 
Egyptians for baking bread” (Kalisch on Exod. ix, 32). 
— Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Cereals. 

Five-mile Act, or Oxford Act, an act of the 
British Parliament, passed in 1GG5, which imposed an 
oath on all nonconformists, binding them at no time 
to endeavor any alteration of the government in either 
Church or State ; and ordering that nonconforming min- 
isters should neither live in, nor come within fire miles 
(except in crossing the road) of any borough, city, or 
corporate town, or within five miles of any parish, 
tow n, or place in which they had been, since the Act 
of Oblivion, parson, vicar, or lecturer, under a penalty 
of forty pounds, or six months’ imprisonment, and be- 
ing rendered incapable of teaching any school, or tak- 
ing any boarders to be taught or instructed. — Baxter, 
Church History of England , ii, G32 ; Neal, History of 
the Puritans (Harpers’ ed.), ii, 255. 

Five Points, the five doctrines controverted be- 
tween the Calvinists and Arminians, viz. predestina- 
tion, extent of the atonement, grace, free-will, and final 
perseverance. The quinquarticular controversy in Eng- 
land was a dispute which arose at Cambridge in 1594 
respecting the above points. In 1G2G two fruitless 
conferences were held on these points; and in 1G30 
bishop Davenant preached at court on these disputed 
matters, and thereby gave great offence to Charles I. 
The next year the controversy was revived at Oxford 
and in Ireland, of which archbishop Usher was then 
primate. The king issued certain injunctions concern- 
ing the hounds within which these points might he 
discussed. See Aksiinianism ; Calvinism ; Dost. 


Flaccus, Cauls Norbanus (Graecized rdioff Ndp- 
(3avog $>\aiacoQi Josephus, Ant. xvi, G, G), son of a 
somewhat notable consular Homan of the same name 
(see Smith’s Diet, of Class. Biogr. s. v.), was consul 
with Octavianus in A.D. 51 (Tacitus, Ann. i, 54; Sue- 
ton. Vit. 3). While proconsul of Asia Minor, he pro- 
mulgated the emperor’s decrees to the provincial mag- 
istrates in favor of the Jew s (Joseph. Ant. xvi, G, 3-G) ; 
and w r hen praeses of Syria he befriended Herod Agrip- 
pa till influenced by Aristobulus (ib. xviii, G, 2-3). 

Flacians, a name given to those who adhered, in 
the controversies among the German reformers, to 
Matthias Flacius (q. v.). 

Flacius ( Flach ), Matthias, also called Illy in- 
cus from his native country, an eminent Lutheran re- 
former, was born at Alboua, in Illyria, about 1520. At 
sixteen he proposed entering a convent, but Baldo Lu- 
petino, the provincial of the Franciscans, who had im- 
bibed Protestant tendencies, advised him to study the- 
ology in the universities of Germany. Accordingly 
he went to Basle in 1539, to Tubingen in 1540, and in 
1541 to Wittenberg, where he gave private lessons in 
Greek and Hebrew. In his travels he became ac- 
quainted with Grynaius, Leonard Fuchs, Eber, and 
finally with Luther himself, whose zealous disciple lie 
soon became. He was after a while appointed pro- 
fessoT of O.-T. literature at Wittenberg, but, driven 
away by the issue of the Smalcaldic War in 1547, he 
went to Brunswick. Recalled by prince Maurice, lie 
came back, but, having opposed Melancthon’s Leipsic 
Interim [see AmArnoRA and Interim], he went to 
Hamburg, and thence to Magdeburg, whence he pub- 
lished several writings against the Interim , though in 
other points, especially in the Osiandrian controversy, 
he sided with Melnncthon. He was also for several 
years engaged in theological controversies with Major, 
Strigel, Schwenkfeld, etc. See Synergistic Contro- 
versy. About the same time he projected the Mag- 
deburg Centuries [see Centuries], of which great work 
he was the life and soul. In 1557 he was made profess- 
or of the newly-organized University of Jena, which 
became the stronghold of strict Lutheranism, and where 
he was chiefly instrumental in the drawing up of the 
Sdrhsische Confutationsschrift , to enforce Lutheran 
views. It, however, proved injurious both to the uni- 
versity and to himself, as it led the duke to establish a 
censorship, to which Flacius and his colleagues were un- 
willing to submit, and were dismissed in 15G1. lie had 
made himself especially odious by the rash statement 
(in his discussion with Strigel at Weimar, 15G0) that 
original sin is the very substance of man in his fallen 
state. lie was accused, therefore, of Maniclueism. Af- 
ter spending five years in Regensburg, he accepted a 
call to Antwerp, and from thence to Frankfort and 
Strasburg. Obliged to leave the latter city on account 
of his opinions, he returned to Frankfort, where lie 
died in the hospital in 1575. 

The career of Flacius w T as, on the whole, a stormy 
and unhappy one. But, after all the abuse that has 
been heaped upon him, it cannot be denied that he 
was a consistent upholder of the doctrines which 
he learned originally from Luther. The writers in 
the Reformed interest have generally treated him too 
severely ; an unfavorable view of him is given by 
Planck, Geschichte des Protestant. Lehrbegrijfs. The 
best account of him is to be found in Pregcr, Mat- 
thias Flacius Illyncus u. seine Zeit (Erlangen, 1859-G1, 
2 vols.), from a notice of which, in the Bibliotheca Sa* 
era (18G2, p. 22G), we make the following extracts: 
“ If it was right for a sincere follower of Luther to es- 
pouse the cause of his deceased friend and teacher, and 
to show' by the severest logic that the Lutheran Church 
was, under Melancthon’s guidance, drifting away from 
its moorings, then Flacius is to be exonerated from the 
charge of uncharitableness, and his plea must he al- 
lowed, that the unhappy division was net chargeable 


FLACIUS 


585 


FLAG 


to him who defended the old Wittenberg theology, but ] 
rather to him who introduced innovations. We say I 
nothing now about the truth of the one or the other 
view ; we only remark that Flaeius was the undoubted 
champion of the genuine theology of Saxony, as taught 
by Luther. We cannot, therefore, uphold Luther and 
condemn Flaeius. In theology we cannot say that 
what Luther, as the first reformer, had a right to teach, 
Flaeius, his inferior in authority, had not a right to 
maintain against so great a man as Melancthon ; for 
the theologian swears allegiance not to men, but to 
principles. Flaeius could justly reply to all who thus 
reproached him, that if Melancthon was great, truth 

was greater But how stands the matter as it 

affects the intellectual and moral character of the two 
chief combatants? Flaeius elearly had Luther’s great 
authority on his side, and that was enough for him. 
Melancthon saw that the Genevan and Strasburg the-' 
ologians entertained clearer and more scriptural views 
of the subject than Luther and the party of Flaeius. 
With him the authority of Luther was not final. Ac- 
cording to Flaeius, all questions of theology and church 
usages were to be decided by the authority of the Bible 
and of Luther . According to Melancthon, they were 
to be decided by the authority of the Bible and of rea- 
son. Both were sincere and deeply in earnest. Both 
make out their points by irresistible logic. Schmidt, 
in the new Life of Melancthon just published by him, 
vindicates Melanethon’s character in this controversy 
triumphantly. Preger has done the same for Flaeius. 
Flaeius shows more firmness and tenacity, Melanc- 
thon more conciliation and forbearance. The former 
had such a reverence for truth, or for what seemed to 
be truth, that he forgot the respect due to a great and 
good man. He was mercilessly but conscientiously 
contentious. The latter was so amiable and fond of 
peaee that he would for the sake of it yield what he 
might have maintained. He was never a polemic, ex- 
cept by necessity It is a somewhat remarkable 

fact that Flaeius was incessantly persecuted, and often 
driven from place to place for teaching exactly what 
Luther taught. He was evidently a tenacious man, 
and born to be a polemic ; but, notwithstanding his 
bad name for disputatiousness, lie was far less violent 
and abusive in bis language than his opponents, and 
more measured and unimpassioned than Luther. It 
was the sharpness of his logic, and the unsparing se- 
verity with which he exposed to the light of day any 
deviation from Luther, that so galled his opponents. 
They charged him, and perhaps not unjustly, with as- 
suming to be the guardian of the Church. lie did, in- 
deed, endeavor to persuade princes and magistrates to 
watch over the purity of Christian doctrine, and con- 
fessed that he ealled every man to aceount, no matter 
what his rank or position was, who either openly or 
secretly attempted to destroy what Luther had built 
up. At the same time, he affirmed that he did it as a 
faithful son of the Chureh, doing only what every one 
was bound to do, namely, to guard its purity with all 
the power and skill he possessed. lie furthermore 
maintained that, as the pupil and friend of Luther, he 
owed it to his memory to defend him and his doetrines 
against all assaults, even though they were made at 
Wittenberg itself, and by no less a man than Melanc- 
thon. He was undoubted!}' governed by conscientious 
motives, however lie may have erred both in matters 
of doetrine and of expediency ; but when he trusted 
in princes to preserve the orthodoxy of the Chureh, he 
found, to his grief, that he trusted to a broken reed. 
Though unfortunate in his life, and a wanderer and 
fugitive in his old age, and apparently unsuccessful 
in the chief aim of his life, still he ranks third among 
the men of his age in his influence upon the doetrines 
of the old Lutheran Church. He ha**, indeed, been 
long almost forgotten, except as an ecclesiastical histo- 
rian.” The eliief writings of Flaeius are Omnia Scrip- 
ta Latina contra adiaphoristicas J raudes edita (Magde- 


I burg, 1550, 8vo) : — Osiandri de Justificatione Refutatte 
I (Francf. 1552, 4to): — Catalogns Testium Vcntatis , etc. 
(Bale, 1556 ; Francf. 1674, 4to) : — Unan. Prim. Ecclesice 
consensus de non scrutando divince generation is Filii Dei 
modo (Bale, 1660, 8vo) : — Histona certaminum de pri- 
matu Papce (Bale, 1554, 8vo) : — Claris Scnptune Sacrce 
(Bale, 1567, 4to ; Jena, 1675, fol. ; a valuable Bibli- 
cal and hermeneutical dictionary). See, besides the 
works already noticed, Twesten, M. Flaeius IUyricus 
(Berlin, 1844); Adami, Vitce Theolog. Germ . ; Hoofer, 
Xouv. Biogr. Generate, xvii, 808 ; Herzog, Rcal-Ency- 
klopddie, i v, 410 sq. ; Heppe, Die confess. Entwickelang 
der altprotest. Kirche Deutschlandi (Marburg, 1854) ; 
Studien u. Kritiken , 1855, 648; Schmidt, in Zeitschrifk 
f. d. histor. Theologie, 1849; Dorner, Gcschichte d.prot. 
Theologie (Hiinehen, 1867, 8vo), 361-374 ; Gieseler,C%. 
History , ed. Smith, vol. iv, § 37 ; and the articles Aui- 
apiioristic Controversies; Synergistic Contro- 
versy. 

Flag (as the name of a plant) stands in the Autli. 
Vers, as the representative in part of two Heb. words. 
See Botany. 

1. Ac/m'^nX; Sept.Grsecizes d\i, a\ti, fiovropov \ 
Yulg. locus palustris, carectum ), a word, according to 
Jerome ( Comment . in Isa. xix, 7), of Egyptian origin, 
and denoting “any green and coarse herbage, such as 
rushes and reeds, which grows in marshy places” 
(comp. Gesenius, Thes. Heb. p. 67). In Job viii, 11, it 
is asked, “Can the achu (“ flag”) grow without wa- 
ter?” It seems probable that some specific plant is 
here denoted, as Celsius lias endeavored to prove (. Hi - 
erob. i, 342), for the achu is mentioned with the gome 
or “ papyrus.” See the treatise of Happoch, De pa - 
pyro, etc. (Coburg, 1772; with the A dditament. ib. 
1777). The word occurs once again in Gen. xli, 2, 18, 
where it is said that the seven well-favored kine came 
up out of the river and fed in an achu (“meadow”). 
Now it is generally well known that most of the 
plants whieli grow in water, as well as many of those 
which grow in its vicinity, are not well suited as food 
for cattle ; some being very watery, others very coarse 
in texture, and some possessed of acrid and even poi- 
sonous properties. None, therefore, of the Algos can 
be intended, nor any species of Butomus , or “flower- 
ing rush” (as might be inferred from one rendering of 
the Sept.). The different kinds of Juncus, or rush, 
though abounding in sucli situations, are not suited 
for pasturage, and, in fact, are avoided by cattle. So 
are the majority of the Cgperacece , or sedge tribe ; and 
also the numerous species of Carer, which grow in 
moist situations, yet yield a very coarse grass, which 
is scarcely if ever touehed by cattle. A few species 
of Cyperus serve as pasturage, and the roots of some 
of them are esculent and aromatic ; but these must he 
dug up before cattle can feed on them. Some species 
of Scirpus, or elub-rush, however, serve as food for cat- 
tle : S. cespitosus , for instance, is the principal food of 
cattle and sheep in the highlands of Scotland from the 
beginning of March till the end of May. Varieties of 
S. maritimus, found in different countries, and a few 
of the numerous kinds of Cyperacete common in In- 
dian pastures, as Cyperus dubius and hexastachyus, are 
also eaten by cattle. Therefore, if any specific plant 
is intended, as seems implied in what goes before, it is 
perhaps one of the edible speeies of seirpus or cyperus, 
perhaps C . esculcntus , which, however, has distinet Ar- 
abic names: or it may be a true grass; some speeies 
of panieum, for instance, whieli form excellent pasture 
in warm countries, anti several of which grow luxuri- 
antly in the neighborhood of water. But it is well 
known to all acquainted with warm countries subject 
to excessive drought that the only pasturage to which 
cattle can resort is a green strip of different grasses, 
with some sedges, which runs along the banks of riv- 
ers or of pieees of water, varying more or less in 
breadth according to the height of the bank, that is, 


FLAG 


FLAG 586 



the distance of water from the surface. Cattle emerg- 
ing from rivers, which they may often be seen doing 
in hot countries, would naturally go to such green 
herbage as intimated in this passage of Genesis, and 
which, as indicated in Job xviii, 2, could not grow 
without water in a warm, dry country and climate. 
Ivitto (Piet. Bib. on Genesis, 1. c.) identifies this sedge 
with the f.ta\iva9a\\i] of Theophrastus (Hist. Plant. 
iv, 8, 12), which plant was much eaten by sheep and 
cattle. There is, however, much doubt as to what the 
malinathnlla denotes, as Schneider has shown. The- 
odotion, in Job viii, 11, has «yt ; and occurs in the 
Sept. (Isa. xix, 7) also as the representative of 
(A. V. “paper reeds”), which word is explained by 
Gesenius, naked places without trees — the grassy 
places on the banks of the Nile. The same Greek 
word is used by the son of Sirach, Eccles. xi, 1G (u\t 
or ayft, for the copies vary). As no similar name is 
known to be applied to any plant or plants in Hebrew, 
endeavors have been made to find a similar one so ap- 
plied in the cognate languages (see Jablonski, Opusc. 
i, 45 ; ii, 150, ed. Te- Water), and, as quoted by Dr. 
Harris (A hit. Hist, of the Bible , s. v.), the learned Cha- 
pellon says, “We have no radix for unless we de- 
rive it, as Schultens does (Comment, in Job , 1. e.), from 
the Arabic achi, to bind or join together.” Hence it 
has been inferred that it might be some one of the 
grasses or sedges employed in former times, as some 
still are, for making ropes. But there is probably 
some other Arabic root which has not yet been as- 
certained, or which may have become obsolete ; for 
there are numerous words in the Arabic language hav- 
ing reference to greenness, all of which have akh as a 
common element. Thus akhyas, thickets, dark groves, 
places full of reeds or flags, in which animals take 
shelter; akhevas, putting forth leaves; so akhzirar , 
greenness, verdure ; akhchishnb , abounding in grass. 
These may be connected with hah, a common term for 
grass in Northern India, derived from the Persian, 
whence amber is called kah-robehy , grass-attracter. — 
Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Heed. 

2. Suph. (C]?tO, Sept. «Xoc,Vulg. carectum , pclayus ) 
occurs frequently in the 0. T. in connection with yam, 
“sea,” to denote the “Red Sea” (q. v.). The term 
here appears to be used in a very wide sense to denote 
“ weeds of any kind.” The yam-snph, therefore, is the 
“ sea of weeds,” and perhaps, as Stanley (S. and P. p. 
G, note) observes, suph “may be applied to any aque- 
ous vegetation,” which would include the arborescent 
coral growths for which this sea is celebrated, as well 
as the different algae which grow at the bottom : see 
Pliny (n. N. xiii, 25) and Shaw ( Ti'avels , p..387, fol. 
1738), who speaks of a “variety of algen and fuci that 
grow within its channel, antf at low water aro left in 
great quantities upon the sea-shore” (see also p. 384). 
The word suph in Jonah ii, 5, translated “weeds” by 


the A.Y., has, there can be no doubt, reference to “ sea- 
weed,” and more especially to the long, ribbon-like 
fronds of the Laminaria , or the entangled masses of* 
Fuci. In Exod. ii, 3, 5, however, where we read that 
Moses was laid “in the suph, A. V. ‘flags,’ by the riv- 
er’s brink,” it is probable that “reeds” or “rushes,” 
etc., are denoted, as Rab. Salomon explains it, “ a place 
thick with reeds.” (See Celsius, Ilierob. ii, GG.) The 
yam-suph in the Coptic version (as in Exod. x, 19 ; xiii, 
18 ; Psa. evi, 7, 9, 22) is rendered “the Sari-sea.” The 
word sari is the old Egyptian for a sedge of some kind. 
Jablonski (Opusc. i, 2G6) gives Juncus as its rendering, 
and compares a passage in Theophrastus (Hist. Plant. 

iv, 8, § 2, 5) which thus describes the sari: “ The sari 
grows in water about marshes and those watery places 
which the river after its return to its bed leaves be- 
hind it ; it has a hard and closely-twisted root, from 
which spring the saria (stalks) so-called.” Pliny (II. 
A r . xiii, 23) thus speaks of this plant : “ The sari, which 
grows about the Nile, is a shrubby kind of plant (?), 
commonly being about two cubits high, and as thick 
as a man’s thumb ; it has the panicle (coma) of the 
papyrus, and is similarly eaten ; the root, on account 
of its hardness, is used in blacksmiths’ shops instead of 
charcoal.” Sprengel (Hist. Herb, i, 78) identifies the 
sari of Theophrastus with the Cyperus fasti giatus, Linn.; 
but the description is too vague to serve as a sufficient 
basis for identification. There can be little doubt that 
suph is sometimes used in a general sense like our 
English “ weeds.” It cannot be restricted to denote 
alga , as Celsius has endeavored to show, because none 
of the proper algce are found in the Nile. Lady Cal- 
cott (Script. Herb. p. 158) thinks the Zostera marina 
(“grass- wrack”) may be intended, but there is noth- 
ing in favor of such an opinion. The suph of Isa. xix, 
G, where it is mentioned with the kaneh , appears to be 
used in a more restricted sense to denote some species 
of “reed” or “tall grass.” There are various kinds 
of Cyperacece and tall Graminacece , such as Arundo and 
Saccharwn, in Egypt. — Smith, s. v. See Weed. 

Flag (as a military term) is represented generally 
in Heb. by bin, de' gel, such being those borne by the 
Israelitish camp during their march through the wil- 
derness. Each three tribes had a banner of this de- 
scription (Numb, i, 52 ; ii, 2 sq. ; x, 14 sq.), of the col- 
or and form of which the Rabbins have many legend- 
ary stories (see Jonathan on Numb, ii; comp. Carp- 
zov, Appar. p. C67 sq.). The tribe of Judah (together 
with Issaehar and Zebulon) bore as a device a young 
lion (compare Gen. xlix, 9); the tribe of Reuben (with 
Simeon and Gad), a man (according to Jonathan, a stag, 
instead of the bullock, as a memento of the golden calf, 
Gen. xlix, 6); Ephraim (with Manasseh and Benja- 
min), a steer (boys, according to Jonathan); Dan (with 
Asher and Naphtali), an eagle (according to Jonathan, 
a cerastes; comp. Gen. xlix, 17), on their tribal stand- 
ard. How the f eld-ensigns of the several families, 
which in those passages are called SYirk, signs , differ- 
ed from these is not clearly defined. The as- 

sertion of colored pennants (Harmer, i, 478) is not sus- 
tained by proof. On the pretended motto upon the 
banner of the Maccabees, see Maccabjeus. 03, nes, 
which is often taken for a banner, is a military signal 
raised upon a mountain as a telegraphic notice (Isa. 

v, 2G ; xiii, 2; xxiii, 3; xxx, 17 ; lxii, 10, etc. ; comp. 
Cicero, Attic . x, 17; Macrob. Saturn, i, 1G), and may 
have usually consisted of a high pole with a streamer 
fiying from its summit. Others regard it rather as a 
beacon fire (7Ti»pcroc, (Pqvktoq ; comp. Curtins, v, 2, 7 ; 
vii, 7, 5, 13). See generally Faber, ii, 4G2 sq. ; Jahn, 
II, ii, 4G2 sq. ; Celsius, Be Vexillis Ilebr. (Upsal. 1727). 
To the Roman standards, aquilce (Josephus, War , iii, 
G2 ; comp. Hermann, ad Lucian, conscrib. hist. p. 185), 

I an allusion apparently occurs in Matt, xxiv, 28. (On 
the Egyptian ensigns, see Wilkinson, i, 294; Rcsel- 


FLAGELLANTS 


587 


FLAKE 


lini, U, iii, 230.) The Persians under Cyrus bore the 
same symbol (Xenoph. Cyrop. vii, i, 4 ; but Ezek. xvii, 
3 is not in point, being a reference to Chaldrcan usages). 
See generally Lydii Synt. sacr. de re milit. iii, 7. — Wi- 
ner, i, 3G2. Compare Banner. 

Flagellants (Lat .flagellare, to scourge), a name 
given to certain fanatical sects from the 12th to the 
15th century, who used the scourge as a means of pu- 
rification. See Discipline of the Lasii. They 
were also called cruciferi , cntcif ratres, because they 
held it their duty, as they said, to copy the sufiferings 
of Christ; and acephali , because of their separation 
from the Roman Church authority. Their excesses 
were only the natural development of certain features 
of the Roman discipline [see Penance ; Penitential 
Discipline] ; especially of the belief, springing from 
the system of indulgences, that the mercy of God could 
be propitiated by self-inflicted punishments. It is said 
that the first society of Flagellants appeared in Padua 
in the beginning of the 12tli century. Amid the con- 
tests between the Guelphs and Ghibellines, cruelty 
and rapine were followed by remorse ; and about 1260 
public associations sprang up for the purpose of disci- 
pline, under the name of Flagellantes. In an edict 
of tlie marquis of Este and the people of Ferrara for 
their suppression, they are termed Le Compagnie de' 
Rattuti , and Sodalitas Scopre sive Fusiigationis . Mura- 
tori has given a plate of the thongs which they em- 
ployed against themselves (Antiq. Ital. med . <m, vi, 
4G9). Self-scourging was practised in the open streets, 
and little regard was paid to decency. A hermit 
named Rainier, of Perugia, is named as the founder of 
the sect, and his success was wonderful. Vast bodies 
of men, girded with ropes, marched in procession, with 
songs and prayer, through the cities, and from one city 
to another, calling on the people to repent. All hos- 
tilities ceased. The momentary impression produced 
by these movements was profound, but it did not last 
long. From Italy the contagion passed over the 
Alps ; large bodies wandered over Carniola, Austria, 
and even as far as Poland. In a few years they dis- 
appeared. Under the alarm of the great plague of the 
following century the Flagellants revived again. The 
plague reached Italy in 1347, and carried off through- 
out Europe millions of persons : 1,200,000 in Germany, 
where, in 1349, the Flagellants “arose afresh, with in- 
creased enthusiasm. They wandered through several 
provinces, whipping themselves, and propagating the 
most extravagant doctrines, namely, that flagellation 
was of equal virtue with the sacraments ; that the for- 
giveness of all sins was to be obtained by it, exclusive 
of the merits of Christ ; that the old law of Christ was 
soon to be abolished, and that a new* law, enjoining 
the baptism of blood, to be administered by whipping, 
was to be substituted in its place. Clement YI issued 
a bull against them (Oct. 20, 1349), and in many places 
their leaders were burned. They are again mentioned 
in the beginning of the 15th century as venting yet 
stranger and more mystical tenets in Thuringia and 
Lower Saxony. They rejected every branch of exter- 
nal worship, entertained some wild notions respecting 
the evil spirit, and held that the person who believes 
what is contained in the Apostles’ Creed, repeats fre- 
quently the Lord’s Prayer and the Ave Maria, and at 
certain times lashes his body severely as a voluntary 
punishment for the transgressions he has committed, 
shall obtain eternal salvation. The infection spread 
rapidly, and occasioned much disorder; for, by trav- 
elling in such numbers, they gave rise to seditions 
disturbances and to very man}' excesses. The shame- 
ful exposure of their persons, and their extortion of 
alms, rendered them so obnoxious to the higher clergy 
and to the more respectable classes, that several princes 
in Germany and Italy endeavored to suppress their 
irregularities, and the kings of Poland and Bohemia 
expelled them from their territories. A numerous 
list of these fanatics who were condemned to the 


flames is preserved by the German ecclesiastical histo- 
rians. At Sangerhausen, in the year 1414, no fewer 
than ninety-one were burned” (Encyc. Metrop. s. v.). 
In the year 1399 a society of this character, the White 
Brethren (Bianchi), descended from the Alps into Ita- 
ly, and were everywhere enthusiastically welcomed 
both by the clergy and the populace ; but no sooner 
had they reached the papal territory than their leader 
was put to death, and the whole array dispersed. Af- 
ter this processions of Flagellants were led through 
Italy, Spain, and the south of France by the Domini- 
can Vincentius Ferrentius, who may perhaps have 
been the secret instigator of the White Brethren. But 
such processions having been condemned at the Coun- 
cil of Constance, he also discontinued them (Gieseler, 
§ 120). Gieseler gives extracts from the trial at San- 
gerhausen, 1414, with many of their articles of doc- 
trine ( Church Jlistoiy, § 120). See Boileau, Ilistoire 
des Flugellans (Paris, 1700, 12mo) ; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. 
cent, xiii, pt. ii, ch. iii ; cent, xiv, pt. ii, ch. v; cent, 
xv, pt. ii, ch. v ; Forstemann, Die christ. Geisslerge- 
sellschnften (Halle, 1828) ; Herzog, Real-EncyHop. iv, 
726 sq. ; Neander, Ch. Ilist. (Torrey’s), v, 512. 

Flagellation. See Scourge. 

Flagon, a word employed in the A. V. to render 
two distinct Hebrew terms. 

1. Ashishah ', (2 Sam. vi, 19; 1 Chron. xvi, 

3 ; Cant, ii, 5 ; Flos, iii, 1). The real meaning of this 
word, according to the conclusions of Gesenius ( Thes . 
Heb. p. 1G6), is a cake of pressed raisins (q. v.), such as 
are a common refreshment in the East, especially for 
travellers. See Cake. He derives it from a root 
signifying to congress , and this is confirmed by the 
renderings of the Sept, (fldyavov, dpopin /, t rsppara) 
and of the Vulgate (simila, but in Hos. vinacia , in 
Cant. flares, where the Sept, has pupa), and also by 
the indications of the Targum Pseudojon. and the 
Mislina (Nedurim, G, § 10). In the passage in Ilosea 
there is probably a reference to a practice of offering 
such cakes before the false deities. The rendering of 
the A. V. is perhaps to be traced to Luther, who in the 
first two of the above passages has ein Xossel ]Yein, 
and in the last Kanne Wein; but primarily to the in- 
terpretations of modern Jews (e. g. Gemara, Baba 
Balhra , and Targum oil Chronicles), grounded on a 
false etymology (see Michaelis, quoted by Gesenius, 
and the observations of the latter, as above). It will 
be observed that in the first two passages the words 
“of wine” are interpolated, and that in the last “of 
wine” should be “of grapes.” See Fruit. 

2. A Ybel, bp!3 (Isa. xxii, 24), which is commonly 

used for a bottle (q. v.) or vessel, originally probably 
a skin, but in later times a piece of pottery (Isa. xxx, 
14). But it also frequently occurs (Psa. lvii, 9, etc.) 
with the force of a musical instrument (A.V. gener- 
ally “psaltery,” but sometimes “viol”), a meaning 
which is adopted by the Targum, and the Arabic and 
Vulgate (inusici), and Luther, and given in the margin 
of the A. V. The text, however, seems to have aimed 
to follow the rendering of the Sept, (confusedly t7n- 
Kpipaptvoi ), and with this agree Gesenius ( Comment . 
in loc.) and Fiirst ( Hebr . Handier, s. v.), as being agree- 
able to the parallel bowls (“ cups,” Vulg. era- 

term). — Smith, s. v. See Musical Instruments; 
Pitcher. 

Flake is the rendering in the A. V. at Job xli, 15 
(“the flakes of his [i. e. leviathan’s] flesh are joined 
together,” ilp^, have clung , i. e. are rigid), for 
mapped' , something pendulous (elsewhere only Amos 
viii, G, for refuse of grain, as that which falls away in 
winnowing, i. o. chaff), referring to the dewlaps or 
flabby parts on the belly of the crocodile (q. v.), which 
are firmly attached to the body, instead of loosely hang- 
ing as in the ox. 


FLAMBOYANT 


588 


FLAMEN 


Flamboyant (Fr . flambeau torch), “a i 
applied by the antiquaries of France to the styl 
architecture ■which was 
contemporary in that 
country with the Per- 
pendicular of England, 
from the flame-like sav- 
ings of its tracery. It 
ought perhaps to be re- 
garded as a vitiated Dec- 
orated rather than a dis- 
tinct style, though some 
of its characteristics are 
peculiar, and it seldom 
possesses the purity or 
boldness of earlier ages ; 
in rich works the intri- 
cacy and redundancy of 
the ornaments are some- 
times truly surprising. 

One of the most striking 
and universal features is 
the waving arrangement 

of tl,e tracery of the st . ouui, Kouen. 

windows, panels, etc. — 

Parker, Glossary of A rchitecture, s. v. 



Flame (prop, la' hah, (p\6£), the incandescent 

vapor of fire, with which latter term it is usually found 
connected in the Bible. The only thing respecting 
fire which calls for explanation here is its symbolical 
use. In this we may distinguish a lower and a higher 
sense : a lower, when the reference is simply to the 
burning heat of the element, in which respect any vehe- 
ment affection, such as anger, indignation, shame, love, 
is wont to be spoken of as a fire in the bosom of the in- 
dividual affected (Psa. xxxix, 3; Jer. xx, 9); and a 
higher, which is also by much the more common one 
in Scripture, when it is regarded as imaging the more 
distinctive properties of the divine nature. In this 
symbolical use of fire the reference is to its powerful, 
penetrating agency, and the terrible melting, seeming- 
ly resistless, effects it is capable of producing. So 
viewed, fire, especially a “ flame [nsb] of fire” (Exod. 
iii, 2), is the chosen symbol of the holiness of God, 
which manifests itself in a consuming hatred of sin, 
and can endure nothing in its presence but what is in 
accordance with the pure and good. There is consid- 
erable variety in the application of the symbol, but the 
passages are all explicable by a reference to this fun- 
damental idea. God, for example, is called “a con- 
suming fire”(Heb. xii, 29; comp. nsftVj, an intense 
flame); to dwell with him is to dwell “with devour- 
ing fire” (Isa. xxxiii, 14); as manifested even in the 
glorified Redeemer, “his eyes are like a flame of fire” 
(Rev. ii, 18); his aspect when coming for judgment is 
as if a fire went before him, or a scorching flame com- 
passed him about (Psa. xcvii, 3; 2 Thess. i,8) — in these, 
and many similar representations occurring in Scrip- 
ture, it is the relation of God to sin that is more espe- 
cially in view, and the searching, intense, all-consum- 
ing operation of his holiness in regard to it. They 
who are themselves conformed to this holiness have 
nothing to fear from it; they can dwell amid its light 
and glory as in their proper element; like Moses, can 
enter the flame-enwrapping cloud of the divine pres- 
ence, and abide in it unscathed, though it appear in 
the eyes of others “ like devouring fire on the top of 
tiie mount” (Exod. xxiv, 17, 18). Hence we can eas- 
ily explain why in Old-Testament times the appear- 
ance of tire, and in particular the pillar of fire (envel- 
oped in a cloud, as if to shade and restrain its exces- 
sive brightness and power), was taken as the appropri- 
ate form of the divine presence -and glory; for in those 
times, which were more peculiarly the times of the law, 
it was the holiness of God that came most prominent- 


ly into view ; it was this which had in every form tc 
he pressed most urgently upon the consciences of men, 
as a counteractive to the polluting influences of idola- 
try, and of essential moment to a proper apprehension 
of the covenant. But in the new, as well as in the 
old, when the same form of representation is employed, 
it is the same aspect of the divine character that is 
meant to be exhibited. Thus, at the commencement 
of the Gospel era, when John the Baptist came forth 
announcing the advent of the Lord, he spoke of him as 
coming to baptize with fire as well as with the Spirit, 
not less to burn up the chaff with fire unquenchable 
than to gather in the wheat into his garner (Matt, iii, 
11, 12). The language is substantially that of an Old- 
Testament prophet (Mai. iii, 2; iv, 1); and it points, 
not, as is often represented, to the enlightening, puri- 
fying, love-enkindling agency of Christ, but to the se- 
vere and retributive effects of his appearance, lie 
was to be set for judgment as well as for mercy ; for 
mercy indeed first, but to those who rejected the mer- 
cy, and hardened themselves in sin, also for judgment. 
To be- baptized with the Spirit of light, holiness, and 
love, is what should ever follow on a due submission to 
his authority ; but a baptism with fire — the fire of di- 
vine wrath here (John iii, 36), growing into fire un- 
quenchable hereafter — should be the inevitable portion 
of such as set themselves in rebellion against him. 

It is true that fire in its symbolical use is also spo- 
ken of as purifying— the emblem of a healing process 
effected upon the spiritual natures of persons in cove- 
nant with God. M r e read, not merely of fire, but of 
refiner’s fire, and of a spirit of burning purging away 
the dross and impurity of Jerusalem (Mai. iii, 2; Isa. 
iv, 4). Still it is a work of severity and judgment 
that is indicated ; yet its sphere is, not the unbeliev- 
ing and corrupt world, but the mixed community of 
the Lord’s people, with many false members to be 
purged out, and the individual believer himself with 
an old man of corruption in his members to be morti- 
fied and cast off. The Spirit of holiness has a work 
of judgment to execute also there ; and with respect 
to that it might doubtless be said that Christ baptizes 
each one of his people with fire. But in the discourse 
of the Baptist the reference is rather to different class- 
es of persons than to different kinds of operation in the 
same person ; he points to the partakers of grace on 
the one side, and to the children of apostasy and per- 
dition on the other. Nor is the reference materially 
different in the emblem of tongues, like as of fire, 
which sat on the apostles at Pentecost, and in the fire 
that is said to go out of the mouth of the symbolical 
witnesses of the Apocalypse (Acts ii, 3 ; Lev. xi, 5). 
In both cases the fire indicated the power of holiness 
to be connected with the ministrations of Christ’s 
chosen witnesses — a power that should, as it were, 
burn up the corruptions of the world, consume the 
enmity of men’s hearts, and prove a resistless weapon 
against the power and malice of the adversary. — Fair- 
bairn, s. v. Compare Like. 

Flameii, according to Varro and Festus, from f la- 
men, the band of white wool wrapped about the cap, 
was the title given to members of a college of Roman 
priests devoted severally to the service of a particular 
deity. “ Divisque aliis SacerdoU s, omnibus Pont fees , 
singulis Flamines sunt of says Cicero (De Leg. ii, 8). 
Each received his distinctive name from that of the 
god to whose service he was devoted — “ horum singuli 
cognomen hahent ab eo deo quoi sacra faciunt (Varro, De 
Ling. Lat . v, 84). There were two classes of flaniens, 
(1.) those styled famines majores, and always patri- 
cians, viz. the fl. dial is, martialis, and quirinalis, in- 
stituted by Numa, according to Livy (i, 20), to take 
charge of those religious services which had hitherto 
been functions of the kingly office; and (2.) the fa- 
mines minores, who might be, and usually were plebe- 
ians, about twelve in number, and instituted at vari- 
i ous times. 


FLAMINGIANS 


589 


FLAVEL 


The flamens were in the earlier times nominated by 
the Comitia Curiata (in the case of the dialis three be- 
ing designated), but after the enactment of the Lex 
Domitia (B.C. 104) they were named by the Comitia 
Tributa, and when thus nominated were received ( cap - 
tl) and inaugurated by the pontifex maximus, who al- 
ways claimed paramount authority over them. The 
office was for life, but forfeitable for a breach of duty, 
or on the occurrence of some accident of ill omen while 
engaged in priestly functions. Their official dress was 
the apex, a sort of close-fitting cap, the Irena, yA aiva, a 
thick woollen cloak (see Smith, Diet. Antiq. s. v.),and a 
laurel wreath. The highest in rank and honor was the 
flamen dialis, or priest of Jupiter, who must be the son 
of parents united in marriage by the ceremony of con- 
far reatio (which rule probably applied to all the majo- 
red), and who was himself married by the same form to 
his wife, officially styled flaminica, whose aid was so 
indispensable to him in the performance of his priestly 
offices that, in the event of her death, he was forced 
to resign, since the flamen dialis could not marry 
again. He was subject to many restrictions — among 
others, was forbidden to leave the city for a single 
night (though this rule was somewhat modified by Au- 
gustus and Tiberius), or to sleep out of his bed for three 
consecutive nights ; to touch or mount a horse, or look 
upon an army drawn up outside of the potneerium ; nor 
could he take an oath, hence he could not be a consul 
or governor of a province, and was, it would appear, 
sumino jure, excluded from all civil offices, and made 
Jove adsiiluum sacerdotem (Liv. i, 20). Furthermore, 
he could not wear a ring nisi pervio et casso , whatever 
that may mean, or go out without his proper head- 
dress, or allow a knot in his attire, touch flour, leaven, 
leavened bread, a dead body, a dog, a she-goat, ivy, 
beans, or raw flesh. Similar restrictions followed the 
actions of the flaminica. On the other hand, the fhi- 
men dialis enjoyed peculiar privileges, viz. exemption 
from parental control, an ex officio seat in the senate, 
a lictor, the right to use the sella curulis and the toga 
pr&texta, the seat next below the rex sacrificulus at 
banquets, and the right of sanctuary for his house. 
11 is distinctive dress was the albogalerus (see Hope’s 
Costumes , pi. 266). Of the jlamen niartialis , or priest 
of Mars, and the Jlamen quirinalis , or priest of Quirinus, 
less frequent mention is made, and of the Jlamines mi- 
nores but little is known beyond the names. The mu- 
nicipal towns also had flamens, and after it became a 
custom to deify the emperors, flamens were appointed, 
both in Rome and the provinces, to attend to their 
worship. — Smith, Diet. Greek and Roman Antiq. s. v. ; 
Ramsay, Man. Rom. Antiq. s. v. ; Liv} 1- , i, 20; v, 52; 
Epit. xix, xxvii, 8; xxix, 38; xxx, 26; xxxi, 50; 
xxxvii, 51 ; Tacitus, Ann. iii, 58, 71 ; iv, 16 ; Plutarch, 
Numa , 7, and Quest. Rom. p. 114, 118, 119, 164-170 (ed. 
Reiske) ; Festus, s. v. Maximee dignationes and majores 
diamines; Aulus Gellius, x, 15, etc. (J. AV. M.) 

Flamingians. See Mennonites. 

Flank, ke'sel , the loin of an animal (Job xiv, 

27, where fatness is noted as a sign of self-pampering) ; 
elsewhere in the plur. for the internal muscles of the 
loins near the kidneys, to which the fat adheres, Gr. 
ipoat (Lev. iii, 4, 10, 15; iv, 9; vii, 4); hence the vis- 
cera in general, metaphorically for the inmost feelings 
(“ loins,” Psa. xxxviii, 8). See Reins. 

Flash of Lightning (Ezek. i, 14). See Light- 
ning. 

Flatt, a name borne by several theological writers 
of Germany. I. Joiiann Jakob, horn at Balingen in 
1724, studied theology at Tubingen, and became tutor 
in that university in 1749. lie was successively ap- 
pointed deacon of Leonberg in 1753, of Tubingen in 
1757, of St. Leonard’s Church at Stuttgard in 1759, 
pastor in the latter city in 1781, court preacher in 
■>783, counsellor of the Consistory in 1784, and abbot 


of Ilerrenalb in 1791. He died Sept. 16, 1792. His 
principal works are : Mcletemataphilosophico-theolcgica 
ad materias gravissimas (de imputatione peccati Adumit- 
ici: — De vicaria Christi satisfactione : — De humance 
Chisti naturae omnipreesentia [Tlib. 1759]): — Untersu- 
chung. r, d. Siinde udder d. Htiligen Geist (Lpz. 1770). 

II. Joiiann Fiuedricii, son of the foregoing, was 
born at Tubingen Feb. 20, 1759, became professor of 
theology in the university of his native city in 1798, 
and died Nov. 24, 1821. His principal writings are: 
Versuche theolog.-kritisch-philosophischen Inhalts (Lpz. 
1785 ) : — Beitrdge z. Bestimmung , etc. d. Causalitut (Lpz. 
1788) : — Brief e ii. d. moralischen Erkenntnissgrunde dev 
Religion (Tub. 1789 ) : — Vorlesungen ii. christliche Moral , 
herausgeg. v. Steudel (Tub. 1823) \-Opuscula Academ - 
ica, herausgeg. v. SUsskind (Tub. 1826) : — Magazin fur 
christliche Dogmatik w. Moral (Tub. 1796-1810). Hoff- 
mann and Kling have also published his Vorlesungen ii. 
d. Brief a. d. Rbmer (Tubing. 1825) : — a. d. Korinther 
(1827) : — a. d. Galater und Epheser (1828) : — a. d. Phi- 
Upper, Kolosser , Thessalonicher u. Philemon (1829) : — 
a. d. Timotheus u. Titus (1831). — Doering, Gelehrte The - 
ologen Deutschlands , i, 408. 

III. Karl Christian, brother of the preceding, 
was born at Stuttgard in 1772. lie became in 1812 
high counsellor of the Consistor}' and prebendary of 
Stuttgard, counsellor of the university in 1813, prelate 
in 1822, and general superintendent at Ulm in 1828. 
He resigned his office in 1842, and died in 1843. He 
wrote, in connection with Storr, Lehrbuch d. christi . 
Dogmatik (2d ed., 1813, 2 vols. ; transl. by Sehmucker, 
Storr and Flatt’s Biblical Theology , Andover, 2d ed., 
1836); and published, in connection with Ewald, the 
Zeitschrift z. Ndhrung christlichen Sinus (1815-1819, 3 
vols.). — Pierer, Universal-Lexikon , s. v. 

Flattich, Johann Friedrich, a German theolo- 
gian and educator, was bom in 1713 at Beyhingen, 
near Ludwigsburg. After studying theology at Tu- 
bingen, he became in succession preacher of the gar- 
rison of Hohenasberg (1742), pastor of Metterzimmern 
(1747), and pastor at Munchingen (1760). At the lat- 
ter place he died in 1797. Flattich wrote a number 
of works and essays on education, as Ilausregeln , Vom 
Ehestind , Enterschiedliche Gedanken , Von der Aufer- 
zieliung der Kinder. Most of his works are collected 
in Leddcrhose, Leben und Schriften des J. F. Flattich 
(3d edit. Heidelberg, 1856). He also enjoyed the rep- 
utation of being one of the most successful educators 
in Southern Germany, and was on intimate terms with 
many of the prominent men of that period. See Pal- 
mer, in Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xix, 493; Volter, in 
Schmid, Encyklop. fur das Erzhliungs-und Unterrichts - 
wesen , ii, 382. (A. J. S.) 

Flavel, John, a nonconformist divine and writer 
of practical works, was born in Worcestershire, Eng- 
land, in 1627. He was in early life religiously edu- 
cated by his father, and completed his public educa- 
tion at Oxford. Having devoted himself to the Gos- 
pel ministry, he was settled at Deptford in 1650 as 
curate to Mr. Walplate, and on his death succeeded to 
the rectory. In 1655 he accepted a unanimous and 
pressing call to remove to Dartmouth, where lie re- 
ceived a much smaller stipend, but had a larger field 
of usefulness. In 1662 he was ejected from his living 
for nonconformity ; he did not, however, forsake his 
flock, but seized every opportunity of ministering to 
their spiritual necessities. His colleague dying soon 
after, the whole care devolved on him. On the exe- 
cution of the Oxford Act he 'was compelled to remove 
five miles from Dartmouth, to Slapton, where he was 
out of the reach of legal disturbance, and where many 
of his former flock, in spite of the severity of the laws, 
resorted to him, and he at times stole into the town to 
visit them. Once, while preaching in a wood, he was 
just entering on his discourse, when the soldiers sud- 
denly rushed in and dispersed the conventicle. Sev 


FLAVIANUS 


590 


FLAX 


eral of the fugitives were apprehended and fined ; but 
the remainder, rallying after the effects of their first 
surprise had subsided, conveyed Mr. Flavel to a more 
retired spot, where he resumed his sermon. In 1G87, 
when James II dispensed with the penal laws, Mr. 
Flavel came forth from obscurity, and renewed his 
self-sacrificing labors. He took a lively interest in 
the proposed union between the Presbyterian and In- 
dependent churches, which was effected in 1691, and, 
like many a good man in those days, fondl}' anticipa- 
ted from that consummation a season of ecclesiastical 
peace and concord which never arrived. He died in 
1G91, leaving behind him the name of a most faithful 
minister. Flavel’s writings are valued more for their 
pungent and practical earnestness than for any other 
qualities. His Whole Works were published in Lon- 
don in 1820 (G vols. 8vo). The American Tract Soci- 
ety publishes, in cheap form, his Fountain of Life , 
Method of Grace, Christ knocking at the Door, On keep- 
ing the Heart , and Touchstone of Sincerity .• — Jamieson, 
Religious Biography, s. v. ; Jones, Christian Biography, 
s. v. ; Hogue and llennett, History of Dissenters , i, 340. 

Flavianus, patriarch of Antioch, was born of one 
of the best families in that city in the early part of the 
4th century. Even while a layman he was an earnest 
opponent of Arianism. Theodoret (who gives a full 
account of Flavian) says that he, associated with an- 
other lay monk, Diodorus, “ by night and day exhort- 
ed all men to be zealous in religion.” He says also 
that “ they were the first to devise the choir, and to 
teach them to sing the Psalms of David responsively” 
(. Hist . Eccles. ii, 24). His zeal did not diminish after 
his ordination as priest by Meletius (q. v.), about A.D. 
3G5 (?). When Meletius was banished from his see by 
Yalens, Flavian remained to serve the churches in An- 
tioch. But the Eustathian (q. v.) bishop Paulinas con- 
tested the right of Meletius, and the churches were 
divided. On the death of Meletius, A.D. 381, Flavian 
was elected to succeed him, although (according to the 
accusation of Paulin us) he had 1 ound himself b} r oath 
not to accept the office while the Eustathian bishop 
survived. The dispute was a fierce one ; but at last, 
when Evagrius, successor of Paulinus, died, 390, Fla- 
vian was acknowledged by both the Eastern and West- 
ern churches. He was held in great respect : Chrysos- 
tom. who was his pupil, speaks ver}' highly of him. 
He died A.D. 404. He treated the Messalians severe- 
ly fsee Messalians]. — Socrates, Hist. Eccl. bk. v, ch. 
xxiv; Sozomen, Hist. Eccles. viii, 24 ; Theodoret, Hist. 
Eccl . ii, 24; Cave, Hist. Lift. ; Ceillier, Auteurs Sacres 
(Paris, 1860), vi, 310. See Eustathius ; Meletius. 

Flavianus of Constantinople was chosen bish- 
op of that city, as successor to Proclus, A.D. 446 or 447. 
The emperor Theodosius was set against him from the 
beginning of his episcopate. Eutyehes and his friends 
were very strong at court, but at a Home Synod at 
which Flavian presided (A.D. 448) at Constantinople, 
Eusebius of Dorylamm presented a formal complaint 
against Eutyehes. Flavian, knowing the danger of 
attacking persons so powerful in court influence, at 
first sought to quiet the matter ; but, as Eutyehes was 
stubborn, the trial was had, and ended in his condem- 
nation for heresy. The emperor was greatl} r offend- 
ed, and, under the advice of Dioscurus, summoned a 
council at Ephesus (the Bobber Council), at which Di- 
oscurus presided, and where the most violent courses 
V'ere pursued. Flavian was not only deposed, but so 
brutally beaten by the Egyptian attendants of Dios- 
curus that he died three days after (A.D. 449). The 
Council of Chalcedon named him martyr, and his name 
is to be found in the Roman martyrology, Feb. 18. See 
Evagrius, Hist. Eccl. i, 8; Neander, Church Jlistoiy, ii, 
506 sq. ; and arts. Eutyciies ; Eutyciiianism ; Eph- 
esus, Robber Council of;- Eusebius of Doryl.e- 

FI avigny, Valerian de, a French IIebrev r schol- 


ar, was born at Villers-en-Prayeres, near Laon, about 
the commencement of the 17th century; was made 
doctor of the Sorbonne in 1628, and in 1630 professor 
of Hebrew at the College of France. Flavigny was 
master of several Oriental languages, and was consid- 
ered one of the best critics of the Bible text of his time. 
He was engaged in a controversy with Abraham Eeh- 
ellensis (q. v.) and Gabriel Sionita with regard to 
the correctness of the polyglot of Lc Jay, which was 
finally decided against him by a committee of the Sor- 
bonne. He condemned the Copernican system as he- 
retical in his Expostulate adversus thesim, etc. (Paris, 
1666, 12mo). He died April 29, 1674. Flavigny’s 
writings on the text of the Bible are, Epistoke iv de in- 
oenti Bibliorum optre septemlingui (1636): — Epistolie duce 
in quibus de ingenti Bibliorum opere quod nuper Lutetian 
Parisiorum prodiit ac ei profixa preefitione, etc. (1646): 
— Epistola iii a in qua de libello Ruth Syriaco , quern Abr. 
Echelknsis insertion esse voluit ingenti Bibliorum operi, 
etc. (1647) : — Epistola adversus Abr. Echellensem de libello 
Ruth, simulque sacrosancta veritas hebraica strenue de- 
fenditur atque propugnatur (1648) : — Disquisitio theolog- 
ica, an, lit habei Capellanus , nonnulla sanctee Scripturce 
testimonia alio modo proferantur a rabbinis quam nunc 
leguntur in voluminibus kebraicis . . . (16C6). Flavig- 
U3 r published also a dissertation against the proposi- 
tions of Louis of Clhves on the episcopacy and priest- 
hood. He was also editor of the works of Guillaume 
de Saint- Amour, a divine of the 13th century. — Dupin, 
Bibliotheque des Aut. ecclesiastiques, xviii, 99; Hocfer, 
Nouv. Biographic Gmevale, xvii, 864; Biographie Uni - 
verselle , xv, 27. 

Flax, SIMS, pishiali (Exod. ix, 31; Isa. xlii, 3; 
“tow,” xliii,17); and pishteU (rendered “flax” 

or “linen”); Greek \ivov. As regards the latter of 
these tw r o Heb. terms, there is probably only one pas- 
sage where it stands for the plant in its undressed state 
(Josh, ii, 6). Eliminating all the places where the 
words are used for the article manufactured in the 
thread, the piece, or the made-up garment (q. v. sever- 
ally), w'e reduce them to two: Exod. ix, 31, certain, 
and Josh, ii, 6, disputed. In the former the flax of the 
Egj'ptians is recorded to have been damaged by the 
plague of hail. The word there rendered “boll,” 

is retained by Onkelos ; but is rendered in the Sept. 
GTTtppaTiZov, and in the Vulg. folliculos germinabat. 
RosenmUller renders it “ the globule or knob of ripen- 
ing flax” ( Schol. ad loc.). Gesenius makes it the ca- 
lix or corolla ; refers to the Misbna, where it is used 
for the calix of the hyssop, and describes this explana- 
tion as one of long standing among the more learned 
Rabbins ( Thes . p. 261). See Rolled. As the depart- 
ure of the Israelites took place in the spring, this pas- 
sage has reference no doubt to the practice adopted in 
Egypt, as w'ell as in India, of sowing grain partly in 
the months of September and October, and partly in 
spring, so that the wheat might easily be in blade at 
the same time that the barley and flax w'ere more ad- 
vanced. From the numerous references to flax and 
linen, there is no doubt that the plant w*as extensive- 
ly cultivated, not only in Egypt, but also in Pales- 
tine. Ritter ( Erdlcunde , ii, 916 : compare his Yorlialle, 
etc., p. 45-48) renders it probable that the cultivation 
of flax for the purpose of the manufacture of linen was 
by no means confined to these countries, but that, orig- 
inating in India, it spread over the whole continent of 
Asia at a very early period of antiquity. For the cul- 
ture of flax, low alluvial lands which have received 
deposits left by the overflowing of rivers are deemed 
the most favorable situations. To this circumstance 
Egypt must have been indebted for the superiorit}' of 
her flax, so famous in the ancient w r orld, and wdiieh 
gave to her more' elaborate manufactures the subtilty 
of the most exquisite muslin, well meriting the epithet 
“woven air.” Herodotus mentions (iii, 47) as laid up 
in a temple at Lindus, in Rhodes, a linen corslet which 


FLAX 


591 


FLAX 


had belonged to Amasis, king of Egypt, each thread of 
which was composed of 3G0 strands or filaments. In 
length and in fineness of fibre no country could com- 
pete with the flax which produced the “fine linen of 
Egypt,” and which made the Delta “the great linen 
market of the ancient world” (Kalisch). By annihi- 
lating this crop, the seventh plague inflicted a terrible 
calamity. It destroyed what, next to corn, formed the 
6taple of the country, and would only find its modern 
parallel in the visitation which should cut off a cotton 
harvest in America. That it was grown in Palestine 
even before the conquest of that country by the Israel- 
ites appears from Josh, ii, 6, the second of the two pas- 
sages mentioned above. There is, however, some dif- 
ference of opinion about the meaning of the words 
y 3?fl (Sept. Xtr'o/caXtqu//, Vulg. stipules Uni, and 

so A.Y. “stalks of flax”); Josephus speaks of AtVou 
uyKa\id(g, armfuls or bundles of flax; but Arab.Vcrs. 
“stalks of cotton Gesenius, however, and Itoscn- 
miiller are in favor of the rendering “stalks of flax.” 
If this be correct, the place involves an allusion to the 
custom of drying the flax-stalks by exposing them to 
the heat of the sun upon the flat roofs of houses ; and 
so expressly in Josephus (Ant. v, i, 2). See Stalk. 



In later times this drying -was done in ovens. There 
is a decided reference to the raw material in the Sept. 


rendering of Lev. xiii, 47 ( ipar'up OTV7T7rvliH>)), and 
Judg. xv, 14 (oTvmriov ; comp. Isa. i, 31). In several 
other passages, as Lev. xiii, 48, 52, 59 ; Deut. xxii, 11 ; 
Jer. xiii, 1 ; Ezek. xl, 3 ; xliv, 17, 18, we find it men 
tioned as forming different articles of clothing, as gir« 
dies, cords, and bands. In Prov. xxxi, 13, the careful 
house-wife “seeketh wool and flax, and worketh it 
willingly with her hands.” The words of Isaiah (xiii, 
3), “A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smok- 
ing flax shall he not quench,” are evidently referred 
to in Matt, xii, 20, where \ivov is used as the name of 
flax, and as the equivalent of pishtah. But there can 
be no doubt of this word being correctly understood, 
as it has been well investigated b}’ - several authors. 
(Celsius, Hierobot. ii, 283; Yates, Textrinum Antiquo- 
rum, p. 253). See Cotton. 

Few plants are at once so lovely and so useful as 
the slender, upright herb, with taper leaves and large 
blue-purple flowers, from which are fashioned alike 
the coarsest canvas and the most ethereal cambric or 
lawn — the sail of the ship and the fairv-looking scarf 
which can be packed into a filbert shell. It was of 
linen, in part at least, that the hangings of the taber- 
nacle were constructed, white, blue, and crimson, with 
cherubim inwoven ; and it was of linen that the vest- 
ments of Aaron were fashioned. When arrayed in all 
his glory, Solomon could put on nothing more costly 
than the finest linen of Egypt ; and describing “ the 
marriage of the Lamb,” the seer of Patinos represents 
the bride as “ arrayed in fine linen, clean and white ; 
for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.” As 
to Egypt, we have proof in the mummy-cloth being 
made of linen, and also in the representations of the 
flax cultivation in the paintings of the Grotto of El- 
Kab, which represent the whole process with the ut- 
most clearness; and numerous testimonies might be 
adduced from ancient authors of the esteem in which 
the linen of Egypt was held (Wilkinson, Anc. Eg. iii, 
139). From these pictures, preserved at Beni Hassan, 
it would seem that the Egyptian treatment of the flax- 
plant was essentially the same as that which was pur- 
sued till quite lately by ourselves, which even now is 
only modified by machinery, and which is thus de- 
scribed by Pliny : “ The stalks are immersed in water 
warmed by the heat of the sun, and are kept down by 
weights placed upon them, for nothing is lighter than 
flax. The membrane or rind becoming loose is a sign 
of their being sufficiently macerated. They are then 
taken out, and repeatedly turned over in the sun until 
perfectly dried, and afterwards beaten by mallets on 
stone slabs. The tow which is nearest the rind is in- 
ferior to the inner fibres, and is fit only for the wicks 
of lamps. It is combed out with iron hooks until all 
the rind is removed. The inner part is of a finer and 



a, steps lending up to the top of the pits, b b, where the flax was steeped ; e e, the flax taken by ftp. 3 to dry, previous to beating ; d, the stalks fresh cut. 

1 brings water in earthen pots ; 2 pours it over the stalks ; 4 and 5 are engaged in beating them with mallets, e e ; 6, pounding the coarser pnrls ; 7 and S, stril* 
ing the tow, after it is made into yarn, on a stone, g; 9 and 10, twisting the yarn into a rope, h ; 11 and 12 show that a piece of cloth, t, has been made of the yarn 
13, a superintendent. 


FLEA 


592 FLEETWOOD 


waiter quality. After it is made into yarn, it is pol- 
ished b}' striking it frequently on a hard stone, moist- 
ened with water ; and when woven into cloth it is again 
beaten with clubs, being always improved in propor- 
tion as it is beaten” (llist. Nat. xix, 1). The various I 
processes employed in preparing the flax for manufac- | 
ttire into cloth are indicated in Scripture. 1. The dry- 
ing process (see above). 2. The peeling of the stalks 
and separation of the fibres (the name of flax itself be- 
ing derivable either, as Parkhurst, from I3UJ2, pashat' , 
to strip, peel, or as Gesenius, from pashash ', to 

separate into parts). 3. The hackling (Isa. xix, 9; 
Sept. Xirov to oxigtov ; see Gesenius, Lex. s.v. j 

and for the combs used in the process, comp. Wilkin- 
son, Anc. Egypt, iii, 140). The flax, however, was not 
always dressed before weaving (see Ecclus. xl, 4, 
where wpoXivov is mentioned as a species of clothing 
worn by the poor). That the use of the coarser fibres 
was known to the Hebrews may be inferred from the 
mention of tow (P/l^D) in Judg. xvi, 9; Isa. i, 31. 
That flax was anciently one of the most important 
crops in Palestine appears from Hos. ii, 5, 9 ; that it 
continued to be grown and manufactured into linen in 
N. Palestine down to the Middle Ages we have the I 
testimony of numerous Talmudists and Rabbins. At 
present it does not seem to be so much cultivated there 
as the cotton-plant. For the flax of ancient Egypt, 
see llerodot. ii, 37, 105; Cels, ii, p. 285 sq. ; Ileeren, 
Ideen, ii, 2, p. 3G8 sq. For that of modern Egypt, see 
Hasselquist, Journey , p. 500; Olivier, Voyage , iii, 297 ; 
Girard’s Observations in Descript . de V Egypte, xvii, 98 ; 
Paul Lucas, Voyages, ii, 47. — Ivitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. ; 
Fairbairn, s. v. See Linen. 


Plea (T“P3, parosh', from its leaping ; a name 
found in the Arab, equivalent : see Bochart, iii, 474, ed. 
Itosenm.) occurs only 1 Sam. xxiv, 14 [15] ; xxvi, 20, 
where David thus addresses his persecutor Saul at the 
cave of Adullam : “After whom is the king of Israel 
come out? after whom dost thou pursue? — after a 
flea “ The king of Israel is come out to seek a flea!” 
In both these passages our translation omits the force 
of the word which is found in the Hebrew of 

each: thus, “to pursue after, to seek one or a single 
flea” (Sept. ^uXXoc dg, X T ulg. pulex maws). David’s 
allusion to the flea displays great address. It is an ap- 
peal founded upon the immense disparity between Saul, 
as the king of Israel, and himself as the poor contemp- 
tible object of the monarch’s laborious pursuit. Hunt- 
ing a flea is a comparison in other ancient writings 
(llomer, II. x, 378 ; Aristoph. Xub. i, 2 ; iii, 1) for much 
labor expended to secure a •worthless result. This in- 
sect, in the East, is often used as a popular emblem for 
insignificance (Roberts, Oriental Illustrations, p. 178). 
An Arabian author thus describes this troublesome in- 
sect : “A black, nimble, extenuated, hunch-backed 
animal, which, being 
sensible when any 
one looks on it, jumps 
incessantly, now on 
one side, now on the 
other, till it gets out 
of sight.” The flea 
belongs to the Lin- 
mean order aptera 
(Latreille, siphonap- 
tera ; Kirby, aphanapterd). For a description of itself 
and congeners, see the Penny Cyclopaedia, s. v. Pulex. 
Owing to the habits of the lower orders, fleas abound 
t*> profusely in Syria (see Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 
94), especially during the spring, in the streets and 
dusty bazaars, that persons of condition always change 
their long dresses on returning home. There is a pop- 
ular saying in Palestine that “the king' of the fleas 
keeps his court at Tiberias,” though many other 
places in that region might dispute the distinction 



Common Flea {Pule v Irritans), 
magnified. 


with that town (Kitto, Physical History of Palestine, p 
421). 

Flechier, Esprit, a celebrated French orator and 
prelate, was born June 10, 1G32, at Pernes, near Avig- 
non. After studying in the college of the “Fathers 
of the Christian Doctrine,” he went to Paris, and soon 
became known by a Latin poem on the famous carou- 
sal given by Louis XI Y in 1GG2. His sermons and 
funeral orations soon raised him to such a pitch of 
reputation that the duke of Montausier recommended 
him to fill the office of reader to the dauphin. In 1G73 
he was chosen a member of the Academy, and in 1G82 
he was appointed almoner to the dauphiness. In 1G85 
he obtained the bishopric of Lavaur. When the mon- 
arch gave it to him, he said, “Do not be surprised 
that I have been so tardy in rewarding your merit ; I 
was loth to be deprived of the pleasure of hearing you 
preach.” In 1687 he was removed to the bishopric of 
Nismes. The Protestants of his neighborhood suffer- 
ed greatly from the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, 
but Flechier administered his office so mildly and ten- 
derly that he gained the love of even the Protestants. 
He died in February, 1710 ; and when Fenelon heard 
of his death, he cried out, “ We have lost our master !” 
His panegyric cn Turenne is considered his masterpiece 
of eloquence. Among his writings are, Lcs Panecy- 
riques eles Saints (Paris, 1G97, 2 vols. 12mo) : — Oraisons 
Furiebres (4to): — Ilistoire de VEmpereur Theodoce le 
Grand (Paris, 1G79, 4to, and often 12mo) : — Vie du 
Card. Ximenes (2 vols. 12mo). They may all be found 
in the collection of his works, CEuvres completes , revues 
snr les manuscrits de V auteur , etc. (Nismes, 1782, 10 
vols. 8vo). — Biog. UniverseUe , xv, 35. 

Flechiere, de la. See Fletcher, John. 

Fledgling -would be a proper rendering for 
gozaV (so called from its peeping; the Arab, and Syr. 
use essentially the same word in the sense of nestling ), 
a “ young" bird, e. g. of the dove [squab], or pigeon 
(Gen. xv, 9), or eagle [eaglet] (Deut. xxxii, 11. The 
Greek corresponding term is vtoaaoQ (“young” pig- 
eon, Luke ii, 24). See Bird. 

Fleece (TS, gez, so called from shearing, Deut. 
xviii, 4; Job xxxi, 20; or if-t ji, the fern, form, Judg. 
vi, 37, 39, 40), the wool of a sheep, whether on the 
back of the animal, or shorn off, or attached to the 
flayed skin, which last appears to have been the case 
in the passage last cited. The threshing-floor of Gid- 
eon appears to have been an open uncovered space, 
upon which the dews of heaven fell without interrup- 
tion. See Tiiresiiing-floou. The miracle of Gid- 
eon’s fleece consists in the dew having fallen one time 
upon the fleece, without any on the floor, and that at 
another time the fleece remained dry while the ground 
was wet with it. See Gideon. It may appear a lit- 
tle improbable to us who inhabit northern climates, 
where the dews are inconsiderable, how Gideon’s fleece 
in one night should contract such a quantity of -water 
that, when he came to wring it, a howl-full was pro- 
duced ; but Kitto observes (Piet. Bible , note ad loc.), 
“We remember, while travelling in Western Asia, to 
have found all the baggage, which had been left in the 
open air, so wet, when we came forth from the tent in 
the morning, that it seemed to have been exposed to 
heavj" rain, and we could with difficulty believe that 
no rain had fallen. So also, when sleeping in the open 
air, the sheep-skin cloak which served for a covering 
has been found in the morning scarcely less wet than 
if it had been immersed in water.” See Dew 7 . 

Fleetwood, William, bishop of Ely, and one of 
the most eloquent preachers of his time, wasTiorn Jan- 
uary, 165G, in the. Tower of London, and was educated 
at Eton and King’s College, Cambridge. After hav- 
ing held the preferments of rector of St. Austin’s and 
canon of Windsor, he was made bishop of St, Asaph in 
1706, and -was translated to Ely in 1714. He died at 


593 


FLESH 


FLEMING 


Tottenham, Middlesex, Aug. 4, 1723. In politics he 
held liberal views. ITis principal works are, An Essay 
on Miracles (1701, 8vo) : — Inscriptionum Antiquarian 
Sylloge (1691, 8vo): — Chronicon Pretiosnm , or an Ac- 
count of English Money (1707): — Method of Devotion, 
translated from Jurieu (1692; of which the 27tli edi- 
tion appeared in 1750): — The Judgment of the Church 
of England concerning Lay Baptism (1712): — The Life 
and Miracles of St. Winifred (1713). llis sermons, etc., 
are gathered in A complete Collection of the Sermons, 
Tracts , etc., of Bp. Fleetwood (London, 1737, fol.) ; and 
there is a new edition of his Whole Works from the 
University Press (Oxford, 1854, 3 vols. 8vo). — New 
Gen. Biog. Did. v, 373; Allibone, Dictionary of Au- 
thors, p. 604. 

Fleming, Robert, sen., an eminent Scotch di- 
vine, was born at Tester in 1630. He studied philos- 
ophy at the University of Edinburgh, and divinity at 
St. Andrew’s, under Rutherford. His first pastoral 
charge was at Cambuslang, in Clydesdale. He was 
one of four hundred ministers ejected by the Glasgow 
Act after the restoration of Charles II. He was im- 
prisoned in the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, but was liber- 
ated in 1673, and went to Holland, where he succeeded 
Mr. Brown as pastor of the Scots congregation at Rot- 
terdam. He died July 15, 1694, leaving behind him 
several works, of which the most remarkable is The 
fulfilling of the Scriptures , complete in three parts : 1. 
Providence; 2. in the word; 3. in the Church (Lond. 
1726, 5th ed. fol.), with memoir of the author by D. 
Burgess. — Middleton, Biog. Evang. iv, 69. 

Fleming, Robert, jun., son of the above, was 
born at Cambuslang, and was educated at Leyden and 
Utrecht. In 1692 lie became minister of the Scottish 
church at Leyden. In 1694 he succeeded his father 
at Rotterdam, and in 1698 became minister at Loth- 
bury, London, where he died in 1716. He wrote a re- 
markable Discourse on the Rise and Fall of the Papacy , 
the predictions of which have received a singular ful- 
filment. In this sermon, published in 1701, Fleming 
ventures his opinion that the French monarchy would 
he humbled in 1794, that the period of the fifth vial 
extended from 1794 to 1848, and that in the last-men- 
tioned year the papacy would receive its most signal 
blow, and that it would be followed by the destruction 
of the Turk. The sermon was reprinted in 1848. He 
published also Christology, a Discourse concerning 
Christ (Lond. 1705-8, 3 vols. 8vo), in which he main- 
tains the eternal pre-existence of the human soul of 
Christ. — Jamieson, Religions Biography, p. 200; Dor- 
ner, Person of Christ , Edinb. transl., div. ii, vol. ii, p. 
329. 

Fleming, Thornton, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born at Williamsburg, Va., Oct., 1764; was 
converted at about twenty; entered the itinerant min- 
istry in 1788. He was set off with the Pittsburg Con- 
ference from the Baltimore Conference in 1825, super- 
annuated in 1834, and died at Elizabethtown, Pa., in 
1846. He was fifty-eight years in the ministry, fif- 
teen of which he was presiding elder. He possessed 
rare endowments as a man and a minister, and was 
widely useful in his life and labors. — J finales of Con- 
ferences, iv, 139 ; Stevens, Ilist. of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church. 

Flemingians or Flamingians. See Mennon- 
ites. 

Flemming, Paui>, a German poet and hymn 
maker, was born October 15, 1609, at llartenstein, in 
Schonburg, and studied medicine at Leipsic. In 1633 
he accompanied the embassy sent by the duke of Hol- 
stein to Russia, and in 1635 was attached to an embassy 
to Persia. He returned in 1639, and died in Hamburg 
April 2, 1640. llis Geistliche und weltliche Poemata 
(Jena, 1642) contain many love songs, and also sacred 
poems; among them the beautiful hymn In alien un- 
III.— P r 


seven Thaten, a translation of which is given in Miss 
Winkworth’s Lyra Germanica, second series, p, 149. 
His life, with his select poems, was published by 
Schwab (Stuttgard, 1820). See Knapp, Evangelischer 
Liederschatz (Stuttg. 1837), and Muller, in the Bibho- 
thek deutscher Dichter des 17 Juhrhundert (Lpz. 1822, 
3 vols.). — Chambers, Cyclopedia, s. v. 

FI elites, irpocicXaioi'Tcg, mourners or weepers , can- 
didates for penance in the early Church, 'llieir sta- 
tion was in the church porch, where they lay pros- 
trate, begging the prayers of the faithful as they went 
in, and desiring to be admitted to do public penance 
in the church. See Penitents. 

Flesh. 1. basar [Chald. ’“lb 2, besar~\ (so 

called from its plump freshness), <r«p£, terms of exten- 
sive application in the O. and N. T. (see Gesenius, 
I l eh. Lex .; Robinson, N. T. Lexicon ; Wemyss, Claris 
Symbolica). They are applied generally to the whole 
animal -creation, whether man or beast ; or to all be- 
ings *wliose material substance is flesh (Gen. vi, 13, 17, 
19; vii, 15, 16, 21 ; viii, 17) ; and to the flesh of cattle, 
meat, as used for food (Exod. xvi, 12 ; Lev. vii, 19 ; 
Numb, xi, 4, 13). See Food. Specially : 1. All flesh, 

i, e. all men, the human race, mankind (Gen. vi, 12 ; 
Psa. vi, 2; cxlv, 21; Isa. xl, 5, 6; Luke iii, 6; John 
xvii, 2 ; Acts ii, 17 ; 1 Pet. i, 24 ; Matt, xxiv, 22 ; Rom. 
iii, 20; Gal. ii, 16); 2. “Flesh,” or the body, as dis- 
tinguished from “soul” or “spirit” (Job xiv, 22; xix, 
26 ; Prov. xiv, 30 ; Isa. x, 18 ; John vi, 52 ; 1 Cor. v, 
5 ; 2 Cor. iv, 11 ; vii, 1 ; Colos. ii, 5 ; 1 Pet. iv, 6) ; so 
also “flesh and blood” [see Blood] as a periphrasis 
for the whole animal nature or man (Ileb. ii, 14); 3. 
Human nature, man (Gen. ii, 23, 24 ; Matt, xix, 5, 6 ; 
1 Cor. vi, 16 ; Eplies. v, 29-31) ; spoken also of the in- 
carnation of Christ (John i, 14; vi, 51; Rom.i, 3; Ephes. 

ii, 15 ; Colos. i, 22 ; 1 Tim. iii, 16 ; Heb. v, 7 ; x, 20 ; 1 
Pet. iii, 18 ; 1 John iv, 2, 3 ; 2 John 7) ; 4. As the me- 
dium of external or natural generation, and of conse- 
quent kindred, relationship (Gen. xxix, 14 ; xxxvii, 
27; Judg. ix, 2; 2 Sam. v, 1; xix, 13; John i, 13; 
Rom. ix, 8; Heb. ii, 11-14; xii, 9); of one’s country- 
men (Rom. ix, 3 ; xi, 14 ; Acts ii, 30 ; Gal. iv, 23) ; 
also of any other person, a fellow-mortal (Isa. lviii, 
7); 5. “Flesh” is also used as a modest general terra 
for the secret parts (Gen. xvii, 11; Exod. xxviii, 42; 
Lev. xv, 2, 3, 7, 16, 19; Ezek. xxiii, 20; 2 Pet. ii, 10; 
Jude 7) ; in Prov. v, 11, the “flesh” of the intemperate 
is described as being consumed by infamous diseases; 
6. Spoken of circumcision in the flesh, the external 
rite (Gen. xvii, 11; Rom. ii, 28; 2 Cor. xi, 18; Gal. 

iii, 3; Ephes. ii, 11) ; 7. Spoken figuratively of human 
nature as opposed to the Spirit of God (Gen. vi, 3 ; Job 
x, 4; Isa. xxxi, 3; Psa. lvi, 4; Jer. .xvii, 5; Matt, 
xvi, 17 ; 2 Cor. x, 4 ; Gal. i, 16) ; the unregenerate 
nature, the seat of carnal appetites and desires ( Meth . 
Quart. Rev. April, 1861, p. 240 sq.), whether physical 
or moral (Rom. vii, 5; viii, 1, 4, 5, 8 ; Gal. v, 16, 17 ; 
Ephes. ii, 3) ; and as implying weakness, frailty, im- 
perfection, both physical and moral (Psa. lxxviii, 39 ; 
Matt, xxvi, 41 ; Mark xiv, 38 ; John iii, 6 ; Rom. vi, 
19 ; 1 Cor. xv, 50 ; 2 Cor. x, 3 ; Ephes. vi, 12). 

Other terms occasionally rendered “ flesh” in the 
O. T. are sheer ' (from a similar idea of fulness ), 

Psa. Ixxiii, 26; lxxviii, 20, 27 ; Prov. xi, 17 ; Jer. Ii, 
35; Mic. iii, 2, 3 (elsewhere “food,” “body,” “kin”), 
which has more especial reference to the muscle or 
physical element, as food or a bodily constituent (see 
Weller, Erkldrung d. zioeihebr. Worter. "“1 1132 und 
Lpz. 1757) ; also !"iri22, tibchali , a slaughtered carcase 
(1 Sam. xxv, 11; “slaughter,” i. e. slaughter-house, 
Psa. xliv, 22; Jer. xii, 3); and D^nb, lechum , food 
(Zeph. i, 17 ; t{ eating,” Job xx, 23). 

2. Esiipar' (^QbN), an obscure Heb. word, found 
only in 2 Sam. vi, i9 ; 1 Chron. xvi, 3. The Sept, 
appears to understand by the term some peculiar sort 


FLESH 


594 


FLESH 


of bread (ttryapm/e, ApTOKOwtaKog v. r. dprojcoTTueot;), ] 
and the Auth. Vers., following the Yulg. ( assatura bu- 
bulie carnis , pars assm carnis bubuhe , apparently with 
the absurd derivation from 'CIX, fire, and a bullock), 
renders it “ a good piece of (roasted) flesh.^' But there 
can be little doubt that it was a certain measure of 
wine or drink (for “£*r, with X prosthetic), a measure , 
cup. An approach to the truth was made by L. de 
Dicu, who, following the same etymology, understands 
a portion of the sacrifice measured out (Gesenius, lleb. 
Lex. s. v.) See Meat. 

FLESH. The word flesh (^11, adpl) is used both 
in the 0. and N. T. with a variety of meanings, phys- 
ical, metaphysical, and ethical, the latter occurring 
especially in the writings of St. Paul. 

I. Old Testament. — In the 0. T. it designates (1.) a 

particularity or parts of the body of man and of ani- 
mals (Gen. ii, 21 ; xli, 2 ; Job x, il ; Psa. cii, G) ; (2.) 
ir. a more extended sense, the whole body (Psa. xvi, 9 ; 
lxxxiv, 2) in contradistinction from the heart (£^) or 
soul (r£3) — the body, that is, as possessed of a soul 
or spirit (Lev. xvii, 11 ; Job xii, 10). Hence it is also 
applied (3.) to all living things having flesh (Gen. vi, 13), 
and particularly to man and humanity as a whole, 
which is designated as u all fesk ” (Gen. vi, 12). It is 
often connected (4.) with the ideas of mutability, of 
degeneracy, and of weakness, which are the natural de- 
fects of the flesh proper. It is thus represented as the 
counterpart of the divine strength, as the opposite of 
God or of the Spirit, as in 2 Chron.. xxxii, 8, “ With 
him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God 
to help Ui" (see also Isa. xxxi, 3; Psa. lxxviii, 39). 
To this we can also add Gen. vi, 5, the only passage in 
the 0. T. in which the word approaches to an ethical 
sense, yet without actually acquiring it. The peculiar 
softness of the flesh is also (5.) the basis of the expres- 
sion “ heart of flesh'''' £^) as opposed to “ heart 

of stone" (Ezek. xi, 19). (G.) The expression ‘ £ my flesh" 
(oftener “my flesh and bone"'), to indicate relationship 
(Judg. ix, 2 ; Isa. lviii, 7\ evidently refers to the phys- 
ical and corporeal connection between persons sprung 
from a common father. In all these cases the 0. T. 
only uses the word flesh in the physical and metaphys- 
ical senses. 

II. New Testament. — These senses of the word “ flesh” 
are also found in the N. T. (1.) As a name for the 
body, the exterior appearance of humanity, it easily 
passes on also to denote external phenomena in general, 
as opposed to what is inner and spiritual. So, when 
Christ says to the Jews, “ I judge not after the flesh," 
he means “the flesh is the rule by which you judge” 
(John vii, 15; compare also Phil, iii, 3 ; 2 Cor. v, 1G). 
In Kom. iv, 1, the ethical sense appears. The word 
“flesh” here denotes man’s incapacity for good apart 
from divine aid. This impotence, both practical and 
spiritual, is also expressed in other passages, as in Rom. 
vi, 19; Matt, xvi, 17; and in Matt, xxvi, 41, where 
the lower, earthly, and sensual element in humanity, as 
opposed to the “spirit,” is, as such, incapable of bear- 
ing trial and temptation. The root of this weakness 
is sin du'dling in the flesh (Rom. vii, 18 ; xvii, 20), by 
which man is divided within himself as well as separ- 
ated from God, inasmuch as he has, on the one side, 
the self-conscious spirit (roug), which submits to the 
divine law, and takes pleasure in this obedience, desir- 
ing all that is commanded, and avoiding all that is for- 
bidden ; and, on the other hand, the flesh, which, being 
inhabited bv sin, seeks only for the lower satisfactions, 
thus inclining to evil rather than good, and opposed to 
the divine law (see Rom. vii, 7-25 ; viii, 3). The 11 sin- 
ful flesh" (aupt dfiapTiac) hinders the efficacy of the 
divine law, so that, although it (the law) gains the as- 
sent of the “inner man,” itlis not fulfilled, because of 
this tendency of the flesh towards what is forbidden. 
Hence the “ being : n the flesh" means, in fact, such ac- 


tivity of the sinful passions ( 'jraSiipara a/iaprtun >) of 
the organism (tV rob; ptXtaiv) as results in death 
(Rom. vii, 5 ; viii, 8, 9). To live and act “ according 
to the flesh" is to live and act sinfully; the “carnal 
mind is enmity against God” (Rom. viii, 4, 5, 7, 12). 
The “ wisdom according to the flesh" is a mistaken, God- 
less wisdom (1 Cor. i, 2G). All efforts, boasts, etc., 
having the flesh for object or for motive (j3ov\tvto$cu 
oTpartvtoSai, KavxaoSai Kara odpica, 2 Cor. i, 17 ; x, 

2 ; xi, 18), are foreign to the life of the true Christian. 
The lusts, desires, and ivories of the flesh are sinful, and 
opposed to holy, divine impulses and actions (Gal. v, 
1G; Eph. ii, 3). To crucify the flesh and the works of 
the flesh is the great object of the Christian, which he 
attains through the pow er of the spirit of Christ which 
dwells in him (Gal. v, 25; Rom. viii, 13). The fleshly 
mind is the mistaken mind, leading away from Christ 
to pride^ and consequently to error (Col. ii, 18, 19). 
Finally, to act according to the flesh is called to “ be 
sold under sin” (Rom. vii, 12; comp. 1 John ii, 1G; 
Rom. viii, 3). 

But “flesh” does not always denote sinfulness (see 
Rom. i, 3 ; ix, 5; 1 Tim. iii, 16; John i, 14). f Ihe 
flesh, in Christ, was not sinful ; God sent him only “in 
the likeness of sinful flesh” (iv opoab/ian aapKOQ cipap- 
riac, Rom. viii, 3). This sinless flesh, as the organ of 
the Word of life, contains the divine life, which is com- 
municated to men also living in the flesh, to redeem 
them from the death of sin, and to make them partak- 
ers of everlasting life (John vi, 51). 

We see, then, that the meaning of the word flesh 
was, on the one hand, gradually extended from a phys- 
ical to a metaphysical, and finally to an ethical sense. 
In the ethical use in the N. T., moreover, of the term 
“ flesh,” we do not find the idea of essential sin as ly- 
ing in the flesh. Flesh in itself is neither bad nor sin- 
ful. It is the living body, the casket of the soul, con- 
taining w ithin itself the interior and exterior organism 
of the senses, which, by its union with the spirit, con- 
ceives ideas, sensations, desires, and contains the so- 
called faculties of the soul with their divers functions. 
In the normal state, its whole activity is governed by 
the spirit, and in so far as the latter remains in unison 
with God from whom it proceeds, it is in turn govern- 
ed by him. But sin, which disturbs this unison of the 
spirit W’ith God, alters also the pow’er of the spirit over 
the body. The ego oversteps the bounds of the divine 
life, moves no longer in harmony with the divine spir- 
it, and, being no longer supported by the divine power, 
gradually becomes earthly and worldl}', and all its 
functions partake of this character. The spirit en- 
deavors, it is true, to bring the flesh under subjection 
to the higher laws, but does not succeed. It may, un- 
der the form of conscience, succeed in regaining some 
ground, but not in bringing back the state of abnega- 
tion and of detachment from the world. It is only 
through an immediate action on the part of God that 
the original relation of the flesh to the spirit is re- 
stored, the lost power regained, and the flesh brought 
back to its normal condition (And the Wal'd was made 
flesh, and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth, John 
1, 34). 

The original source of sin in man is neither to be 
found in the spirit, the organ of God’s revelation with- 
in us, nor in the flesh, which is in turn the physical or- 
gan of the spirit. According to Scripture, it is the 
heart, the centre of our personality, in which all the 
influences, both godly and ungodly, meet — in which the 
choice between them is made. If the heart then gives 
entrance to sin, permits any doubt of God’s truth, any 
mistrust of his love and kindness, and thus low ers him 
to put self in his place (Gen. iii), the union betw een 
God and man ceases; the inner man loses his energ}* 
to govern the crdpZ ; the flesh starts up in opposition 
to the divine commands in its feelings and its desires. 
It asserts its independence. Self is made the centre. 
Hence hatred, strife, desire for worldly superiority, 


FLESH AND BLOOD 595 FLETCHER 


creating envy, and giving rise to all the “lusts of the 
flesh.” That both selflshness and sensualism have 
their seat in the <x«p£, and that the actions of men are 
guided by one or the other, is clearly shown in the 
enumeration given by the apostle of the works of the 
flesh (Gal. v, 19), which are clearly the effects of self- 
ishness and of sinful passions ; and that the word 
nesh, as used by Paul, is intended to signify both, is 
proved by the apostle’s warning (Gal. v, 13) not to use 
Christian liberty for “an occasion to the flesh,” i. e. to 
satisfy the desires of the flesh, adding to it the recom- 
mendation “ but by love serve one another .” Whichever 
of the two is then especially alluded to when the Scrip- 
tures, and especially St. Paul, speak of the nature, the 
life, or the works of the flesh, the context will show. 
Sometimes both are equally active, sometimes the one 
only to the exclusion of the other. This is the only 
way in which we can arrive at a true appreciation of 
the meaning in each case. Those interpreters who, in 
view of the substitution of <rdp£ for aw/. la and pi\7], 
consider it as meaning exclusively the bodily, sinful 
side of human nature, fall into the errors of the Mani- 
chasans. See Tholuck, Erneute Untersuchung ii. 
als Quelle d. Siinde (Theol. Stud. u. Kritiken, 1855, 3); 
Stirm, i. d. Tub. Zeitschr. 1834 (ii. d. n. t. Anthropol.) ; 
Neander, Planting and Training , vol. ii ; Kling, in Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklopiidie, from which this article is con- 
densed ; Campbell, On Four Gospels , diss. i, § 2. 

Flesh and blood. An expression employed by 
our Lord to denote (after an Oriental figure) “ his 
Spirit,” represented by his flesh and blood, as these 
again are by the sacramental bread and wine (Eden). 
See Eucharist. 

Flesh-hook (r&J'Q, mazleg , and in^T'a, mizla- 
gah '), an instrument used in the sacrificial services (1 
Sam. ii, 13, 14; Exod. xxvii, 3; xxxviii, 3; Numb, 
iv, 14 ; 1 Chron. xxviii, 17 ; 2 Chron. iv, 1C), probably 
a many-pronged fork , bent backward to draw away 
the flesh. The priests required such an instrument 
that, if the flesh burnt too quickly, they might draw it 
out, and again throw it into the flame or upon the 
coals. The implement in 1 Sam. ii, 13, 14 (where the 



first or masc. form of the above Heb. term is used), is 
stated to have been three-tined, and was apparently 
the ordinary fork with prongs for culinary purposes, 
such as was familiar likewise to the Greeks and Ro- 
mans ( tcpiaypa ; see Smith’s Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. 
Harpago). 

Flesh-pot ObSil “P&, sir hab-basar pot of the 
flesh , Exod. xvi, 3), probably a bronze vessel, stand- 
ing on three legs, appropriated for culinary purposes 
among the Egyptians, such as we frequently see rep- 
resented in the paintings of the tombs, with a fire 
lighted beneath it. See Pot. 



Ancient Egyptian Flesh-pot. 


Fletcher, Alexander, D.D., was born at the 
Bridge of Teith, Scotland, in 1787. He studied divin- 
ity in the University of Glasgow, and succeeded his 


father as minister of the secession church at the Bridge 
of Teith in 1807. In 1808 he came to London to sup- 
ply the Presbyterian chapel in Miles’s Lane, and his 
popularity soon became so great that a spacious build- 
ing (Albion Chapel, Moorfields) was erected for him. 
Some indiscretion in a love affair caused him to be cut 
off from the Presbyterian Church, but did not injure 
his moral character. A great chapel in Finsbury Cir- 
cus was built for him, where he preached for many 
years as an Independent, but both he and his church 
were finally admitted into the Presbyterian body. 
The University of Glasgow made him D.D. During 
thirty years of service he was one of the most popular 
dissenting ministers of London, especially for his Sun- 
day-school addresses and sermons. He published a 
number of works, chiefly for children and youth, 
among them, Scripture Sacred History (16mo): — Scrip- 
ture Natural History (16mo) : — The Christian Conquer- 
or (12mo) : — Guide to Family Devotions (4to) : — Ser- 
mons for Children (3 vols. 18mo): — Warning to Evil 
Speakers (12mo) : — Sabbath Remembrancer (12mo) : — 
Sabbath-school Preacher (12mo). It is computed that 
70,000 copies of his Guide to Family Devotions were 
sold before his death. He died at his residence ill 
Clapton, Sept. 30, 1860. — The Christian World , Oct. 5, 
1860. 

Fletcher, John (Flechiere, John W. de La), 
an early Methodist and saintly minister of the Church 
of England, was horn Sept. 12, 1729, at Nyon,Vaud, of 
a distinguished family. He was educated at Geneva, 
where he studied profoundly both in philology and 
philosophy. At an early period he was, to a certain 
extent, master of the French, German, Latin, Greek, 
and Hebrew languages. His parents intended him 
for the ministry, but he preferred the sword, and at 
twenty he entered the service of Portugal as cap- 
tain. Peace returning, he went to England, and be- 
came tutor in the family of T. Hill, Esq., Shrop- 
shire. About 1755 he joined the Methodist society , 
and in 1757 he took orders in the Church of England. 
Through the influence of Rowland Hill, he received, 
three years after, a presentation to the living of Dun- 
ham, worth £400 a year ; but, finding that in this place 
there was “too much time and too little labor,” he, 
with characteristic zeal and disinterestedness, accept- 
ed Madeley in preference, as, though the income was 
just the half of the other, it afforded a more extensive 
sphere of usefulness. This was a situation for which, 
by his energy of character and varied accomplish- 
ments, he was peculiarly adapted. The fact is, ho 
was such a parish priest that it is surprising he was 
tolerated at all within the pale of the Church of Eng- 
land ; he belonged more to the Methodists than to the 
Establishment, and lie was too apostolical for those 
who are fondest of talking about apostolical succes- 
sion. The country gentlemen resisted him for re- 
proving some of their barbarous sports and pastimes, 
and even many of the clergy looked on him with an 
evil eye, as disturbing the quiet of their lifeless rou- 
tine. Opposition was shown to him in many quar- 
ters by refusals of admissions into honses — by pla- 
cards posted on the doors of his chapel — and in a 
variety of other forms. But, unmoved by slander 
and undaunted by menaces, he pursued the onward 
tenor of his way, and did his Master’s work accord- 
ing to the dictates of his conscience, whether men 
would hear or whether they would forbear. With 
incessant preaching he combined the most diligent 
pastoral labors. He went from house to house, sym- 
pathizing with the afflicted, helping the poor, minv 
istering to the sick, and admonishing the vicious. 
His liberality to the poor is said, by his successor in 
the parish, to have been scarcely credible. He led 
a life of severe abstinence that he might feed the 
| hungry; he clothed himself in cheap attire that he 
( might clothe the naked ; he sometimes unfurnished his 
house that he might supply suffering families with nec- 


FLETCHER 


596 


FLEURY 


esaary articles. Thus devoted to his holy office, he soon 
changed the tide of opposition -which had raged against 
him, and won the reverence and admiration of his peo- 
ple, and many looked upon their homes as consecrated 
by his visits. In the summer of 17G9 Mr. Fletcher 
visited France, Italy, and Switzerland. Towards the 
close of the summer he returned to England, when, 
at the request of Lady Huntingdon, he became presi- 
dent of her seminary for educating young men for the 
ministry at Trevecca, in Wales. In 1770 he went 
there to reside, but shortly afterwards resigned, on ac- 
count of some difference with Lady Huntingdon. Ben- 
son describes Fletcher at Trevecca in glowing terms: 
k ‘ The reader,” he says, “will pardon me if he thinks 
I exceed; my heart kindles -while I write. Here it 
was that I saw, shall I say, an angel in human flesh ? 
I should not far exceed the truth if I said so. But 
here I saw a descendant of fallen Adam so fully raised 
above the ruins of the fall, that though by the body he 
was tied down to earth, yet was his whole conversation 
in heaven; yet was his life from day to day hid with 
Christ in God. Prayer, praise, love, and zeal, all ar- 
dent, elevated above what one would think attainable 
in this state of frailty, were the elements in which he 
continually lived. Languages, arts, sciences, gram- 
mar, rhetoric, logic, even divinity itself, as it is called, 
were all laid aside when he appeared in the school- 
room among the students. And they seldom hearken- 
ed long before they were all in tears, and every heart 
caught fire from the flame that burned in his soul.” 
On leaving Trevecca he resumed his missionary and 
pastoral labors, making Madeley his centre. But his 
health failed, and again he was obliged to visit Switz- 
erland. He derived great benefit from the change of 
climate, and, soon after his return to England in 1781, 
he married. Mr. Fletcher had for many years seen, 
with regret and pain, the neglected condition of poor 
children, and he opened a school-room for them in 
Madeley Wood, which was the last public work in 
which he was employed. On the 14th of August, 
1785, he expired, in sure and certain hope of a joyful 
resurrection. In his life the primitive excellence of 
apostolical Christianity was emulated and illustrated: 
and if any man, since the apostolic time, has deserved 
the title of saint, it is Fletcher. “For a time he fell 
into asceticism, living on vegetables and bread, and 
devoting two whole nights each week to meditation 
and prayer, errors which he afterwards acknowledged. 
He received Wesley’s doctrine of Perfection, and not 
only wrote in its defense, but exemplified it through a 
life of purity, charity, and labor, which was as fault- 
less, perhaps, as -was ever lived by mortal man. 
Southey says : 1 No age or country has ever produced 
a man of more fervent piety or more perfect charity; 
no Church has ever possessed a more apostolic minis- 
ter’ ( Life of Wesley , ch. xxv). llis preaching is de- 
scribed as greatly effective. He spoke the English 
language not only with correctness, but with elo- 
quence. There was, says Gilpin, who heard him 
often, an energy in his discourse which was irresisti- 
ble ; to hear him without admiration was impossible. 
Powerful as are his writings, his preaching was mighti- 
er; ‘his living word soared with an eagle’s flight; he 
basked in the sun, carried his young ones on his 
wings, and seized the prey for his Master.’ lie was 
Wesley’s most ardent coadjutor among the clergy ; 
liis counsellor, his fellow-traveler at times in his evan- 
gelical itinerancy, an attendant at his Conferences, 
the champion of his theological views, and, above all, 
a saintly example of the life and power of Christianity 
as taught by Methodism, read and known, admired 
and loved by Methodists throughout the world. Made- 
lev, his vicarage, is familiar and dear to them next to 
Epworth itself” (Stevens, Methodism, i, 367, 422). He 
was eminent, also, as a controversial writer, for point, 
directness, acuteness, and logical skill. He wrote 
largely upon the CaWinistic controversy, against Top- 


lady and others ; and his writings, especially his 
Checks to A ntinomianism, are essential to the thorough 
study of that controversy. “Written as detached 
pamphlets, and abounding in contemporary and per- 
sonal references, the Checks could not possibly have 
the consistence and compactness of a thorough treatise 
on the difficult questions of the great ‘ Quinquarticu- 
lar Controversy.’ But they comprehend, neverthe- 
less, nearly every important thesis of the subject. 
Its highest philosophical questions — theories of the 
freedom of the will, prescience, fatalism — are elabo- 
rately discussed by them, as in the Remarks on Top- 
lady's Scheme of Necessity , and the Answer to Topladys 
Vindication of Decrees. The scriptural argument is 
thorough ; and exegetical expositions are given in de- 
tail, as in the Discussion of the ninth Chapter to the 
Romans , and the View of St. Paul's Doctrine of the first 
Chapter to the Ephesians. No writer has better bal- 
anced the apparently contradictory passages of Scrip- 
ture on the question. The popular argument has nev- 
er, perhaps, been more effectively drawn out. No po- 
lemical works of -a former age are so extensively cir- 
culated as these Cheeks. They are read more to-day 
than they were during the excitement of the contro- 
versy. They control the opinions of the largest and 
most effective body of evangelical clergjunen on the 
earth. They are staples in every Methodist publish- 
ing-house. Every Methodist preacher is supposed to 
read them as an indispensable part of his theological 
studies, and they are found at all points of the globe 
whither Methodist preachers have borne the cross. 
They have been more influential in the denomination 
than Wesley’s own controversial writings on the sub- 
ject; for he was content to pursue his itinerant work, 
replying but briefly to the Hills, and leaving the con- 
test to Fletcher” (Stevens, History of Methodism, ii, 
53-55). His Appeal to Matter of Fact and Common 
Sense is an admirable, and, in some respects, novel 
treatise on the doctrine of universal depravity. Mr. 
Fletcher’s English style is a marvel of purity and pre- 
cision, considering that he acquired the language after 
twenty. His writings have been collected in several 
editions in England, and also in America, under the 
title, The IForfo of the Rev. John Fletcher (New York, 
Methodist Book Concern, 4 vols. Svo). For his life, 
see Gilpin’s account, prefixed to Fletcher’s Portrait of 
St. Paul; and Benson’s Life of the Rev. J. IF. de la 
FUchi'ere (New York, 1833, 12mo). See also Stevens, 
History of Methodism, vols. i and ii; Jones, Christian 
Lioyraphy ; New York Review , i, 76. 

Fletchei, Joseph, D.D., an Independent minis- 
ter. was born at Chester in 1784. He entered Iloxton 
Academy in 1803, and the University of Glasgow in 
the following year. In 1807 he became minister of 
the Independent chapel at Blackburn, being at the 
same time engaged as theological tutor in an academy, 
and in 1823 he accepted a call as minister at Stepney. 
He died in 1813. 1 1 is principal writings were edited 

h}' the Kev. Joseph Fletcher, jun., under the title of 
Select llorLs and Memoirs (London, 1846, 3 vols. 8vo), 
including the Memoir, vol. i; essays on Uomanism and 
Puseyism, vol. ii ; Sermons, vol. iii. There appeared 
separately, A Discourse (Bom. viii, 3) on Spirituality 
of Alincl (London, 1824, 2d. ed. 8vo) : — A Discourse (1 
John ii, 18) on the Prophecies concerning Antichrist 
(Lond. 1825, Svo) : — Discourse (Jude 23), the Christian's 
Hope of Mercy (Lond. 1832, Svo).— Darling, Cyclopae- 
dia Bibliographica , s. v. 

Flenry, Claude, an eminent French historian 
and divine, was born in Paris Dec. 6, 1640. He was 
educated as an advocate at the College of Clermont, 
and became a counsellor of the Parliament of Paris in 
1658, but subsequently took orders, and, acquiring a 
great reputation for learning, he was appointed in 
1674 preceptor to the princess of Conti, and afterwards 
associated with Fenelon in educating the young dukes 


FLIEDNER 


597 


FLIEDNER 


of Burgundy”, Anjou, and Berri. lie was made mem- 
ber of the Academy ill 1G9G, and in 1707 obtained from 
Louis XIV the priory of Argenteuil, where he resided 
till 1716, when he left it to become confessor to Louis 
XV. He died July 14, 1723, greatly respected for his 
learning and his virtues. Ilis reputation rests chiefly 
upon his Church History , in twenty volumes, the first 
of which was published in 1691, and the last in 1722, 
ending with the year 1414. This work, as Fleury 
says in the preface, was meant to be rather a popular 
history than one of research and erudition ; but yet it 
is a clear and generally fair account of the progress 
of Christianity, and evinces a large amount of the 
proper talent of the historian. It is written from the 
Gallican stand-point. “ Fleury writes diffusely and 
in the spirit of a monk, but with taste and skill, in 
mild temper and strong love for the Church and Chris- 
tianity, and with a view always to edify as well as to 
instruct. lie follows the order of tiuie, though not 
slavishly, prefacing soma of his volumes with general 
characteristics. He also defends antiquity and the 
Gallican ecclesiastical constitution, without, however, 
surrendering at all the credit of the Church, its gen- 
eral tradition, or the necessity of the pope as its head. 
Ilis principal concern is with doctrine, discipline, and 
practical piety” (Schaff, Apost. Church , § 26). Fleury, 
as a writer of Church history, is not at all in favor 
with Ultramontinists ; a specimen of their feeling to- 
wards him is given by the Univers (Paris) for July 8, 
1856, which calls him “ the worthless and hateful 
Fleury, so ardent and furious in his calumnies and 
spite against the pope !” Ilis Church History was con- 
tinued by Fabri, but feebly, down to A.D. 1598. The 
best edition is Histoire Ecclesiastique arec continuation 
par Fabri et Gonyet (Paris, 1769-74, 36 vols. ; indexes, 
4 vols. ; in all, 40 vols. 12mo). A very good recent 
edition is th it of Didier (Paris, 1840, 6 vols. 8vo). A 
translation by Herbert, up to the 9th century, -was 
published in London (1727, 5 vols. 4to); and a partial 
translation by liev. J. II. Newman appeared in 1842-44 
(3 vols. 8vo). The Abrege da V Histoire Ecclesiastique 
dz Fleury , published at Berne in 1776, is ascribed to 
Frederick the Great. Ilis other writings were very 
numerous; the most important are, Mceurs des Chre- 
tiens (Paris, 1682) : — Moeurs des Israelites (Paris, 1681), 
which was translated and published, with additions, 
by Dr. Adam Clarke (Manchester, 1805 ; New York, 
1836) : — Institution da droit ecclesiastique (Paris, 1771, 2 
vols. 12mo) : — Discours sur les libertes de I'Eylise Galli- 
cane. His minor works are collected in Martin’s edi- 
tion of (Euvres de I'abbe Fleury (1837, imp. 8vo), to 
which is prefixed a life of Fleury. Jortin translated 
his Discourse on Eccles. History from 600 to 1100 (see 
Jortin, Remarks on Ecclesiastical History , Lond. 1773, 
v, 72 sq.). See also Dupin, Ecclesiust. Writers , cent.- 
xvii; Hoefer, Four. Biog. Generate, xvii, 916; Dow- 
ling, On the Study of Ecclesiastical History, ch. iii. 

Fliedner, Theodor, a German philanthropist, 
was born at Eppstein, Ilhenish Prussia, in 1798, where 
his father was pastor. His early education was con- 
ducted by his father, and he entered the ministry with 
some misgiving, rather doubting his litness, and choos- 
ing rather the function of teacher. But in 1820 a call 
to the pastorate of the little village community of Kai- 
serswerth, a small town on the Rhine, opened his way, 
and he diffidently began his work in the place now 
forever -associated with his name, and which became, 
under his hand, the centre of an influence approach- 
ing that of Wesley himself, whose power of endurance, 
faith, and incessant labor Fliedner rivalled. The in- 
habitants of Kaisers werth were chiefly supported by 
a large manufactory, which failed in 1822. Fliedner 
devoted himself to the work of helping his flock in- 
stead of being supported by them. “ Never did a man 
begin to ask for help with a heavier heart, nor with 
worse success, till a brother pastor at Klberfeldt took 
him home to dinner, and told him that the three requi- 


sites for his work were ‘ patience, impudence, and a 
ready tongue.’ The receipt, to which Fliedner added 
much prayer and much faith, proved so successful that 
he was spoken of before his death as the most accom- 
plished beggar ever known in Germany. England, 
America, and many distant regions learned to pour 
their contributions into his wallet, aud often his worst 
necessities were relieved by what seemed almost mi- 
raculous unsolicited gifts, which exactly answered the 
demands upon him.” In 1823 he visited England on 
a begging excursion, and there became acquainted with 
Elizabeth Fry and with her benevolent movements. 
See Fry, Elizadeth. On his return he examined 
the prisons of his neighborhood, and found them in a 
wretched state. “ The convicts were crammed togeth- 
er in narrow, dirty cells, often in damp cellars without 
light or air; boys who had fallen into crime from 
thoughtlessness -were mixed up with hoary, cunning 
sinners ; young girls with the most corrupt old women. 
There was absolutely no classiflcation ; even accused 
persons waiting for trial, who might soon be released 
again as innocent, were placed with criminals who 
might be undergoing a lengthened term of imprison- 
ment. There was as good as no supervision at all ; 
as long as the jailers allowed no one to escape, they 
had fulfilled their duty.” For more than two years 
Fliedner tried to bridge the gulf which lay between 
this criminal class and the rest of the community in 
his own person, visiting, teaching, reorganizing, and 
in 1826 he founded the first German society for im- 
proving prison discipline. “ Seeking a matron for 
the female wards at Dusseldorf, he found his wife, 
whose parents refused to let her take the position 
first offered to her, but approved her acceptance of 
the young pastor himself, although the second in- 
volved all the duties of the first. In 1833 he took a 
poor creature released from prison into a summer-house 
in his garden, and so practically started a scheme 
which had for some time been in his mind, to provide 
a refuge for such women as desired to reform on the 
expiration of their sentences. A friend of Mrs. Flied- 
ner’s came to take charge of this minute beginning, 
and assumed the title of deaconess. The summer- 
house gave way to a house, the deaconess got compan- 
ions, and the establishment grew. Then the thought of 
founding an order of deaconesses for the care of the sick 
poor dawned upon him. He bought a house in 1836, 
having no money, but a vast amount of faith. The 
same maybe said of all his subsequent enlargements 
of liis borders. His hospital -was started with one ta- 
ble, some broken chairs, a few worn knives and two- 
pronged forks, worm-eaten bedsteads, seven sheets, and 
four severe cases of illness. The effort soon flourished 
under royal favor.” In 1838 Fliedner first sent dea- 
conesses from his establishment to work in other places ; 
they spread, fresh mother-houses multiplied, till now 
there are 139 stations. (For statistics, see Deacon- 
esses, vol. ii, p. 709.) In 1849 he visited America, 
and travelled widely. He founded a “house” at Pitts- 
burg, Pennsylvania. “ In the course of his life Flied- 
ner established at Kaiserswerth schools, training col- 
leges for middle-class school-mistresses as well as for 
governesses, a lunatic asylum, a boy’s school, and a 
training college for schoolmasters. The hospital, the 
asylum, the schools, are all utilized for the training of 
deaconesses, whom Fliedner frequently taught himself 
by the example of his wonderful gifts for interesting 
the young. Comical stories might be told of his do- 
ings in his infant-schools, where he would fall pros- 
trate by way of illustration of the story of Goliath, dis- 
tribute bread and honey to fix the excellence of the 
heavenly manna on the children’s minds, or suddenly 
send a boy under the table to vivify his tale of the fall 
of a traveller over a precipice. His labors lasted till 
his death. He died at Kaiserswerth, Oct. 4, 1864, worn 
out by journeys in Germany, France, Great Britain, and 
America, which had brought on disease of the lungs. 


FLIES 


598 


FLOAT 


To the very last day of his life, he continued, in spite 
of painful weakness, to exhort those near him to a re- 
ligious and earnest life, took keen interest in the de- 
tails of daily work going on around him, and died a 
day or two after taking the communion with his whole 
establishment and family, including two sons, whose 
entrance into the Church he specially rejoiced to see.” 
Fliedner published (after 183G) annual reports of his 
institution, and a monthly periodical called BerArmen- 
und Krankenf reund. lie also wrote a work, in four 
volumes, on the martyrs of the Evangelical Church, 
Buck der Miirtyrer und anderer Glaubenszeugen der 
evangel. Kirche von den Aposteln bis auf unsere Zeit , 
1S52-18G0, 4 vols . — London Quarterly Review , April, 
18G8, p. 247 ; Spectator , April 11, 18G8 ; Wink worth, 
Life of Pastor Fliedner (Lond. 1867); Appleton, Am. 
Cyclop. (18G4), p. 377. 

Flies. See Fly. 

Flinn, Andrew, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Maryland in 1773, graduated at the Uni- 
versity of North Carolina in 1799, and was licensed to 
preach by Orange Presbytery in 1800. In 1803 he be- 
came pastor of the Presbyterian church at Fayette- 
ville, and in 1811 lie was installed pastor of a new 
church, expressly organized for him, in Charleston, 
S. C. Here he gained a brilliant and solid reputation, 
which was soon widel} r diffused throughout the coun- 
try. He was “one of the most impressive and attrac- 
tive preachers of his day.” He died Feb. 24, 1820. 
He printed a few occasional sermons. — Sprague, An- 
nals, iv, 27 G. 

Flint (dv^bn, challamish ', from its smoothness , 
Psa. cxiv, 8; Isa. 1, 7; “rock,” Job xxviii, 9; fre- 
quently with the accompaniment “1-12, a rock, Dent, 
viii, 15; xxxii, 13; once for ’"]£ itself, Ezek. iii, 9; 
“sharp stone,” Exod. iv, 25), any hard stone, espe- 
cially of a silicious character, as quartz or granite ; 
but in mineralogical science it is applied only to sili- 
eions nodules. In the three passages first cited above 
the reference is to God’s bringing water and oil out of 
the naturally barren rocks of the wilderness for the 
sake of his people. In Isaiah the word is used meta- 
phorically to signify the firmness of the prophet in re- 
sistance to his persecutors. So also in Isa. v, 28 we 
have like flint , in reference to the hoofs of horses. In 
1 Macc. x, 73, Kox^aZ is translated flint, and in Wisd. 
xi, 4 the expression Ik i rirpag ciKporopov is adopted 
from Deut. viii, 15 (Sept.). See IIock. Flints abound 
in nearly all the plains and valleys through whieh the 
Hebrews marched during the forty years of wandering. 
In the northward desert, low hills of chalk occur, as 
well as frequent tracts of chalky soil, for the most part 
overspread with flints. In the western desert Burck- 
hardt saw some large pieces of flint perfectly oval, 
three to four feet in length, and about a foot and a 
half in breadth. This desert presents to the traveller’s 
view its immense expanse of 
dreary country, covered with 
black flints, with here and there 
some hilly chains rising from 
the plain. See Desert. 

Flint, Abel, D.D., a Con- 
gregational minister, was born 
Nov., 1705, at Windham, Conn, 
lie graduated at Yale in 1785, 
and in 178G was elected tutor 
in Brown University, where he 
remained until 1790, and on 
April 20, 1791, was installed 
pastor of the Second Church, 

Hartford. He was chosen sec- 
retary of the Connecticut Mis- 
sionary Society at its organiza- 
tion, June, 1798, aud held the 


office for twenty-four years. In January, 1824, he was 
dismissed from his pastoral charge on account of his 
failing health, and died March 7, 1825. Dr. Flint pub- 
lished A Treatise on Surveying , and several occasional 
discourses. He assisted in compiling The Hartford 
Selection of Hymns , and was also assistant editor of the 
Connecticut Evangelical Magazine for seven yours. — 
Sprague, Annals , ii, 273. 

Float (only in the plur. lYTiin, doberoth ' , drifts , 
1 Kings v, 9; rmbEH, raphsodom , of uncertain der- 
ivation, 2 Chron. ii, 15 ; Sept, in both passages <7\eciai, 
as also in 1 Esdr. v, 55), a raft for conveying bulky 
substances by water. Two methods of conveying 
wood in floats appear to have been practised in an- 
cient times. The first was by pushing single trunks 
of trees into the water, and suffering them to be car- 
ried along by the stream : this was commonly adopted 
with regard to firewood. The other was ranging a 
number of planks close to each other in regular order, 
binding them together, and steering them down the 
current : this was probably the most ancient practice. 
The earliest ships, or boats, were nothing more than 
rafts, or a collection of deals and planks bound to- 
gether. They were called Mai by the Greeks, and 
rates by the Romans. The ancients ventured out to 
sea with them on piratical expeditions, as well as to 
carry on commerce ; and after the invention of ships 
they were still retained for the transportation of sol- 
diers (Scheffer, Be Milit. Nav. Yet.'). Solomon, it ap- 
pears from the above passages, entered into a contract 
with Hiram, king of Tyre, by which the latter was to 
cause cedars for the use of the Temple to be cut down 
on the western side of Mount Lebanon, above Tripo- 
lis, and to be floated to Jaffa. At present no streams 
run from Lebanon to Jerusalem, and the Jordan, the 
only river in Palestine that could bear floats, is at a 
considerable distance from the cedar forest. The wood, 
therefore, must have been brought along the coast by 
sea to Jaffa. The Assyrian monuments represent men 



Ancient Assyriau Floats. 


crossing rivers on inflated skins [see Ferry] and in 
basket-boats, precisely as described by ancient authors 
(Herod, i, 194); and in the same region transportation 
and travelling is still largely carried on by means of 
floats, some of them open rafts, and others with ait 
awning or cabin. See Navigation. 



Modern Assyrian Kellek , or Raft. 


FLOCK 


599 


FLOOD 


Flock (usually and properly “nr, e der, no ipvi) 
[or dimin. iroiyviov, a “little flock,” like T^wH, cka - 
siph', 1 Kings xx, 27]; occasionally •"rtp'E, mikneh ' , 
cattle , as generally rendered ; frequently sheep 

collectively, as commonly rendered ; also r^r“i^ 5 
marlth ', Jer. x, 21, pasture , as elsewhere rendered; 
and rVHITrr, ashtcroth' [q. v.], Dent, vii, 13; xxviii, 
4, 18, 51, i. e. Venuses , ewes for breeding). See Fold ; 
Pasturage; Sheep. 

Flock, the correlative term to “pastor.” “The 
way in which this term, or the language which implies 
it, invariably occurs in Scripture (1 Pet. v, 2; John 
xxi, 15), points out to the people that they are not proj)- 
erly the minister’s flock (which would exalt him into 
the mediator between them and God), but Christ’s.” — 
Eden, Church Dictionary , s. v. 

Flodoard (Flodoardus or Frodoardus ) of Rheims, 
a French chronicler, was born at Epernay in 894, and 
became canon of Rheims. He was persecuted by count 
Heribert for opposing the raising of his unqualified 
son Hugo to the archbishopric of Rheims, and was im- 
prisoned for several months. After the death of the 
count, Hugo the son did justice to Flodoardus. He 
died March 28, 966. lie wrote Chronica or Annates, a 
chronicle of France from 919 to 966, published by Pi- 
thou (Paris, 1588). lie also wrote a Historia Ecclesice 
Remensis , in four hooks, giving an account of the pre- 
lates w r ho had presided over its affairs (printed by Col- 
vener, Donay, 1617). Both these works, as far as ex- 
tant, are given in Migne, Patrologia Latina , vol. 135, 
together with the Opnscula Metrica of Flodoard, in- 
cluding his Triumphus Christi , a sort of Church History 
in verse. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xvii, 936 ; Clarke, 
Succession of Sawed Literature , ii, 565. 

Floh, Jacob Hendrik, was born in the year 1758, 
at Crefeld. He studied theology in the Baptist semi- 
nary in Amsterdam. He was invited in 1783 to take 
charge of the Baptist church at Enschede. Here he 
labored between forty and fifty years. He w f as a man 
of extensive knowledge and of a ready wit, and w r as 
indefatigable in his labors. He contributed greatly 
to promote the cause of education in the section of the 
country where he w r as located. Several valuable es- 
says w’ere written by him on the subject of education. 
One, on the Best Theory of Punishments and Rewards in 
Schools , received the prize from the Maatschappy tot 
nut van ’t algemeen. Several w'orks on other sub- 
jects w'ere wTitten by him. One, on the Indissoluble 
Connection between Virtue and true Happiness , w’as crowd- 
ed by the same society. Another, on a kindred sub- 
ject, w r e deem worthy of mention here : National Hap- 
piness cannot Exist without national Virtue. For a few' 
years Floli allowed himself to be drawm aside from 
his ministerial vocation to engage in political life. In 
1796 he was chosen representative of the people in the 
National Convention at the Hague. In 1798 he w'as 
chosen secretary of the first chamber of the represent- 
ative body of the Batavian people. He acquitted him- 
self in these positions with great credit. His theolog- 
ical views w'ere Latitudinarian. His principal works 
are, Proere eener beredeneerde v erldaring der geschiedenis 
vans Ileilands verzoeldng inde woestijn , Deventer, 1790; 
lets over bedestonden , 1817. His attack on the Heidel- 
berg Catechism, as teaching, in the answer to the fifth 
question, a doctrine dangerous to the state, made in 
the National Assembly at the Hague, was regarded as 
highly injudicious, and excited great indignation. It 
elicited a triumphant reply from the pen of Ew-aldus 
Kist, one of the most highly esteemed ministers of the 
Reformed Church. Floh attempted no reply. It was 
thought that he was himself convinced by the moder- 
ate and judicious reply of Kist. We may add in hon- 
or of Floh that this attack of his was regarded as an 
exception to his otherwise impartial conduct as a pub- 
lic representative. He died at Enschede in March, 


1S30. See B. Glasius, Godgeleerd Nederland , i Deel, biz. 
467 en verv. ; Ypev en Dermont’s Geschiedenis der Ne- 
derlandsche Ilervormde Kerb, iv Deel, biz. 206 en verv. 
(Breda, 1827). (J. 1\ W.) 

Flohr, George Daniel, a minister of the Luther- 
an Church, was a native of Germany, born in 1759. 
He died in Wytlieville, Va., in 1826. He studied med- 
icine in Paris, and was one of the throng that witness- 
ed the execution of Louis XVI. The accidental but 
tragical death of an individual in the crowd standing 
near him, part of whose mangled body w T as thrown 
upon his person, most deeply affected him, and so op- 
erated upon his mind as to lead him to change all his 
purposes and plans for the future. This was the turn- 
ing-point in his character. A train of serious thought 
was awakened which resulted in his conversion, and 
subsequent consecration to the work of the ministry. 
Soon after he came to America, and pursued the study 
of theology under the direction of the Rev. William 
Carpenter, Madison County, Va. After his licensure 
to preach the Gospel, he engaged in successful mission- 
ary service in south-western Virginia, but eubsequent- 
ly took charge of several congregations in Wythe 
County, among whom he faithfully labored till his 
death. Mr. Flohr exercised an extraordinary influ- 
ence not only upon the members of his church, but 
upon all classes of society. When difficulties occurred 
in the community they were always referred to him 
for adjustment, and from his decision scarcely any one 
ever thought of an appeal. The basis of this influence 
W'as the unlimited confidence which every one had in 
his personal worth and Christian integrity. So far as 
his professional engagements allowed, Mr. Flohr was 
devoted to study. His acquaintance with the German 
and French was extensive and thorough, and his at- 
tainments in Latin and Greek considerable. The only 
w r oik of his ever published was a posthumous volume 
of sermons. (M. L. S.) 

Flood (the rendering of several Heb. words [see 
Rain], but especially of mabbul ', mraicXvogoc), 

an event related in the book of Genesis (ch. vii and 
viii), by which, according to the usual interpretation of 
the description, the w hole world was overwhelmed and 
every terrestrial creature destroyed, with the exception 
of one human family and the representatives of each 
species of animal, supernaturallv preserved in an ark, 
constructed by divine appointment for the purpose. 
See Ark. 

1. The successive stages of its progress w ere in order 
and at intervals as follows. In the 600th year of his 
life, Noah w'as commanded to enter the ark, taking 
with. him his wife, and his three sons with their wives. 
One week afterwards, on the 17th day of the 2d month 
(answering nearly to our November), there began a 
forty-days’ rain, and the fountains of the great deep 
w ere broken up, so that its waters rose over the land 
until all the high hills under the w r hole heavens were 
covered. Fifteen cubits (twenty-seven feet) upward 
did the waters prevail (rise). On the 17th day of the 
7th month (about April), or 150 days after the deluge 
began, the ark rested on the mountains of Ararat, or 
Armenia, the waters having begun to abate. They 
continued to decrease till the 1st day of the 10th month 
(July), when the tops of the mountains were visible. 
Forty days after this, Noah sent forth a raven from the 
ark, w r hich never returned. He next (apparently after 
seven days) sent forth a dove, which came back. 
Seven days afterwards he dispatched the dove again to 
ascertain the state of the earth, and in the evening she 
returned with an olive-leaf in her mouth. After an 
interval of seven days the dove was sent forth a third 
time, and returned no more. On the first day of the 
1st month of the new r year (Sept.-Oct.) the waters 
were dried from oft’ the earth, and on the 27th day of 
the 2d month (Nov.) Noah came out of the ark, built 
an altar, and offered sacrifice. See Noah, 


FLOOD 


600 


FLOOD 


2. The truth of the Mosaic history of the deluge is j 
confirmed by the tradition of it which universally ob- 
tained. A tradition of the deluge, in many respects 
accurately coinciding with the Mosaic account, has 
been preserved almost universally among the ancient 
nations. It is a very remarkable fact concerning the 
deluge that the memory of almost all nations begins 
lvifch the history of it, even of those nations which were 
unknown until they were discovered by enterprising 
voyagers and travellers; and that traditions of the 
deluge were kept up in all the rites and ceremonies 
of the Gentile world ; and it is observable that, the 
farther we go back, the more vivid the traces appear, 
especially in those countries which were nearest to the 
scene of action. Such narratives have formed part of 
the rude belief of the Egyptians, Chaldaeans, Greeks, 
Scythians, and Celtic tribes. They have also been 
discovered among the Peruvians and Mexicans, the 
aborigines of Cuba, North America, and the South-Sea 
Islands. See Ararat. 

3. The account furnished by the sacred historian is 
circumstantially distinct, and the whole is expressly 
ascribed to divine agency : but in several of the lesser 
particulars secondary causes, as rain, “the opening of 
the windows of heaven” (vii, 11), and the “breaking 
up of the fountains of the great deep,” are mentioned, 
and again the effect of wind in drying up the waters 
(viii, 1). It is chiefly to be remarked that the whole 
event is represented as both commencing and termina- 
ting in the most gradual and quiet manner, without 
anything at all resembling the catastrophes and con- 
vulsions often pictured in vulgar imagination as ac- 
companying it. When the waters subsided, so little 
was the surface of the earth changed that the vegeta- 
tion continued uninjured; the olive-trees remained from 
which the dove brought its token. We allude partic- 
ularly to these circumstances in the narrative as being 
those which bear most upon the probable nature and 
extent of the event, which it is our main object in the 
present article to examine, according to the tenor of 
what little evidence can be collected on the subject, 
whether from the terms of the narrative, or from other 
sources of information which may be opened to ns by 
the researches of science. See Cockbnrn, Inquiry into 
the Truth and Certainty of the Mosaic Deluge (London, 
1750), 

The evidence which geology maydisclo.se, and which 
can in any degree bear on our present subject, must, 
from the nature of the case, be confined to indications 
of superficial action attributable to the agency of wa- 
ter, subsequent to the latest period of the regular geo- 
logical formations, and corresponding in character to 
a temporary inundation of a quiet and tranquil nature, 
of a depth sufficient to cover the .highest mountains, 
and, lastly (ns indeed this condition implies), extend- 
ing over the whole globe ; or, if these conditions should 
not be fulfilled, then indications of at least something 
approaching to this, or with which the terms of the 
description may be fairly understood and interpreted 
to correspond. (Sec Prof. Hitchcock, on “The His- 
torical and Geological Deluges compared,” in the Bib. 
Repos. January, 1837; April, 1837; April, 1838; also 
Brown’s translation of “twelve dissertations” [on the 
Flood j out of Le Clerc [Commentary, i, GG-70, 1710] 
on Genesis, London, 1G9G.) Of those geological facts 
which seem to hear at all upon such an inquiry, the 
first, perhaps, which strikes us is the occurrence of 
what was formerly all included under the common 
name of diluvium , but which more modern research has 
separated into many distinct classes. The general 
term may, however, not inaptly describe superficial ac- 
cumulations, whether of soil, sand, gravel, or loose ag- 
gregations of larger blocks, which are found to prevail 
over large tracts of the earth's surface, and are mani- 
festly superinduced over the deposits of different ages, 
with which they have no connection. An examina- 
tion of the contents of this accumulated detritus soon 


showed the diversified nature of the fragments of which 
it is composed in different localities. The general re- 
sult, as bearing on our present subject, is obviously 
this: the traces of currents, and the like, which the 
surface of the earth does exhibit, and which might be 
ascribed to diluvial action of some kind, are certainly 
not the results of one universal simultaneous submerg- 
ence, but of many distinct, local, aqueous forces, for the 
most part continued in action for long periods, and of 
a kind precisely analogous to such agency as is now 
at work. While, further, many parts of the existing 
surface show no traces of such operations ; and the 
phenomena of the volcanic districts prove distinctly 
that during the enormous periods which have elapsed 
since the craters were active, no deluge could possibly 
have passed over them without removing all those 
lighter portions of their exuviae which have evidently 
remained wholly untouched since they were ejected. 
Upon the whole, it is thus apparent that wc have no 
evidence whatever of any great aqueous revolution at 
any comparatively recent period having affected the 
earth’s surface over any considerable tract: changes, 
doubtless, may have been produced on a small scale in 
isolated districts. The phenomena presented by caves 
containing bones, as at Ivirkdale and other localities, 
are not of a kind forming any breach in the continuity 
of the analogies by which all the changes in the sur- 
face are more and more seen to have been carried on. 
But a recent simultaneous influx of water covering the 
globe, and ascending above the level of the mountains, 
must have left indisputable traces of its influence, 
which not only is not the case, but against which we 
have seen positive facts standing out. Such traces 
must especially be expected to be found in the masses 
of human remains which such a deluge must have im- 
bedded in the strata of soil and detritus, if these were 
formed by that event. Now it is quite notorious that 
no bed indisputably attributable to diluvial action has 
ever been found containing a single bone or tooth of 
the human species. We must therefore contend that 
no evidence has yet been adduced of any deposit which 
can be identified with the Noachian deluge. See Ge- 
ology. 

Apart from the testimonies of geology, there are 
other sciences which must be interrogated on such a 
subject. These are, chiefly, terrestrial physics, to as- 
sign the possibility of a supply of water to stand all 
over the globe five miles in depth above the level of 
the ordinary sea ; natural history, to count the myri- 
ads of species of living creatures to be preserved and 
continued in the ark; mechanics, to construct such a 
vessel ; with some others not less necessary to the 
case. But we have no space to enter more minutely 
on such points : the reader will find them most clear- 
ly and candidly stated in I)r. Pye Smith’s Geology and 
Bcripture, etc., p. 130, 2d edit. See Ark. 

Let us now glance at the nature and possible solu- 
tions of the difficulty thus presented. We believe only 
two main solutions have been attempted. One is that 
proposed by Dr. Pye Smith (ib. p. 201), who expressly 
contends that there is no real contradiction between 
these facts and the description in the Mosaic record, 
when the latter is correctly interpreted. This more cor- 
rect interpretation then refers, in the first instance, to 
the proper import of the Scripture terms commonly 
taken to imply the universality of the deluge. These 
the author shows, by a large comparison of similar 
passages, are only to he understood as expressing a 
great extent ; often, indeed, the very same phrase is ap- 
plied to a very limited region or country, as in Gen. 
xli, 5G ; Dent, ii, 25; Acts ii, 5, etc. Thus, so far as 
these expressions are concerned, the description may 
apply to a local deluge. Next, the destruction of the 
, whole existing human race does not by any means im- 
| ply this universality, since, by ingenious considera- 
tions as to the multiplication of mankind at the al- 
[ leged era of the deluge, the author lias shown that they 


FLOOD 


601 


FLOOD 


probably had not extended beyond a comparatively | 
limited district of the East. A local destruction of an- 
imal life would also allow of such a reduction of the 
numbers to be included in the ark as might obviate [ 
objections on that score ; and here again the Oriental 
idiom may save the necessity of the literal supposition 
of every actual species being included. This is a con- 
sideration of very great importance when we take into 
account the countless varieties of animated beings for 
which the ark itself made no provision, such as rep- 
tiles, insects, and even fishes, which could not exist in 
the brackish waters, even if they survived the collis- 
ions of the Hood. The other difficulties above alluded 
to, arising from kindred sciences, such as the lack of 
water, the effect of so large an accession of water upon 
the temperature and upon the rotation of the earth, 
the unfitness of such a place as the ark for the long 
confinement of so many animals, the actual existence 
of trees in different parts of the world older than the 
deluge, and the impossibility of preserving even veg- 
etable life for so long a time under water, are all like- 
wise obviated by the supposition of a local deluge. 
Again, the difficulties in the way of the descent of 
so many animals from so lofty, bleak, and craggy a 
mountain as Ararat, and their dissemination thence 
over all the world, are obviated in this way, by sup- 
posing that it was on one of its lower eminences that 
the ark grounded, as it floated by the force of the 
southerly irruption towards the great mountain bar- 
riers of Armenia. Lastly, this author suggests con- 
siderations tending to fix the region which may have 
been the scene of the actual inundation described by 
Moses in about that part of AVestern Asia where there 
is a large district now considerably depressed below 
the level of the sea (see the Bibliotheca Sacra , July, 
18G7, p. 4G5) : this might have been submerged by the 
joint action of rain, and an elevation of the bed of the 
Persian and Indian Seas. Finally, he quotes the opin- 
ions of several approved divines in confirmation of 
such a view, especially as bearing upon all the essen- 
tial religious instruction which the narrative is calcu- 
lated to convey. 

The only other mode of viewing the subject is that 
which, accepting the letter of the scriptural narrative, 
makes the deluge strictly universal ; and allowing (as 
they must be allowed) all the difficulties, not to say 
contradictions, in a natural sense, involved in it, ac- 
counts for them all by supernatural agency. In fact, 
the terms of the narrative, strictly taken, may perhaps 
be understood throughout as representing the whole 
event, from beginning to end, as entirely of a miracu- 
lous nature. If so, it may be said, there is an end to 
all difficulties or question, since there are no limits to 
omnipotence, and one miracle is not greater than an- 
other. In a word, if we suppose the flood to have been 
miraculously produced, and all the difficulties thus 
overcome, we must also suppose that it was not only 
miraculously terminated also, but every trace and mark 
of it su pern atu rally effaced and destroyed. Now, con- 
sidering the immense amount of supernatural agency 
thus rendered necessary, this hypothesis has appeared 
to some quite untenable. Dr. Pye Smith, in particu- 
lar (whom no one will suspect of any leaning to scepti- 
cism), enlarges on the difficulty (p. 157, and note), and 
offers some excellent remarks on the general question 
of miracles (p. 84-89) ; and there can be no doubt that, 
however plausible may be the assertion that all mir- 
acles are alike, yet the idea of supernatural agency to 
so enormous an amount as in the present instance is, 
to many minds at least, very staggering, if not wholly 
inadmissible. In fact, in stre telling the argument to 
such an extent, it must be borne in mind that we may 
be trenching upon difficulties in another quarter, and 
not sufficiently regarding the force of the evidence on 
whieh any miracles are supported. See Miracle. 

If we look to the actual tenor of the w hole narrative 
as delivered by Moses (Gen. viii and ix), w’e shall ob- 


serve that the manifest immediate purport of it is the 
same as that of the rest of the early portion of his his- 
tory, viz. as forming part of the introeluction to the 
law t . Thus we find, in the first instance, the narrative 
dwelling on the distinction of clean and unclean beasts 
(vii, 2) ; afterwards on the covenant with Noah ; the 
promise of future enjoyment of the earth and its fruits ; 
the prohibition of eating blood ; the punishment of 
murder (ix, 4, etc.) ; all constituting, in fact, some of 
the rudiments out of which the Mosaic law was framed, 
and w hich were thus brought before the Israelites as 
forming an anticipatory sanction for it. Regarded in 
a Christian light, the narrative is important solely in 
respect to the applications made of it in the New Tes- 
tament, and these are only of the following kind : it 
is referred to as a w arning of Christ's coming (Matt, 
xxiv, 88 ; Luke xvii, 27) ; as an assurance of judgment 
on sin (2 Pet. ii, 5) ; and of God’s long-suffering ; while 
the ark is made a type of baptism and Christian salva- 
tion (1 Pet. iii, 20) ; and, lastly, Noah is set forth as an 
example of faith (Ileb. xi, 7). In these applications 
no reference is made to the physical nature of the 
event, nor even to its literal universality. They are 
all allusions, not to the event abstractedly, but only in 
the way of argument with the parties addressed in sup- 
port of other truths ; an appeal to the Old Testament 
addressed to those who already believed in it — in the 
first of the instances cited, to the Jews — in the others, 
to Jewish converts to Christianity (compare 1 Pet. i, 1, 
and 2 Pet. iii, 1). Indeed, if the terms “earth” (y^JK) 
and “heavens” (C?*2w) be referred in the Mosaic nar- 
rative itself to the visible extent of land and superin- 
cumbent arch of sky (as they often signify), all direct 
statement of the universality of the deluge over the 
surface of the globe will at once disappear. That it 
was coextensive w ith the spread of the human race at 
the time is indeed demanded by tbe conditions of the 
sacred history [see Antediluvians]; but there is no 
evidence that the population before the flood w’ns either 
so extensive or so widely disseminated as many have 
imagined, calculating upon the inapposite rate of mod- 
ern increase and later usages. On the contrary, it ap- 
pears that even after the deluge the inhabitants were 
still so greatly inclined to cluster around one native 
centre that tbe catastrophe of Label was requisite in 
order to induce a fulfilment of the divine behest that 
mankind should “fill the earth.” Undoubtedly, if 
read from the present advanced stage of the world's 
history, it would be impossible to understand tbe lan- 
guage otherwise than of an absolute universality; for, 
now that every region of the w’orld is known, and 
known to be more or less occupied by man and beast, 
it must have been in the strictest sense a world-em- 
bracing catastrophe which could be described as en- 
veloping in a w'atery shroud every hill under the 
whole heaven, and destroying every living thing that 
moved on the face of the eaith. But here it must be 
remembered, the sacred narrative dates from tbe com- 
parative infancy of the world, when but a limited por- 
tion of it was peopled or known ; and it is always one 
of the most natural, as well as most fertile sources of 
error, respecting the interpretation of such early rec- 
ords, that one is apt to overlook the change of circum- 
stances, and contemplate wliat is written from a mod- 
ern point of view. Hence the embarrassments so 
often felt, and the misjiulgmcnts sometimes actually 
pronounced, respecting those parts of Scripture w hich 
speak of the movements of the heavenly bodies in lan- 
guage suited to the apparent , but at variance, as has 
now' been ascertained, with the real phenomena. In 
such cases it is forgotten that the Bible was not in- 
tended to teach the truths of physical science, or point 
the w r ay to discoveries in the merely natural sphere. 
Of things in these departments of knowledge it uses 
the language of common life. So, whatever in the 
scriptural account of the deluge touches on geographi- 


FLOOR 


002 FLORENCE. COUNCIL OF 


cal limits or matters strictly physical, ought to be 
taken with the qualifications inseparable from the 
bounded horizon of men’s views and relations at the 
time. Accordingly, there were not wanting theologi- 
cal writers who, long before any geological fact, or 
well-ascertained fact of any sort in physical science, 
had appeared to shake men’s faith in a strictly univer- 
sal deluge, actually put the interpretation now sug- 
gested as competent upon the narrative of the deluge. 
Thus Poole, who nourished in the middle of the 17th 
century, says in his Synopsis on Gen. vii, 19: “It is 
not to be supposed that the entire globe of the earth 
was covered with water. Where was the need of 
overwhelming those regions in which there were no 
human beings? It would be highly unreasonable to 
suppose that mankind had so increased before the del- 
uge as to have penetrated to all the corners of the 
earth. It is, indeed, not probable that they had ex- 
tended beyond the limits of Syria and Mesopotamia. 
It would be absurd to affirm that the effects of the 
punishment inflicted upon men alone applied to places 
in which there were no men.” Hence he concludes 
that “if not so much as the hundredth part of the 
globe was overspread with water, still the deluge 
would be universal, because the extirpation took effect 
upon all the part of the world which was inhabited.” 
In like manner Stillingfleet, a writer of the same pe- 
riod, in his Origines Sacra? (bk. iii, ch. iv.), states that 
“he cannot see any urgent necessity from the Scrip- 
ture to assert that the flood did spread over all the 
surface of the earth. The flood was universal as to 
mankind ; but from thence follows no necessity at all 
of asserting the universality of it as to the globe of the 
earth, unless it be sufficiently proved that the whole 
eartli was peopled before the flood — which I despair of 
ever seeing proved.” Indeed, this view dates much 
farther back than the comparatively recent time when 
these authors lived ; for while bishop Patrick himself 
took the other and commoner view, we find him thus 
noting in his commentary on Gen. vii, 19 : “There 
were those anciently (i. e. in the earlier ages), and 
they have their successors now, who imagined the 
flood was not universal — dXV tv oJ oi tots dv9po)7roi 
ojkovv — but only there where men then dwelt ; as the 
author of the Questiones ad Orthodoxos tells us, Quest. 
34.” It is certain, therefore, that this is not a ques- 
tion between scientific naturalists on the one side, and 
men of simple faith in Scripture on the other. Apart 
from the cultivation or the discoveries of science, we 
have two classes of interpreters of Scripture, one of 
which find no reason to believe in more than a restrict- 
ed universality, while the other press the language to 
its farthest possible extent — take it, not as descriptive 
of God’s judgment upon the earth, in so far merely as 
it was occupied by men, but with reference to the globe 
at large, and to an event in its natural history. See 
Offerhaus, I)e dilnvio Noetico (Franeck. 1G94) ; Hardt, 
Jlistoria diluvii Xoachi (llehnst. 1728) ; Diecke, Ueber 
die Siindjluth (St. Gall, 1801); Rendell, History of the 
Flood (Loud. 1851, 1804). — Kitto, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. 
Compare Deluge. 

Floor go'ren; uXtov'), prop, a level or open 
area (as the “place” or square around the gates of 
Oriental cities, 1 Kings xxii,10; 2 Cliron. xviii, 9); 
hence usually the spot, well-beaten and smooth, on 
which grain is trodden out by cattle in the East, i. e. 
the “barn-floor” or “threshing-floor.” See Thresh- 
ing. For the floor of rooms, see House; for that of 
court-yards, sec Pavement. 

Flore, Order of ( Floriacences , Florenses , or Flori- 
enses), a monastic order of the Roman Catholic Church, 
was founded, in 1189, by Joachim do Celieo (generally 
called Joachim of Floris), who resigned his position of 
abbot of the Cistercian monaster}' of Corazzo in order 
to withdraw' with some companions into the desert of 
Flora. Soon a znonastery arose there, the statutes of 


which were sanctioned in 1190 by pope Celestine III. 
Gradually the statutes were adopted by several mon- 
asteries in Naples and the two Calabrias ; but, as the 
founder -was suspected of heresy, the order had repeat- 
edly to suffer persecution. In 1470 began the rule of 
commendatory abbots, which led to a rapid degenera- 
tion. In 1505 most of the monasteries connected with 
the order joined the Cistercians, while a few others w r ere 
incorporated with the Carthusians and Dominicans. 
At the close of the 10th century no more monasteries 
of the order seem to have been in existence. There 
were also a few convents of nuns following the rule 
of Flore. The order differed but little from the Cis- 
tercians. — Wetzer u.Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , iv, 102. 
(A. J. S.) 

Florence, Council of (transferred from Ferrara 
in 1439). The circumstances under which the Council 
of Ferrara -was called by Eugenius IV are stated under 
Basle, Council of; Ferrara, Council of. The 
plea for the transfer of the council from Ferrara to Flor- 
ence was the prevalence of the plague in Ferrara ; but 
this must be pronounced a blind, as the plague had pre- 
vailed for months, and v r as nearly over when the trans- 
fer took place. “Are w F e, then, free to surmise that the 
true reason was kept a profound secret after all, and 
■was, really, that the Latins were getting thoroughly 
the worst of it on the point of adding to the creed, and 
that attention was to be diverted from the subject by a 
change of scene and improved fare?” (Ffoulkes, Chris- 
tendom's Divisions , ii, 340). “ It is clear that the Greek 
bishops were only led to consent to obey the pope and 
go from Ferrara to Florence by the promise that their 
allowance for expenses, which had been withheld for 
several months, should be promptly paid” (Popoff, His- 
tory of the Council of Florence , edited by Neale, Lond. 
1861, eh. vi). 

The bull transferring the council to Florence was 
read in the cathedral of Ferrara, Jan. 10, 1439; on 
Feb. 9 the pope and bishops entered Florence ; the 
emperor, John Palieologus, arrived on the 15th. The 
aim of the council was (in continuation of that at Fer- 
rara) to restore union between the churches of the 
East and the West. Eugenius IV desired this great- 
ly, in order to confound liis enemies at the Council of 
Basle, who were still in session, and who soon after- 
wards deposed him (June 25, 1439 : see Basle); while 
the emperor John Pakeologus sought to gain the aid 
of the West in his wars with the Turks. The chief 
topic of discussion was the addition of the flioque to 
the creed [see Filioque] ; but the Latins succeeded 
in taking up the doctrinal question of the procession 
of the Holy Ghost instead of the historical one of the 
additions to the creed. The cardinal Julian chiefly 
represented the Latin side, and Mark of Ephesus was 
the strongest disputant on the side of the Greeks. 
Bessarion, of the Greek side, was won over to the Lat- 
in by promises of rewards from the pope. See Bessa- 
rion. 

At the first session, Feb. 20, 1439, Joseph, patriarch 
of Constantinople, was absent on account of illness. 
He died before the close of this council. Cardinal 
Julian proposed a discussion of the means of union ; 
the emperor reminded him that the dispute on the fli- 
oque was not ended. At the end of the sitting, he held 
a private meeting of the Greeks to consider terms of 
union, but nothing came of it. In the second session 
(March 2) a beginning was made in discussing the 
doctrine of the procession, the Latin side being ably 
represented by Johannes de Monte Nigro, provincial 
of the Dominicans in Lombardy. The discussion was 
continued in several sessions up to the ninth (March 
25). The Greeks succeeded best in the scriptural ar- 
gument, and also showed that many of the passages 
from Epiphanius, Basil, and Augustine, cited by the 
Latins, had been corrupted. After the session of Mar. 
17, the emperor prohibited Mark of Ephesus and An- 
thony of Heraclea, the two strongest advocates on the 


FLORIAN 


FLORENCE, COUNCIL OF 603 


Greek side, from taking farther part in the discussions. 
The emperor was bent on union at any price. At the 
end of the session of March 24, the pope sent word to 
the patriarch that the Greeks must either express their 
assent to the Roman view, or return home by Easter, 
April 5. From this time the emperor vacillated : on 
the one side was his conscience, and also the fear that 
the whole East would brand him as a traitor to ortho- 
doxy ; on the other hand was his desire for the aid of 
the West in maintaining his falling empire. Policy 
triumphed. Moreover, the Greeks were far from home, 
and without money, and they received nothing on ac- 
count of the allowance promised them by the pope 
from the time of their arrival in Florence until May 
22. The emperor summoned a meeting of the Greek 
bishops, March 30, in the apartment of the invalid pa- 
triarch Joseph, and other such meetings followed. The 
discussions were stormy. Dositheus of Jerusalem de- 
clared that he would rather die than be false to the 
creed and “ Latinize.” Mark declared that the Latins 
were not only schismatics, but heretics. It was final- 
ly agreed that a committee of twenty should be ap- 
pointed, ten from each side, to lay down the doctrine 
of the procession in a form that might be accepted by 
both sides. “After many unsuccessful endeavors, 
the}' drew up a profession of faith upon the subject of 
the procession of the Holy Spirit, in which they de- 
clared as follows : ‘ That the Holy Spiiit is from all 
eternity from the Father and of the Son ; that he from 
all eternity proceedeth from both, as from one only 
principle, and by one only spiraiion ; that by this way 
of speaking it is signified that the Son also is, as the 
Greeks express it, the cause , or, as the Latins, th e prin- 
ciple of the subsistence of the Holy Spirit equally with 
the Father. Also we declare that what some of the 
holy fathers have said of the procession of the Holy 
Spirit from (ex) the Father by (per) the Son is to be 
taken in such a sense as that the Son is, as well as the 
Father, and conjointly with him, the cause or principle 
of the Iloly Spirit; and since all that the Father hath 
he hath, in begetting him, communicated to his only 
begotten Son, the paternity alone excepted ; so it is 
from the Father from all eternity that the Son bath 
received this also, that the Holy Spirit proceedeth from 
the Son as well as from the Father.’ In the same de- 
cree the council declared that it was lawful to conse- 
crate unleavened bread as well as that which had been 
leavened; and upon the subject of purgatory, that the 
souls of those who die truly penitent in the love of 
God, before bringing forth fruit meet for repentance, 
are purified after death by the pains of purgatory, and 
that they derive comfort in those pains from the pray- 
ers of the faithful on earth, as also by the sacrifice of 
the mass, alms, and other works of piety. Concerning 
the primacy of the pope, they confessed the pope to be 
the sovereign pontiff and vicar of Jesus Christ, the 
head of the whole Church, and the father and teacher 
of all Christians, and the governor of the Church of 
God, according to the sacred canons and acts of the 
oecumenical councils, saving the privileges and rights of 
the Eastern patriarchs. 

After various conferences, the decree of union was 
drawn up in due order, in Greek and in Latin ; it was 
then read and signed by the pope, and by eighteen car- 
dinals, by the Latin patriarchs of Jerusalem and Gre- 
nada, and the two episcopal ambassadors of the duke 
of Burgundy, eight archbishops, forty-seven bishops 
(who were almost all Italians), four generals of monas- 
tic orders, and forty-one abbots. On the Greek side, 
it was signed by the emperor John ralseologus, by the 
vicars of the patriarchs of Alexandria, Antioch, and 
Jerusalem (the patriarch of Constantinople had lately 
died), and by several metropolitans. This decree w r as 
published on the Gth of July, 1439, after which the 
Greeks, to the number of thirty, left Florence, and ar- 
rived at Constantinople, February 1, 1440. The union 
thus formed was of very short duration. See Greek 


Church. After their departure, the council continued 
its sittings; and in the next session, held September 
4th, the fathers at Basle were declared to be heretics 
and schismatics. In the second, November 22d. a very 
long decree was made upon the subject of the union oV 
the Armenians with the Roman Church. This decree 
runs in the name of the pope only. In the third, Mar. 
23, 1440, the anti-pope Amadeus, whom the council at 
Basle had elected pope (Felix V), was declared to be a 
heretic and schismatic, and all his follow ers guilty of 
high treason ; a promise of pardon being held out to 
those who should submit within fifty days. In the 
fourth session, 4th of February, 1441, a decree for the 
reunion of the Jacobites of Ethiopia with the Roman 
Church w'as published, signed by the pope and eight 
cardinals. Andrew, the deputy of John XI, the patri- 
arch of Alexandria, received it in the name of the Ethi- 
opian Jacobites. In the fifth session, 2Gth of April, 
1442, the pope’s proposal to transfer the council to 
Rome was agreed to, but only two sessions w ere held 
there, in which decrees for the union of the Syrians, 
Chaldaeans, and Maronites w ith the see of Rome wero 
drawn up” (Landon, Manual of Councils , s. v). On the 
return home of the Greeks, they found no welcome : 
Mark of Ephesus w as held up as the true representa- 
tive of orthodoxy, and the signers to the union were 
denounced as recreants. Most of those who had sign- 
ed their names recanted, saying, “Alas ! we have been 
seduced by distress, by fraud, and by the hopes and 
fears of a transitory life. The hand that has signed 
the union should be cut off, and the tongue that has 
pronounced the Latin creed deserves to be torn from 
the root.” 

Literature. — For the acts of the council (on the Latin 
side), see Hor. Justinianus, Acta Condi. Florentini 
(Rom. 1G38, 3 parts fol.) ; Mansi, ConcVia, v, ix ; Labbe 
et Cossart, Concil. xiii, 223, 510, 1034 ; Harduin, Con- 
dl. ix. The acts are summed up in Sender, Selecta 
Histories Eccles. capit. iii, 140 sq. On the Greek side 
we have Sylvester Sgnropulos (often written Syropu- 
\us),’A7ropvi]povtvpaTa,Vera Hist, nnionis non veraz in- 
ter Gracos et Latinos , s. Condi. Florent. narratio ; Gr. 
et Lat., ed. Rob. Crevghton (^Hague, 1GG0, fol.) ; in re- 
ply to which, Leo Allatius wrote Exercit. in It. Creygh- 
toni apparat ., etc. (Roma?, 1G74, 1GG5, 4to). See also 
Schrockh, Kirchengeschichte , xxxiv, 388 sq. ; Ffoulkes, 
Christendom's Divisions (Lond. 18G7), ii, 332 sq. ; Mil- 
man, Latin Christianity, bk. xiii, ch. xiv; Hefele, in 
Tubing. Quartal-Schrift , 1847, 183 sq. ; Grier, Epitome 
of Councils (Dublin, 1827, 8vo), ch. xxvi ; The History 
of the Council of Florence translated ly Basil Popojf 
ed. by J. M. Neale (Lond. 18G1, 12mo) ; Cunningham, 
Historical Theology , i, 4G8 sq. ; Elliott, Delineation of 
Romanism , bk. iii, ch. iii. 

Florentius Radewins, successor of Gerhard 
Groot as director of the Brethren of the Common Life 
(q. v.), was born at Leerdam in 1350. He became 
M.A. at the University of Prague, and on his return 
to Holland came under the influence of Gerhard, and 
became his close friend, and a leader among the Breth* 
ren. He died A.D. 1400. His life was written by 
Thomas h Kempis ( Vita Florentii , in Opera Omnia , ed. 
1G35, vol. iii). See Ullmann, Reformers before the Ref- 
ormation , ii, 82 sq. See Brethren. 

Florian. 1. A martyr (saint in the Roman Catho- 
lic Church), w’as the son of Christian parents of Celia, 
and served in the Roman army at the time of the em- 
peror Dioclesian. When the prefect Aquilinus went 
to Lorch to search for Christians, Florian voluntarily 
confessed his faith and was drowmed in the Enns. A 
pious matron, Valeria, in pursuance of a vision, had 
his corpse buried at the place where subsequently the 
monastery of St. Florian was erected. Later, his rel- 
ics were taken to Rome, and in 1183 pope Lucius III 
sent them to king Casimir, of Poland, and bishop Ge- 
deon, of Cracow. Thus he became the natron saint 


FLORIDA 


004 


FLOUR 


of Poland. lie is commemorated on the 4th of March. 
As he is particularly invoked by those in danger of 
tire, he is represented in Christian art with a vessel 
extinguishing flames. 

2. One of the most celebrated Augustin ian monas- 
teries of Austria. It was erected over the grave of 
St. Florian (see Florian, 1) in the (5th century, and 
built anew in 1713. — Stiilz, Gesch. des regulirten Chor- 
hernn-Stiftes St. Florian (Linz, 1835). (A. J. S.) 

Florida, a diocese of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church of the United States coextensive with the 
state of the same name. It w r as organized in 1838. 
The first bishop was Francis Huger Rutledge, D.D., 
a native of South Carolina, consecrated in 1851; died 
at Tallahassee Nov. 4, 18G6. lie was succeeded by 
John Freeman Young, consecrated July 25, 18G7. 
From 1862 to 1865 Florida belonged to the “ General 
Council of the Confederate States of America.” In 
1868 the diocese counted 16 clergymen, 14 parishes, 
and 738 communicants. (A. J. S.) 

Florinians, a sect in the 2d century who inclined 
to the views of the Valentinians. They were so named 
from Florinus, a Roman presbyter who was deposed 
by Eleutherius. Ilis views are only to be gathered 
from a letter of Irenams and from a passage in Euse- 
bius (v, 20). It appears that Florinus at first pushed 
monarchianism so far as to make God the author of 
evil ; and afterwards, on the other extreme, in con- 
nection with the peculiar dogmas of Valentinus, Flori- 
nns maintained that light and darkness were two eter- 
nal principles from which all the good and evil re- 
spectively in the universe had proceeded. — Neander, 
Ch. Hist, i, 680 ; Mosheim, Ch. Ilist. i, 408. See Val- 
entinians. 

Floris, Joachim of. See Joachim. 

Floras, Drepanius (commonly called Florus 
Diaconus or Magister), a deacon of the Church of 
Lyons in the 0th century, noted especially for the 
share he took in the disputes with Gottschalc and Jo- 
hanims Scotus, and also between Agobard and Ama- 
larius. Against the former he wrote (A. I). 852) Liber 
de Predestinatione contra Joh. Scott erron. definitiones. 
He asserts a twofold predestination, or, rather, predes- 
tination under a twofold aspect: a gratuitous predes- 
tination of the eleet to grace and glory, and a predes- 
tination of the reprobate to damnation for their sins, 
which they commit by their own free will ; and main- 
tains that, though our free will can choose that which 
is good, yet it never would choose, or do it, if it were 
not assisted by the grace of Jesus Christ. And to ex- 
plain this, he makes use of the comparison of a sick 
man, of whom we may say that lie may recover his 
health, although he hath need of physic to restore it; 
or of a dead man, that he may he raised, but by the di- 
vine power. In like manner, saith he, the free will 
being distempered, and dead, by the sin of the first 
man, may be revived, but not by its own virtue, but 
bv the grace and power of God, who hath pity on it, 
which Florus understands not only of that grace which 
is necessary for actions, but of that also which is neces- 
sary to seek conversion by prayer, and begin to do 
well. “ While he censured Scotus on account of his 
abuse of the worldly sciences, lie did not suffer him- 
self to be so far misled by the zeal of the polemic as to 
discard them as useless in themselves to theology; 
hut he had the discretion to distinguish the right use 
of them, in investigating truth, from that abuse. He 
only demanded that everything should be tried hv the 
test of the sacred Scriptures. Rut, at the same time, 
he declared that, in order rightly to understand and 
apply Scripture truth, it was not enough to study the 
letter alone, but that the inward illumination of a 
Christian temper was also required. The holy Scrip- 
tures themselves could not be rightly understood and 
profitably read unless faith in Christ first existed in 
the heart of the reader, so that the truth might be 


rightly apprehended by means of that, or unless faith 
in Christ Avas truly sought, and found in them by the 
light which cometh from above.” This, and his tract 
De Actione Mtssarmn, and De electionibus Episcoporum , 
may he found in Bib. Max. Pair. tom. xv; the Opusc. 
adc. Amalarium in Martcne et Durand , collect, ix, p. 
577. He compiled, chiefly from Augustine, a Comm. 
in Omnes Paidi Epistolas , which was published as 
Rcda’s until Mabillon showed it to be Florus’s. All 
his extant writings are given in Migne, Patrol. Lat. 
cxix, 1-423. — Mosheim, Ch. Hist. cent, ix, pt. ii, ch. ii, 
n. 45 ; Hook, Eccl. Biog. v, 153 ; Hist. Lift, de la France , 
tom. v; Neander, Ch. Hist. (Torrey), iii, 489; Ceillier, 
Auteurs Sacres (Paris, 1862), xii, 478 sq. 

Floras, Gessius (Grnecized rlrrmoc d'Xwpoc by 
Josephus), sometimes with the pramomen Festus or Ces- 
tius , a native of Clazomenie, appointed procurator of 
Judoea, A.D. 64, in place of Albinus, by Nero, through 
the influence of his wife Cleopatra with Poppcea, the 
empress. His rule was marked with such unprece- 
dented rapine and violence as to drive the Jews into 
their final rebellion (Taeit. Hist, v, 10), a result appar- 
ently intended by him in order to cover his own enor- 
mities (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 1, 6; xx, 11, 1; I Far, ii, 
14). He took a bribe at Cresarea fiom the Jews for 
protecting them in their synagogue worship, and then 
abandoned them to the fury of the Greeks, imprisoning 
those who came to supplicate his promised protection. 
He massaered and impaled Jewish citizens of rank at 
pleasure, and publicly derided their efforts to secure 
the intervention of Cestius Gallus, proconsul of Syria, 
in their favor. Ilis term ended with the Jewish in- 
surrection, A.D. 65, in which he w T as superseded by 
Vespasian, or perhaps perished (Josephus, Life, 6; 
Ant. xiv, 9, 2; xx, 9, 5; War, ii, 15; Suetonius, Vesp. 
iv ; Orosius, vii, 9 ; Sulpic. Sev. Sacr. Hist, ii, 42 ; Eu- 
sebius, Ckron. lxvi). — Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v. 
See Governor. 

Flote. See Float. 

Flour stands in the Auth.Vers. as the representa- 
tive of the following Heb. words: (he' mack, lit- 

erally marroiu [see Fat], Jndg. vi, 19; 1 Sam. i, 24; 
xxviii, 24; 2 Sam. xvii, 28, meal , as it is elsewhere 
rendered), r Vo ( so'leth , from stripping off the hull, the 
finest and purest part of the meal, usually rendered 
“fine flour,” Sept, and N. Test. tngieaXiQ, Rev. xviii, 
13), and p!S2 ( batsek ' , from its swelling in rising, 2 
Sam. xiii, 18, dough as it is elsewhere rendered). See 
Meal. 

In early times corn was often eaten whole without 
any preparation at all (Deut. xxiii, 25), and the cus- 
tom was not entirely disused in the time of our Sav- 
iour (Matt, xii, 1). Parching it afterwards became so 
general that the words which properly mean parched 
were also used for corn or meal (Ruth ii, 14; 2 Sam. 
xvii, 28). See Parched Corn. Mortars were used 
in the time of Moses for bruising corn, as was also the 
mill (Numb, xi, 8). See Mortar. Fine meal, that 
is, corn or grain ground or beaten fine, is spoken of as 
far back as the time of Abraham (Gen. xviii, G). At 
first, barley alone was ground, but afterwards wheat, 
as only the poor used barley. Barley-bread appears 
to have been more suitable in the warm climate of the 
East than in a colder elimate. See Bread. On the 
second day, however, it becomes insipid and rough to 
the palate, as is likewise the case with wheaten bread ; 
hence the necessity of baking every day, and hence 
also the daily grinding at the mills about evening al- 
luded to bv the prophet Jeremiah (xxv, 10). See 
Mill. The flour, being mingled with water, was re- 
duced to a solid mass in a sort of wooden tray or 
kneading-trough (q. v.) ; this, after remaining a little 
time, was kneaded, some leaven being also added to 
it (Fxod. xii, 34). See Leaven. In ease it was nec- 
essary to prepare the bread very hastily, the leaven 


FLO WEI 


605 


FLOY 


was left out (Gen. xviii, 6 ; xix, 3). The cakes, when 
made, were round, and nine or ten inches in diameter, 
and often not thicker than a knife. — Jalin, A rchceol. § 
137-140. See Cake. Fine flour was especially offer- 
ed hy the poor as a sin-offering (Lev. v, 11-13), and in 
connection with other sacrifices in general (Numb, xv, 
3*12; rrxviii, 7-29). See Offering. 

Flower (usually some form of the kindred roots 
•pli and j f 2Z3, to glitter , and lienee to blossom; Sept, 
and N. T. w^ot,)? a generic term, not designating any 
particular species. Flowers grow in great variety 
and abundance in Palestine, and from the month of 
January to May the groves and meadows are adorned 
with the blossoms of different species of wild plants. 
Travellers have noticed different species of anemone, 
ranunculus, crocus, tulip, narcissus, hyacinth, lily, vi- 
olet, aster, pink, iris, asphodel, daffodil, crowfoot, 
wind-flower, willow-herb, hyssop, dragon-wort, peri- 
winkle, squill, the spiked veronica, white clover, and 
a flower resembling the hollyhock, and several others, 
which, by their variety and multitude, perfume the 
air, and yield a very lovely prospect. The rose of 
Sharon, which is not properly a rose, but a cistus, 
white or red, grows abundant!}'; also the rose of Jeri- 
cho, though not properly so, grows spontaneously, par- 
ticularly near the Dead Sea and the Jordan. The cel- 
ebrated henna plant abounds in several places. With 
the jasmine, as well as with the vine, the people orna- 
ment the alleys and the arbors of their gardens. 
Burckhardt noticed the pretty red flower of the nomen 
plant, which abounds in all the valleys of Sinai, and 
is also seen among the most barren granitic rocks of 
the mountains (see Tyas, Flowers of Holy Land , Lond. 
n. <!.). See Palestine, 

Flowers in the Bible are not treated from a seiem 
tific point of view. Very few species are mentioned ; 
and, although their beauty is once or taviee alluded to 
in descriptive passages (sometimes under the general 
term “grass,” Matt, vi, 38; Cant, ii, 12; v, 13), they 
are seldom introduced, except in the single pathetic 
analogy which they afford to the transitory life and 
glory of mankind (Job xiv, 2 ; Psa. ciii, 15 ; Isa. xxviii, 
1 ; xl, G ; Jas. i, 10 ; 1 Pet. i, 24). See Botany. The 
ancient Egyptians -were exceedingly fond of flowers, 
and they are often represented on the monuments (see 
Wilkinson, i, 19, 37, 57, 78, 141, 257, etc.). Gardens 
(r',i:., OTIS, TrapadeifToi) were in use among 

Orientals from the earliest times (Gen. xiii, 10) ; Dent, 
xi, 12, etc.); but, although they were planted with 
flowers and fragrant herbs (Cant, vi, 2 ; iv, 1G), often 
chosen for their beauty and rarity (Isa. xvii, 10), yet 
they appear to have been chiefly cultivated for useful 
and culinary purposes (Jer. xxix, 5; Cant, vi, 11 ; iv, 
13; Deut. viii, 8, etc.). See Garden. 

Flower (»"H2, pe'rach , a bud , Isa. xviii, 5 ; Numb, 
xvii, 8, as just bursting open into a blossom , Isa. v, 24; 
Nah. i, 4) is used to describe the floral ornaments of 
the golden candelabrum (Exod. xxv, 31 sq. ; xxxvii, 
17 ; 1 Kings vii, 2G), and also the artificial lily-orna- 
ments around the edge of the great Inver (1 Kings vii, 
20; 2 Chron. iv, 5) in the tabernacle and Temple. See 
Candlestick, Golden; Brazen Sea. 

Flowers (S"n3, nuhlah uncleanness , as often else- 
where rendered) stands in Lev. xv, 21, 33, for the 
menstrual discharge of females. 

Flowers. (1.) It was an ancient practice to strew 
flowers on graves. Jerome bestows the following 
commendation on Pammachius : “ While other hus- 
bands throw thorns, lilies, violets, roses, and purple 
flowers upon the graves of their wives, our Pammaehi- 
us voters the hones and holy ashes of his wife with 
the balsam of alms. With these perfumes and odors 
he solaces the ashes of the dead that lie at rest” ( Epist . 
20). (2.) The practice of decorating churches with 

flowers is very common in the Roman, and some of 


the Protestant churches of the Continent, and exists 
in various parts of England. It probably arose out 
of a desire to “honor the first-fruits” of nature’s most 
beautiful productions, and may therefore be retained 
among things in themselves indifferent. The modern 
Ritualists, however, carry this, as other things, to ex- 
cess. — Bingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. xxiii, chap. >>',§20: 
Walcot, Sacred Archeology , p. 280; Barrett, Flowers 
and Festivals , or Directions for the Floral Decoration 
of Churches (London, 1SG8). 

Floy, James, D.D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in the city of New York 
Aug. 20, 180G. lie received his academical education 
at Columbia College, New York, but left college before 
graduating, and went to London, where he was for 
some time a student of botany and horticulture at the 
Royal Botanical Gardens. Returning to New Y r ork, 
he became a clerk in the Methodist Publishing House. 
In 1831 he joined the Bowery YYllage (now Seventh 
Street) Methodist Episcopal Church, and for some time 
acted as teacher and superintendent of a Sunday-school 
for colored persons under the care of that church. He 
was also appointed a class-leader; was licensed to 
preach in February, 1833; was received into the trav- 
elling ministry as a probationer at the New Y r ork Con- 
ference of 1835, and appointed to Riverhead, Long Isl- 
and, N. Y r . llis subsequent appointments were : 183G- 
37, Hempstead Circuit ; 1837-39, Harlem Mission. He 
was an earnest abolitionist at a time when abolition- 
ism cost a man something ; and in 1838 he -was cen- 
sured by his Conference for attending an abolition Con- 
vention. He lived to see his principles triumph both 
in Church and State. At the Conference for 1839 he 
was ordained elder, and appointed to Kortright Cir- 
cuit, Delaware County, N. \ r ., but, en account of the 
illness of his wife, he v r as released from the appoint- 
ment. From 1840 to 1842 he was at Washington-street 
Church, Brooklyn ; 1842-44, Danbury, Conn. ; 1844- 
4G, Madison Street, New Y’ork ; 1847-48, Middletown, 
Conn. ; 1848-50, New Haven, Conn. ; 1850-52, Madi- 
son Street, New Y T oik, second time ; 1852-54, Twenty- 
seventh Street, New Y T otk ; 1854-5G, presiding elder of 
New Y'ork District ; 185G-G0, editor of National Maga- 
zine and Secretary of the Tract Society of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church ; 18G1-G3, Seventh Street, New 
York ; 18G3, Beekman Hill, New Y'ork. Three times 
his Conference elected him a delegate to the Generd 
Conference. His appointments during the twenty- 
four years of his pastoral life strongly indicate the 
high appreciation that was held of his merits ; and it 
is believed that he never failed to leave any charge 
better than when he came to it. He also took a lively 
interest in the general affairs of the Church ; was dili- 
gent in his attendance on the sessions of his Confer- 
ence, where his influence was always potent. As as- 
sistant secretary and secretary, he kept the Conference 
journals fourteen years. In 1848 he received the de- 
gree of D.D. from the Wesleyan University. As a 
preacher, he was clear, direct, and earnest ; eminently 
evangelical in doctrine; in exhortation, pungent and 
effective; elevated in matter, and rigidly correct in 
style and manner. His death was sudden. On the 
evening of Oct. 14, 18G3, in his study, with only a son 
with him, he was seized with apoplexy, and expired 
almost instantly. Dr. Floy was a man of powerful 
personal character, and of vigorous as well as acute in- 
tellect. His critical faculty v r as largely developed; 
his personal culture was careful and thorough ; his 
English style w T as pure and clear to a rare degree. 
For tv r enty years he was a contributor to the Metho- 
dist Quarterly Review, and some of the best ai tides in 
that journal are from his pen. He was devoted to 
Sunday-schools, and n T rote several books for the use 
of the schools, among them Harry Bndd, a very suc- 
cessful juvenile tale. One of his most important la- 
bors was the editing of the J fethodist Hymn-book , a task 
assigned to a committee, of which Dr. Floy w'as the 


FLOYD 


606 FLUTES 


most active member, by the General Conference of 
1841b The Ilymn-book now in use owes its compre- 
hensiveness anti general excellence largely to Dr. Floy. 
He edited the posthumous works of Dr. Olin (q. v.). 
After his death apjMjared his Old Testament Characters 
delineated and illustrated (N. York, 12mo) : — Occasional 
Sermons , Reviews, and Essays (N. Y. 12 mo). — Curry, in 
Methodist Quarterly Review , January, 18G4, article vi; 
Woodruff, in The Ladies Repository , July, 18G5, art. i ; 
Minutes of the Annual Conferences , 1864, p. 88. 

Floyd, John, an English Jesuit, was born in Cam- 
bridgeshire. He became a Jesuit on the Continent 
in 1593, and returned to England as a missionary. 
He was afterwards banished, and was employed by 
his superiors to teach polite literature and divinity at 
St. Omer and Louvain. The time of his death is not 
known. He was involved in controversies with Cliil- 
lingworth, Antonins de Dominis, Crashaw, Sir Edward 
Hobby, and other Protestants, in which he assumed 
the names of Daniel d Jcsu , JJermannus Lcemelius , and 
Annosus Fidelis Verimontanus. Under these names he 
wrote Synopsis Apostasies M. A. de Dominis (Antwerp, 
1617, 8vo): — Detectio Ilypocrisis M. A. de Dominis 
(1619, 8vo) : — The Church Conquerant over human Wit , 
against Chillingw'orth (St. Omer, 1631, 4to): — The To- 
tal Sum, against the same (1639, 4to): — Answer to 
William Crashaw (1612, 4to) : — A Treatise of Purga- 
tory , in answer to Sir Edward Hobby (1613). — Ale- 
gambe, De Script. Frat. Jesu ; Ilook, Eccl. Biog. v, 154. 

Fludd, Robert (Latin, De Fluctibus), an Eng- 
lish physician and theosopliist, was horn at Millgate, 
in Kent, in 1574. lie was educated at Oxford, and 
afterwards travelled on the Continent, where he be- 
came a Rosicrucian (q. v.). Returning to England, 
he became M.D., and practised in London, devoting 
himself also to the study of the natural sciences, in 
which he showed rare aptitudes. He was also a zeal- 
ous student of the occult sciences. He died at Lon- 
don Sept. 8, 1637. lie was a man of real genius. Kep- 
ler and Gassendi thought it worth while to write 
aghinst him. Fludd’s works were published in Latin 
at Oppenheim, 1617-38, 6 vols. folio. His Mosaical 
Philosophy , grounded upon the essential Truth or eternal 
Sapience (Loud. 1659, fol.), is translated from the Latin 
text. See Rich, Biog. Dictionary ; Erucker, Hist. Crit. 
Philosophies; Wood, A thence Oxonienses. See Theos- 
ophy. 

Flue, Nikolaus von der, also knowm under the 
name of Brother Klaus , was born at Fliieli, in the 
canton of Unterwalden, Switzerland, March 21, 1417. 
lie was religiously educated, and -was early distin- 
guished for his asceticism, while, at the same time, 
he neglected none of his social duties. He served 
in the army with distinction, and afterwards was 
nineteen years councillor of state and judge. His 
countrymen would have appointed him to the highest 
offices, but he declined, and, resigning even his func- 
tion of judge, he left his family Oct. 16, 1467, barefoot- 
ed, bareheaded, and coarsely clad, to withdraw from 
the w-orld entirely, and live in the -wilderness. He 
settled among the Alps, where he is said to have lived 
for twenty years without touching an}' food except the 
consecrated w’afer brought to him by the priest. The 
people erected a chapel for him, and he gained great 
renown. After 1477 he began preaching in the chap- 
el. In 1481 he suddenly appeared at a diet of the 
eight cantons, W’hich at that time composed the Swiss 
Confederation, held at Slanz, and by an effective ad- 
dress averted the threatening disruption of the Confed- 
eration. He died March 21, 1487. He was canonized 
in 1669 by Clement IX. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 
431 ; Piper, Erang. Kalender , 1851; Goldlin von Tiefte- 
nau, Geist und Leben des he'd. Bniders Klaus (2d edit. 
Lucerne, 1808) ; Ihisinger, BrXider Klaus m seinZeital- 
ter (Lucerne, 1827); Schneller, Ueber Nicolaus von clcr 
Flue (Einsied. 1852). There are also biographies by 


Wysing, Weissenbach, Herzog, Widmer, Geiger, and 
G. Gorres. 

Flute mashrolitha' , from its hissing 

or whistling sound ; Theodot. a vpi£, a pipe), a musical 
instrument, mentioned among others (Dan. iii, 5, 7, 10, 
15) as used at the worship of the golden image which 
Nebuchadnezzar had set up. (Comp, the uvXvq of 1 
Esdr. v, 2, as a Persian instrument.) According to the 
author of Shiite- Haggiborim, this instrument w'as some- 
times made of a great number of pipes — a statement 
which, if correct, would make its name the Chaldee for 
the musical instrument called in Hebrew ZWV,ugab', 
and erroneously rendered in the A. V. “organ.” — 
Smith, s. v. See Pipe. 

There is notice taken in the Gospels of players on 
the flute ( avXrjn'ic , “minstrel”), w r ho were collected at 
funerals (Matt, ix, 23, 24). The Rabbins say that it 
w r as not allowable to have less than two players on the 
flute at the funeral of persons of the meanest condi- 
tion, besides a professional woman hired to lament; 
and Josephus relates that, a false report of his death 
being spread at Jerusalem, several persons hired play- 
ers on the flute by way of preparation for his funeral. 
In the Old Testament, however, we see nothing like 
it. The Jew's probably borrowed the custom from the 
Romans. When it was an old w r oman w r ho died they 
used trumpets, but flutes when a young woman w r as to 
be buried. — Calmet, s. v. See Funeral. 

Flutes, or rather flageolets, were very early in use 
in ancient Egypt, where they were of various forms 
and lengths, both single and double, with different 
numbers of holes, and used by players of both sexes. 



So also among the Greeks and Romans these instru- 
ments were common (Wilkinson, .Inc. Eg. i, 126 sq., 
abridgm. ; Kitto, Pictorial Bible, note on Dan. iii, 10). 


Ancient Roman Double Flutes. 

They arc likewise frequent in the modern East (Lane’s 
Egyptians , ii, 82). See Musical Instruments. 

"Hj ~ 8| o e 

Modern Egyptian Xay or Flute. 

Flutes or Flutings, curved channels cut perpen- 
dicularly in the shafts of columns of classical archi- 
tecture. In the Doric order the column has tw-enty 
flutes, separated by a sharp edge. In the Iouic, Co- 
rinthian, and Composite there are twenty-four, sepa- 




FLUX 


607 


FLY 


rated by a small fillet. Spiral flutes occur in some 
classical, and in early Romanesque architecture. Flutes \ 
also occur, but rarely, in pillars and pilasters of Goth- 
ic buildings. (G. F. C.) 


Fflffl 

1 

| 

S 


pl 

r 1 

I 

1. 

I ! : 

if! 

Doric. 

Ionic. 


Flux, Bloody (cvaevrepia, Acts xxviii, 8), the 
same as our dysentemy , which in the East is, though 
sometimes sporadic, generally epidemic (as in the case 
of the Asiatic cholera), and then assumes its worst 
form. It is always attended with fever (q. v.), fre- 
quently in an intermittent form, the presence of which 
Luke, with professional accuracy, intimates by the plu- 
ral (Tri'pfroi) in the above case of Publius. A sharp 
gnawing and burning sensation seizes the bowels, 
which give off in purging much slimy matter and pu- 
rulent discharge. When blood flows it is said to be 
less dangerous than without it (Schmidt, Bill. Medic. 
c. xiv, p.503-507). King Jehoram’s disease is thought 
by Dr. Mead to have been a chronic dysentery, and 
the “bowels falling out” the prolapsus ani , known 
sometimes to ensue (2 Chron. xxi, 15, 19). — Smith, s. 
v. See Disease. 

Fly is the rendering in the Autli. Vers, of two Heb. 
words. (Egli has a curious article on the name of the 
butterfly among the Hebrews, in the Zeitschr. fur uis- 
senschaftl. Theologie, Jena, 1864, i.) See Ant; Bee; 
Flea; Gnat; Hornet; Lice; Locust; Scorpion, 
etc. 

1. Zebub' (ZAZ.) ; Sept, pvia, Vulg. musca') occurs 
only in two passages (comp. Wisd. xvi, 9 ; xix, 10), 
namely, Eccles. x, 1, 41 Dead zebubim cause the oint- 
ment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savor,” 
and in Isa. vii, 18, where it is said, “ The Lord shall hiss 
for the zebub that is in the uttermost part of the rivers 
of Egypt.” The Heb. name, it is probable, is a ge- 
neric one for any insect, but the etymolog}' is a matter 
of doubt (see Gesenius, Thcs. p. 401 ; Ileb. and Chald. 
Lex. s. v. ; and Fiirst, Ileb. Concord, s. v.). The word 
zebub, fly, enters as an element into the name origin- 
ally appropriated to an idol worshipped at Ekron, Ba- 
alzebub (2 Kings i, 2); blit, according to the English 
version and the Vulgate, in the time of our Lord ap- 
plied to the prince of daemons, interchangeable with 
“Satan” (Matt, xii, 24, 26, 27). This “lord of flies” 
corresponds to the Ztut; c'uropvioc 
and the Hpa/cXt/g pvtaypog of the 
Greeks and Romans, as if a defend- 
er from flies (see Kitto, Piet. Bible , 
note on 2 Kings i, 2). The Greek 
in the New Testament reads Beel- 
zebul (B« \-%((3ov\, which is said to 
mean “lord of dung” instead of 
“lord of flies,” and has been con- 
sidered as one of those contemptu- Silver Coin of Ara- 
ous puns which the Jews were in dus, with a figure 
the habit of making by slight chan- of a 
ges of letters. There might be a peculiar sting in this 
particular case, from the circumstance that flies are 
chiefly bred in dunghills, and many species do greatly 
congregate thither ; hence the deity in question, being 
confessedly a “lord of flics,” must ipso facto be a 
“dungy lord.” One of the names by which “idols” 
are expressed in the Old Testament is tS^sfea, gillu- 
lim', which has the closest affinity with bbjj, ge'lel, 
dung. The margin of the English Bible, indeed, gives 
“ dungy gods” as the rendering of this word in Deut. 
xxix, 17. See Beelzeeul. 

In the first quoted passage allusion is made to flies, 


chiefly of the family Muscuhr, getting into vessels of 
ointment or other substances: even in this country 
we know what an intolerable annoyance the house- 
flies are in a hot summer when they abound, crawling 
everywhere and into everything ; but in the East the 
nuisance is tenfold greater. There the common house- 
flies (Musca domestica) swarm in immense numbers ; 
and though they inflict no physical injury, yet, from 
their continual settling on the face, they are inexpress- 
ibly annoying (Rosenmiiller, Alterth. IV, ii, 420 sq. ; 
Russel, Aleppo , ii, 123 sq. ; Tavernier, i, 74 ; compare 
Prosp. Alp. Descr. JEgypt. iv, 3, p. 207). In Egypt the 
peasants are so subject to a virulent kind of ophthal- 
mia that almost every second person is said to be af- 
fected with it, and multitudes are blind of either one 
or both eyes. The complaint is greatly augmented 
by the constant presence of the flies, which congregate 
around the diseased eyes, attracted by the moisture 
which exudes ; and so useless is it to drive them away, 
that the miserable people submit to the infliction, and 
little children are seen with their eyes margined with 
rows of black flics, of whose presence they appear un- 
conscious, though presenting a most painful sight to 
Europeans (Lorent. p. 25, 48; compare Forskal, Descr. 
Anim. p. 85; Rosenmiiller, in Bochart’s Ilieroz. iii, 342). 
The “ointment of the apothecary,” composed of sub- 
stances perhaps peculiarly attractive to these impu- 
dent intruders, would be likely to become choked up 
with their entangled bodies, which, corrupting, would 
be the more offensive for their contrast with the ex- 
pected odor. Thus would little follies render despica- 
ble him who had a reputation for wisdom. The man 
is the ointment, his reputation the perfume, his little 
folly the dead fly, his disgrace the stinking savor. See 
Unguent. 

In the other passage, the zebub from the rivers of 
Egypt has by some writers, as by Oedmann ( Vermisch. 
Samm.x i, 79), been identified with the zimb of which 
Bruce ( Trav . v, 190) gives a description, and which is 
evidently some species of Tubanus. Sir G. Wilkinson 
has given some account (Transac. of the Entomological 
Soc . ii, p. 183) of an injurious fly under the name of 
dthebab , a term almost identical with zebub. It would 
not do to press too much upon this point when it is 
considered that Egypt abounds with noxious insects; 
but it must be allowed that there is some reason for 
this identification ; and though, as was stated above, 
zebub is probably a generic name for any flies, in this 
passage of Isaiah it may be used to denote some very 
troublesome and injurious fly, tear i^o\i}v. “The 
dthebab is a long gray fly which comes out about the 
rise of the Nile, and is like the cleg of the north of 
England ; it abounds in calm hot weather, and is often 
! met with in June and Jul} r , both in the desert and on 
j the Nile.” This insect is very injurious to camels, 
and causes their death if the disease which it gener- 
ates is neglected ; it attacks both man and beast. The 
phrase hissing, or, rather, /listing, for the fly (Isa. vii, 
18) is explained in the article Bee. 
i 2. Arob ' (Z^V ; Sept. Kvvopma, Vulg. omne. genus 
muscanun, muscat diversi generis, musca gravissima ; but 
in Psa. canomyia; A. V. “swarms of flies,” “divers 
sorts of flies”'), the name of the insect or insects which 
God sent to punish Pharaoh (Exod. viii, 21-31 ; see 
Psa. lxxviii, 45; cv, 31). The question as to what 
particular insect is denoted by arob, or whether any 
one species is to be understood by it, has long been a 
matter of dispute. The scriptural details are as fol- 
lows : the arob filled the houses of the Egyptians, they 
covered the ground, they lighted on the people, the 
land was laid waste on their account. From the ex- 
pression in ver. 31, “there remained not one,” some 
writers have concluded that the Ileb. word points to 
some definite species; we do not think, however, that 
much stress ought to be laid upon this argument ; if 
the arob be taken to denote “swarms,” as the A. V. 



FLY 


G08 


FODDER 


Penders it, the “not one remaining” may surely have 
for its antecedent an individual fly understood in the 
collective “swarms.” The Sept, explain arub by kv- 
ropvia, i. e. “dog-fly;” it is not very clear what in- 
sect is meant by the Greek term, which is frequent in 
Homer, who often uses it as an abusive epithet. Thus 
he represents Mars as applying the epithet to Minerva 
for instigating the gods to quarrel (II. xxi, 394). It is 
also referred to as an insect by /Elian, who, in describ- 
ing the myops, talcums, or horse-fly, says it is similar 
to what is called the icvjuqana (/list. Anim. iv, 51). 
Philo, in his IJfe of Moses (i, 23, p. 401, ed. Mangey), 
expressly describes it as a biting insidious creature, 
which comes like a dart, with great noise, and, rushing 
with great impetuosity on the skin, sticks to it most 
tenaciously. It seems likely that Jerome, in trans- 
lating Exodus, derived the word from 2^2, “to min- 
gle,” and understood by it a mixture of noxious crea- 
tures, as did Josephus, Aquila, and all the ancient trans- 
lators. The diversity of Jerome’s renderings in Ex- 
odus, however, betokens his uncertainty, and in the 
Psalms he has adopted that of the Septuagint. More 
modern writers, reasoning on other senses of the He- 
brew word, which are somewhat numerous, have pro- 
posed several different insects. Thus one of the mean- 
ings of 2^2 is “ to darken,” and Mouffet observes that 
the name cynomyia agrees with no kind of flies better 
than with those black, large, compressed flies which 
boldly beset cattle, and not only obtain ichor, as other 
flies, but also suck out blood from beneath, and occa- 
sion great pain. He observes that they have no pro- 
boscis, but, instead of it, have double sets of teeth, like 
wasps, which they infix deeply in the skin ; and adds 
that they greatly infest the ears of dogs (Theat. Insect. 
exi). Plin} r describes an insect of this kind (Hist. 
Aai. xi, 40); so also Columella (vii, 13). (See Pliny 
bv Grandsagne and Cuvier, Parisiis, 1828, ii, 4G1, note.) 
But the ancient naturalists generally describe the cy - 
nmnuia as a sort of whame-fly (Tabanus'), which might 
include both senses, for this genus is most impudently 
pertinacious in its assaults, spares neither man nor 



beast, gorges itself to bursting with blood, infusing an 
irritating venom at the same time, and occurs, in suit- 
able localities even in our own climate, in immense 
numbers. If the arob was composed of one or more 
species of Tabrmidce, miraculously augmented in num- 
bers, and preternaturally induced to penetrate into the 
houses, such a visitation would he a plague of no slight 
intensity, even supposing their blood-thirstiness and 
pertinacity, individually considered, to be of no higher 
standard than we are accustomed to see. It is not im- 
probable that one of the Ilippob oscidcc, perhaps II. equi- 
na, Linn., is the Kvvopvia of /Elian (A r . A. iv, 51), 
though llomer may have used the compound term to 
denote extreme impudence, implied hv the shameless- 
ness of the dog and the teasing impertinence of the 
common fly (Mused). As the arob are said .to have 
filled the houses of the Egyptians, it seems not improb- 
able that common flies (Muscidai) are more especially 
intended, and that the compound Kvvoftvta denotes the 
grievous nature of the plague, though we see no rea- 


son to restrict the arob to any one famil}'. “ Of in* 
sects,” says Sonnini (Trav. iii, 199), “the most troub- 
lesome in Egypt are flies ; both man and beast are cru- 
elly tormented with them. No idea can be formed of 
their obstinate rapacity. It is in vain to drive them 
away; they return again in the self-same moment, and 
their perseverance wearies out the inost patient spir- 
it.” The arob may include various species of Culicidm 
(gnats), snch as the musquito, if it is necessary to in- 
terpret the “devouring” nature of the arob (in Psa. 
lxxviii, 45) in a strictly literal sense; though the ex- 
pression used by the Psalmist is not inapplicable to 
the flies, which even to this day in Egypt may be re- 
garded as a “plague,” and which are the great instru- 
ment of spreading the well-known ophthalmia, this be- 
ing conveyed from one individual to another by these 
dreadful pests ; or the literal meaning of the arob “ de- 
vouring” the Egyptians may be understood in its full- 
est sense of the Muscidce if we suppose that the people 
may have been punished by the larvae gaining admit- 
tance into the bodies, as into the stomach, frontal si- 
nus, and intestines, and so occasioning in a hot climate 
many instances of death (see, for cases of Myasis pro- 
duced by Dipterous larvee, Transactions of Entomol. Soc. 
ii, 2G6-2G9). See Gnat. 

The identification of the arob with the cockroach 
(Blattci Orientalis ), which Oedmann (Verm. Sam. pt. ii, 
c. 7) suggests, and which Kirby (Bridgw. Treat, ii, 357) 
adopts, has nothing at all to recommend it, and is pure- 
ly gratuitous, as Mr. Hope proved in 1837 in a paper 
on this subject in the Trans. Ent. Soc. ii, 179-183. The 
error of calling the cockroach a beetle, and the confu- 
sion which has been made between it and the sacred 
beetle of Egypt (Ateuchus sacer ), has recently been re- 
peated by M. Kalisch (Hist, and Crit. Comment. Exod. 
1. c.). The cockroach, as Mr. Hope remarks, is a noc- 
turnal insect, and prowls about for food at night ; “ but 
what reason have we to believe that the fly attacked 
the Egyptians by night and not by day ?” The mira- 
cle involved in the plague of flies consisted, partly at 
least, in the creature being brought against the Egyp- 
tians in so great an abundance during winter . Possi- 
bly, however, the better rendering of the Hebrew would 
be beetles. (See AVibel’s treatise, Ueber der Arob, in 
the “ Friihaufgelesene Friichtef 1738, p. 244.) — Ivitto, 
s. v. ; Smith, s. v. ; Fair bairn, s. v. See Beetle. 

Flying buttress, in Gothic architecture, a but- 
tress extended above the wall of the side aisles, or 
other outer wall, and connected with the wall of the 
clerestory, or of a tower, by a portion of an arch, to af- 
ford lateral support. 

Fo, Foe (or Fun), the Chinese name for Buddha 
(the first syllable of Foe-t'a or Fu-t'a — Buddha). See 
Hardwick, Christ and other Masters, ii, 74, 84, 95; and 
the articles Buddhism; China (ii, 249) ; Fuh-He; 
Lamaism. 

Foal (“?“, eiyir, or simply “2, the son of an ass, 
Zech. ix, 9, as v\6q in Matt, xxi, 5), an ass’s colt (Gen. 
xxxii, 15; xlix, 11). See Ass; Colt. 

Foam occurs as a translation of (ke'tseph, 
something brokeit) : in llos. x, 7, “As for Samaria, her 
king is cut off as the foam upon the water,” after the 
Vulg. sjmma. The Sept, doubtless gives the correct 
sense, (ppvyavov, a dry twig or splinter. Horsley 
(Comment, in loe.) renders “ bubble.” 

“ Foam” is the true meaning of a<pooQ, froth (Luke 
ix, 39; with its derivatives in Mark ix, 18, 20; Jude 
13). 

Fodder (?*>2, belil', Job vi, 5 ; xxiv, G ; Isa. xxx, 
24). In the second passage in Job this word is ren- 
dered in our version “corn the margin gives “min- 
gled corn or dredge ;” in that of Isaiah it is rendered 
“ provender.” The word properly signifies a mixture, 
a medley. Gesenius (Heb. Ler.) says, “ The two latter 
passages are most clearly understood by a reference 


FOGGI m 


609 


FONT 


to the Roman farrago (Pliny, 1 list. Nat.), consisting 
of barley or oats, mixed with vetches and beans, which 
were sown and reaped together.” 

Foggini, Pietro Frvncisco, an Italian archaeol- 
ogist, was born in 1713 at Florence, devoted himself 
to the Church, and was made doctor at Pisa. In 1741 
he published De primis Florentinorum Apostolis, and 
an edition of Virgil (Florence, 4to). In 1742 Foggini 
accepted an invitation from Bottari, second librarian 
of the Vatican, to come to Home, where Benedict XIV 
gave him a place in the pontifical academy of history, 
and made him sub-librarian at the Vatican. In 1775 
he succeeded Bottari as librarian. He died at Rome 
Way 31, 1783. lie devoted great part of his life to the 
study of the MSS. of the Vatican ; and published, be- 
sides the works already mentioned, Epiphanius, Be 
XII gemmis , etc. (Rome, 1743, 4 to) : — Epiphanius Sa- 
lomo, Comment, in Cant. (Rome, 1750, 4to) : — Appendix 
Ilistorice Byzantince (Rome, 1777). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate , xviii, 35. 

Fo-hi. See Fuii-He. 

Fold (properly Pfl'TS, gedcrah a place walled in, 
Numb. xxxii,16, 24, 3(5; a court -yard, John x, 1, 
16; also miklah', a place shut up, Hab. iii, 17 ; 

Psa. 1, 9 ; lxxviii, 70 ; whereas “D", dober , Isa. v, 17 ; 
Mic. ii, 12; and navch 2 Sam. vii, 8; 1 Chron. 
xvii, 7 ; Isa. lxv, 10 ; Jcr. xxiii, 3 ; Ezek. xxv, 5 ; 
xxxiv, 14, signify pasture, and Trmgvi], John x, 16, the 
flock itself), a small enclosure for flocks to rest together 
(Isa. xiii,20). It appears that, before the shearing, the 
sheep were collected together into an uncovered en- 
closure ( au \)) ), surrounded by a wall (John x, 11, 16). 
The object of this is that the wool may be rendered 
finer by the sweating and evaporation which necessa- 
rily result from the flock being thus crowded together. 
These are the sheepfolds mentioned in Numb, xxx, 
16 ; xxiv, 36 ; 2 Sam. vii, 8 ; Zeph. ii, 6, etc. No other 
kind than this are used in the East (Jahn, Archceot. § 
46). See Pasturage. Such an enclosure, open above, 
was often made ofhurdlcs, in which, during the sum- 
mer months, the flocks are kept by night or at noon. 
They were usually divided into two parts for the dif- 
ferent kinds of flocks, i. e. sheep and goats (Judg. v, 
16). See Flock. The gentlemen forming the Scotch 
Mission of Inquiry to the Jews in 1839, when at Esh- 
taol, observed, “Many large flocks of sheep and goats 
were coming into the village, and we followed the 
footsteps of the flocks in order to see where they were 
lodged all night. We found the dwellings to he mere- 
ly cottages of mud, with a. door, and sometimes also a 
window, into a court-yard. In this yard the flocks 
were lying down, while the villagers were spreading 
their mats to rest within. Small mud walls formed 
frail partitions to keep separate the larger and smaller 
cattle, for oxen, horses, and camels were in some of 
these enclosures.” In the East it is common for shep- 
herds to make use of ruined edifices to shelter their 
flocks from the heat of the middle of the day and from 
the dangers of the night. Thus it was prophesied of 
the cities of Ammon, Aroer, and Judaea that they 
should be couching-placcs for flocks (Ezek. xxv, 5; 
Isa. xvii, 2; xxxii, 14). But Babylon was to be vis- 
ited with a far greater desolation, and to become unfit 
even for such a purpose (Isa. xiii, 19). The peculiar 
expression in Psa. lxviii, 13, “ Though ye have lien 
among the pots,” or, according to J. D. Michaelis, 
“ drinking-troughs” or “water-troughs,” would be bet- 
ter rendered, “ Though ye have lien among the folds.” 
See Pot. To lie among the folds, says Gesenius, seems 
to be spoken proverbially of shepherds and husband- 
men living in leisure and quiet. In John x, 16, the 
Jews and Gentiles are represented under the image of 
two different flocks enclosed in different folds. See 
Sheep. 

Follen, Charles Theodore Christian, LL.D., 
III.— Q Q 


a Unitarian minister, was born at Romrod, Ilcsse- 
Darmstadt, September 4, 1796. He was educated at 
the Gymnasium and University of Giessen, which 
last he entered in 1813. After the battle of Leipsic 
he entered the army as a volunteer against the dom- 
ination of Napoleon. In 1815 he returned to the 
university, and received his degree of doctor of laws 
in 1817. In 1819 he lectured on the Pandects and 
the Roman law in Jena ; but he had incurred the 
hatred of the government for his advocacy of free- 
dom, and in 1820 he retired to Switzerland. In 1821 
he was appointed lecturer at the University of Basle, 
but in 1824 the governments of Russia, Prussia, and 
Austria demanded his surrender as a political prison- 
er. He was advised to depart, and, after various ad- 
ventures and escapes, reached New-York January 12, 
1825. He was soon after appointed professor of Ger- 
man at Harvard, and in 1828 was made professor of 
Church History in the theological school at Cambridge. 
He engaged at an early period with all his heart in the 
American anti-slavery movement, a course which al- 
ienated some of his friends, and hindered his advance- 
ment. He finally became pastor of a Unitarian church 
in East Lexington, Mass. On the night of Jan. 13, 
1840, he perished in the burning of the steamer Lex- 
ington in Long Island Sound. He was a thorough 
scholar, and a man of the purest principles, and of 
courageous devotion to them. His writings were pub- 
lished after his death by his widow, under the title, 
The IPorLs of Charles Follen, with a. Memoir of his Life 
(Bost. 1841, 5 vols. 12mo ). — Christian Examiner, 1842, 
p. 33 ; Sprague, Unitar. Pulpit, p. 538. 

Folly. See Fool. 

Font (baptismal), the vessel containing the water 
for baptism. It was for some time the custom to bap- 
tize in or near flowing streams of water. Then bap- 
tisteries were erected outside of churches. Properly 
speaking, the baptistery was the building in which 
baptism was performed ; and the vessel in which it 
was performed was called in Greek KoXvpfiijQpa, in 
Latin piscina. At a later period the vessel for bap- 
tism was placed in the church, and calledybwj, font or 
fountain. Fonts finally came to be generally made as 



vases of stone, elevated three or four feet from the 
floor, supported by a stone standard, and usually placed 
before the altar. They were frequently lined with 
silver, lead, or brass, and were usually adorned with 
ornamental work in the same style as the church edi- 
fice, or with bas-reliefs of scriptural scenes. In form, 
the early fonts were sometimes round, and sometimes 
built in the shape of a cross or of a tombstone (Rom. 
vii). At first fonts were covered simply with a lid. 
These were later enlarged into high and highly-orna- 
mented pinnacles or spires. — Bingham, Ong. Eccles. bk. 



FONSECA 


G10 


FONTEVRAULT 


viii, chap, vii ; Parker, Glossary of Architecture, s. v. ; 
Martigny, Dicdonnaire des andquites Chritiennes. 



Fonseca, Pedro da, a Jesuit and metaphysician, 
was born at Cortizada, Portugal, 1528. lie entered 
the order in 1548, and in a few years was made pro- 
fessor of philosophy at Coimbra, and afterwards pro- 
fessor of theology at Evorn. He obtained the name 
of the u Portuguese Aristotle.” lie stood high in the 
f.ivor of king Philip II and of pope Gregory XI II. 
lie died Xov. 4, 1599. He was the first who publicly 
taught the doctrine relative to the divine prescience 
kno.vn as scientia media , and which was discussed long 
and furiously between the adherents of Molina (who 
was a pupil of Fonseca) and the Dominicans. Sec 
Prescience. Among his works are Comment aril in 
A ristotelem (4 vols., often reprinted): — Institutiones 
Dialecdcce (Lisbon, 15G4) : — De concord . providenticc et 
grade Dei cum libero arbit. horn. (Lisb. 1588). — lloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate , xviii,81. 

Fonte Avellana, Order of, a monastic order 
of the Homan Catholic Church. The name is derived 
from the desert of Fonte Avellana, near Faenza, where 
the first monastery of the order was established in 
1001 by Ltulolf, subsequently bishop of Eugubio. The 
best known member of this order is the abbot Teter 
Damiani (q. v.), under whom it made considerable 
progress. Little is known of its subsequent history, 
except that it greatly degenerated. In 1570, cardinal 
Jules de I.i Rovere, who had been appointed by pope 
Pius V abbot in commendam of the abbey of Fonte 
Avellana, caused the monks to unite with the Camal- 
dulenses. — llelyot; Migne, Diet, des Ordres Reluji ux, 
s. y. Font-Avellane. (A. J. 8.) 

Fontein, Pieter, was born in 1708. lie enjoyed 
the instructions of the celebrated Tiberius Hemster- 
huis and Albert Schultens. His taste for the litera- 
ture of antiquity was developed under their able tui- 
tion. II is first charge was aTlaptist congregation in 
Rotterdam, to which he was called in 1792. Here he 
labored seven years. From this field of labor he was J 


transferred to a similar one in Amsterdam, where he 
remained till his death, which occurred in 1788 or 1789. 
The literary taste acquired in early life he continued 
to cultivate. He became an uncommon proficient in 
Greek and Roman literature. He edited the Cliarac - 
teres Ethici of Theophrastus according to a Florentine 
MS. He was on terms of friendly intercourse with 
the most eminent scholars of the age. His library, 
containing the best editions of the Greek and Roman 
classics, and enriched with the stores of patristic, the- 
ological, and philosophical literature, was bequeathed 
to the Baptist church in Amsterdam. By this bequest, 
which served for the foundation of the valuable libra- 
ry of the Baptists in that city, he conferred a great 
and lasting benefit on the cause of theological educa- 
tion. See Glasius, Godgeleerd Nederland , i Deel, biz. 
470 ; also Blaupot ten Cate, Geschiedenis der Doopsge- 
zinden in Holland enzv . ii Deel, biz. 150 verv.; 8. Mul- 
ler, Geschiedenis van het onderwijs in de theologie by de 
Nederl. Doopsgezinden,' biz. 70. (J. P. W) 

Fonteuay, Pierre Claude, a Jesuit, was born 
at Paris in 1083. He became rector of the college at 
Orleans, but was recalled to Paris to continue Longue- 
vaFs Ilistoire de V Eglise Gallicane , of which he wrote 
vols. ix, x. He died at La Fleche, Oct. 15, 1742. — 
Migne, Diet . de Biog . Chretienne , s. v. 

Fontevrault, Order of {Or do Fronds EbraJdi ), 
a monastic order of the Roman Catholic Church, found- 
ed at the elose of the 11th -century by Robert of Ar- 
brissel [see Arijiiissel], who in the forest of Craon 
united a number of hermits under the rule of St. Au- 
gustine. The number of members rapidly increased, 
and Arbrisscl had to establish several convents for 
men and women. The latter were divided into three 
different establishments, namely, 1 {Le Grand * M ou- 
der), for virgins and widows ; 2 {St. Lazarus), for lep- 
rous and other sick people; 3 (St. Magdalen), for fall- 
en women who wished to reform. The whole order 



Nun of Fontevrault. Monk of Fontevrault. 


was devoted to the glorification of the Virgin Mary, 
and the men of the order were placed under the su- 
preme jurisdiction of the abbess of Fontevrault, who 
became the general of the whole order. Ilersende, a 
relative of the duke of Bretagne, was the first abbess; 
IVtronella, baroness of Cheinilles, her assistant. The 
order was confirmed by pope Paschal II (in 1100, and 
again in 1113). After the death of the founder, the 
number of convents gradual!}" rose to about sixty, all 
of which, with the exception of a few in Spain and 
England, were in France. The history of the order 
presents no facts of importance ; it soon degenerated to 
an even higher degree than the majority of the medi- 
aeval orders. Attempts to reform it were made by the 
abbesses Maria of Bretagne (1477), Reuate of Bourbon 



FOOD 


611 


FOOD 


(1507), and Antoinette of Orleans (1571 to 1608), but 
they had no lasting results. The whole order perished 
during the French Revolution ; the last abbess, Julie 
Sophie Charlotte de Pardaillan, died in Paris in 1799. 
No attempt has since been made to revive it. — Wetzer 
und Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iv, 109 ; Helyot (ed. Migne), 
Ordres Religieux , s. v. ; Honore Niquet, Hist, de V Ordre 
de Font. (Angres, 1586). (A. J. S.) 

Food (represented by several Heb. and Gr. words 
[especially some derivative of the verb 7CN, aka l , 
to eat]) which are variously rendered in the A. V.). 
Compare Victuals. 

I. Materials. — The original grant of the Creator 
made over to man the use of the vegetable world for 
food (Gen. i, *29), with the exception of the tree of the 
knowledge of good and evil (Gen.ii, 17), and, as some 
hold, also, the tree of life (iii, 22). So long as man 
continued in Paradise, he doubtless restricted his choice 
of food within the limits thus detined ; but whether, as 
is commonly stated, we arc to regard this as character- 
istic of the entire period between the creation of Adam 
and the grant of animal food to Noah after the flood 
(Gen. ix, iii), admits of doubt. It is doing no violence 
to the passage last cited to view it rather in the light 
of an ordinance intended to regulate a practice already 
in use, than as containing the first permission of that 
practice; and when we consider that man is, by his 
original constitution, omnivorous, that there are spe- 
cial adaptations in his frame, as made by God, for the 
use of animal food, that from the beginning he was ac- 
quainted with the use of fire, that from the beginning 
there was a distinction known to him between clean 
and unclean animals (Gen. vii, 2, 8), corresponding ap- 
parently to a distinction between animals good for 
food and animals not so, and that the pastoral was as 
early as the agricultural occupation among men, it 
seems more probable than otherwise that the use of 
animal food was not unknown to the antediluvians. 
Perhaps some fierce or cruel custom connected with 
the use of raw flesh, such as Bruce found in his day 
among the Abyssinians, and such as Moses glances at 
(Exod. xii, 9), may have prevailed among the more 
barbarous and ferocious of the antediluvians; and it 
may have been in order to check this that the com- 
munication recorded in Gen. ix, 2-5, was made to Noah. 
It is not, however, to be overlooked that, in the tradi- 
tions of antiquity, the early age ot the world was rep- 
resented as one in which men did not use animal food 
(Diod. Sic. i, 43; ii, 38; Ovid, Metam . i, 101 sq. ; xv, 
96 sq. ; Fast, iv., 395 scp). 

In the Patriarchal age the food of the ancestors of 
the Hebrews comprised the flesh of animals both tame 
and wild, as well as the cereals. AVe read of their us- 
ing not only cakes of tine meal, but also milk and but- 
ter, and the flesh of the calf, the kid, and game taken 
by hunting (Gen. xviii, G-8; xxvii, 3, 4). They used 
also leguminous food, and a preparation of lentiles 
seems to have been a customary and favorite dish 
with them (Gen. xxv, 34). They made use also of 
honey (either honey of bees or sirup of grapes), spices, 
nuts, and almonds (Gen. xliii, 11). 

During their residence in Egypt the Israelites shared 
in the abundance of that land ; there they “sat by the 
flesh-pots, and did eat hread to the full” (Exod. xvi, 
3) ; and amid the privations of the wilderness they re- 
membered with regret and murmuring “ the fish which 
they did eat in Egypt freely (the abundance of fish in 
Egypt is attested by Diod. Sic. i, 34, 36 ; and ^Elian, 
De Xat. Anim. x, 43), the cucumbers and the melons, 
and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic” (Numb, 
xi, 5). These vegetable products have always form- 
ed an important part of the food of the people of Egypt ; 
and the abundant use also of animal food by them is 
sufficiently attested by the monuments (Wilkinson, 
Anc. Egypt. ii, 367-374). 

In their passage through the wilderness, the want 


of the ordinary materials of food was miraculously sup- 
plied to the Israelites by the manna. As it was of 
importance that their flocks and herds should not 1 e 
whollj” consumed or even greatly reduced before their 
entering on the promised land, they seem to have been 
placed under restrictions in the use of animal food, 
though this was not forbidden (Lev. xvii, 3 s q.) ; and 
when their longing for this food broke out into rebel- 
lious murmurs, a supply was sent to them b} r means 
of large flocks of a species of partridge very much in 
| use in the East (Exod. xvi, 11-13; Numb, xi, 31; 

I comp. Diod. Sic. i, 60). 

When they reached the promised land, “the land 
I flowing with milk and honey,” abundance of all kinds 
1 of food awaited the favored people. The rich pasture- 
lands of Palestine enabled them to rear and maintain 
large flocks and herds; game of various kinds was 
abundant in the more mountainous and uninhabited 
j districts ; fish was largely supplied by the rivers and 
inland seas, and seems to have been used to a consid- 
erable extent (2 Chron. xxxiii, 14; Neh. ii!, 3; Matt, 
vii, 10; xiv, 17; xv, 34; Luke xxiv, 42; John xxi, 
6-14), so that the destruction of it was represented as 
j a special judgment from God (Isa. 1, 2; Hos. iv, 3; 
Zeph.i, 3). See ITsir. In the Mosaic code express 
regulations are laid down as to the kinds of animals 
that may be used in food (Lev. xi ; Deut. xiv). Those 
expressly permitted are, of Leasts, the ox, the sheep, 
the goat, the hart, the roebuck, the fallow-deer, the 
wild goat, the pygarg, the wild ox, the chamois, and, in 
general, every beast that parteththe hoof and cleaveth 
the cleft into two claws [that is, where the hoof is com- 
pletely parted, and each part is separately cased in 
bone], and cheweth the cud; of juh, all that have 
scales and fins ; of fowls , all clean birds, that is, all ex- 
| cept the carnivorous and piscivorous birds; of insects , 
the locust, the bald locust, the beetle, and the grass- 
hopper. Whether the Hebrews attended to the rear- 
ing of gallinaceous fowls remains a matter of doubt. 

: See Cock. 

Besides animals declared to be unclean, the Israel- 
I ites were forbidden to use as food anything which had 
j been consecrated to idols (Exod. xxxiv, 15); animals 
which had died of disease or been torn by wild beasts 
(Exod. xxii, 31 ; Lev. xxii, 8 ; comp. Ezek. iv, 14), and 
I certain parts of animals, viz. the blood (Lev. xx'vii, 10; 

, xix, 26 ; Deut. xii, 16-23), the fat covering the intes- 
tines, the kidneys, and the fat covering them, the fat 
of any part of the ox, or sheep, or goat, especially the 
; fat tail of certain sheep (Exod. xxix, 13-22; Lev. iii, 
4-9, 10 ; ix, 19). They were also forbidden to use any 
food or liquids occupying a vessel into which the dead 
body of any unclean beast had fallen, as well as all 
i food and liquids which had stood uncovered in the 
apartment of a dead or dying person (Numb, xix, 15). 
The eating of a kid boiled in the milk or fat of its 
mother was also prohibited (Exod. xxiii, 19; xxxiv, 
26; Deut. xiv, 21). These restrictions rested chiefly, 
doubtless, on religious and theocratic grounds [see 
I Fat], but for some of them reasons of a sanitary kind 
[ may also have existed. It belonged to the essence 
of the theocratic system that the people should be con- 
■ stantly surrounded by what reminded them of their 
separation to Jehovah, and the need of keeping them- 
j selves free from all that would level or lower t he dis- 
tinction between them and the nations around them. 
For this reason specific restrictions v r ere laid upon 
their diet, which were not attended to by other na- 
tions, nor were always insisted on in the case of stran- 
gers dwelling within their bounds (Dent, xiv, 21). 
This does not, however, preclude our admitting that 
reasons of a social or political kind may also have con- 
spired to render these restrictions desirable. In warm 
climates the importance of avoiding contagion render- 
ed the utmost caution necessary in handling whatever 
may have been exposed to the influence of a corpse ; 
and it is well known that the use of adipose matter in 


FOOD 


612 


FOOD 


food requires, in such climates, to be restricted within 
narrow limits. The peculiar prohibition of a kid boil- 
ed in its mother’s milk was ordained probably for the 
purpose of avoiding conformity to some idolatrous 
usage, or for the purpose generally of encouraging 
humane feelings on the part of the Israelites towards 
their domesticated animals (Spencer, De Legg. Jlebr. 
Jht null . bk. ii, ch. viii; Michaelis, Mos . Recht , iv, 200). 
•See Clean. 

Subject to these restrictions, the Israelites were free 
to use for food all the produce of their fertile and favor- 
ed land. “Thou shaft bestow thy money, ” said God 
to them, “for whatsoever thy soul lusteth after, for 
oxen, or for sheep, or for wine, or for strong drink, 
and thou shalt eat thereof before the Lord thy God, 
and thou shalt rejoice, thou and thy household” (Dent, 
xiv, 20 ). In the enumeration of blessings conferred by 
God on Israel, we find “ honey out of the rock, and oil 
out of the flinty rock, butter of kine, and milk of sheep, 
with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, 
and goats, with the fat of kidneys of wheat,” specified 
as among his free gifts to his people (Dent, xxxii, 13, 
14). Though allowed this wide range, however, of 
animal food, the Hebrews do not seem in ordinary life 
to have availed themselves of it. The usual food of 
the people appears to have consisted of milk and its 
preparations, honey, bread, and vegetables of various 
sorts; and only at the royal table was animal food in 
daily use (1 Kings iv, 23; Neh. v, IS). The animals 
commonly used for food were calves (Gen. xviii, 7 ; 1 
Sam. xxviii, 24 ; Amos vi, 4) : these were fattened for 
the purpose, and hence were called fallings, ox fatted 
calves (/mo-yof vrnvrog, Luke xv, 23; ennord, Matt, 
xxii, 4) ; lambs, 2 Sam. xii, 4 ; Amos vi, 4) : sheep (1 
Sam. xiv, 34 ; xxv, 18 ; 1 Kings iv, 23) ; oxen stall-fed, 
or from the pastures (1 Kings i, 9; iv, 23; 2 Chron. 
xviii, 2 ; Matt, xxii, 4) ; fit cattle (5<*“*2, a particular 
kind of the bovine genus peculiar to Bashan, supposed 
bv some to be a species of buffalo or ure-ox, but not to 
be confounded with the fatling or fatted calf above 
mentioned, 2 Sam. vi, 13; 1 Kings i, 9; Amos v, 22; j 
Ezek. xxxix, 18); kids (1 Sam. xvi, 20); and various 
kinds of game, such as the ayil . the tsebi, and the 
yackmnr ( 1 Kings v, 3 [iv, 23, A. V.]). The articles 
brought by Abigail to David were bread, sheep, parch- 
ed [roa’sted] corn, raisins, and figs (1 Sam. xxv, 18); 
wdien Ziba met David on his flight from Absalom he j 
brought to him bread, raisins, and summer fruits (2 ! 
Sam. xvi, 1) ; and the present of Barzillai to the king | 
consisted of wheat, barley, flour, roasted corn, beans, j 
lentils, honey, butter, sheep, and cheese (2 Sam. xvii, 
28). We may presume from this that these formed 
the principal articles of food among the Jews at this ! 
time. Besides raisins or grapes dried in the sun, they 
used grapes pressed into cakes (m** 1 '!*^) ; they had 
also fig-cakes (Z'ipZ'n). On special occasions they 
probably indulged in more costly viands; in times of 
famine they resorted even to very vile food; in sea- 
sons of affliction they abstained from all delicacies, and 
even sometimes from all food; and to prisoners the 
food allowed seems to have been only bread and water 
(1 Kings xxii, 27 ; Jer. xxxvii, 21). 

Besides the vegetables above mentioned, the Jews 
were acquainted with tiie melon, the cucumber, the 
mallow, the leek, the onion, garlic, and bitter herbs. 
In Job vi, G, mention is made of psjlisn -PH, which 
Gesenius would translate purslain-sli/ne , or pnrslain- 
broth something extremely insipid ( Tkesaur . p. 480). 
The reasons lie gives for this arc not without force, 
but cannot be held conclusive. The A. V. “white of 
an egg,” follows the Rabbinical interpretation, which 
Bosenmiillcr, Ewald. etc., also approve ; Lee (ad verb.) 
and l urst prefer understanding it of the whey of cur- 
dled milk ; Henan translates if Iv jus de la mauve. 

The drinks of the Hebrews were, besides water, 
which was their ordinary beverage, milk, wine, and 


"iZ’r, which in the A. V. is rendered strong drink . To 
give the water a stronger relish, they probably some- 
times dissolved a portion of fig-cake in it, according to 
the fashion of the Arabs at the present day (Niebuhr, 
Arab. p. 57). The wines used were of various sorts, 
and sometimes their effect was strengthened by ming- 
ling different kinds together, or by the mixture with 
them of drugs (Psa. lxxv, 9; Prov. ix, 23, 30; Isa. v, 

I 22). A species of delicacy seems to have been fur- 
nished by “spiced wines,” that is, wines flavored by 
| aromatic herbs, or perhaps simply by the juice of the 
pomegranate (Cant, viii, 2). No mention is made ir. 
Scripture of the mixing of water with wine for the 
I purpose of drinking it; the reference in Isa. i, 22 be- 
ing to the adulteration of wine by fraudulent dealers ; 

; but the habit was so common in ancient times (comp. 
Odgss. i, 110: ix, 208 sq. ; Hippocrates, De Morb. iii, 
30; Lucian, A sin. vii; Plin. II. Nat. xxiii, 22) that we 
can hardly doubt that it was known also among tlie 
Hebrews. See Wine. Vinegar, ” «h, was also used 
by them as a means of quenching thirst (Ruth ii, 14; 
Nil in. vi, 3); mixed with oil, this is still a favorite in 
the East, and mixed with water, it was drunk by the 
Roman soldiers and poor under the name of posca 
(Pliny, II. Nat. xix, 29; xxii, 58; Plautus, Alii. Glor. 
iii, 2, 23). See Drink. 

The Hebrews made use of condiments to heighten 
the flavor of their dishes, as well as of spices to in- 
crease the effect of their wines. Besides the general 
condiment salt, they used cumin, dill, mint, corian- 
der, rue, mustard, and the seeds ot' an herb to which 
they gave the name of “ fitches.” Sometimes 
their made dishes were so richly flavored that the na- 
ture of the meat used could not be discovered (Gen. 
xxvii, 9, 25). Besides myrrh, with which they flavor- 
ed their wines, the Hebrews used various odoriferous 
products ; but whether they used any of these with 
1 food is uncertain. See Aromatics. 

II. Methods of Preparation. — The early acquaint- 
ance of the race with the use of fire renders it proba- 
ble that from the beginning men used some process of 
cooking in the preparation of their food, except in the 
j ease of such products as are more agreeable to the pal, 
ate in a crude than in a concocted state. The eereah 
were sometimes eaten raw (Lev. xxiii, 1 1 ; Dent, xxiii, 
25; 2 Kings iv, 42; Matt, xii, 1) ; but from an early 
period it was customary to roast the grains, and so pre- 
pare them for food (Lev. ii, 14 ; comp. Robinson, Bib. 
Pes. ii, 394). This received the name of (more fully 
rxz Z*ZS<) and A. V. “parched corn 

and was eaten either dry or formed into a sort of por- 
ridge, perhaps something after the manner ofth epilaio 
in the East at the present day. This was not peculiar 
to the Hebrews; even as late as the time of Virgil 
roasting was a recognised method of preparing corn 
for use {Georg, i, 2G7), though this may have been only 
preparatory to bruising it (comp. Servins on MCn. i, 
179; Pliny, II. N. xviii, 18, 23). For the preparation 
and kinds of bread in use among the Hebrews, see 
Bread and 31 ill. 

Vegetables were cooked by boiling, and seem to 
have been made into a pottage (T'TZ, the Niph. part, of 
*7*7, to boil , Gen. xxv, 30, 34 ; 2 Kings iv, 38, 39), prob- 
ably strengthened by the addition of some oily sub- 
stance, such as butter or fat, or hv having bones and 
gristles boiled down with them, as is still customary 
in the East (Shaw, Travels , p. 125, cited by Jahn, 
Archdot. I, ii, 190). 

When animal food was to be used, the animal was 
killed in such a way as to allow all the blood to leave 
the carcase, in order scrupulously to observe the pro- 
hibition, Exod. xxii, 31. Among the modern Jews, 
this is accomplished by cutting the throat of the ani- 
mal quite through, and then suspending the carcase so 
as to allow all the blood to run out the entrails with 


FOOD 


613 


FOOT 


the fat are removed, the nerves and veins extracted, 
and strict search is made lest any drop of blood should 
be allowed to remain in any part (Buxtorf, Syn. Jud. 
ch. xxvii). The flesh, thus prepared for cooking, was 
commonly boiled in water (b'i'Z, Piel of Vrz'), proba- 
bly also sometimes in milk, as is still the case among 
the Arabs. Before being put into the pot, the flesh, 
freed from the skin, appears to have been cut into small 
pieces, or perhaps this was done during the process of 
cooking (Mic. iii, 3 ; comp. Hitzig, ad loc.). The broth 
and the flesh were served up separately (Jndg. vi, lb), 
and both were eaten with bread. Salt was used to 
season the food ; spices were also occasionally intro- 
duced, and highly flavored dishes were sometimes pre- 
pared (Ezek. xxiv, 10 ; Gen. xxvii, 4 ; l’rov. xxiii, 3). 
For boiling, the pot or caldron was used; and the fuel 
was commonly wood, especially thorns (Eccles. vii, G; 
Psa. lviii, 9 ; Isa. xliv, 16; Ezek. xxiv, 10), sometimes 
the dried excrement of animals (Ezek. iv, 15), a species 
of fuel still much used in the East (Irby and Man- 
gles’s Travels , p. 172; Rae Wilson’s Travels, ii, 15G; 
Hue’s Travels , passim). Food was also prepared by 
roasting QlO'X). This was regarded as the more luxu- 
rious mode of preparation, and was resorted to chiefly 
on festive occasions. The paschal lamb was to be 
roasted whole (Exod. xii, 4, 6), but it does not appear 
that this was the usual method of roasting flesh ; it is 
more probable that the ancient Hebrews, like the mod- 
ern Arabs, roasted their meat in small portions by 
means of short spits of wood or metal placed near the 
fire, and turned as the process of cooking required 
(comp. Odyss. iii, 401-2, etc. ; II. i, 4G5, etc.). Birds 
were roasted whole on such a spit. The Persians roast 
lambs and calves entire by placing them in an oven 
(Tavernier, i, 2G9 ; Chardin, iii, 88), and this may also 
have prevailed among the fie brews. Among the poor, 
locusts were eaten roasted, as is still common among 
the Arabs, vdiose method of cooking them is as fol- 
low’s : the feet and wings having been plucked olf, and 
the entrails taken out, the body is salted, and then 
roasted by means of a wooden spit, on which a row of 
bodies similarly prepared are strung. Fish were usual- 
ly broiled (Luke xxiv, 42; John xxi, 9), but it W’ould 
seem that they w r ere sometimes cured, or at least 
brought into a state in which they could be used with- 
out farther cooking (Matt, xiv, 37, 19 ; xv, 34, 3G). In 
either case they were eaten with bread. 

In primitive times the mistress of the house pre- 
sided over the cooking of the food, as the master of 
the house charged himself with the slaughtering of the 
animals required (Gen. xviii, G, 8; Judg. vi, 19; comp. 
II. xxiv, G22, and Odyss. ii, 300). Among the Egyp- 
tian servants who w’ere professional cooks took charge 
of preparing the food (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt. ii, 382 
sq.) ; and in later times among the Hebrews similar 
functionaries were employed, both male and female 
(nz’J, 1 Sam. ix, 23, 24 ; nnEE, 1 Sam. viii, 13). The 
culinary utensils w’ere TIS, a Jeep pan (Numb, xi, 8 ; 
Jndg. vi, 19 ; 1 Sam. ii, 14) r.H 2p_ ; TO ; TH [Cal- 
dron] ; “'“PS, a basin or pan (Exod. xxx, 18 ; 1 
Sam. ii, 14 ; bsO ; nnbis ; * D ; rZHE, an iron pan ; 
nrrno, a frving-pan (Lev. ii, 5-7 ; vii, 9); E’TZn, 
pans (1 Chron. ix, 31); a fork or flesh-hook with 

which flesh was drawn from the pot (1 Sam. ii, 13, 14), 
and perhaps the flesh separated from the bones in the 
pot (Mich, iii, 3); E^TZ, a word of doubtful signifi- 
cancy, rendered by the Scp^yurpo7rocfc (Lev. xi, 34), 
by the Syr. place of pots , by Gcsenins range for pots, by 
Flirst hearth for cooking, consisting of two rows of 
stones meeting at an angle, by Rosenmiiller a place in 
the hearth under which w r as fire, and on the surface of 
which were orifices, over which pots were placed, and 
by Knobel an earthenware stew-pan (Ravius, I)e re 
cibaria vet. Ilcb. Traj. ad Rhen. 1768 ; Parcau, Antiq. 


Ilebr. p. 388 sq. ; Jahn, Archaologie , I, ii, 1G7 sq. ; 
Wilkinson, Anc. Egyptians , ii, chap. 5-7). — Kitto, s. v. 
See Cook. 

Food, Spiritual, “an expression found in two 
places in the ‘ Order for the Holy Communion’ in the 
English Church service, to signify the sustenance 
which the soul receives from the sacrifice of the flesh 
and blood, that is, the offering lip of the life of the Son 
of man (‘ for the blood,’ says Moses, ‘is the life’) to 
atone for the sins of the world, and to redeem us form 
everlasting death. Some have maintained from those 
words of our Lord, ‘This is my body,’ that the literal, 
material flesh and blood of Christ are, in some sense, 
received in the communion ; while others see clearly 
that the Church of England, at least, has taken special 
pains to guard against and exclude such a notion, both 
in the above passages, and by the language of the 38th 
Article of Religion. The opponents of the ‘material’ 
view contend also that literal flesh and blood ‘cannot 
be spiritually received,’ or ‘refresh the soul.' ” — Eden, 
Churchman s Diet. s. v. See Tran substantiation. 

Fool (represented by several Hebrew and Greek 
words, especially P23, nabaT , «0owr). The “fool” 
of Scripture is not an idiot, but an absurd person ; not 
one who does not reason at all, but one w ho reasons 
wrong ; also any one whose conduct is not regulated 
by the dictates of reason and religion (Psa. xiv, 1). 
Foolishness, therefore, is not a negative condition, but 
a condition of wrong action in the intellectual or sen- 
tient being, or in both (2 Sam. xiii, 12, 13 ; Psa. xxxviii, 
5). In the book of Proverbs, however, “foolishness” 
appears to be sometimes used for lack of understand- 
ing, although more generally for perverseness of will. 
The phrase “Thou fool” (Matt, v, 22) implies not 
only angry temper, by which such severe language is 
prompted, but a scornful, contemptuous feeling, utter- 
ly inconsistent with the love and meekness which 
characterize disciples of Christ, and of course exposing 
the individual who is under its influence to eternal 
punishment. See Wisdom. 

Focls, Feast of. See Feast of Fools. 

Foot (properly re' gel, jroPf). Of the various 

senses in which the word “foot” is used in Scripture, 
the following are the most remarkable. Such phrases 
as the “slipping” of the foot, the “stumbling” of the 
foot, “ from head to foot” (to express the entire body), 
and “footsteps” (to express tendencies, as when we 
say of one that lie walks in another's footsteps), re- 
quire no explanation, being common to most lan- 
guages. 

The extreme modest}’’ of the Hebrew language, 
w r hicli has perhaps seldom been sufficiently appreci- 
ated, dictated the use of the word “feet” to express 
the parts and the acts which it is not allowed to name. 
Hence such phrases as the “hair of the feet,” the 
“ water of the feet,” “between the feet,” “to open the 
feet,” “to cover the feet,” all of which are sufficiently 
intelligible, except perhaps the last, which certainly 
does not mean “going to sleep,” as some interpreters 
suggest, but “to dismiss the refuse of nature.” 

“ To be under any one’s feet” denotes the subordina- 
tion of a subject to his sovereign, or of a servant to his 
master (Psa. viii, G ; comp. Ileb. ii, 8; 1 Cor. xv, 20) ; 
and was doubtless derived from the symbolical action 
of conquerors, who set their feet upon the. neck or body 
of the chiefs whom they had vanquished, in token of 
their triumph. This custom is expressly mentioned 
in Scripture (Josh, x, 23), and is figured on the monu- 
ments of Egypt, Persia, and Rome. See Triumph. 

In like manner, “to be at any one’s feet” is used 
for being at the service of’any one, following him, or 
willingly receiving his instructions (Jndg. iv, 10). 
The last passage, in which Paul is described as being 
brought up “at the feet of Gamaliel,” will appear still 
clearer if we understand that, as the Jewish writers 


FOOT 


614 


FOOTMAN 


allege, pupils actually did sit on the floor before, and 
therefore at the feet of, the doctors of the law, who 
themselves were raised on an elevated seat. See DIS- 
CIPLE. 

“ Lameness of feet” generally denotes affliction or 
calamity, as in Psa. xxxv, 15; xxxviii, 18; Jer. xx, 
10; Micali iv, 6, 7 ; Zech. iii, 0. See Lame. 

“To set one’s foot” in a place signifies to take pos- 
session of it, as in Dent, i, 2G ; xi, 3-1, and elsewhere. 

“ To water with the feet” (Dent. xi, 10) implies that 
the soil was watered with as much ease as a garden, in 
which the small channels for irrigation may be turned, 
etc., with the foot. See Garden. 

An elegant phrase, borrowed from the feet, occurs in 
Gal. ii, 14, where Paul says, “ When I saw that they 
walked not uprightly,” ouk boSoTrodoi'cn, literal^, “ not 
with a straight foot,” or “ did not foot it straight!}'.” 

Nakedness of feet expressed mourning (Ezek. xxiv, 
17). This must mean appearing abroad with naked 
feet, for there is reason to think that the Jews never 
used their sandals or shoes within doors. The modern 
Orientals consider it disrespectful to enter a room with- 
out, taking off the outer covering of their feet. It is 
with them equivalent to uhcoveringthe head among En- 
ropeans. The practice of feet-washing implies a similar 
usage among the Hebrews. See Ablution; Wash- 
ing. Uncovering the feet was also a mark of adora- 
tion. Moses put off his sandals to approach the burning 
lmsh where the presence of God was manifested (Exod. 
iii, 5). Among the modern Orientals it would be re- 
garded as the height of profanation to enter a place of 
worship with covered feet. The Egyptian priests of- 
ficiated barefoot : and most commentators are of opin- 
ion that the Aaronite priests served with bare feet in 
the tabernacle, as, according to all the Jewish writers, 
they afterwards did in the Temple, and as the frequent 
washings of their feet enjoined by the law seem to im- 
ply. See Sandals. 

The passage, “ How beautiful upon the mountains 
are the feet of him that bringetli glad tidings, that 
publisheth peace” (Isa. Iii, 7), appears to signify that, 
although the feet of messengers and travellers are usu- 
ally rendered disagreeable by the soil and dust of the 
way, yet the feet of these blessed messengers seemed, 
notwithstanding, even beautiful, on account of the glad 
tidings which they bore (see Wemyss, Symbol . Diet. 
s. w). — Ivitto, s. v. 

Foot, Joseph Ives, D.D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, and president of Washington College, Tenn., was 
born at Watertown, Conn., Nov. 17, 1700, and gradua- 
ted at Union College in 1821. Having passed through 
the usual theologP A course at Andover, he was li- 
censed In 1824, and ordained as an evangelist, when 
lie went to South Carolina, and labored successfully 
for some months. Returning to New England, he 
preached for some time at Boston, and at a later pe- 
riod was called to the Congregational church at West 
Brookfield, Mass. From this charge he obtained a 
dismission in 1831 on account of ill health, and in 1833 
accepted a call from Salina, N. Y., where he continued 
for two years, and then accepted a call to Cortlandt. 
II ere he opposed with much ability the system of per- 
fectionism then prevalent, on which he wrote an aide 
article in the Literary and Thcoloyical Review (1834). 
In 1837 he removed to Westport, Conn., and while 
there lie joined the Presbyterian Church, with which 
lie remained connected during his life. In 1839 he 
accepted a call to the Presbyterian church of Knox- 
ville, Tenn. lie was connected with the Presbyte- 
ries of Bedford and Geneva, and with the Old-school 
Church, and while at Knoxville was elected to the 
presidency of Washington College. He was on his 
way to he inaugurated as president of the college when 
he was killed by a fall fronrliis horse, A»pril 20, 18*10. 
He published The prominent Trait in Teachers of false 
Religion (1828) : — A historical Discourse (1828) : — Ser- 


mons on Intemperance (1828): — Three Sermons on Pen 
fectionism (1834). A Memoir, with a selection from 
his MS. sermons, was published by his brother (1841, 
8vo). — Sprague, Annals , iv, GG9. 

Foot, Kissing of the Pope’s. The kissing of 
the feet of rulers was an Oriental mode of testifying 
reverence or subjection. It was also done in the West 
to some, at least, of the Roman emperors : Dioclesian 
is said to have had gems fastened to his shoes, that the 
honor of kissing his feet might be more willingly paid. 

; It was introduced as a sign of reverence for the pope 
of Rome at some date not precisely known. In de- 
fence of this practice, the Roman writers adduce an 
early usage of the sort in favor of all bishops; but it 
was kissing of the hand, not of t lie foot, that seems to 
have been the usage (Bingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. ii, eh. 
ix). The first example of an emperor kissing the 
pope’s foot is that of Justin with the foot of pope John 
I, A.D. 525. It is now practised (1) after the election 
of a new pope, when all the cardinals kiss his foot ; (2) 
on the election of a new cardinal, when he kisses the 
pope’s foot, formally, in sign of homage and submis- 
sion ; (3) at public audiences of the pope, when per- 
sons presented kiss his foot. Protestants are not re- 
quired to perform this homage when presented. A 
crucifix is fastened to the slipper, that the act of ado- 
ration may be interpreted as paid to Christ in the per- 
son of his so-called vicar. 

Footman, a word employed in the A.V. in two 
senses. See Runner. 1. Generally, to distinguish 
those of the people or of the fighting-men who went on 
foot from those who were on animals or in chariots. 
The Hebrew word for this is raglt , from regel, a 

foot. The Sept, commonly expresses it by -irtZ oi, cr 
occasionally rdypara. It is a military term, desig- 
nating the infantry of an army (I Sam. iv, 10; xv, 4 ; 
2 Sam. x, G ; Jer. xii, 5), or those simply who journeyed 
i on foot, whether soldiers or not (Exocl. xii, 37 ; Numb. 

xi, 21). In t lie latter case the word perhaps indicates 
i the male portion of the company, those who walked 
while the females rode , like the Arabic rajal, a man. 
Sometimes it is joined with a man (Jndg. xx, 2). 
See Army; Rider. 

2. The word occurs in a more special sense (in 1 
Sam. xxii, 17) as the translation of a different term, 
rats, part, of to run. This passage affords the 
first mention of the existence of a body of swift run- 
ners in attendance on the king, though such a thing 
had been foretold by Samuel (1 Sam. viii, 11). This 
body appears to have been afterwards kept up, and to 
have been distinct from the body-guard — the six hun- 
dred and the thirty — who were originated by David 
(see 1 Kings xiv, 27, 28 ; 2 Chron. xii, 10, 11 : 2 Kings 
xi, 4, G, 11, 13, 19). In each of these cases the word 
is rendered “guard:” but the translators were evi- 
dently aware of its signification, for they have put the 
word “runners” in the margin in two instances (1 
Kings xiv, 27 ; 2 Kings xi, 13). This, indeed, was 
the force of the term “footman” at the time the A.V. 

I was made, as is plain not only from the references just 
qnoted, hut, among others, from the title of a well- 
known tract of Banyan's, The heavenly Footman, or a 
Description of the Man that gets to Heaven, on 1 Cor. ix, 
24 (the apostle Paul’s figure of the race). The same 
llcb. word is also used elsewhere to denote the royal 
or praetorian guard (2 Sam. xv, 1; 1 Kings i, 5; 2 
Kings x, 25). Whether they were the same as the 
Pelethites is doubtful. The word likewise occurs (Job 
ix, 25) of any swift messenger, hence a weaver's shut- 
\ tie (Job vii, 61, and also of the couriers of the Persian 
king (Esth. iii, 13, 15 ; viii, 14). Swift running was 
evidently a valued accomplishment of a perfect war- 
rior — a gibbor , as the Hebrew word is — among the Is- 
, raelites. There are constant allusions to this in the 
| Bible, though obscured in the A.V. from the transla- 


FOOTSTEPS 


615 


FOOT-WASHING 


tors not recognising the technical sense of the word 
f/ibbor. Among others, see Psa. xix, 5 ; Job xvi, 14 ; 
Joel ii, 7, where “strong man,” “giant,” and “migh- 
ty man” are all gihbor. David was famed for his 
powers of running; they are so mentioned as to seem 
characteristic of him (1 Sam. xvii, 22, 48, 51 ; xx, G), 
and he makes them a special subject of thanksgiving 
to God (2 Sam. xxii, 30; Psa. xviii, 29). The cases 
of Cnshi and Ahimaaz (2 Sam. xviii) will occur to ev- 
ery one. It is not impossible that the former — “the 
Ethiopian,” as his name most likely is — had some pe- 
culiar mode of running. See Cusni. Asahel also 
was “swift on his feet,” and the Gadite heroes who 
came across to David in his difficulties were “ swift as 
the roes upon the mountains ;” hut in neither of these 
last cases is the word rats employed. The word prob- 
ably derives its modern sense from the custom of do- 
mestic servants running by the side of the carriage of 
their master. — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. See Guard. 

Footsteps (generally E2S, pa' am, a tread ; but 
spec. alceb Psa. lvi, G; lxxvii, 19 ; lxxxix, 51; 
Cant, i, 8, the keel, as elsewhere rendered). On the 
meaning of this term in Psa. xvii, 5, 11, Mr. Roberts 
says, among the Hindus, “a man who has the people 
watching him, to find out a cause for accusation against 
him to the king, or to great men, says, Yes, they are 
around my legs and my feet; their eyes are always 
open ; they are ever watching my suvadir, 1 steps ;’ that 
is, they are looking for the impress or footsteps in the 
earth.” For this purpose, the eyes of the enemies of 
David were “bowing down to the earth.” 

Footstool (spec. 11*22, ke'besh , something trodden 
upon; Sept, vitqttvciov v. r. ivvicvjUvoi, Yulg. scabel - 
him , 2 Citron, ix, 18). "Where sitting is referred to in 
Scripture, it is frequently spoken of as a posture of 
more than ordinary state, and means sitting on a 
throne, for which a footstool was necessary, both in or- 
der that the person might ascend to it, and for sup- 
porting the legs when he was placed in it (2 Citron, ix, 
18). The divine glory which resided symbolically in 
the holy place, between the cherubim above the ark 
of the covenant, is supposed to use the ark as a foot- 
stool (1 Chron. xxviii, 2; Psa. xeix, 5; cxxxii, 7). 
So the earth is called God’s footstool by the same ex- 
pressive figure which represents heaven as his throne 
(Psa. ex, 1 ; Isa. lxvi, 1 ; Matt, v, 35). We find, on 
the paintings in the tombs of Egypt, as well as on the 
Assyrian monuments, frequent representations of their 
kings sitting on a throne or chair of state, with a foot- 
stool. See Throne. The common manner of sitting 
in the East is upon a mat or carpet spread upon the 
ground or floor, with the legs crossed. Many of the 
Turks, however, through European intercourse, at- 
tempt to sit upon chairs. See Divan. 

Foot - washing. The custom of washing the 
feet held, in ancient times, a place among the duties 
of hospitality, being regarded as a mark of respect to 
the guest, and a token of humble and affectionate at- 
tention on the part of the entertainer. It had its ori- 
gin in circumstances for the most part peculiar to the 
East. In general, in warm Oriental climes, cleanli- 
ness is of the highest consequence, particularly as a 
safeguard against the leprosy. The East knows noth- 
ing of the factitious distinctions which prevail among 
us between sanitary regulations and religious duties ; 
but the one, ns much as the other, are considered a part 
of that great system of obligations under which man 
lies towards God. What, therefore, the health de- 
mands, religion is at hand to sanction. Cleanliness is, 
in consequence, not next to godliness, but a part of 
godliness itself. As in this Oriental view may be 
found the origin and reason of much of what the Mo- 
saic law lays down touching clean and unclean, so the 
practice of feet-washing in particular, which consider- 
ations of purity and personal propriety recommended, 


hospitality adopted and religion sanctioned. In tern, 
perate climes bathing is far too much neglected; but 
in the East the heat of the atmosphere and the dryness 
of the soil would render the ablution of the body pe- 
culiarly desirable, and make feet-washing no less grate- 
ful than salutary to the weary traveller. The foot, 
too, was less protected than with us. lu the earliest 
ages it probably had no covering, and the sandal worn 
in later times was little else than the sole of our shoe 
bound under the foot. Even this defence, however, 
was ordinarily laid aside c:i entering a house, in which 
the inmates were either barefoot or wore nothing but 
slippers. See Shoe. 

The washing of the feet is rmong the most ancient,, 
as well as the most obligator' of the rites of Eastern 
hospitality. From Gen. xviii, 4; xix, 2, it appears to 
have existed as early as the days of the patriarch 
Abraham. In Gen. xxiv, 32, also, “Abraham’s serv- 
ant” is provided with water to wash his feet, and the 
men’s feet that were with him. The same custom is 
mentioned in Judg. xix, 21. From 1 Sam. xxv, 41, it 
appears that the rite was sometimes performed by serv- 
ants and sons, as their appropriate duty, regarded as 
of an humble character. lienee, in addition to its be- 
ing a token of affectionate regard, it was a sign of hu- 
mility. Vessels of no great value appear to have been 
ordinarily kept and appropriated to the purpose. These 
vessels would gain nothing in estimation from the low- 
ly, if not mean office for which they were employed. 
Henee, probably, the explanation of Psa. lx, 8, “Moah 
is my wash-pot.” Slaves, moreover, were commonly 
employed in washing the feet of guests. The passage, 
then, in effect, declares the Moabites to be the meanest 
of God’s instruments. See Wasii-pot. 

The most remarkable instance of this custom is 
found in the 1 3th chapter of John’s Gospel, where our 
Saviour is represented as washing the feet of his disci- 
ples, with whom he had taken supper. Minute par- 
ticulars are given in the sacred narrative, which should 
be carefully studied, as presenting a true Oriental pic- 
ture. From ver. 12 sq., it is clear that the act uas of a 
symbolical nature, designed to teach, a fortiori, broth- 
el ly humility and good-will. If the master had per- 
formed for his scholars an act at once so lowly yet so 
needful, how much more were the disciples themselves 
bound to consider any Christian service whatever as a 
duty which each was to perform for the other. The 
principle involved in the particular act is, that love 
dignifies any service ; that all high and proud thoughts 
are no less unchristian than selfish ; and that the sole 
ground of honor in the Church of Christ is meek, gen- 
tle, and self-forgetting benevolence. It was specially 
customary in the days of our Ford to wash before eat- 
ing (Matt, xv, 2; Luke xi, £8). This was also the 
practice with the ancient Greeks, as may be seen in 
Jliad, x, 577. From Martial (Epirj. iii, 50, 3, “ Depo- 
sui soleas”), we see it was usual to lay aside the shoes, 
lest they should soil the linen. The usage is still 
found among the Orientals (Niebuhr, i, 54; Shaw, p. 
202). But Jesus did not pay a scrupulous regard to 
the practice, and hence drew blame upon himself from 
the Pharisees (Luke xi, 38). In this our Lord was 
probably influenced hv the superstitions abuses and 
foolish misinterpretations connected with washing be- 
fore meat. For the same reason he may purposely 
have postponed the act of washing his disciples’ feet 
till after supper, lest, while he was teaching a new les- 
son of humility, he might add a sanction to current and 
baneful errors. See Abeution. The union of affec- 
tionate attention and lowly service is found indicated 
by feet-washing in 1 Tim. v, 10, where, among the signs 
of the widows that were to be honored — supported, that 
is, at the expense of the Church — this is given, if any 
one “ have washed the saints’ feet.” — Kitto, s. v. Wash- 
ing. See Washing of Hands and Feet. 

FOOT-WASHING in the Christian Giiurch. 
The use of sandals among the Eastern nations in« 


FOOT-AY ASHIN G 


C1G 


FORBES 


Ptead of shoos, as well as the heat of the climate, 
gave rise to frequent ablutions, and especially of 
the feet. It became a duty of hospitality, and a 
mark of res]>ect towards strangers. Abraham ofter- 
ed water to the three angels (Gen. xviii, 4) to wash 
their feet; Lot did the same to the two angels who 
visited him (Gen. xix, 2) ; Abigail to the messen- 
gers of David (1 Sam. xxv, 41). The Pharisee Si- 
mon gave Jesus no water for his feet (Luke vii, 44), 
and Mary Magdalene therefore washed his feet with 
tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head. At 
the last supper Christ washed the feet of his disciples 
(John xiii, 4). This was at once a symbol and an ex 
• ample : a symbol, as it was meant to teach them (1) 
that those only whose sins were washed away by 
him, the Lamb of God, could have part with him here- 
after ; and (2) that such as had once been thus puri- 
fied in the blood of the Lamb “needeth not save to 
wash his feet, but is clean every whit” (John xiii, 10). 
The act thus performed by Christ at the institution of 
the Supper suggests to believers at every communion 
this lesson of humility. It is also an example of hu- 
mility, patience, forbearance, and charity, and partic- 
ularly of assistance in helping each other to purifica- 
tion from sin. 

Jn the early post-apostolic times, the command 11 ye 
also ought to ivash one another's feet" came to be ob- 
served not only after the spirit, but also after the letter. 
Augustine speaks (Ep. 118, ad Januariuvi) of this prac- 
tice, as also of the doubts entertained in his times as 
to the proper day wdien the ceremony ought to be per- 
formed. '1 lie Synod of Toledo, G94 (ch. iii) stated that 
it should take place on the anniversary of the day when 
Christ performed it— the Thursday, 14th of Nisan. In 
the Greek Church, foot-washing came to be even con- 
sidered as a sacrament. In the Homan Catholic 
Church, Bernard de Clairvaux strongly recommends 
it as sacramentum remissions peccatorum quotidiano- 
rum. Yet it did not become a general, public prac- 
tice in either Church. It was mostly observed at the 
installation of princes and bishops in the Middle Ages. 
In the Greek convents, however, and at the Russian 
court, it is yet observed with great solemnity (Leo Al- 
lah l)e dom. et hebd. greec. 21). In the papal court, in 
those of Vienna, Munich, Madrid, Lisbon, and in the 
cathedrals and convents of the Roman Catholic Church, 
the command is also literally carried out to this day, 
the pope, emperor, kings, etc., washing the feet of 
twelve persons, generally poor old men, who receive a 
small gratuity on the occasion. In Rome, the twelve 
representatives of the apostles are seated in the Clem- 
entine Chapel, dressed in tunics of white woollen 
cloth, and the pope, attired in the same plain manner, 
sprinkles a few drops on the right foot of each, then 
wipes and kisses it. At the beginning of the ceremo- 
ny the antiphony Mandat um novum do vobis is sung, 
from whence the ceremony of the Pedilamum is also 
called Mandatum. After this a repast takes place, at 
which the pope, assisted by his cabinet, serve the 
twelve (thirteen) apostles, who, at the close, are per- 
mitted to take away the white tunics, the towels Avitli 
which their feet have been wiped, and a small piece 
of money. 

Luther opposed “this hypocritical foot-washing,” in 
which the superior washes the feet of his inferior, who, I 
the ceremony over, will have to act all the more hum- 
bly towards him, while Christ had made it an emblem 
of true humility and abnegation, and raised thereby 
the position of those whose feet he washed. “ We 
have nothing to do,” said ho, “with feet- washing with 
water > otherwise it is not only the feet of the twelve, 
but those of everybody we should wash. People would 
be much more benefited if a general bath were at 
once ordered, and the whole body washed. If you 
wish to wash your neighbor’s feet, see that your heart 
is really humble, and help every one in becoming bet- 
ter.” i 


The Church of England at first carried out the letter 
of the command ; but, instead of it, there are now as- 
sembled in Whitehall every year as many poor men 
and women as the sovereign lias reigned years; to 
each of these are given clothes, food, and as many 
pieces of money as the sovereign counts years. The 
Anabaptists continued the practice of foot-washing, 
which, in consideration of the passages John xiii, 14; 
1 Tim. v, 10, they considered as a sacrament instituted 
I and recommended by Christ (see the Cunfessio of the 
United Baptists, or Mennouites, of 1660). The Lu- 
theran Upper Consistory of Dresden condemned in 
: 1718 twelve Lutheran citizens of Weida to public pen- 
I ancc for having permitted duke Moritz A Vilhelm to 
wash their feet. As the Moravians revived the old 
love-feasts, they also revived the practice, yet without 
1 strictly enforcing it. It used to be performed not only 
bv the leaders towards their followers, but also by the 
latter among themselves, while they sang a hymn ex- 
planatory of the symbol, in which it was called “the 
lesser baptism.” The MennoniLs (q. v.) and the River 
Brethren (q. v.) still practise foot - washing. The 
Church of God (q. v.) regards foot-washing as a posi- 
tive ordinance of perpetual standing in the Church, 
the same as baptism and the Lord’s Supper. — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. iv,. 630. (J. N. P.) 

Forbes, Rt. Hon. Duncan, one of the most em- 
inent lawyers of Scotland, was born at Bunchrew or 
Culloden in 1G85. He was educated at the University 
of Edinburgh, and afterwards spent some time at the 
universities in Leyden, Utrecht, and Paris. In 1717 
he became solicitor-general, and in 1742 lord-president 
of the court of session. In the Rebellion of 1745 he 
espoused the Hanoverian cause, and it is said that 
the ingratitude of the government so chagrined him 
that lie fell a victim to fever produced by it. Presi- 
dent Forbes cultivated the study of Hebrew and Bibli- 
cal criticism. He was a follower of the English phi- 
losopher and theological writer John Hutchinson. In 
his work, Thoughts on Religion , natural and revealed 
(Edinb. 1735-43, Svo), translated into French by father 
Houbigant), be lays down the doctrine that a system 
of natural science as well as religion could be drawn 
from the books of the O. T. if interpreted according to 
the radical import or root of the language. Forbes 
published also Reflections on the Sources of Incredulity 
with regard to Religion (Edinb. 1750, 2 vols. 12mo, or 1 
vol. 12mo): — Letters to a Bishop concerning some im- 
portant Discoveries in Philosophy and Theology (Loud.- 
1735, 4to; also translated into French by father llou- 
bigant). The entire works of Forbes, with a biograph- 
ical sketch, were published by J. Bannatvne (Edinb. 

1 181G, Svo ; 2 vols. 12mo). Bishop Warburton calls him 
the greatest man that ever Scotland produced, both as 
a judge, a patriot, and a Christian.- — Encylop. Brit, ix, 
771 ; Allibone, Diet, of Authors , i, 611. (J. II. AV.) 

Forbes, Eli, D.D., a Congregational minister, was 
born at Wes thorough, Mass., Oct. 172G ; graduated at 
Harvard College, 1751; and in 1752 became pastor of 
the church at Brookfield, Mass. In 17G2 he went on a 
mission among the Oneida Indians. In 1776 he was 
installed as pastor at Gloucester, having left his for- 
mer parish on account of a false charge of Toryism. 
He died Dec. 15, 1804. He published The Family Book 
(1801, 12mo), and a number of occasional sermons. — 
Sprague, Annals, i, 493. 

Forbes, John (of Corse), son of Patrick Forbes, 
w r as born Slav 2, 1593. After studying at Heidelberg 
and Sedan, he was appointed professor of divinity in 
King’s College, Aberdeen, in 1619. In the great strug- 
gle in Scotland between Presbyterianism and prelacy,, 
he favored Episcopacy, but sought to be a peacemaker, 
publishing Irenicum .1 matoribus 1 ’ eritatis et Pads in Ec - 
clesia Scotiana (Aberdeen, 1629). In 1638 he published 
A peaceable Warning to the Subjects in Scotland. Re- 
fusing to sign the Solemn League and Covenant, he was 


FORBES 


617 


FORD 


deprived of his benefice in 1G40. His ease was one 
of peculiar hardship, for he had made over part of his 
own private property to he attached to the professor- 
ship which he held, and he lost this property on being 
dismissed from his office. In 1G42 he went to Hol- 
land, married there, and remained three years. Re- 
turning to Scotland, he spent the remainder of his life 
on his estate at Corse, and died April 20, 1G48. His 
reputation chiefly rests upon his great work Instruc- 
tiones Historic o-Theologiece- de doctrina Christiana et va- 
rio rerum statu , ortisque errorihus et controversiis (Amst. 
1G45, fob ; Geneva, 1G80, fol. ; abridged by Arnold Mon- 
tanus (Amst. 1GG3, 8vo). His collected works were 
published under the title Joannis Forbesii h Corse Op- 
era Omnia , inter quce piurima posthuma , with Vita by 
Dr. Garden (Amst. 1702-3, 2 vols. fob). Ilis Instrue- 
tiones is still a valuable work ; its design was to show, 
in opposition to Bellarmine, the doctrinal agreement 
between the Reformers and the earlier fathers, and it 
formed a precursor of the modern works on the His- 
tory of Doctrines. Bishop Burnet (Preface to Life of 
Bedell') says that Forbes of Corse was a man“of much 
more extensive learning than his father (Patrick 
Forbes), in which, perhaps, he was excelled by none of 
that age. Those who shall read his book of Historical 
and Theological Institutions will not dispute this title 
with him ; for it is so excellent a work, that, if he had 
been left in quiet, in the retirement he had chosen, to 
apply himself to his studies, and could have finished it 
by a second volume, it would, perhaps, have been the 
most valuable treatise of divinity that has yet appear- 
ed in the world.” Baur names Forbes and Petavius 
as the- two great writers of the 17th century on His- 
tory of Doctrines.— Eneycl. Britannica , ix,77G; Nice- 
ron, Me moires pour sert'ir , etc., t. xlii ; Donaldson, His- 
tory of Christian Literature , i, GG. 

Forbes, Patrick, bishop of Aberdeen, was born 
of a noble family in Aberdeenshire in 15G4, and became 
“ laird of Corse” and baron of O’Neil, lie was edu- 
cated at Aberdeen and St. Andrew’s. “For a good 
space,” says bishop Keith, “he refused to enter into 
holy orders ; but at last, when he was forty-eight years 
old, viz. anno 1G12, he was prevailed upon — a very sin- 
gular accident having intervened, which made him 
then yield, namely, the earnest obtestation of a relig- 
ious minister in the neighborhood, who, in a fit of mel- 
ancholy, had stabbed himself, but survived to lament 
his error.” lie became pastor of Keith, in Morayshire, 
where he remained until 1018, when he was elected 
bishop of Aberdeen, on the recommendation of the 
king. He died March 28, 1G35. “lie was wont to 
visit his diocese in a very singular retinue, scarce any 
person hearing of him until he came into the church 
on the Lord’s day; and according as he perceived the 
respective ministers to behave themselves, he gave 
his instructions to them.” lie wrote Comment aH a in 
A pocalypsin, cum Appendice (Amst. 1G4G, 4to) ; trans- 
lated, An exquisite Commentary on the Revelation (Lon- 
don, 1G13, 4to); a treatise entitled Exercitationes de 
Verbo Dei ; and a Dissertatio de Version? bus vernacidis. 
He was a great benefactor to Aberdeen University, of 
which he was chancellor, and he revived the professor- 
ships of law, physic, and divinity. — Keith, Historical 
Catal. of Scottish Bishops (Kdinb. 1824, Svo); Burnet, 
History of our own Times ; Hook, Eccl. Biog. v, 157. 

Forbes, William, bishop of Edinburgh, was horn 
at Aberdeen, 1585, and was educated at Marisehal Col- 
lege. About the age of twenty he went abroad and 
studied at the German universities, especially Helm- 
stiidt and Heidelberg, lie returned after five years, 
and was offered the chair of Hebrew at Oxford ; but he 
declined it, and became minister fir^t at Alford, next at 
Monimusk, and afterwards at Aberdeen. About 1G17 
he was chosen principal of Marisehal College in that 
city, and about 1010 he accepted a pastorate in Edin- 
burgh. When Charles I was in Scotland in 1G33 he 


heard Forbes preach, and said that he had found a man 
who deserved to have a see erected for him. Ilis pa- 
tent from the king, to be the first bishop of Edinburgh, 
hears date the 26th of January, 1G34, and he died April 
1 in the same year. He wrote Considerationes modestce 
et pacifcce controversiurum de justifeatione, pur gator io, 
invocatione sanctorum, which was published posthu- 
mously (Lond. 1G58, Svo ; reprinted, with an English 
version, in the Library of Anglo-Catholic Theology, Ox- 
ford, 1S50-5G, 2 vols. 8vo).‘ This work is a storehouse 
of learning on the subject, but does not maintain the 
Protestant doctrine of justification. It embodied a 
proposal for an accommodation between the Protestant 
Episcopal churches and the Church of Rome, the only 
result of which would have been to make episcopacy 
regarded with more suspicion in Scotland than it was. 
Some other polemical works of his which had raised 
high expectations were lost. Burnet, characterizing 
his eloquence, says that “lie preached with a zeal and 
vehemence that made him forget all the measures of 
time — two or three hours was no extraordinary thing 
for him” ( English Cyclnjxedia). — Hook, Eccles. Biog. v, 
158 ; Encyclopedia Britannica , ix, 777. 

Forcellini, Egipio, an Italian lexicographer, 
was born Aug. 2G, 1G88, at Fener, a village near Pa- 
dua. As his family was poor, it was only towards 
manhood that he was able to begin the regular course 
of study in the seminary at Padua. His industry and 
success in studying Latin gained the confidence of 
Facciolati (q. v.), who associated him with his labors, 
especially in preparing the Totius Latinitatis Lexicon , 
consilio et curaJac . Facciolati , opera et strnTo JEg, For- 
cellini Lucubratum (Padua, 1771). The excellence of 
this great work is largely attributed to Forcellini. He 
died April 4, 17G8. See Facciolati. 

Forces (spec. cha'yil , strength , especially in 

a military point of view; hence, also, army, fortifica- 
tion, ete.), in one phrase, “forces of the Gentiles” (Isa. 
lx, 5, 11), seems to he used in its widest sense (see Al- 
exander, ad loc.) to denote (as the context implies) not 
only the subjugation of the heathen, but also the con- 
secration of their wealth (Gen. xxxiv, 29, where the 
same Ileb. word occurs). The or god 

of strongholds, of Dan. xi, 38, is probably Mars, or 
rather Jupiter (Olympius or Capitol inus), whom An- 
tiochus (q. v.) specially honored. See Daniel. 

Ford (“-V.'r, maabar' , and mabarah a 

pass), a shallow place in a stream where it may easily 
be crossed on foot or by wading (Gen. xxxii, 23 ; Josh, 
ii, 2; Jtidg. iii, 28; xii, 5, 6; Isa. xvi, 2). See Riv- 
er. The Heb. word is also used both in the singular 
and in the plural with reference to the mountain pass 
at Michmash, between Seneh and Bozez (1 Sam. xiv, 
4, and Isa. x, 29). Mention is repeatedly made of the 
fords of Jordan (Josh, ii, 7 ; Judg. iii, 28 ; xii, 5, G; A. 
V. “passages”). These were evidently in ancient 
times few in number, and well known, though now 
the Jordan is fordable in hundreds of places (Smith's 
Diet, of Classical Gcngr. s. v. Paliestina, p. 521). See 
Jordan. Of these, that named Bethabara (q. v.) 
was probably the most noted. Mention is also made 
of the ford of the Jabbok (Gen. xxxii, 22), and the 
fords of Arnon (Isa. xvi, 2). See Arnon. The fords 
of the Euphrates (Jer. Ii, 32) were probably the bridges 
across that river built by Nitoeris, as the Euphrates 
was not fordable at Babylon (llitzig, Exegct. Ileb. ad 
loc.). — Kitto, s. v. See Euphrates. 

Ford, Joshua Edwards, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Ogdensbnrgh Ang. 3, 1825, graduated at 
Williams College in 1844, and studied theology at 
Union Theological Seminary, New York. In 1847 he 
entered the missionary work in Sj’ria, under the au- 
spices of the American Board. Ilis first station was 
Aleppo. He was afterwards transferred to Beirut, and 
subsequently to Sidon. Invited by the Turkish Mis- 
sions Aid Society, he spent some months in England 


FORDYCE 


G18 


FOREIGNER 


in 18G1, advocating the claims of the Syrian Mission. 
In 1865 lie returned to America on account of illness 
in his family, and labored earnestly in behalf of his 
mission ; but his exertions enfeebled him, and he died 
of pneumonia at Gcneseo, N. Y., April 3, 1866. "While 
in the Eist he obtained a thorough knowledge of Ara- 
bic, and could nse it in preaching. lie rendered use- 
ful service in editing Arabic books for the press, and 
wrote a book in that language on “ Fasting and Pray - 
er.” lie also used the Turkish language. — Wilson, 
Presbyterian Historical Almanac, 1867, p. 280. 

Fordyce, David, brother of James, was born in 
1711 at Aberdeen. In 1742 he was appointed professor 
of moral philosophy in Marischal College. He per- 
ished by shipwreck in 1751. lie wrote Dialogues con- 
cern'ny Education: — Theodonts , a Dialogue on the Art 
■ of Preaching (bond. 1755, 3d ed. 12mo) : — Elements of 
Moral Philosophy (bond. 1760, 4th ed. l2mo). 

Fordyce, J ames, D.D., a Scotch divine, was born 
in 1720 at Aberdeen, was educated at Marischal Col- 
lege, and was successively minister at Brechin and 
Alloa, in Scotland, ami at Monkwell Street, London. 
In 1782 he relinquished the pastoral office, and retired 
first to Hampshire and afterwards to Bath, where lie 
died, Oet. 1, 1706. lie wrote Sermons to Young Women 
(London, Otli ed. 1778, 2 vols. 12mo): — Addresses to 
Young Men (bond. 1777, 2 vols. 12mo): — Addresses to 
the Deify (London, 1785, sm. 8vo); and several single 
sermons, which were very popular. — Jones, Christian 
Biography , s. v. 

Forehead (ni£*p, me'tsach , from an obsolete root 
signif. to shine , Gesenius, Thes. Heb. p. 815; pireo-u or). 
The practice of veiling the face in public for women 
of the higher classes, especially married women, in the 
East, sufficiently stigmatizes with reproach the un- 
veiled face of women of bad character (Gen. xxv, G5; 
Jer. iii, 3; Niebuhr, Trav. i, 132, 149, 150; Shaw, Trav- 
els, p. 228, 240; Ilasselquist, Travels , p. 58; Bucking- 
ham, . 1 rah Tribes, p. 312 ; bane, Mod . Eg. i, 72, 77, 225- 
248; Pmrekliardt, Travels, i, 233). An especial force 
is thus given to the term “hard of forehead” as de- 
scriptive of audacity in general (Ezek. iii, 7, 8, 9 ; 
compare Juvenal, Sat. xiv, 242 — “ Eject um attrita de 
fronte ruborem”). See Veil. 

The custom among many Oriental nations both of 
adoring the face and forehead, and of impressing on 



the body marks indicative of devotion to some special 
deity or religious sect is mentioned by various writers 
(Burckhardt, Notes on Bed. i, 51 ; Niebuhr, Trav. ii, 57 ; 
Wilkinson, Anc. Eg. ii, 312; Lane, Moder)i Eg. i, GO). 
Sometimes it extends to serious inflictions. See Cut- 
tings in THE Flesh. It is doubtless alluded to in 


Rev. (xiii, 16, 17 ; xiv, 9; xvii, 5; xx, 4), and in the 
opposite direction by Ezekiel (ix, 4, 5, C), and in Rev. 
(vii, 3; ix, I ; xiv, 1 ; xxii, 4). The mark mentioned 
b} r Ezekiel with approval has been supposed by some 
to be the figure of the cross, said to be denoted by the 
word here used, "H, in the ancient Shemitic language 
(Gesenius, Thes. p. 1495 ; Spencer, De Leg. Hebr . ii, 20 ; 

iii, 409, 413). Sec Mark (on the Person). 

It may have been by way of contradiction to hea- 
then practice that the high-priest wore on the front of 
his mitre the golden plate inscribed “ Holiness to the 
Lord” (Exod. xxviii, 36; xxxix, 30; Spencer, l. c\). 
See Mitre. 

The “jewels for the forehead” mentioned by Eze- 
kiel (xvi, 12), and in the margin of the A. Y., Gen. 
xxiv, 22, were in all probability nose-rings (Isa. iii, 
21; bane, Mod. Egypt, iii, 225, 226; Harmor, Observ. 

iv, 311, 312; Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 870). The Persian 
and also Egyptian women wear jewels and strings 
of coins across their foreheads (Glearius, Travels , p. 
317 ; Lane, Mod. Eg. ii, 228). — Smith, s. v. See Nose- 
jewel. 

For the use of frontlets between the eyes, see Front- 
let, and for the' symptoms of leprosy apparent in the 
forehead, Leprosy. For baldness in the forehead, see 
Bald. 

Foreigner (“’“'tJj nokri f , Dent, xv, 3; Obadiah 

11, a stranger, as elsewhere rendered; — toshaV, 
Exod. xii, 45, a sojourner , as usually rendered ; irdpot- 
Kog, lit. a neighbor, Eph. ii, 19, elsewhere “stranger” or 
“sojourner”), a resident in a country not native to him, 
i. e. in the Jewish sense a Gentile. See Alien. Such 
non-Israelites (E^jS, Josephus dAAorpioywpoi, Ant. iii, 

12, 3) as resided among the Hebrews were by the Mo- 
saic law not only commended in general to the sympa- 
thy and humanity of the citizens (Exod. xxii, 21; xxiii, 
9 ; Lev. xix, 33, 34 ; Dent, x, 18 sq. ; comp. Jer. vii, 6 ; 
Ezek. xxii, 7; Zeeh. vii, 10; Mai. iii, 5; see Josephus, 
Apion, ii, 28), but were also entitled to certain privi- 
leges belonging to the poor, namely, to participation 
in the festivals and decennial feasts (Dent, xiv, 28 sq. ; 
xvi, 10 sq. ; xxvi, 11 sq. ; Tobit i, 7), to gleanings in 
the vineyards and fields (Lev. xix, 10; xxiii, 22; 
Dent, xxiv, 19 sq.), and to the harvest in the year of 
jubilee (Lev. xxv, G); prescriptions which found a 
definite point of support in Oriental hospitality. Be- 
fore the courts they had equal rights with the native- 
born residents (Exod. xii, 49; Lev. xxiv, 22; Numb, 
xv, 15 sq. ; Deut. i, 1G; xxiv, 17 ; xxvii, 19', and the 
cities of refuge were appointed for them likewise in 
case of unintentional homicide (Numb, xxxv, 15). 
On tlie other hand, they also were not allowed to per- 
form anything which was an abomination according 
to the Hebrew law (Exod. xx, 10 ; Lev. xvii. 10 ; xviii, 
2G; xx, 2; xxiv, 16; Deut. v, 14; Ezek. xiv, 7); yet 
they were exempted from the prohibition of using the 
flesh of animals that died of themselves (Deut. xiv, 
21 ; but there are also other distinctions between this 
passage and Lev. xvii, 15. See Carcase). Foreign 
slaves must be circumcised, but were then entitled to 
eat the passover (Gen. xvii, 12 sq. ; Exod. xii, 44). It 
was lawful to take interest from foreigners for loaned 
capital (Deut. xxiii, 20). See Debt. Under certain 
restrictions, when they submitted to circumcision, they 
became naturalized, and received the prerogatives of 
Jewish citizenship; Edomites and Egyptians in the 
third generation (Deut. xxiii, 7 sq. ; comp. Theodoret, 
Quasi, in Deut. 26), others after a longer time. Only 
Ammonites, Moabites, castrated persons, and the off- 
spring of public harlots were altogether excluded from 
this privilege (Deut. xxiii, 1 sq. ; comp. Neh. xiii, 1). 
Foreigners accordingly appear in the royal service (1 
Sam. xxi, 7 ; xxii, 9; 2 Sam. xi, 3, 6, etc.). Sec Gjt- 
tite. Later fanaticism, however, sought to expel all 
foreigners from the country (Neh. xiii, 3; on the con- 
trary, Ezek. xlvii, 22), or impose the hard condition 


FOIIEIRO 


619 


FORESKINS 


of circumcision (Josephus, Life, 23). See generally I 
Miclmelis, Mas. Recht , ii, 443 sq. ; Jalm, 1, ii, 34G sq. 
The legal treatment of foreigners was in the earlier 
ages the more humane, as originally at Koine (Adam, 
Rom. Ant . i, 145) and at Athens. See Proselyte. 1 

Foreiro, Francis (Forcrius Franciscus), a Portu- 
guese Dominican monk, was born at Lisbon in 1523, 
and, entering early into the Dominican order, was sent 
by John ill to study theology in the University of 
Paris. On his return to Lisbon he was charged with 
the education of the young prince Antonio, and was 
appointed preacher to the king. Among the Portu- 
guese at the Council of Trent he held the first place, 
lie offered to preach before the council in any lan- 
guage. The council sent him on a mission to Pius 
IV, who made Foreiro confessor to his nephew, cardi- 
nal Charles Borromeo. lie was employed to reform 
the Breviary and the Roman Missal, and to aid in the 
preparation of the “ Catechism of the Council of Trent.” 
On his return to Portugal lie was chosen prior of the 
Dominican convent at Lisbon in 1568. He died Janu- 
ary 10, 15S7. His principal work is have Prophetess 
veins ct nova ex llebraico Versio, cum Comment (trio, etc. 
(Venice, 1503, fob), inserted in the fifth volume of the 
Critici Sacri. — Echard et Qtietit', Script. Ord. Freed, ii, 
201 ; Hook, Fcclcs. Biogr. v, 101 ; Iloefcr, Nouv. Bicgr. 
Generate , xviii. 170. 

Foreknowledge. See Prescience. 
Fore-Ordination. Sec Predestination. 

Forer, Laurent, a Jesuit, born in Switzerland, 
1580, was professor of philosophy in many colleges of 
his order; then chancellor of the University of Dillin- 
gen, and finally rector of the Jesuits’ College at Lu- 
cerne. lie died in 1659, leaving 44 works, a list of 
which may lie found in Sotwell, Bibliographic. de la So- 
ciete de Jesus. Among them is Sgmbohtm Catholicum . 
Luther anum, Culcinianum cum Aposfolico collation (Dil- 
lingen, 1022, 4to). — Mignc, Diet. de Bhg.Chretieune , s. v. 

Forerunner is the literal meaning of 7 rpotpopoc 
(Ilcb. vi, 20), a precursor , one who not only goes be- 
fore to a particular place, to lead or prepare the way, 
but who makes arrangements for those that follow. 
In this sense it is usually applied to John the IL.ptbt, 
as the harbinger of Christ. But in the above text (the 
only' one where it occurs in Scripture) it is spoken of 
Jesus, the high-priest of the new dispensation, as en- 
tering before his followers into the heavenly sanctu- 
ary, and making expiation of perpetual efficacy for sin- 
ners (comp. John xiv, 2). 

Foreship (7 rpibpa, the prow, Acts xxvii, SO, 41), 
the bow or stem of a vessel. See Ship. 

Foreskin (ilb-C* orlaV, a native term for this 
special rite ; Greek aKpofivirria ; both used in their lit- 
eral and metaphorical meaning), the prepuce or pro- 
jecting fold of skin in the distinctive member of the 
male sex, which was removed in circumcision, so as to 
leave the glans penis artificially uncovered. This well- 
known symbolical rite was instituted by Jehovah for 
the consecration of all the male Israelites — originally 
descendants of Abraham (and in that case on the 
eighth day after birth, Gen. xxi, 4 ; Lev. xii, 3 ; Luke 
i, 59 ; ii, 21 ; see Philo, iii, 5 ; Josephus, Ant. i, 12, 2 ; 
yet compare Exod. iv, 25, with ii, 12, and the Misbna, 
Shabh. xix, 5, where in certain eases the ceremony is 
deferred till the ninth or twelfth day: the Sabbath, 
however, did not cause a postponement, John vii, 22 
sq. ; compare Wetstein, i, 887 ; but delicate children 
might he circumcised after weaning, Mishna, l. c.), and 
in later times “ Proselytes of Righteousness” (Exod. 
xii, 48 ; comp. Judith xiv, 10 ; see Tacit. Hist, v, 5, 3), 
as a ratification of their title to the theocratic citizen- 
ship. (Whether circumcision among the Egyptians 
stood in connection with Phallus worship [Tuch, Gen. 
p. 34-1] is not determined, but its use among the Israel- 
ites is rather against such a supposition. Baur [Tub. 


Zeitschr. 1832, i, 104 sq.] refers it to the idea of separa- 
tion from heathendom, which is consistent with the en- 
tire system of Mosaism [comp, the Mishna, Nedar. iii, 
11].) House-born (heathen) slaves were also to un- 
dergo the operation (Gen. xvii, 12), as a sign of par- 
ticipation in the covenant with Jehovah. (But chil- 
dren born of a heathen father and an Israelitish mother 
must not be circumcised, according to Yebam. lv, 2; 
yet comp. Acts xvi, 3.) Every Israelite (Joseph. Ant. 
xii, 5, 4), generally the father of the house (Gen. xvii, 
23 ; but, in cases of exigency, also women ; sec Bux- 
torf, Synagog. duel. p. 90 ; comp. Exod. iv, 25 : not hea- 
thens, however ; yet see A boda Sara. ed. Edzard, ii, 40 
sq. In adults a physician was required, Joseph. A nt. 
xx, 2, 5. I 11 case two sons by the same mother died 

of the operation, the [later] rabbins allowed the cir- 
cumcision of the third son to be delayed till he was 
full grown ; Maimonidcs, Ilil. Milah, i, 1«X), should per- 
form the rite, and they employed for the purpose a 
sharp knife (Quanat, De cultris circumcisoi iis ct scccs- 
pitis Uebr. Begiom. 1714; also in Ugolini Thesaurus, 
xxii), earlier an edged stone or stone knife (Exod. iv, 
25; Josh, v, 2 sq. ; comp. Herod, ii, 80; sec Duugtrci 
Analect. i, 59 ; Abielit, De cultris saxcis , etc. Lips. 1712 ; 
also in Hasan Thesaur. i, 497 sq. ; and Gcdafi Biss, de 
instru mentis circwncis. Lips. 1G98 ; also in the Xov. the- 
saurus philol. i, 203 sq. ; and in Ugolino, xxii), as the 
Galli or priests of Cybclc castrated themselves with a 
shell (“Sarnia testa,” Plinv, xxxv, 4G; comp. C’atulL 
Ixiii, 5 ; Martial, iii, 8 ; see Arnobius, adv. Gent, v, 1G), 
under the idea that healing was thereby promoted. 
The Christians of Abyssinia also performed the opera- 
tion with stone knives (Ludolf, Hist. JEtliop. iii, 1, 21). 
Modern Jews use for this purpose steel knives, and the 
operation is thus described by Otho (Ter. Ralb. p. 133) : 
“The circumcizcr applies a rod to the organ, and 
draws the prepuce forward over it as far as possible ; 
then with a forceps he seizes a part of it and cuts it 
off vith a razor. He next seizes the prepuce with his 
two thumbs, and rolls it back till the whole glans is 
exposed, after which l:e sucks out the blood (Mishna, 
Shabb. xix, 2) till the blood comes from the remoter 
parts of the body, and finally he applies a plaster to 
the wound.” (Comp. Tlievcnot, Trav. i, 58; Chclius, 
JIandb. d. Chinny. 11, i, 50; Wolfers, in Ilcnke, Zeit- 
schr. f. Staatsarzmil'. 1825, i, 205 sq. ; also in the En- 
ctjcl. I Vorterb. d. medic. Wissensch. v, 25G sq.) On Arab 
circumcision, see Arvicux, iii, 140. That so severe 
and painful an operation (comp. Targ. Jonath. on Gen. 
xxii, 1) could not well be performed on an infant less 
than eight days old is evident. The practice of fe- 
male circumcision, or excision, referred to by several 
ancient and modern writers, as practiced by certain na- 
tions, may have consisted in removing the anterior 
flap of skin vdiich in some actual specimens of Hotten- 
tots or Bushwoinen has been found to cover the female 
genitals, apparently wholly distinct from the vaginal 
membrane (sec the Fenny Cyclopaedia, s. v. Circumcis- 
ion). As circumcision was a symbol of purification, 
the prepuce was a type of corruption ; hence the phrase 
“foreskin of the heart” (I)eut. x, 1G; Jer. iv, 10), to 
designate a carnal or heathenish state (Rom. ii, 29; 
compare Philo, ii, 258). Sec Uncircumcision. The 
part removed by circumcision thus naturally became 
one of the harshest terms of opprobrium (1 Sain, xvii, 
20, 26; comp. Ludolf, Comment, in Hist. Alth. p. 274), 
like verpus among the Romans (Martial, vii, 82, 0). It 
was sometimes brought as a trophy of slain Gentiles 
(1 Sam. xviii, 25; 2 Sam. iii, 14), like scalps by the 
North American savages. Paul, on the other hand, 
uses the ironical term “concision” (Phil, iii, 2) to stig- 
matize the extreme attachment of a Judaizing party 
to this ordinance. — Winer, 15G. See Circumcision. 

FORESKINS, Hill of, a place near Gilgal, so call- 
ed from the circumcision of the Israelites at that spot 
before entering Canaan (Josh, v, 3). See Gibeau- 
, Ha-araloth. 


FOREST 


C20 


FOREST 


Forest is the rendering in the Auth. Vers, of three 
distinct lleb. words. See Topographical Terms. 

1. Usually and most properly "3.*^, ya'ar , or Hi 
tjna'rah (once rendered “wood,” Deut. xix, 5), signi- 
fying a dense woods from its redundancy or luxuriance , 
such as is seen in the growth of forest-trees, and in 
us;} restricted (with the exception of 1 Sam. xiv, 2G, 
and Cant, v, 1, in which it refers to honey) to an abun- 
dance of trees. It is the name given to all the great 
primeval forests of Syria, where the stately trees grew 
(Eccles. ii, G; Isa. xliv, 14), and where the wild beasts 
had their homes (Jer. v, G ; Mie. v, 8). Ilosea (ii, 12) 
appears to use it as equivalent to the Arabic ya'ur, a 
rugged and desolate place, like midbar or “ wilderness.” 
See Wood. 

2. £"h, cho'resh , is appparently derived from a Chal- 
dee root, u3^n, fo be entangled , and would therefore 

‘signify a thicket of trees or bushes, such as might af- 
ford a safe hiding-place (comp. 1 Sam. xxiii, 15), and 
such as is now T often seen in Palestine on the sites of 
ruined cities (comp. Isa. xvii, 9). It applies to woods 
of less extent, the word itself, according to others, in- 
volving the idea of wdiat is cut down (from 
Gesen. Thes. p. 530) : it is only twice (1 Sam. xxiii, 
15 sq. ; 2 Chron. xxvii, 4) applied to woods properly 
so called ; its sense, however, is illustrated in the oth- 
er passages in which it occurs, viz. Isa. xvii, 9 (A. V. 
“bough”), where the comparison is to the solitary relic 
of an ancient forest, and Ezek. xxxi, 3, where it ap- 
plies to trees or foliage suflicient to afford shelter 
(Vulg .fromlibus nemorosus ; A. V. “with a shadowing 
shroud”). The term occurs seven times in Scrip- 
ture, but is only once rendered forest — “ In theybreste 
(Sept. tv toIq cpvftoTc) he built castles and towers” (2 
Chron. xxvii, 4). The locality here referred to ap- 
pears to be the south of Judah, where the mountains 
were formerly, and are in places still, clothed with 
dwarf oaks and tangled shrubberies. See Thicket. 

3. Cl" 3, junrlts', a word of foreign origin, like the 
Greek Trapca tinog and the Arabic parelasun, q. d .park, 
means an enclosed garden or jdantution attached to a 
palace, intended either for ornament or for containing 
animals of the chase (Eccles. ii, 5; Cant. iv. 13; comp. 
Xenophon, Cyrop. i, 3, 12). It is found only three times 
in the Bible, and is once translated forest. In Neh. ii, 
8, Asaph is called “the keeper of the king’s forest” 
(Sept, rov TTCtpactlaov), where it appropriately express- 
es the care with which the forests of Palestine were 
preserved under the Persian rule, a regular warden 
being appointed, without whose sanction no tree could 
be felled. Elsewhere the word describes an orchard 
(Eccles. ii, 5; Cant, iv, 13). See Orchard. 

Although Palestine has never, in historical times, 
been a woodland country, yet there can be no doubt 
that it contained much more wood formerly than it 
has at present. Tracts of woodland are mentioned bv 
travellers in Palestine, but rarely what we should call 
a forest. There are still some remnants of ancient 
oak forests on the mountains of Bashan, Gilead, Her- 
mon, and Galilee. One solitary grove of cedars exists 
on Lebanon, but fir-trees are there abundant. The 
other forests of Palestine (2 Kings ii, 23; 1 Sam. xiv, 
25; vii, 2, etc.) have almost disappeared. Yet here 
and there, in every district of the country, north and 
south, cast and west, one meets with a solitary oak or 
terebinth of huge dimensions, as at Hebron, and the 
valley of Elah, and Shiloh, and Dan. These are the 
last trees of the forests, and serve to indicate what the 
forests of Palestine once were, lienee it is probable 
that the highlands were once covered with a primeval 
forest, of which the celebrated oaks and terebinths (e. 
g. those of Abraham, Tabor, etc.) scattered here and 
there were the relics. The woods and fo tests men- 
tioned in the Bible appear to have been situated where 
they are usually found in cultivated countries, in the | 


valleys and defiles that lead down from the high to 
the low lands, and in the adjacent plains. The}’- were 
therefore of no great size, and correspond rather with 
the idea of the Latin saltus than with our ybresL The 
following are those that occur in Scripture. See Tree. 

(1.) The most extensive was the f orest ( yaar , 
“wood”) of Ephraim , implying a region of Ephraim 
covered with forests where Mount Jearim (Hill of For- 
ests) was situated (Josh, xv, 10); or in allusion" to the 
name of the city Kirjath-jearim (1 Sam. vii, 1, 2). It 
clothed the slopes of the hills that bordered the plain, 
of Jezreel, and the plain itself in the neighborhood of 
Beth shan (Josh, xvii, 15 sq.), extending, perhaps, at 
one time to Tabor, which is translated epugog by Thc- 
odotion (Hos. v, 1), and which is still well covered 
with forest-trees (Stanley, p. 350). It is, perhaps, the 
same with the wood of Ephratah (Psa. cxxxii, G). See 
ErilRATAlI. 

(2.) There was a t rans- Jordan ic forest (yaar, “ wood”) 
of Ephraim (2 Sam. xviii, G; Sept, cpvpog). It was 
here that the army of Absalom was defeated, and he 
himself slain. It lay near, probably a little to the west 
of, the town of Mahanaim, where David had his head- 
quarters, and where he received the first tidings of the 
fate of his son (xvii, 2G; xviii, 24). Why a forest 
cast of the Jordan should bear the name Ephraim can- 
not now be determined ; but one thing is certain — in 
the noble oaks which still clothe the hills of Gilead 
north of the Jabbok we see the remnants of “the 
wood of Ephraim,” and the representative of that 
“great oak” in one of whose branches Absalom was 
strangely imprisoned (xviii, 9; see Porter’s Handbook 
for Syria and Palestine , p. 311, 314). Winer places it 
on the west side of the Jordan ; but a comparison of 2 
Sam. xvii, 26 ; xviii, 3, 23, proves the reverse. The 
statement in xviii, 23, in particular, marks its position 
as on the highlands, at some little distance from the 
valley of the Jordan (comp. Joseph. Ant. vii, 10, 1, 2). 
See Eriiraim, Wood of. 

(3.) The forest (yaar, Sept. 7 ro\ir, A. V. “forest”) 
of Harcth, in the mountains of Judah, to which David 
withdrew to avoid the fury of Saul (1 Sam. xxii, 5), 
was somewhere on the border of the Philistine plain, 
in the southern part of Judah. See IIaretii. 

(4.) The wood (choresh, Sept, opor, A.V. “wood”) 
in the wilderness of Ziph, in which David concealed 
himself (1 Sam. xxiii, 15 sq,), lay south-east of He- 
bron. See Xipii. 

(5.) Th o. forest (yaar, Sept-. Fpvpvg, A.V. “wood”) 
of Bethel (2 Kings ii, 23, 24) was situated in the ravine 
which descends to the plain of Jericho. Sec Bethel. 

(G.) The forest (yaar, Fpvpoc, “ wood”) through 
which the Israelites passed in their pursuit of the Phi- 
listines (1 Sam. xiv, 25) was probably near Aijalou 
(compare v, 31), in one of the valleys leading down to 
the plain of Philistia. See Saul. 

(7.) The woods (choresh, cpvpoc, “forest”) in which 
Jotham placed his forts (2 Chron. xxvii, 4) must have 
been similarly situated. See Jotham. 

(8.) The plain of Sharon was partly covered with 
wood (Strab. xvii, 758), whence the Sept, gives ? pu- 
pal as an equivalent for that name in Isa. lxv, 10. It 
has still a fair amount of wood (Stanley, p. 2G0). See 
Sharon. 

(9.) The excellency or pride of the Jordan , so called 
from its green and shady banks, clothed w ith willow's, 
tamarisks, and cane, in which lions made their covert 
(Zech. xi, 3; Jer. xii, 5). See Jordan. 

(10.) The forest (yaar) of cedars on jl fount Lebanon 
(2 Kings xix, 23; Hos. xiv, 5, G), which must have 
been much more extensive formerly than at present; 
although, on the assumption that the “cedar” of Scrip- 
ture is the Pinus cedrus, or so-called “ cedar of Leba- 
non,” its growth is l>v no means confined, among those 
mountains, to the famous clump of ancient trees w'hich 
has alone engaged the attention of travellers. See 
Cedar. The American missionaries and others, trav- 


FORK 


621 


FORGIVENESS 


elling by unfrequented routes, have found woods of 
less ancient cedar-trees in other places. See Leba- 
non, 1. 

“The house of the forest (yciar ) of Lebanon” is sev- 
eral times mentioned. It appears to have been a part 
of the royal palace built by Solomon at Jerusalem, 
and used as an armory (1 Kings vii, 2 sq. ; x, 17-21 ; 
2 Chron. ix, 16-20). The house had “ four rows of 
cedar pillars, with cedar beams upon the pillars, and 
it was covered with cedar above upon the beams.” 
Hence, in all probability, its name (see Keil,ad loc.). 
See Solomon. 

“The forest ( yaar , vpvpug) of Carmel ’ is a phrase 
used in 2 Kings xix, 23, and Isa. xxxvii, 21, in refer- 
ence to the ravages committed by the army of Sen- 
nacherib on the land of Israel. The meaning of the 
clause, ib -*13 *3? (“forest of his Carmel”), seems 
to be its garden forest ; that is, the garden-like cedar 
forests of Lebanon, to which reference is made (see 
Keil on Kings, and Alexander on Isaiah, ad loc.). 

(11.) i1,r £\ie forest ( [guar ) in Arabia” occurs in Isa. 
xxi, 13. The phrase is remarkable, because Arabia is 
a country singularly destitute of trees. In no part of 
it are there any traces of forests. (The Sept, trans- 
lates the passage tv rp vpogdj ioTripag ; and Lowth 
and others adopt it; but the Masorctic reading is pref- 
erable.) The meaning of the word *13? in this place 
is probably the same as that of the Arabic yaur, a rug- 
ged region , whether wooded or not. Sec Arabia. 

(12.) In Zech. xi, 2 there is a singular expression: 
“ Howl, 0 ye oaks of Bashan, for the forest of the vin- 
tage is come down.” The Hebrew *P "i3? (Sept. 
6 Ipugbg u avpfyvTog) rather signifies “the fortified 
forest” (Yulg. saltus munitus ), and it is probable that 
Jerusalem is thus figuratively alluded to, the houses 
of which are close together as tfie trees of a forest 
(compare Micah, iii, 12; see Henderson, On the Minor 
Prophets, ad loc.). It may, however, refer to the de- 
vastation of that region, for the greater portion of Pe- 
rasa was, and still is, covered with forests of oak and 
terebinth (Isa. ii, 13; Ezck. xxvii,6; comp. Bucking- 
ham’s Palestine , p. 103 sq., 240 sq. ; Stanley, p. 324). 
See Basiian. 

Forest is used symbolically to denote a city, king- 
dom, polity, or the like (Ezek. xiv, 26). Devoted king- 
doms are also represented under the image of a forest, 
which God threatens to burn or cut down. (See Isa. 
x, 17, 18, 19, 34, where the briers and thorns denote the 
common people; “the glory of the forest” are the no- 
bles and those of highest rank and importance. See 
also Isa. xxxii, 19 ; xxxvii, 24; Jer. xxi, 14 ; xxii, 7 ; 
xlvi, 23; Zech. xi, 2). It was also an image of un- 
fruitfulness as contrasted with a cultivated field or 
vineyard (Isa. xxix, 17; xxxii, 15; Jer. xxvi, 18; 
Hos. ii, 12). See Wemyss’s Claris Symbolica , s. v. — 
Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Palestine. 

Fork (“Y32p shelosh' killeshon', a triad of 

prongs), a three-pronged fork, i.e. pitch-fork with which 
hay, straw, and the like are gathered (occurs only 1 
Sam. xiii, 21). The Targum (on Eccles. xii, 11) uses 
the same word to express a pointed instrument. See 
Agriculture. 

The Orientals do not use forks at meals as we do, 
but convey the food to their mouth with the fingers. 
See Eating. 

Forgiveness, “the pardon of any offence com- 
mitted against us. We are not apt to entertain an}' 
permanent or incurable ill will against the author of 
injuries to others, and why should we be irreconcilable 
when injuries have been done to ourselves? To love 
our enemies, or rather not to hate our enemies, is a 
duty which no guilt can annul, no injury efface. We 
are not required to love our enemies as our friends; 
but, when any injury has been done us, we are to en- 
deavor to regard it with so much resentment as any 


just and impartial person would feel on hearing it re- 
lated, and no more. To revenge injuries is to retali- 
ate evil for the sake of retaliation. We are all weak, 
frail, and sinful creatures. None of us passes through 
one day without feeling that he requires forgiveness 
from his God, and too often also from his fellow-crea- 
tures. Mercy is all our hope, forgiveness our con- 
stant prayer. In such a state, should we not pity and 
assist each other ? Does not mutual weakness call for 
mutual forbearance? Weak, frail, and sinful as we 
are, we all hope, through the merits of Christ, to attain 
; the happiness of heaven ; and can creatures who, after 
a few short years, expect to be forever united in the 
I presence of God, to be liberated from all unruly pas- 
j sions, and to live together forever in heaven, in peace, 
j and joy, and everlasting love — can such creatures hate 
I each other on earth ? can they add to the sorrows of 
this .state of trial, and spread more thorns in the path 
of life by acts of malice and revenge? can they risk 
I their own eternal happiness by denying to each other 
that forgiveness without which they must not dare to 
hope that they shall be themselves forgiven ? We 
know', from the express declaration of our Saviour, that 
if we forgive not men their trespasses, neither will our 
heavenly Father forgive us. Christ estimated virtues 
by their solid utility, and not by their fashion or pop- 
ularity, and hence he prefers the duty of forgiveness 
to every other. He enjoins it more frequently, with 
more earnestness, and under a greater variety of forms ; 
and he adds this weighty and peculiar circumstance, 
that the forgiveness of others is the sole condition on 
which v'e are to expect or even ask from God forgive- 
ness for ourselves. This preference is justified by the 
superior importance of the virtue itself. The feuds 
and animosities which exist in families and among 
neighbors, -which disturb the intercourse of human life, 
and collectively compose half its misery, have their 
foundation in the want of a forgiving temper, and can 
never cease except by the exercise of this virtue. Let 
us endeavor to forgive, that we may not be afraid to 
ask forgiveness. Let us take care so to pray for for- 
giveness, that our prayers may not justify and increase 
our condemnation. Let us remember the amazing 
condescension of the Son of God, in ‘taking upon him 
the form of a servant,’ and thence learn humility. 
Let us represent to our minds the terms of our salva- 
tion, in order to excite us to repentance. Let us adore 
the infinite love of our Redeemer, ‘who laid down his 
life for his enemies,’ and let this be the pattern of our 
charity” (Fellowes, Body of Theology, ii, 210-213; Pa- 
ley, Moral and Polit. Philosophy, i, 269; Warner, Sys- 
tem of Divinity and Morality, ii, 356). — Robinson, Theo- 
logical Dictionary , s. v. ; American Presbyterian Review, 
Oct. 1867, art. ii. 

“ Some confound things that are separate and dif- 
ferent — the act of forgiving with the act of loving 
with approbation. Repentance and confession are in- 
dispensable, when one has intentionally injured us in 
any way, to restore him to our fellowship and appro- 
bation. But what is a necessary condition of this is 
not a necessary condition of forgiving. Blending these 
two things together, and thinking of them as if they 
were one and inseparable, has doubtless caused some 
to differ in opinion from others who clearly discern the 
proper distinctions. It is a mistaken idea that in the 
matter of forgiveness we are strictly to imitate God 
the Father, and not forgive those who trespass against 
us until they repent and ask our pardon. God is 
clothed with the responsibilities of moral government 
over his creatures, while we are not. If he had made 
it our duty to revenge our own wrongs, and administer 
just punishment to the doers of the wrong, then it 
would be right and wise to follow his example in that 
particular. But the case is far otherwise. The Lord 
not only relieves us of that responsibility, blit has com- 
manded us not to usurp his prerogatives: ‘Avenge 
not yourselves.’ No doubt there are certain cases in 


FORGIVENESS OF SIN 


022 


FORM 


civil and family governments in which the outward 
acts of forgiveness should be held in abeyance until 
forgiveness is duly sought. The offender in himself 
has no right to forgiveness until he seeks it in the true 
spirit of repentance. In the outward expressions of 
this, parents should often wait for the outward signs 
of penitence in their children. The same may be true 
sometimes in other relations, as between brothers and 
sisters, and other domestic and civil relations. Hence 
there is an objective and a subjective view to be taken of 
the duty of forgiveness — an act in the heart, and an 
appropriate outward and formal expression of it. The 
former should be performed at once, to prevent greater 
evil to ourselves, while the latter may wisely be de- 
layed until the proper occasion for it arrives. One 
may say he forgives, when in reality he does not for- 
give from the heart ; so we may forgive from the heart 
long before we proclaim it to the parties concerned” 
(, Zion's Herald, January 2, 18C7). 

FORGIVENESS OF SIN is that act of God’s free 
grace by which, in virtue of the merits of Christ’s 
atonement, appropriated by faith, he frees the sinner, 
who accepts Christ by such faith, from the guilt and 
penalty of his sins. “ By the atonement of Christ, 
which is God's own provision, his law is vindicated, 
and the penalty of sin is paid. To all who will be- 
lieve in Christ with the heart, God offers a free, full, 
and present forgiveness (Acts v, 31 ; xiii, 38, 33 ; 1 
John ii, 12). ‘ Being justified freely by his grace, 

through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,’ etc. 
(Rom. iii, 24, et seq.). By a careful consideration of 
this language, we see, 1. That every believer in Christ 
Jesus is justified or pardoned, for justification is called, 
in verse 25, ‘remission of sins.’ Yet it is not simply 
forgiveness: the terms justification «.nd justify, when 
applied to a guilty person, do not import his being 
morally just, but just with respect to law and the law- 
giver: that is, placed in the position of a person who 
has not broken the law, both in respect to exemption 
from punishment, and the favor and kindness of the 
judge. Justification is pardon administered consist- 
ently with the requirements of justice and law*. 2. 
That such believers are forgiven freely, as a fne gift, 
not of right , not meritoriously and of desert. It is to 
grace, and not to justice, that the appeal for pardon is 
made ; and we could ourselves have done nothing 
which could have legally cancelled our sins. The 
whole scheme is of grace, the result of the pure love 
of God, who compassionated our misery, himself pro- 
vided the means of our deliverance, by sending his 
only-begotten Son into the world, who voluntarily sub- 
mitted to die on the cross, that he might reconcile us 
to God. The whole v r as completed without our inter- 
vention, and the faith which is the condition of our 
salvation is by grace” (Farrar, Biblical Dictionary , s. 
v.). See Justification. 

The “forgiveness of sins” is one of the articles of 
the (so-called) Apostles’ Creed, as well as of the Ni- 
cene. According to the so-called sacramental theolo- 
gy (Acts ii, 88), “ forgiveness of sins’’ is conveyed to 
the penitent by tbc act of the priest pronouncing the 
absolution, making the priest the sole ordinary chan- 
nel through which remission is to be obtained. But 
sin against God can only be forgiven by God, on the 
condition he prescribes, of repentance, and of this no 
man can infallibly judge. See Pearson, On the Creed, 
art. ix; Eden, Churchmans Dictionary , s. v. See Ab- 
solution ; J USTl FIXATION. 

Form (Lat .forma, by transpos. from fiop<j)>i) is de- 
fined by Aristotle as Aoyot; ri)c nboiac, the doctrine of 
the substance or essence of a thing. “A trumpet may 
be said to consist of two parts, the matter or brass of 
which it is made, and the. form which the maker gives 
to it. The latter is essential, but not the former ; since, 
although the matter were silver, it would still be a 
trumpet, but without the form it w r ould not. Now r , 


although there can be no form without matter, yet as 
it is the form which makes the thing what it is, the 
word form came to signify essence or nature” (Flem- 
ing, s. v.). The Scholastics distinguished form .?«&- 
stantial from form accidental. Substantial form they 
defined as actus primarzus una cum materia const it uens 
unnm per se ; accidental form as actus secondarius con- 
stituting a unit per accidens. The unit of being com- 
posed of soul and body was defined to be of the for- 
mer sort. Form, according to the ancient definition, is 
therefore necessary to matter ; absolutely formless 
matter is inconceivable. Lord Bacon (Xov. Organ, ii, 
17, says: “When we speak of forms , we understand 
nothing more than the laws and inodes of action which 
regulate and constitute any simple nature, such as 
heat, light, weight, in all kinds of matter susceptible 
of them ; so that Xhcform of heat, or the form of light, 
and the law of heat, and the law of light, are the same 
thing.” Also (Xov. Organ, ii, 13), “The form of a thing 
is the very thing itself, and the thing no otherwise dif- 
fers from the form than as the apparent differs from 
the existent, the outward from the inward, or that 
which is considered in relation to man from that which 
is considered in relation to the universe.” 

“The sense attached at the present day to the words 
form and matter is somewhat different from, though 
closely related to, these. The form is what the mind 
impresses upon its perceptions of objects, which are 
the matter ; form therefore means mode of viewing ob- 
jects that are presented to the mind. When the at- 
tention is directed to any object, we do not see the ob- 
ject itself, but contemplate it in the light of our own. 
prior conceptions. A rich man, for example, is re- 
garded bv the poor and ignorant under the form of a 
very fortunate person, able to purchase luxuries which 
are above their own reach ; by the religious mind un- 
der the form of a person with more than ordinary 
temptations to contend with ; by the political econo- 
mist under that of an example of the unequal distri- 
bution of w r ealth ; by the tradesman under that of cue 
whose patronage is valuable. Now the object is re- 
| ally the same to all these observers ; the same rich 
man has been represented under all these different 
forms. And the reason that the observers are able to 
find many in one is that they connect him severally 
with their own prior conceptions. The form , then, in 
this view’, is mode, of knowing , and the matter is the 
perception or object we have to know” (Thomson, Out- 
: line of Laws of Thought , p. 3-1). Sir W. Hamilton calls 
the theory of substantial forms “ the theory of quali- 
ties viewed as entities conjoined with, and not as mere 
dispositions or modifications of matter” (Hamilton’s 
edition of Reid’s ) 1 r orks, p. 827). 

Dr. M‘Cosh remarks, on the distinction between 
form and matter, that “ this phraseology w'as intro- 
duced by Aristotle, who represented everything as 
having in itself both matter (v\rj) and form (filoc). 
It had a new' signification given to it by Kant, who 
supposes that the mind supplies from its ow'it furni- 
ture a form to impose on the matter presented from 
without. The form thus corresponds to the d priori 
element, and the matter to the a posteriori. But the 
view* thus given of the relation in which the knowing 
mind stands to the known object is altogether a mis- 
taken one. It supposes that the mind in cognition 
adds an element from its own resources, whereas it is 
simply so constituted as to know what is in the object. 
This doctrine needs only to be carried out consequen- 
tially to sap the foundations of all knowledge; for if 
the mind may contribute from its own stores one ele- 
ment, why not another? why not all the elements? 
In fact, Kant did, by this distinction, open the way to 
all those later speculations which represent the whole 
universe of being as an ideal construction. There 
can, I think, be no impropriety in speaking of the 
original principles of the mind as forms or rules, but 
they are forms merely, as are the rules of grammar, 


G23 


FORMS OF PRAYEF 


FORM OF CONCORD 

which do not add anything to correct speaking and 
writing, but are merely the expression of the laws 
which they follow. As to the word ‘matter,’ it has 
either no meaning in such an application, or a mean- 
ing of a misleading character” (. Intuitions of the Mind , 
N. Y. 1800, p. 008). Formal, in philosophy, is that, 
which relates to the form, as opposed to material, or 
that which relates to the matter. So formal logic 
gives the theory of reasoning as grounded in the laws 
of thought, without reference to the subject-matter to 
which reasoning may be applied. — Fleming, Vocabula- 
ry of Philosophy, s. v. ; Krug, Ilandwort. der philosoph. 
Wisssnschoj'Un , ii, 50. 

Form of Concord. Sec Concord, vol. ii, p. 453. 

Fcrmatae. See Liter.e Formats. 

Formosus I, Pope (891-890), was bishop of Porto, 
and was sent by Nicholas 1 in 8 GO as legate to Bulga- 
ria (q. v.), and would have been made archbishop 
there but that the canons (at that time) forbade trans- 
fers from one see to another. In the time of pope 
John VIII he was condemned on a charge of conspir- 
acy against Charles the Bald and the pope (Hefele, 
Conciliengescliichte , iv, 49G), A.D. S7G. lie was de- 
prived of his episcopacy, and of all l ights except lay 
communion. Pope Martin V restored him to his see 
in 883. Formosus was elected pope Sept. 21, 891, and 
was the first instance in the West of a bishop trans- 
ferred from one see to another. Soon after his elec- 
tion, legates sent by the emperor Leo and the Eastern 
bishops arrived in Pome to obtain a confirmation of 
the ordinations of Photius (q. v), but Formosus would 
uot grant the request, and the East and West were 
still farther alienated. In 893 he took sides political- 
ly with Charles the Simple against Odo. On the 
death of Guido, 894, Formosus invited Arnulf to Pome, 
and crowned him emperor, 895. Formosus died on 
Easter day, 89G. Pope Stephen VI caused the dead 
body of Formosus to be taken up and brought into a 
synod at Pome, condemned as guilty of intrusion into 
the holy see, and treated with gross indignitj'. Ste- 
phen declared all the acts of Formosus null and void, 
llis ‘‘character” was restored by pope John IX, A.D. 
898. — Bower, Lives of the Popes , v, 71-73; Baronins, 
Anrtales , A.D. 891-89G. 

Forms of Prayer are set prayers, prepared to be 
used in worship, public and private. As to the pro- 
priety and utility of such forms there has been much 
dispute. The arguments are about as follows. 

I. From Scripture. — (1.) On the one hand it is as- 
serted against the use of forms that ‘* there is not the 
slightest trace in all the New Testament of any estab- 
lished liturgical service of Christian worship. There 
are no forms of prayer prescribed for such worship — a 
thing which we. conceive must be inevitable if such 
liturgical form had been the best form, the most ac- 
cordant with the will of the Great Head over all things 
to the Church, and the most consonant with the mind 
of the Spirit, the most appropriate for the bestowment 
and exercise of his influences. In things of much less 
importance wc have explicit directions ; and it is hard- 
ly to be supposed, if a liturgy for public worship were 
most appropriate for the wants of men, and most 
agreeable to the will of God, that there should have 
been no directions, nor even intimations in regard to 
it. It is hardly to be supposed, when all things were 
set in order in the churches, that this main thing 
should have been neglected, or left at loose ends — so 
loose that not a single trace even of so much as a pre- 
scribed articular confession of faith or form of prayer 
can be found in the New Testament oracles” (Chec- 
ver). In the same spirit, Coleman ( Apostolical and 
Primitive Church , ch. xi) undertakes to prove, 1, that 
the use of forms of prayer is opposed to the spirit of 
the Christian dispensation ; 2, that it is opposed to the 
example of Christ and of his apostles; and, 3, that it 
is unauthorized by their instructions. (2.) On the ! 


other hand, in favor of forms, it is declared that “ the 
slightest acquaintance with Scripture is enough to 
convince cavillers that contrary to Scripture could not 
be that practice for which we can plead the precedent 
of Moses and Miriam, and the daughters of Israel, of 
Aaron and his sons when they blessed the people, of 
Deborah and Barak ; when the practice was even 
more directly sanctioned by the Holy Ghost at the 
time lie inspired David and the Psalmists; for what 
arc the Psalms but an inspired form of prayer for the 
use of the Church under the Gospel, as well as under 
the law ? The services of the synagogue, too, it is 
well known, were conducted according to a prescript 
form. To those services our blessed Lord did himself 
conform ; and severely as he reproved the Jews for 
their departure, in various particulars, from the prin- 
ciples of their fathers, against their practice in this 
particular never did he utter one word of censure; 
nay, he confirmed the practice when he himself gave 
to his disciples a form of prayer, and framed that 
prayer, too, on the model, and in some degree in the 
very words, of prayers then in use. Our Lord, more- 
over, when giving his directions to the rulers of his 
Church, at the same time that he conferred on them 
authority to bind and to loose, directed them to agree 
touching what they should ask for, which seems al- 
most to convey an injunction to the rulers of every 
particular Church to provide their people with a form 
of prayer” (Hook). But “far more weight than all 
other arguments together has the one obvious and sim- 
ple reason that our Lord's especial blessing and favor- 
able reception of petitions is bestowed on those who, 
assembling in his name, shall ‘agree’ touching what 
they shall ask in his name. Now this surely implies 
the exclusive use of precomposed prayers in a congre- 
gation, since it plainly seems an impossibility for un- 
inspired men to agree together in a prayer offered up 
by one of them if they do not know at least the sub- 
stance of the prayer before they hear him utter the 
words. In their private devotions, let individuals ad- 
dress their ‘ Father who secth in secret’ in any expres- 
sions (that are but intelligible to themselves) which 
occur at the moment. But congregational prayer, 
common supplication, joint worship, is a very different 
thing. And accordingly our Lord supplies to his dis- 
ciples no form of words for solitary devotion, but does 
teach them a fo:m evidently designed for joint wor- 
ship. The contrast is most remarkable : ‘ Thou , when 
thou prayest, enter into thy closet,’ etc.; ‘when ye 
pray, say, Our Father,’ etc. Our Lord, by teaching 
this form (and which he delivered on two distinct oc- 
casions in nearly the same words — Matt, vi, 9, and 
Luke xi, 1, 2), gave the strongest possible sanction to 
the use of precomposed prayers for congregational 
worship” (Eden). 

II. From Antiquity and Usage. — Extreme views are 
maintained as to the usage of the primitive Church in 
prayer. (1.) On the one hand, lord King says ( Consti- 
tution of the Primitive Church ), “ There is not the least 
mention of fixed forms in any of the primitive writings, 
nor the least word or syllable tending thereto, that I 
can find, w’hich is a most unaccountable silence if ever 
such there were, but rather some expressions intimat- 
ing the contrary.” One of the principal authorities 
which he adduces is Justin Martyr, who, describing 
the manner of the prayer before the celebration of the 
Lord’s Supper, says that the bishop sent up prayers 
and praises to God with his utmost ability (pat) ci'a'a/ut). 
This he expounds, that he prayed with the best of his 
abilities, invention, expression, and judgment, exert- 
ing his own gifts and parts in suitable manner and apt 
expression. He also quotes Tertullian and Origen in 
vindication of his views, that written forms of prayer 
were never used in the Church. To the same effect 
Coleman (A post. Church , ch. xi) maintains that forms 
are “ opposed to the simplicity and freedom of primi- 
tive Avorship,” and that their use, in fact, “ was un- 


FORMS OF PRAYER 


G 24 


FORMS OF PRAYER 


known in the primitive Church.” In proof of this 
position, he (with lord King) adduces Justin Martyr 
(f 105) (translation by Semisch, i, 72\ and Tertullian 
(j ‘220) (Apolog. ch. xxxix), who uses the phrase ice 
pray without a monitor, because from the heart (sine 
mouitore, quia de pectore), and also the fact that the 
four earliest liturgies originated in the 4tli century. 
(2.) On the other hand, it is argued that the Jewish 
synagogue had its liturgy, to which Christ and the 
apostles conformed ; that John Baptist taught his dis- 
ciples to pray, and that Christ gave a form to his fol- 
lowers in answer to their request; that if the four an- 
cient liturgies can only be traced to the 4th century, 
there are numerous passages in the fathers that imply 
their use in the apostolic age, and that fragments of 
them as far back as Clemens (A. I). 194) and Dionysius 
of Alexandria (247) are found ; that the passages from 
Justin and Tertullian, rightly interpreted, bear as 
strongly in favor of liturgies as against them ; that the 
Apostoiical Canons (q. v.) enjoin them ; and that, from 
the 4th century downwards, both the Eastern and 
Western churches have uniformly used forms of pray- 
er (Hook ; Eden, s. v.). On the historical questions as. 
to the earlv use of liturgies, see Liturgy. 

III. From the Tendencies and Besults of their Use . — 
(1.) Against forms , it is alleged that those adopted in 
one age are unsuitable to another; that the perpetual 
repetition of the same prayers makes them wearisome, 
and destroys their signiiicancy ; that they must often 
be unsuited to the occasion, to the sermon, and to the 
circumstances of the congregation ; and that their gen- 
eral tendency is, and always has been, to formalism 
and a mere outside worship, not of the heart, but of the 
lips. 

(2.) For the use of forms . it is asserted that the 
forms in use are, like the Psalms, from which they are 
largely derived, adapted to the worship of the Church 
in all ages ; that forms are not as wearisome to a de- 
vout mind as extempore prayers of the same length ; 
that for special occasions special prayers can always 
be framed; and that their tendency has been proved, 
in the history of the Church, to he most salutary. It 
is further objected to extemporaneous prayers that (1) 
“it must be generally impossible that the whole con- 
gregation should join in a prayer they never had heard 
before, the instant it is uttered ; and totally impossible 
many distinct congregations should all be uniformly 
employing the same extemporaneous prayer.” (2) 
That free prayer gives too little scope to the congrega- 
tion ; nothing is left for them to do ; they are, through- 
out, passive and receptive ; they hear the minister 
pray rather than join in public prayer; at best, they 
follow the minister rather than worship in prayer. (8) 
That free prayer tends to degenerate into preaching or 
exhortation ; that the preacher can hardly fail to aim 
at edifying his congregation instead of being simply 
their mouthpiece in the act of worship, and so his pray- 
ers become homiletical instead of devotional. (4) That 
unpremeditated prayers are apt to depend on the im- 
pulse of the moment in the preacher, his state of health, 
etc., and may therefore lie either short and cold on the 
one hand, or long and diffusive on the other; and that 
it is apt, therefore, to he personal rather than repre- 
sentative, if the prayer is the natural outflow of the 
minister’s heart, which, on the theory, it ought to he. 

A judicious writer in the Brit . and For. Kvang. litv. 
(July, 1857), after stating that there are only three po- 
sitions possible on this question — (1) the use of forms, 
with the exclusion of free prayer ; (2) free prayer, ex- 
cluding all forms ; (3) the combination, in greater or 
lesser measure, of both — argues that the Reformers 
and fathers of Protestantism favored the third. “ In 
practice they stood precisely midway between the two 
antagonist positions of modern times, and can be le- 
gitimately claimed as partisans by neither. They 
were the advocates neither of form nor of freedom, but 
of both. They at once sanctioned the use of liturgical 


aids, and vindicated the right of personal freedom. 
Whether rightly or wrongly, whether as a remnant of 
the old bondage which they could not all at once throw 
off, or the dictate of that divine conservative wisdom 
which in most things so marvellously guided them in 
reforming, not new founding, the Church, having re- 
gard also, perhaps, in some measure, to the circum- 
stances and necessities of their times, the fact, at least, 
is historical^ certain that with one consent they aimed 
rather at the combination and mutual co-operation of 
both elements than the exclusive predominance of 
either. While not confining their churches to any 
unbending ritual, they yet deemed it their duty to 
provide for them such fit and solemn forms of common 
prayer as should serve at once as a model and as an 
aid in the public -worship of God. This was the prin- 
ciple alike of Knox and of Cranmer, of Calvin equal- 
ly with Luther and Melancthon. At Geneva, at Zu- 
rich, at Wittenberg, at St. Andrew’s — wherever the 
great leaders of the Reformation were at liberty to 
carry out their views, the solemn service of the house 
of God proceeded according to a certain normal order, 
which -was designed to regulate and assist, not to re- 
strain, the free outpourings of the heart. England 
was an apparent, but only an apparent, exception to 
this rule. In her case the more rigid enforcement of 
an unvarying ritual was rather the result of urgent 
circumstances than of the personal convictions of her 
leading divines. The principle of comprehension on 
which her reformation was based rendered a certain 
restraint necessary in the interest, not of ritual uni- 
formity, but of Protestant truth. The object of sus- 
picion then was the Homan priest, not the evangeli- 
cal pastor, and the design of ritual restriction was 
rather to curb the license of the one than to fetter the 
liberty of the other. Ave Marias must be silenced, 
even though at the sacrifice of free prayer; the com- 
munion service must be prescribed by imperative ru- 
bric, or it will be turned by many into a mass. Put 
for this adventitious, and, in their view, probably tem- 
porary necessity, there is every reason to believe that 
the liturgical ordinances of the English reformers 
would have been much less fixed and stringent, and 
that in the matter of worship, as well as in other ele- 
ments of her constitution, the Church which they 
founded would have been brought into much nearer 
conformity with the general model of other Reformed 
communions. Be this, however, as it may, the real 
and essential point of difference, even in practice, be- 
tween Canterbury and Geneva was not the use, but 
the exclusive use of forms. The one confined, the 
other permitted and encouraged, the spontaneous ut- 
terances of devotion. The one supplied an aid, the 
other ordained a law. In truth, in the Scottish form 
at least, while much was provided, nothing was pre- 
scribed. Instead of the Anglican ‘then shall the 
priest say,’ its gentler and wiser language is ‘the min- 
ister nseth one of these two confessions,’ or ‘this pray- 
er following, 0 ?’ smh like.' The accustomed order, in 
short, was rather observed as a rule than obeyed as a 
law ; worn as a dress than borne as a burden ; followed 
with free and willing heart in the spirit rather than 
the letter — as a law of liberty, not a yoke of bondage” 
(p. GOO sq.). We cite also the Princeton Review as 
follows: “As to stated forms of prayer, their value 
must vary with circumstances. In no case ought the 
liberty of extemporaneous prayer to be taken from the 
minister in the pulpit. As well might preaching be 
confined by authority to prescribed forms of words. 
The discretion of the ministr} 1- may he trusted as freely 
in the one as the other. But if, in the solemn office 
of leading the united devotions of the assembly, the 
ministry might exercise a judgment better informed 
by approved exa’mples set forth for that end, and if it 
might even have an election between extemporaneous 
prayer and a form appointed to be used at option, the 
standard of extemporary prayer itself would rise, and 


FORMS OF PRAYER 


625 


FORNICATION 


the edification of our people in public worship would 
be enlarged. We must not make our liberty a cloak 
of licentiousness. There are few of our most able and 
eminent ministers who come as near the true standard 
of pulpit prayer as they do that of the sermon. When 
wc hear it said of such a man as Robert Hall that his 
prayers were felt by his hearers to be strikingly un- 
equal to his sermons, we seem to discern in a mind 
keenly sensitive to the proprieties of puipit prayer an 
aversion to making prayer the work of genius, and at 
the same time some lack of zeal in cultivating the pe- 
culiar talent for its just and most useful performance. 
But among our brethren of the lower grades of ability 
and industry we not unfrequcntly observe habits in 
this service from which many of onr sensible and pious 
people would gladly take refuge in a book of prayers. 
When we sometimes hear the intimation that the Book 
of Common Prayer, could it be quietly introduced, 
would be an improvement upon the present forms of 
devotion in many of our pulpits, we know this prefer- 
ence not to be for written prayers in general, but as 
an alternative and a way of escape from peculiar and 
unnecessary faults in prayers with which the observ- 
ers are often afflicted. We cannot assent to such a 
remark, but we have a deep impression of the needless 
imperfection of our present standard, and desire to 
speak that impression with emphasis. We are confi- 
dent that our standard may be so raised that all would 
feel the transition from extemporaneous to written 
prayers as a descent and a defection. When we ob- 
serve the special satisfaction of thousands of devout 
worshippers with what appear to us the indefinite and 
comparatively barren forms of the English liturgy, 
we see the great power of a few striking points of pro- 
priety in public prayer to engage the heart of true de- 
votion” (January, 1847, p. 81, 82). 

The conclusion arrived at by Richard Watson ( In- 
stitutes, ii, 507) is just and temperate, viz. that there 
are advantages in each mode of worship, and that, 
when combined prudently, the public service of the 
sanctuary has its most perfect constitution. Much, 
however, in the practice of churches is to be regulated 
by due respect to differences of opinion, and even to 
prejudice, on a point upon which we are left at libeity 
by the Scriptures, and which must therefore be ranked 
among things prudential. Here, as in many other 
things, Christians must give place to each other, and 
do all things “in charity.” 

Among the modern Protestant churches, the Church 
of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church use 
forms of prayer to the exclusion (generally) of free 
prayer in public worship. The Methodist Episcopal 
Church uses liturgical forms for sacraments and oth- 
er services, and free prayer in worship. The Pres- 
byterian churches use free prayer ( Directory of Wor- 
ship , ch. v). The Lutheran and Reformed churches 
have liturgical forms for certain services, but gen- 
erally use free prayer in worship. A movement to- 
wards more full liturgical services has been going on 
for some time in the German Reformed Church. See 
German Reformed Ciiurcii, and Liturgy. A ten- 
dency in the same direction appears to have arisen 
in the Presbyterian Church in the United States (see 
Shields, Liturgia Erpurgata, Philadel. 18G4; see also 
Baird, Eutaxia , or the Presbyterian Liturgies , N. York, 
1855, 18mo ; reprinted in London as A Chapter on Lit- 
urgies, edited by Thomas Binnev, 3850, 18mo). In the 
Established Church of Scotland, Dr. Robert Lee, of 
Edinburgh, was tried before the General Assembly in 
1859 for using a book entitled Prayers for Public Wor- 
ship in the public services of Old Gray friars’ Church, 
Edinburgh; and the Assembly enjoined Dr. Lee to 
discontinue the practice. But the tendency went on ; 
and in 1807 appeared Enchologicn , or Book of Prayers, 
being Forms of Worship issued by the Church-service So- 
ciety (Edinb. and Lond. 1807), under the auspices of 
Dr, Lee and Dr. Macleod. See, besides the works al- 
IIL — R r 


ready mentioned, Bingham, Orig. Eccl. bk. xiii; Pal- 
mer, Origines Liturgicw ; Leighton, HorLs, ii, 422; Mil- 
ton, Prose Works (Philadel. 1850), i, 90 sq. (against 
forms) ; Shields, The Book of Comm. Pi'a.yer as amend- 
ed by the Westminster Divines A.D. 1001, with a histori- 
cal and liturgical Treatise (Philadelphia, 1807, I2mo); 
Brownell, Family Prayer-book (Introduction); Butler, 
Common Prayer Illustrated , ch. i ; Princeton Pei iew, vii, 
389 sq. ; xviii, 487 sq. ; xxvii, 445 sq. ; Mercersburgh 
Review, Jan. 1808, art. vii; Evangelical Quarterly Re- 
view, Jan. 1809, p. 80. 

Formularies, a general name for the articles of 
religion, forms of service, etc., adopted by any partic- 
ular church. See Creeds; Confessions; Liturgy'. 

Formula Concordiae. See Concord, Formu- 
la of. 

Formula Consensus Helvetica. See Hel- 

vetic Confessions. 

Fornication (F^t Fi, taznuth ', rroQvtia, illicit sex- 
ual intercourse, especially of a married woman). Sec 
Adultery. From the Scriptures we learn that long 
before the time of Moses morals had become very much 
corrupted, and not only the prostitution of females, but 
of boys, was very common among many nations, and 
even made a part of the divine worship, as may be in- 
ferred from the Hebrew words kadesh , a prostitute boy, 
and kedeshah, the feminine of it, which words properly 
and originally mean a person religiously set apart and 
consecrated to the flagitious vice in question (Deut. 
xxiii, 18; 1 Kings xiv, 24; Job xxxvi, 14; Gen. 
xxxviii, 21, 22; Numb, xxi, 1; Deut. xxiii, 18; Hos. 
iv, 14). How great the corruption of manners with 
reference to the marriage relation was among the 
Egj'ptians appears from Herodotus (ii, 111) as well as 
the Bible. The wife of one of the oldest kings was 
untrue to 'him. It was a long time before a woman 
could be found who was faithful to her husband; and 
when one was at last found, the king took her without 
hesitation for himself. "With impudent shamelessness 
Potiphar’s wife seeks to seduce Joseph (Gen. xxxix, 
7). The evidence of the monuments is also not very 
favorable to the Egyptian women. Thus they are 
represented as addicted to excess in drinking wine, 
as even becoming so much intoxicated as to be unable 
to stand or walk alone, or “to carry their liquor dis- 
creetly” (Wilkinson’s Egypt. ii, 167). To prevent those 
evils to which the Greek and Roman philosophers re- 
fused to oppose any decided resistance, Moses made 
the following regulations : 1. That among the Hebrews 
no prostitute, either male nor female, should he toler- 
ated; and that if the daughter of a priest especially 
were guilty of fornication, she should be stoned and 
her body burnt (Lev. xxi, 9) ; because these things, as 
Moses observes in Lev. xix, 29; Deut. xxiii, 17, 38, 
were a great abomination in the sight of God. Fur- 
ther, in order that priests of avaricious minds should 
not, in imitation of other nations, make crimes of this 
kind a part of the divine worship, he enacted, 2. That 
the price of prostitution, though presented in return 
for a vow, should not be received at tbe sanctuary 
(Dent, xxiii, 18). This law, it seems, was sometimes 
violated in the times of the kings (2 Kings xxiii, 7). 
He also enacted, 3. That the man who had seduced a 
female should marry her, and in case the father would 
not consent, should pay the customary dowry, viz. 
thirty shekels: in case violence had been offered, fifty 
shekels (Exod. xxii, 10; Deut. xxii, 23-29). This law 
appears to have originated in an ancient custom al- 
luded to in Gen. xxxiv, 1-12. Finally, to secure the 
great object, be enacted, 4. That any one who, when 
married, was not found to be a virgin, as she professed 
before marriage, should be stoned before her father’s 
house (Deut. xxii, 20, 21). These laws, it must be ad- 
mitted, were severe ; but prostitutes of both sexes, not- 
withstanding their severity, were set apart in the time 
of the kings for the service of idols (Prov. ii, 1G-19 ; 


FORO JULIAN MANUSCRIPT 620 


FORT [A D’URBAN 


V, 3- 6; vii, 5-27; 1 Kings xiv, 24; xv, 12; Amos ii, 

7 ; vii, 17 ; Jer. iii, 2; v, 7 ; John viii, 8-11). Among 
the Greeks aiul Romans of the apostles’ day licentious- 
ness was fearfully prevalent. Sec Harlot. 

In Scripture this word occurs more frequently in its 
symbolical than in its ordinary sense. In the Proph- 
ets woman is often made the symbol of the church or 
nation of the Jews, which is regarded as affianced to 
Jehovah by the covenant on Mount Sinai. In Ezek. 
xvi there is a long description of that people under 
the symbol of a female child, growing up to the stat- 
ure of a woman, and then wedded to Jehovah t> 3 r en- 
tering into covenant with him. Therefore, when the 
Israelites acted contrary to that covenant by forsaking 
God and following idols, they were very properly rep- 
resented by the symbol of a harlot or adulteress offer- 
ing herself to all comers (Isa. i, 2 ; Jcr. ii, 20; Ezek. 
xvi ; IIos. i, 2 ; iii, 11). Thus fornication, or adultery 
(which is fornication in a married state), became, and 
is used as the symbol of idolatry itself (Jer. iii, 8, 9 ; 
Ezek. xvi, 20, 29; xxiii, 87). See Wemyss’s Claris 
Symb. s. v. Woman. Sec Idolatry. 

Forojulian Manuscript ( Codex Forojuliensis ), 
an important copy of the early Latin version of the 
Gospels at Triuli, published in part by Blanchini ( Evan- 
gel . Quadruplex , append.). Mark's Gospel is partly at 
Venice in a state of decay, and partly at Prague, the 
last having been edited by Dobrowskv in 1778. — Scriv- 
ner, Introd. p. 2G5 ; Tregclles, in Horne’s Jntrod . iv, 
254. See Latin Versions. 

Forskal, Peter, a Swedish naturalist, was born 
at Smaland in 1730, and was educated at Gottingen. 
He devoted his life to natural science, travelled ex- 
tensively, and died on an Eastern tour at Djerim, in 
Yemen, July 11, 17G3. Ilis name is mentioned here on 
account of his Descriptiones Animalium, ovium , amphibi- 
orum , etc., quee in itincre oriental i observavit 1\ Forska \ 
published after his death (Copenh. 1775, 4to) ; Flora 
- Egyptlaco-A r able a sire descriptiones plantaram , etc. 
(ed. C. Niebuhr (Copenhagen, 1775, 4to); and leones 
rcrum naturalhun , etc. (Copenhagen, 177G, 4to), which 
are of value for the natural history of Scripture. — 
Hocfer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xviii, 198. 

Forster, Bartholomasus, a German Roman 
Catholic theologian, was born Aug. 12, 1753. He was 
ordained a secular priest in 1776, and went then to Al- 
tenottingen. Here his opposition to the celibacy of 
the clergy, etc., brought him into trouble. He finally 
became professor of rhetoric and Greek literature in 
the Gymnasium of Landslnit in 1803. Among his 
writings are Entlarvter Aberglaubm bei Reliquien , Bil- 
dern , etc. (Munchen, 1803) : — Yon d. Intei'esse d. rumi- 
schm Curie an A blassen u. Eriiderschaften (Mini. 1803). 
— Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 43G. 

Forster, Johann, an eminent German theologian 
and scholar, was born at Augsburg in 1495. He be- 
came professor of Hebrew at Zwickau, and assisted 
Luther in his translation of the Bible. In 1535 he was 
made pastor of St. Moritz at Augsburg by the influ- 
ence of Luther. His zeal for the Lutheran doctrines 
often brought him into conflict with his colleagues at 
the university. He even attacked Blarer and CEco- 
lampadins. A visiting committee, sent from Stutt- 
gard in 1540, laid the matter before the duke, who de- 
cided against Forster. The latter retired to Nurem- 
berg, from whence he proceeded to Ratisbon, and in 
1513 accepted a call to Schleusingen. He finally 
succeeded Crueiger as professor of theology in the 
University of Wittenberg. In 1554 he assisted Me- 
lancthon in the Osiandrian controversies, and died at 
Wittenberg Dec. 8, 155G. He wrote a Hebrew Lexi- 
con, Dictionarium Jlebraicum Novum., etc. (Basel, 1557, 
fob), founded purely on the Hebrew of the Bible, and 1 
throwing out Rabbinical sources of information. His 
letters arc of considerable importance for the history 
of that time. — Herzog, Real-Eucykhp. iv, 436. There 1 


is an elaborate article on Forster in the Zeitschrift f. 
d. hist. Theologie , 1809, p. 210 sq. 

Forster, Nathaniel, a learned English divine, 
was born at Stadscombe, Devonshire, Feb. 3, 1717; 
educated at Corpus Christi, of which he became fellow 
in 1729; obtained a prebcndal stall in the cathedral 
of Bristol and the vicarage of Rochdale in 1754. In 
1757 he became preacher at the Rolls, and died Oct. 20 
in that year. He wrote Reflections on the high Antiq- 
uity of Government , Arts , and Sciences in Egypt (Oxf. 
1743, 8vo): — A Dissertation on Josephus's Account of 
Jesus Christ (Oxf. 1749): — Biblia Ilebraica sine punctis 
(1750, 2 vols. 4to) : — Popery destructive of the Evidences 
of Christianity (Oxf. 1746), — IJiog. Britunnica , s. v. 

Forster, William, a member of the Socict}' of 
Friends, was born at Tottenham, England, in i794. 
lie was carefully trained hv his parents, who were ex- 
cellent “Friends,” and at nineteen began to exercise 
his gifts as a “ minister.” Most of his life was devo- 
ted to missionary journeys through the British Islands, 
the Continent of Europe, and the United States, on his 
third visit to which, “ with an antislavery address to 
the president and governors,” he died in Tennessee, 
in the sixty-ninth year of his age. In the preceding 
year, 1852, he visited the Vaudois of Piedmont, and 
printed a large number of books and tracts in Italian 
for circulation. Everywhere he scattered blessings 
by word and deed, “leaving his mark for good on 
everything he set his hand to.” His son, William 
E. Forster, is (18G9) a member of the British Parlia- 
ment, and an eminent Liberal in politics.— Seebohm, 
Memoirs of William Forster (London, 1865, 2 vols.); 
Christian Remembrancer , January, 186G, art. iv. 

Fort, the rendering in the A. V. of the following 
Hcb. words: metsad' (so called as a place of ly- 

ing in wait), a castle , esp. on a hill, Ezek. xxxiii, 27 
(elsewhere usually “stronghold”); or fern. 
metsudah ' , a similar kind of fastness, e. g. the citadel 
of Zion, 2 Sam. v, 9 (elsewhere “ fortress,” etc.). 

maos' (so called from its strength ), a stronghold , 
fortified by nature and art, Dan. xi, 19 (elsewhere usu- 
ally “strength,” etc.), dayclc (so called from 

looking out), a watch-tower, especially a sealing-tower 
in a siege, 2 Kings xxv, 1; Jer. Iii, 4; Ezek. iv, 2; 
xvii,17 ; xxi, 22; xxvi, 8, metsurah' (so call- 

ed as being compact), a fortif cation, e. g. in the siege 
of a city; generally for defence (“fenced city,” q. v.), 
but also for assault, Isa. xxix, 3. 72:*, o'phcl (q. v.), 

a mount (so called from its tumulus form), Isa. xxxii, 
14 (elsewhere “tower,” “stronghold”). "V-P, mis- 
gab' (so called from its height), a refuge (as often ren- 
dered ; also “tower,” “defence”), Da. xxv, 13. Sec 
Fortification. 

Fortia d Urban, Marquis of, was horn Feb. 18, 
175G, and died at Paris Aug. 4, 1843. After complet- 
ing his studies at the Military School in Paris, lie en- 
tered the army in 1773, but resigned his commission 
in 1779 to attend to an important suit in Rome before 
the papal court of appeals (the Rota), pending the de- 
cision of which he devoted himself to the study of the 
fine arts, antiquities, and mathematics. He was a 
prolific author, and wrote on a variety of subjects, of 
which wc mention Principes et Questions de Morale 
Naturcdle (Paris, new ed., 1834, 2 vols. 12mo) : — Direc- 
tion pour la Conscience d'un roi (Paris, 1821, 12mo) : — 
Chronologic de la vie de Jesvs-Clirist (Paris, 1827. 8vo, 
and 1830, 12 mo) : — Note snr la Genie du Christi etr.isme 
(Par. 1830, 8vo) : — Essai sur Vorigine de Vecriture, etc. 
(Paris, 1832, 8vo): — Sur les trois sys times d'Ecriture 
dcs Egyptiens (Paris, 1833, 12mo) : — Essai sur limmor- 
talite de V dmc et sur la resurrection (Paris, 1835, 12mo) * 
— Discours prononces an Circle de Morale Universille 
(Paris, 1835-9, 12m ok — Memoirespour servir a t'histoire 
de V introduction du Christhinisnie dans les Gaulcs (Par. 


FORTIFICATION 


027 


FORTIFICATION 


1838, 8vo). He was also a collaborator in the Chefs- ! 
d'iEuvres des Peres de VEglise (Paris, 15 vols. 8vo), 
and the Annales de la Philosophie Chreticnne. — Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate , xviii, 217-221. (J. W. M.) 

Fortification. The Hebrews had several terms 
which include the idea of military walls, and which 
are variously rendered in the Auth. Vers., as “fort,” 
“fortress,” “fenced city,” “castle,” “strong-hold,” 
“mound,” “trench,” etc., all of which see in their 
places. 

inventions for the defence of men in social life are 
older than history. The walls, towers, and gates rep- 
resented on Egyptian monuments, though dating back 
to a period of fifteen centuries before the Christian era, 
bear evidence of an advanced state of fortifications — 


Africa, between the trade of the East and the West, 
and between the religious feelings of the whole earth, 
has been the common battle-field of all the great na- 



and desolation, oftentimes repeated, have been spread 
over every habitable place. Stones from six to fifty 
feet in length, with suitable proportions, can still be 
detected in many walls of the cities of those regions, 
wherever quarries existed; from Nineveh, where, be- 
neath the surface, there still remain ruins and walls 
of huge stones, sculptured with bas-reliefs, originally 
painted, to Babylon, and Bassorah, where bricks, sun- 
dried or baked, and stamped with letters, are yet found, 
as well as in all the plains of the rivers where that ma- 
terial alone could be easily procured. Sec Arciii- 


of walls built of squared stones, or of squared timber 
judiciously placed on the 
summit of scarped rocks, 
or within the circumference 
of one or two wet ditches, 
and furnished along the top 
with regular battlements to 
protect the defenders (sec 
Wilkinson, i, 407 sq.). All 
these are of later invention 
than the accumulation of 
unhewn or rudely-chipped 
uncemented stones, piled on 
each other in the form of 
walls, in the so-called Cy- 
clopean, Pelasgian, Etrus- 
can, and Celtic styles, where 
there are no ditches, or tow- 
ers, or other gateways than 
mere openings occasionally left between the enormous 
blocks employed in the work. As the first three 
styles occur in Etruria they show the progressive ad- 
vance of military architecture, and may be considered 
as more primitive, though perhaps posterior to the era 
when the progress of Israel, under the guidance of 
Joshua, expelled several Canaanitish tribes, whose 
system of civilization, in common with that of the rest 
of Western Asia, bore an Egyptian type, and whose 




Ancient Assyrians attacking a Fort. 

As among the Hebrews there was no system of 
construction strictly so called, but simply an applica- 
tion of the means of defence to the localities, no uni- 
formity of adaptation existed, and therefore wc refer 
to the foregoing as specimens of the numerous illustra- 
tions of this subject that occur on the Egyptian and 
Assyrian monuments, and to other explanations which 
are given under the several terms in other parts of 
this work. See also City ; Siege ; War, etc. 

The wall, chonudi , was sometimes double or 

triple (2 Chron. xxxii, 5), successively girding a rocky 
elevation; and “building a cit}'” originally meant the 
construction of the wall. Sec Wall. Before wall- 
towers, T'^yz, migdaloth were introduced, the gate 
of a city, originally single, formed a kind of citadel, 
and was the strongest part of all the defences : it was 
the armory of the community, and the council-house 
of the authorities. “ Sitting in the gate” was, and 
still is, synonymous with the possession of power, and 
even now there is commonly in the fortified gate of a 
royal palace in the East, on the floor above the door- 
way, a council-room with a kind of balcony, ■whence 
the sovereign sometimes sees his people, and where he 
may sit in judgment. Hence the Turkish government 
is not unfrequently termed the Porte, mid in this sense 
allusion to gates often occurs in the Scriptures. The 
tower, tseri'ach, was another fortification of the 

earliest date, being often the *citadel or last retreat 
when a city was taken ; or, standing alone in some 
naturally strong position, was intended to protect a 
frontier, command a pass, or to he a place of refuge 
and deposit of treasure in the mountains, when the 
plain should be no longer defensible. This was the 
kind of citadel which defended passes, and in the 
mountains served for retreat in times of calamity, and 
for the security of the royal treasures ; and it was on 
account of the confined space within, and the great ele- 
vation of the ramparts, that private houses frequently 


towers and battlements were remarkably high, or, 
rather, were erected in very elevated situations. 

When, therefore, the Israelites entered Palestine, we 
may assume that the “fenced cities” they had to at- 
tack were, according to their degree of antiquity, for- 
tified with more or less of art. hut ab with huge stones 

in the lower walls, like the Etruscan. Indeed, Asia _ . • ■ .. „ i- 

. • o • i t i 4.-1 1 i i stood upon their summit, as was the case when the 

Minor, Armenia, Svria, and even Jerusalem, still bear / t \ . T ’ , . . T • t u 

’ - - harlot Iiahab recei ved Joshua’s spies m Jericho (Josh. 

ii, 1). Watch-towers, fiST'S, mizpak ', and ti- 


marks of this most ancient system, notwithstanding 
that this region, the connecting link between Asia and 


FORTRESS 


628 


FOSTER 


rah' , used by shepherds all over Asia, and even now 
built on eminences above some city in the plain, in or- 
der to keep a look-out upon the distant country, were 
already in use, and occasionally converted into places 
of defence (2 Chron. xxvi, 10 ; xxvii, 4). See Tow- 
er. The gateways were closed by ponderous folding- 
doors, *1.* w, sha! ar , the valves or folds, dela- 

tha'yim , being secured by wooden bars : both the doors 
and bars were in after times plated with metal. See 
Gate. A ditch (? ?"n, eheyl), w'here the nature of 
the locality required it, was dug in front of the ram- 
part, and sometimes there w r as an inner wall, with a 
second ditch before it. See Ditcii. As the experi- 
ence of ages increased, huge “counter forts,” double 
buttresses, or masses of solid stone and masonry (not 
bulwarks), were built in particular parts to sustain the 
outer wall, and afford space on the summit to place 
military engines (2 Chron. xxvi, 15). — Kitto, s. v. See 
Fenced City ; Munition. 



Portress, the rendering in the A. V. of the follow- 
ing Hebrew' terms: T.IS'a, mat tor (from its intrench - 
men€), fortification , Jer. x, 27 (elsewhere “bulwark,” 
“ fenced city,” etc.). metsudah 1 (from its secu- 

rity'), a castle, espec. poet., 2 Sam. xvii, 2 ; Psn. xviii, 
2, 3; lxxi, 3; xei, 3; cxliv, 2 (elsewhere usually 
“ stronghold”). “IT— *«, mibtsar' (as being inaccessible), 
a fortified place, Isa. xviii, 3; xxv, 32; xxxiv, 13; 
Ilos. x, 14 ; Amos v, 0 (elsew here “fenced city” [q. v.], 
“stronghold,” etc.). 7*"^, maoz ‘ (from its strength), 
a stronghold, Jer. xvi, 10; Dan. xi, 7, 10 (elsewhere 
“ strength,” etc.). See Fortification. 

Fortunatianus, bishop of Aquileia, w'as of Afri- 
can origin, and an active participant in the strifes w hich 
agitated the Church in the 4th century. At the Coun- 
cil of Milan, A.D. 355, he joined in the condemnation 
of Athanasius, but after 357 we bear no more of him. 
He wrote commentaries on the Gospels, characterized 
by Jerome as useful, though incorrect in style.— II oe- 
fer, Xonv. Bing. G ini-rale, xviii, 232; Ccillier, Ilistoire 
des Auteurs Ecclisiastiques , t. vi, p. 11. (.1. Vi. M.) 

Fortuna'tus (Gneeizcd ^oprozn-aroi), a disciple 
of Corinth, of Boman birth or origin, as his name indi- 
cates, who visited Paul at Ephesus, and returned, along 
with Stephanus and Achairits, in charge of that apos- 
tle’s first Epistle to the Corinthian Church (1 Cor. xvi, 
17), A.D. 54. Some have supposed that these three 
Corinthian brethren were “they which are of the house 
of Chloe” (oc Wopc), alluded to in 1 Cor. i, 11 ; but 
the language of irony, in which the apostle must in 
that case be interpreted in eh. xvi as speaking of their 
presence, would become sarcasm too cutting for so ten- 
der a heart as Paul’s to have uttered among his vale- 
dictions. “The household of Stephanas” is mention- 
ed in chap, i, 10 as having been baptized by Paul him- 
self: perhaps Fortunatus and Aehalcus may have been 
members of that household. There is a Fortunatus 
mentioned at the end of Clement’s first Epistle to the 
Corinthians, who was possibly the same person. — Kit- 
to, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Fortunatus, Venantius, Honorius Clemen- 


tianus, bishop of Toitiers, and a Latin poet, w^as born 
about A.D. 530, near Trevko, in Italy. He studied 
I grammar, rhetoric, literature, and law, and became so 
distinguished as an orator as to receive the surname of 
“ Scholasticissimus.” From Italy he came to France, 
where he acquired great reputation as a poet, and W’a 3 
received with favor at the court of Sigebert, king of 
Austrasia, in honor of whose marriage with Brunhilde 
I (506) he wrote one of his poems. Having gone to 
Poitiers, he became preacher and confessor of the con- 
vent to which the former queen Badcgniule and her 
sister had retired. Here he continued his philosoph- 
ical and theological studies with great ardor, and be- 
came connected w'ith Gregory of Tours (q. v.) and oth- 
| er dignitaries of the Church. He was appointed bish- 
op of Poitiers in 590, but died soon after, probably 
about 609. He wrote eleven books of poetry on di- 
vers subjects ; bvmns, many of which have been used 
by the Church; epistles to different bishops, especial- 
ly to Gregory of Tours ; stories dedicated to his pro- 
tectors, Kadegunde and Agnes, which have given rise 
to an unfounded accusation of improper intimacy be- 
tween them; the life of St. Martin ; an explanation of 
the Lord’s prayer, etc. He was the first to use rhyme 
with a certain degree of mastery, though with consid- 
erable license ; he also mastered the trochaic tetrame- 
ter. Ilis best known hymns are Ycxilla Regis pj'ode- 
vnt , and Range Lingua Ghriosi, which arc incorporated 
into tlie Homan breviary. They may he found in Dan- 
iel, Thesaurus Hymnologicns, i, ICO sq., and are given, 
with Neale’s translations, by Schaff, Jlistory of the 
Christian Church , iii, 596 sq., and in Schaff, Chnst in 
Song (New York, 1869). A Commentary on the A thana- 
sian Creed is attributed to him ; Water land vindicates 
his authorship of it (llmds, Oxford, 1843, iii, 134 sq.), 
but Lucchi and other critics deny it. INI urn tori con- 
jectured (without adequate ground) that Fortunatus 
was the author of the Athanasian Creed itself. His 
j w ritings were collected l>y Brower, Opera Omnia ; 
published also in Bibl. Max. Pat rum (1677). The best 
edition is that of Lucchi (Pome, 1786-7, 2 vols. 4to; 
reproduced in Migne, Patrologia Latina , vols. lxxii and 
Ixxviii). A full account of the writings of Fortunatus 
is given in Ccillier, Auteurs Sacris (Paris, 38G2), xi, 

I 402 sq. Sec also Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xviii, 
227-81. 

Fosbrooke, Tiiowas Dudley, a distinguished 
archaeologist, was born in London May 27, 1770. He 
was educated at St. Paul’s School, and elected scholar 
| at Pembroke College, Oxford, in 1785. In 3794 he be- 
came curate of Horsley ; in 1810, curate of Walford ; 
in 1830, vicar of Walford. He died January 3, 1842. 
Ilis arch ico logical writings arc very valuable. His 
works are British Monachism : Manners and Customs of 
Monies and Xuns in England (Loud, new' ed. 3843, imp. 
8vo): — Encyclopedia of Antiquities, Classical and Me- 
dieval (new' cd. Lond. 1843, 2 vols. imp. Svo) : — .1 rts, 
Manufactures , etc. of the Greeks anil Romans (Louden, 
1833-5, 2 vols. fcp. 8vo). A memoir of his life is \ re- 
1 fixed to the British Monachism. 

Fcscores, Fcssorii. See Copiat.e. 

Fccter, Benjamin, D.D., a Baptist preacher 
and author, was born at Danvers, Mass., June 12, 
1750, and graduated at Yale College in 1774. Near 
the close of his college course, having been appointed 
to take part in a discussion of the subject of baptism 
on the lVdobaptist side, his investigations made him a 
I convert to Baptist views. Ho pursued his studies in 
theology under the Bev. Dr. Stillman, of Boston, and 
was ordained pastor of a church in Leicester, Mass., 
in 1776. He was afterwards pastor successively at 
Newport, P. I., and at New r York. During the prev- 
alence of yellow fever in 1798 he declined to seek im- 
munity from it by leaving his post of duty, and died 
from exposure to the pestilence. He W'as a diligent 
, and zealous preacher, a devoted pastor, and respecta- 


FOSTER 


620 


FOUNDLING HOSPITALS 


blc scholar, lie was the author of, 1. The Washing | 
of Regeneration , or the Divine Right of Immei'sion : — 2. 
Primitive Baptism defined : — 3. A Dissertation on the 
Seventy Weeks of Daniel (Newport, 1787). (L. E. S.) 

Foster, James, IX D., an eminent Nonconform- 
ist divine, was horn at Exeter in 1097. lie began 
preaching as an Independent in 1718. In 1724 he be- 
came a Baptist, succeeding the eminent Gale. Ilis 
eloquence gained for him enthusiastic popularity. 
Pope, Savage, and Bolingbroke were among his eulo- 
gists. But, with all his personal virtues and popular 
talents, “ he neither professed nor possessed much zeal 
for the essential doctrines of Christianity.” lie pub- 
lished Sermons (Loud. 1745, 4th ed. 8vo) Discourses 
on Xalural Religion and the Social Virtues (Loud. 1749); 
un i an Essay on Fundamentals , especially the doctrine 
of the Trinity. Ilis most important work, and that 
l>y which he is best known, is his Defence of the Use- 
fulness, Truth , and Excellency of the Christian Religion , 
written against Tyndale (Lond. 1734, 3d ed. Svo). He 
died in 1753. (L. E. S.) 

Foster, John, the celebrated essayist, was born 
at Halifax, Yorkshire, Sept. 17, 1770. In early life 
he was set to the trade of a weaver. At the age of 
seventeen, having joined a Baptist church, he entered 
the Baptist College at Bristol. On the completion of 
his studies he began preaching at Neweastlc-on-Tyne. 
Being somewhat unsettled in his doctrinal views, he 
sought a connection with the “ General Baptists,” and 
made an unsuccessful attempt to establish himself at 
Dublin. Keturning to England, he labored success- 
ively at Chichester, Frome, and Downend. His mod- 
erate success as a preacher was in striking contrast 
with his unquestioned intellectual power and his liter- 
ary reputation. While residing at Downend he pro- 
duced the Essays which have won a permanent place 
in English literature. Becoming disabled for labor in 
the pulpit, lie removed to Stapleton, near Bristol, and 
gave himself wholly to literary pursuits. For thir- 
teen years he was a principal contributor to the Eclec- 
tic Review. In 1819 he published his essay On the 
Evils of Popular Ignorance , which he esteemed his best 
production, though it has never attained to the popu- 
larity of the essay On Decision of Character. His con- 
tributions to the Eclectic Review were published in 
1840, in two volumes. A volume selected from these 
has been published in this country. lie died in 1843. 
Since his death h ive appeared Lectures delivered at 
Broadmead Chapel , Bristol (2 vols.), a discourse on 
Missions, an essay On the Importance of Religion , writ- 
ten as an introduction to Doddridge’s Rise and Progress, 
and an unfinished essay On the Improvement of Time. 
His Life and Correspondence , edited hv J. E. IJyland 
(18-16), is a work of great interest (republished in Bos- 
ton). A letter written late in life, and then first pub- 
lished, disclosed the fact, before unsuspected, that he 
had renounced the doctrine of the eternity of future 
punishment. Ilis writings are marked by strong, 
original, often sombre thought, stimulating to the best 
principles and purposes. (L. E. S.) 

Fothergill, Samuel, an eminent and highly re- 
spected Quaker preacher, travelled and preached in 
many parts of England, Scotland, Ireland, and North 
America, and died in 1773. lie wrote Remarks on an 
Address to the People called Quakers , etc. (1761, 8vo): 
— Rephj to E. Owen on Water Baptism (1763, Svo): — 
Letters (1816). — Allibone, Dictionary of Authors, s. v. ; 
Bose, vii, 423. (J.W. M.) 

Foucher, Paul, a learned French abbot, was horn 
at Tours in 1701, and died at Paris in 1778. He stud- 
ied theology at the Sorbonne, hut showed more fond- 
ness for the ancient languages. His chief work, Traite 
historique de la Religion des Perses, inserted in the Me- 
moirs of the Aeadeni 3 r of Inscriptions (tom. xxv, xxvii, 
sxix, xxxi, xxxix ; German translation by Kleuker, 


Biga, 1781-3, 2 vols. 4to), combats the opinion of Hyde 
that the Persians had preserved natural religion and 
the worship of the true God. A supplement, after the 
! appearance of Du Perron’s Zend A vesta, retracts many 
of his previous opinions. His next most important 
work, Recherches sur I'Origine et la Nature de la Relig- 
ion des Grecs, also inserted in the Memoirs of the Acad- 
emy, considers the gods of the Greek and Roman pan 
theon as only deified men, and claims a historical ba- 
sis for their myths. — Hosier, Nouv. Biog. Giner. xviii, 
284,285. (J.W. M.) 

Fouclier de Chartres. See Fulciierius. 

Foulis, Henry, was horn about 1638, and died in 
1685. lie pursued his studies at Oxford, was ordained 
for the ministry, but devoted himself to history. We 
have from him, History of the wicked Plots and Con- 
spiracies of our pretended Saints, etc. (Lond. 1662, and 
Oxford, 1674, fob): — History of the Romish Treasons 
and Usurpations, etc. (Oxford, 1671, fol.) ; and, accord- 
ing to Watt, Cabala, or the History of the Conventicle 
Uncased (1664, 4to) : — Sermons , etc. — Allibone, Diet . 
of Authors, s. v. ; Wood, Athen. Oxon. (J.W. M.) 

Foulques de Neuilly. See Fulco. 

Foundling Hospitals are institutions for the 
reception and care of children, especially illegitimate 
ones, abandoned by their parents. They owe their 
origin, it is said, to the desire of preventing infanti- 
cide and t lie exposure of children. Among the an- 
cient Greeks and Romans, infanticide and abortion not 
only prevailed to a fearful extent, but were tolerated, 
nay, in certain cases, even sanctioned by the laws and 
by the opinions of philosophers (see Plato, De Repub. 
v, 460, C. ; Aristotle, Pol it. vii, 16 ; Livy, Ilist. xxvii, 
37 ; Cicero, De Leg. iii, 8, et al.). The exposure of 
children was a still more prevalent custom, commend- 
ing itself, we may suppose, to the natural feelings of 
the parents as less cruel than infanticide, since it prom- 
ised a chance, at least, of saving life. The foundling 
became the slave of the individual or community at 
whose expense it was cared for and educated. To fa- 
cilitate the finding of exposed infants, places of public 
resort were chosen for the exposure, such as market- 
places, temples, road-crossings, wells, etc. In Athens 
the cynosarges, and in Rome the column a lad aria, were 
usually selected for this purpose. Frequently tokens 
( crepundia ), as rings or other costly ornaments, or, in 
the case of poor parents, trinkets of small value, were 
deposited with the child, for the purpose of inducing 
some one to receive it, or as a means of identifying the 
child, should its parents afterwards wish to recover it. 
Gibbon, treating of the limitations of paternal author- 
ity in his chapter on Roman jurisprudence {Hist, iv, 
344, N. Y. 1852), says: “The exposition of children 
was the prevailing and stubborn vice of antiquity; it 
was sometimes prescribed, often permitted, almost al- 
ways practised with impunity by nations who never 
entertained the Roman ideas of paternal power; and 
the dramatic poets, who appeal to the human heart, 
represent with indifference a popular custom which 
was palliated by the motives of eeonony and compas- 
sion.” As some relief to the dark shading of this pic- 
ture, and yet a proof of its correctness, we may in- 
stance the praise which Strabo (lib. xvii) bestows oil 
the Egyptians, and ./Elian ( Curia; Ilistonce , ii, 7) on 
the Boeotian Thebes, because their laws and customs 
forbade the killing or exposure of children ; as also 
the statement of Tacitus ( De Mor. Germ. 19), that the 
Germans reckoned infanticide a crime. It is said, 
however, that the} 1- exposed children before the intro- 
duction of Christianity among them. 

Though the laws of Moses contained no express pro- 
visions on this subject, the Jews rightly interpreted 
their spirit as forbidding this unnatural conduct (see 
Tacitus, Hist, v, 5; Josephus, Contra Apion, ii, 24; 
Philo Judaeus, De Legib . Special, ad prajeept. 6 et 7). 


FOUNDLING HOSPITALS 


630 


FOUNDLING HOSPITALS 


The teachings of Christianity, by causing infanti- 
cide and child-exposure to be regarded as sins, gradu- 
ally wrought a change in the laws and customs in re- 
gard to them, though the iirst Christian emperors did 
not venture to forbid exposure as a crime. Constan- 
tine, however, termed it a sort of murder, and, prompt- 
ed perhaps by the humane Lactantins, sought in his 
decrees, A.l). bio, 322, 331, to prevent the murder, sale, 
giving in pawn or exposure of children, by making 
provision out of the public treasury for those whose 
parents were too poor to support them ( Codex Thcodos . 
lih. xi, tit. 27), and by depriving parents of the hope 
of recovering exposed children, or making good the 
expenses incurred by those who had received and 
maintained them ( Codex Theados. lib. v, tit. 7, De Ex- 
pnsitis, 1. i, p. 487, ed. Hitter). The cruel custom was, 
however, nut entirely prohibited until the latter half 
of the 4th century, when, under Valcntinian and his 
colleagues, such murders were brought “within the 
letter and spirit of the Cornelian law” ( Codex Justin. 
lib. iv, tit. 52). A further advance of opinion in the 
right direction was indicated by a special law of Jus- 
tinian, A.L). 520, which forbade the enslavement of 
foundlings ( Codex Justin, lib. viii, tit. De Infant. Ex- 
2>os. 1 . iii). 

►Some suppose that foundling hospitals, or institu- 
tions of a similar character, were, at a very early pe- 
riod, established at or near the eolumna lactarm at 
Home and the cynosarges at Athens, mentioned above 
as places of exposure. The Justinian Codes, by the 
term bnphotrophhun (/3pt0orpo0*ior), mentioned in 
connection with, but as distinct from, other institu- 
tions (for the relief of strangers, the poor, orphans, 
etc.), appear to refer to hospitals for foundlings. An 
establishment of the kind is said to have been founded 
at Treves in the Gth or 7th century. The Capitularies 
of Charlemagne employ the Justinian term brephetro- 
phia apparently with reference to foundling hospitals, 
though the Franks at that time regarded foundlings as 
the property of those who should receive and educate 
them. The earliest foundling hospital concerning 
which we have any authentic information was that 
founded at A1 ilan, A.D. 787, by Patliens, a priest, be- 
cause of the prevalence of infanticide. If the child 
had not been baptized, salt w*as strewed between its 
swaddling-clothes before bringing it to the hospital to 
denote that fact. The children were suckled by hired 
nurses, supplied with necessaries, taught some handi- 
craft, and at seven years of age discharged as free- 
born. In 1070 Oliver de la Trail founded at Montpel- 
lier the order of the Ilospitidurii Saneti ftpiritus, one 
of whose vows was to provide for the maintenance and 
education of foundlings. Since that time hospitals for 
foundlings have been gradually established in most 
European, and Spanish, and Portuguese- American 
states, to the most important of which only we have 
space to refer. Attached to the hospital of the Spirito 
Xanto in Home is one for foundlings, with accommo- 
dations for 3000 children ; the number annually re- 
ceived is about 800, some of whom are sent to the. 
country to be nursed; the mortality in the hospital 
was (1N59) 57 per cent., and still greater in the coun- 
try. The *S 'pedate dcgl Jnnocenti at Florence was found- 
ed in 133G; here special means are taken to identify 
each child by securely fastening a leaden badge, 
stamped with a certain number, around the neck. The 
use of tokens of some sort, attached to the person or 
clothing of the child, for the purpose of identification, 
is not uncommon in the history of other hospitals. 
There are many other foundling hospitals in Italy to 
provide for the. numerous foundlings, for whom it is 
stated that Naples makes the best provision (1859). 
The Hospice das Enfans Tronvis at Paris was founded 
in 1G40 by Vincent de Paul. In this, as w*ell as many 
others in France, in order to secure secrecy in deposit- 
ing the child, a turning-box (tour') is provided, in 
which the child is placed, and a bell rung for its re- 


' moral without the person who brought it being seen. 

' A decree in 1811 ordered that such boxes should be 
provided for all the French foundling hospitals, but, 
owing to a conviction that the great increase in the 
number of foundlings since that time was due largely 
to the tours , the}' w'ere retained in 185G in only G5 of 
the 141 hospitals then existing in France. In lb5G the 
number of foundlings in France was estimated at 
120,000 under 12 years of age, when the administrative 
control ceases ; and GO, 000 to 70,000 between the apes 
of 12 and 21. The proportion of foundlings to popula- 
tion was 1 to 353; to births, 1 to 39; the annual num- 
ber, 25,000 to 30,000, of whom nine tenths were illegit- 
imate. The average life of the foundlings w*as only 4 
years ; the mortality 52 per cent, the first year, and 78 
per cent, up to 12 years ; while the general average 
for the community was only 50 per cent, up to 21 years. 
The male foundlings constituted 13 per cent, of the 
convicts and prisoners, and the female one fifth of the 
prostitutes in that country. Foundling hospitals are 
numerous in Belgium, where the number of abandoned 
children was estimated in 1859 to be 1 to 18 births. 
In 182G there were only two foundling hospitals in 
Holland; that of Amsterdam receives about 3000 chil- 
dren annually. There is a well-managed one in Vi- 
enna, founded in 1784 by Joseph II, and others in the 
chief cities of the Austrian empire, but the system of 
maintaining such institutions is said to be no longer 
regarded with favor in Germany. In 8pain the num- 
ber may be reckoned at GO to 70, with some 13,000 
foundlings, with larger proportional numbers for Port- 
ugal. The great hospitals of Moscow* and St. Peters- 
burg are said to be w*ell managed under strict govern- 
mental supervision, to which annually great numbers 
of children are sent from various parts of the Russian 
empire, very many of which die on the way. The 
children are, it is said, carefully educated, those of su- 
perior promise specially so ; and many of them become 
useful, the females as governesses, teachers, etc., and 
the males as engineers and mechanics. Recruits for 
the army and navy are also supplied from these hospi- 
tals. Foundling hospitals are numerous in Sweden, 
where the average of illegitimate births is said to be 
large. 1 to 11 in the country, and 1 to 2 in Stockholm. 
Norway has fewer, and also a less proportion of ille- 
gitimate children. The foundling hospital in London 
I was established in 1739 through the efforts of captain 
Thomas Coram, but not opened fully until 175G, from 
which time to 17G0, 4 years, 34,934 children were re- 
ceived into it, hut only 4400 lived to be apprenticed, or 
30 per cent. In view* of this frightful mortality, and 
the abuses in the matter of admission, and the difficul- 
ty of correcting them or adequately providing against 
their recurrence, Parliament withdrew its grant of pub- 
lic funds, and the institution “ceased to be a receptacle 
for foundlings/’ and was made a hospital for poor ille- 
gitimate children whose mothers are known, and chil- 
dren of soldiers and sailors killed in the service of 
their country. One w'as also established in Dublin in 
1730, in which the mortality is said to have been even 
greater than in London. The average yearly admis- 
sions from 1805-1825 were about 2000. A foundling 
hospital has been established in Canton, but had not, 
up to 1859, much influence in preventing infanticide. 
The most important ones in America are those in the 
city of Mexico and Rio Janeiro. There arc no found- 
ling hospitals in the F T nited States where provision is 
made for foundlings in common with other objects of 
public or private charity, and the number of such chil- 
dren is comparatively small. Whether such institu- 
tions may or may not have proved beneficent under 
the conditions of ancient or mediaeval society, we can- 
not at this day determine, but the trial of them as parts 
of the systems’ of the charitable and philanthropic 
agencies of modern times, either as controlled and sup- 
ported in whole or part by the state, or as left to the 
care and direction of private benevolence, presents re- 


FOUNTAIN 


631 


FOUNTAIN 


suits, we think, contrary to the expectations of their 
founders; and the general tendency of opinion, espe- 
cially in Protestant countries, is against their useful- 
ness as means for th.» attainment of the desired ends. 
Granting that they may have some effect in diminish- 
ing the frequency of direct infanticide (which, how- 
ever, their statistics do not prove), the}’- certainly tend 
to increase the number of children abandoned by their 
parents, while the frightful mortality connected with 
them would seem to demonstrate that there can be no 
actual saving of hum -in life through such establish- 
ments. We believe that vastly more children have 
prematurely died from causes inseparably connected 
with their transmission to and treatment in these hos- 
pitals than would have been destroyed outright by 
the parents from the same motives. Statistics seem 
clearly to show that they tend to foster licentiousness, 
increase the number of illegitimate births, and relax 
morals. In reviewing all the facts, the language of 
the author of the article Medical Jurisprudence, in the 
Enryc'op . Britannica , xiv, 414, 8th ed.), seems hardly 
too strong: ‘‘Foundling hospitals, from the mortality 
in them, even under the best management, sefcm to be 
amongst the most pestilent institutions of mistaken 
benevolence.” — Xew Amer. Cyclop, vii, 634-640 ; Beck- 
mann, History of Inventions, ii, 434-449 (Bolin’s ed.) ; 
Cassei’s Magazine, i, 123-4 ; Knight, Popular History 
of England, vii, 118-19 ; Chambers, Encyclopedia, s. v. ; 
Encycltp. Britannica , s. v. ; Guerry, Statist tone Morale 
eh la France', Benoiston de Chateaunenf, Considera- 
tions sur I s Enfans-trouves dans les principally Hats de 
V Europe. (J.W. M.) 

Fountain, the rendering in the A. V. of the fol- 
lowing Hebrew terms: 1. Properly and usually 
a yin (lit. the eye), so called from flowing (Gesenius, 
Thes. Ileb. p. 1017), a natural source of living water. 
See Ex-. 2. Likewise mayan (from the same 

root), a well- watered place (Psa. lxxxiv, 6, “well”); 
also a single spring (as rendered in Psa. lxxxvii, 7 ; 
civ, 10) of running water (Lev. xi, 36; Josh, xv, 9 ; 1 
Kings xviii, 5; 2 Chron. xxxii, 4; Psa. lxxiv, 35; 
cxiv, 8; Prov. v, 16; viii, 24; xxv, 26; Cant, iv, 12, 
15; Isa. xli, 18; Hos. xiii, 15; Joel iii, 18); spoken 
of the tide or influx of the sea (Gen. vii, 11 ; viii, 2). 
Its force and meaning are unfortunately sometimes 
obscured by the rendering in the A. V., “well,” as in 
Exod. xv, 27 ; in Elim “ were twelve wells of water 
that is, not artificial wells, but natural fountains , as 
still seen in wady Ghurundel (Bartlett’s Forty Days 
in the Desert, p. 43). These two words, on the con- 
trary, like the corresponding Greek Tnjyij, always 
denote a stream of “living” or constantly-running 
water, in opposition to standing or stagnant pools, 
whether it issues immediately from the ground or from 
the bottom of a well. See Aix. 3. ;.*"2*2, mabbu'a 
(so called from gushing or bubbling forth), a native 
rill (tig. of the vitil flow, Eccl. xii, 6; elsewhere liter- 
ally a “spring” in general, Isa. xxxv, 7; xlix, 10). 
4. nialcor' (so called from having been opened 

by digging ), an artificial source of flowing water, used 
both literally and figuratively, but mostly in such 
phrases as “fountain of life” (Prov. xiii, 14), “foun- 
tain of wisdom” (xviii, 4), etc, ; occasionally rendered 
“spring,” “well,” etc. 5. Improperly “T2, bor , or 
ba'yir (Jer. vi, 7), which designates only a pit or 
standing water. See Well. The idea of a fountain 
is also implied in the phrase N2‘ , '2, motsei ma'- 
yim, or going forth of waters (“spring,” 2 Kings ii, 21 ; 
Psa. evii, 33, 35; Isa. xli, 18; 1 viii, 11; “course,” 2 
Chron. xxxii, 30) ; as likewise in gal (from its rolU 
ing down the water), or nSit, gullah' , a purling stream 
or overflowing fountain (“spring,” Cant, iv, 12 ; Josh, 
xv, 19; Judg. i, 15). See Topographical Terms. 

Among the attractive features presented by the 


I Land of Promise to the nation migrating from Egypt 
by way of the desert, none would be more striking 
than the natural gush of waters from the ground. In- 
stead of watering his field or garden, as in Egypt, 
i “with his foot” (Shaw, Travels, p. 408), the Hebrew 
cultivator was taught to look forward to a land “drink- 
ing water of the rain of heaven, a land of brooks of 
water, of fountains and depths springing from valleys 
and hills” (Dent, viii, 7; xi, 11). in the desert of 
I Sinai, “the few living, perhaps perennial springs,” 
by the fact of their rarity, assume an importance hard- 
ly to be understood in moister climates, and more than 
justify a poetical expression of national rejoicing over 
the discovery of one (Numb, xxi, 17). But the springs 
of Palestine, though short-lived, are remarkable for 
their abundance and beauty, especially those which 
fall into the Jordan and its lakes throughout its whole 
course (Stanley, Palest, p. 17, 122, 123, 295, 373, 509; 
Bnrckliardt, Syria, p. 344). The spring or fountain 
] of living water, the “eve” of the landscape (see No. 1), 
is distinguished in all Oriental languages from the ar- 
tificially sunk and enclosed well (Stanlej r , p. 509). Its 
importance is implied by the number of topographical 
names compounded with En or (Arab.) Ain: En-gedi, 
Ain-july, “ spring of the gazelle,” may serve as a strik- 
ing instance (1 Sam. xxiii, 29; see Reland, p. 763; 
Robinson, i, 504; Stanley, App. § 50). Fountains are 
much more rare on the eastern side of the Jordan than 
on the western. There are a few among the moun- 
tains of Gilead; but in the great plateaus of Moab on 
the south, and Bashan on the north, they are almost 
unknown. This arises in part from the physical struc- 
ture of the country, and in part from the dryness of 
the climate. Huge cisterns and tanks were construct- 
ed to supply the want of fountains. See Cistern. 
Some of the fountains of Palestine are of great size. 
All the perennial rivers and streams in the country 
have their sources in fountains, and draw compara- 
tively little strength from surface water. Such are 
the fountains of the Jordan at Dan and Banias ; of the 
Abana at Fijeli and Zebcdauy ; of the Leonles at Chal- 
cis and Baalbek; of the Orontes at Ain and Lebweh; 
of the Adonis at Afka, etc. Palestine is a country of 
mountains and hills, and it abounds in fountains of 
lesser note. The murmur of their waters is heard in 
every dell, and the luxuriant foliage which surrounds 
them is seen on every plain. For a good classifica- 
tion of these natural springs, see Robinson’s Physical 
Geog. of Palestine, p. 238 sq. ; and for descriptions of 
many of them, see Tristram’s Lanel of Israel , and 
Sepp’s lleilige Land. 

Advantage was taken of these fountains to supply 
some of the great cities of Palestine with water. 
Hence, in Oriental cities generally, public fountains are 
frequent (Poole, Englishw. in Eg. i, 180). Perhaps the 
most remarkable works of this kind are at Tyre, where 



Fountain near Beyn.it. 



FOUNTAIN 


G32 


FOUQUET 


several copious springs were surrounded with massive 
walls, so as to raise the water to a sufficient height. 
Aqueducts, supported on arches, then conveyed it to 
the city (Porter, II an db. for Syria and Pal. p. 142, 555, 
390). One of less extent conveyed an abundant sup- 
ply to Damascus from the great fountain at Fijeh. 
Hence no Eastern city is so well supplied with water 
as Damascus ( Early Trav. p. 291). At Bevrut there 
is an ancient aqueduct that brings water from a source 
at least twenty miles distant, and two thousand feet 
above the level of the sea (Thomson, Land and Book, 
i, 48). An aqueduct some ten miles in length brought 
water to Jerusalem from a fountain near Solomon’s 
Pools by subterranean channels. In these may per- 
haps be found the “sealed fountain” of Cant, iv, 12 
(Hasselquist, p. 145; Maundrell, Early Trav. p. 457). 
Traces of fountains at Jerusalem may probably be 
found in the names En-Rogel (2 Sam. xvii, 17), the 
“Dragon-well” or fountain, and the “gate of the 
fountain” (Neh. ii, 13, 14). But Jerusalem, though 
mainly dependent for its supply of water upon its rain- 
water cisterns, appears from recent inquiries to have 
possessed either more than one perennial spring, or 
one issuing by more than one outlet (see Robinson, i, 
343, 345; Williams, Holy City , ii, 458, 4G8 ; comp. Ezek. 
xlvii, 1, 12). With this agree the “fons perennis 
aqure” of Tacitus (Hist, v, 12), and the vOurwv dvitc- 
\ti7rrof cvGTaaiQ of Aristeas (Josephus, ii, 112, edit. 
Havercamp; compare Raumer, p. 298 ; Kitto, Physical 
Geoyr. p. 412, 415). See Jerusalem. In the towers 
built by llerod, Josephus says there were cisterns with 
Xa\icov<yy))yaTa through which water was poured forth 
(War, v, 4, 4): these may have been statues or figures 
containing spouts for water after Roman models (Plin. 
Epist. v, G; Hist. Xat. xxxvi, 15, 121). The fountain 
of Nazareth bears a traditional antiquity, to which it 
has probably good derivative, if not actual claim (Rob- 
erts, Views in Palestine, i, 21, 29, 33; Fisher, Views in 
Syria , i, 31; iii, 44). See Nazareth. 



Fountain at Nazareth. 

The volcanic agency which has operated so power- 
fully in Palestine has from very early times given 
tokens of its working in the warm springs which are 
found near the Sea of Galilee and the Dead Sea. 

1 liese have been famous from time immemorial for 
their medicinal properties (Pliny, Hist. Xaf. v, 15; 
Lightfoot, Opp. ii, 224). They are confined to the vol- 
canic valley of the Jordan, and all are strongly impreg- 
nated with sulphur. The temperature of that of Tibe- 
rias is 144° Fahr. (Porter, Handbook for Syr. and Pal. 
p. 311, 320, 423). One of the most celebrated of these 
was Callirrhoe, mentioned by Josephus as a place re- 
sorted to bv Herod in his last illness (War, i, 33, 5 ; 
Kitto, Phys. Geoyr. of Pal. p. 120, 121 ; Stanley, p. 285). 
II is son Philip built the town, which he named Tibe- 
rias (the Hamath of Josh, xix, 35), at the sulphureous I 


hot springs on the south of the Sea of Galilee (Joseph. 
Ant. xviii, 2, 3 ; Hasselquist, Travels, App. p. 283 ; Kit- 
to, p. 114 ; Burckhardt, Syria, p. 328, 330). Other ho* 
springs are found at seven miles’ distance from Tibe- 
rias, and at Omkeis or Amathe, near Gadara (Reland, 
p. 775; Burckhardt, p. 27G, 277; Kitto, p. 110, 118). 
See Callirrhoe. 

From the value of such supplies of water in arid, 
countries, fountains figure much in the poetry of the 
East as the natural images of perennial blessing* of 
various kinds. In the Scriptures fountains are made 
the symbols -of refreshment to the weary, and also de- 
note the perpetuity and inexhaustible nature of the 
spiritual comforts which God imparts to his people, 
whether by t lie influences of the Spirit, or through the 
ordinances of public worship. There are also various 
texts in which children, or an extended posterity, are, 
by a beautifully-apt image, described as a fountain, 
and the fat her' or progenitor as the source or spring 
from which that fountain flows (Deut. xxxiii, 28 ; Psa. 
lxviii, 2G; Prov. v, 1G, 18; xiii, 14, etc.). See We- 
mvss, Symbol. Diet. s. v. — ■ Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v # 
See Water. 

The Fountain-gate (*p?il sha'ar hi- A 'yin; 

Sept. 7 -v\i) roc ’Air or aivtlv, Vulg. porta fontis; A. 
V. “gate of the fountain”) at Jerusalem was in the 
first or old wall, along the Valley of Ilinnom, south 
of the Dung-gate, and adjoining the Pool of Siloam 
(from which it doubtless derived its name), at the 
mouth of the Tyropoeon (Strong’s Harm, and Expos . 
Append, p. 11). See Jerusalem. 

Fouquere, Dom Antoine-Michel, a learned Ben- 
edictine of the Congregation of St.jMaur, was born at 
Chateauroux in 1G41, and died at Mcaux Nov. 3, 1709. 
He was made teacher of rhetoric in the monastery of 
St. Pierre de Mauriac, where he acquired the reputation 
of being an excellent professor, especially of Greek. 
In 1G78 he was appointed superior of his convent, and 
filled the post for fifteen years, after which he retired 
to the abbey of St. Faron at Meaux, where' he died. 
His works are, (1) a Latin translation of a work of 
Dionysius, patriarch of Constantinople, on points of 
controversy between the Calvinists and Roman Cath- 
olics, published, together with original text, under the 
title of Dionysii patriarchs Const ant bupolilani super 
Cahinistarum erroribus ac reali imprimis pra.sentia Re- 
spoJisio ; and with the preceding, (2) a Latin transla- 
tion of the acts of the council held at Jerusalem A.D. 
1072, under the title of Synodus Betleemetica pro reali 
prccsentia anno 1072 celeb rata, yrcece et lat. (Paris, 1G7G, 
8vo). (By the advice of Francois Combefis and A Ar- 
nauld, these translations were revised and corrected, 
and a new edition published in 1G78, the latter under 
the title of Synodus Hierosolymitanapro reali presentin'). 
(3) Under the pseiulonyme of Tamaguinus, Celebris his- 
toria Monothclitarum atqne Honor'd controversia scruti- 
niis octo comprehensa (Paris, 1G78, 8vo), a work which 
excited a good deal of interest. — Iloefer, Nouv. Bioy. 
Generate, xviii, 309-10. (J. W. M.) 

Fouquet, Jean-Fran^ois, a French Jesuit, was 
sent as a missionary to Central Asia in the early part 
of the 18th century. He made himself acquainted with 
the language, idioms, and the theogony of the Celes- 
tial Empire, and was struck with their points of resem- 
blance not only to Christian doctrine, but especially 
to the prophecies contained in the holy Scriptures. 
According to him, the Chou-King (sacred hook of 
Confucius) is only a paraphrase of Genesis, and the 
praises addressed to Wen-wang and to Tcheou-Koung 
in the Chi-King are only hymns in honor of the Mes- 
siah. One can see how much this ingenious interpre- 
tation would aid in proselyting the Chinese, who thus 
had only to change the names of their deities to claim 
priority in holding the doctrines of revelation over 
Christians themselves. Strict theologians attacked 
his opinions and censured his means of conversion; 


FOURIER 


633 


FOWL 


nevertheless, on his return to Rome in 1720, pope Clem- ' 
ent XI made him bishop of Eleutheropolis. He was 
recommended by the Academy of Inscriptions as the 
only person capable of criticising Fourmont’s Chinese 
Grammar. His Tabula Chronologica historian isinicee, 
1729 (on 3 sheets), contains a list of the Chinese mon- 
archs, and the chief events of their reign, and a com- 
plete series of the Nianhao , or names of years (new edi- 
tion by Seutter, Augsburg, 1740). lie wrote also a let- 
ter to the duke de La Force, and inserted in tom. v of 
Lctires edifiantes , which furnishes curious details in re- 
gard to the Chinese army and the bonzes. — Iloefer, 
Nouv. Biog . Generate , xviii, 332. (J. S. M.) 

Fourier, Francois Charles Marie, a philo- 
sophical socialist, was born at Bcsan^on April 7, 1772. 
II is father designed him for trade, but he never took 
to it willingly. In 3790 he entered the French army, 
but in 1798 he left it and entered a mercantile house 
at Marseilles. II is mind seems to have been turned 
about this time to social questions by the scarcity 
of food and the terrible sufferings of the poor. The 
relations of capital to labor, and similar social prob- 
lems, occupied his mind intensely for several years, 
and in 3808 he issued his first book, entitled Theoiie 
des Qualre Mouvements et ties Destinies G enemies. "It 
is the strangest, most mystical, and most startling of 
all his works, though merely given as a general an- 
nouncement of his theory. Surprise and wonder were 
the onI} r effects which it produced on those’ who read 
it, and the few public writers who reviewed it.” In 
1821 he removed to Paris, in order to publish his writ- 
ings, and he lived there, with some interruptions, to 
his death, Oct. 10, 1837. Ilis principal works arc Thi- 
orie ties Quatres Mouvements et des Destinies Generates 
(1808, Svo) : — Traite de V Association Domestigue Agri- 
cole (1822, 2 vols. 8vo) : — he Nouveau Monde, Industriel 
ct Sod'taire (1829) ; a Livrel d'cnmonce (1830) : — Pieges 
(t Chariot anisine des deux Stctes St. Simon et Owen 
(1831): — La Fansse Industrie , morcelie , repugnante , 
mensongere , et I Antidote,! Industrie naiurelle, combiner, 
attrayante. Ilis (Euvres completes were published at 
Paris in G vols. (1840-4G). The Passions of the Human 
Sold, translated by Morell, was published in London in 
1853 (2 vols. Svo). “ Ilis philosophy may be divided 
into science and praxis, or his psychological and on- 
tological theory and its application in his societary 
system. The first comprises what he styles passional 
attraction, the last its application to society in indus- 
trial association. Ilis psychology is confined to an 
analysis of the affections, from which he infers that 
the Newtonian principle of attraction is equally appli- 
cable to the social and mental worlds, and that society 
should be moulded in accordance with the diversity 
and intensity of individual attractions. Unity in di- 
versity and harmony in contrast is what he professes 
to achieve in his new social system. This principle 
of passional attraction is regarded by Fourier as his 
grand discovery, which had been culpably neglected 
and overlooked by past philosophers” (Tennemann, 
Hist. Philos. § 435). Among the followers of Fourier 
arc counted Considerant, Pompery, Lemovn, llenne- 
quin, Jules Lechcvalier, and Transen. Several peri- 
odicals, mostly short-lived, have been established for 
the defence of Fourierism, as he Nouveau Monde, Le 
Phalanst'ere , La Phalange, La Democratic Pacifique. 
Several attempts to carry out the view of Fourier were 
made in France, the United States, and Brazil, but all 
failed. See Gamond, Fourier and his System (London, 
1842, 8vo) ; Doherty, False Association, with Memoir 
of Fourier (London, 3841, 8vo) ; Christian Examiner, 
xxxvi, 57 ; Methodist Quarterly Rev. v, 545. Sec Com- 
munism. 

Fourier, Pierre, of Mataiuconrt, a Roman Cath- 
olic religious reformer, was born at Mire (Lorraine) 
Nov. 30, 15G5, and died at Gray Dec. 9, 1040. He re- 
formed the regular canons of the congregation of St. 


Sauveur de Lorraine, and established the religieuses of 
the congregation of Notre Dame for the instruction of 
girls. He died in the odor of sanctity, and his name 
was placed on the list of the beatified at Rome Jan. 29, 
1730. See lives of him by Bedel (Paris, 1G45, Svo) and 
Friant (Nancy, 174G, 12mo).— Iloefer, Nouv. Bicg. Gen - 
irale, xviii, 344-5. (J. W. M.) 

Fourmont, Etienne (Stephen), a French Orien- 
talist, known as Fourmont the elder, to distinguish 
him from his brother, the abbe Fourmont, was born at 
1 1 erbelay , near Paris, June 23, 1G83, and died Dec. 19, 
1745. He was an earnest and indefatigable student, 
and, being endowed with an unusually quick and re- 
tentive memory, stored his mind with a vast amount 
of information in regard to the classic and Oriental 
languages and their literature. On the death of the 
abbe Galland in 1715, Fourmcnt succeeded him as 
professor of Arabic in the College of France and as 
member of the Academy of Inscriptions, and subse- 
quently became a member of the learned societies of 
Paris, Berlin, and London. Freret describes him as 
being of a gentle and cheerful disposition, wholly ab- 
sorbed in his labors, and possessed of little knowledge 
of men, but offensively vain of his knowledge. For a 
list of Fourmont’s numerous writings, published or in 
manuscript, see his life by De Guignes et Des llautes- 
Rayes (F?> tV Etienne Fourmont et Catalogue de ses Ou- 
trages) in the second edition of his Critical Reflections 
on Ancient History, and Catalogue des Ouvrages de M. 
Fourmont (Amst. 1731), which is said, however; to con- 
tain some works only projected and never completed. 
Besides Ills famous commentary on the Psalms and 
Hebrew poetry, we mention here only Mcditationes Sin- 
icee, complectens art em legemli lingua ■ Sinicec Charac- 
ter es (Paris, 1737, fob), which is the preliminary por- 
tion of the following, published separately: 1 Angina 
Sinarum manelarinicee hieroghphicev grammatica duplex , 
latine et cum characteribvs Sinensium (Paris, 1742, fob) : 
— Ri flexions sur VOrigine, V hist tire et la succession des 
anciens peuples, Ckaldiens, Hibrcnx, Phiniciens, Egyp- 
iiens, Grecs jusqu'au temps de Cyrus (Paris, 1735 and 
1747, 2 vols. 4to). — Iloefer, Nouv. Bug. Ginirale, xviii, 
354-3G5 ; Rose, New Genereil Biog. Did. vii, 427 ; Que- 
rard, La France litieraire. (J.AV. M.) 

Fowl is the rendering of the following Hcb. words 
in the Bible: 1. Usually C'T’ (oph, a flier), 7 rtrtivov, 
any winged animal, a generic term for the feathered 
race, frequently with the addition of "of the 

heavens.” 2. (ctyit, so called from rushing on 
its prej’- ; compare Jer. xii, 9, where it is spoken of a 
beast), a ravenous bird (Job xxviii, 7); as an emblem 
of a warlike king (Isa. xlvi, 11); collect, for birds of 
prey (Gen. xv, 11; Isa. xviii, G; Ezek. xxxix, 4); 
like upvtov, as a vulture (Rev. xviii, 2; xix, 17, 21); 
translated fowl in Gen. xv, 11; Job xxviii, 7; Isa. 
xviii, G. 3. ( tsippo r , so called from it£ twitter, 

ing ; Chald. ISIS, Dan. iv, 9, 11, 38, 30), a small bird, 
spec, a sparrow (Psa. lxxxiv, 4; cii, 8; Prov. xxvi, 
2; xxvii, 8; Job xl, 29; Ecelcs. xii, G, etc.), or simi- 
lar small birds (Psa. xi, 1 : civ, 17 ; cxxiv, 7 : as 
caught by the fowler, Piov. vi, 5: vii, 23; Amos iii, 
5, etc.; also collect., birds of any kind, Gen. xv, 10; 
Lev. xiv, 4-53 ; Dent, iv, 17 ; Psa. viii, 9 ; exlviii, 10, 
etc. ; and even a bird of prey, Ezek. xxxix, 4), occa- 
sionally rendered by swallow and sparrow. In Nch. 
v, 18, the word seems to have the special sense which 
“fowl” has with us, as it is enumerated among the 
viands provided for Nehemiali’s table. 4. 
(Jbarbnriin), “ fatted foirls," 1 Kings iv, 23, as provi- 
ded for the table of Solomon, where Kimchi under- 
stands capons , hut Gesenius, with the Jerus. Targuin, 
geese, so called from the pureness and whiteness of 
their plumage. The ancient Egyptians had spacious 
poultry-yards, set apart for keeping geese and other 


FOWL 


C34 


FOWLER 


wild-fowl, which they fattened for the table ; and tlieir 
poulterers bestowed especial care upon the geese (Wil- 
kinson, i, 215 ; ii, 174, abridgm.). See Fatted Fowl. 


kuche, De gallis et gallinis ad arum Jt hovce nonfractis , 
Hint. 1741). The Talmud mentions geese (TJX, Choi. 
xii, 1 ; L’ekor . vii, 4), a well-known article of luxury 



Geese brought and numbered. British Museum— from Thebes. 

TV t A scribe 2 Men brin-nnw eg-»s in baskets. 3. One of the feeders of geese. 4. Table, on which are baskets containing eggs and flowers. 5. The 
scribe reading the aeconnt before the steward or master of the estate, written on a papyrus he holds in his hands. 6. Man bringing the goslings in bas- 
kets. 7. The feeders of the geese doing obeisance ; others seated in an attitude of respect ; and S, bowing as lie brings up the geese with their young, 
9. A large flock of geese brought by others, 10, 1 1, 12. 


In the X. T. the word translated “fowls” is most 
frequently rd Trereti'u, which comprehends all kinds 
of birds (including ravens , Luke xii, 24); but in Ilev. 
xix, 17-21, where the context shows that birds of prey 
arc meant, the Greek is rd diyvta. The same distinc- 
tion is observed in the apocryphal writings : comp. Ju- 
dith xi, 7 ; Ecclus. xvii, 4 ; xliii, 1 ', with 2 Mace, xv, 
33. See Cock; Sparrow. 

The following statements are from Winer, ii, GG3. 
Clean birds (rnh’J T122“b3, Deut. xiv, 11, 20), i. e. 
all not named in Lev. xi, 13-10; Dent, xiv, 12-18, 
were (as well as their eggs, G^S^S) used for food 
(Luke xi, 12), e. g. quails (q. v.), chickens, doves, also 
wild-fowl ; hence bird-catching was very common (Psa. 
exxiv, 7; Amos iii, 5; IIos. v. 1; vii, 12, etc.), for 
which purpose nets, traps, and stool-birds (.Ter. v, 27 ; 
Ecclus. xi, 31 [37]) were used (see Gesen. Thes. p. G85). 
See Fowler. In robbing a nest of its eggs or young, 
however, the mother-bird must be allowed to escape 
(Deut. xxii, G sq. ; see Michaclis, Syntagm. Comm, ii, 
89 sq. ; J [os. 1 lech', iii, 181 sq.), a prescription founded 
not only on motives of humanity (comp. Lev. xxii, 28; 
yet see lleumann, De legis dir. sensu , Gott. 1748; also 
in his \ovti Sylloge Disscrtatt. p. 282 *sq.) ; although 
the Talmudists (Mishna, Chollin , xii, 2) refer this only 
to clean birds, and make many nice distinctions in the 
matter, with various penalties attached ( Maccoth , iii, 
4). Birds were not regularly offered in sacriliee, ex- 
cept in commutation for some costlier victim (Lev. i, 
15-17 ; compare Mishna, Kinnim. v, 11). See Dove. 
The bird was lirst brought to the altar, where the 
priest (with his nail) nipped off the head, or rather 
cracked (p2G) the neck, so that it still hung to the 
bird (Lev. v, 8) ; he then squeezed out the blood (suf- 
ficient, at least, in quantity for sprinkling), and finally 
threw the body into the fire, but without the crop, 
which (with its contents and the offal) was separately 
(PIG) thrown into the ash-heap under the altar. Be- 
fore the Uesh was committed to the flames, however, a 
folding back or breaking of the wings (*"*2:“2 “GIG) 
is proscribed, a symbol of which the meaning is not 
clear (see Dassov, De ave ungue secta, Yiteb. 1G97 ; Es- 


with modern Jews. The Hebrews Mere accustomed 
to play with parlor-birds, especially children (Job xl, 
29 [24] ; Baruch iii, 17 ; comp. Oat nil. ii, 1 sq. ; Plant. 
Capt. v, 4, 5). Of that form of divination which drew 
omens from the appearance or flight of birds (Muller, 
Etrusk. ii, 187 sq.), an example occurs in the history 
of the Herodian family (Josephus, Ant. xix, 8, 2). See 
Soothsayer. The fable of the phoenix (Pliny, x, 2 ; 
Ovid, Met. xv, 392 sq. ; comp. Llerod. ii, 73) is thought 
by some (also Ewald) to be alluded to in Job xxix, 18 
(see Gesenins, Thes. II eb. p. 453 sq.). See generally 
Tenzel, in the Thesuur. theol. philvl. i, 559 sq. Comp. 
Bird. 

Fowler (some form of the verb yakash' , to 

lay snares; thus rendered in Psa. xei, 3; exxiv, 7 ; 
Trov. vi, 5; Jer. v, 2G; IIos. ix, 8). The act of tak- 




FOWLER 


635 


FOWLER 


ing birds by means of nets, snares, decoys, etc., is fre- 
quently alluded to in Scripture, mostly in a figurative 
and moral way (Pro v. vii, 23 ; Keel, ix, 12; Ezek. xvii, 
20, etc.). The Egyptian paintings and sculptures ex- 
hibit various scenes of hunting and fowling; there is 
scarcely any process now followed which was not 
known in very ancient times. The ancients had not 
only traps, nets, and springs, but also bird-lime smeared 
upon the twigs ; they used likewise stalking-horses, 
setting-dogs, bird-calls, etc. The Egyptian paintings 
exhibit birds shot with arrows while upon the wing by 
peasants, and in others they arc shown as knocked 
down by amateur sportsmen with sticks thrown at 
them as they perched or flew in the thickets or marsh- 
es. Game of all kinds was a favorite food of the Egyp- 
tians, and the capture of birds was a lucrative occupa- 
tion to some and an amusement to others. Persons 
engaged in this act are represented as accompanied hv 
their families in the boat, and often by a favorite cat 
(q. v.). See Wilkinson, Anc. Eg. i, 234 sq. (abridgm.). 
The Egyptians were also well skilled in preserving 
and preparing for the table the game thus secured, as 
well as poultry reared by domestication (ib. ii, 183 sq.). 
See Patted Fowl. 


on or in the ground (Psa. cxl, G; cxlii, 4). The form 
of this springe, or trap net, appears from two passages 
(Amos iii, 5, and Psa. Ixix, 23). It was in two parts, 
which, when set, were spread out upon the ground, and 
slightly fastened with a stick (trap-stick), so that, as 
soon as a bird or beast touched the stick, the parts flew 
up and inclosed the bird in the net, or caught the foot 
of the animal. See Snake. 

By a humane as well as wise regulation, Moses for- 
bade any one finding a bird’s nest to take also the dam 
with the eggs or young (Dent, xxii, G, 7), lest the spe- 
cies should become exterminated (Kitto, Pictorial Bi- 
ble, , ad loc.). See Bird. 

Fowler, Christopher, an eminent Puritan di- 
vine, was born at Marlboiougli in 1G11, and died in 
1G7G. He was educated at Oxford, and took orders 
first in the English Church, but became a Presbyterian 
in 1G41, and signalized bis zeal by the earnestness of 
bis preaching. He was made vicar of St. Mary's, 
Beading, but lost the post at the Restoration. Wood’s 
prejudices doubtless influenced his view ef Fowler, 
whom he calls “a conceited and fantastical Presbyte- 
rian.” He wrote, 1. Dicmomum Meridianum (1G55, 
pt. i, 4to; 1G5G, pt. ii, 4to): — 2. Anti-Christian Bias- 


'S o d 



Birds of various kinds abound, and no doubt abound- 
ed in ancient times, in Palestine. Stanley speaks of 
“countless birds of all kinds, aquatic fowls by the lake 
side, partridges and pigeons hovering, as on the Nile 
bank, over the rich plains of Gennesaret” {Sinai and ' 
Palestine , p. 427). The capture of these for the table 
or other uses would, we might expect, form the em- 
ployment of many persons, and lead to the adoption of 
various methods to effect it. See Palestine. 

We read of the “snare” M2, pack (Psa. xci, 3; 
cxxiv, 7 ; Hos. ix, 8), and of the “ net” T'Z re sheik 
(Prov. i, 17 ; Hos. vii, 11); “of the fowler,” ujD'P or 
— snarer. In Hos. v, 1, both net and snare are 
mentioned together. The niokesli (■L‘£"'2) is used sy- 
nonymously with the pack in Amos iii, 5. This was 
employed for taking either beasts or birds. It was a 
trap set in the path (Prov. vii, 23 ; xxii, 5), or hidden 


pkemies , etc. (1G55, 4to): — 3. Answer to Thomas Speed, 
a Qiiaker (1G5G), in which Simon Ford assisted him: 
— 4. Sermons (1G75, 4to) ; and some occasional sermons. 
— Rose, New Gen . Biog. Diet, vii, 428 ; Allibone, Diet, 
of Authors, s. v. (J.W. M.) 

Fowler, Edward, bishop of Gloucester, was born 
in 1G32 at Wcsterleigh, in Gloucestershire, where his 
father was minister. He was educated at Corpus 
Christi College, but, removing to Cambridge, he took 
his master’s degree as a member of Trinity College, 
and, returning to Oxford, was incorporated in the 
same degree July 5, 1G5G. About the same time he 
became chaplain to Arabella, countess dowager of 
Kent, who presented him to the rectory of Northill, in 
Bedfordshire. As he had been brought up among the 
Puritans, he at first objected to conformity with the 
Church of England, but became afterwards one of its 
greatest ornaments. In 1G81 he was made vicar of 


FOWLER 


G3G 


FOX 


St. Giles’s, Cripplegate, when he took his degree of 
D.I). He was an able defender of Protestantism, and 
appears as the second of the London clergy who re- 
fused to read James IPs declaration for liberty of con- 
science in 1088. He was rewarded for his eminent 
services in the cause of religion, and in the promotion 
of the revolution, by being made in 1G91 bishop of 
Gloucester. He died at Chelsea in 1714. lie belonged 
to the moderate or latitudinarian school of divines. His 
writings are, The Principles and Practice of Latitudi- 
narians (so called) d fended (London, 1671, 8vo) : — The 
Design of Christianity (Load. 1676, 8vo; pub. in Wat- 
son's Tracts , vol. vi). This work was attacked by 
Bunyan (to whom Fowler replied in a tract entitled 
Dirt wiped out , 1672, 4to) : — Libcrlas Evangelica (1680, 
8vo); various tracts against Popery, two on the Trin- 
ity, and a number of sermons . — Biographici Britannica, 
s. v. ; Hook, Peeks. Biog. v, 164; Orme, L 'fe of Bax- 
ter, ii, 238. 

Fowler, Orin, a Congregational minister, was 
born July 29, 1791, in Lebanon, Conn. lie graduated 
at Yale 1815, entered the ministry Oct. 14, 1817, and 
in June, 1818, started as missionary to the Western 
States, through which he traveled a } r ear, and was or- 
dained pastor in Plainfield, Conn., March 1, 1820, where 
he remained eleven years, when he was dismissed, and 
July 7, 1831, became pastor in Fall Liver. He was 
elected to the Senate of lihode Island in 1847, and in 
1848 to the L T . S. Senate, in which office he remain- 
ed until his death, Sept. 3, 1852. Mr. Fowler pub- 
lished a Disquisition on the Erils attending the Use of 
Tobacco (1833) : — Lectures on the Mode and Subjects of 
Baptism (1835 ): — History of Fall River (1841): — Pa- 
pers on the Boundary (1847), a sermon, several speech- 
es in Congress, etc. — Sprague, Annals, ii, C48. 

Fowles, James II., a minister of the Protestant 
Episcopal Church, was born at Nassau, N. P., in 1812, 
and died in 1854. He graduated at Yale College in 
1831, and about 1843 was licensed to preach by the 
Presbytery of New York, but afterwards joined the 
Protestant Episcopal Church, and was ordained by 
bishop Bowen, of South Carolina, in which state he 
labored until 1345, when he succeeded Dr. S. 11. Tvng 
as rector of the Church of the Epiphany, Philadelphia, 
where he remained until compelled by ill health to 
resign, only a few months before his death. lie edit- 
ed Goode's Better Covenant, etc., and The Convict Ship , 
for which he wrote introductions; and was the author 
of Protestant Episcopal Yieivs cf Baptism Explained 
and Defended (Philadel. 1846, 18mo): — Sermons (30) 
preached in the Church of the Epiphany , Philadelphia, 
preceded by a biographical sketch (Phila. 1855, 8vo).* 
— Allibone, Dictionary of Authors, s. v. (J. W. M.) 

Fox is the rendering in the A. Y. of ( shuaV , 

Sept. «\o7t//£, as in Matt, viii, 20; Luke ix, 58; xiii, 
32; Judg. xv, 4; Neh. iv, 3; Psa. lxiii, 10; Cant, ii, 
15; Lam. v, 18; Ezek. xiii, 4), a name derived, ac- 
cording to Bochart ( Ilieroz . ii, 190), from the coughing 
or yelping of that animal, but, according to Gesenius 
( Tha . Ileb. p. 1157), from its digging or burrowing un- 
der the ground. The latter remarks that jackals must 
be meant in Judg. xv, 4, since the fox is with great 
difficulty taken alive; and also in Psa. lxiii, 11, inas- 
much as foxes do not feed on dead bodies, w hich are a 
favorite repast for the jackal. There is also another 
word, ( iyim literally holders , occurs only in 

Isa. xiii, 32 ; xxxiv, 1 1 ; Jer. 1, 39, where it is render- 
ed “ wild beasts of the islands”), which seems to refer 
to the jackal, or some other species of the fox family. 
Fox is again the translation of «\<u iri)£ in Matt, viii, 
20; Luke ix, 5-8; xiii, 32; but here also the word in 
the original texts may appl}* generically to several 
species rather than to one only. See Animal. 

Fox is thus applied to t\\ r o or more species of the 
Canid r, though only strictly applicable in a systematic 
view to Taaleb, which is the Arabic name of a wild 


canine, probably the Syrian fox, Vulpes Thaleb or Ta- 
aleb of modern zoologists, and the only genuine spe- 
cies indigenous in Palestine. This animal is of the 



size of an English cur fox, and similarly formed ; but 
the ears are wider and longer, the fur in general 
ochry-rufous above, and whitish beneath : there is a 
faint black ring towards the tip of the tail, and the 
back of the ears are sooty, with bright fulvous edges. 
The species burrow's, is silent and solitary, extends 
eastward into Southern Persia, and is said to be found 
in Natolia. The Syrian Taaleb is reputed to be ver 3 r 
destructive in the vineyards, or, rather, a plunderer 
of ripe grapes ; but he is certainly less so than the 
jackal, whose ravages are carried on in troops, and 
with less fear of man. Ehrcnberg’s two species of 
Taaleb (one of w hich he takes to be the Anubis of an- 
cient Egypt, and Geoffroy’s Cauls Niloticus, the Abu 
Hossein of the Arabs) are nearly allied to, or varieties 
of the species, but residing in Egypt, and further to 
the south, where it seems they do not burrow'. The 
Egyptian Vulpes Niloticus, and doubtless the common 



Egyptian Dog-Fox. 

fox (I 7 , vulgaris'), are Palestine species. There is also 
the so-called Turkish fox ( Cynalopex Turcicus ) of Asia 
Minor, not unknown to the south as far as the Orontes, 
and therefore likely to be an occasional visitant at 
least of the woods of Libanus. This animal is one of 
an osculant group, with the general character of vul- 
pes, but having the pupils of the eyes less contractile 
in a vertical direction, and a gland on the base of the 
tail marked by a dark spot. There is, besides, one of a 
third group, namely, Thous anthns, or deeb of the Ar- 
abs, occasionally held to be the wolf of Scripture, be- 
cause it resembles the species in general appearance, 
though so far inferior in w’eight, size, and powers as 
not to be in the least dangerous, or likely to he the 
wolf of the Bible. The first two do not liowd, and the 
third is solitary and howls seldom ; but there is a 
fourth ( Cams Syriacus , Ehrenb. Mammal, ii) w'hich 
howls, is lower and smaller than a fox, has a long, ill- 
furnished tail, small ears, and a rufous-gray livery. 
This can hardly be the Cams aureus , or jnekal of Pal- 
estine, and certainly not the ygivmoQ of /Elian. The 
German naturalists seem not to have considered it 
identical with the common jackal (< Sacalius aureus) t 


FOX 


637 


FOX 


which is sufficiently common along the eoast, is emi- 
nently gregarious, offensive in smell ; howls intolera- 
bly in complete concert with all others within hearing; 
burrows ; is crepuscular and nocturnal, impudent, 
thievish ; penetrates into outhouses; ravages poultry- 
yards more ruinously than the fox ; feeds on game, 
lizards, locusts, insects, garbage, grapes ; and leaves 
not even the graves of man himself undisturbed. It 
is probable that Cants Syriacus is but a chryseus, or 
wild dog, belonging to the group of Dholes, well 
known in India, and, though closely allied to, distinct 
from, the jackal. Russell heard of four species of Ca- 
nidae at Aleppo, Emprich and Ehrenberg of four in 
Libanus, not identical with each other; nor are any 
of these clearly included in the thirteen species which 
the last-named waiters recognise in Egypt. They 
still omit, or are not cognizant of, wild dogs [see 
Dog], and likewise other wild species in Arabia and 
Persia; all, including foxes, having migratory habits, 
and therefore not unlikely to visit Palestine. Some 
of these may have accompanied the movements of the 
great invasions of antiquity, or the caravans, and be- 
come acclimated ; and, again, may have departed, or 
have been gradually extinguished by local circum- 
stances, such as the destruction of the forests or of the 
inhabitants, and the consequent reduction of the means 
of subsistence ; or, finally, the} 7 may have been extir- 
pated since the introduction of gunpowder. Ilassel- 
quist ( Travels , p. 184) says foxes are common in the 
stony country about llethlchcm, and near the Convent 
of St. John, where, about vintage time, they destroy 
all the vines unless they are strictly w'atched. Thom- 
son started up and chased one when passing over that 
part of the plain where Timnatli is believed to have 
been situated ( Land and Booh , ii, 340). That jackals 
and foxes were formerly very common in some parts 
of Palestine is evident from the names of places de- 
rived from these animals, as Hazar-Shual (Josh, xv, 
28), Shaal-bim (Judg. i, 35). *See Jackal. 

The fox is proverbially fond of grapes (Aristoph. 
Equit. 1076 sq. : Theocr. v, 112 sq. ; Nicand. Aleji- 
2 vharm. 185; Pined r. iv, 2; Galen, Alim. Facult . iii, 2), 
and a very destructive visitor to vineyards (Cant, ii, 
15). The proverbially cunning character of the fox 
is alluded to in Ezek. xiii, 4, where the prophets of Is- 
rael are said to be like foxes in the desert, and in Luke 
xiii, 22, 'where our Saviour calls Herod “that fox.” 
The fox’s habit of burrowing among ruins is refeired 
to in Neh. iv, 3, and Lam. v, 18 (see also Matt, viii, 20). 
(On Psa. Ixiii, 11, see Tausan. iv, 18, 4.) The Rab- 
binical waiters make frequent mention of the fox and 
his habits. In the Talmud it is said, “The fox docs 
not die from being under the earth ; he is used to it, 
and it does not hurt him.” And again, “ He has gain- 
ed as much as a fox in a ploughed field,” i. e. nothing. 
Another proverb relating to him is this : 

“ If the fox be at the rudder, 

Speak Him fairly, 4 My dear brother.’ ” 

Foxes are figured in hunting-scenes on the Egyptian 
monuments (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt , i, 224, abridgm.). 
See Ciiase. 

None of the usual explanations of the controverted 
passage in Judg. xv, 4, 5, relative to the foxes, jackals, 
or other canines which Samson employed to set fire to 
the corn of the Philistines is altogether satisfactory. 
First, taking Dr. Kennicott's proposed explanation of 
the ease ( Remarks on Select Passages in the 0. T ., Oxf. 
1787, p. 100), on the authority of seven Ileb. MSS., by 
changing E^b^TJ to E^EiT, thus reading handfids 
(comp, the Sept, at 1 Kings xx, 10), i. c. “sheaves” 
instead of “foxes,” and translating E2T, “end” instead 
of “tail,” the meaning then would be, that Samson 
merely connected three hundred shocks of corn, al- 
ready reaped, by hands or ends, and thus burned the 
whole. We admit that this, at first view, appears a 
rational explanation (see Hopkins, Plumb-line Papers , 


Auburn, 1862, p. 20 sq.) ; hut it should be observed 
that three hundred shocks of corn would not make two 
stacks, and therefore the result would be quite inade- 
quate, considered as a punishment or act of vengeance 
upon the Philistine population, then predominant over 
the greater part of Palestine ; and if we take shocks to 
mean corn-stacks, then it may be asked how, and for 
what object, were three hundred corn-stacks brought 
together in one place from so large a surface of coun- 
try. The task, in that hilly region, would have occu- 
pied all the cattle and vehicles for several months ; and 
then the corn could not have been thrashed out w ith- 
out making the whole population travel repeatedly, in 
order finally to reload the grain and take it to their 
threshing-floors. Nor will the verb njrb (“ caught”) 
bear the rendering thus required, for it properly means 
to ensnare , to take captive, and is specially applied to 
the act of catching animals (e. g. Amos iii, 5). (See, 
also, what an anonymous French author has written 
under the title of Renards de Samsr.n, and his argu* 
ments refuted in a treatise, “ De Vulpihus Simsonads,” 
by Gebhard, in Thes. Nov. Theol. Phil, i, 553 sq. ; and 
comp. Gasser, Comment, ad loe. [Hal. 1751] ; Tfaff, Von 
dem Filchscn Sim sons [Tiib. 1753] ; Schroder, De vulpi- 
bus Simsonis [Marb. 1713] ; Tiige, De vulpihus Simson- 
ccis [Griefsw. 1707]). r lhc proposed reading of Ken- 
nicott has deservedly found little favor with commen- 
tators. Not to mention the authority of the important 
old versions which arc opposed to this view, it is pretty 
certain that E"X**j cannot mean “sheaves.” The 
word, which occurs only three times, denotes in Isa. 
xl, 12 “the hollow of the -hand,” and in 1 Kings xx, 
10 ; Ezek. xiii, 19, “handfuls.” Reverting, therefore, 
to the interpretation of foxes burning the harvest by 
means of firebrands attached to their tails, the ease is 
borne out by Ovid (Fasti, iv, 681) — 

“Cur igitur missa? junctis ardentia telis 
Terga ferunt vulpes" — 

in allusion to the fact that the Romans, at the feast in 
honor of Ceres, the goddess of corn, to w hom they of- 
fered animals injurious to cornfields, were accustomed 
to turn into the circus foxes with torches so fastened 
to them as to burn them to death, in retaliation of the 
injuries done to the corn by foxes so furnished. Again, 
in the fable of Apthonius, quoted by Merrick ; but not, 
as is alleged, by the brick with a bas-relief represent- 
ing a man driving tw'o foxes with tire fastened to their 
tails, which was found twenty-eight feet below' the 
present surface of London (Lelaml, Collectanea ); be- 
cause tiles of similar character and execution have 
been dug up in other parts of England, some repre- 
senting the history of Susanna and the elders, and oth- 
ers the four Evangelists, and therefore all derived from 
Biblical, not pagan sources. Commentators, follow- 
ing the rendering of the Sept, (fcspvoc, Vulg. eauda ), 
have, with common consent, adopted the interpretation 
that two foxes v'ere tied together by their tails wdth a 
firebrand between them. Now this docs not appear to 
have been the practice of the Romans, nor docs it oc- 
cur in the fable of Apthonius. Ilcnce some have un- 
derstood the text to mean that each fox had a separate 
brand ; for it may be questioned whether two united 
would run in the same direction. They would he apt 
to pull counter to each other, and perhaps fight most 
fiercely; whereas there can be no doubt that every 
canine would run, with fire attached to its tail, not 
from choice, but necessity, through standing corn, if 
the field lay in the direction of the animal’s burrow; 
for foxes and jackals, w hen chased, run direct to their 
holes, and sportsmen w T ell know the necessity of stop- 
ping up those of the fox while the animal is abroad, or 
there is no chance of a chase. But this explanation 
requires that by the w r ords rendered “ tail to tail” w r e 
should understand the end of the firebrand attached to 
the extremity of the tail, i. e. one apiece ; this would 
be using the w ord in a double sense in the same pas- 


FOX 


638 


FOX 


sago, an equivoque not in accordance with the direct J 
style of the narrative. It is also probable that after 
a few fruitless efforts at trying to pursue each his own 
course, the animals would soon agree sufficiently to 
give the lire brand its fullest effect. Again, we know 
nothing as to the length of the cord which attached the 
animals, a consideration which is obviously of much 
importance in the question at issue, for, as jackals are 
gregarious, the couples would naturally run together 
if we allow a length of cord of two or three yards, es- 
pecially when we reflect that the terrified animals 
would endeavor to escape as far as possible out of the 
reach of their captor, and make the best of their way 
out of his sight. Finally, as the operation of tying 150 
brands to so man}’ fierce and irascible animals could 
not be effected in one day by a single man, nor pro- 
duce the result intended if done in one place, it seems 
more probable that the name of Samson, as the chief 
director of the act, is employed to represent the whole 
party who effected his intentions in different places at 
the same time, and thereby insured that general con- 
flagration of the harvest which was the signal of open 
resistance on the part of Israel to the long-endured op- 
pression of the Philistine people. (See Clarke’s Com- 
ment. ad loc. ; Ivitto’s Daily Bible Illustrations , ad loc. ; 
Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 341). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, 
s. v. See Samson. 

Fox, Edward, one of the English Reformers, was 
born in Gloucestershire (date not known precisely). 
He was educated at Eton, and at King’s College, Cam- 
bridge, of which he became provost in 1528. lie held 
this post during his life. Wolsey sent him on an em- 
bassy to Rome, with Gardiner, to promote a hull from 
Clement VII authorizing the divorce of the king from 
Catharine of Aragon. “ It was in conversation with 
Fox and Gardiner, in 1529, that Cramner suggested his 
method of settling the question of the king’s divorce, 
by t akin ; the opinion of the most learned men and 
universities in Christendom; and he it was who made 
it known to the king as Cranmer’s suggestion, when 
Gardiner would have tiken the eredit of it to himself. 
In the prosecution of this plan he was sent with Ste- 
phen Gardiner, in 1530, to obtain the determination of 
the University of Cambridge. The heads of the uni- 
versity, the vice-chancellor, and the afterwards noto- 
rious Bonner, were on the king’s side, but the univer- 
sity was divided. It was honorable to the University 
of Cambridge that so strong a resistance was offered 
to the will of the king. The royal authority being at 
this time on the side of reform, the commissioners, Fox 
and Gardiner, the latter being afterwards the great op- 
ponent of the Reformation, at length, though with dif- 
ficulty, carried their point, and it was determined that 
‘the king’s marriage was contrary to the law of God.’ 
In 1531 lie became archdeacon of Leicester, and in 1533 
archdeacon of Dorset. In 1535 he was appointed bish- 
op of Hereford. Shortly after his consecration he was 
sent ambassador to the Protestant princes in Germany 
assembled at Smalkald, whom he exhorted to unite, 
in point of doctrine, with the Church of England. He 
spent the winter at Wittenberg, and held several con- 
ferences with some of the German divines, endeavor- 
ing to conclude a treaty with them upon many articles 
of religion ; hut nothing was effected.” Bishop Burnet 
gives a particular account of this negotiation in his 
History of the R formation (pt. iii). lie returned to 
England in 1533, and died at London ]\Iay 8, 1538. 
lie published a hook, De rera differentia Regie Potesta - 
tis ef EcclesiastictP, et qum sit tpsa veritas et virtus ntri- 
vsqnc (bond. 1531 and 1538), which was translated into 
English by Henry Lord Stafford. — Burnet, History of 
the Reformation, vols. i, iii ; Hook, Eccles. Biography , v, 
133 ; Collier, Eccles. History of England, iv, 312 sq. 

Fox, George, founder erf the Society of Friends, 
was born at Drayton, Leicestershire, England, in July, 
1624. llis parents were pious members of the Church 


of England, and brought him up carefully. “ His 
mother, Mary Lago, was of the martyr stock, and had 
inherited their intense feelings and religious enthusi- 
asm. To her he probably owed his education and 
many of the determining impulses of his life ; as to his 
father, he was indebted for the incorruptible integ- 
rity and tenderly scrupulous regard for truth by which 
lie was characterized. As a child, lie was singular- 
13 ’' quiet, docile, observant, and meditative, lie sat 
among bis elders silently, watching their frivolity, un- 
truthfulness, gluttony, and intemperance, and inward- 
ly resolving, ‘If ever I come to be a man, surely I 
shall not do so, nor be so wanton.’ Some of liis rela- 
tives would have had the thoughtful lad trained for a 
clergyman, but others objecting, he was apprenticed to 
a person who, as the manner then was, combined a 
number of trades — shoemaking, wool-stapling, cattle- 
dealing, and so on. George proved a valuable assist- 
ant to him. The fear of God rested mightily upon 
him, and lie was anxiously watehful in all things to 
maintain strict integrity. ‘ Verily’ was a favorite 
word of his, and it beeame a common saving among 
those who knew him, ‘ If George says “ Verily” there 
is no altering him’ ” (Christian Times). His early re- 
ligious experience was very deep; and, after the ter- 
mination of his apprenticeship, he felt himself impelled 
bv a divine monition (1343) to leave his home and 
friends, seeking “light.” For economy’s sake, in 
these travels lie wore a leathern doublet. In 1347, 
after, as he says, “ forsaking the priests and the sepa- 
rate preachers also, and those esteemed the most expe- 
rienced people,” none of whom could “ speak to his 
condition,” lie “heard a voice” calling him to Christ, 
and his “ heart leaped for joy.” This was in 1347, in 
which year he began the ministry, which lasted during 
his life. When he began his work the mind of Eng- 
land was in a state of ferment, and he found many will- 
ing auditors. Ilis personal peculiarities of dress and 
manner attracted attention and persecution. “ When 
the Lord sent me forth into the world, lie forbid me to 
put off my hat to any, high or low, and I was required, 
to ‘thee’ and ‘thou’ all men and women, without, any 
respect to rich or poor, great or small ; and as I travel- 
led up and down, I was not to bid people ‘good-mor- 
ro-w’ or 1 good-evening,’ neither might I bow or scrape 
with my leg to any one ; and this made the sects and 
professions to rage” (.Town?. 1348). He taught (Journ. 
1349, p. 23) that “it is not the Scriptures, hut the 
Holy Spirit, by which opinions and religions arc to be 
tried.” Of course these novel and earnest views ex- 
cited great opposition ; Fox was imprisoned for some 
time as a “disturber of the peace.” He continued, 
however, to travel up and down England, preaching, 
and exhorting, and leaving permanent traces behind 
him almost everywhere. Ilis followers w’ere first call- 
ed “ Quakers” at Derby, in 1350, ly Justice Bennet, 
as Fox sa ys, “ because 1 bid them tremble at the word 
of the Lord.” In 1G55 he w’as brought before Crom- 
well, who pronounced favorably upon both liis doc- 
trines and character. Nevertheless, he was frequent- 
ly imprisoned by eonntiy magistrates. “ In 1G39 he 
married the widow- of Judge Fell. He then went to 
America, where he spent two years in propagating his 
views with much success. On his return to England 
in 1673, lie was imprisoned for some time in Worcester 
Jail, under the charge of having ‘ held a meeting from 
all parts of the nation for terrifying the king’s sub- 
jects.’ On his release lie visited Holland, and after- 
wards Hamburg, Holstein, and Dantzic, always en- 
deavoring to persuade men to listen to the voice of 
Christ within them. He died in London, January 13, 
1391” (Chambers, Cyclopedia, s. v.). 

The personal character of George Fox was, in man}’' 
respects, a loft}’ one. In self-sacrifice, earnestness, 
and purity, he was a model, liis intellectual powers 
were not of a very high order. His doctrine of the 
“inner light” w'as elaborated ly Robert Barclay (q. 


FOX 


G39 


FRANCE 


v.) with a clearness and method of which Fox was in- 
capable. Fox carried this doctrine, and also his ab- 
horrence of “a hireling ministry, ”to almost absurd ex- 
tremes. “ But, amid all his extremes and obscurities, 
the substance of George Fox’s ‘testimony’ was a truth 
of which every generation is in danger of forgetful- 
ness, and of which no generation ever so much needed 
to be reminded as this, namely, ‘that the kingdom of 
God is not meat and drink’ — not forms and ceremo- 
nies — not creeds, however sound — not organizations, 
however efficient — ‘but righteousness, and peace, and 
joy in the Holy Ghost’ ” ( Christian Times'). Sir James 
Mackintosh calls Fox’s Journal “one of the most ex- 
traordinary and instructive narratives in the world, 
which no reader of competent judgment can peruse 
without revering the virtue of the writer, pardoning 
his self-delusion, and ceasing to smile at his peculiari- 
ties” (llorits, London, 1851, p. 362). See Collection of 
Christian Epistles icritten by George Fox (London, 1698, 
2 vols. fol.); Journals of George Fox (London, 1691; 
Leeds, 1836, 2 vols.) ; )Fo?7rs of George Fox (Philadel. 
8 vols); Sewell, History of the Quakers (1795, 2 vols.) ; 
Neal, History of the Puritans, Harper’s edition, ii, 118; 
Jannev, Lift of George Fox , with Dissertations , etc. 
(Philadelphia, 1853, 8vo); Marsh, Life of George Fox 
(London, 1847, 8 vo) ; 1 1 estmnister Review , xl vii, 371 . 

Fox, John, author of the Booh of Martyrs, was 
born at Boston, Lincolnshire, in 1517, was educated at 
Brazenose, Oxford, and was elected a fellow of Mag- 
dalen College in 1543. In his youth he showed a tal- 
ent for poetry, and wrote several Latin comedies, the 
subjects taken from the Scriptures. One of them, Be 
Christo Triumphante , printed in 1551, was translated 
into English by Bichard Day, with the title Christ Jesus 
Triumphant , wherein is described the jjlorious triumpk 
and conquest of Christ over sin , death , and the law , etc. 
(1579, 1607, 1672). He embraced the principles of the 
Betbrmation, and for that cause was expelled from his 
fellowship in 1545 (according to Wood, A then. Oxon., he 
resigned it), for having espoused the Deformation, and, 
till lie was restored to it by Edward VI, he subsisted 
by acting as a tutor, first to the family of Sir Thomas 
Lucy, of Charlecote Park, and afterwards to the chil- 
dren of the earl of Surrey. In 1556 he was ordained 
deacon by Bishop Ridley. During the reign of Mary 
he sought an asylum at Basle. Returning on the 
accession of Elizabeth (1559), he was taken into the 
house of the duke of Norfolk, and Cecil obtained for 
him a prebend in the cathedral of Salisbury in 1563. 
He died in 1587. His great work is the .4 cts and Mon- 
uments of the Church , first published in 1563, usually 
known by the name of Fox's Booh of Martyrs, the 
merits and demerits of which have been a source 
of violent dispute between Protestant and Catholic 
writers; but no faults, beyond unimportant mistakes, 
have been detected in it. To the credit of Fox it must 
be recorded, that he strenuously, though vainly, en- 
deavored to prevail upon Elizabeth not to disgrace 
herself by carrying into effect the sentence whieh, in 
1575, condemned two Baptists to the flames as heretics. 
The best edition of the Martyrs is Acts and Monuments 
of Matters most special and memorable happening in the 
Church, or .1 cts and Monuments of Martyrs , with addi- 
tions, etc. (London, 1784, 9th cd. 3 vols. fol.); the latest 
are Fox's Acts and Monuments , new edition, with a Life 
of the Martvrologist, and Vindication of the Work, by 
the Rev. Geo. Townsend (Loud. 1843-49, 8 vols. 8vo), 
and a still better edition by Mendham and Pratt, 8 
vols. 8vo (Lond. 1853 sq.). There is an American re- 
print in one large volume (Nerv York, royal 8vo, p. 
1082), revised by Rev. M. H. Seymour. 

Fox, Richard, bishop of Winchester, and the 
founder of Corpus Christi College, Oxford, was horn 
at Grantham, Lincolnshire, of humble parentage, and 
educated at Boston school and Magdalen College, Ox- 
ford. Through the friendship of Morton, bishop of 


Ely, he was brought to the notice of the earl of Rich- 
mond, who, when lie became king (llenrv VII), made 
! Fox a privy councillor, bishop of Exeter, employed 
him on several embassies, then transferred him to the 
see of Durham, and finally to that of Winchester. 
Fox evinced his appreciation of learning by founding 
Corpus Christi College, Oxford, with two lectures for 
Greek and Latin, and by establishing several free 
schools. He died in 1528, and was buried in Win- 
chester Cathedral. He wrote The Contemplacyon of 
Synners (Lond. 1499, 4to) : — Letter to Cardinal Wolsey. 
— Allibonc, Dictionary of Authors, s. v. ; Rose, New 
Gen. Biog. Diet . vii, 4*28: Wood, A theme Oxonienses; 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet (J. W. 31.) 

Fox, William Johnson, an English Unitarian 
minister, and also a politician, was born at Uggleshall 
Farm, near Wrcntham, Suffolk, in 1786, the son of a 
small farmer. In youth he gave promise of talent, 
and was dedicated to the Christian ministry, and 
i studied at llomerton College, then under the direction 
of Dr. Pyc Smith, He soon abandoned the orthodox 
Independents, and became first a Unitarian, and later 
“a deistical heresiarcb, who preached more on politics 
than on religion.” His chapel at Finsbury Square 
i was filled by auditors attracted by his eloquence and 
his spirit of philanthropy. Politics at last became 
more attractive to him than preaching, and in 18 17 lie 
entered Parliament, in which he held a sent for Old- 
ham until 1862, when failing health compelled him to 
resign. He died June 3, 1864. He was a man of lit- 
erary tastes, and was a frequent contributor to the 
Westminster Review and to the Retrospective Review. 
His peculiar theological views are set forth in his Re - 
| ligious Ideas (Lond. 1849). He also published Lectures 
I on Morality (18,36, 8vo). These, rvith other writings 
J of his, are collected in Memorial Edition of the Works 
of W. J. Fox (Lond. 1865, 2 vols. 8vo). 

Frachet, Gerard i»e, a monkish ecclesiastical 
historian, was horn at Chains (Limousin), in France, 
about the beginning of the 13th century, and died at 
Limoges Oct. 4, 1271. He entered the Dominican or- 
der in 1225, and filled in succession the posts of prior 
of the convent of Limoges (1233^5), then of that of 
Marseilles, provincial of Provence (1251-9), and (1266) 
was chosen assistant ( defniteur ) provincial by the 
chapter of Limoges. He wrote (according to Lacor- 
daire), by the order of the chapter general which as- 
sembled at Paris in 1256, Vitce Fratrum ordinis Pnvdi- 
catorum (Douav, 1619, and Valence, 1657) ; — Chronicon 
ab initio Mundi; and left, besides, some manuscripts. 
— Hoefcr, Nouv. Biog. Gin. xviii, 421-2. (J.W. 31.) 

Fragments of Wolfenbiittel. See Wolfen- 
buttel Fragments. 

Frame is the rendering in the A. V. of ‘IIP, ye'- 
tser, form (usually spoken figuratively of imagina- 
tion) , e. g. the bodily formation (Psa. ciii, 14 ; “ thing 
framed,” Isa. xxix, 16); and il-^, mibneli , building , 
e. g. of a city (Ezek. xl, 2). 

France, a county of Europe, having an area of 
209,428 square miles, and in 1866 a population of 
I 38,192,094 inhabitants. 

I. Church History. — (1.) From thefrst Establish- 
ment of Christianity until the lGth Century. — France, or, 
as it was formerly called, Gaul, was among the first 
of the European countries in which Christian churches 
were founded. Roman Catholic rvriters tell us that 
the apostle Peter ordained bishops for Limoges, Tou- 
louse, Bordeaux, Rheims, Arles, Sens, le 3Ians, Vienne, 
Chalons, Bourges. Clermont, and Saintes. This state- 
ment is not historical ; hut it is certain that Christian- 
ity w r as planted in many parts of Gaul at least as 
early as the 2d century. The first Christians in 
Gaul doubtless came from Asia 31inor. We may as- 
sume as certain that the number of churches was al- 
ready tolerably large at the time of Irenajus (q. v.)* 


FRANCE 


640 


FRANCE 


“who in 198 presided at three provincial synods, and | 
seems to have established a school of catechists at Ly- 
ons. At the beginning of the 4th century there was 
no province in (Jaul as to which we have not accounts 
of bishoprics, or at least of Christian churches. Of 
the nations which founded new kingdoms in Gaul in 
the 5th century, the Burgundians were already Chris- 
tians when they left the southern districts of Germany, 
and settled between the rivers Saone and Rhone and the 
Alps, before the year 417. Among the Franks, king J 
Clovis (q. v.) first embraced Christianity, together with ' 
mbre than 3000 soldiers, after the battle of Tolbiacum, in 
496. In the mean time Christianity became so gener- 
ally extended in all parts of the country, in the north 
as well as in the south, that Church provinces began 
to be formed everywhere, the capital of each political 
province generally becoming also the seat of the me- 
tropolitan. The Franks, embracing the Catholic faith j 
while a considerable part of Europe was still under ! 
the rule of the A rians, began , soon to be regarded as 
the chief Catholic nation of Europe. Through the es- 
tablishment of the empire of Charlemagne, France , 
seemed for a time to become only a part of the union ' 
of all the German nations, but soon after the division | 
of the empire in 843 it recommenced its development 
as an independent state. King Lothaire I was obliged 
to bumble himself before the pope, as the hostile 
princes of his own family stood ready to execute the 
papal threats, and the Frankish bishops did not object 
to have the spurious decretals [sec Pseudo-Deoke- 
tals] used for the first time against Uincmar (q. v.) 
of Rheims, for they thought it better to obey a distant 
pope than a threatening metropolitan at home. But 
when, after the death of Lothaire I (869), Hadrian II 
attempted to interfere in the political and ecclesiastical 
controversies of France, Uincmar gave him to under- 
stand that in France a wide distinction was made be- 
tween spiritual and secular power, and that the bishops 
of older times had had independent privileges. The 
emperor Charles the Bald compelled the French bish- 
ops to acknowledge Ansegius, archbishop of Sens, as 
the primate and papal vicar for Gaul and Germany; 
but, under the counsel of Uincmar, they persisted in 
obeying the holy father only as far as was consistent 
with the rights of all the metropolitans and with the 
laws of the Church. In general, the bishops of France, 
as well as the kings, resisted more energetically than 
any other nation the ever-growing claims of the 
popes, and their unceasing efforts to establish an ab- 
solute sway over all bishops, synods, and kings. The 
Gallican Church stands forth in Church History as 
the prominent defender of national and episcopal 
rights against papal usurpations. Urban II, at the 
Council of Clermont (1095), excommunicated king 
Philip for his adulterous connection with the countess 
Bertrade, and, aided by the sympathy of the people, 
compelled him to give lip his paramour. Louis IX (q. 
v.), though so firmly attached to the doctrines and 
usages of his Church that, after his death, he was de- 
clared a saint, confirmed the rights of the nation by 
the Pragmatic Sanction in 12G9, the great palladium 
of tlie Gallican Church. Sec Galricanism. In op- 
position to pope Boniface VIII, who declared every 
one a heretic who did not believe that the king in tem- 
poral as well as in spiritual matters was subject to the 
pope, the three estates of France, convened in a Gen- 
eral Diet (1302), were unanimous in maintaining the 
independence of the French kingdom. The pope pro- 
nounced an interdict upon the whole of France, but 
popular opinion effectually protested against all at- 
tempts to blend the spiritual with the secular author- 
ity. In 1303 the king of France even succeeded in 
having a pope elected who took up his residence at 
Avignon (q. v.), and for more than a hundred years 
(until 3408) the papacy remained a tool pi the hands 
of the French kings. The concordat which Martin V 
proposed to Prance was rejected in 1418 by the Par- 


liament, which has ever since remained the steadfast 
advocate of Gallican liberties. The kings, however, 
were not equally steadfast in their opposition to the 
demands of the popes, and often made concessions in 
the hope, with the aid of the popes, of increasing their 
power at home. Thus the new Pragmatic Sanction, 
which the Council of Bourges (q. v.) established in 
1 138, was soon set aside by the succeeding kings. In 
all tlie great ecclesiastical movements of the Middle 
Ages France took a prominent part. Most of the ef- 
forts made either to overthrow the papacy for the pur- 
pose of restoring a purer form of Christianity [sec 
Waldexses; Albigexses], or to reform the Church 
from within, either centred in France, or found there 
the most vigorous support. 

(2.) History of the Unman Catholic Church, since the 
beginning of the 16/4 Century . — At the beginning of 
the 16th century Francis I concluded a concordat, Aug. 
18, 1516, in which he sacrificed many of the liberties of 
the Gallican Church. After the Tise of the Reforma- 
tion the Roman Church succeeded in securing her rs- 
cencleneyby long-continued and cruel persecution fsee 
below, History of the French Reformed Church'). Hen- 
ry IV, when contesting the throne of France, found 
the public sentiment so strongly in favor of the old 
Church that he thought it expedient, from political 
reasons, to change his faith. Henceforth the ascend- 
ency of the Roman Church over Protestantism was 
secured, and the reformatory movements of the Jan- 
senists (q. v.) and others were likewise suppressed, at 
the request of the popes, by the secular arm. The 
Golden Age of France, under Louis XIV, produced also 
in the Church some master minds, as Bossuet, Fenelon, 
Bourdalone, and many others, who were ornaments 
of their Church, but were not able to stay the ris- 
ing tide of an infidel philosophy. r J he episcopate, 
under the leadership of Bossuet, reaffirmed the liber- 
ties of the Gallican Church at the famous assembly 
held in 1682. This assembly, which consisted of eight 
archbishops, twenty-six bishops, and thirty-eight other 
clergymen, unanimously affirmed the principles of the 
Regale (the Pragmatic Sanction of 1438), announc- 
ing them in the form of four propositions, which were 
registered by the Parliament of Paris March 23, 1682. 
Though the popes often succeeded in enforcing obe- 
dience to their decrees, most of the great theologians 
of the 17th and 18th centuries adhered to Gallican 
doctrines, and the Regale continued in force until the 
revolution of 1789. Monastieism, in the same period, 
reached the climax of literary culture in some congrega- 
tions of the French Benedictines and Oratorians. Nev- 
ertheless, the very foundations of the Roman Church 
were gradually undermined by the spread of French 
philosophy, and the success of the French Revolution 
seemed for a time to sweep away the entire Church of 
France. The National Assembly decreed (Nov. 27, 
1790) that all ecclesiastical officers, under penalty of 
losing their offices, should take an oath for the civil 
constitution of the clergy, which Pius VI declared 
(April 13, 1791) inadmissible. Bishops were chosen 
in accordance with the new law, and consecrated with- 
out having the confirmation of the pope. In 1793 
Christianity itself was declared to be abolished. Na- 
poleon, though perhaps personally indifferent towards 
all churches, regarded the re-cstablisliment of the Ro- 
man Church as the religion of the state as indispensa- 
ble to the tranquillity of the country, and therefore 
concluded in 1801 a concordat [sec Concordat], the 
introduction of which was solemnized in 1802. Napo- 
leon added to the concordat certain organic laws, which 
make the promulgation of papal decrees dependent on 
the authorization of the government, establish an ap- 
peal to the Council of State against the abuses of ec- 
clesiastical power, and bind the theological seminaries 
to the four propositions of the Gallican clergy of 1682. 
Two years later Napoleon was crowned emperor by 
the pope. When, however, the States of the Church 


FRANCE 


641 


FRANCE 


were taken possession of by the French (1808), and 
when the pope declared every one who laid his hand 
upon the patrimony of St. Peter excommunicated, Na- 
poleon had the pope arrested and brought to France. 
An attempt to render, by means of a synod convoked 
at Paris (1811), the French Church independent of 
Rome, failed. In 1813 Napoleon extorted, in a new 
concordat, some important concessions from the im- 
prisoned pope ; and when the pope revoked all he had 
done, Napoleon published the concordat as the law of 
the empire on the very next day (March 25). After 
the overthrow of Napoleon (1815), Louis XVIII recog- 
nised the Roman Church as the religion of the state, 
though granting religious toleration to every form of 
public worship. Powerful efforts were made to re- 
establish among the French the belief in the doctrines 
of the Roman Church, and the leaders in this contest — 
Lamennais (q. v.), de Maistre (q. v.), and the “priests 
of the Mission” (q. v.) — attached themselves more 
closely to the papal than to the Gallican school. Gul- 
licanism, at least in its ancient form, began to die out. 
The Apostolic Congregation, though in opposition to 
the inclinations of the prudent king, obtained a con- 
cordat (1817) by which the concordat of 1801 was re- 
voked, and that of 151G substituted for it. So decided, 
however, was the opposition of public opinion that it 
was never laid before the Chamber of Deputies. With- 
out the consent of the Chambers, the government of 
Louis XVIII, and still more that of Charles X, did as 
much for the Church as was in their power, although, 
to appease public excitement, a royal ordinance (June 
1G, 1828) bad to close the schools of the Jesuits. The 
revolution of 1830 was connected with some outbreaks 
of popular indignation against the Church, which 
lost the prerogative of being the religion of the state. 
Vet Louis Philippe made as great concessions to the 
Church as the origin of his own authority would allow. 
Lamennais, Lacordaire, Montalembert, and others an- 
ticipated great results from a union between ultramon- 
tanism and democracy, but the condemnation of their 
organ, V A venir, by the pope, put a stop to their novel 
schemes, and drove Lamennais out of the Church. 
An attempt, made by the abbe Chatel in 1830, to found 
a new French Catholic Church in the spirit of an ex- 
travagant liberalism, and without any Christian basis, 
was ail utter failure. A plan of national education, 
which placed (1833) the public schools under the super- 
intendence of the university, was violently assailed by 
tho Church, yet the government never ceased to seek 
a reconciliation, or at least a compromise, with the 
Church ; and when Thiers called up in the Chamber 
of Deputies the laws still in existence against the Jes- 
uits, the government executed them with the utmost 
possible mildness. To the Republican Revolution of 
1848 the Church offered no opposition, and the priests 
did not hesitate to bless the tree of libert}' and pray 
for the sovereign people. The Church received almost 
everything she had been in vain demanding during 
the reign of Louis Philippe. Nevertheless, the dread 
of the Red Republic made most of the clergy and of 
the leaders of the Catholic party partisans of Louis 
Napoleon. Having become emperor, Napoleon III 
attached a majority of the bishops and of the ul- 
tramontane school to his interests bv increasing the 
salaries of the bishops, raising their influence in the 
supreme educational and political boards of the state, 
and by permitting the bishops to revive the provincial 
councils which had been in desuetude for more than a 
hundred years. The ultramontane school, headed by 
the Culvers , readily approved of all the measures of the 
government by which the political liberties of the na- 
tion were curtailed, and many hoped that the emperor 
would realize their boldest dream — the restoration of 
a politico-ecclesiastical theocracy under the rule of 
the pope. Yet many leading men in the Church, es- 
pecially among the laity, dissented from this view, 
and organized a moderate school, which not only op- 
III.— S s 


! posed the political views of the government and of the 
ultramontanes, but also accused the latter of ultraism 
| in their defence of ecclesiastical institutions and prac- 
tices. Montalembert, Lacordaire, prince de Broglie, 
Falloux, Lenormant, and bishop Dupanloup of Orleans 
were the most distinguished men of the party, the 
Correspondant and the Ami de la Religion its most im- 
portant organs. The controversy between the two 
parties grew not only very bitter and violent, but 
even led several times to a split between the bishops, 
whose sympathies were almosh equally divided be- 
tween the two parties. Several bishops took decided 
ground against the Univers , and even in Paris it re- 
quired the mediation of the pope to prevent its prohi- 
bition by archbishop Sibour. An entire change in the 
relation of Napoleon to the Church and the so-called 
Catholic party took place in consequence of the war 
in Italy (1857) and the altitude of Napoleon with re- 
gard to the temporal sovereignty of the pope. The 
war silenced all the eulogies of the emperor, and only 
a few solitary voices, like that of Lacordaire, dared to 
express sympathy with the cause of Italian indepen* 
dence. But after Napoleon had advised the pope to 
give up a portion of Ills states, both the parties, the 
ultramontane and the moderate, turned against the 
government. All the bishops except one condemned, 
more or less explicitly, the course pursued by the gov- 
ernment, and every ecclesiastical journal in France 
took the same ground. The government used all 
means to keep down the agitation of the public mind 
on the subject, and to force the leading advocates of 
the ecclesiastical interests to submission. The Uni- 
vers and several Catholic papers in the provinces were 
suppressed, and almost every other organ of the party 
received an official warning; and the bishops were 
threatened, in the case of a continuance of the agita- 
tion, with the re-enforcing of the organic articles. It 
is generally admitted that the Roman Church in 
France has grown strong in comparison with its condi- 
tion during the 18th and at the beginning of the Iflth 
century. All the leading religious societies, confra- 
ternities, and associations of the Roman Church centre 
in France, which contributes for some religious pur- 
poses, as the foreign missions, more than the rest of 
the Roman Church together. 

(3.) The History of French Protestantism. — The Ref- 
ormation of thelGth century, soon after its rise in Ger- 
many and Switzerland, found many friends and pa- 
trons in France ; but it met at once with a determined 
opposition on the part of the University of Paris, 
which declared against it in 1521. Among the earli- 
est preachers of the Reformed faith were Bucer, Me- 
lancthon, Lefevre, and Farel ; somewhat later, Calvin 
published his Institutes of the Christian Religion , with 
a dedication to king Francis I.* La 1521 the first Prot- 
estant congregation was formed at Meaux, the bishop 
of which city, Bri^onnet (q. v.), was one of the converts 
of Lefevre and Farel. The bishop subsequently yield- 
ed to persecution and recanted, but the congregation 
maintained itself. (For a fuller account of the begin- 
nings of Protestantism in France, see Reformation.) 
Under t lie reign of Henry II (1547-59), the members 
of the French Reformed Church had increased so 
greatly in numbers and strength that it became diffi- 
cult to treat them any longer as holders of a forbid- 
den religion. The Protestants did not content them- 
selves with seeking to secure toleration, blit, regarding 
the Roman Church as doomed to destruction, and 
themselves as called by God to take its place, they 
often entered into plans for establishing Protestantism 
as the religion of the state. The adhesion to the Ref- 
ormation of several members of the royal family, as 
the king of Navarre and his brother, the prince of 
Condo, and several grandees of the empire (among 
whom the three brothers Chatillon and the noble ad- 
miral Coligny distinguished themselves), early intro- 
duced into the Protestant Church a political element 


FRANCE 


642 


FRANCE 


which was strengthened hv the cruel rigor with which 1 
the princes generally persecuted it. This element 
was developed the more strongly as the general 
spirit of those times was democratic, and as Calvin 
himself, the father of the Reformed Chuich, inclined 
to theocratic principles. “ In 1555 the first avowed 
French Reformed church was established in Paris. 
All the chief towns followed this example. The first 
synod of the French Protestant Church assembled pri- 
vately in Paris, May 25, 1559. Owing to the danger 
of the enterprise only thirteen churches sent deputies. 
Nevertheless, the foundations of an important super- 
structure were then and there laid. A complete sys- 
tem of ecclesiastical polity was speedily adopted, for 
the members of the synod had too vivid a sense of the 
dangers to which they were exposed to waste time in 
unprofitable discussions among themselves. The form 
of government thus established was thoroughly Pres- 
byterian in its character. It seems to have corre- 
sponded very closely to that of the Church of Scotland. 
The Consistory may be viewed as representing the 
Kirk Session, the Colloquy the Presbytery, while the 
Provincial Synods of each are analogous ; and the Na- 
tional Synod corresponds to the General Assembly. 
The Consistory was elected at first by the whole con- 
gregation over which it was to rule, but vacancies oc- 
curring afterwards were filled up by the Colloquy. 
The ministers were elected by the Colloquy. A min- 
ister, on being thus elected, was required to preach 
before the congregation on three consecutive Sabbaths; 
whereafter, if no objection was made, the congregation 
was considered as acquiescing in the appointment. If 
there was any objection, the matter was referred to 
the Provincial Synod, whose decision was final. These 
provincial synods have been generally sixteen in num- 
ber. The National Synod lias met but seldom, owing 
to the severe persecutions to which the Church has 
been exposed, and the increasing restrictions which 
have been imposed upon her. The Confession of Faith 
adopted at the first synod consisted of forty articles. 
Its doctrines were strictly Cnlvinistic. Though the 
Church was much harassed by persecution during the 
reign of Henry 1 1, still it greatly increased ; so much 
so that we are told that Beza, who died in 1C05, could 
count 2150 churches in connection with the Protestant 
Church of France ; and the churches were not small 
or insignificant in point of strength. In some there 
were 10,000 members. The church of Orleans bad 
7000 communicants, and the ministers in such churches 
were proportionally numerous ; two ministers to a 
church was common, and that of Orleans had five. 
At this period there were 305 pastors in the one prov- 
ince of Normandy, and in Provence there were GO” 
(Ea die, s. v.). The cruel persecution to which the 
Calvinists were subjected after the death of Henry II, 
under the reign of Francis II, led them to organize 
the Conspiracy of Amboise, in which some discontent- 
ed members of the Roman Catholic Church also took 
part, though the majority of the conspirators were Cal- 
vinist*. Its aim was the overthrow of the proud duke 
of Guise and his brother, the cardinal of Lorraine, who 
were the uncles of the king, and the chief instigators 
of the persecution of the Protestants. The conspiracy 
was betrayed, and many of the participants lost their 
lives. Calvin and Beza had been notified of the en- 
terprise, but discouraged it, though they did not feel 
themselves hound to betray it. The weak king of 
Navarre, and still more his brother, the prince of Con- 
dc, were - implicated in the plot, and nothing but the 
death of the king saved their lives. The Calvinists 
henceforth received the name Huguenots, a name 
whose etymology is not quite certain. See Hugue- 
nots. During the regency of Catharine of Medicis 
the Huguenots increased in number, and the court 
party, which feared that their extirpation' was not pos- 
sible without exposing France to the terrors of civil 
v.ar, was iuelined to grant them religious toleration. 


The dukes of Guise saw the necessity of enlarging and 
consolidating the Catholic party. They prevailed on 
the aged and vainglorious constable of Montmorency 
to form with them a triumvirate, which was soon also 
| joined by the king of Navarre, who was induced by 
I false promises to abandon the cause of the Huguenots. 
The cardinal of Lorraine even feigned an inclination 
to the Confession of Augsburg, and, contrary to the 
wishes of his own party, brought about a religious con- 
ference with the Calvinists at Poissv (1561), at which 
Beza brilliantly defended the Reformation against the 
whole prelatic strength of the Roman Church. A 
| committee, consisting of five members of each party, 

I was appointed to conciliate the views of the two 
churches concerning the doctrine of the Lord’s Sup- 
per. It succeeded in drawing up a formula which 
was accepted by the Calvinists, as well as by the 
I queen-mother and the cardinal. But the Sorbonne 
! declared it to be heretical, and it was soon generally 
abandoned. The celebrated edict of January, 1562, 
granted to the Huguenots provisionally the right to 
assemble for religious worship outside of the towns, 
until further provisions should be made by an occumen- 
l ical council. Beza and the Huguenots in general ac- 
| cepted this trifling concession with gratitude, but a 
number of Parliaments, especially that of Paris, raised 
against it the strongest remonstrances. The duke of 
' Guise threatened to cut it with the edge of his sword, 
and commenced hostilities in the same year at Yassy, 
where a number of the Huguenots were massacred. A 
bloody civil war ensued, in which the Huguenots suf- 
fered heavy losses, and which was ended by the Peace 
of St. Germain (1570), in which the government gave 
to the Huguenots four fortified towns as security for 
the future. The Huguenots conceived new hopes; 
their chief defender, Henry of Navarre, was married 
to the king’s sister ; but when all their chief men were 
assembled at Paris to celebrate the nuptials, the queen- 
mother gave treacherously the sign for that general 
and bloody massacre known in history as the Xif/ht of 
St. Bai'iholomew, in which from 20,000 to 100,000 Pio- 
testants perished, and among them the great Coligny 
(q. v.). The Protestants again rose in despair, and re- 
ceived new concessions in the Edict of Poitiers (1577), 
but the Holy League, which had been organized bv the 
duke of Guise and his brother, compelled the king to 
j revoke everything, and to take a pledge not to rest un- 
til the last heretic should be extirpated from France. 
The assassination of the duke of Guise and his brother 
by order of the king, who wished to free himself from 
the influence of the League, stirred up anew the fanat- 
icism of the Catholic population, and led to the expul- 
sion, and, later, to the assassination of the king him- 
self. The legitimate heir to the throne, Henry of 
Navarre, had been the bead of the Protestants, yet, to 
overcome the hostility of the Roman Catholic party, lie 
believed it necessary to join the Roman Church (1593), 
He gave, however, to his former coreligionists, by the 
Edict of Nantes (1598), which he declared irrevocable, 
freedom of faith and of public worship (with only a 
few restrictions), their rights as citizens, and great 
privileges as an organized political corporation. They 
were declared eligible for admission into the universi- 
ty, and for appointments in the public service, and re- 
ceived an annual grant of 1000 crowns. The remon- 
strances of several magistrates and provinces against 
this decree were in vain. Thus brighter days seemed 
to approach. During the twenty-six years which in- 
tervened between the massacre of St. Bartholomew 
and the publication of the Edict of Nantes only six 
National Synods had been held, and the only tiling 
that had served to cheer up the drooping hearts of 
Protestants had been the publication of a new and im- 
proved edition of the Genevan version of the Bible. 
After the assassination of Henry IV (1610) the Protes- 
I tants were again forced by persecution to take up arms 
I in defence of their rights ; but they were disarmed as 


FRANCE 


643 


FRANCE 


a political party by cardinal Richelieu, though, by an 
act of amnesty at Ni sines (1G29), lie secured to them 
their former ecclesiastical privileges. About this time 
their number had been reduced to only about half of 
Avliat it was before the massacre of St. Bartholomew. 
Louis XIV regarded it as his special mission to break 
the power of Protestantism in the state. The Protes- 
tants were deprived of a great many churches and 
schools; the utmost efforts were made to convert all 
who were accessible to fear, promises, or persuasion ; 
children were taken from their parents; “booted mis- 
sions of dragoons” were sent in every direction (after 
lG<sl), and at last the Edict of Nantes was formally re- 
pealed in 1G85. See Nantes, Edict of. One moun- 
tain tribe [see Camtsaiids] in the Cevennes took up 
arms against the king, but its prophets and heroes ei- 
ther perished on the battle-field, or gained only the priv- 
ilege of going into exile (1704). It is calculated that 
from 30,000 to 40,000 Protestants fled from France at 
this time. Nevertheless, two millions of the Reformed 
remained, with no congregations except in the wilder- 
ness, and in 1744 they again held their first National 
Synod. “In the closing years of the reign of Louis 
XIV, and during the regency of Philippe d’Orleans, the 
Protestants were more leniently dealt with. Though 
now enjoying extenial peace, the Church began to ex- 
hibit signs of internal declension. The chief causes 
producing this effect were the want of trained and edu- 
cated men to fill the office of pastor, and the spirit of 
fanaticism which had sprung up among the members of 
the Church. These defects were remedied mainly by 
the exertions of Antoine Court, who has been styled 
the ‘Restorer of the Protestantism of France.’ He 
instituted prayer-meetings wherever he could, and also 
held synods or conferences of the ministers, along with 
a few intelligent laymen. By thus exciting a spirit 
of prayer and a love of order he much benefited the 
Church. But, while the Protestant Church was grad- 
ually recovering from its depressed condition, it was 
startled by the proclamation by Louis XV, on May I I, 
1724, of the last great law against the Protestants, 
This law re-enforced the most severe measures of Louis 
XIV. It sought not so much to intimidate Protestants 
into a recantation, or to punish them if they refused, 
but rather sought to force them, willing or not, to re- 
ceive the ordinances of the Roman Catholic Church. 
For instance, it made baptism by the parish curate 
compulsory in ever}' case, and declared that no mar- 
riage was valid unless performed by a Roman priest. 
This attempt to force people into the Church of Rome 
only drove them further from it. Antoine Court (q. 
v.) was supported by multitudes. The Provincial Syn- 
ods, which he had reinvigorated, multiplied; and, to 
meet the want of pastors, he opened a school of theolo- 
gy at Lausanne, which continued to supply the Pro- 
testant Church with pastors until the time of Napo- 
leon. From 1780 to 1744 the Protestants enjoyed quiet. 
In the latter year a National Synod was held in Lower 
Languedoc. When the news of the holding of this 
synod reached Paris, it caused the king and hie minis- 
ters to embark in a new crusade of horrors against the 
defenceless Protestants. This caused a new emigra- 
tion. Calmer days followed the storm, and, after 17G0, 
principles of toleration began to prevail. The school 
of Voltaire, while doing incalculable injury to the 
cause of religion and morality generally, did good ser- 
vice in spreading the principles of toleration and of 
religious liberty. The nation gradually became leav- 
ened with these principles. Louis XVI, though rather 
inclined to the opposite principles, was ultimately 
obliged to yield to the spirit of the age, and in Novem- 
ber, 1788, he published an edict of tolerance. The priv- 
ileges granted by this edict to those who were r.ot Ro- 
man Catholics were the following : ‘ The right of living 
in France, and of exercising a profession or trade in the 
kingdom, without being disturbed on account of relig- 
ion ; the permission to marry legally before the officers 


of justice ; the authority to record the births of their 
children before the local judge.’ It also included a 
provision for the interment of those who could not be 
buried according to the Roman Catholic ritual” (Ea- 
die, s. v.). 

The Reformation of Luther found early adherents in 
France, some, of whom suffered martyrdom for their 
faith [see Reformation in France], but the influ- 
ence of Calvin soon prevailed. In 1G48, Alsace, and a 
number of other districts and towns in which the Lu- 
theran Church was either exclusively or partly estab- 
lished, were ceded to France by the Peace of Westpha- 
lia. Religious liberty was guaranteed to the Luther- 
ans, and again confirmed by the Peace of Nymvcgen 
in 1G78. Oil the same terms France acquired, in 1G81, 
Strasburg, and in 379G, from Wurtembcrg, Mompel- 
gard. The congregations of these districts gradually 
coalesced into the one evangelical Lutheran Church 
of France, showing the diversities of its origin by the 
variety of liturgies, hymn-books, catechisms, etc. which 
are still in use. The free exercise of their worship has 
not, on the whole, been interfered with ; yet many roy- 
al decrees have favored the Roman Church and prose- 
lytism, and the number of entire congregations which 
have been brought back to the Roman Church is said 
to be over sixty. 

The National Assembly of 1789 gave to all religious 
denominations equal rights, yet the Revolution soon 
afterwards raged against the Protestant churches as 
much as against the Roman Catholic. Peace and or- 
der were first restored by the decree of 1802, in which 
Napoleon assigned to the clergymen of the French Re- 
formed and the French Lutheran 'churches salaries 
from the public treasury, and gave them, of his own 
authority, a new constitution. The principal points 
of this constitution were as follows : The lowest eccle- 
siastical board for both denominations is the Consistory, 
which consists of the pastors of the consistorial dis- 
trict, and from six to twelve laymen. There is to be 
one Consistory for every G000 souls, no matter whether 
they belong to one or to several congregations. The 
lay members are elected every other year from the 
number of those citizens who pay the highest taxes. 
The Consistory is presided over by the oldest pastor. 
In the Reformed Church five consistorial districts form 
one synodal district. The Provincial Synod consists 
of one pastor and one elder from every congregation. 
The president is elected. The synod cannot be con- 
voked without the permission of the government; can 
discuss only subjects which have previously been 
brought to the knowledge of the minister of public 
worship, and in the presence of the prefect or an officer 
delegated by him ; and can remain in session only six 
days. The Lutheran Church is divided into Inspec- 
tions, the assemblies of which correspond to the Pro- 
vincial Synods of the Reformed Church, with this dif- 
ference, however, that the assemblies of the Lutheran 
Church elect for lifetime one inspector and two lay 
adjuncts, who have the right to visit the churches. 
Above these provincial synods stands in the Lutheran 
Church a kind of central synod, called the General Con - 
sistory. It consists of a lay president and two clerical 
inspectors, appointed by the government for life, and 
of one lay deputy from every Inspection elected for 
life. This board is subject to the same restrictions 
as the Provincial Synods and the Assemblies of the 
Inspections. In the interval between the sessions, a 
committee, consisting of the president, the elder of the 
two inspectors, two lay members designated by the 
General Consistory, and a commissary appointed by 
the head of the state, acts as the supreme administra- 
tive board of the Church. This responsible committee 
is called the Directory. At first this new constitution 
was regarded with great favor by the Protestants, but 
its defects soon revealed themselves. The Reformed 
Church complained that the Provincial Synods were 
never convoked. The want of Presbyterial Councils 


FRANCE 


G44 


FRANCE 


was so palpable that they were organized in spite of 
the silence of the law, in the Reformed Church, under 
the name of Consistoires Sectionnaires ; in the Lutheran 
Church, under the name Consuls Presbytt'ranx. The 
larger Reformed congregations also appointed deacons , 
to have the care of the poor, and this example was im- 
itated by the Lutheran congregation of Colmar. Dur- 
ing the reign of Napoleon and that of the Bourbons, 
no improvement of the law could be expected, because 
the one was too absolute, and the other too hostile to 
Protestantism. Under Louis Philippe several attempts 
were made to reorganize the Church, but dissension 
between the government and the Church boards, and, 
in the Lutheran Church, between the Inspections and 
the General Consistory, frustrated all these efforts. 
After the Revolution of 1848, both churches availed 
themselves of the liberty granted to them, and held 
General Assemblies, which prepared drafts of new con- 
stitutions, and also expressed a desire for union be- 
tween the two churches. Louis Napoleon returned to 
the principles of the former legislation, aiul by a de- 
cree of March 20, 1852, re-established the law of 1802, 
with a few alterations. According to these alterations, 
Preshy terial Councils, based on universal suffrage, are 
established in both churches ; from them Consistories 
proceed, which elect their clerical president, who must, 
however, be approved by the government. The Re- 
formed Church receives, moreover, from the govern- 
ment a Conseil Central, as supreme ecclesiastical board, 
the members of which are appointed by the govern- 
ment. But the Consistories have not yet admitted the 
authority of the Conseil , which, in fact, is only an organ 
for the government rather than for the churches. In 
the Lutheran Church the inspectors are in future to be 
appointed for life by the government, instead of be- 
ing elected by the district assemblies. The supreme 
Church board is called the Supreme Consistory , and the 
government appoints its president and one member. 
All the inspectors are also members of this Supreme 
Consistory, with two lay deputies from each inspection 
district, and one deputy of the theological seminary. 
The election of these latter two classes is left to the 
Church. The Directory has the right of appointing 
all pastors, subject to the approval of the government. 
►Soon after the publication of the decree of March 20, a 
new division and an increase of the consistories of the 
two churches, and of the Inspections of the Lutheran 
Church, took place. This reorganization of the two 
churches afforded to both this theoretical advantage, 
that each department was assigned to a Consistory, 
and that henceforth congregations could be formed 
without having to encounter obstacles on the part of 
Roman Catholic hoards. On the other hand, it was 
pernicious to the interests of the dissenters, many of 
whose churches and schools were closed in the purely 
Roman Catholic districts. In consequence of the hos- 
tility of the bishops, and their influence in the prov- 
inces, the Protestants had frequently to suffer from ar- 
ticles 21)1, 202, and 204 of the Napoleonic Criminal Code, 
according to which all associations of twenty persons 
or more, without previous authorization of the govern- 
ment, are forbidden. This law has frequently been 
put in force against the religious meetings of the Prot- 
estants, both in the state and in the free churches, in 
places where there are no church edifices. Many of 
these grievances were redressed on the establishment 
of the Republic, when a minister of public worship de- 
clared those articles not to be applicable to religious 
meetings. But a decree of Louis Napoleon, issued 
March 25,1852, extended it again to “all public meet- 
ings,” and subjected the Protestants to many new an- 
noyances. They hope to find some relief from a re- 
cent law of March 30, 3850, which takes the authoriza- 
tion of new churches, chapels, and oratories out of the 
hands of the prefects, and transfers it to the State 
Council, which is less suspected of yielding to the in- 
fluence of the bishops and the Roman Catholic party. 


A great revival in the Protestant churches com- 
menced about 1820. Those who, under the influence 
of this revival, sought to unite themselves bv closer 
spiritual bonds than the state churches afforded them, 
were generally designated by the name Methodists , al- 
though they were not organized as a Methodist de nom- 
ination. Many of the converts kept themselves ale of 
from the state churches, and began to b y the foun- 
dation of independent congregations. In the state 
Church a violent contest arose between the Evangeli. 

I cal and the Rationalistic parties. The “ Evangelical 
Association.'' founded in 185?, was supported as a home 
missionary society by evangelical Christians both in 
and out of the state churches. A large number of relig- 
ions societies sprung up, partly siq ‘ported by only one 
of the great pal ties, but partly also by both. In 1848, 
Frederick Monod (q. v.), with several other clergymen 
of the Evangelical school, seceded fr< m the Reformed 
►State Church because the synod of the Church refused 
to demand from all ministers an adhesion to the funda- 
mental articles of the evangelical faith. With the as- 
t sistance of count de Gasparin and others, he succeeded 
in having all the dissident churches united into a Union 
des ef.ises ('vanyeliqves de France ,” which held its first 
| General Synod in 1849. The churches belonging to 
this union are entirely independent of the state, and 
their General Synods now meet biennially. In both 
the state churches some leading men and journals of 
the. Rationalistic party have gone so far as to avow un- 
disguised deistical views, and all attempts to force 
them cut of the Church have failed. On the other 
hand, when a pastor of the Evangelical school showed 
{in inclination towards Baptist views, the choice was 
left to him either to recant or to secede. 

IL Ecclesiastical Statistics of France. — (1.) The Ho- 


man Catholic Chinch . — The Roman Catholic Church 
had, at the beginning of the year 3>G9, eighteen arch- 
bishoprics, viz. Aix, Alby, Algiers (established in 18G7), 
Auch, Avignon ; Besaneon, Bordeaux, Bourges, Cam- 
brai, C'haml cry, Lyons, Paris, Rheims, Rennes (estab- 
lished in 3859), Rouen, Sens, Toulouse, and Tours. A 
number of the archbislitps are generally cardinals (in 
18G8, five), v ho, as such, are senators of the empire, and 
receive a higher salary. The number of bishoprics 
is G9 in France, 2 in Algeria, 3 in the colonics (Mar- 
tinique, Guadeloupe, and Reunion); total, 74. .since 
the overthrow of Louis Philippe, the bitlups have 
claimed the right to meet, without previous authori 
zation from the government, in Provincial Synods, 
and many such synods have since been held. The 
archbishops and bishops are assisted in the administra- 
tion of their dioceses by vicar-generals, whose number 
ranges from two to fifteen, and by two or three secre- 
taries. The ecclesiastical courts have risen in impor- 
tance since the re-establishment of the provincial and 
diocesan synods, and consist of a president, an official, 
a rice-official, a promoteur, one or several assessors, and 
one grrffier. As the bishops are not elected, but nonii 
nated by the government, the chapters have less im 
portnnee than in other countries. The canons of tlies^ 
chapters, all of whom are appointed by the bishops, 
form three classes, called chanoiucs d' honneur. iha- 
noines honoraires , and chanoh.es fitulaires . The third 
class contains the. active resident members. The first 
class contains bishops of other dioceses; the second 
class (the most numerous), many pastors, vicars, pro- 
fessors of theological faculties, presidents of semina- 
ries. colleges, and institutions, both Frenchmen and 
foreigners. Rural deaneries, other chapters, and the 
office of archdeacon were swept away by the Rev- 
olution, but a new chapter of St. Denys (Dionysius), 
prominent not so much by influence as by high posi- 
tion, lias been founded, near the tomb of the imperial 
family, by Louis Napoleon. It has two classes ot 
members: first, the bishops who have retired; and, 
secondly, ten canons, with ten honorary members, 
these latter including the imperial chaplains. The 


FRANCE 


645 


FRANCE 


lower clergy are divided into cures, desservants , and vi- ' 
caires. There are about 9G00 of the first, about 32,000 
of the second, and more than 9000 of the third class. 
Besides, there are a number of cmmoniers (chaplains) 
appointed for the lvceums, colleges, normal schools, 
hospitals, and jails; also for the army and the navy, 
each of which has its aunionier en chef Thus the total 
number of the lower (secular) clergy exceeds 40,000. 
In the administration of the secular affairs of the par- 
ishes, some members of the laity take part as marguil- 
liers de paroisse (treasurers), or members of the so- 
called Fabriqne (church council). 

In the Roman Church, the religious orders and com- 
munities of the clergy, and societies and confraterni- 
ties among the laity, are very numerous. Among the 
monastic orders the Jesuits (q. v.) occupy a prominent 
position, both by the number of their establishments 
and by their influence. Some of their members (e. g. 
Ravignan and Felix) have shone as the greatest pul- 
pit orators of modern France. The Benedictines (q. 
v.) have re-established a convent at Solemnes, and 
have resumed the literary labors of their order, but 
have not been able as yet to obtain many members. 
The Dominicans, though not very numerous, have 
gained prestige from the reputation of Lacordaire, who 
re-established the order in France. Nearly all the mo- 
nastic orders of the Koman Church have now some es- 
tablishments in France, and a number of new ones (e. 
g. the Obhites , Marists , and society of Pic pit s) have 
been founded. Many of the religious orders and com- 
munities devote themselves with great zeal to the 
work of foreign missions. At the head of them are 
the Lazarists (q. v.), whose principal establishment is 
in Paris. With them vies especially the Seminary of 
Foreign Missions at Paris, which was founded in IGGo, 
abolished in 1792, and re-established in 1825. It is 
under the administration of a superior and six direct- 
ors, and sends out every year large numbers of mis- 
sionaries to Eastern Asia. The Oblates, the Marists, 
the Picpus Society, the Jesuits, the Priests of Mercy, 
the Capuchins, and many other orders and congrega- 
tions, sustain missions in foreign lands. A new mis- 
sionary seminary for the missions in Africa was estab- 
lished at Lyons in 1858. The communities of women , 
who nurse the sick and the aged poor, or devote them- 
selves to teaching and to the reformation of prisoners 
and wretched females, are very numerous and pros- 
perous. Many of these congregations and societies — 
as the Sisters of Charity (q. v.), the congregation of 
the Good Sh pherd (q. v.), the LitVe Sisters of the Poor , 
etc. — increase with a rapidity which is almost without 
example in the entire history of the Koman Church. 
The religious societies among the laity also increase in 
strength and numbers every year. The most impor- 
tant among them are the Society for the Propagation 
of the Faith, the central missionary society of the Ro- 
man Church, to which now nearly all countries of the 
world contribute. It was founded in France in 1822, 
lias its centres at Paris and Lyons, and its contribu- 
tions amount to about 5,000,000 francs annually, more 
than one half of which is contributed by France. The 
society publishes a bimonthly, Annals of the Propaga- 
tion of Faith, in various languages. The central chil- 
dren’s missionary society of the Church, called the 
Society of the Holy Childhood , has its central organiza- 
tion in France. Its annual income amounts to about 
1,000,000 francs. r I he St. Vincent Society, for visiting 
and assisting the poor, has established branch associa- 
tions in more than 3000 localities, and expends for the 
assistance of the poor more than 3,000,000 francs an- 
nually. Primary education in France is almost en- 
tirely under the control of the bishops. Most of the 
schools are conducted by religious congregations, such 
as the Brothers of the Christian Schools, the Brothers 
of the Christian Doctrine, the Brothers of St. Joseph, 
Brothers of Mary, Brothers of the Society of Mary, 
Daughters of the Holy Spirit, and many others. The 


seminaries, in which those who have the priesthood in 
view are educated from their early boyhood ( Grands 
et Petits Seminaires ), are now, as they always have 
been, under the sole control of the bishops. The re- 
lations of the Church to the State colleges were, until 
the Revolution of 1848, not to the satisfaction of the 
bishops, although every college had its chaplain. The 
controversy between Church and State on this point 
was terminated by the law of March 15, 1850, which 
grants to the Church the liberty to found free colleges. 
This permission has called into existence a very consid- 
erable number of Roman Catholic colleges and board- 
ing-schools. Faculties of theology exist at Paris (the 
Sorbonne), at Lyons, Rouen, and Bordeaux, but, as the 
professors and deans are appointed by the minister of 
public worship, they do not enjoy the patronage of the 
bishops, and have hut a limited number of students. 
Moreover, the course of studies at the three last-named 
is by no means superior to that of the Grands Semi- 
naires. In order to promote the study of scientific 
theology, which, on the whole, is cultivated but little, 
the bishops have organized at Paris an ecole ecclesias - 
tuple des hautes etudes. 

Nominally, the immense majority of the population 
of France is still connected with the Roman Catholic 
Church. T he census of 1851 claimed out of the entire 
population (35,781,G27) 34,931,032 as Roman Catholics. 
At the last French census the religious denominations 
were not taken into consideration. In 18GG the Roman 
Catholic population of the French dominions was esti- 
mated as follows : France, 3G, 000, 000; French posses- 
sions in America, 314,000; Algeria, 190,000; other 
French possessions in Africa, 133,000 ; possessions in 
Asia, 200,000 ; possessions in Oceanica, 30,000. A very 
large portion of these, however, are practically not 
only without any connection whatever with the 
Church, but even decided opponents of it. Among 
the daily journals published at Paris only a few are 
considered as Roman Catholic papers. The number 
of religious journals, in proportion both to the Roman 
population of France and to the religious press of other 
Roman Catholic countries, is small. The most impor- 
tant among the Roman Catholic papers are the Monde 
and the Univers , both dailies of Paris, and counted 
among the most important organs of the ultramontane 
party in the world. 

The following table gives tlie list of ecclesiastical 
provinces, with number of dioceses, clergy, and relig- 
ious communities in each, as reported in 18G8: 


1 Provinces. 

Dio- 

ceses. 

Curts. 

Surcursales, 

or Perpetual 
Curates. 

Viraires, 
or Curates. 

Relisr. 

Commu- 

nities. 

1 Aix 

7 

22G 

1373 

362 

163 

Alby 

5 

1S5 

1830 

5')2 

114 

Alger 

3 

17 

1GG 

54 

22 

Audi 

4 

128 

1461 

4 ’5 

<5 

Avignon 

5 

18S 

1303 

522 

146 

Besaiv;on. . . . 

7 

300 

3003 

761 

141 

Bordeaux.... 

10 

481 

2834 

616 

219 

Bourges 

G 

278 

2020 

S26 

155 

Camli rai 

2 

121 

1240 

2S1 

.80 

Chambery.. . 

4 

65 

578 

2.84 

28 

Lyons 

G 

?SG 

2754 

704 

103 

Pari? 

G 

235 

1010 

237 

201 

Rheims 

5 

208 

2461 

216 

123 

Rennes 

4 

103 

1161 

1427 

105 

Rouen 

5 

27G 

2821 

800 

110 

Pens 

4 

153 

1350 

120 

07 

Toulouse .... 

4 

133 

1453 

247 

77 

Tours 

5 

102 

1446 

743 

153 

Totat 

112 

| 3665 

[ 31,824 

0307 | 

2210 


(2.) Protestantism . — Of the Protestant churches of 
France, two, the Reformed and the Lutheran, are recog- 
nised as state churches. The French government ap- 
propriates a certain sum of money every year for their 
support. The budget for 1861 gave, as the total sum 
of this appropriation, 1,4G2,236 francs — a little less than 
300,000 dollars. It was divided as follows, namely: 
for the salaries of Reformed pastors, 890,400 francs ; 
salaries of Lutheran pastors, 415,750 francs; in aid of 


FRANCE 


046 


FRANCE 


theological schools, 32,000 francs. The remainder 
was devoted to buildings and repairs, to the support 
of widows, and to incidental expenses. The salaries 
are allotted by law, according to the population of the 
communes, or districts. The pastors of Paris receive 
$000 francs ; pastors of communes with a population 
of over 30,000 souls have 2000 francs; from 30,000 
down to 5000 souls, 1*00 francs; below 5000 souls, 
1500 francs. Thus a pastor in one of the state church- 
es in the poorest village in France, or in a remote coun- 
try parish, is insured a salary of 300 dollars a year. 
The communes are allowed to add to the stated salary 
where they are able and willing to do so. Some of the 
parishes, especially in the departments of the Doubs, 
Pas-Rhin, Haut-Rhin, and Vosges, have funded or real 
property, the proceeds of which are devoted cither to 
the support of the pastor, or to repairs, church expens- 
es, etc. Collections for parish purposes, or for the 
poor, are taken up at the church-doors every Sunday. 
Jn general, the 'parishes have parsonages; where they 
have not, the communes are hound by law to furnish a 
subsidy for rent, unless the funds of the parish afford 
sufficient income for the purpose. “ A garden,” to cite 
the language of the law, “is not de riyueur, but the 
communes are authorized to provide it” (Napoleons 
Decree of May 5, 1800). The state also provides for 
two Protestant theological seminaries- — one at Stras- 
burg, for the Lutheran Church, and the other at Mon- 
tauban, for the Reformed Church. None hut French 
citizens can become pastors. No doctrinal dec ision or 
formulary, whether called a confession of faith or by 
any other title, can be published, or be made the basis 
of instruction, without authorization from the govern- 
ment, nor can any change of discipline be made with- 
out the same authorization. No one can he admitted 
to tlie ministry before twenty-five years of age. No 
parish can augment its number of minUters without 
the consent of the government. No religious service 
at which more than twenty persons shall assemble 
can be held except in an authorized place of worship. 
No preacher is allowed to inculpate individuals, direct- 
ly or indirectly, in his sermons, or to attack the Roman 
Catholic religion, or any other authorized by the state. 
The highest Church judicatories are, in part, filled with 
nominees of the government, and no real autonomy of 
the churches is allowed. The professors in the theo- 
logical schools, though nominated by the Church au- 
thorities, are appointed by the government. 

Deformed Church. — The highest judicatory of the Re- 
formed Church, as already stated, is the Council General 
(Central Council) at Paris. The decree of 1852, which 
established this council, ordered that it should be com- 
posed, “for the first time, of eminent Protestants ap- 
pointed by the government, together with the two old- 
est pastors in Paris.” ITow vacancies are to he filled 
was not stated. Its president for 18C8 was General 
Ikiuthevillc, of the Engineers ; secretary, M. Sayous, 
sub-director of the non-Catholic cults in the Ministry of 
"Worship. Resides them there were 11 other members. 
The Council is the organ of communication between 
the Reformed Church and the government of the state. 
Its functions arc not clearly defined, and its working, 
on the whole, has not been satisfactory. The govern- 
ing bodies of the Church, under the Central Conncil, 
are the Consistories, Synods, and Presbyterial Coun- 
cils. The whole, of France was in IS 08 divided, for 
the Reformed Church, into 104 Consistorial Districts, 
intended to embrace at least 0000 souls each, though 
this result can only be approximately readied. The 
Consistory is composed of all the ministers of the Con- 
sistorial District, and of a body of laymen elected by 
the Presbyterial Councils of towns other than the chief 
town of the parish. The Presbyterial Council of the 
chief town belongs to the Consistory ex -officio. The 
president is elected by the "Consistory, Subject to the 
approbation of the government of the state. The func- 
tions of the Consistory are to sec that church-worship 


and discipline are regularly observed ; to receive, judge 
of, and transmit to the government the acts of the Pres- 
byterial Councils; and to superintend the schools of the 
district. It has no legislative power whatever, but 
superintends the genera! interests, Loth religious and 
financial, of the parishes under its jurisdiction. It 
nominates to the government pastors for vacant par- 
ishes. '1 he Presbyterial Council is a body of laymen in 
each parish, not less than four in number, nor more 
than seven. They arc elected by the parish every 
three years. 4 he minister of the parish is president 
of the council. Its functions are to administer the 
property, order, and discipline of the parish, under the 
authority of the Consistory. The Synods are essen- 
tially ecclesiastical bodies, superintending the. spiritual 
element, as the Consistories do the general administra- 
tion of the Church, l ive consistorial churches consti- 
tute a Synodal District, and each send a clerical and 
lay deputy to the Synod, which thus consists of ten 
members. Of these Provincial Synods there are twen- 
ty-one in France. No periodical sessions are allowe d, 
nor can any session be called without the permission 
of the government, to whom the questions to be treat- 
ed at the session must be stated beforehand. A pre- 
fect, or sub-prefect, must he present at the sessions, 
which cannot last more than six days. The result of 
all these restrictions may readily be imagined. The 
Provincial Synods cither do not meet at all, or, if they 
do, their sessions have no impoit for t he life and gov- 
ernment of the Church. No National Synod is pro- 
vided for, and none, is held. Thus tire Reformed 
Church of France lacks the most vital element, of pres- 
hy terian connectional government — a General Assem- 
bly. The feebleness of t lie Church government is la- 
mentably manifest in many points. The present con- 
test about Rationalism brings this weakness out in the 
strongest light. The old French confession of faith is 
nominally the standard of doctrine, but a man may 
preach Unitaiianism, Fniversalism, or even Panthe- 
ism, and there is no power to call him to an account 
before any ecclesiastical tribunal competent to try him 
and to depose him. The Theological Seminary of the 
Reformed Church is at Montauhan, in the South of 
France (Tarn ct Garonne). No one can he a minister 
in the Reformed Church of France without a certificate 
that he has studied at one of the theological schools 
(of France or Geneva), and the diploma of bachelor in 
theology. All the regulations of the theological 
schools must be approved by the government. Ac- 
cording to Th. de Prat, Annvuire Protestant, Is68-I870 
(Paris, 1808), the statistics of the Reformed Ghurcli in 
1808 were as follows : Consistories, 104 ; parishes, 508, 
with 507 1 1 annexes f temples or oratorios, 003; schools, 
or “ salles el'asile,” 1585 ; official pastors, 000; auxil- 
iary pastors, suft’iagans, and unmoniers (chaplains), 80. 
The population reported by the Consistories (eight 
Consistories which made no report being estimated) 
amounts to 030,01 0. 

Lutheran Church. — The highest judicatories of the 
Lutheran Church are the Higher Consistory and the 
Directory. Under these are Inspections, Consistories, 
and Presbyterial Councils. The Ilir/hcr Consistory con- 
sists of 27 members, all holding office for life. It is 
composed of a president and one layman nominated 
by tlie government ; of 16 laymen chosen by the In- 
spections or Inspectoral Assemblies ; of one professor 
from tlie theological seminary, chosen by the faculty; 
and of eight pastors, who are at the same time in- 
spectors. It meets at least once a year, and at any 
other time when summoned by the government. Its 
duty is to watch over tlie constitution, discipline, and 
worship of tlie Church ; to form a final court of appeal ; 
to audit the account of lower judicatories. Its scat of 
government is Strasburg, but it is represented official- 
ly by the Consistory of Paris. The Directory consists 
of five members, also holding office for life ; the presi- 
dent, appointed by the government (who is also pres- 


FRANCE 


647 


FRANCE 


ident of the Higher Consistory) ; one lay member and 
one clerical inspector appointed by government; and 
two deputies named by the. Higher Consistory. Its 
functions are purely administrative, but that means a 
great deal in France. It nominates to the govern- 
ment all the pastors, and has full authority over the 
schools and the theological seminary, not only to name 
the p ofessors, but to direct the course of instruction. 
The Inspections are territorial districts, under the gov- 
ernment of Inspectors or Inspectoral Assemblies. Of 
those there are now eight in France, composed of one 
or more Consistories; the largest Inspection includes 
nine Consistories. The Inspectoral Assembly includes 
all the pastors embraced in the district, and an equal 
number of laymen chosen by the Consistories. The)" 
meet only at times tixed by the state. In each In- 
spection there is an ecclesiastical inspector appointed 
by the government., who convokes and presides over 
the Inspectoral Assemblies. These inspectors, under 
the authority of the Director}', visit each parish at 
least once in four years ; ordain and install ministers; 
have supervision over the publication of books for 
schools, etc. ; and, in fact, have general administrative 
supervision of the district. The Consistories of the Lu- 
theran Church of France are forty-four in number, i 
They are composed of both lay and clerical members, i 
the laymen holding office for three years. All the 
pastors of the district, with the members of the Pres- 
byterial Council of the chief city, and an equal num- 
ber of laymen chosen by the more popular parishes, | 
constitute the Consistory. The functions and jurisdic- J 
tion of the Consistories are very much the same as j 
those of the Consistories of the Reformed Church, which 
have already been described. One of the most im- 
portant points of difference between them is, that in 
the Reformed Church the Consistories nominate the 
pastors, while in the Lutheran this function is dis- 
charged by the Directory, as above stated. The pow- 
ers and duties of the Presbyterial Councils are similar 
to those of the Reformed Church. The theological 
seminary of the Lutheran Church is at Strasburg. The 
president of the Directory is ex-qfjicio director of the 
seminary. There are six professors, whose salaries 
are paid by the state. The faculty of theology are 
also professors in the Seminary of Strasburg, which 
has, besides, five other professors in philosophy and phi- 
lology. The school is well organized and conducted. 

According to the A nnuaire Protestant , the statis- 
tics of this Church in 1*08 were as follows: 44 Consis- 
tories, 203 parishes, 202 annexes , 386 temples (90 were 
subject to the simultaneum , or joint use by the Reform- 
ed Church), 713 schools, 271 official pastors, 40 vicars, 
auxiliary pastors, and aumnniers. According to the re- 
ports furnished by 42 Consistories, and estimates for 
the two other Consistories, the Lutheran population 
amounted to 305,000. 

In Algeria, the United Protestant Church (Reform- 
ed and Lutheran) lias 3 Consistories, 10 parishes (9 Re- 
formed, 7 Lutheran), 60 annexes, 25 temples or orato- 
ries, 1 1 schools, 10 official pastors (7 Reformed, 9 Lu- 
theran). 

Ind pendent Churches. — The largest body of indepen- 
dent (i. e. not state) Protestants in France is that which 
is organized under the name Union des Eylises Kvanye- 
liques dr. France (Union of Evangelical Churches of 
France). Five churches in Paris, with nine stations, 
are connected with the Union. The number of pro- 
vincial churches is 40. There are 18 additional stations 
connected with the provincial churches. The total 
membership is 2735, an average of 00 to each church. 
The largest church is that of the Taitbout, in Paris, 
with 210 members. There are seven independent 
churches not in connection with the Union, and nu- 
merous small congregations served by pastors of the 
societies. In Algeria the Union has six stations. As 
yet the Union has no theological seminary. Its can- 
didates for the ministry study at Geneva or Lausanne, 


j and aid is furnished by an education society to such 
students as need it. There is great vitality in this 
organization; it numbers Pressense, Bersier, and de 
Gasparin among its leaders. 

The Evangelical Society of France is a powerful 
auxiliary to the Union of Evangelical Churches. It 
reported for 1808 the following statistics : Expendi- 
ture, £5240 ; agents aided by its funds, nearly 50, of 
whom 11 arc pastors, 8 evangelists, and 27 teachers, 
i The Independent Evangelical Church of Lyons (not 
included in the Union) had in 1808 six places of wor- 
1 ship, with five pastors and eight evangelists. Number 
of members, 700, mostly converts from Roman Cathol- 
icism ; children in Sunday-schools, 250 ; in day-schools, 

' 300. The Church has eight libraries, an infirmary for 
the indigent, and a retreat for aged women. 

The Baptists have had societies in France for more 
than twenty years. They are in relation with the 
American Baptist Missionary Union, from whose funds 
they derive a part of theft support. Their number of 
members in 1868 was reported at about 300, mostly 
converts from Romanism ; nine churches, ten pastors, 
and perhaps forty preaching-places. 

Though there were Methodists in France before the 
beginning of the 19th century, they were not organ- 
ized as a French denomination until 1852. 1 heir Con- 
ference embraces also French Switzerland. The the- 
ological students attend the lectures of tiic theological 
faculty of the Free Church of the Canton of Yaud. 
At the seventeenth Conference, held in Paris in June, 
1868, the following statistics were reported : districts, 
3; circuits, 16; chapels and preaching- rooms, 184; min- 
isters and probationers, 30 ; colporteurs and day-school- 
masters, 20 ; local preachers, 110 ; members, 1979 ; on 
trial, 146; day-schools, 11 : Sunday-schools, 57 ; Sun- 
day-school teachers, 277 ; scholars, 2588. 

The Annuaire Protestant gives five Moravian and 
four “Anabaptist” churches. It has no statistics of 
the Darbyites, Irvingites, Ilinscliists, and other small 
sects, of which it says there are some churches in 
France. 

The Jews have 10 high rabbis, with salaries of from 
3500 to 7000 francs ; 66 rabbis, with incomes ranging 
from 800 to 1500 francs ; and 64 precentors, with allow- 
ances of from 500 to 2000 francs. The Jewish popula- 
tion in 1800 was estimated at 159,000 in France, and 
35,700 in Algeria. 

See, Herzog, Real-EncyJdopcidie, iv, 489 sq., 529 sq. ; 
Gallia Christiana in provincias ccclesiasticas distribu- 
ta opere et studio Dionysii Sammarthani [St. jMarthe] 
(Paris, 1715-25, vol. i-iii ; Opere et studio monach. cony. 
S. Mauri, 1728-70; vol. iv-xii ; 1785, vol. xiii) ; Fis- 
quet,, La France Pontificate ( Gallia Christiana ) Jli'st. 
chronoloyique et bioyrapkique des archeveques et ereques 
de tons les dioceses , etc. (Paris, 1805, vol. i ; i860, vol. 

I ii) ; Jager, Ilistoire de V Eylise Catholique en France de - 
' puis son oriyine jnsq'au Concordat de Pie VII (Paris, 

' 1803-60, vol. i-xiii); (Beza), Ilistoire ecclesiastique des 
eylises reformies du roynnme de France ; De Felice, 
l list . des Protestants de France (Paris, 1850); Vincent, 

| Vues snr le Protest antisme en France (Nisnies, 1829, 

I 2 vols.) ; Post, Memoir es pour servir a Vhistoire du 
j re veil rdiyieux des .eylises prat, de la Suisse it de la 
\ France (Paris, 1854, 2 vols.) ; Mader, Pie protestant. 
i Kirche Frankreichs iam 1787 bis 184G (cd. by Gicseler, 

| Leipzig, 1848, 2 vols.) ; Reuchlin, Das Christenthum in 
! Frankrcich (Hamburgh, 1837); Puaux, 1 list, de la Re- 
; formation Frmigaise (Paris, 1803-04, 6 vols., of popu- 
lar caste and little scientific value) ; Soldan, Gesch. des 
franz. Protest ant ismus bis zum Tode Carls IX (1853, 2 
vols.); Polenz, Gesch. des franz. Calvinismvs (Gotha, 
5 vols.). A periodical specially devoted to the history 
of French Protestantism is published by Haag (JJul- 
/etin de la Soviet e de V Ilistoire du Protest antisme Fran - 
j yais). A biographical dictionary of celebrated French 
( Protestants was also published by Haag ( La France 
t Protestante , 8 vols.). For the statistics of France, see 


FRANCFORT 


G48 


FRANCIS OF ASSISI 


Wiggers, Kirchl. Statistik , ii, CO-84 ; Xeher, Kirckl. 
Geoyraphie und Statistic , vol. i (Katisbon, 1864); La 
France Ecclisiastique (annual, Paris) gives the statis- 
tics of the Homan Catholic Church; Pe Prat, V Annu- 
aire Protest ante , 18G8-70 (Paris, 1?>GS); M‘(_Tintock, in 
The Methodist , 1861, February, March, ami April. (A. 
J. S.) 

Prancfort, See Frankfurt. 

Francis of Assisi, founder of the order of Fran- 
ciscans, was born in 1182 at Assisi, in Umbria, where 
his father, Peter Bcrnadone, was a rich merchant. 
The son was intended also for business ; but, having 
a taste for military life, he took part in a contest be- 
tween Assisi and Perugia, and was taken prisoner. 
After a year’s captivity he was released. Soon after, 
an illness brought him near the gates of death. He 
determined to renounce the world, llut, on recover- 
ing his health, he abandoned his religious life and 
plunged into gayety. Suddenly conscience-stricken, 
he vowed to live a life of poverty. The following in- 
cident illustrates the character of his religion at this 
time. “ 'Worshipping in a country church consecra- 
ted to St. Damian, he seemed to hear a voice saying, 
‘Francis, go and prepare my house, which thou seest 
falling into ruins.’ What was the man pledged to 
poverty to do ? He quietly went home, stole a horse 
from his father’s stable, then went to his father’s 
warehouse, and stole from thence silks and embroider- 
ies, with which he laded the purloined horse, and sold 
both horse and goods at the neighboring town of Fo- 
lingo. Romish casuists say that this action was justi- 
fiable by the simplicity of his heart. It is clear that 
his religious training had not instructed him in the 
ten commandments. He offered the money to the of- 
ficiating priest at St. Damian, who cautiously refused 
to take it. Francis cast the money into the mire, but 
vowed that the building should be his home until the 
divine behest had been fulfilled. II is father found 
him out, and, though Francis was twenty-five years 
old, gave him a sound whipping, and put him into 
prison in his own house. Francis was set at liberty 
by his mother during his father’s absence from home. 
He returned to St. Damian’s, and his father followed 
him thither, insisted that he should cither return 
home, or renounce before the bishop all his share in 
his inheritance, and all manner of expectations from 
his family# The son accepted the latter condition 
with joy, gave his father whatever he had in his pock- 
ets, told him he was ready to undergo blows and 
chains for the love of Jesus Christ, and went with his 
father before the bishop of Assisrto make a legal re- 
nunciation of his inheritance in form.” By the world, 
and, it would seem, by his father himself, he was re- 
garded as a madman, but the bishop viewed the enthu- 
siasm of the youth with allowance, and treated him 
with kindness. He soon after renewed his vow of 
poverty, imagining himself warned from heaven to 
do so. He begged for and labored at the restoration 
of several churches. At this time he pretended to the 
gifts of prophecy and miracles. lie soon attracted 
followers, and, associating with himself Bernard of 
Quintavallc and Peter of Catania, on the ICth of Au- 
gust, 1201), laid the first foundation of the Franciscan 
order. The number of his adherents increased rap- 
idly, and he drew up, in twenty chapters, a rule for 
his order. lie carried his rule to Home, there to 
obtain for it the sanction of pope Innocent III, who 
regarded Francis as a madman, but saw how w’ell 
fitted for his purposes such a man and such an or- 
der might be. He ordained Francis a deacon in 
1210, and gave his verbal approbation to the rule he 
had drawn up. Among his triumphs we must record 
his conversion of Clara, or St. Clare. See Clark, St. 
Born to rank and fortune, StXlare had recourse from 
her early years to ascetic practices. She heard of 
Francis, was captivated by the lustre of his piety, and, 


assisted by him, she eloped from her friends. “Al- 
though a saint, Francis was obviously deficient in the 
moral sense. They fled to the Portiuncula, a church 
which the Benedictines had now given to the Francis- 
cans. He was in his thirtieth, she in her nineteenth 
year. She was welcomed by the monks and attended 
by her spiritual guide, and took sanctuary in the 
neighboring church of St. Paul until arrangements 
could be made for her reception in a convent. Fran- 
cis, regardless of filial duty and parental authority, 
induced her two sisters, Agnes and Beatrice, notwith- 
standing the agony of her father, to follow her in her 
tlight, and to partake of her seclusion. The church 
of St. Damian became the convent of the Order of Poor 
Sisters thus established. It was at first the design 
of Francis and his associates to study how they might 
die to the world, living in poverty and solitude. But, 
now that he had reached a summit of renown and in- 
fluence. he imagined that lie had a further commis- 
sion. He consulted Silvester and Clara, who declared 
that it was revealed to them that the founder of their 
order should go forth to preach. And the Franciscans 
, became a preaching order, though the founder was an 
illiterate man. He persevered in his devotion to pov- 
j erty, though many of his followers soon showed an in- 
clination to appropriate to themselves some of the 
comforts of life. He would not permit even his 
churches to be richly decorated: they were to be low 
and unadorned. He was continually devising new 
methods of afflicting and mortifying his body. If any 
part of his rough habit seemed too soft, be sewed it 
with packthread. Unless he was sick he rarely ate 
anything that was dressed with fire, and when he did 
he usually put water or ashes upon it. lie fasted rig- 
orously eight Lents in the year” (Hook, s. v.). 

It is unnecessary to record the miracles he was said 
to have performed. In Homan Catholic phrase, he 
had a singular devotion to the Virgin Mary, whom he 
chose for the patroness of his order, and in whose hon- 
or he fasted from the feast of St. Peter and St. Paul to 
that of the Assumption. Homan writers tell us that 
he was endowed with an extraordinary gift of weep- 
ing; his eyes seemed two fountains of tears, which 
were almost continually falling from them, insomuch 
that at length he almost lost his sight. “When the 
physician prescribed that, in order to drain off the hu- 
mors by an issue, he should he burnt with a hot iron, 
Francis was very well pleased, because it was a pain- 
ful operation and a wholesome remedy ; w hen the sur- 
geon was about to apply the searing iron, Francis 
spoke to the fire, saying, ‘Brother fire, I beseech thee, 
burn me gently, that I may be able to endure thee 
be was seared very deep from the ear to the eyebrow', 
but showed no sign of pain !” 

At length, finding Europe insufficient for his zeal, 
he resolved to preach to the Mohammedans. With 
this view' he embarked, in the sixth year after his con- 
version, for Syria, but a tempest drove him upon the 
coast of Dalmatia, and lie was forced to return to An- 
cona. In 1214 he set out for Morocco, to preach to the 
famous Mohammedan king Miramolin, and went on 
his way ; but in Spain he w as detained by a fit of sick- 
ness, and by various accidents, so that he could not go 
into Mauritania. But he wrought several pretended 
miracles in Spain, and founded there some convents, 
after which he returned through Languedoc into Italy. 
Ten years after the first institution of the order in 
1219, Francis held near the Portiuncula the famous 
general chapter called the Matts, because it was as- 
sembled in booths in the fields. Five thousand friars 
met on the occasion. The growing ambition of the 
order showed itself in their praying Francis to obtain 
from the pope a license to preach everywhere, without 
the leave of the Bishops of each diocese. Francis re- 
buked them, but employed the more ambitious spirits 
on foreign missions. lie reserved for himself the mis- 
sion to Syria and Egypt, but the affairs of his order 


FRANCIS OF ASSISI 649 FRANCIS OF PAULA 


obliged him to defer his departure. Innocent III had I 
approved of his order by word of mouth. Honorius 
III, who succeeded Innocent in 1219, had appointed 
cardinal Ugolino to the post of protector of the Minor- 1 
ite brethren, and approved of their missions. Francis I 
set sail with lllmninatus of Rente and other compan- 
ions from Ancona, and landed at Acre or Ptolemais in 
Palestine. The Christian army in the sixth crusade 
lay at that time before Damiaetta. Francis was taken 
by the iniidel scouts, and brought before the sultan, 
who treated him as a madman, and sent him back to 
the Christian camp. He returned by Palestine into 
Italy, where he had the affliction to find that Elias, 
whom he had left vicar-general of his order, had intro- 
duced several novelties and mitigations, and wore him- 
self a habit of finer stuff than the rest, with a longer 
capnche or hood, and longer sleeves. Francis called 
such innovators bastard children of his order, and de- 
posed Elias from his office. Resigning the general- 
ship that year (1220), he caused Peter of Cortona to be 
chosen minister general, and after his death, in 1221, 
Elias to be restored. Francis continued always to di- 
rect the government of his order personally while he 
lived. Having revised his rule and presented it to Ho- 
norius III, it was confirmed bv a bull dated the 29th of 
November, 1223. In 1215, Count Orlando of Cortona 
had bestowed on Francis a secluded and agreeable res- 
idence in Mount Alberno, a part of the Apennines, and 
built a church there for the friars. To this solitude j 
Francis was accustomed to retire. Shortly before his 
death, according to his monkish chroniclers, he had a 
vision of Christ under the form of a seraph. “ The 
vision disappearing, left in his soul a seraphic ardor, 
and marked his body with a figure conformed to that 
of the crucified, as if his body, like wax, h id received 
the impression of a seal ; for soon the marks of the 
nails begin to appear in his hands and feet, such as he 
had seen in the image of the God-man crucified. See 
Sri o mata. His hands and feet were pierced with 
nails in the middle: the heads of the na'ls, round and 
black, were on the palms <fthe hands and forepart of the 
fet. The points of the nails, which were a little long, 
and which appeared on the other side, were bent back- 
wards on the wound which they made. lie also had on 
his right side a red wound, as if he ha d been pierced with 
a lance, which often shed sacrel blood on his tunic." 
Francis is said to have concealed this singular favor 
of heaven ever after by covering his hands with his 
h ibit, and by wearing shoes and stockings — a modesty 
which prevented others from seeing, and therefore from 
bearing witness to the marks, for whose existence we 
have no evidence. The bishop of Olm utz denounced 
the miracle as irrational. A papal bull in 1255 vindi- 
cated the claims of the miracle. “The Dominicans 
represented the whole affair as an imposture, the in- 
vention of the new order of Franciscans to raise their 
credit, but it is now generally believed in the Romish 
Church.” Worn out at last, Francis retired to Assisi. 
In a year he began to act as an itinerant preacher 
throughout Umbria, and it was “during this time that 
a woman of Bagnarea brought an infant to him that it 
might be healed. Francis laid his hands on the child 
and it recovered : that child grew to be a man, and 
that man Bon i ventura (q. v.), who proved his grati- 
tude by becoming the biographer of Francis, carefully 
recording all the wonderful circumstances of his life, 
and working them up into a beautiful fiction.” In 
tlie latter part of his life he “attributed no value to 
self-mortificatinn, in itself considered, but regarded it 
solely as a means for overcoming sensual desires and 
for promoting purity of heart. Love appeared to him 
to be the soul of all. Once, when one of the monks, 
who had carried his fasting to excess, was deprived by 
it of his sleep, and Francis perceived it, he brought 
him bread with his own hands, and exhorted him to 
eat ; and as the monk still shrunk from touching it, he 
set him the example, and ate first. On the next morn- 


ing, when he assembled his monks, he told them w hat 
he had done, and added, ‘Take not the eating, but the 
love, my brethren, for your example.’ Later in life, 
he did not shrink from preaching before the pope and 
the cardinals. ‘His words,’ says Bonaventura, ‘pen- 
etrated, like glowing fire, to the inmost depths of the 
heart.’ Once, when he was to preach before the Ro- 
man court, for wdiich occasion he had committed to 
memory a carefully written discourse, he felt all of a 
sudden as if he had forgotten the whole, so that he 
had not a word to say. But after he had openly avow- 
ed what had occurred to him, and invoked the grace 
of the Holy Spirit, he found utterance for words full 
of power, winch produced a wonderful effect on all 
present. Again, as the ascetic bent admits of being 
easily converted into a contempt of nature, so w T e can- 
not but regard as the more remarkable that love, push- 
ed even to enthusiasm, with which Francis embraced 
all nature as the creation of God ; that sympathy and 
feeling of relationship with all nature, by virtue of its 
common derivation from God as Creator, winch seems 
to bear more nearly the impress of the Hindoo than of 
the Christian religion, leading him to address not only 
the brutes, but even inanimate creatures, as brothers 
and sisters. lie had a compassion for brute animals, 
especially such as are employed in the sacred Scrip- 
tures as symbols of Christ. This bent of fanatical 
sympathy w ith nature furnished perhaps a point of en- 
trance for the pantheistic element which in later times 
found admission with a party among the Franciscans” 
(Xeander, Church History, Torrey’s transl. iv, 273 sq.). 
Francis died in 122(3, and was canonized by Gregory 
IX in 1230. II is order soon rose to great power and 
splendor. See Franciscans. His writings (epistles, 
sermons, ascetic treatises, discourses, poems, etc.), 
with his life by Bonaventura, were published by La 
Ilayc, general of the Minorites (Par. 16-11, ful.). His 
life will also be found in Wadding, Ann ales Minorum, 
vol. i (Rome, 1731) ; Voigt, Leben von Franz von Assisi 
(Tilbing. 1840); Clmvin de Malan, Vie de St. Francois 
(Par. 1811, 8vo) ; and in Bobringer, Kirche Christi in 
Biograph en, vol. ii, pt. ii, p. 489 ; Hasc, Franz von As- 
sis, ein Ileiligenbild (Lips. 1856). — Ilase, Ch. History, p. 
265; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. cent, xiii, pt. ii, ch. ii, n. 49; 
Jortin, Remarks on Eccles. History, vol. v; Hook, i?c- 
cles. Biography , v, 206. 

Francis of Borgia, a Jesuit and saint of the Ro- 
man Catholic Church, was a Spanish nobleman, born 
in Valencia in 1510. After a careful education he be- 
came a courtier of the reign of Charles V, but was 
turned to a religious life by the solemn circumstances 
attending the funeral of the empress Isabella, after 
which he became a disciple of Ignatius Loyola, and 
was appointed by him to preach the Gospel in Spain 
and Portugal. On the death of Lainez in 1565, he 
w'as elected general of the order of Jesuits. He is the 
author of many ascetic writings, and contributed much 
to the perfection of the organization of the Jesuits, 
lie would have been made pope on the death of Pius 
V, had not the state of his health prevented it. Fran- 
cis of Borgia died at Rome in 1572, and was canonized 
by Clement IX in 1671. See Vie de S. Francois de 
Boryia , by Verjus, aft^r Ribadancira (1672, 4to) ; Cre- 
tineau-Jolv, Ilistoire de la Comp, de Jesus (vols. i, ii). 
The writings of Francis were translated into Latin 
by the Jesuit Deza (Brtix. 1675, foL). — Hoefer, Noitv. 
Blog. Gin. xviii, 487. 

Francis of Paula, founder of the order of Minims, 
was born at Paula, in Calabria, in 1416. lie was 
brought tip in a Franciscan convent at St. Mark, where 
he distinguished himself by rigid asceticism. In or- 
der to exceed St. Francis himself in austerity of life, 
lie retired to a cell on the desert part of the coast, 
where he soon obtained followers, built a monastery in 
2436, and thus commenced a new order, called Hermits 
of St. Francis. Sixtus IV confirmed the statutes, and 


FRANCIS OF SALES 


650 


FRANCISCANS 


named Francis superior general, 1474. He enjoined > 
on his disciples a total abstinence from wine, flesh, and 
fish; besides which, they were always to go barefoot, 
and never to sleep on a bed. Alexander Vf changed 
the name of the order to Minims, as better expressing 
the humility professed by the new monks. Francis 
died at Plessis-les-Tours, in France, April 2, 1507, and 
was canonized by Leo X. Francis was in high favor 
with Louis XI, Charles Vlll, and Louis Xll of 
France, and established many houses of his order in 
that kingdom, w here they are called Eons Hommes . — 
Ilocfer, Sour. Hiog. Gene rale, xviii, 489; llilarian de 
Coste, Le Portrait cn petit de EL Frangois de Paul 
(Paris, 1055). 

Francis of Sales (Saint) was born near Annecy, 
Aug. 21, 15G7, and w r as carefully educated at the col- 
leges of La liochc and Annecy. He went to Paris in 
1578, and studied with great success at a Jesuit col- 
lege : afterwards he studied law at Padua. But in 
1590, much to the regret of his parents, he devoted 
himself to the Church, and in 1593 was ordained priest. 
For some years he was employed in “converting” the 
Frotestants in Savoy, and in 1599 he got the duke of 
Savoy to expel the Protestant ministers from several 
districts. lie promised Beza a cardinal's hat if lie 
•would turn Roman Catholic. In return for this ser- 
vice he was made coadjutor-bishop of Geneva; and on 
the death of the bishop of Geneva Francis succeeded 
him, and redoubled his zeal for the reform of the dio- 
cese and the monasteries. He instituted, in connec- 
tion with Madam de Chantal, the Order of the A T isita- 
tion at Annecy in 1G10. He died at Lyons, Xov.28, 
1G22, and was canonized in 1GG5. The Roman writers 
report the number of converts to Popery through his 
means as 72, GOO. His writings are published in a 
complete edition under the title (Fnvres de St. Fran- 
gois de Sales (Paris, 1823, G vols. 8vo ; another edition, 
Paris, 1834, 16 vols.). The abbe Migne has published 
a new edition, 7 vols. royal 8vo (1861 sq.). His Traite 
de V amour de. Dieu (On the Love of God), and his Phi- 
loti tea, or Introduction a la vie devote, are greatly ad- 
mired, have passed through scores of editions in 
French, and are translated into most of the European 
languages. There arc many lives of him ; the latest 
arc Ilamon, Vie de St. Frangois de Sales (Paris, 1854, 
2 vols. 8vo), and Perenncs, 1 list, de St. Frangois de 
Sales (Paris, 1864, 2 vols.). 

Francis Xavier. See Xavier. 

Francis, Converse, D.D., a Unitarian minister, 
was horn in West Cambridge, Mass., in 179G, and was 
educated at Harvard, where be passed A.B. in 1815. 
After completing his theological course at the divinity 
school in Cambridge, he became (1819) pastor of the 
Unitarian church in Watertown, Mass., where he re- 
mained until 1812, when he was made Parkman pro- 
fessor of pulpit eloquence and pastoral care at Cam- 
bridge. He. filled this post acceptably until his death, 
April 7, 1863. He published The IJfe rf John Eliot, 
Apostle to the Indians (1S3G), in Sparks’s Collection of 
American Biography; several memoirs in the Collec- 
tions of the Massachusetts Historical Society, and a 
number of occasional discourses. He was also a fre- 
quent contributor to periodicals. — Appleton, Annual 
Cyclopedia, 1863, p. 202. 

Francis I, king of France, son of Charles of Or- 
leans. count of Angouleme, and Louisa of Savoy, was 
born at Cognac Sept. 12, 1 194, and died at Rambouillet 
March 31, 1517. He came to the throne, on the death 
of his father-in-law, Louis Xll, Jan. 1, 1515. Ho made 
a concordat with pope Leo X which sacrificed the in- 
dependence of the Gallican Church, and w r as resisted 
by the Parliament of France until its registry was 
compelled by the arbitrary measures of Francis. In 
1519 he was a candidate foT the. imperial throne of 
Germany, made vacant by the death of Maximilian 
II, hut was beaten by Charles V, and thereafter gave 


expression to his disappointed ambition in efforts to 
humble his successful rival, which led to almost ineer- 
sant wars between them, and wasted the lives and 
treasures of his subjects without adding to his fame or 
possessions. Francis sought to secure the support of 
Henry VI II of England, ami a personal interview was 
held between these monarchs on a plain near Calais, 
called, from the magnificence displayed, the “ Field 
of the Gloth of Gold ;” hut the crafty Wolsey managed 
to nullify the results of the meeting. The contests 
w r hich followed were generally unfortunate for Fran- 
cis, who in 1525 led an army into Italy, and -was de- 
feated and made prisoner at the battle of Pavia. He 
v’as only released on signing a treaty dishonorable to 
himself and his country, which lie secretly protested 
against, and w hen once more at home openly repudia- 
ted. A powerful combination, called the lloly League, 
was formed to curb the ambition and power of Charles, 
but failed, chiefly from lack of energy and discretion 
on the part of Francis, whose mind was too much un- 
der the control of favorites and mistresses. "With al- 
ternations of success awd failure, of truce and war, 
these conflicts continued during the life of Francis, 
who sought aid of the Turks, the pope, the English, 
and the German Protestants, and abandoned the one 
or the ether ally as tiie vacillations of feeling, the 
promptings of policy, or the influence of favorites de- 
termined. It is said that he finally died from the ef- 
fects of a disease which an injured husband found 
means of communicating to him. Francis w'as a pa- 
tron of artists and literary men, and his name is justly 
i associated with the renaissance of literature and art; 

1 but be was despotic, devoted to pleasure, and grossl}* 
licentious — now inclining to religious toleration, now 
witnessing himself the torch applied to light the fires 
of the stake; in 1531 an ally of the Protestant “ league 
of Smalcald," in 1545 permitting a most atrocious per- 
secution of the peaceful Vaudois, his life presents a 
picture wherein the virtues of the brave chevalier arc 
overlapped and almost hid by vices that darkened the 
lustre of his early fame, and left their traces in the 
corrupt morals of successive reigns. — Wright, History 
of France (London, 3 vols. 4to), i, 626-676; Sismondi, 
ilistoire d<s Fravgais (Bruxelles, 1849, 18 vols. Svo ; 
see Index in vol. xviii); Ranke, History of the Papacy 
(1851, 2 vols. Svo); Iloefer, Nguv. Blog. Gencralc , xviii, 
510-530. (J.W.M.) 

Franciscans, the name of several monastic orders 
j which follow the rule of Francis of Assisi (q. v.). Fran- 
cis himself founded three orders: an order of friars, 
called Minorites ( Fratres M 'mores'), an order of nuns 
[see Clarisses], and an order of Tertiaries (q. v.). 
These orders split into a large number of divisions, 
some of which even assumed other names, and bc- 
came entirely indepen- 
i dent of the original 
Franciscans. See Min- 
ims; Capuchins. 

1. Franciscan Friars . 

— This order was found- 
ed in 1210; in that year, 
at least, F raneis gave 
the rule which united 
his followers into a mo- 
nastic community. As, 
however, their life in 
common commenced be- 
fore that period, sonic 
’Historians assume the zr— . 
j year 1208 or 1206 as the 
year of foundation. The V-V 
origin of the Francis- =|| 
cans marks a turning- 
point in the history of 
monasticism, for they 
were the first and most 
prominent ropresenta- 



St. Francis. 


FRANCISCANS 


G51 


FRANCISCANS 


tives of the mendicant (q. v.) orders. Francis with 
some difficult}', obtained the papal approbation of 
his order [see Francis of Assisi] in 1210, and in 
1215 he received also the sanction of the Council of 
Lateran. The growth of the order was astonishingly 
rapid. At the lirst General Chapter, held in 1219, 
more than 5000 friars assembled, and it was resolved 
to send out preachers of repentance to Germany, 
France, Spain, England, Hungary, and Greece. In 
1220 the rule of the order was written down, and at 
the same time the order received extensive privileges 
from Honorius III. Francis resigned the burden of 
the generalship in 1220. 11 is first successors, Peter of 

Corbona, and Elias, assumed, however, only the title 
of ministers general, regarding Francis, notwithstand- 
ing his resignation, as the chief superior. Elias intro- 
duced various changes ; the monks assumed a less 
coarse garb, built beautiful churches and convents, and 
commenced to cultivate science. Francis had severe- 
ly censured these mitigations, but after his resignation 
the} r soon began to prevail. The advocates of the prim- 
itive rigor, at their head Anthony (q. v.) of Padua, suc- 
ceeded, however, in enlisting the sympathy of pope 
Gregory IX, by whom Elias was deposed. But a few 
years later (1236) Elias was re-elected general, and re- 
turned to his old principles of mitigation. The rigor- 
ous party, and especially their leader, Caesarins (q. v.) 
of Spires (hence their name, Ccesartites), were subject- 
ed to a cruel persecution, by which Cassarins even lost 
his life (1239). This, however, caused the second de- 
position of Elias, and the first two of his successors fa- 
vored the strict party. But Crcscentius of Jesi, elected 
in 1244, followed the footsteps of Elias, and the Csesar- 
ines were again persecuted until Bonaventura (q. v.) 
was elected general in 1256. lie gradually restored 
the strict discipline, and raised the order to a degree 
of prosperity which it had never enjoyed before. The 
ascendency of the strict party lasted until the general- 
ship of Matheo di Aquas Spartas, who again sided with 
the other party, which henceforth remained predom- 
inant until the whole order permanently split into two 
parties. The advocates of the primitive rigor sought 
to form themselves into independent congregations, 
such as the Celestines, the Minorites of Narbonno, and 
the Spirituals [see Discalceati, 13], but they suffered 
from their opponents an almost uninterrupted persecu- 
tion. The Celestines (established in 1294) were con- 
demned by the Inquisition as heretics in 1307, the 
Minorites of Narbonne and the Spirituals in 1318. The 
Minorite Clarenines, founded in 1302 by the ex-Ccles- 
tine Angelo di Cordona, obtained toleration as an inde- 
pendent congregation, and existed as such until 1517, 
when they united with the Observants. Two other 
congregations, the Minorites of the Congregation of 
Philip of Majorca, and the Minorites of John of Valees 
and Gentile of Spoleto, were of very short duration. 
In 1368 Paoletto di Foligno founded a new congrega- 
tion, which followed the unaltered rule of Francis, 
spread rapidly, was approved by the popes, and thus 
caused the order of Franciscan friars to split into two 
main branches, the Conventuals, who followed the 
mitigated rule, and the Observants, who adhered to 
the primitive strict rule. The efforts of the Convent- 
uals to suppress their opponents failed, for the latter 
were confirmed by the Council of Constance in 1415, 
received the permission to hold General Chapters, and 
obtained possession of the church of Portiuncula, the 
celebrated birthplace of the order. From both the 
Observants and Conventuals other congregations 
branched off. The consequent confusions in the order 
induced pope Julius II to command by a bull all con- 
gregations to unite either with the Observants or Con- 
ventuals. The former received also, in 1517, from Leo 
X, the right to elect the general of the whole order, 
while the Conventuals could only elect a minister gen- 
eral, whose election had to be ratified by the general. 
The following independent congregations joined the 



Conventual Franciscan. 


Observant Franciscan. 


Observants in consequenee of the measures of Julius 
II and Leo X: the Minorites of Peter of Villacrezes, 
founded in 1390 upon Mount Celia ; the Minorite Colet- 
tans, founded by the Clarissc Colette of Corbie, in 
Savoy; the Minorite Amadeists, founded by the Span- 
iard Amadeo in 1457. Some congregations became 
extinct before the sixteenth century; thus the Minor- 
ites of Philip of Berbegal (Minorites of the Little Cowl, 
della Capucciola) existed only from 1426 1434, the 
Minorites Caperolans from 1475 to 1481, the Minorites 
of Anthony of Castel St. Jean, who were suppressed 
soon after their foundation in 1475. The Minorites of 
Mathias of Tivoli, founded in 1495, were united with 
the Conventuals. The Minorites of Juan de la Puebla, 
founded in Spain in 1 189, joined in 1566, when they 
counted fourteen convents, the Observants, but contin- 
ued to remain a separate province with a number of 
peculiarities. The Minorites of John of Guadeloupe 
(a disciple of Juan de la Puebla), also called Discalceate 
Minorites of the Cowl, or Minorites of the Iloly Gos- 
pel, were founded in Spain in 1494, and united with 
the Observants in 1517 ; but they assumed the name 
Reformed Observants, and formed two separate prov- 
inces, which gradually increased to twelve (in Spain, 
Portugal, Italy, and America). They still have a proc- 
urator general at Rome. An Italian Congregation 
of the Striet Observance ( R’formnti ) was founded #n 
1525, and still exists ; a French Congregation, called 
liccottefs, by the Duke of Never* in 1592. The most 
rigorous among the congregations of Reformed Ob- 
servants was that founded by Deter of Alcantara in 
1540. It spread especially in Italy and Spain, was 
joined by the Pascha sites, or Reformed Minorites of 
St. Paschasius, and then formed into a province, which 
was afterwards divided into several. This branch of 
the Reformed Observants had also in Rome a procura- 
tor general. At present it lias only a small number 
of convents. In 1852 some Observants of Westphalia 
received papal permission to erect convents of this 
congregation in Germany, but they soon fell out with 
the bishops, and then also with the pope, and at the 
request of the bishops the incipient organization was 
suppressed by the Prussian government. The Fran- 
ciscan friars have always been, and still are, very nu- 
merous. In the eighteenth century they counted 
more than 180,000 members, in 9000 convents. The 
Conventuals, by far the less numerous, had in 1789 
about 30 provinces, with about 15,000 monks. 

“As a literary order, the Franciscans have chiefly 
been eminent in the theological sciences. The great 
school of the Scotists takes its name from John Duns 
Scotus [see Scores], a Francisean friar, and it has 
been the pride of this order to maintain his distinctive 
doctrines both in philosophy and in theology against 


FRANCISCANS 


652 


FRANCKE 


the rival school of the Thomists, to which the Domin- ! 
ican order gave its allegiance. Sec Tiiomists. In 
the Nominalistic controversy the Thomists were lor 
the most part Conceptualists ; the Franciscans adhered ! 
to the rigid Realism. See Nominalism. In the 1 
Free-will question the Franciscans strenuously resisted 
the Thomist doctrine of ‘ predetermining decrees.’ In- 1 
deed, all the greatest mimes of the early Scotist school 
are the Franciscans, St. Bonaventure, Alexander de 
Hales, and Ockham. The single name of Roger Ba- 
con, the marvel of mediaeval letters, the divine, the 
philosopher, the linguist, the experimentalist, the 
practical mechanician, would in itself have sufficed to 
make the reputation of his order, had his contempora- 
ries not failed to appreciate his merit. Two centuries 
later the great cardinal Ximenes was a member of this 
order. The popes Nicholas IV, Alexander V, Sixtus 
IV, the still more celebrated Sixtus V, and the well- 
known Ganganelli, Clement XIV, also belonged to 
the institute of St. Francis. In history this order is 
less distinguished ; but its own annalist, Luke Wad- 
ding, an Irish Franciscan, bears a deservedly high 
reputation as a historian. In lighter literature, and 
particularly poetry, we have already named the found- 
er himself as a sacred poet. Jacopone da Todi, a 
Franciscan, is one of the most characteristic of the 
mediaeval hymn-writers ; and in later times the cele- 
brated Lope de Vega closed his eventful career as a 
member of the third order of St. Francis. We may 
add that in the revival of art the Franciscan order 
bore an active, and, it must be confessed, a liberal and 
enlightened part” (Chambers, Cyclopaedia, s.v.). 

No order of monks, save the Benedictines, has had 
so many members as that of the Franciscans. About 
fifty years after its foundation it reckoned no fewer 
than 33 ‘“provinces,” the aggregate number of con- 
vents in which exceeded 8000, while the members fell 
little, if at all, short of 200,000. Some idea, indeed, 
of the extraordinary extension of this remarkable in- 
stitute may be formed from the startling fact that, in 
the dreadful plague of the Black Death in the follow- 
ing century, no fewer than 121,000 Franciscans are 
said to have fallen victims to their zeal for the care 
of the sick, and fertile spiritual ministration to the dy- 
ing! r Ihe Deformation destroyed a large number of 
its convents; but, on the other hand, it spread so rap- 
idly that at the beginning of the 18th century it still 
numbered 115,000 monks in 7000 monasteries, and 
28,000 nuns in 1000 convents. 

“The supreme government of the Franciscan order, 
which is commonly said to be the especial embodiment 
of the democratic element in the Roman Catholic 
Church, is vested in an elective general, who resides 
at Home. The subordinate superiors arc, first, the 
‘ provincial,’ who presides over all the brethren in a 
province; and, secondly, the ‘guardian,’ who is the 
head of a single convent or community. These offi- 
cers are elected only for two years. The provincial 
alone has power to admit candidates, who are subjected 
to a probation of two years [see Novitiate], after 
which they arc, if approved, permitted to take the 
vows of the order. Those of the members who- art; 
advanced to holy orders undergo a preparatory course 
of study, during which the}' are called ‘scholars and 
if eventually promoted to the priesthood they are 
styled ‘fathers’ of the order, the title of the other 
members being ‘brother’ or ‘lay brother’” (Cham- 
bers, Cyclopadi i). 

2. Statistics . — At present the number of Frarcis- 
cans is much smaller than it was in former times. 
It exists in Italy, France, Austria, Belgium, Eng- 
land, Ireland, Holland, Switzerland, Prussia, Bava- 
ria, Poland (51 convents in 1843), Bussia, Turkey, 
Ionian Isles, Greece, Mexico (fit) convents in 1843), 
in most of the states of Cclitral and South Amer- 
ica, Ghina, India, Egypt, Tripoli, Tunis, Morocco, in 
Australia, and Polynesia. In the United States of 


America there are Observants in the dioceses of Ne\^ 
York, Buffalo, Philadelphia, Alton, Cincinnati, and 
Louisville. The principal convent of the Regular Ob- 
servants is Ara Cceli ; that of the Reformed, St. Fran- 
cisco a Ripa — both at Rome. The Conventuals have 
convents in Italy, Austria (45 convents and 455 mem- 
bers in 1843), Bavaria, Switzerland, Poland, and the 
United States of America (in Philadelphia). Their 
principal convent is at Rome (the Twelve Apostles’). 
The superiors now residing in Rome are a general of 
the Observants, a minister general of the Conventuals, 
a procurator general ot' the Reformed Franciscans, a 
procurator general of the Alcantarines, a general of the 
Capuchins, and a general of the Tertiaries. Together, 
all these branches of Franciscans had in 18C2 about 
3G00 houses and 50,000 members. 

See Herzog, Iical-Kncyklopadie , iv, 4GC; Wetzer u. 
Welte, Kirchen-Lexikon , iv, 12G; Henrion-Fchr, Gesck. 
der Monchsorden , vol. i; llelvot, Ordres Religieux, s. 
v. ; Wadding, Annalcs Minorum (Rome, 1731-41, vol. 
i-xvii, reaching to 1540; continued hv De Luca to the 
year 1553); Dorn, dc Gubernatis, Orbis Seraphicus , s. 
historia de tribus ordin. a S. Francisco institutis (Rom. 
1G82) ; Ozanam, Les PoHes Frauciscains en Italie au 
13c steel e (Paris, 1852) ; P. Karl vein heil. Aloys, Jahr- 
buck der Kirche (Ratisbon, 18G2), gives an alphabetical 
list of all the convents. (A. J. S.) 

Francisco de Vittoria, a Spanish theologian, 
was horn at Vittoria, and died at Salamanca August 
14, 1549. He completed his studies at Paris, enter- 
ed the order of St. Dominic, and returned to Ins na- 
tive country to teach. Ilis Theobgiccr Prelectiones (of 
which there have been several editions; last one, Ant- 
werp, 1G04, 2 vols. 8vo) embrace divers treatises, lie 
published also Confessionario , etc. (Salamanca, 1562, 
12mo ): — Instruccion y Refugio dd Anima (Salamanca, 
1552, 8vo) ; and left in MS. Commentariu in inJversam 
iSnmmam Theologve Saudi Thomce et iv lib. Sentcntia - 
rum.- — lloefer, A r ouv. Liog. Gin. xviii, 540. (J. W. M.) 

Francke, August Hermann, an eminently pi- 
ous divine and philanthropist of Germany, was born at 
Lubec March 23, 1GG3, and studied theology and phi- 
losophy at the universities of Erfurt, Kiel, and Leip- 
sic ; and Hebrew, with great success, at Hamburg. 
In 1085, in connection with Paul Anton, he established 
at Leipsic the Collegium Pldlobiblicitm , for the study of 
the Bible with practical exegesis. It met with great 
success, but made him many enemies. In lGtf7 he 
went to Luneburg to study exegesis with Sandhagcn, 
and here he imbibed a deep spiritual experience. The 
aims of his whole life from this time were purely Chris- 
tian ; all his labors and studies were consecrated to the 
glory of God. In 1G88 he taught school in Hamburg, 
and laid the basis of his subsequent mastery of the art 
of teaching. After visiting Speller, from whom he de- 
rived comfort and strength in the Christian life, he re- 
turned- to Leipsic in 1G89, where he gave exegetical 
lectures on St. Paul’s epistles. Crowds attended them, 
and. a new impulse was given to the study of the Bi- 
ble. Ilis instructions developed also a new’ religious 
spirit among the students. Opposition was soon awak- 
ened, and he and his friends were stigmatized as pie- 
tists. In 1090 his lectures were arrested by the facul- 
ty. He then “accepted an invitation to preach at Er- 
furt, where his sermons attracted such numbers (among 
them many Roman Catholics) that the elector of Meutz, 
to whose jurisdiction Erfurt then belonged, ordered 
him to leave the city within twenty-four hours. On 
this he went to Ilalle (1G92) as professor in the new 
university, at first of the Oriental languages, and af- 
terwards of theology. At the same time he became 
pastor of Glaucha, a suburb of Halle, the inhabitants 
of which he found sunk in the deepest ignorance and 
wretchedness, and for whose benefit he immediately 
began to devise schemes of usefulness. He first in- 
structed destitute children in his owm house, and gave 


FRAN CEE 


653 


FRANCKE 


them alms ; lie then took into his house some orphans, j 
the number of whom rapidly increased. In this char- 
itable work he was aided by some benevolent citizens 
of Halle, and his charitable institutions increased from 
year to year. In 1698 was laid the lirst stone of the 
buildings which now form two rows eight hundred 
feet long. Sums of money poured in to him from all 
quarters ; and frequently, when reduced to the utmost 
embarrassment in meeting the expense, the providence 
of God, in which he implicitly trusted, appeared for his 
relief. A chemist, whom he visited on his death-bed, 
left him the recipe for compounding several medicines, 
which afterwards yielded an annual income of from 
twenty thousand to thirty thousand dollars, by which 
he was enabled to prosecute his benevolent undertak- 
ings without any assistance from government' ’ 

The following account of the several institutions 
founded by Franckc is taken from an excellent article 
by professor S to ever, in the Evangelical Quarterly Re- 
view, April, 1868 : 

1. The Orphan House engaged Francke’s most assid- 
uous attention. The main edifice, six stories high 
and 159 feet wide, was the largest in the city, colossal 
in proportions, handsomely finished, and imposing in 
appearance. Connected with this were other build- 
ings, adapted to the various wants of the children, and 
intended to accommodate upwards of 1009 orphans. 
This was erected without capital, without soliciting the 
funds for the purchase of the material, or for the pay- 
ment of the workmen. The Lord, from day to day, in 
answer to prayer, supplied everything that was re- 
quired. In 1704 it was educating 125 orphans; at a 
subsequent period, as many as 500. 2. The Normal 

Seminary , designed for the education of teachers. Poor 
young men received gratuitous instruction and board- 
ing, and, as an equivalent, rendered services in the 
Orphan 1 louse. In 1704 there were seventy-five stu- 
dents in this department. The course of instruction 
extended to five years. For its maintenance no con- 
tributions were ever asked. 3. The Divinity School 
grew out of the necessity of assisting in their studies 
indigent students in theology. From the very first 
Francke had employed the services of these voting 
men studying in the university as his co-laborers in 
the Orphan House and the schools for the poor. Many 
were thus prepared for the ministry. They received 
special instruction from Francke and other professors 
in the university, and funds came in freely for their I 
support. In this institution many of the earlier Amor- i 
ican Lutheran ministers were trained. 4. The Seven j 
Schools , partly designed for the children of citizens who 
were able to pay tuition, and partly for those in the 
humble walks of life. In 1704, the pupils in these ! 
schools, independently of the orphan children, amount- 
ed to 800, the teachers to 70. 5. The Royal Pedago- 

gium , an institution designed for the sons of noblemen 
and men of wealth. Its benefits were subsequently 
extended to others. The school at first consisted of 
only twelve pupils, but in 1701 numbered seventy 
scholars and seventeen teachers. Instruction was here 
communicated in the ancient and modern languages, 
the sciences, and in literature. 6. The Collegium Ori- 
entate , designed to advance the critical study of the 
Scriptures in the Oriental languages in 1704, consisted 
of thirteen individuals, but accessions to the number 
were made from time to time. 7. The Institution to 
provide free Board for poor Students. This was a most 
excellent feature in Francke’s operations. Without 
an}' special resources, he furnished, at first, gratuitous 
boarding to twelve young men ; the number gradually 
increased, until nearly one hundred regularly sat down 
to their meals in the great hall of the Orphan House. 
8. The Book-store and Publishing Department , small in 
the beginning, expanded till it became one of the 
most extensive enterprises of the kind in Germany. 
Not only were school-books issued, but standard relig- 
ious books, and also works in the Hebrew and Orien- 


tal languages. The fonts in the Greek, Hebrew, Syr- 
iac, and Arabic characters, in the course of time, were 
the most complete in the country. The presses were 
also extensively used for printing the Scriptures. In 
the early history of the American Lutheran Church, 
the Bible, through this instrumentality, was furnished 
to hundreds who were destitute of the Word of Life. 
This department always sustained itself, as the greater 
part of the labor was performed bv the older boys in 
the school, all of whom were trained to industrious 
habits. 9. The Chemical Laboratory and Apothecary 
Department. Occasional cases of sickness, at the be- 
ginning, rendered it necessary to make provision for 
such exigencies. This department soon became very 
much enlarged. A dispensary, with separate rooms 
for putting up medicines connected with it, was exten- 
j sively used by the people of llalle. 10. Other Klee - 
' mosynary Departments. In these are included various 
' benevolent agencies, viz. The Infirmary ; A Home for 
indigent Widows ,* An Institution for the care of the Poor 
in Glaucha; A Dome for itinerant Beggars. In 1714, 
1775 scholars and 108 teachers were connected with 
the different schools under Francke’s superintendence. 
At the present time there are nearly 4CU0. and a corps 
of 200 teachers. 

Tho whole establishment forms one of the noblest 
monuments of Christian faith, benevolence, and zeal ; 
and the philological and exegetieal labors of Francke 
are gratefully acknowledged by Biblical scholars of 
the present day, whose views ot‘ the doctrines of reve- 
lation widely (lifter from his. In his Collegia Biblica , 
at Halle, there was a return from human forms and 
systems to the sacred Scriptures, as the pure and only 
source of faith, and the substitution of practical relig- 
ion for scholastic subtleties and unfruitful specula- 
tions. Thus Scripture interpretation again became, 

I as among the first Reformers, the basis of theological 
study. His labors as a lecturer were as industrious 
and thorough as if he had no other occupation ; the 
philanthropist never trespassed on the student in his 
well-balanced life. 

After a life full of labor, faith, zeal, and usefulness, 
Francke died at llalle June 8, 1727. Among his writ- 
ings are Mannductio ad Lectionem Seriptitras Sacne 
(llalle, 1693, 1704; Loud. 1706; also, translated, with 
life of Francke by Jacques, Lond. 1813, Svo): — Obser- 
vationes Biblica* (Halle, 1695, Svo) : — Pralectiones Her- 
meneutics (Halle, 1717, 8vo): — J lethodus Studii Theo - 
logic i (Halle, 1723, Svo); besides many practical works, 
among which we have, in English, his Nieotlemus , a 
Treatise against the Fear of Man (Lond. 1709, 12mo): 
— Footsteps of Divine Providence (London, 1787, Svo). 
For the life of Francke, and accounts of the philan- 
thropic institutions founded by him, see biographies 
by Guericke (.4. II. Francke , tine Denkschrift. Halle, 
1827), Leo (Zwickau, 1818), Koch (Breslau, 1854), Nie- 
niever ( Uebersicht von Francke' s Leben , etc., llalle, 
1778); Life of Francke (Christ. Family Library, Lond. 
12mo) ; Princeton Rev. 1830, p. 408 ; Stoevcr, in Fvang. 
j Qu. Review , 1863 ; Kramer, Beitrdge z. Oesch. Francke' s 
(Halle, 1861), from MSS. recently found in the Orphan 
House, containing, among other matter, an account 
by Francke of “ the Beginning and Progress of his 
Conversion a chronological summary of the princi- 
j pal events in Francke’s life, also written by himself, 
and the correspondence between Francke and Spener ; 
Hurst, History of Rationalism , eh. iii. See also Pie- 
tism. 

Francke, Theophil August, son of August 
Hermann Francke, was born at Halle March 21, 1696. 
j and died Sept. 2, 1769. In 1720 he was made pastor 
of the House of Correction in llalle, in 1723 adjunct 
to the faculty of theology, and in 1727 succeeded his 
i father as diocesan inspector and a director in the Or- 
phan House and paedagogium, and subsequently be- 
I came archdeacon and consistorial counsellor to the 
i king of Prussia. He was the editor of several works, 


FRANCKEN 


G54 


FRANK 


and wrote introductions to Niekamp’s Missions-Ge- J 
schichte and the Canstein Bibel, and published a con- 
tinuation of the memoirs of Danish missionaries in the 
East Indies. — Iloefer, Xouv. Blog. Generate, xviii, 572. ! 
(J.W. M.) 

'Francken, .ffigidius, was probably bom at Dort, 
where his hither, Rev. llenricus Francken, was settled 
from 1002 to 1704. The son was called in 1704 to take 
charge of a church at Kijsoert. Having labored here 
nine years, he accepted a call to Maassluis, where he 
exercised his ministry till removed by death in 1743. 
He was warmly attached to the Yoetian party in the 
Deformed Church. He was a zealous advocate of 
their views, and was highly esteemed by the party, 
lie insisted much on experimental and practical relig- 
ion. lie excelled in analyzing the workings of the 
human heart, and in exposing to view its hidden re- 
cesses. His writings, though not wholly free from 
mysticism and asceticism, were productive of great 
good. Ilis work on ascetic theology, entitled lleilige 
Godgeteerdheid, published in 1719, was frequently re- 
printed ; this was also the case with his Kern der God- 
geteerdheid. His Witte Ketir steen of tten Leredenene 
appeared in 1724. Several other volumes on practical 
religion were published by him. Their titles are suf- 
ficiently quaint, and remind us of Rutherford’s mode 
of expression. Ilis brother Peter was settled at Geer- 
tniidenberg from 1G95 to 1728. See Glasius, Godgc- 
leerd Xederland , biz. 471 en verv. (Tc ’s Hertogcn- 
bosch, 1851) ; Geschiedenis der Xederlanelsche llervorm- 
de Kerk door Ypeij en Dermont. Ill Deel, biz. 30G en 
verv. (Te Breda, 1824) ; Geschiedenis van de Predik- 
knnde in de Protest antische Kerk van Xederland door J. 
llartog , Predikant lij de Docjisgezlnde Gemeente te Za - 
ctndam (Amsterdam, 1805). (J. P. AY .) 

Francken, Christian, a German divine, sur- 
named the weathercock from the instability of his re- 
ligious opinions, was born at Gardeleben in 1549, and 
died about the close of that century. He was first a 
Lutheran, then became a Jesuit, afterwards returned 
to the Lutheran faith, then became a Socinian, and 
finally a Roman Catholic again. The most important 
of his writings is Colloquium Jesniiicnm , etc. (Leipzig, 
1579 and 1580), a severe satire on the Jesuits. — Iloefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Ginirate , xviii, 46G-7 ; Rose, Xew Biog. 
Diet, vii, 439. (J. W. 31.) 

Franco. See Boniface YII. 

Francois, Laurent, a French abbe, was born 
Nov. 2, 1G98, at Arinthod (F ranch e-Com te), and died 
at Paris Feb. 24, 1782. lie was for some time a chev- 
alier of St. Lazarus, but, quitting that society, went to 
Paris, and engaged in teaching. He there composed 
several books, defending Christianity against the at- 
tacks of the philosophers, which attracted the atten- 
tion of Yoltairc, who sought to cast ridicule upon their 
author, but only succeeded in giving him a more prom- 
inent position in the list of apologists. His principal 
works arc, Les Preuves de la Religion de Jesns-Christ, 
contre les spinosistes et delates (Par. 1751, 4 vols. 12mo) : 
— Defense de la Religion Chrethnne eon/re les difficidtls 
des incridnles (Paris, 1755, 2 vols. 12mo) : — Kxamcn du 
Catichisme de Vhonm te homme , etc. (Brussels and Paris, 
17G4, 12mo) : — Riponse anr difpadles propose es eontre 
la religion Chritieime par Rousseau, etc. (Paris, 

17G5, 12mo): — Examen des f aits ani serrent de fonele- 
ment it la religion Chritienne , etc. (Paris, 17G7, 3 vols. 
Lino) : — Observations snr la “ Philosophic de Vllistoire ” 
et snr te “ Dietionnaire phi lose,] thique ,” arec des reponses 
a phmeurs di fault is (Paris, 1770, 2 vols. 8vo). — lloe- 
for, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xviii, 547 ; Rose, Xew Gen- 
eral Biog. Diet, vii, 440. (J.W. 31.) 

Francois de Toulouse, a French theologian 
and preacher, lived in the latter half of the 17th cen- 
tury, and was notably zealous in striving to bring the 
Protestants of the Ceveuues hack to the Roman faith. 
He belonged to the order of Capuchin monks, of which 


he became provincial. Of his writings, we name Lb 
Parfait Missionair e (Paris, 1GG2, 2 vols. 4to) : — Lc Mis- 
sionaire Apostolique (Paris, 1G64, 8 vols. 8vo) : — Ser- 
mons snr les Fetes des Saints (Paris, 1G73, 2 vols. 8vo); 
Sermons sur les fetes et les mysferes de Jisus-Christ et de 
la Sainte Yierge (Paris, 1G73, 8vo). — Iloefer, Xouv. Bi- 
og rajihie Generate , xviii, 543-4. (J. W. 31.) 

Francus, or Frank, Sebastian, a so-called en- 
thusiast of the times of the Reformation, was hern 
about 1500 at Donauwerth. lie was first a Roman 
priest, then a Lutheran minister, afterwards soap man- 
ufacturer and printer, always a thinker and writer, 
lie anticipated a class of modern divines in certain 
views: e. g. extolling the spirit of Scripture in dis- 
tinction from the letter; viewing religion in a thor- 
oughly subjective way; holding that one believes 
’ only on the united testimony of one’s heart and con- 
science. Well read in ancient and mystical philoso- 
phy, he imbibed from it a sort of phtistic pantheism, 
lie held that 'whenever man passively submits to God, 
then God becomes incarnate in him. The divines 
i at Smalcald (1510) requested Melancthon to write 
i against him, and signed a severe declaration al out 
his writings ‘‘as the devil’s favorite and special blas- 
phemer.” He was driven out of Strasburg and Ulm, 
j and died at Basle 1543. An account of him may 
1 e found in Wald, De Vita Franci (Erlangen, 1793) ; 
t Ch. K. am Ende, Xaehlese zu F.'s Lelen v. Sehriften 
; (Nurenih. 170G). 8ee also Herzog, Re al-Encyktep. iv, 
j 450; Erbkum, Gtseh. d. protest. Sehten bn Zdtalter der 
Reformation ; C. A. Hasc, Seb. Franck von Word , eler 
Schwarmgeist (Leip. 18G9) ; Hase, Ch. J Ft story, § 373 ; 
Bayle, Dictionary , s. v. 

Frank, Jacob (Jankicw Lelouicz ), founder of the 
Jewish sect of the Franlists , was born in Poland in 
1712. While a young man he travelled through the 
Crimea and neighboring parts of Turkey, where lie 
received the surname of Frank, given by the Turks to 
Europeans, and which he retained. Having returned 
to Poland in 1750, he acquired great reputation as a 
Kabhalist, and settled in Podolia, where he was soon 
surrounded by adepts, among •whom were several rab- 
bis. Ilis most zealous followers were among the 
Jewish communities of Landskron, Busk, Osiran, 
Opotschnia, and Kribtschin. lie preached a new 
doctrine, the fundamental principles of which he had 
borrowed from that of Sabotha’i-Seri , and which lie 
explained in a Look which his disciples h oked upon 
as directly inspired from God. The rabbis of I’cdo- 
lia, jealous of his influence, caused him all sorts of an- 
noyances, and had him arrested, but lie was liberated 
through the influence of the Roman Catholic clergy, 
and authorized by the king to profess freely his te- 
nets. Ilis followers then, under the name of Zohar- 
ites (from their sacred book Zohar ) and Anti-Talmud- 
ists, oppressed their former ‘adversaries in turn, and 
even obtained an order from the cardinal of Kamienitz 
to have all the copies of the Talmud in his diocese 
burned. They soon, however, lost their influence, the 
papal nuncio at Warsaw declaring against them. 
Some fled to Moldavia, where they were badly treated, 
and most of the others, including Frank, professedly 
embraced Christianity : hut, as he continued to make 
prosclvtes, he was imprisoned in the fort of Czensto- 
chow until the invasion of Poland by the Russians in 
1773. Ilis sect had increased in the mean time, and 
he made large collections in Poland and Bohemia. In 
1778 lie went to Yienna, and then went to Brmin, in 
Moravia, where he lived in princely style on the means 
j furnished him by his followers. Driven again frem 
Yienna, where he had returned, he settled at Offen- 
bach, in Hesse, where he died of apoplexy (notwith- 
standing his disciples believed him immortal) Dec. 10, 
1791. The sect exists yet. and has its head-quarters 
j in Warsaw, hut the mystery which surrounds it lias not 
yet been dissipated. Their profession of faith has 


655 


FRANKINCENSE 


FRANKENBERG 


been published at Lemberg in rabbinical Hebrew and 
in Polish. — Hoefer, Xouv. Blog. Gin. xviii, 5G5; see 
Czacki, Dissertation sur les Juifs ; Peter Beer, His- 
toire des Juifs; Fort, Histoire des Juifs; Franck, La 
Cabale; Leon Hollaenderski, Les Israelites de Pologne; 
Salomon Maimon, Des series reiigieuses des Juifs po- 
lonais ; Carmoly, Etat des Israelites en Pologne : Giiitz, 
Frank u. d. Frankisten (Breslau, 1SG8) ; Jahrbucher f. 
deutsche Theologie (18G8), p. 555 ; Judlsche Zeltschrift 
(Geiger’s), vi, 1, 49. 

Frankenberg, Joiiann Heinricii, count* of 
Frankenberg, a cardinal of the Roman Oath. Church, 
was born at Glogau September 18, 1720. lie stud- 
ied first at Breslau, and afterwards in the German- 
11 ungarian College at Koine. After liis return to 
Germany he became successively coadjutor of the 
archbishop of Gortz in 1749, archbishop of Mecheln in 
1759, soon after member of the Belgian Council of 
State, and cardinal in 1778. He defended the liber- 
ties of the Church and of the episcopal seminaries 
against the innovations of the emperor, Joseph II, but, 
being accused of having taken part in some disturb- 
ances which occurred in Brabant in 1789, the emperor 
deposed him. Accused afterwards of having opposed 
the measures taken by the French against the church- 
es of his diocese, he was condemned to deportation, 
and taken to Brussels. He lived for a while at Em- 
merich, then in the village of Allans, in Westphalia, 
and finally removed to Breda, in Holland, where he 
died, June 11,1804. See A. Theiner, Der Cardinal von 
Frankenberg (Freiburg, 1850); Pierer, U nice rsal-Lexi- 
k'Oll, s. v. 

Frankfurt, Concordat of. See Concordat. 
Frankfurt, Council of (Concilium Franoo- 
fordiense), a synod of great importance in Church 
history, held at Frankfurt-on-the-Main, A.D. 794. 
Some Roman writers deny the authenticity of the acts 
of the Council of Frankfurt (e. g. Barrnel, Du Rom. 
Pape, Paris, 1803, 5i, 402), but Baronins (Annales, A.D. 
791) admits it, and Labbe publishes the canons enact- 
ed at it (Cornell, vii, 1057). Mansi publishes but two 
of the canons (Concil. xii, 909), referring to Capit. Reg. 
Franc, (ed. Baluz. i, 203) for the rest. Dupin holds 
that it was considered in France to be a general coun- 
cil, and that three hundred bishops attended it (Eccles. 
Illst. cent. viii). The}*- came from Germany, Gaul, 
Spain, Italy, and England, and there were two dele- 
gates from the pope. 

The occasion of the council was as follows. After 
the close of the second Council of Nicaea, A.D. 787, 
the pope sent a copy of its acts to Charlemagne, seek- 
ing the approval of the French bishops, which the.y 
declined on the ground that the worship of images, 
sanctioned at Xica?a, was unauthorized in the Church, 
and unlawful. The Libri Carolini (see Caroline 
Books) were composed under the name of Charle- 
magne, and by his order, to refute the canons of Xi- 
csea. “Xothing can be stronger than the opposition 
which they offer to every act of or appearance of wor- 
ship as paid to images, even to bowing the head and 
burning lights before them. Romanists pretend that 
the Gallican bishops well as the author of these 
books, were deceived by a false translation of the acts 
of the second Council of Xicaea, which, they say, led 
them to fancy that the council had inculcated the pay- 
ing divine honor and worship to images, and that it 
was this false notion which induced them to condemn 
the council; but this is evidently untrue, since it is 
an historical fact that authentic copies of the acts of 
the council were sent into France by the pope, as also 
that Charlemagne received another copy direct from 
Constantinople” (Palmer, On the Church , pt. iv, ch. x, 
§ 4). Roger de Koveden has the following: “ In the 
year 792, Charles, king of the Franks, sent into Brit- 
ain” [to Offa, king of the Mercians] “a synodal book, 
sent to him from Constantinople, in which, alas ! were 


found many tilings inconvenient, and contrary to the 
true filth, especially in this, that it was established 
by unanimous consent of almost all the doctors and 
bishops of the East, no less than three hundred, that 
images ought to tie worshipped” [imagines adorari 
debere], “which the Church of God doth altogether 
abominate” [execratur]. “Against which Albitius ’ 
[Alcuinus] “ wrote an epistle, fortified with the au- 
thority of the holy Scriptures.” Matthew ot W est- 
minster, anno 793, gives a similar account. 

Finally, Charlemagne called the Council of Frank- 
furt for A.D. 794, to consider this question, and also 
that of the Adoptianist heresy (q. v.). Fifty-six can- 
ons were passed at the council, of which the following 
are the most important: Canon 1. Condemning lelix 
and Elipandus, the propagators of the Adoptian here- 
sv. 2. Condemning the second Council of Xicaia, and 
all worship of images. “Allata est in medium quaes- 
tio de nova Grecorum Svnodo, quam de adorandis 
imaginibus Constantinopoli tecerunt, in qua scriptum 
habebatur ut qui imaginibus sanctorum, ita ut deificaj 
Trinitati, servitium aut adorationem non impenderent, 
anathema judicarentnr. Qui supra sanctissimi patres 
nostri omnimodis adorationem ct servitutem renuentes 
contenipserunt atque consentientes condemnaverunt.” 
G. Ordering that bishops shall see justice done to the 
clergy of their diocese ; if the clergy are not satisfied 
with their judgment, they may appeal to the metro- 
politan in synod. 11. Ordering all monks to abstain 
from business and all secular employments. 10. For- 
bidding to take money for the ordination of monks. 
— See, besides the authorities already cited, Gieseler, 
Church History, period iii, § 12 ; Landon, Manual of 
Councils , s. v. ; Inett, History of the English Church , pt. 
5, chap, xiii ; Hefele, Concilicngeschichte , iii, G35 sq. ; 
llarduin, Concil. iv, 901 ; Schrockh, Kirchengeschicht fe, 
xx, 598; and the article Image Worship. 

Frankfurter, Moses ben-Simeon, a distinguish- 
ed printer and Hebraist, lived at Amsterdam between 
1700 and 17G2. Ilis reputation as a scholar chiefly 
rests on the “Great Rabbinic Bible” (called TXnjD 
the Congregation of Moses, Amsterd. 1724-1727, 
4 vols. fol.), which he edited, and to which he gave the 
greatest part of his life and fortune. This work con- 
stitutes in itself a library of Biblical literature and ex- 
egesis, ami is indispensable to every critical expositor 
of the O. T. Besides giving the text in Hebrew and 
Chaldee bv Onkelos, it contains’thc Massora, the com- 
mentaries by Kashi, Aben-Ezra, Ivimclii, Levi b. Ger- 
shon, Jacob b. Asher, Samuel b. Laniado, Ibn Jachjo, 
Duran, Saadia, Chaskuni, Sephorno, a number of other 
rabbis, and by the editor, Frankfurter. Xot less note- 
worthy are his Index Rerum , the different Introductions 
written either bv himself or by distinguished rabbis; 
his Index to all the chapters and sections of t lie O. T., 
giving the commencement of the verses ; a treatise on 
the design of the law by Obadiali Sephorno ; the Great 
Massora; the various readings of the Eastern and 
Western Codd. ; a treatise upon the Accents ; and last, 
but not least, the differences in text between Ben- 
Xaphthali and Ben-Ashcr, to the latter of whom so 
great prominence is given by Maimonides, who, in his 
treatise upon the sacred Scriptures, regards Ben-Asli- 
er’s revision as the most correct, and adopts it himself 
as a model. It is from this revision of the text that 
the Hebrew Bibles of the present day are printed. 
Frankfurter wrote also glosses on the different portions 
of the Bible, entitled nrjp nn:*2 (a small of e ring'); 

~~2‘2 (the great offering) ; r>~2'2 (the 

evening offering). — Kitto, Cyclopadia of Lib. IJt. ii, « 7; 
Etheridge, Introd. to Ileb. Liter. 101 ; Furst, Biblloth. 
Jud. i, 295. See Rabbinical Bibles. (J. II. W.) 

Frankincense (■"!:*•'-?, lebonali ; whence \//3«- 
vog), an odorous resin, so called from its whiteness 
(Plin. xii, 14, 32) ; mostly imported from Arabia (Isa. 


FRANKINCENSE 


G56 


FRANKINCENSE 


Ix, 6; Jer. vi, 20; see nlso Strabo, 1G; Virgil, Georg. | 
ii, 117), yet growing also in Palestine (Cant, iv, 34; 
unless perhaps some odoriferous kind of plant is here j 
referred to) ; and used for perfume (Cant, iii, G), but 
more especially in sacrifices for fumigation (Lev. ii, 2, 1 
1G; v, 11 ; Isa. xliii, 23; Ixvi, 3; Luke i, 9); and it 
also was one of the ingredients in the perfume which 
was to he prepared for the sanctuary (Exod. xxx, 31). 
Its use as an accompaniment of the meat-offering (Lev. 

ii, 1, 16; vi, 15; xxiv, 7 ; Numb, v, 15) arose from its 
fragrant odor when burnt, in which respect the in- 
cense was a symbol of the divine name, and its dift'u- 
sion an emblem of the publishing abroad of that name j 
(Mai. i, 11 : comp. Cant, i, 3); and from this, as pray- 
er is a calling on God’s name, the incense came to be 
an emblem of prayer (Psa. cxli, 2; Luke i, 10; IJev. 
v, 8; viii, 3). In this symbolical representation the 
frankincense especially set forth holiness as character- 
istic of the divine attributes, so that the burning of it . 
was a celebration of the holiness of Jehovah (Bahr, 
Symbolik d. J fas. Cult ns, i, 4GG; ii, 329, etc.). In this 
respect its name ( = whiteness) likewise became signifi- 
cant. Frankincense was also used in the religious 
services of the heathen (Herod, i, 183; Ovid, Trist. v, 
5, 31; Metam. vi, 3G1; Arnob. adv. Gentes , vi, 3; vii, 
2G, etc.). On the altars of Mvlitta and the Paphian 
Venus only incense was burnt (Hunter, Relig. der Bo- . 
bylonier , p. 55 ; Der tempel d. himmel. Gottin zu Paphos , j 
p. 20; Ilomer, Od. viii, 3G3 ; see Damm, s. v. Svgtig ; 
Tacitus, Hist, ii, 3). The substance itself seems to 
have been similar to that now known as such, a vege- 
table resin, brittle, glittering, and of a bitter taste, ob- 
tained by successive incisions in the bark of a tree 
called the arbor thuris, the first of which yields the 
jj^rest and whitest kind (nrt '5, Xifiavog etaeftavije, or 
KaOapog) ; while the produce of the after incisions is 
spotted with yellow, and, as it becomes old, loses its 
whiteness altogether. The Indian olibanuin, or frank- 
incense, is imported in eliests and casks from Bombay 
as a regular article of sale. It is chiefly used in the 
rites of the Greek and Bom an churches; and its only 
medical application at present is as a perfume in sick 
rooms. The olibanuin, or frankincense used by the 
Jews in the Temple services, is not to be confounded 
with the frankincense of commerce, which is a sponta- 
neous exudation of the Pinos abies , or Norway spruce 
fir, and resembles in its nature and uses the Burgundy 
pitch which is obtained from the same tree. See Ix- 

CEXSE. 

The ancients possessed no authentic information re- 
specting the plant from which this resin is procured 
(Strabo, xvi, 778, 782; Diod. Sic. ii, 49 ; Pliny, vi, 2G, 
32; Arrian, Peripl. p. 158; Ptolemy, vi, 7, 24; Herod. 

iii, 97, 107 ; Arrian, Alex, vii, 20; Virg. Min. i, 41G ; 
Georg, i, 57, etc.), and modern writers arc nearly as 
much confused in their accounts of it. Even Pliny 
and Theophrastus, who had never seen it, give merely 
contradictory statements concerning it. 1 1 is described 
by the latter ns attaining the height of about five ells, 
having many brandies, leaves like the pear-tree, and 
bark like the laurel ; but at the same time he men- i 
tions another description, according to which it resem- 
bles the mastic-tn e, its leaves being of a reddish color 
(Hist. Plant, ix, 1). According to Diodorus (v, 41), it 
is a small tree, resembling the Egyptian hawthorn, 
with gold-yellow loaves like those of the troad. The 
difficulty was rather increased than otherwise in the 
time of Pliny by the importation of some shoots of the 
tree itself, which seemed to belong to the terebinthns ' 
(xii, 31). Garcia de Horto represents it as low, with 
a leaf like that of the mastic: he distinguishes two 
kinds : the finer, growing on the mountains ; the other, 
dark and of an inferior quality, growing on the plains. 
Chardin says that the frankincense-tree \>n the moun- 
tains of Cnramania resembles a large pear-tree. The 
Arabian botanist Abulfadli says it is a vigorous shrub, 


growing only in Yemen and on the hills, and in re- 
spect to its leaves and fruit resembling myrtle; a de- 
scription which lias been thought (Sprengcl, Hist, rei 
bot. i, 12, 257) to apply very well to the Awyris katab 
(Forskal, Flor. p. 80), or (Gesch. d. Botun. i, 16) to the 
Amyris Aw/fi/ (Forskal, p. 19), or even to the Jmiiperus 
thurifera (Martins, Pharmakogn. p. 384). Niebuhr, in 
his Descript, of Arabia, ii, 35G, says, “ We could learn 
nothing of the tree from which the incense distils, and 
Forskal does not mention it. I know that it is to be 
found in a part of lladramaut [comp. Wellsted, i, 19G; 
ii, 333], where it is called oliban. But the Arabians 
bold their own incense in no estimation, and make use 
of that only which comes from India. Probably Ara- 
bian incense was so called by the ancients because the 
Arabs traded in it, and conveyed it from India to the 
ports of Egypt and Syria.” The Hebrews imported 
their frankincense from Saba (Isa. lx, G ; Jer. vi, 20) ; 
but it is remarkabl.e that at present the Arabian libanum, 
or olibanuin, is of a very inferior kind, and that the 
finest frankincense imported intoTurkey comes through 
Arabia from the islands of the Indian Archipelago. 
The Arabian plant may possibly have degenerated, or 
it may be that, the finest kind was always procured 
from India, ns it certainly was in the time of Dioscor- 
ides. Burekhardt, in bis Travels in JVubia, p. 2G2, ob- 
serves : “The liban is a species of gum, collected by 
the Bedouin Arabs, who inhabit the deserts between 
Kordofan and Shilluk, on the road to Sennaar. It is 
said to exude from the stem of a tree, in the same 
manner as gum arabic. It is sold in small tliin cakes, 
is of a dull gray color, very brittle, and has a strong 
smell. The country people use it as a perfume, but it 
is dear. It is much in demand for the inhabitants of 
Taka, and all the tribes between the Nile and the Bed 
Sea. It is exported to Souakin ; the Cairo merchants 
receive it from Jidda. At Cairo it is considered ns the 
frankincense, and is called incense. There are two 
sorts, one of which is much coarser than the other. 
It is also imported into Jidda from Sonaliel, on the 
eastern coast of Africa, beyond Cape Gardafui.” Col- 
onel James Bird likewise observes: “There are two 
kinds of frankincense, or loban , one of which is the 
produce of lladramaut, and is collected by the Bedouin 
Arabs, the other is brought by the Sumalis frem Afri- 
ca. The former, which is met with in small globular 
lumps, has a tinge of green in its color; but the other, 
which is more like common resin in appearance, is of 
a bright yellow appearance. What the Sumalis im- 
port and name loban mail is less fragrant than the 
Arabian kind; it is therefore preferred for chewing, 
but the last is more used for fumigation. Both kinds 
are exported by the Hindu merchants to India, along 
with gum, myrrh, and small portions of honey collect- 
ed in the country near Aden.” The Arabs, says Bo- 
senmiiller (AJterthumsk. iv, 153), call the most excel- 
lent species of frankincense cinulhur ; and that this is 
an Indian production appears from Colebrooke’s obser- 
vation (Asiatic Researches , ix, 377), that in Hindu 
writings on medicaments an odorous gum is called 
hmdnra, w hich, according to the Indian grammarians, 
is a Sanscrit word. They unanimously state it to he 
the produce of a tree called sallaki, and in the vulgar 
language salai. When the bark is pierced there ex- 
udes a gum of a whitish or yellowish color, externally 
powdery from friction, but. internally pellucid, very 
brittle, with a balsamic or resinous smell, and a some- 
what acrid taste; it burns with a clear Maze and an 
agreeable odor. Tbe tree grows in the Indian moun- 
tains, and is one of considerable size, somewhat re- 
sembling the sumach, and belonging to the same nat- 
ural family, terebinthacctr , or turpentine-bearing trees 
(see Ainslie, Mat. hid. i, 2G5). It is known to bota- 
nists bv the name of Bosivellia serrata or thurifera 
(Boxlmrgh, Flora Indira , iii, 388); it has pinnated 
leaves, the folioles of which are pubescent, ovate acu- 
minate and serrate, and very small flowers disposed in 


FRATERNITY 


FRANKS, CONVERSION OF 657 


simple axillary racemes. By incisions in the bark a 
very odorous gum is obtained, which the spice-mer- 
chants of London recognised as olibunum or frankin- 
cense, although it had been sent to England as an en- 
tirely different species of perfume (see Oken, Lehrb. d. 
Botan. II, ii, 687 sq. ; Geiger, Phcmnac . Botun. ii, 1204 
sq.). The Boswelliu serrata grows to a height of forty 



Eoswellia Serrata , with enlarged view of the flower and cap- 
sule. 


feet, and is found in Amboyna and the mountainous 
districts of India. Another species, the B. papyrifera, 
occurs on the east coast of Africa, in Abyssinia, about 
1000 feet above the sea-level, on bare limestone rocks, 
to which the base of the stem is attached by a thick 
mass of vegetable substance, sending roots to a pro- 
digious depth in the rocky crevices (Hogg’s Veg. King- 
dom, p. 249). Its resin, the olibanum of Africa and 
Arabia, usually occurs in commerce in brownish mass- 
es, and in yellow-tinted drops or “tears,” not so large 
as the Indian variety. The last is still burnt in Hin- 
du temples under the names of “ rhunda” and “ lu- 
ban” — the latter evidently identical with the Hebrew 
lebonah ; and it is exported from Bombay in consider- 
able quantities for the use of Greek and Homan Cath- 
olic churches. From Cant, ir, 14 it has been inferred 
that the frankincense-tree grew in Palestine (compare 
Athen. iii, 101), and especially on Mount Lebanon. 
The connection between the names, however, goes for 
nothing (Lebonah, Lebanon) ; the word may be used 
for aromatic plants generally (Gescn. Lex. s. v.) ; and 
the rhetorical flourishes of Florus (Epit. iii, 6, “thuris 
silvas”) and Ausonius (. Monosyl . p. 110) are of little 
avail against the fact that the tree is not at present 
found in Palestine. (See Celsii Ilierob. i, 281; Bod. a 
Stapel, comment, in Theophr. p. 97G sq. ; Gescnius, Ileb. 
Thesitur. p. 741 ; Penny Cyclop, s. v. Olibanum and Bos- 
wellia Thurifera). See Aromatics. 

Franks, Conversion of. See Ctilodwig ; 
France. 

Franz, or Franzius, Wolfgang, a Lutheran 
theologian, was born at Plauen, 15G4. He became 
professor of history, and afterwards of theology, at 
Wittenberg, where he died Oct. 2G, 1 G28. Among his 
voluminous writings are Animalinm historia Sacra 
(best ed. Frankfort, 1712, 4 vols. 4 to) : — Tractatus the - 
olngicus de interpretatione S.S. (Wittenb. 2d edit. 1708, 
4to) : — Schola sacrificiorum jmtriarchalium sacra , as- 
serting the orthodox doctrine of the atonement against 
the Socinians (Wittenb. 1G54, 4to, and often). 

Fra Paolo. See Sarpi. 

Fraser, Alexander, minister of Kirkhill, Scot- 
II L — T t 


land, wrote Key to Prophecies not yet accomplished (Ed- 
inburgh, 1795, 8vo), described bv Orme ( Bibl . Bib.) as 
“ a work of some merit,” containing “ rules for the ar- 
rangement of the unfulfilled prophecies, observations 
on their dates, and a general view of the events fore- 
told in them also Commentary on Isaiah (1800, 8vo). 
— Allibone, Dictionary of Authors, s. v. (J. W. M.) 

Fraser, James, a minister of the Church of Scot- 
land, born about 1700, and died 17G9, was the author 
of The Scripture Doctrine of Sanctification (Edinburgh, 
1774, 12mo), of which several editions have appeared, 
the last ail abridgment (London, Tract Societj", 1849, 
18mo). This work was edited by Dr. Erskine, and is 
highly praised by Orme (Bibl. Bib.).- — Allibone, Dic- 
tionary of Authors, s. v. (J. W. M.) 

Frassen, Claude, a Franciscan monk, was born in 
Picardy in 1G20. He was doctor of the Sorbonne, the- 
ological professor at Paris, and superior of the Fran- 
ciscan convent there. He wrote Dissert ationes Biblicce 
(Paris, 1G82, 2 vols. 4to) : — Cours de Philosophic (Paris, 
16G8, 2 vols. 4to): — Cours de Tlieologie (Paris, 1G72, 4 
vols. fol.) ; reprinted, with additions by the author, in 
Latin, as Scotus Academicus seu universa doctoris sub- 
tilis theologica dogmata (Venice, 12 vols. 4to). He died 
in Paris, Feb. 26, 1711. 

Frater, the Latin word for brother. See Broth- 
er. 

Fraternity (confraternitas, sndalitas ), the name 
of associations in the Roman Catholic Church which 
pursue special religious and ecclesiastical purposes, 
observe corresponding statutes and religious exercises, 
and are endowed with indulgences, and sometimes 
with other privileges. Among the purposes to which 
fraternities are devoted arc the nursing of the sick, 
support of the poor, the practice of a special devotion 
to some part of the Roman Catholic worship, the ven- 
eration of a particular saint, etc. In the earlier times 
of the Christian Church, as all Roman Catholic writers 
admit, there is no trace of fraternities. The first ref- 
erence to them is found in an order of bishop Odo, of 
Paris (died 1208), providing for the annual meeting 
of a Marianic fraternity. In the 12th century the 
fraternity of Bridge Brethren (q. v.) arose at Avignon. 
Among the oldest associations of this class belongs 
also the fraternity of the Gonfalonieri, who were con- 
firmed by pope Clement IV. In the 17th and 18th 
centuries the “ Marianic Congregations” spread wide- 
ly, especially in Southern Germany, and in connection 
with the order of Jesuits. Among the other most 
noted associations were that of the Scapulary (q. 
v.), Rosary (q. v.), and Corpus Christi. The popes 
Clement VIII, Paul V, Benedict XIII, and Benedict 
XIV issued several constitutions and decrees concern- 
ing fraternities. All the fraternities of the Church 
are subject to the jurisdiction of the bishop and his 
right of visitation. No fraternity can be erected in a 
diocese without the consent of the bislfop, who has the 
right of examining, sanctioning, and, whenever he 
chooses, altering their statutes. Among the fraterni- 
ties of modern origin, none has extended so widely as 
the “ Fraternity of the most Holy and Immaculate 
Heart of Mary for the Conversion of Sinners,” which 
was founded in 1837 by the abbe Dufriche Desge- 
nettes in Paris. Among the many religious societies 
which have been of late established by the High- 
Church school in the Anglican Church are many which 
assume the name “Brotherhood” or “Confraternity.” 
The “ Kalendar for the English Church” for the year 
1869 mentions all societies of this kind then in exist- 
ence in England, among them the “ Guild of St. Alban 
the Martyr,” all the branches of which call themselves 
brotherhood or sisterhood; the “Confraternity of the 
most Holy Trinity ;” the “ Confraternity of the Bless- 
ed Sacrament of the Body and Blood of Christ tho 
“ Brotherhood of St. Luke the Physician and Evan* 
gelist.” — Allgemeine ReaUEncyklop. iii, 134 (s. v. Brio 


FRATRES 


G58 


FREDERIKS 


derseh'ifteii ) ; Kalendcir for the English Church for 1869 
(London, 18G9, p. 198-211). (A. J. 8.) 

Fratres, plural of fritter. See Brethren. 

Fratricelli, Fraticelli, or Fratelli, a low Lat- 
in or Italian diminutive, denoting fratres minores , lit- 
tle brothers. The term has been applied to so many | 
different sects that its use in writers of the Middle 
Age is confusing. It was first applied to a sect of 
Franciscans which arose in Italy about the year 1294. I 
It was used as a term of derision, as the greater num- 
ber of them were apostate monks ; and for this reason 
it was sometimes given to other sects, as the Cathar- 
ists, Waldenses, etc. "When this name was applied to 
the more rigid of the Franciscans, it was deemed hon- 
orable. As there were many divisions among the 
Franciscans (q. v.), pope Coelestin V authorized Pet. de 
Mace rata and ret. de Sempronio to form a new order, 
who were called Pauperes eremiti Pom. Calestini , and 
who obtained permission to live in solitude, as hermits, 
and to observe the rule of St. Francis in all its rigor. 
Many of the more ascetic and extravagant monks join- 
ed them, who, living .according to their own fancies, 
and making all perfection consist in poverty, and op- 
posed by the regular Franciscans, were condemned by 
Boniface VIII (1302), and the inquisitors were ordered 
by John XXII (1318) to proceed against them as her- 
etics, which commission they executed with tire ut- 
most barbaritA 1 -. After this, many of them adopted the 
views of Peter John Oliva de Serignan, published in 
his commentary. See Oliva. They held the Roman 
Church to be Babylon ; that the rule of St. Francis 
was observed by Jesus Christ and his apostles. They 
foretold the reformation of the Church, and the res- 
toration of the true Gospel of Christ. They affirmed 
that St. Francis was the angel mentioned in Rev. xiv, 
6; that the Gospel was to be abrogated in. 12G0, and to 
give place to a new Gospel, a book published under 
the name of the abbot Joachim ; that the ministers of 
this reformation were to be barefooted friars. They 
were repeatedly condemned ; and from authentic rec- 
ords it appears that no fewer than two thousand per- 
sons were burnt by the Inquisition from 1318 to the 
time of Innocent VI. These severities were repeated 
by pope Nicholas V and his successors ; nevertheless, 
they maintained themselves down to the 15th centur} 1 . 
— Herzog, Real-Encyhlop. iv, 5C2 ; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. 
cent, xiii, pt. ii, chap, ii, § 39, notes 86, 87 ; Ilase, Ch. 
Hist. § 265 ; Limborch, History o f the Inquisition. See 
Everlasting Gospel; Franciscans. 

Frauds, Pious, “ artifices and falsehoods made use 
of in propagating what is believed to be useful to the 
cause of religion. They are the offspring of sinceri- 
ty and insincerity; of religious zeal combined with a 
defective morality ; of conscientiousness in respect of 
the end, and unscrupulous dishonesty as to the means : 
without the one of these ingredients, there could be no 
fraud ; without the other, it could in no sense be term- 
ed a pious fraud. These frauds have been more par- 
ticularly practised in the Church of Rome. But Prot- 
estants, in their abhorrence of the frauds that have 
been so often employed in support of that corrupt sys- 
tem, are prone to forget, or at least not sufficiently to 
consider, that it is not the corruptness of the system 
that makes the frauds detestable, and that their sep- 
aration from the Church of Rome does not place them 
in a situation which exempts them from all danger of 
falling into corruptions; among the rest, into the jus- 
tification of pious frauds, substantially similar to those 
with which that Church is so justly 1 ' reproached. See 
Whately, Errors of Romanism." — Eden, Church Dic- 
tionary , s. v. See Casuistry ; Probabilism. 

Frayssinous, Denis, Count of, an eminent prel- 
ate of the Gallican Church, bishop of Hermopolis, peer 
of France, commander of the order of th'e Holy Ghost, 
etc., was born May 9, 1765, at Curieres, in Gascony. 
His father designed him for the law, but he preferred 


the Church, and in 1788 he attached himself to tlie 
community of Laon, directed by the priests of St. Sul- 
pice, in Paris. The society was broken up by the 
Revolution, but after the adoption of Napoleon’s con- 
cordat in 1801 it was reunited, and Frayssinous be- 
came lecturer on dogmatic theology. In 1803 he com- 
menced a series of “catechetical conferences” in St. 
Sulpice, which had great success. Napoleon threat- 
ened to break up these conferences unless Frayssinous 
would make certain political recommendations to his 
hearers; but he would not consent, nor was he further 
disturbed. These meetings were suspended hv the 
Church authorities from 1809 to 1814, then continued 
till 1822 ; and his lectures at them were printed under 
the title Defense du Christianisme (Paris, 1823, 3 vols. 
8vo), containing a resume of previous books on the 
evidences, with additional scientific arguments. It 
was translated into English, Defense of Christianity, in 
a Series oj Lectures , etc. (London, 1836, 2 vols. 8vo). 
After the restoration (1814) he became very popular 
at court, and was made first almoner of Louis XVI II. 
He refused to accept the bishopric of Nismes, but in 
1822 was made bishop of Ilermopolis inpartibus infde - 
i Hum. In the same year lie was made grand master of 
the University and a member of the Academy, and ono 
of his first acts was to put an end to Guizot’s lectures 
on history “as of dangerous tendency.” In 1824 he 
' became peer of France and minister of public instruc- 
| tion and worship. He was also minister of worship un- 
! der Charles X, but soon retired ; and gave his advice, in 
' retirement, against the famous Ordonnances which led 
to the Revolution of 1830. lie followed the fortunes 
of Charles X, ■who died in his arms at Goritz. Frays- 
sinous died at St.Gcniez Dec. 12, 1841. His life was 
^ written by Ilenrion (2 vols. 8vo). Besides the work 
mentioned above, he wrote Les Vrais Principes de 
V Eglise Gallicane sur la puissance eccUsiasiique , la pa - 
paute , etc. (1817, 8vo), a work said by the Ultramon- 
tanists to “look towards Jansenism, or something 
worse.” According to it, the pope is infallible only' 
when in harmony with the voice of the entire Church. 
— Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xviii, 619. 

Fredegise or Fridugise, a mediaeval monkish 
writer, was of English origin, and flourished in the 
9th century. He was a pupil of Alenin, who took him 
to France, where he obtained employment at the court 
of Charlemagne. He succeeded Alenin in the abbey 
of St. Martin, and had also conferred on him those of 
St. Bertin and Conner}’', and was chancellor to Louis 
le Debonnaire. II is Epistola de Xihilo et tenebris (pre- 
served in the Miscellanea of Baluze, tom. i) is divided 
into two parts, and the author attempts to show in the 
first part that the nihilnm is something real, and in 
the second that the tenebne are a corporeal substance. 
His work against Agobard is lost, but the description 
of Cormery in the poems of Alenin is generally attrib- 
uted to him. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , xviii, 626. 
(J.W. M.) 

Frederiks, Willem, was an enlightened Roman 
Catholic priest, who contributed much to prepare the 
way for the Reformation in Holland. In earlier life 
he enjoyed the friendship of John Wessel and R. 
Agricola, and in later years that of Erasmus. He 
was a man of learning, and also skilled in medicine. 
He was pastor of St. Martin's church in Groningen, 
lie also frequently served the city in a political ca- 
pacity. He acquired great influence, and was highly 
! esteemed. Erasmus regarded him not only as ail en- 
lightened man, but as a model priest. He belonged 
to a circle in which the spirit of Wessel continued to 
live. Associated with such men as Everard Jarghes, 
Herman Abring, Nikolaas Lesdorp, Johannes Tim- 
mermans, and Gerard Pistoris, he diffused liberal 
ideas more in harmony with the views of the Reform- 
! ers than with those of the Roman hierarchy. The Do- 
1 minicans attempted to counteract these liberal views 


FREEKE 


FREE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND G59 


by offering to defend certain theses. A debate en- 
sued in 1523. In the progress of it it became appar- 
ent that this circle of friends had deeply imbibed the 
spirit and sentiments of the illustrious Wessel. The 
liberty which they enjoyed in the expression of their 
views was greatly due to the extraordinary influence 
of Frederiks. He laid Groningen under still fuither 
obligations to him by bequeathing to the St. Martin's 
church his library, volumes of which are still found 
on the shelves of the University Library of that place, 
lie died in 15*25. He left a son, who was a civilian, 
and who rendered himself very useful by his hospital- 
ity and readiness to assist those who were persecuted 
for their faith. See Glasius, Godgeleerd Xederland , 
biz. 472 en verv. ; Ypeij and Dermont, Geschiedenis der 
Nederlandsche Ilervormde Kcrk, 1 Deel, biz. G6 (Breda, 
1819). (J.P.W.) 

Free Church of Scotland. See Scotland, 
Free Ciiurcii of. 

Free Congregations ( Freie Gemeinden ), an or- 
ganization of advanced German Rationalists and op- 
ponents of Christianity who have formally seceded 
from the state churches. They arose out of the so- 
ciety of Protestant Friends ( Protestantische Freunde ), 
or, as they were called by their opponents, Friends of 
Light ( Lick t freunde). The first impulse to the organ- 
ization of Protestant Friends was given by pastor 
Uhlieh, who, on June 29, 1841, presided at Gnadau. in 
the Prussian province of Saxony, at a meeting of 16 
theologians and school-teachers. A second meeting, 
held at llalle on the 20th of September, 1841, was at- 
tended by 56 Friends of Prussia, Saxony, and Anhalt, 
and agreed upon nine fundamental articles. The 
third meeting, held in Leipsie in 1842, counted about 
200 participants, ministers and laymen ; the seventh, 
held in Coethen in 1844, about 150 ministers and 500 
laymen. In 1845 the Prussian government deposed 
two of the leaders of the movement, Uhlieh and Dr. 
Rupp, from their positions as ministers of the State 
Church. Both at onee established Free Congrega- 
tions, Uhlieh at Magdeburg and Rupp at Konigsberg. 
The former, within a few months, numbered 7000 mem- 
bers. Other congregations were soon after established 
in Halle (by Wislieenus), in Nordhausen (by E. Bul- 
zer), in Marburg (by prof. Bay rhofer). In 1847, the 
first Conference of Free Congregations took place at 
Nordhausen, to which also the German Catholics (q. 
v.) were invited. The revolution of 1848 gave to the 
Free Congregations greater liberty, and consequently 
a considerable increase of members. At the seeond 
Conference, held at Halberstadt in 1849, the way w r as 
prepared for a union with the German Catholics ; and 
by the third Conference, held in May, 1850 (it was 
opened at Leipsie, but, when some members were or- 
dered out of the city, adjourned to Coethen), the union 
was consummated. At this Conference the Apostles’ 
Creed was formally rejected, and the creed of the new 
organization summarized in the formula “ I believe in 
God and his eternal kingdom as it lias been introduced 
into the world by Jesus Christ.” With regard to bap- 
tism, the Lord’s Supper, and all forms of divine wor- 
ship, full liberty was given to individual congrega- 
tions. After the overthrow of the free political con- 
stitutions established in Germany in 1848, the Free 
Congregations were in most German states again sub- 
jected to very oppressive laws. In Saxony they were 
altogether suppressed. In Bavaria, the baptisms per- 
formed by their ministers were declared invalid. At 
the same time, dissensions broke out among the con- 
gregations themselves. Some leaders, like Dr. Rupp, 
desired to retain the name Christian, and to be regard- 
ed as Christians ; but the majority wished to drop the 
name Christian, and even declared against the belief 
in a personal God. In 1868 the Union of Free Con- 
gregations numbered in Germany 121 congregations, 
with 25,000 members; and six periodicals advocated 


their views. Among the Germans of the United States, 
the Union ( Bund ) of Free Congregations embraces 
live congregations, viz. Philadelphia (since 1852) ; St. 
Louis (1850) ; Sauk Co., Wis. (three branches) ; Dane 
Co., M is. ; Hoboken (1865). A periodical is published 
in Philadelphia. The Union acts hand in hand with 
the “Alliance of Freethinkers” (a German society in 
New York), and a number of “ Free Men’s Associa- 
tions” in different parts of the country. Similar Free 
Societies exist in France, Italy, Belgium, and Holland. 
— See Zschiesehe, Die protestant. Freunde (Altenburg, 
1846); Hay in, Krisis unstrer relig. Deicegung (1847) ; 
Nippohl, Handbuch der neuesten Kirchengesch. (2d edit. 
ElberfeUl, 1868) ; Schem, American Eccles. Almanac 
for 1868 (N. Y. 1868). (A. J. S.) 

Freedom (ITl’SH, chuphshah \ manumission , Lev. 
xix, 20; entirely different from 7ro\irtt«, citizenship , 
Acts xxii, 28; “commonwealth,” i. e. polity, Eph. ii, 
12). Strangers resident in Palestine had the fullest 
protection of the law, equally with the native Hebrews 
(Lev. xxiv, 22 ; Numb, xv, 15; Deut. i, 16; xxiv, 17) ; 
the law of usury was the only exception (Deut. xxiii, 
20). The advantage the Hebrew had over the Gentile 
was strictly spiritual, in his being a member of the ec- 
clesiastical as well as the civil community of Jehovah. 
But even to this spiritual privilege Gentiles were ad- 
mitted under certain restrictions (Deut. xxiii, 1-9; 1 
Sam. xxi, 7 ; 2 Sam. xi, 13). The Ammonites and 
Moabites were excluded from the citizenship of the 
theocracy, and the persons mentioned in Deut. xxiii, 
1-6. See Foreigner. The Mosaic code points out 
the several eases in which the servants of the Hebrews 
were to receive their freedom (Exod. xxi, 2-4, 7, 8 ; 
Lev. xxv, 39-41,47-55 ; Deut. xv, 12-17). See Slave. 
There were various modes whereby the freedom of 
Rome could be attained by foreigners, such as by mer- 
it or favor, by money (Acts xxii, 28), or by family. 
The ingenuus or freeman came directly by birth to free- 
dom and to citizenship. The libertinns or freedman 
was a manumitted slave, and his children were de- 
nominated libertini , i. e. freedmen or freedmen’s sons. 
See Libertine. ‘ Among the Greeks and Romans the 
freedmen had not equal rights with the freemen or 
those of free birth. The Roman citizen could not be 
legally scourged ; neither eouhl he be bound, or be ex- 
amined by question or torture, to extort a confession 
from him. If, in any of the provinces, he deemed him- 
self and his cause to be treated by tbe president with 
dishonor and injustice, he could, by appeal, remove it 
to Rome to the determination of the emperor (Aets xvi, 
37-39; xxi, 39; xxii, 25; xxv, 11, 12). Christians 
are represented as inheriting the rights of spiritual 
citizenship by being members of the commonwealth 
or community of Jehovah (Eph. ii, 12; Phil, iii, 20). 
See Citizensiiiu. The Christian slave is the Lord’s 
freedman, and a partaker of all the privileges of the 
children of God; and the Christian freeman is the 
servant of Christ (1 Cor. vi, 22 ; Rom. vi, 20-22). Paul 
acknowledges that freedom is worthy of being eagerly 
embraced ; but the freedom which lie esteemed most 
important in its consequences was that which is given 
through our Lord Jesus Christ (1 Cor. vii, 21-23). The 
Jews, under the Mosaic law, are represented as in a 
state of servitude, and Christians as in a state of free- 
dom (John viii, 31-36 ; Gal. iv, 22-31). See Slavery. 

Free (or Free-will) Offering (!1313, nedabah' , 
i. e. voluntary , as often), spoken of a spontaneous gift 
(Exod. xxxv, 29; Ezra i, 4; comp. 7), but chiefly of 
a voluntary sacrifice (Lev*, xxii, 23 ; Ezra iii, 5 ; Ezek. 
xlvi, 12; plur. 2 Chvon. xxxi, 14; Lev. xxiii, 38; 
Amos iv, 5 ; tig. Psa. exix, 108), as opposed to one in 
consequence of a vow (“'ll:), or in expiation of some 
offence. See Thank-offering. 

Freeke, William, an English Socinian, born in 
1663, wrote a book in the form of questions and an- 


FREEMAN 


C60 


FRELIX GHUYSEN 


swers, entitled A Dialogue on the Deity , and a Confuta- 
tion of the Doctrine of the Trinity, w hich was publicly 
burned; and the author was tilled £500 and compelled 
to make a recantation in Westminster Hall. — Allibone, 
Diet, of Authors, s. v. ; Itose, New Diog. Diet, vii, 448- 
0. (J. W. M.) 

Freeman (aTreXn&tpog, one manumitted , a freed- 
man, 1 Cor. vii, 22: so Josephus, Ant. vii, 11, 2; /Es- 
chines, lix, 25; Xenophon, Athen. i, 10), FREEWOM- 
AN (tXcvS'ipa, a free-horn female, Gal. iv, 22, 23, 30; 
elsewhere simply ‘•free”). See Freedom. 

Freeman, James, the first pastor of a Unitarian 
church in New’ England, was born in Chariest owm, 
April 22, 1759, and graduated at Harvard in 1777. His 
theological studies w'ere carried on with difficulty dur- 
ing the war. In 1782 he was invited to officiate as j 
reader in King’s Chapel for six months, and in 1783 he 
was chosen pastor of the church, stipulating, however, 
for permission to omit the Athanasian Creed from the 
service. lie soon began to feel doubts as to the doc- 
trine of the Trinity, and finally preached a series of 
sermons to his people renouncing the doctrine. The 
church resolved (in 1785) to alter their liturgy and re- 
tain their pastor. Thus the first Episcopal church in 
Xew England became the first Unitarian church in 
America. Application was made to Bishop Provost in 
1787 to ordain Mr. Freeman ; but the bishop, of course, 
refused, and the pastor was ordained by his own people. 
He was a man of fine social qualities, and of excellent 
intellectual powers, and w’as very successful as pastor 
and preacher. lie died November 14, 1835. Besides 
contributions to periodical literature and to the Collec- 
tions of the Massachusetts Historical Society, he pub- 
lished Sermons and Addresses (Boston, 1S82). — Ware, 
Unitarian Biography, i, 143, sq. ; Sprague, Annals, viii, 
162. 

Free Religious Association, the name of an 
association established in Boston, United States, in 
May, 1867. The Constitution adopted at the first 
meeting declared the objects of the association to be 
to promote the interests of pure religion, to encourage 
the scientific study of theology, and to increase fellow- 
ship in the spirit ; and to this end all persons interest- 
ed in these objects are cordially invited to its mem- 
bership. Each member of the association is left indi- 
vidually responsible for his own opinions alone, and 
affects in no degree his relations to other associations. 
Any person desiring to co-operate with the association 
will be considered a member, with full right to speak 
in its meetings, but is required to contribute a small 
annual fee as a preliminary to the privilege of voting 
on questions of business. The association is to hold 
an annual meeting at Boston, one month’s notice of 
the meeting being previously given. A permanent 
organization w*as effected of officers and committees. 
At the first, meeting speeches were made by Unitari- 
ans, Universalists, Spiritualists, Progressive Friends, 
Progressive Jew's, and others connected with no par- 
ticular religious denomination. At the second meet- 
ing, held in 1868, a Baptist clergyman, who had been 
censured for close communion practice, and an Epis- 
copalian clergyman, who had been tried for an ex- 
change of pulpit with a non-Episcopal clergyman, 
were among the speakers. (A. J. S.) 

Free Spirit, Brethren of the. See Breth- 
ren of the Free Spirit. 

Free-thinkers, “ a name adopted by sceptics to 
express the liberty which they claim and exercise, to 
think (or doubt) as they please upon all subjects, es- 
pecially those connected with religion. The term 
originated in the 18th century, though ‘free-thinking’ 
had earlier appeared in England. In 1718, a weekly 
paper, entitled The Free-thinker, was published; and 
in France and Germany a corresponding spirit exten- 
sively prevailed.” — Eden, Churchman s Diet. s. v. See 
Infidelity. 


Free will. See Will. 

Free-will Baptists. See Baptists. 

Frelinghuysen, the name of a family eminent in 
the history of the American Church. 

1. Frelinghuysen, Theodores Jacobus, first 
minister of the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church in 
Somerset County, X. J. Fie was born at Lingen, in 
East Friesland (now' in Hanover, Prussia), about 1691, 
w r as educated there, and was ordained in 1717. By the 
personal influence of Sicco Tjadde, one of the minis- 
ters of the classis of Amsterdam, Holland, lie was in- 
duced to come to America, where he arrived in Janua- 
ry, 1720, and became pastor of the Dutch people in 
the vicinity of the present city of New' Brunswick, 
upon the banks of the Raritan and its tributaries. 
Encountering all the difficulties of a newly-settled 
country and a sparse population, whose religious spirit 
w’as very formal and relaxed, his faithful and fearless 
ministry gave great offence to many, and aroused a 
spirit of persecuting opposition. But, with apostolic 
zeal, he declared, “I would rather die a thousand 
deaths than not preach the truth.” A great revival 
of religion resulted from his evangelical labors. The 
highest testimony to his success has been left on rec- 
ord by such men as Rev. Gilbert Tennent, George 

! Whitefield, and I’resident Edwards; and by Rev. Dr. 

. A. Messier, in his Historical Review of the R. D. Church 
1 of Raritan ; also in his paper entitled ‘‘The Hollanders 
in New' Jersey,” read before the New’ Jersey IFistori- 
i cal Society, September, 1850 — a valuable document. 
A characteristic volume of his sermons, translated 
from the Dutch language b} r Rev. William Demarcst, 
was issued in 1850 (12mo, pp. 422) by the Board of 
Publication of the R. P. D. Church, New' York. His 
| biographer says “ his labors continued for more than 
! a quarter of a century ; and although he w*as often 
attacked in the civil courts, before the colonial author- 
ities, and by complaint to the Classis of Amsterdam, 
lie never succumbed. He was always sustained by 
the ecclesiastical authorities. All his children were 
believers. Ilis five sons were ordained to the minis- 
try, and his two daughters w’ere married to ministers.” 
Ilis ministry closed about 1747 (see Memoir of Hon. 

, Theo. Frelinghuysen, by Rev. T. W. Chambers, D.D., 

^ N. Y., Harpers, 1863). (W. J. R. T.) 

2. Frelinghuysen, Rev. Theodore, eldest son of 
the above-named, came to this country in 1745 an or- 

| dained minister, and was settled over the Reformed 
Dutch Church in Albany, N. Y. He is represented to 
have been an ardent, frank, and popular man ; earnest, 
eloquent, tender, and wrarm-liearted as a preacher; of 
spotless life, and of eminent piety — “the apostolic and 
much-beloved Freyliiighuysen,” as the name was for- 
merly written. After a ministry of fifteen years in 
! Albany, he returned to Holland in 1760, partly he- 
’ cause of ministerial discouragements from the exces- 
sive w orldliness of the city, partly to visit his native 
land, and, according to some accounts, to procure 
i funds for founding a literary and theological institu- 
tion. But he never returned, having been lost at sea 
on the voyage. It is remarkable that his two broth- 
ers, Jacobus and Ferdinandus, both of whom had 
been educated and ordained as ministers in Holland, 
also died at sea in 1753, of small-pox ; and that the 
youngest brother, Flenricus, pastor of the churches in 
Wawarsing and Rochester, Ulster County, N. Y., died 
of the same disease soon after his settlement in 1756. 
i (W. J. R.T.) 

3. Frelinghuysen. John, second son of T.J. Fre- 
linghuysen, was educated and ordained in Holland, and 
succeeded his father as pastor at Raritan, N. J., in 1750. 
He “ w’as a man of greater suavity than his father, hut 
was equally firm in upholding the claims of spiritual 
Christianity, lie was distinguished for his gifts in 
the pulpit, for his assiduity in the religious training of 
the young, and for his zealous endeavors to raise up 


FRELIX GHUY SEN 


061 


FREXCH PROPHETS 


worthy candidates for the sacred office.” He died, ) 
greatly lamented, in 1754, in the twenty-eighth year 
of his age. llis wife, who afterwards married the 
Ilev. Dr. Jacobus Rutea Hardenbergh, and who sur- 
vived her first husband more than fifty years, is rep- 
resented to have been “as eminent in her day for in- 
telligent piety as any of the female saints of the Old 
Testament or of the Neiv” (see Chambers, Memoir of 
lion . Theo. Frdinghuysen , Harpers, 18G3). (W. J. K. 

T.) 

4. F RELixoiiuYSEX, Tiieodore, an eminent Chris- 
tian lawyer, statesman, orator, and educator of youth, 
was great-grandson of the Rev. Theodoras Jacobus 
Frelinghuysen, and the son of major-general Frederick 
Frelinghuysen, of the Revolutionary army, member 
of the Provincial Congress of New Jersey and of the 
Continental Congress, and senator of the United States 
from his native state (New Jersey). He was born at 
Millstone, Somerset Count)’-, N. J., March 28, 1787, ed- 
ucated in schools at New Brunswick and at Basking 
Ridge, and graduated at Nassau Hall, Princeton, in 
1804, with the highest honors of the institution. After 
studying law in the offices of his brother John at Mill- 
stone and of the Hon. Richard Stockton at Princeton, 
he was admitted to the bar in 1808, at the age of 
twenty-one. His eminent qualities as a lawyer led to 
liis appointment in 1817 as attorney general of the 
state, which office he held until, in 1829, he was elect- 
ed to the Senate of the United States. At the end of 
his term in the Senate he resinned the profession of the 
law, but soon accepted the chancellorship of the Uni- 
versity of the City of New York. From 1839 to 1850 
he occupied this high place, and then became presi- 
dent of Rutgers College at New Brunswick, N. J., 
where he died, April 12, 18G1, after a protracted illness. 
During his residence in New York he was a candidate 
for the vice-presidency of the United States, on the 
same ticket with Henry Clay for president, in 1844. 
Mr. Frelinghnysen’s civil, forensic, and political emi- 
nence was eclipsed by the lustre of his Christian and 
philanthropic career. His piety was humble, devout, 
genial, simple, and most carefully cultivated. His 
religions life was felt with unusual power at the bar, 
in the Senate, in society, and in the Church, lie was 
a Sunday-school teacher almost until his death. His 
efforts for the salvation of public men — presidents, 
governors, senators, judges, and others — were most 
remarkable and blessed. Especially was he in the 
place of father, pastor, and adviser to the young men 
over whom he presided in the university and college. 
He was one of the foremost Temperance advocates 
and laborers in his generation. His eloquent tongue 
was ever ready to plead for every good Christian or 
humane cause. The American Sunday-school Union, 
the American Colonization Soeietv, and other benev- 
olent enterprises, often shared in these efforts. At 
one time, and for years together, he was the president 
of those three greatest of our Christian voluntary as- 
sociations — the American Bible Society, the American 
Tract Society, and the American Board of Commis- 
sioners for Foreign Missions. Necessarily he was a 
Christian patriot of the first order. His eloquent 
speech in the United States Senate on the Indian Bill, 
andjiis eourse on the Sunday-mail Question, told with 
electric force upon the whole eountrv. And when the 
civil war broke out in 1861, he was among the first, the 
most decided, pronounced, and enthusiastic of all the 
eminent defenders of the Union. The completeness 
of his elevated character and record is remarkable, 
and his name will ever be illustrious for its goodness 
and greatness. A memoir of his life and services by 
Rev. T. AV. Chambers, D.D., was issued by Harper 
and Brothers, N. Y., 18G3, 12mo. (W. J. R.T.) 

French, TYilliajt. D.D., a distinguished divine 
and mathematician, was educated at Cains College, 
Cambridge, and became second wrangler in 1811. He 


soon after became fellow and tutor of Pembroke Col- 
lege, was made M.A. in 1814, master of Jesus College 
in 1820, and D.D. in 1821. He was successively ap- 
pointed viec-chancellor in 1821 and 1834, rector of 
Moor-Monkton, Yorkshire, in 1827, and canon of Ely 
in 1832. He died in 1849. He published A new 
translation of the Booh of Psalms from the original He- 
brew (new eel. Bond. 1842, Svo) : — A new translation of 
the Proverbs of Solomon from the original Hebrew , with 
Notes by W. French and G. Skinner (Loud. 1831, Svo). 
— Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

French Confession (Confessio Gallicana). See 
Gallioan Confession. 

French Lutheran Church. See France. 
French Reformed Church. See F rance, and 
Reformation. 

French Roman Catholic Church. See 

France, and Gallioan Church. 

French Prophets, the name given in England to 
a sect formed by the Camisards, who came over to Eng- 
land about 170G, and who brought with them the “gift 
of prophecy, ’’and soon made converts in England. The 
great subject of their predictions was the speedy estab- 
lishment of Messiah’s kingdom. “ Their message was 
(and they were to proclaim it as heralds to every nation 
under heaven), that the grand jubilee, ‘the acceptable 
year of the Lord,’ the accomplishment of those numer- 
ous scriptures concerning the new heavens and the 
new earth , the kingdom of the Messiah , the marriage of 
the Lamb , the first resurrection , or the new Jerusalem de- 
scending from above , was now even at the door; that 
tins great operation was to be effected by spiritual 
arms only, proceeding from the mouths of those who 
should by inspiration, or the mighty gift of the Spirit, 
be sent forth in great numbers to labor in tbe vino- 
vard ; that this mission of God’s servants should be 
witnessed to hv signs and wonders from heaven, by 
a deluge of judgments on the wicked universally 
throughout the world, as famine, pestilence, earth- 
quakes, wars, etc. ; that the exterminating angels 
should root out the tares, and there shall remain upon 
earth only good corn ; and the works of men being 
thrown clown, there shall be but one Lord, one faith, 
one heart, and one voice among mankind. And they 
declared that all the great things they had spoken of 
would be manifest over the whole earth within the 
term of three years. These prophets also pretended to 
the gift of languages, of miracles, of discerning, etc. : 
discerning the secrets of the heart; the power of con- 
ferring the same spirit on others by the laying on of 
hands, and the gift of healing. To prove they were 
really inspired by the Holy Ghost, they alleged the 
complete joy and satisfaction they experienced, the 
spirit of prayer which was poured forth upon them, 
and the answer of their prayers by the Most High. 
These pretensions, however, laid the foundation of 
their detection and complete overthrow. They went 
so far as to pretend to raise the dead, and fixed upon 
one of their own number for the experiment, who was 
to rise on a particular day. But Dr. Ernes did not 
rise” (Adams, View of all Religions'). They obtained, 
for some time, considerable success in Great Britain, 
having their admiring followers not only in London, 
hut also in the chief provincial towns. They were 
even joined by some parties of influence, such as Sir 
Richard Bulkely, Lady Jane Forbes, John Lacey, Esq., 
and others. Mr. Lacey, who was originally a member 
of Dr. Calamy’s congregation, entered, we are told, 
“ into all their absurdities, except that of a community 
of goods, to which he strongly objected, having an in- 
come of £2000 per annum.” The influence of the 
prophets speedily declined ; but their proceedings left 
a stigma for a time upon the reputation of the Hugue- 
not refugees settled in Britain. See Hughson, A Co- 
pious Account of the French and English Prophets , etc. 
(London, 1814). A curious tract, entitled A Brand 


FRENCH VERSIONS 602 FRENCH VERSIONS 


snatched from the Burning , by Samuel Keimer, who ' 
was one of the sect, and afterwards became a Quaker i 
and came to America, professes to give an account of 
the French prophets “by one of themselves.” The 
claims of the French prophets resemble, in some re- 
spects, those of the modern Irvingitcs (see English Be- 
dew, ix, 22 sq.). 

French Versions of the Holy Scriptures.— 
I. We may gather from the conciliar edicts prohibit- 
ing the use of translations of the sacred books in the 
vulgar tongue that such existed as early as the begin- 
ning of the loth century ( Acta ConcU. Tolos. c. 14, ap. 
Mansi, xxiii, 197 ; comp, those also of the Synod of 
Tarragona in 1*23-1, and Beziers in 1240), and even as I 
early as 1199, Pope Innocent III had heard that “evan- 
gclia, epistolas Pauli, moral ia Job, et plnrcs alios libros 
in Gallico sermone,” were in use among the Albigenses 
(. Epist . ed. Balnze, i, 432) ; but we are very much in the 
dark as to the character of these translations, or the 
source whence they emanated. Writers on the Wal- 
densian Church assert the existence of translations in 
the Romance dialect possessed by that church anterior 
to the 12th century (Monastier, JJistorg of the Veatdois, 
p. 73; Henderson, The Vaudois, p. 248; Cl illy , The Ro- 
maunt Version of the Gospel of St.John, etc., Lond. 1848); 
but the evidence on which this is advanced does not 
stand the test of a thorough scrutiny. In the Xobla 
Legezon, which contains the religions belief of that 
church, there are several citations of Scripture, but 
there is no evidence that these arc made from any ex- 
tant version ; and, at any rate, this work cannot be 
placed earlier than the end of the 12th or beginning of 
the 13th century (Hallam, Hist, of Literature, i, 2G). 
Walter de Mapes says that, during the pontificate of 
Alexander 111 (1159-31831, he was present at a synod 
at Rome where certain Waldensians presented to the 
pope a book written in the Gallic tongue, “in quo 
textns et glossa Psalterii pi urimor unique legis litrius- 
qne librorum continebatur” {De Xugis Cunal. p. G4, 
Camden Society cd. ; Usher, De Chr. Ecclcs. Success. 
in Opp. cd. Elrington, ii, 241); but it is doubtful wheth- 
er any part of this was in the vernacular except the 
gloss, which in a translation would be of little use. 
That Peter Yaldo himself possessed a vernacular trans- 
lation of the Scriptures has been asserted; but, vlien 
examined, this tradition resolves itself into the fact 
that lie requested a grammarian, Stephanus de Ansa, 
to supply him with a translation of the Gospels and 
other books of the Bible, “ et auctoritates sanctorum ;” 
but whether it was a “textus cum glossa,” or “ sen- 
tentias per titulos congregatas,” the witnesses leave 
uncertain. From what Reiner says (ap. Usher, l. c.), 
“Cum csset [Yaldus] aliquantnlnm literatus, Novi 
Testamenti textum docuit cos vulgariter,” the pre- 
sumption is that no vernacular version existed, but 
that Yaldo in preaching translated for his hearers, i. o., 
probably gave them the glosses which Stephanus had 
collected for him. Trithemius, however, expressly 
says, “ Libros sacrie scriptural maxime Novi Testa- 
menti sibi in lingnam Gallicam fecit trnnsferri” (Ann. 
JHrsaugiens. aim. 1IG0, i, 4-12). The MSS. of the Wal- 
densian versions preserved at Zurich, Grenoble, Dub- 
lin, and Paris arc not of an earlier date than the lGth 
century, nor can the version they present claim any 
high antiquity. That vernacular versions of the N. 
T., and portions of the Old, existed among the so-call- 
ed Sectaries of the south of France from an early pe- 
riod does not admit of doubt, but we are not in cir- 
cumstances to say anything definite concerning them. 
Dr. Gill}' (p. xxii) has called attention to t lie curious 
fact that an English ecclesiastic in 1345 disposed by 
will of a copy of the Romance Bible, “ Bihulam (Bihli- 
am ?) in Romanam lingnam translatam” (Publications 
of Surtees Soc. for 383G, ii, 10). In the library of the 
Aeademie dcs Arts at Lyons there is a Codex contain- 
ing the N. T. in Romance, to which is appended the 
liturgy of the Cathari, indicating its origin among 


them (Gieseler, Church Hist, iii, 409). In the north of 
France also we have some clear traces of vernacular 
copies of the Scriptures. A translation of the four 
books of Kings in the dialect of the north of Franco 
(langue cl' Oil) lias been published (Paris, 1841, 4to) by 
M. Lcroux de Lincy, who attributes it to the 12th cen- 
tury. M. Rcuss lias examined and described in the 
Revue de Strasbourg (iv, 1 sq.), a Codex preserved in 
the library of that city, which contains in the same 
dialect, somewhat varied, the Pentateuch, Joshua, and 
Judges, with the Glossa ordinaria et interlinearis 
[see Gloss], and the rest of the historical books of the 
U. T., with the Psalter without the gloss. As re- 
spects the translation said to have been executed, eir. 
1250, for Louis IX, that of Du Yignicr (cir. 1340), that 
of De Sy (1350), and that of Yaudetar (1372), wc can 
say nothing more than that tradition asserts that such 
did once exist. 

Of translations of parts of Scripture, chiefly the 
Psalters, into the more modern French, a large num- 
ber exist in MS., of which a copious list is given by Le 
Long in his Libliotheca Sacra. About the year 13s 0 a 
translation was undertaken by command of Charles Y 
of France, by Raoul dc Prailles, of which more than 
, one copy exists. Lc Long gives a description of a 
Codex containing it, with some extracts, by way of 
! specimen, of the language ; and there is another MS. 
of it in the British Museum, of which a full description 
; is given in the Libliotheca Lansdoivniana, p. 284 sq. 
The version in these codices does not go beyond Prov- 
erbs. 

IL Emerging from these obscurer regions of in- 
quiry, we come to those versions which have been 
printed, and of which it is possible to give a certain 
account. 

1. That of Guiars des Moulins, an ecclesiastic of 
Picardy. Taking as his basis the Ilistoria Sdiolastica 

_ of Peter Comcstor, a digest of the Bible History with 
! glosses, he freely translated this ; adding a sketch of 
the history of Job, the Proverbs, and probably the oth- 
er books ascribed to Solomon ; substituting for Ccmes- 
tor’s history of the Maccabees a translation of this from 
the Yulgate, and in general conforming the vhole 
more closely to the text of the Yulgate than Comestor 
had done. The Psalms, Prophets, and Epistles were 
| not in the work as at first issued, and it is uncertain 
whether the Acts were not also emitted : all these, how- 
ever, were added in later copies. Many MSS. of this 
! work exist, the mot-t important of -which is at Jena. 

| An edition of this Ilible, as completed by different 
I hands, was issued from the press by order of Uliailcs 
Y1II, al out the year 1487, edited by t lie king’s con- 
' fessor, J. dc Rely, and printed by Ycrard, Paris, 2 vols. 

[ fol. Twelve editions of this, some at Paris and some 
I at Lyons, appeared between 3487 and 1545. This is 
called La Grande Bible, to distinguish it from a work 
entitled La Bible pour hs simples gens, which is a sum- 
mary of the history of the O. T., and of which several 
undated editions have been examined. Previous to 
the edition of 1817, an edition of the N. T., of the same 
translation as that found in the completed works of 
Guiars, but not by Guiars himself, was printed at Ly- 
ons by Barth. Buyer, fob, and edited by two Augustin- 
inn monks, Julien Macho and Peter Target: it is un- 
dated, but is referred to the year 1478, and justly claims 
to be the Editio Princeps of the French Scriptures. 

2. In the year 1523 appeared at Paris, from the 
press of Simon de Colines, an anonymous translation 
of the N. T., which was often reprinted, and to which, 
in 1525, was added the Psalter, and in 1528 the rest of 
the (>. T. (together 7 vols. Svo), the last portion being 
issued at Antwerp, in consequence of attempts on the 
part of the French clergy to prevent its appearance. 
Tradition ascribes this version to Jacques lc Ferre 
d’Etaples, who had before this distinguished himself 
by a Latin translation of Paul’s epistles, and by exeget- 
ical works outlie Gospels and Epistles ; and there is no 


FRENCH VERSIONS 


663 


FRERET 


reason to question the justice of the ascription. This 
version is made from the Vulgate, with slight varia- 
tions in the N. T., where the author follows the Greek. 
The complete work appeared in one vol. fol., at Ant- 
werp, in 1530, and again from the same types in 1532. 
It was placed in the papal Index in 1546 ; but in 1550 
it was reissued at Louvain in fol., edited by two priests, 
Nicolas de Leuze, and Franz van Larben, who correct- 
ed the style, and struck out all that savored of what 
they deemed heresy. Of this corrected version many 
editions have been issued. 

3. The first French Protestant version was pre- 
pared by Pierre Robert Olivetnn, a relation of Calvin, 
and was printed at Serricres, near Ncufchatcl, in Switz- 
erland, iu 1535, fol. Of this edition very few copies 
remain. It was reprinted at Geneva in 1540, at Ly- 
ons in 1541, and, with a few emendations from the pen 
of Calvin, again at Geneva in 1545. In 1551 a thor- 
oughly revised edition, with the addition of some of 
the apocryphal books by Bcza, and a new translation 
of the Psalms b} r Bude, was issued at Geneva. It has 
often been reprinted since. An edition for the use of 
the Vaudois, and for which they subscribed 1500 gold- 
en crowns, was printed at Neufchatel in 1556. This 
translation was made for the O. T. from the Latin ver- 
sion of Santes Pagninus, and for the N. T. after the 
versions of Lcfevre and Erasmus. In its first form it 
was very imperfect, and even after the revisal of Cal- 
vin, and the emendations of subsequent editors, it re- 
mained behind the requirements of an authorized ver- 
sion. 

4. To remed}’’ the defects of Olivctan's version, and 
to produce one more suited to the wants of the age, the 
Venerable Company of Pastors at Geneva undertook a 
thorough revisal of the work, with the special aid of 
Beza, Goulart, Fay, etc., and under the editorial care 
of Cornelius Bertram. This appeared in 1588. In 
this revision, !"PrP, which in all the other Protestant 
versions is rendered by a word equivalent to Lord, is 
throughout translated L'JCtrrnel. Revised editions 
have been issued by the Venerable Company in 1693, 
1712, 1726, 1805, and of the N. T. in 1833 ; the last two 
very much modernized in style. This claims to be the 
most elegant of the French versions, but it is far from 
being an adequate rendering of the original. 

5. The Bible of Diodati, Gen. 1614; of Desmarets, 
Amst. 1669 ; of Martin, Utr. (N. T.) 1696, (Bible) 1707, 
2 vols. fol. ; of Roques, Basle, 1744 ; Osterwald, Amst. 
1724; Neufcb. 1744, are revisions of Olivctan’s text, 
undertaken by individuals. Of these, Osterwald 's is 
the most thorough, and may be viewed as occupying 
the place in the French Frotestant Church of an au- 
thorized version, though Martin's is the one most es- 
teemed by the more orthodox of its members, while 
that of Desmarets is sought by those who attach much 
value to fine paper and printing. A carefully revised 
edition of O s tar w aid's Bible, with parallels by the Rev. 
M\ Mackenzie, has been issued by the French Bible 
Society, Paris, 1861. 

6. Of avowedly new translations from the original by 
individuals may be mentioned that of Scb. Chastillon 
(Castalio), 2 vols. fol., Basle, 1555, in which the trans- 
lator aimed to impart classical elegance to the style, 
but which was universally regarded as neither convey- 
ing the just sense of the original, nor being in accord- 
ance with French idiom ; that of Le Clere, 2 vols. 4to. 
Amst. 1703, in the interests of Armininnism ; that of 
Le Cene, published after his death in 2 vols. fol., Amst. 
1711, deeply marked by Socinian leanings; and that 
of Beausobrc and L’Enfant, 2 vols. 4to, Amst. 1718. 
This last is by much the best, and has been repeatedly 
reprinted. See Hkatsobke. 

7. Of Roman Catholic versions of the Bible, the first 
is that of Rene Benoist, a member of the theological 
faculty at Paris, which appeared in 1566, It was con- 
demned by Pope Gregory XIII in 1575, and involved 
the author in much trouble because of its supposed 


Protestant leanings. It is, in fact, only a slightly al- 
tered transcript of the Geneva Bible. A revised edi- 
tion, conformed to the Vulgate, was proposed and is- 
sued by the divines at Louvain. Four translations of 
the N. T. had appeared before this, viz. that of Claude 
Deville, 1613; that of Jaques Corbin, an advocate of 
Paris, 1643 ; that of Michel de Marolles, abbe of Villc- 
loin, 1649; and in 1666 that of Denys Amelotte, a 
priest of the oratory, whose hatred of the Jansenists 
and desire to damage their version, then in the press, 
prompted him to a work for which he was wholly unfit, 
and the blunders of which drew down on him the un- 
sparing criticism of Richard Simon, a priest of his own 
order. Marolles had begun a translation of the O. T., 
but it was suppressed after the printing had proceeded 
as far as Lev. xxiii. A translation of the N. T. by the 
theologians of Louvain appeared in 1686; of this only 
a few copies exist. All these arc made from the Vul- 
gate. So also is the famous Jansenist translation be- 
gun by Antoine Lemaitre, and finished by his brother 
Isaac Louis Lemaitre de Sacy, aided by Antoine Ar- 
nauld, I*. Nicole, etc. The N. T. was first published 
in 2 vols. 8vo in 1667, and subsequently the O. T., 
nominally at Mons, but really at Amsterdam. It is 
variously styled the version of Mons, the version of 
Port Ro 3 r al, but now commonly the version of De 
Sacy. Many editions of it have appeared, with and 
without notes ; the best is that of Fosse and Beaubrnn, 
Par. 1682, 3 vols. 8vo; a beautifully illustrated edition 
was issued at Paris in 1789-1804, in 12 vols. 8vo. It 
was with an edition of this version, altered so as to be 
more conformed to the Vulgate, that Quesnel publish- 
ed his Reflections , 1671-80. The translation of Calmct, 
in his Commentate Littered et Critique , Paris, 1724, may 
he also viewed as a revised edition of the Mons Bible. 
Antoine Godean, bishop of Grasse, published a trans- 
lation made from the Vulgate, in 2 vols. 8vo, Paris, 
1668. It hol.ds a middle place between a literal ver- 
sion and a paraphrase. The translation of Nic. Lc- 
gros was published anonymously at Cologne in 1739, 
and afterwards with his name in several editions. Of 
the N. T., a translation, from the pen of Richard Si- 
mon, appeared anonymously in 1702 at Trevoux. This 
version was charged by Bossuet with Socinian lean- 
ings, and was condemned by Cardinal (le Noaillcs. 
Of the translation by Hure, 1702, and that by the Jes- 
uits Bouhours, Tcllier, and Bernier, between 1697 and 
1703, it may suffice to make mention. 

8. In our own day several versions of the Psalms 
have appeared in France. A translation of the whole 
Bible from the Vulgate, by Eugene Gerondc, in 23 
vols. 8vo, appeared at Paris between 1820 and 1824. 
This has frcquentl} r been reprinted, and has excited 
much attention, some of the journals vehemently com- 
mending it, while by others it has been no less severe- 
ly criticised. The latest appearance in this depart- 
ment is the translation of the Gospels by La Mennais, 
1846, the style of which is admirable, but the notes ap- 
pended to it are in the interest of Socialism. But the 
most important work of this kind is undoubtedly the 
translation from the Hebrew of the O. T. by S. Cahen, 
La Bible: Traduction Xonvelle avec Vllebreu en regard , 
etc. Par. 1832-39, 18 vols. 8vo. (Le Long, Bibliotheca 
Sacra; Simon, Hist. Crit. du N. Test. liv. ii; Brunet, 
Manuel du Libraire ; Horne, Introduction , vol. ii, pt. 2; 
Reuss, Gesch. des V. T. sec. 466, etc. ; and in Herzog’s 
Real-Enci/llnp. s. v. Romanische BibelUbers. ; Darling, 
ICncycl. Bibliogr. ii, 99 sq.). — Kitto, Cyclop, s. v. 

Freret, Nicolas, a celebrated French scholar, was 
born at Paris February 15, 1688, and died in the same 
city March 8, 1749. lie at first studied law, hut aban- 
doned it for literature, cspeciall 3 r for investigations into 
the languages, history, and religious systems of ancient 
and Oriental peoples. At the age of twenty- five he 
was admitted to the Academy of Inscriptions, and gave 
as his inaugural a discourse on the origin of the Franks, 
which, though favorably received by the Academy, and 


FRESCO PAINTING 


664 


FREY 


vindicated in great part by the subsequent progress of | 
historical research, was strongly opposed by the abbe 
Vertot, and led to Freret’s being sent for a short 
time to the Bastile. On his release he produced a 
long series of papers for the Academy of Inscriptions, 
which gave him great reputation for learning and re- 
search. In treating mythology, he rejected the theory 
which traces back religious fables to historical facts i 
[see Euiieiuerus], assigned to the historical element 
a secondary place, and thought that the Greeks had 
borrowed most of their divinities from the Egyptians 
and Phoenicians, lie extended his investigations also 
to the religions of the Celts, the Germans, the llin- ! 
dus, tlio Chinese, the Persians, and the Homans, and 
was one of the first in France to prosecute the study of 
Chinese. Of his writings we name only those which 
belong more especially to the subjects embraced in this 
work, viz. : Essai sn r la Chronologic de VEcritu.ro iSubtie 
(Histoire de l’Acad. tom. xxiii) : — Observations snr les 
fetes religienses de Vannee persanc-, et en particulier sur 
cclle de M it hr a, tant chcz les Persons que chez les Ro- 
mains (Mem. de 1’Acad. t. xvi) : — J Inflexions generates 
sur la Nature de la religion des Grecs , et sur Videe qu on j 
doit se former de leur Mytkologie (Hist, de l’Acad. tom. 
xxiii) : — Reclterches sur le Culte de Bacchus par mi les 
Grecs (Mem. de l’Acad. t. xiii); — La Nature du Culte 
rendu en Grece aitx keros , et particulierement a Esculcipe 
(Hist, de l’Acad. t. xxi) : — Hist, des Cyclopes, des Dactyles, 
des Telchines , des Curetes et Corybantes, et des Cabires i 
(Hist, de l’Acad. t. xxiii et xxvii): — Les Fondements 
historiques de la fable de Bellerophon et la maniere de 
Vexpliquer (Hist, de l’Acad. t. vii; Mem. t. vii): — Ob- 
servations sur les recucils de piredictions eentes qui por- \ 
taient le nom de If usee, de Bucis et de la Sibylfe (Mem. 
de l’Acad. t. xxiii) : — Observations sur les oracles renelus 
par les nines des morts (Mem. t. xxiii) : — Observations 
sur la religion des Gaulois et sur celle des Germains 
(Mem. de l’Acad. t. xxiv) : — Etymologic du mot Druide 
(Hist, de 1’Acad. t. xvii) : — La Nature et les dogmas des 1 
plus connus de la religion gauloise (Hist.de 1’Acad. t. 
xviii) : — V Usage des sacrifices humains etabli chez les 
different cs nations et particidierement chez les Gaulois 
(Hist, de l’Acad. t. xviii) : — Reclterches sur le dieu Her- j 
cide Endovcllicus et snr quelqncs autres antiquites iberi- 
ques (Hist, de l’Aead. t. iii) : — Les Assassins de Perse I 
(Mem. t. xvii). Leclerc de Septchenes published a | 
collection of Freret’s works under the title ( Euvres 
completes , nouv. edit, considerablement augment fe de plu- 
sievrs ouvrages inedits (Paris, 1796-99, 20 vols. 12mo), 
hut, despite its title, bv no means a complete edition. 

. — I Ioefer, Nour. Biog. Goner, xviii, 807-818 ; Pose, A ew 
Biog . Diet, vii, 451. (JAV. M.) 

Fresco Fainting, a method of painting with 
mineral and earthy colors dissolved in water, upon 
freshly - plastered walls. As only so much can be 
painted in one day as can he executed while the plas- 
ter is wet, and as the colors become lighter on drying, 
fresco painting is very difficult of execution. As the 
wall dries, all the color that is applied is carried to the 
surface, and there forms a coating to the wall. But 
little retouching can he done. Fresco painting was 
carried to great perfection by the ancients. It was re- 
vived, by the Italian painters especially, during the 
Middle Ages. It again fell into disuse from the sev- 
enteenth till the present century, when it has been re- 
vived by Cornelius, Ovcrbeck, and others. With the 
exception, perhaps, of mosaic painting (q. v.), fresco 
painting is better adapted than any other style to the 
production of monumental works of art. For full ef- 
fectiveness, it requires the natural light, and hence 
cannot be used with success in churches or other build- 
ings which are lighted with windows of stained glass. 
— Kuglur and Sclmaase, Gesch. dcr Jfalerei. (G. F. G.) 

Fresenius, Johann Pniinrr, a German Luther- 
an clergyman, was horn Oct. 22, 1705. After finish- 
ing his theological studies at the University of Stras- 


burg in 1725, he became tutor of the young Phinegrave 
of Salm-Grumbach. In 1727 he succeeded his father 
as pastor of Oberwiesen, and in 1734 became second 
“ Burgprcdiger” at Giessen. In the following year 
lie also began to give exegetical and ascetic lectures 
at the university of that city. From 173G to 1742 he 
was llofdiaconus (aulic deacon) at Darmstadt; from 
1742 to 1743 again preacher and professor at Giessen. 
In 1743 he accepted a call from the magistracy of 
Frankfort on the Main, where he remained until his 
death, which occurred July 4, 17G1. In 1749 he re- 
ceived from the University of Gottingen the title of 
doctor of divinity. Fresenius enjoyed great reputa- 
tion as a powerful preacher and experienced spiritual 
guide. From early youth he displayed a great zeal in 
the defence of Lutheran orthodoxy and of Lutheran 
prerogatives, and thus became involved in numerous 
controversies. In 1731 he wrote a work (A ntmeislin- 
gerus ) against a scurrilous pamphlet (Friss Vogel eder 
iStirb ) against Lutheranism by the Jesuit Weislinger, 
and produced thereby so great an excitement among 
Roman Catholics that a plan was made to kidnap him, 
with the aid of an Austrian army then stationed on the 
Rhine. He had to flee for safety to Darmstadt. In 
that city he caused the establishment of an institute for 
proselytes, and became its director and inspector. In 
Frankfort he opposed the effort of the Rcjormed con- 
gregations to obtain the public exercise of their relig- 
ion and the permission for building churches. He 
was, in particular, a determined and even violent op- 
ponent of count Zinzendorf and the Moravians. Zin- 
zendorf regarded him as the most energetic opponent, 
and called him an “incarnate devil” ( ' eingefeischien 
Teufel). Some of his works are still in common use 
in the German Lutheran Church. Thus the Jleilsa- 
me Betrachtungen ueber die Bonn-und Festtagse range- 
lien, which first appeared in 1750, were published in a 
new edition in 1845 (2d ed. 1854) by Johann Friedrich 
von Mever (q. v.), and of his Epistelpredigten , first 
published in 1754, a new edition was issued in 1858 
by Ledderliose. His controversial writings against the 
Moravians number 24 volumes (Streitschriften gegen 
die Jlerrnhuter. Frankf. 1748-GO). — Steitz in Herzog, 
Real-Encykl. xix, 501. (A. J. S.) 

Fresne, Du. See Du Cange. 

Frey, Jean Louis, a Swiss theologian and philol- 
ogist, was born at Basle in 1G82, and died in the same 
place in 1759. He is said to have been familiar with 
Hebrew at ten years of age. He was a pupil of Jean 
Buxtorf, under whom he studied Hebrew, Chaldee, 
Syriac, and Arabic. In 1703 he became a minister, 
and then travelled through Europe to increase his 
knowledge. In 1711 he was made professor of his- 
tory and theology at Berne, and subsequently of Bib- 
lical exegesis, which chair he filled till his death. He 
was distinguished for the extent and variety of his 
knowledge. He left a considerable sum of money, 
and his own library of more than 8000 volumes, for 
the benefit of the library and students of the college at 
Basle. Together with other works, we have from him 
Disputatio in qua Moliammedis de Jesu-Christo sententia 
expenditur (Basle, 1703) : — De Officio Doctoi’is Chrisfiani 
dissert ationes iv (1711-1715). He edited a corrected 
aiul enlarged edition of Suicer's Thesaurus Ecclesiasti- 
cus (Amsterdam, 1728, 2 vols. fob), an edition of J 
Grynams’s Opuscida, etc., and wrote many of the notes 
for the edition of the Patres Apostolici, published in 
Basic in 1742. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biogr. Generate, xviii, 
841-2. (J. AV. M.) 

Frey, Joseph Samuel Christian Frederick, 

was horn in Germany of Jewish parents. At the age 
of twenty-five he became a Christian, and in 181G came 
to the United States. He was then and for some years 
a Presbyterian minister, and subsequently became a 
Baptist. But he never ceased to he a Jew in feeling, 
and was an enthusiastic votary of Rabbinical studies* 


065 


FRIDAY 


FREYA 


which influenced him as a Biblical interpreter. ITc 
labored chiefly for the conversion of the Jews, was 
agent of “ The American Society for Ameliorating the 
Condition of the Jews ” and edited a periodical called 
The Jewish Intelligencer. He died at Pontiac, Michi- 
gan, in 1850, in the 79th year of his age. He was the 
author of a “Narrative” of his life : — “Joseph and Ben- 
jamin,” a work on the differences between Jews and 
Christians: — Judah and Israel ; or the Restoration of 
Christianity (1837, 12mo) : — lectures on Scripture Types 
(1841, 12mo). He also published an edition of the He- 
brew Bible, a Hebrew Lexicon, Grammar, and Read- 
er, and The Hebrew Student's Pocket Conqumion. See 
Sprague, Annals , vi, 757. (L. E. S.) 

Freya, the goddess of the moon and love in the 
Scandinavian mythology, was the daughter of Niord 
and sister of Freyr, and is regarded by some as origin- 
ally the same with Frigga (q. v.), to whom, among the 
goddesses, she ranks next in power and honor. She 
is described as beautiful, virtuous, and gentle, and ever 
ready to hear the prayers of men; as fond of music, 
flowers, fairies, and the spring, and the source of in- 
spiration of the love-songs of the scalds. In the myths, 
which represent her, like Isis, as seeking her absent 
spouse (Odin), and as ranking next to Frigga, the 
earth-goddess, we may have SAunbolized the relation 
of the moon to the earth and the sun, and find an ex- 
plication of those resemblances which have led to the 
confounding her with Frigga. “She is always de- 
scribed as attended by two of her maids” (see pi. 13, 
fig. 4, Mythology and Religious Rites , in Icon. EncyclopI). 
The name of Friday, the sixth day of the week, is de- 
rived from her. — I conographic Encyclopedia, iv, 279-80 
(N.Y. 1851) ; Thorpe. Northern Mythology. (J. W. JM.) 

Freylinghausen, Johans Anastasius, an emi- 
nent German Pietist theologian, was born at Ganders- 
lieim Dec. 2, 1G70. He studied theology at Jena in 
1G89, and at llalle in 1G92. In the latter place he gain- 
ed the friendship of Aug. H. Francke, whose vicar he 
became in 1G95 at Glaucha, a suburb of llalle. In 1715 
he became Francke’s son-in-law, his adjunct in the 
church of St. Ulrich, and was afterwards made direct- 
or of the Waisenhaus (orphan house). He died Feb. 
12, 1739. His principal works are, Grumllegung der 
Theologie (llalle, 1703, often reprinted): — Predigten u. 
d. Sonn u. Festtagsepisteln (Halle, 1728) : — Busspredigten 
(1734) : — he also published Geistliches gesangbuch , etc. 
(Halle, 1704-1714, 2 vols. ; latest edit. 1741). Forty of 
these hymns are of his own composition, and some of 
the best of them are translated in Miss Wink worth’s 
Lyra Germanica. See A. H. Niemeyer, Lebcnsbeschrei- 
bung (Halle, 178G); J. L. Schulze, Dmkmal d.Liebe u. 
Iloch'ich'ung fur F. (Halle, 1784); L. Pasig, Biogra- 
phische Skizze Es (A. Knapp’s Christoterpe, 1852, p. 
211); Herzog, Re tl-Euctjkl. iv, 591 ; Doeriiig, Gelehrt. 
Thiol. Deutschlands , i, 491. (J. N. P.) 

Freyr, in the Scandinavian mythology, one of the 
dynasty of the Vanir, or second class of gods, and son 
of Niord, was, together with his father and sister Freya, 
given as a hostage to the Asir, or first class of gods, who 
adopted them, and bestowed on Freyr for a dwelling the 
celestial castle of A If helm, lie was the god of the sun 
and fruitfulness, to whom men prayed for favoring sea- 
sons and peace, and was regarded as well disposed to 
men. lie was a patron of marriage, and the patron 
god of Sweden and Iceland. His chief temple was at 
Upsala, and sacrifices of men and animals were made to 
him. His festival was at the winter solstice, and his 
procession the signal for the ceasing of strife. The 
myths relate that Freyr, once mounting Illidskialf 
the lofty seat of Odin, whence everything on earth 
was visible, beheld in the high north, where dwelt the 
giants, the wondrously beautiful Gerda, the brightness 
of whose naked arms filled both air and sea with light, 
and was so smitten with love for her that he could 
neither eat, drink, or sleep. His parents, by means 


of his faithful servant Skyrnir, found ont the cause 
of his malady, and, after much trouble, succeeded in 
obtaining Gerda for his wife. Freyr is represented 
(Icon. Fncyklop. Mythology and Religious Rites , pi. 13, 
fig. 3) with a halo around his head, and holding in his 
right hand cars of wheat, and in his left an urn whence 
water flows, with the boar Gullinbursti at his feet, and 
sometimes (Ibid. pi. 11, fig. G) as standing at the left 
of Odin, with a branch of something in his right and a 
drinking-horn in his left hand. — Iconographic Fncgclo- 
peedia, iv, 279 (N. Y. 1851); Thorpe, Northern Mythol- 
ogy. (J.W.M.) 

Friar (Lat .f rater, Fr .frere, brother), a term com- 
mon to monks of all kinds, founded on the supposition 
that there is a brotherhood between the persons of the 
same monastery. It is especially applied to members 
of the four mendicant orders, viz. 1. Franciscans , Mi- 
norites, or Gray Friars ; 2. A ugustines ; 3. Dominicans , 
or Black Friars ; 4. Carmelites , or White Friars. In a 
more restricted sense, the word means a monk avIio is 
not a priest : those in orders are generally denomina- 
ted father. 

Frick, Albert, a German theologian, was born 
at Ulm Sept. 18, 1714, and died May 30, 177G. lie 
studied at Leipsic, and was appointed assessor (judge) 
to the faculty of theology. In 1743 he became minis- 
ter at Jungingen, but, returning to Ulm in 1741, tilled 
the post of librarian and professor of morals. In 1751 
he went to Minister as preacher, and in 17G8 was 
named head librarian. Among his writings are His - 
toria tradltionum ex monnmentis Ecclesice Christiana} 
(Ulm, 1740) : — De Natura et Constitutione Theologies 
Catecheticce (Ulm, 17G1-G4, 4to). — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
G morale , xviii, 871. (JAY. M.) 

Frick, Elias, a German theologian, was born at 
Ulm Nov. 2, 1G73, and died Feb. 7, 1751. He studied at 
the gymnasium of his native city and at the universi- 
ties of Leipsic and Jena, and in 1704 was pastor at 
Boehringen, in 1708 pastor at Bermaringen, in 1712 
preacher in Ulm, in 1729 professor of morals in the gym- 
nasium of Ulm, and also, in 1739, head librarian. We 
have from him De Studio pads et benevolentiee omnium 
erg i omnes (1704) : — Diss. i et ii de cura veterum circa 
hxrese.s (Ulm, 1704 and 173G), followed by liis treatise 
De Catechisatione veteris et recentioris Fcclesicd : — HelU 
leuchtende Wahrheit der Lehre vom heiligen Abendmahl, 
etc. (Ulm, 1725). — Iloefer, Nouv. Blog. Gen. xviii, 871. 

Frick, Johann, a German theologian, brother of 
the preceding, was born at Ulm Dec. 30, 1G70, and 
died March 2, 1739. After studying at the gymnasi- 
um of his native city lie went to the University of 
Leipsic, where he applied himself especially to theolo- 
gy, and at an early date took part in editing the Acta 
Fruditoruni . In iC98 he was named archdeacon of 
Umenau, but, owing to bad health, could not perform 
the duties. After his recovery he was appointed pas- 
tor at Pfuhl. In 1701 he went to Munster as preach- 
er, and in 1712 was called to the chair of theology 
there, liis principal works are, Grand der Wahrheit 
von deni grossen Ikmptunterschiede der evangclischen 
und roemisch-catholischen Religion (1707) : — Britannia 
rectius de Lufheranis edocta , etc. (Ulm, 1709, 4to) : — In- 
clementia Clementis examinata, etc. (Ulm, 1714): — Die 
bulla Unigenitus, oder Clementis XI Constitution, etc. 
(1714) : — Dissertatio solemnis de culpa schismatis protes - 
tantibus immerito impntata , etc. (Ulm, 1717, 4to): — 
Zozimus in Clemente XI redivivns (Ulm, 1719, 4to):— 
Ilf pi rov Aoyou, sire de Verbo aterno Dei Filio , ad pro- 
amium Fvangelii Joannis (Ulm, 1725, 4to): — De Cura 
Ecchsice veteris circa Canonem S. Scriptime et ad con - 
servandam codicum puritatem (Ulm, 1728, 4to). — Hoe- 
fer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xviii, 8G9-70 ; Ersch u. Gru- 
ber, Allgemeine Fneyclopddie , s. v. (JAY. M.) 

Friday is a day of fasting in the Greek and Latin 
churches in memory of the crucifixion of Christ. It 


FRIDEGODE 


G66 


FRIEND 


is a fast-dav in the Church of England, unless Christ- 
mas-day happens to fall on a Friday. 

Fridegode was a monk of Dover in the 10th cen- 
tury, who was chosen by his patron, Odo, archbishop 
of Canterbury, to write in heroic verse a life of St. 
Wilfrid, when, in 956, the relies of that saint were 
brought from Northumbria to Canterbury. Eadmer 
(1 'ita Oswa/di , in Wharton’s Any'ia Sacra ) says that 
Fridegode was Oswald’s teacher, and was thought to 
excel the men of his time in secular and divine learn- 
ing (.1? iff. Sac. ii, 193). His life of Wilfrid is merely 
a poetic version of that by Eddius Stephanas, and so 
abounds in Greek words that, according to William of 
Malmesbury (De (Jest. Pont. p. 200), it needed a sibyl 
to interpret it. Mabillon has published it in the Acta 
Sanctorum, ete. ; a part from an imperfect MS. at Cor- 
vei in S<rc. Hi, pars prima, p. 171-196, and the remain- 
der from a MS. in England in Sac. iv,pars prima, p. 
722-726. Several other works not now extant have 
been attributed to Fridegode. — Wright, Blog. Brit. Lit. 
(Anglo-Saxon Period, p. 433-4). (J.W. M.) 

Fridolin, St. The history of Fridolin, written in 
the 10th century by Valtherus (Walter), a monk of 
Siiekingen, cannot, according to Iiettberg, be consid- 
ered as a really historical source, yet is received by 
learned Roman Catholics as an authority. The best 
edition is contained in Clone’s Qudlcnsmnmlung d. bd- 
disehen Landesgeschichte. All our knowledge of him is 
derived from this biography. The exact time of his 
life even is unknown, but he is generally considered 
as a contemporary of Chlodwig 1 (f 511). According 
to this biography he was a Celt, but left the British 
islands to escape the reputation he had gained ly his 
preaching. In Poitiers he brought baek the people 
and the clergy to the veneration of their St. Hilary, 
whose relies he brought to light, and to whom he 
erected a church. Fie is also said to have been the 
first apostle of Germany. While seeking an island in 
the Rhine which had been shown him in a virion hy 
Hilary, he came to Chur, or, according to others, to 
Glarus, where he brought a dead man back to life ; in 
consequence, he is considered as the patron of the can- 
ton, and is still represented on its coat of arms. lie 
finally found the island he sought between Sehaff hau- 
sen and Basel, and founded there a church to St. Hilary 
and the nunnery of Siiekingen, where, after the Rhine 
bad, at his request, moved to another bed (!), he died, 
on the 0th of November, on which day he is commem- 
orated. According to Rettberg, this biography is a 
legend invented for the purpose of establishing the 
right of the convent to the whole island; and his 
travels w*ere imagined to give the divers churches 
erected to St. Hilary in different places a renowned 
founder. — Herzog, Beal-Encyllop. iv, 595. 

Friedlander, David, a Jewish scholar, was born 
at Konigsberg (Prussia) Pec. (5, 1749. The Reform 
movement at Berlin, under the leadership of Men- 
delssohn (q. v.), attracted him to the Prussian me- 
tropolis, and brought him into relations with Men- 
delssohn. lie devoted himself to educational and oth- 
er reforms among the Jews, and at one time vent so 
far as to propose a union of the Jewish Church with 
t he Christian. In a Sendschreibcn addressed to the 
Protestant clergyman Teller, he asked “ how' it might 
be possible for a conscientious Jew to enter into Chris- 
tian fellowship without making a hypocritical confes- 
sion.” The unfavorable reply which he received to 
this inquiry, and the disapprobation with which it was 
met from many Jews, caused him to abandon the proj- 
ect. Friedliinder was a constant contributor to the 
Berlinische J fonatsscJu'ift, and to the Sammlrr (a Jew- 
ish periodical at Konigsberg, snpj>orted mainly by dis- 
ciples of Kant!. Besides a number of works of infe- 
rior merit, lie translated the liturgies, and contributed 
to Mendelssohn’s great Bible v'ork (r 5np), Das Buck 
Koheleth , im Original mit d. hebraisch. Commentar 


I Mendelssohn’s u. d. Uebers. David Friedlander’s (Ber- 
lin, 1772). He died at Berlin, Dee. 26, 1834. — Jost, 
Gcsch. d. Judetithums u. s. Sdcten, iii, 316; Biographic 
UnivcrseUe , Ixiv, 513; Kitto, Cyclop, of Bib. Lit. ii ; 

I Etheridge, Introd. to Bib. Lit. 477. (J. H. W.) 

Friend “is taken for one whom we love and es- 
teem above others, to whom we impart our minds 
more familiarly than to others, and that from a confi- 
dence of his integrity and good will towards us; thus 
Jonathan and David w*ere mutually friends. Solo- 
mon, in his book of Proverbs, gives the qualities of a 
true friend. ‘A friend lovetli at all times:’ not only 
in prosperity, but also in adversity ; and, ‘ There is 
a friend that stieketh closer than a brother.’ lie is 
more hearty in the performance of all friendly offices ; 
he reproves and rebukes w hen he sees anything amiss, 
j ‘Faithful are the wounds of a friend.’ His sharpest 
reproofs proceed from an upright and truly loving and 
faithful soul. He is known by his good and faithful 
1 counsel, as well as by his seasonable rebukes. ‘ Oint- 
ment and perfume rejoice the heart, so does the sweet- 
ness, of a man’s friend by lieartv counsel:’ by such 
counsel as comes from his ven r heart and soul, and is 
the language of his inward and most serious thoughts. 
The company and conversation of a friend is refreshing 
and reviving to a person who, when alone, is sad, dull, 
and inactive. ‘ Iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharp- 
eneth the countenance of his friend.’ The title, ‘the 
friend of God,’ is principally given to Abraham : ‘Art 
not thou our God, who gavest this land to the seed of 
Abraham, thy friend, forever?’ And in Isaiah xli,8, 
1 But thou Israel art the seed of Abraham, my friend.’ 
‘And the Scripture w*as fulfilled, wdiich saith, Abraham 
believed God, and it was imputed to him for righteous- 
ness; and he was called the friend of God’ (James ii, 
23). This title was given him, not only because God 
frequently appeared to him, conversed familiarly with 
him, and revealed his secrets to him, ‘Shall l hide 
from Abraham that thing which I do?’ (Gen. xviii, 
17), but also because he entered into a covenant of 
! perpetual friendship both with him and his seed. Our 
Saviour calls his apostles ‘friends:’ ‘ But I have call- 
ed you friends ;’ and he adds the reason of it, ‘ For all 
things that 1 have heard of m3’ Father I have made 
known unto 3*011’ (John xv, 15). As men use to eom- 
j niunieate their counsels and their w hole minds to tlieir 
! friends, especially in things which are of an3 r concern, 
or ma} r he of an}* advantage for them to know and un- 
derstand, so I have revealed to 3-011 whatever is neees- 
! sarv for 3*0111* instruction, office, eemfort, and salvation. 
And this title is not peculiar to the apostles only, but 
in common with them to all true believers. The friend 
of the bridegroom is the brideman, he w ho does the 
honors of the wedding, and leads his friend’s spouse to 
the nuptial chamber. John the Baptist, with respeet 
to Christ and his Church, was the friend of the bride- 
groom ; by liis preaehing he prepared the people of the 
1 Jew's for Christ (John iii, 29). Friend is a word of or- 
dinary salutation, whether to a friend or foe; he is 
called friend who had not on a wedding garment 
(Matt, xxii, 12). And our Saviour calls Judas the 
traitor friend. Some are of opinion that this title is 
given to the guest by an irony, or antiplirasis, mean- 
ing the eontraiy to what the word importeth ; or that 
he is called so because he appeared to others to be 
Christ’s friend, or was so in his own esteem and ac- 
count, though falsely, being a Inpocrite. However, 
this being spoken in the person of him who made the 
feast, it is generally taken for a usual compellation, 
and that Christ, following the like courteous custom 
of appellation and friendly greeting, did so salute Ju- 
das, which vet left a sting behind it in his conscience, 
who knew himself to be the reverse of what lie was 
called. The name of friend is likewise given to a 
neighbor. k Which of 3'on shall have a friend, and 
shall go to him at midnight, and sa3*, Friend, lend me 
I three loaves ?’ (Luke xi, 5).” — Watson, Dictionary , 5. v. 


FRIENDLY ISLANDS 


667 


FRIENDS 


Friendly Islands, “as distinguished from the 
Fiji Islands (q. v.), generally reckoned a part of them, 
are otherwise styled the Tonga Group. They stretch 
in S. Iat. from 18° to 23°, and in W. long, from 172° 
to 176°, and consist of about 32 greater and 150 small- 
er islands, about 30 of which are inhabited. The 
great majority are of coral formation, but some are 
volcanic in their origin, and in Tofua there is an act- 
ive volcano. The principal member of the archipelago 
is Tongataboo, or Sacred Tonga , which contains about 
7500 inhabitants, out of a total population of about 
25,000” (Chambers, s. \\). In 1817 the missionaries 
estimated the population at 50,000. Next to Tongata- 
boo, the most important islands are Vavau, with about 
5000 inhabitants, and the Ilabai group, with about 
4000. ‘‘ The Friendly Islands were discovered by Tas- 
man in 1G13, but received their collective name from 
Cook, Both these navigators found the soil closely 
and highly cultivated, and the people apparently un- 
provided with arms. The climate is salubrious, but 
humid; earthquakes and hurricanes are frequent, but 
the former are not destructive” (Chambers, s. v.). 
The first attempt to introduce Christianity was made 
in 1797, when captain Wilson, of the Duff, left ten 
mechanics at Ilihifo, or Tongataboo, in the capacity of 
missionaries. This attempt met with no success. The 
chief under whose protection the}* - resided was mur- 
dered by his own brother, and the island involved in 
a civil war. Three of the missionaries were murdered 
by the natives; the others were robbed of all their 
goods, and in 1800, being utterly destitute, and having 
but little prospect of usefulness among the natives, 
accepted from the captain of an English ship a passage 
to New South Wales. For twenty years after this 
no missionaries visited the islands. In August, 1822, 
the Ilev. Walter La wry, of the Wesleyan Missionary 
Society, arrived at Tongataboo, but he left again the 
next year for New' South Wales. In 1825 the Rev. 
Messrs. John Thomas and John Hutchinson were ap- 
pointed to Tongataboo. They arrived in June, 1826, 
at Ilihifo. In 1827 they were re-enforced by the ar- 
rival of Rev. Nathaniel Turner, Rev. William Cross, 
and Mr. Weiss. They found at Nukualofa, one of the 
chief towns of the island, tw r o native preachers from 
Tahiti, who had been some time employed in that 
locality, preaching to the people in the Tahitian lan- 
guage. They had erected a chapel, and 240 persons 
attended their teaching. In 1830 Mr. Thomas proceed- 
ed to Lifuka, the chief of the Habai Islands. On his 
arrival he found that the king, Taufuahan, had re- 
nounced idolatry. Schools were soon opened both for 
males and females, which were -well attended, chiefly 
by adults, and taught principally by the natives them- 
selves. After being some months in the island, Mr. 
Thomas baptized king Taufaahau, whose conversion 
was followed by that of a large portion of the people. 
Among others was Tamaha, a female chief of the 
highest rank, who had been regarded as a deity, and 
was one of the pillars of popular superstition. In the 
island of Vavau, king Finau also yielded to the exhor- 
tations of the missionaries and of king Taufaahau, and 
with him about a thousand of his people renounced 
idolatry. In 1831 three new missionaries arrived, one 
of whom was a printer. A printing-press was now 
established, at which were printed large editions of 
several school-books, select passages of Scripture, 
hymn-books, catechisms, and other useful books. 
Thus education made great progress, and numerous 
native helpers assisted the missionaries in preaching 
the Gospel in the various islands. In 1834 a powerful 
religious revival occurred, beginning in Vavau, and 
soon extending to the Habai and Tonga islands. It 
was followed by a remarkable reformation of manners. 
Polygamy was now abandoned, marriage became gen- 
eral, and greater decency and modesty prevailed in 
dressing. Among the most zealous of the converts 
was king Taufaahau, who at his baptism w'as called 


king George, while his queen was named Charlotte. 
He erected for the missionaries a very large chapel in 
Habai, and, being a local preacher, p.eached himself 
an appropriate sermon on the occasion. In 1839, king 
George, in a large assembly of the chiefs and people, 
promulgated a code of laws, and appointed judges to 
hear and decide all cases of complaint w T hich might 
arise among them. In June, 1840, the heathen chiefs 
of Tonga, where Christianity had made much less 
progress than in Habai and Vavau, broke out in rebel- 
lion. Captain Croker, of the British ship Favorite, 
who happened to arrive just at this time, united the 
force under his command to that of king George, hut 
he and two of his officers were killed, and the first 
lieutenant and nineteen men dangerously wounded. 
The mission in Tongataboo was broken up for a time, 
but it was resumed at the restoration of peace. In 
1844 king George for a short time became a backslider 
in heart, but soon penitently acknowledged his fall, 
and ever since remained a devoted Christian. In 1845 
he succeeded to the sovereignty of all the islands. In 
1852 a new rebellion broke out in Tonga. It was in- 
stigated by a few chiefs who still adhered to heathen- 
ism ; but the Roman Catholic missionaries made com- 
mon cause with them, and one of them went in search 
of a man-of-war to chastise king George. The latter, 
however, succeeded in suppressing the revolt. In 
November, 1852, a French man-of-war arrived, the 
commander of which, captain BoIIand, had been com- 
missioned by the French governor of Tahiti to inquire 
into certain complaints lodged against king George by 
the captain of a French whaler, and by the Roman 
Catholic priests residing in Tonga. The king obeyed 
the summons of the captain, went on board the man- 
of-war, and had a five-hours’ conversation with the 
captain, who declared himself satisfied with the reports 
made by the king, and in the name of the French gov- 
ernment recognised him as the king of the Friendly 
Islands, only stipulating that the king should protect 
the French residents and tolerate the Roman Catholic 
Church. These conditions were accepted by the king. 
In 1868 paganism in the Friendly Islands was almost 
extinct. Great numbers of the islanders can speak 
English, and, in addition, have learned writing, arith- 
metic, and geography, while the females have been 
taught to sew. The missions arc still under the care 
of the Wesleyan Missionary Society, which in 1868 
had in the islands 5 circuits, 178 chapels, 2 other 
preaching-places, 19 missionaries and assistant mis- 
sionaries, 1686 subordinate paid and unpaid agents, 
8613 members, 795 on trial for membership, 6617 schol- 
ars in schools, and 23,484 attendants on public wor- 
ship. See Newcomb, Cyclopaedia of Missions, p. 714; 
Walter Lawry, Missions in Tonga and Feejee ; Wesley- 
an Almanac for 1869. (A. J. S.) 

Friends, Society of. This body of Christians 
now subsists in two main divisions, generally known 
to the public as the Orthodox and the Ilicksite; but 
these designations are not used by the bodies them- 
selves. The former body is designated below as No. 
1, and the article is written by William J. Allinson, 
editor of The Friends' Revieio ; the latter body is desig- 
nated as No. 2, and the article is written by Samuel M. 
Janney, of Lincoln, Loudon County, Va. 

FRIENDS (No. 1). The organization of the Friends 
as a distinct society or church was not the result of 
any deliberate design to form a sect, but must be re- 
garded as a providential ordering, and as a necessity 
growing from the degeneracy, corruptions, and world- 
liness which permeated the churches in the early part 
of the 17th century. They did not profess to establish 
a new religion, or claim to have discovered any new 
truth. Their object was the revival of primitive 
Christianity, which had been maintained through the 
centuries of the Christian ajra by successive testimony- 
bearers, many of whom had scaled the truth with their 


FRIENDS 


GGS 


FRIENDS 


blood, and been counted unto the Lord for a genera- 
tion. Especially they were led to call the attention 
of the people to the Holy Spirit as the living and infal- 
lible guide, as a precious and glorious reality, essential 
to the Christian life, and sufficient to lead into true 
holiness. They never held the doctrine of the Spirit 
as a mere theory, or ignored the great truth that this 
unspeakable gift proceeded from the adorable Giver, 
and was consequent upon the death and vicarious sac- 
rifice of him who for our sakes laid down his life upon 
Calvary. They always regarded the close connection 
of cause and effect as described in our Lord’s words : 

1 tell you the truth ; it is expedient for you that I go 
away ; for if 1 go not away, the Comforter will not come 
unto you ; but if I depart I will send him nnto you” 
(John xvi, 7). This truth George Fox began to teach 
and preach, not as an invention of his own, but as a 
priceless jewel thrown aside and hidden under the rub- 
bish of dogmas and forms. The Divine Spirit asserted 
himself almost simultaneously in the hearts of many 
contemporaries, who were ready to respond to the 
preaching of Fox : “It is the very truth.” Had the 
clergy and other professors of that day opened their 
hearts to the spirituality of the Christian religion, and 
yielded themselves to the Spirit’s guidance, the Church 
would have been reformed, and Fox would have been 
satisfied. The religious awakening of this period was 
well described by the pen of Milton : “ Thou hast sent 
out the spirit of prayer upon thy servants over all the 
land to this effect, and stirred up their vows as the 
sound of many waters about thy throne. Every one 
can say that now certainly thou hast visited this land, 
and hast not forgotten the uttermost corners of the 
earth, in a time when men thought that thou wast 
gone up from us to the farthest end of the heavens, 
and hadst left to do marvellously among the sons of 
these last ages.” Christ the object of faith, the Spirit 
the transforming power, was the doctrine of the first 
Friends, as it lias ever been that of their true succes- 
sors. The divinity of our Lord was not called in ques- 
tion by the teachers of that day, whilst the guidance 
of I lis Spirit, the light of Christ in the conscience, was 
denied or ignored ; and hence the prominence given to 
the latter truth, and the comparative silence respecting 
the other, in the controversial writings of the early 
Friends. George Fox, the founder of the Society of 
Friends, was born in 1G24, and in 1G47, after much 
deep experience of the blessedness of the Comforter, 
“even the Spirit of Truth which proceedetli from the 
Father,” he went forth through England, on foot and 
at his own charges, freely preaching to the people the 
unsearchable riches which Christ had purchased for 
them, and was ready to give liberally to all who would 
ask for it, coming unto God by him. To the spiritual 
standard thus raised many flocked — ministers of vari- 
ous churches, sin-sick members of their flocks who 
had wandered unsatisfied upon “ barren mountains 
and desolate hills,” magistrates, rich men and poor, 
and “honorable women not a few.” Eight years 
from the date last given, ministers of the new society 
preached the Gospel in various parts of Europe, in Asia, 
and Africa, and bore, with heroic endurance, persecu- 
tions, imprisonment, and the tortures of the Inquisition 
in Home, Malta, Austria, Hungary, etc. An authentic 
history of their sufferings was collected by Joseph 
Hesse, and published, London, 1750, in two large folios. 
The systematic interference by the state in matters of 
religion and conscience, which was the policy of Eng- 
land through all the political overturning!*, caused 
shameless oppressions and wrongs to be perpetrated 
upon this peaceable and God-fearing people, three 
thousand four hundred of them at one time being in- 
carcerated in filthy and unwholesome prisons, where 
many of them died martyrs to the truth. No one 
seemed to think of purchasing- exemption from perse- 
cution by yielding, even in appearance, a point of prin- 
ciple. 


u No— nursed in storm and peril long, 

The weakest of their band was strong;” 

and, whilst men and women were perishing in jails, 
even the little boys and girls would meet together at 
the places appointed, and in the beauty and sweetness 
of early piety worship the God of their fathers in spirit 
and in truth. But not even childhood was sacred from 
religious intolerance and official interference. These 
babes in Christ (as truly they might be called) were 
disturbed at their worship, savagely threatened, and 
sometimes cruelly beaten. 

The early history of Friends is closely connected 
with that of George Fox, and necessarily included in 
the various biographies of that remarkable man. He 
commenced his career as a seeker after the truth, and 
meeting, in Europe and America, with many whose 
yearnings were similar, they were called Seekers. The 
epithet of Quakers was given in derision, because they 
often trembled under an awful sense of the infinite 
purity and majesty of God, and this name, rather sub- 
mitted to than accepted b}’ them, has become general 
as a designation. “ To this man wfill I look,” said the 
Holy Spirit by Isaiah, “even to him that is poor and 
of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word” To 
tremble, then, at the presence of the God of the w hole 
earth, and especially when speaking in his name, is not 
to be regarded as any reproach ; but their name, as a 
body, is “ The Iieliyious Society of Friends .” The spread 
of the society in North America w r as rapid, especially 
after the founding of Pennsylvania in 1680 by Wil- 
liam Penn, w hose career as a wise legislator is promi- 
nent in history, and who, as a Christian philanthropist, 
a statesman, a writer, and a minister of the Gospel of 
Christ, established a reputation which even the vindic- 
tive attacks of Macaulay could not undermine. As 
early as 1G72 George Fox found an established settle- 
ment of Friends in Perquimans County, N. C., which 
proved the germ of an independent diocese, or Yearly 
Meeting, w'hose members from that time have been ex- 
emplary upholders, at the cost of persecution and much 
loss of substance, of the principles of civil and religious 
liberty, steadily testifying against slavery and war, 
and maintaining the frcencss of the Gospel. During 
the War of the Kebellion their heroic firmness in refus- 
ing to bear arms was proof against cruel tyranny, so 
that some of these simple testimony- bearers, who 
“loved not their lives unto the death,” by meek yet 
brave endurance of tortures and privations have made 
their names historic. It is noteworthy that in North 
Carolina, within a very few’ years (during and since 
the Rebellion), about seven hundred persons joined the 
society from convincement. The membership of that 
Yearly Meeting, although many times thinned by em- 
igration to free states, is now about three thousand 
souls. The persecution of Friends in New England 
w r as so sanguinary that 

u Old Newbury, had her fields a tongue, 

And Salem’s streets, could tell their story 
Of fainting woman dragged along, 

Gashed by the whip accursed, and gory;” 

and four Friends actually suffered martyrdom — a Qua- 
ker woman of remarkable refinement and piety, and 
three men of equal w’orth, being hanged on Boston 
Common. The number of victims was likely to be 
increased, when proceedings w'ere checked by a royal 
mandamus. 

The membership of the society becoming very wide- 
ly extended, a formal organization by a system of 
Church government became necessary, and George 
Fox evinced much sagacity, mental soundness, and 
spiritual guidance in successful efforts to establish 
rules for the government of the Church, and meetings 
for discipline in a harmonious chain of subordination, 
the highest and filial authority being a Yearly Meet- 
ing. The Yearly Meetings are, in a sense, diocesan, 
having each a defined territorial jurisdiction, and in- 
dependent of each other in their government and law- 


FRIENDS 


669 


FRIENDS 


making powers, whilst by a sort of common law there 
are principles of discipline sacred to all, and member- 
ship in any meeting involves a connection with the 
society wherever existing, and may be transferred by 
certificate when the person claiming such credential is 
not liable to Church censure. 

The transaction of the business of these meetings is 
regarded as the Lord's work; and as lie declared 
“where two or three are gathered in my name, there 
AM I in the midst of them,” they regard his immediate 
presence with his Church as the foundation of its au- 
thority. Hence, in these meetings, and in those espe- 
cially for worship, it is held to be necessary for all 
minds to be turned to him who is present by his Spirit, 
and whose anointing teacheth all tilings, and alone 
can enable his people to serve him according to the 
counsel of his will. 

In the ministry of the Word, no Friend who is true 
to the principles of the society will speak without feel- 
ing a direct call and movement of the lloly Spirit for 
the service. Under this influence, the Gospel ministry 
is regarded as very precious, and a blessing to be guard- 
ed and cherished. Elders are appointed, who arc be- 
lieved to be prudent persons, gifted with a discerning 
spirit, and it is their duty to counsel, foster, and aid 
the ministers, and either to encourage or restrain the 
vocal offerings of those who attempt to speak in this 
capacity, according as they are or are not believed to 
be called of God to the work. 

No system of theological training is known or could 
be permitted among the Friends. They are favorable 
to education, and provide for its free extension to the 
children of poor members ; but they regard it as the 
exclusive province of the Holy Spirit to select his own 
ministers, and to instruct them what they shall say. 
It is, however, considered the duty of all, and especial- 
ly of those who stand as ambassadors for Christ, to be 
diligent and prayerful in the perusal of the Holy Scrip- 
tures, through which the man of God, led as he will 
assuredly be by the Spirit which gave them forth, will 
be “ thoroughly furnished unto all good works.” So 
great is the stress which Friends place upon the peru- 
sal of the Scriptures, and upon the bringing up of their 
children and others under their care in this practice, 
that it is made a matter of semi-annual investigation 
in all their meetings, and so long ago as 1754 London 
Yearly Meeting enacted a rule of discipline that the 
families of poor Friends should be provided with Bibles 
— a gratuitous Scripture distribution which was in ad- 
vance of any Bible Society. 

The privilege and duty of prayer, both secretly and 
vocally, under a reverent and filial sense of the char- 
acter of the engagement, are regarded as of the very 
highest importance. It is believed that “men ought 
always to pray,” but a jealousy is felt lest any should 
in a light and flippant way rush into this exercise. 
He who knoweth what we have need of before we ask 
him, will, if reverently waited upon, extend his kingly 
sceptre and put into the heart the prayer of faith ; and 
before any one shall pray vocally in their meetings, as 
mouthpiece for the people, it is requisite that a direct 
movement of the lloly Spirit should prompt the ofter- 
ing, lest the words of rebuke be applicable: “ Ye ask 
and receive not, because ye ask amiss.” The follow- 
ing clause in the London Discipline expresses the creed 
of the society respecting this part of the service of Al- 
mighty God : 

“As prayer and thanksgiving are an important part 
of worship, may they be offered in spirit and in truth, 
with a right understanding seasoned with grace. When 
engaged herein, let ministers avoid many words and 
repetitions, and be cautious of too often repeating the 
high and holy name of God or his attributes ; neither 
let prayer be in a formal or customary way, nor with- 
out a reverent sense of divine influence.” 

The meetings of the society are characterized by 
practical recognition of the presidency and headship 


of Christ in the Church, and a conviction that every 
movement of the body should be dictated by its Head. 

The Society of Friends is not at issue with other or- 
thodox churches on the general points of Christian 
doctrine. Avoiding the use of the word Trinity, they 
reverently believe in the Holy Three : the Father, the 
Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten of the Father, by 
whom are all things, who is the mediator between God 
and man, and in the Holy Spirit, who proceedeth from 
the Father and Son — One God, blessed forever. They 
accept in its fullness the testimony of hoh r Scripture 
with regard to the nature and offices of Christ, as the 
promised Messiah, the Word made flesh, the atonement 
for sin, the Saviour and Redeemer of the world. They 
have no reliance upon any other name, no hope of sal- 
vation that is not based upon his meritorious death on 
the cross. The charge that they deny Christ to be God 
William Penn denounced as “most untrue and unchar- 
itable,” saying, “ We truly and expressly own him to 
be so, according to the Scripture.” As fully do they 
admit his humanity, and that he was truly man, “sin 
only excepted.” They so fully believe in the Holy 
Spirit of Christ, that without the inward revelation 
thereof they feel that they can do nothing to God’s 
glory, or to further the salvation of their own souls. 
Without the influence thereof they know not how to 
approach the Father through the Son, nor what to 
pray for as they ought. Their whole code of belief 
calls for the entire surrender of the natural will to the 
guidance of the pure, unerring Spirit, “through whose 
renewed assistance,” says one of their writers, “they 
are enabled to bring forth fruits nnto holiness, and to 
stand perfect in their present rank.” As it was the 
design of Christ, in going to the Father, to send as a 
comforter his Spirit to his disciples, so it is with his 
Spirit that he baptized and doth baptize them, it being 
impossible, in the estimation of the Friends, that an 
outward ablution should wash from the spirit of man 
the stains of sin. Hence they attach importance only 
to “the baptism which now saveth,”and which John 
the Baptist predicted should be administered by Christ. 
And it is by his Spirit, also, that his followers are ena- 
bled to partake of the true supper of the Lord : “ Be- 
hold, I stand at the door and knock : if any man hear 
my voice and open unto me, I will come in and sup 
with him, and he shall sup with me.” Thus they hold 
that the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ in the flesh 
was the grand epoch and central fact of time, and that 
types, and shadows, and all ceremonial observances, 
which had their place before as shadows of good 
things to come, now that they have been fulfilled in 
him, are only shadows of those shadows. The type 
properly precedes the reality, and truly this was wor- 
thy of being foreshadowed; “ but,’’ says Paul (1 Cor. 
xiii, 10), “when that which is perfect is come, then 
that which is in part shall be done away.” 

Their view respecting the resurrection may be brief- 
ly stated in the language of one of the society’s docu- 
ments: “The Society of Friends believes that there 
will be a resurrection both of the righteous and the 
wicked ; the one to eternal life and blessedness, and 
the other to everlasting misery and torment, agreea- 
bly to Matt, xxv, 81-40; John v, 25-30 ; 1 Cor. xv, 
12-58. That God will judge the world by that man 
whom he hath ordained, even Christ Jesus the Lord, 
who will render unto every man according to his 
works; to them who by patient continuing in well-do- 
ing during this life seek for glory and honor, immor- 
tality and eternal life ; but unto the contentions and 
disobedient, who obey not the truth, but obey unright- 
eousness, indignation and wrath, tribulation and an- 
guish upon every soul of man that sinneth, for God is 
no respecter of persons” (Thomas Evans). 

They have ever regarded war as inconsistent with 
Christianity. For this they refer to the teachings of 
Christ and his apostles, the example of the early Chris- 
tians, and to the witness for truth in their own con- 


FRIENDS 


CTO 


FRIENDS 


sciences, tested and confirmed by the sacred writings, j 
They find that all the emotions which are exercised in 
wars and fightings are traced to evil lusts, and are in- 
consistent w ith that love which is the substance of the 
first, the second, and the new commandment, which 
“ worketh no ill to his neighbor,” and on which “ hang 
all the law and the prophets.” 

They consider oaths to be inadmissible, as being 
positively forbidden by our Lord in language not to 
be mistaken, and this testimony was made the occa- 1 
sion of inflicting severe penalties upon the first Friends. 
When their persecutors failed to convict them upon j 
false charges, it was customary to administer the test- 
oaths to them, on refusing to take which they were 
thrown into prison. They decline to employ the 
complimentary and false language of the world, and 
to apply to the months and days the names given in 
honor of pagan gods, preferring the numerical nomen- 
clature adopted in the Scriptures. In dress they aim 
at plainness and simplicity, avoiding the tyranny of 
an ever-changing fashion. As a natural result, a de- 
gree of uniformity of dress prevails among them, bear- 
ing much resemblance to the style in vogue at the rise 
of the society. This approach to uniformity, which at 
first was unintentional, came to be cherished as a hedge 
of defence against worldly and ensnaring associations, 
and a means by which they recognised each other. 
The principle at stake is not in the fashion of a garb, 
but in simplicity and the avoidance of changes of fash- 
ion. Were the customary patterns all abandoned to- 
day, and the principle of simplicity still consistently 
adhered to, the kaleidoscope of fashion would make 
frequent changes in the people around them, and 
Friends would soon be left as peculiar in their appear- 
ance as at present. 

Whilst Friends, as good citizen*, have cheerfully 
paid all legal assessments for the support of public 
schools and of the poor, and have contributed abun- 
dantly to the various charities and general claims of 
benevolence, they have always been characterized by 
their scrupulous care in relieving their own poor, so 
that none of their members come upon the public for 
maintenance or for gratuitous education. 

A dangerous tendency to “hold the truth in parts” 
led a portion of the society, in the early part of the 
present century, into the error of insisting too singly 
upon the precious doctrine of Christ within the hope 
of glory, and of denying, or at best holding lightly, a 
belief in his true divinity whilst incarnate, and in the 
atoning, cleansing, saving efficacy of his blood which 
was shed for us. Thus Socinianism gained a footing 
in the society, to the grief of those who held the an- 
cient faith, and in 1827 an extensive and much-to-be- 
regretted secession occurred, in which doctrinal and 
personal considerations were mingled; and, in the ex- 
citement of the division, it is believed that many failed 
to comprehend the true issues, and that not a few who 
were essentially one in faith were dissevered for life as 
regards church fellowship. Tims two entirely distinct 
societies now exist, each claiming exclusive right to 
the same name, and causing confusion among other 
professors as to their identity. In this secession por- 
tions of six out of ten Yearly Meetings then existing 
joined with the body popularly designated by the 
name of their leader (though they have never acknowl- 
edged the title). In Great Britain and Ireland, and in 
two of the. American Yearly Meetings then existing, 
no schism occurred. 

There are twelve independent Yearly Meetings of 
the Religious Society of Friends. The oldest of these 
is that of London, the records of which are preserved 
from the year 1672. This body is regarded by the 
others with respectful affection as the mother of Year- 
ly Meetings, and its General Epistle of Christian Coun- 
sel, which is issued annually, -is gladly received, repub- 
lished, and circulated In- nearly all the co-ordinate 


whilst there is an attendance of its meetings by non- 
members of 3G58. There are settlements of Friends 
in France, Germany, Norway, and in several parts of 
Australasia, which all make annual reports to London 
Yearly Meeting, and acknowledge subordination to it. 
Friends in England are a highly influential body in 
proportion to their number. There is a Yearly Meet- 
ing in Ireland, one. in Canada, and nine in the United 
States, viz., the Yearly Meetings of New England, 
New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, North Carolina, 
Ohio, Indiana, Western Indiana, and Towa. The in- 
crease of membership in the Western States has been 
rapid of late years, and settlements of Friends are 
starting up in Kansas, Missouri, etc. The member- 
ship of the society may be rated at 80,000. 

In all these Yearly Meetings, First-day Schools are 
conducted with zeal and efficiency, exerting a wide 
evangelical influence. In a number of the Yearly 
Meetings these are under the direct care of the so- 
ciety, and made the subjects of annual statistical re- 
ports. Thus, in Indiana Yearly Meeting, there are 115 
such schools, with 710 teachers, and 0953 pupils, of 
whom 2307 are over twenty-one years of age. In the 
Yearly Meeting of Western Indiana there are 63 First- 
day Schools, with 6170 pupils, and 411 teachers. North 
Carolina Yearly Meeting has taken the lead in the es- 
tablishment of a Normal First-day School, the benefit 
of which has been very decided. 

There are in England and Ireland several educa- 
tional institutions of merit under care of the society. 
In tin’s country Friends have three colleges, viz., 
Haverfvrd College, Pennsylvania ; Earl ham College , 
Pichmond, Ind. ; and Whittier College , Salem, Iowa. 
There are also large boarding-schools under the care 
of different Yearly Meetings, the most noted of which 
are those of West Town , I*a., Providence , R. I., Union 
Springs , N. Y., and New Garden , N. C. (W. J. A.) 

FRIENDS (No. 2). — 1. History . — The origin of the 
Religious Society of Friends dates from about the mid- 
dle of the 17th century. George Fox, the chief in- 
strument in the divine hand by whom it was gather- 
ed, was born in Leicestershire, England, in the year 
1624. His parents were pious members of the Na- 
tional Church, and from his childhood lie was relig- 
iously inclined. When about nineteen years old he 
was led by a sense of duty to seek retirement from the 
world, and he spent much time in reading the holy 
Scriptures, with meditation and prayer. In the year 
1647 he began to appear as a preacher of the Gospel, 
and he found many prepared to receive his message of 
love, calling them away from a reliance upon all rites 
and ceremonies to the word of divine grace, or Spirit 
of Christ, as the efficient cause of salvation. Converts 
in large numbers were soon gathered, who met togeth- 
er for divine worship, waiting upon God in silence, or 
engaging in preaching, prayer, or praise, as they be- 
lieved themselves prompted by the Spirit of Christ, 
their ever-present teacher. The persecutions endured 
by the early Friends, both in Europe and America, 
were exceedingly severe, and were chiefly on account 
of their absenting themselves from the Established 
Church, refusing to pay tithes, openly attending their 
own religions meetings when prohibited by law, and 
declining to take oatbs of any kind, or to engage in 
military service. “ Between the years 1650 and 1G89, 
about fourteen thousand of this people suffered by fine 
and imprisonment, of which number more than three 
hundred died in jail, not to mention cruel mockings, 
buffeting*, seourgings, and afflictions innumerable.” 

It has been estimated that, at the death of George 
Fox in the year 1690, the number of Friends in Europe 
I .and America was about 75,000, and that 10,000 of these 
| inhabited the British colonies. They afterwards de- 
clined in the mother country, and greatly increased in 
| America, where they became most numerous in Penn- 
sylvania, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and North Caro- 


bodies. The number of members in England is 13,815, | lina. 


FRIENDS 


671 


FRIENDS 


In the year 1827 a schism took place in Philadelphia 
Yearly Meeting, which afterwards extended to most of 
the other Yearly Meetings in. America. The space al- 
lotted for this article will not suffice to give an intelli- 
gible account of it (see Janney’s Hist, of Friends, vol. 
iv. The part relating to the separation has been re- 
published in a small volume by T. Ellwood Zell, Phil- 
adelphia). At the time of the separation, those who 
took the name of Orthodox Friends were in the West- 
ern States the more numerous ; but in the Atlantic 
sea-board States they were less numerous than those 
who are hy some called Hicksites, but who persistently 
refuse to acknowledge any other name than that of 
Friends or Quakers. It is of this branch only that we 
now treat. 

II. Doctrines . — We hold the doctrines of the early 
Friends, as expounded in the writings of Fox, Penn, 
Pennington, and Barclay. A committee which repre- 
sents Philadelphia Yearly Meeting has recently so far 
approved of a “Summary of Christian Doctrines,” 
from which the following abstract is taken, as to order 
its purchase for distribution : 

The Scriptures . — The Religious Society of Friends, 
from its rise to the present day, has always maintain- 
ed its belief in the authenticity and divine authority 
of the holy Scriptures, referring to them for proof of 
its principles, and acknowledging them to be the only 
fit ontward test of Christian doctrines. M r e do not 
call them the Word of Cod, because this appellation is 
applied by the writers of the Scriptures to that Eternal 
Power by which the worlds were made; for “In the 
beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, 
and the Word was God.” 

We assign to the Scriptures all the authority they 
claim for themselves, which is chiefly expressed in the 
following texts: “Whatsoever things were written 
aforetime were written for our learning, that wc, 
through patience and comfort of the Scriptures, might 
have hope” (Rom. xv, 4). “The holy Scriptures are 
able to make wise unto salvation, through faith which 
is in Christ Jesus” (2 Tim. iii, 15-17). “All Scrip- 
ture given by inspiration of God is profitable for doc- 
trine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in 
righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, 
thoroughly furnished unto all good works” (Barclay’s 
Apology , prop, iii, § 5). 

In the advices issued by our several Yearly Meet- 
ings, the Scriptures are very frequently and earnestly 
recommended to the attention of our members. In 
the year 1851, Philadelphia Yearly Meeting, after re- 
ferring to “those sublime truths which are recorded in 
the holy Scriptures,” thus continues: “ In these inval- 
uable writings we find the only authentic record of the 
early history of our race, the purest strains of devo- 
tional poetry, and the sublime discourses of the Son of 
God. Their frequent perusal was therefore especially 
urged upon our younger members, who were encour- 
aged to seek for the guidance of divine grace, by 
which alone we realize in our experience the saving 
truths they contain.” 

In the year 1863, the following minute of Baltimore 
Yearly Meeting was sent down to its subordinate 
meetings, viz. : “ We have been reminded that this 
Year!}' Meeting has at various times issued advices 
to its members inciting them to the frequent reading 
of the holy Scriptures, the authenticity of which has 
always been acknowledged by the Society of Friends. 
We believe it is not the part of true wisdom to dwell 
upon defects, whether real or imaginary, in the sacred 
records, but rather to use them as they were intended, 
‘for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteous- 
ness,’ remem hcring that it is only through the opera- 
tion of the Spirit of Truth upon our hearts that they 
can be made availing to ns in the promotion of our sal- 
vation.” 

The following extract is taken from the Rules of 
Discipline of the Yearly Meeting of Friends held in 


Philadelphia: “If any in membership with us shall 
blaspheme, or speak profanely of Almighty God, Christ 
Jesus, or the Holy Spirit, he or she ought early to be 
tenderly treated with for their instruction, and the 
convincement of their understanding, that they may 
experience repentance and forgiveness ; but should 
any, notwithstanding this brotherly labor, persist in 
their error, or deny the divinity of our Lord and Sav- 
iour Jesus Christ, the immediate revelation of the Holy 
; Spirit, or the authenticity of the Scriptures ; as it is 
manifest they arc not one in faith with us, the month- 
ly meeting where the party belongs, having extended 
due care for the help and benefit of the individual with- 
out effect, ought to declare the same, and issue their 
tc s t i mon y ac cord i n gl y . ” 

Immediate Revelation. — The highest privilege grant- 
ed to mail is that of entering into communion with the 
Author of his being. “ Ye are the temples of the liv- 
ing God,” writes the apostle Paul ; “ as God hath said, 
I will dwell in them, and walk in them, and I will be 
their God, and they shall be my people” (2 Cor. vi, 16). 
“ The anointing which ye have received of him,” says 
the beloved disciple, “abideth in you, and ye need not 
that any man teach you ; but as the same anointing 
teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, 
and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him” 
(1 John ii, 27). 

In the ordering of divine Providence, instrumental 
means are often employed to convey religious truth, 
such as the reading of the Scriptures, the preaching of 
the Gospel, and the vicissitudes of life; but in all cases 
the good effected is from the immediate operations of 
divine grace upon the heart or conscience. In fact, 
there can be no saving knowledge of Christ but from 
immediate revelation. “.No man can come to me,” 
said Jesus, “except the Father which hath sent me 
draw him.” This drawing of the Father is the opera- 
tion of his Spirit, for “ the manifestation of the Spirit 
is given to cveiy man to profit withal” (1 Cor. xii, 7). 
To the wicked he comes as a reprover for sin, a “ spirit 
of judgment and a spirit of burning,” hut to the pray- 
erful and obedient as a comforter in righteousness. 

The Oiigiml and Present State of Man. — It is a 
scriptural doctrine that neither righteousness nor un- 
righteousness can be transmitted bv inheritance, but 
every man shall be judged according to his deeds. 
The language of the prophet Ezekiel is very clear on 
this point. “ As I live, saith the Lord God, ye shall not 
have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.” 

. . “ The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the chil- 
dren’s teeth are set on edge.” . . . “ Behold, all souls 
are mine ; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of 
the son is mine : the soul that sinneth, it shall die.” . . 
“The son shall not hear the iniquity of the father, neither 
shall the father bear the iniquity of the son : the right- 
eousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the 
wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him” (Ezek. 
xviii, 2-25). 

Man was created in the image of God ; he was pure, 
benevolent, and blissful, and he enjoyed the privilege 
of communion with God, that is, to partake of “ the 
tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of 
God” (Rev. ii, 7). But, although he was made a free 
agent, he was not to be so independent of God as to 
know of himself good or evil without divine direction. 
And when he presumed to set up his own will, and to 
be governed by it in opposition to the divine will, ho 
assumed the place of God, and having thus turned away 
from the Holy Spirit, he ceased to partake of “the tree 
of life,” and consequent ! y died a spiritual death. It 
was then he experienced the fulfilment of the divine 
prediction, “ In the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt 
surely die for “to be carnally minded is death, but 
to be spiritually minded is life and peace.” 

Animal propensities may be transmitted from pa- 
rents to children, but the Scriptures do not teach that 
we inherit any guilt from Adam, or from any of our 


FRIENDS 


672 


FRIENDS 


ancestors ; nor do we feel any compunction for their 1 
sins. The language of oitr Saviour clearly implies j 
that little children are innocent, for “of such,” he 
says, “is the kingdom of heaven.” 

The Divine Being. — The unity, omnipresence, om- • 
nipotence, and omniscience of God, the only fountain 
of wisdom and goodness, arc fully set forth in the 
Scriptures of both the Old and the New Testament, 
lie declares bv the mouth of his prophet, “ Thus saith 
the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, his Maker.” ... “I, 
even 1, am the Lord, and besides me there is no Sav- I 
iour.” . . . “ Thus saith the Lord, your Redeemer, the 
Holy One of Israel” (Isa. xliii, 11, 14). These dec- 
larations are reiterated and confirmed in the New J 
Testament. “Jesus answered, The first of all the 
commandments is , 1 Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God 
is one Lord,’ ” etc. (Mark xii, 20). 

That spiritual influence or medium by which the 
Most High communicates his will to man is called his 
Word, and the same term is applied to his creative 
power, by which all things were made. The unity of 
the Eternal Word, or Logos, with God, may be illus- 
trated by the light which emanates from the sun ; for | 
“ God is light,” and of Christ it is said, “ In him was 
life, and the life was the light of men.” The connec- 
tion between the great luminary of the solar system ' 
and the light proceeding from him is so perfect that 
we apply the term Sun to them both. So, in relation to 
the Eternal Word, which was in the beginning with 
God, and was God, it is a manifestation of his wisdom 
and power, being called in the Old Testament “The 
angel of his presence” (Isa. lxiii, 9), “The Redeemer | 
of his people;” and in the New Testament, “The Son I 
of God, by whom also he made the worlds” (Ileb. i, 2). ' 
The term Christ was also applied by the apostles to j 
the Spirit of God as manifested in men. For instance, | 
Paul writes of the children of Israel under Moses, 

“ They did all eat the same spiritual meat, and they 
did all drink the same spiritual drink; for they drank 
of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that 
rock was Christ” (1 Cor. x, 4). Peter says that the 
prophets “prophesied of the grace that should come 
unto you, searching what, or what manner of time 
the Spirit of Christ whieh was in them did signify, 
when it testified beforehand of the sufferings of Christ 
and the glory that should follow” (1 Pet. i, 11). 

The most full and glorious manifestation of the di- 
vine Word, or Logos, was in Jesus Christ, the immacu- 
late Son of God, who was miraculously conceived and 
born of a virgin. In him the manhood or son of man 
was entirely subject to the divinity. The Word took 
flesh, or was manifested in the flesh. “ lie took not 
on him the nature of angels, but he took on him the 
seed of Abraham.” . . . “Of whom, as concerning 
the flesh, Christ came, who is over all, God, blessed 
forever.” Being “in all points tempted like as we 
are, yet without sin,” he was an example to all suc- 
ceeding generations, “a man approved of God by 
miracles, wonders, and signs which God did by him.” 
The intimate union between Christ and his Church is 
illustrated in the epistles of Peter and Paul by two 
similitudes: that of a body having many members, of 
which Jesus Christ is the head; and that of a temple, 
of which he is the chief corner-stone. The holy man- 
hood of Christ, that is, the soul of him in whom the 
Holy Spirit dwelt without measure, is now, and al- 
ways will be, the head, or chief member of that spirit- 
ual body which is made up of the faithful servants of 
God of all ages and nations. 

“There is one God, and one Mediator between God 
and men, the man Christ Jesus” (1 Tim. ii, 5). As 
Moses was a mediator to ordain the legal dispensation, 
so Jesus Christ was and is the Mediator of the new 
covenant; first, to proclaim and exemplify it in the 
day of his outward advent ;jsind, secondly, through 
all time, in the ministration of his Spirit. 

“ The Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with 


groanings which cannot be uttered. And he that 
seareheth the hearts knowetli what is the mind of the 
Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints 
according to the will of God” (Rom. viii, 26). 

When the apostles went forth preaching Christ and 
his spiritual kingdom, they attributed to his name or 
power their wonderful success. Acts ii, S2, 33; iv, 
10, 11, 12: “This is the stone,” said Peter to the 
rulers, “ which was set at naught of you builders, 
whieh is become the head of the corner. Neither is 
there salvation in any other; for there is none other 
name under heaven given among men whereby we 
must be saved.” 

Salvation hg Christ . — The great work of the Messiah 
for the salvation of men is beautifully port rayed in the 
passage whieh he read from Isaiah in the synagogue at 
Nazareth. “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, be- 
cause he hath anointed me to preach the Gospel to the 
poor ; he hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted, to 
preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of 
sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are 
bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord” 
(Luke iv, 18, 19). He came to establish a spiritual king- 
dom of truth and love in the hearts of mankind, and 
thereby to put an end to the kingdom of evil. A work 
of reformation was then begun which has not ceased 
to this day, though often obstructed and retarded. 
Then was laid the foundation on which succeeding 
generations have built, and no moral reform of any 
value or permanene} r can take place unless it be 
founded on Christian principles. 

Another propheey of Isaiah is referred to by the 
evangelist Matthew as having been fulfilled by the 
miracles of Christ. He says, “When the even was 
come they brought unto him many that were possess- 
ed with devils, and lie east out the spirits with his 
word, and healed all that were sick; that it might be 
fulfilled whieh was spoken by Esaias the prophet, say- 
ing, Himself took our infirmities and bare our sick- 
nesses” (Matt, viii, 16). As in the outward relation 
he took away the infirmities of the people and healed 
their sicknesses, so in the inward and spiritual relation 
he heals the maladies of the soul, and raises it from 
death in sin to a life of righteousness. 

The great object of the Messiah’s advent is thus 
declared bj 1 - himself: “To this end was I born, and for 
this cause came 1 into the world, that I should bear 
witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth 
heareth my voice” (John xviii, 37). lie could not 
bear witness to the truth among that corrupt and per- 
verse people without suffering for it. He foresaw 
that they would put him to death, and lie went forward 
calnity- doing his Father’s will, leading a life of self- 
sacrifice, wounded for the transgressions of the people, 
baptized spiritually in suffering for them, and finally 
enduring on the cross the agonies of a lingering death, 
thus sealing his testimony with his blood. Jlis obedi- 
ence in drinking the cup of suffering was acceptable to 
God, for “he hath loved us and hath given himself for 
us, an offering and a sacrifice to God, for a sweet- 
smelling savor” (Eph. v, 2). 

It was to reconcile man to God by removing the en- 
mity from (man’s) his heart that Jesus Christ lived, 
and taught, and suffered, and for this purpose the 
Spirit of Christ is still manifested as a Redeemer from 
the bondage of corruption, lienee the apostle says, 
“God was in Christ reconciling the world unto him- 
self, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath 
committed unto us the word of reconciliation.” . . . 
“We pray you, in Christ’s stead, be ye reconciled to 
God” (2 Cor. v, 19, 20). It is in man that the change 
must be wrought and the reconciliation effected, for 
there can be no. change in Deity. 

“If, when we were enemies,” says Paul, “we were 
reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, 
being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life'" (Rom. v, 
10); for “in him was life, and the life was the light 


FRIENDS 


C 

of men” (John i, 4). It is the life of God, or spirit of 
truth revealed in the soul, which purities and saves 
from sin. This life is sometimes spoken of as the 
blood; for, according to the Mosaic law, “the blood is 
the life.” And when Jesus told the people, “ Except 
ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, 
ye have no life in you,” he alluded to tiie life and pow- 
er of God which dwelt in him, and spake through him. 
In explanation of this, he said to his disciples, “ It is 
the Spirit that quickeneth ; the flesh profiteth nothing: 
the words that I speak unto you, they arc spirit and 
they are life.” 

It is obvious that the sinner cannot come into a 
state of concord with God until the sinful nature is re- 
moved, and that nothing can remove it but the bap- 
tism of the Holy Spirit. The dealings of the Most 
High with the children of men are beautifully exem- 
plilied in the parable of the prodigal son, who had wan- 
dered far from his father’s house, and spent his sub- 
stance in riotous living. When he came to himself, 
and determined to go back, confessing his sins, and of- 
fering to become as one of the hired servants, his father 
did not stand off and order him to be punished-, neither 
did he lay his punishment upon the other son who had 
been faithful ; but his compassion was awakened by his 
penitence and the sufferings he had brought upon him- 
self, and “while he was yet a great way off he ran and 
fell on his neck, and kissed him.” The conduct of the 
parent, as represented in this parable, answers exactly 
to the divine character, and corresponds entirely with 
the character of Jesus Christ, who was filled with the 
divine perfections. But the doctrine that God cannot, 
or will not forgive sins without a compensation or sat- 
isfaction, and that man, not being able to make this 
satisfaction, it was made by Jcsns Christ, who was ap- 
pointed or given up to be killed for this purpose , is so 
inconsistent with the divine character, that it cannot 
be reconciled with the teachings of the Son of God. 
It appears to deprive the Deity of that infinite love 
which is his most endearing attribute; and if a human 
parent were to act upon the same principle towards his 
children, we could not justify his conduct. 

When the sinful nature in man is slain by the power 
of God being raised into dominion in us , then is divine 
justice satisfied, for there is nothing vindictive in the 
character of the Deity. He does not afflict his crea- 
tures for any other purpose than their own reforma- 
tion or puriiication, and, when that purpose is accom- 
plished, he is ready to pardon his repenting children. 
The only sure ground of acceptance is the new birth ; 
for, when Christ’s kingdom is established within us, 
then his righteousness becomes ours ; not by imputa- 
tion, but by our becoming really “partakers of the di- 
vine nature” (2 Pet. i, 4). “Not by works of right- 
eousness which we have done, but according to his 
mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration 
and renewing of the Holy Ghost, which he shed on us 
abundantly, through Jesus Christ our Saviour” (Titus 
iii, 5). 

Baptism and the Lord's Supper. — Friends believe 
that the “washing of regeneration and renewing of 
the Holy Ghost” is the only baptism essential to sal- 
vation. “ There is one Lord, one faith, one baptism , 
one God and Father of all, who is above all, through 
all, and in you all” (Eph. iv, 5, G). The baptism of 
Christ is inward and spiritual, as may be shown by the 
following texts: Matt, iii, 11, 12; Acts i, 5; xviii, 25, 
2G ; 1 Cor. sii, 13 ; vi, 11 ; (MI. ii, 20, 23 ; 1 Pet. iii, 21. 

We have no grounds to believe that “ the passover” 
which Jesus ate with his disciples was intended to be 
perpetuated in the Christian Church; nor does it ap- 
pear that he instituted a new ceremony on that occa- 
sion. lie conformed to the Mosaic law', which was not 
abrogated until his crucifixion, when lie blotted out 
the handwriting of ordinance®, and “ took it out of the 
way, nailing it to his cross” (Col. ii, 11). “Behold, I 
stand at the door and knock,” says Christ; “if any 
III.— U u 


'3 FRIENDS, PROGRESSIVE 

man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in 
to him, and will sup with him, and he with me” (Rev. 
iii, 20). This is the Lord’s Supper, in which the new 
wine of the kingdom and the bread of life are distrib- 
uted to sustain the soul. 

III. Worship, Discipline^ etc . — The author of Chris- 
tianity has prescribed no set form of w orship, enjoining 
only that it must be in spirit and in truth. Friends 
have adopted silence as the basis of public worship, be- 
lieving that it is free from the objections that exist 
against all prescribed forms ; that it gives to each wor- 
shipper an opportunity for self-examination and secret 
prayer, with the benefit that results from the sympa- 
thy of other minds prestmt; and that it affords the 
best preparation for the exercise of spiritual gifts in 
preaching, prayer, or praise. 

The Christian ministry can be rightly exercised by 
those only who have received a call and qualification 
from the Head of the Church, and the prophecy of 
Joel, quoted by Peter, is fulfilled under the Gospel: 
“It shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I 
will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh, and your sous 
and your daughters shall prophesy.” As it was in the 
primitive Church, so it is now in the Society of Friends, 
women as well as men are permitted to preach the 
Gospel. No salary or pecuniary compensation is al- 
lowed to ministers, but those who travel iu the service 
of the Gospel may partake of the needful hospitality or 
assistance of their friends. 

Testimonies . — The testimonies of Friends against 
war, slavery, oaths, lotteries, and the use, as a bever- 
age, of intoxicating drinks, as also against vain fash- 
ions, corrupting amusements, and flattering titles, are 
founded on Christian principles, and have been found 
salutary in practice. 

Discipline . — The system of Church government ex- 
isting in this society is in accordance with the doc- 
trine, “ One is your Master, even Christ, and all ye arc 
brethren.” There is no distinction like that of clergy 
and laity, but all the members of both sexes have a 
right to participate in the deliberations and decisions 
of the body. In meetings for discipline the men and 
women meet in separate apartments, and are co-ordi- 
nate branches of the body, each transacting the busi- 
ness pertaining to its own sex; but, in some cases, 
when needful, they act in concert, by the appointment 
of joint committees of men and women. The co-oper- 
ation of women in the administration of discipline has 
been found salutary in many respects, but especially 
in promoting among them self-reliance and dignity of 
character. 

IV. Statistics . — "We have six Yearly Meetings, con- 
nected by epistolary correspondence, but independent 
of each other in regard to discipline. The aggregate 
membership of these is about 35,000. 

Large numbers of persons not members, but w ho af- 
filiate with us in religions profession, regularly attend 
our meetings for divine worship. 

We have, in the cities of New York, Philadelphia, 
Baltimore, and Richmond, Indiana, extensive and w’ell- 
sustained schools, adapted to a high standard of useful 
and practical education. There are also numerous 
schools of varied character throughout the Yearly 
Meetings. 

Swarthmorc College, situated about eight miles 
south-west from Philadelphia, on the line of the West- 
chester Railroad, is designed for three hundred pupils 
of both sexes. Here our children, and those intrusted 
to our charge, may receive the advantages of a thor- 
ough collegiate education, under the guarded care of 
members of our religious society. (S. M. J.) 

FRIENDS, PROGRESSIVE. A religious society 
organized in 1S53, in Chester County, Pa., a result, 
in part, of a division in Konnett Monthly Meeting of 
Friends (“ Ilicksite”). The division was caused hy 
differences of opinion upon questions of reform and 


FRIENDS OF GOD 


674 


FRIENDS OF GOD 


progress ; the official members of the Society of Friends 
generally discouraging activity in temperance, anti- 
slavery, and other similar organizations, while a large 
proportion — in many localities a majority — of the laity 
were warmly in favor of co-operating with them. 
After years of contention, the two parties in Kennett 
Monthly Meeting fell asunder, and finally, in 1853, an 
association was organized under the name of “Penn- 
sylvania Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends.” 
The new society opened its doors to all who recognised 
the equal brotherhood of the human family, without 
regard to sex, color, or condition, and who acknowl- 
edged the duty of defining and illustrating their faith 
in God, not by assent to a creed, but by lives of per- 
sonal purity, and works of beneficence and charity. 
It disavowed any intention or expectation of binding 
its members together by agreement as to theological 
opinions, and declared that it would seek its bond of 
union in “identity of object, oneness of spirit in re- 
spect to the practical duties of life, the communion 
of soul with soul in a common love of the beautiful 
and true, and a common aspiration after moral excel- 
lence.” It disclaimed all disciplinary authority, 
whether over individual members or local associa- 
tions ; it set forth no forms or ceremonies, and made 
no provision for the ministry as an order distinguished 
from the laity ; it set its face against every form of 
occlesiasticism, and denounced as the acme of supersti- 
tious imposture the claim of churches to hold an or- 
ganic relation to God and to speak by his authority, 
maintaining that such bodies are purely human, the 
repositories of no power save that rightly conferred 
upon them by the individuals of whom they are com- 
posed. Besides the Yearly Meeting, which includes 
persons living in places widely distant from each oth- 
er, there is a local association, which meets for worship 
atLongwood, near Ilamorton, on every First day, and, 
during a large portion of every year, maintains a First- 
day School for children. This local body has never 
employed a religions teacher, though there is nothing 
in the principles of the organization to forbid such a 
step whenever its members may think it necessary or 
expedient. Uniformity of practice in this respect is 
neither expected nor desired, it being held that the ar- 
rangements for meetings should be in every case adapt- 
ed to the peculiar needs and tastes of the communities 
in which they are held. The division in the Society 
of Friends was not confined to Kennett Monthly Meet- 
ing, hut extended to every Yearly Meeting in the bodj T . 
As early as 18-19, that division led to the organization, 
at Green Plain, Ohio, of a society exactl}*- similar to 
that of the Progressive Friends, but under a differ- 
ent name. This society is now extinct. At Junius, 
near Waterloo, N. Y., in the same year, a society of 
“Congregational Friends” was formed. This society 
afterwards took the name of “ Progressive Friends,” 
and, at a later day, that of “Friends of Human Prog- 
ress,” by which it is still known. In Salem, Colum- 
biana County, Ohio, in 1852, a society called “Pro- 
gressive Friends” was organized, which had hut a 
brief existence. In North Collins, Erie County, N. Y., 
there is a society bearing the name of “Friends of 
Human Progress,” which, in its principles, is very 
similar to the “ Progressive Friends.” (0. J.) 

Friends of God, In the 14th century a spirit 
of mysticism pervaded nearly all Western Germany, 
from the Low Countries to the very borders of Italy. 
It brought under its influence all ranks and classes, 
and led ultimately to the formation of an extensive 
but unorganized brotherhood, the so-called Friends of 
God. Among their chief scats were the cities of Stras- 
burg, Cologne, Basel, Constance, Nuremberg, and 
Nordlingen. Their distinguishing doctrines were self- 
renunciation, the complete giving up of self to the will 
of God, the continuous activity of the Spirit of God in 
all believers, the possibility of intimate union between 
God and man, the worthlessness of all religion based j 


upon fear or the hope of reward, and the essential 
equality of the laity and clergy, though, for the sake 
of order and discipline, the organization of the Church 
was held to be necessary. They often appealed to the 
declaration of Christ (John xv, 15), “ Henceforth I call 
you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what 
his lord doeth ; but I have called you friends ; for all 
things that I have heard of my Father 1 have made 
known unto you ;” and from this probably arose their 
name, which was not intended to designate an exclu- 
sive party or sect, but simply to denote a certain stage 
of spiritual life, the stage ol* disinterested love to God. 
From this association went forth monks and ecclesias- 
tics who cherished a lively interest in the spiritual 
guidance of the laity, preached in the German lan- 
guage (the vernacular of the people), and labored not 
only to educate the people to perform their duties as 
required by the Church laws, and to all manner of 
good works, but also “ to lead them forward to a 
deeper experience of Christianity, to a truly divine 
life according to their own understanding of it.” 
From their number also went forth “those priests 
who, scorning to be troubled by the common scru- 
ples during the time of the papal interdict, and amid 
the ravages of the Black Death, bestowed the con- 
solations of religion on the forsaken people” (Xean- 
der, Church History , vol. v). Many of their leaders 
were in close connection with convents, especially 
those of Eugenthal and Maria Medingen, near Nurem- 
berg ; and it is said that Agnes, the widow of king An- 
drew of Hungary, and various knights and burghers, 
were in close connection with this association. But 
foremost among their leaders was the Dominican monk 
Tauler (q. v.), of Strasburg, who spent his life in 
preaching and teaching with wonderful success in the 
country extending from his native city to Cologne, 
and whose influence is to this day active among his 
countrymen by means of his admirable sermons, which 
are still widely read. Much of his religious fervor 
and light he himself attributed to the instruction of 
his friend, Nicholas of Basel (q. v.), a layman, whom 
Schmidt, in his work below cited, mentions as the 
greatest of the leaders of the Friends of God. lie has 
often, been called a AValdcnsian, but Schmidt denies 
this, and says that the only sympathy which any of 
the Friends of God had with the AValdensians was anti- 
sacerdotalism. On the strength of documents which 
Schmidt has lately discovered, the Friends of God are 
I said to have been “mystics to tbc height of mysti- 
cism : each believer was in direct union with God, 
j with the Trinity, not the IIol} r Ghost alone.” He 
| says also, “they were faithful to the whole mediaeval 
imaginative creed : transubstantiation, worship of the 
Yirgin and saints, and Purgatory. Their union with 
the Deity was not that of pantheism, or of passionate 
love ; it was rather through the fantasy. They had 
wonders, visions, special revelations, prophecies. Their 
peculiar heresy was the denial of all special preroga- 
tive to the clergy except the celebration of the sacra- 
ments; the layman had equal sanctity, equal commu- 
nion with the Deity, saw visions, uttered prophecies. 
. . . Neither were they Bible Christians ; they hon- 
ored and loved the Bible, but sought and obtain- 
ed revelation beyond it. They rejected one clause 
of the Lord’s prayer. Temptations were marks of 
God’s favor not to be deprecated. But, though suf- 
fering was a sign of divine love, it was not self-in- 
flicted suffering. They disclaimed asceticism, self- 
maceration, self-torture. All things to the beloved 
were of God; all therefore indifferent” (Milman.Xn/- 
in Christianity , viii, 399). The Friends of God are 
frequently charged with pantheism, but Neander un- 
dertakes to defend them against this charge, admit- 
ting, however, that those of them who knew not how 
to “guard against the danger of falling into the un- 
fathomable abyss of God unrevealed, instead of hold- 
ing fast to the God revealed in Christ, plunged into 


FRIENDS OF LIGHT 


G75 


FRIES 


the gulf of pantheistic self-deification.” And that this 
gave rise to “the wild, fanatic, pantheistic mysticism, 
which was for getting beyond Christ, beyond all posi- 
tive revelation, all humanization of the divine, as we 
see it exemplified particularly among a portion of the 
so-called Heghards (q. v.) . . . and the so-called Broth- 
ers and Sisters of the Free Spirit (q. v.). Among those 
of the Friends of God who by unwise speculation, and 
by an intoxication of self-forgetting love discarding 
all calm reflection, “were unconsciously betrayed into 
effusions and expressions upon which that wild, fanat- 
ical pantheism afterwards seized and fastened itself,” 
is reckoned Master Eckhart (q. v.), from whose writ- 
ings and sermons twenty-six propositions connected 
with a pantheistic mode of thinking, or verging upon 
such a mode of thinking, had been drawn, were for- 
mally condemned. l>ut be promptly retracted all 
those propositions which were found to be heretical or 
scandalous, “and in general submitted himself to be 
corrected by the pope and the Church.” These “pan- 
theistic and quietistic views” were earnestly opposed 
by Kuysbroek (q. v.) and by Tauler. The former es- 
pecially secured himself against the danger of panthe- 
ism by the prominence he gives to the will, “ which 
he describes as the main-spring on which all develop- 
ment of the higher life depends.” Another of the 
leaders of the Friends of God was the Dominican monk 
Heinrich Snso (q. v.), of Suabia, who, like Tauler, gave 
“ prominence to the mediation of Christ as necessary 
to the attaining to true communion with God, and was 
thus distinguished from those pantheistic mystics Avho, 
notwithstanding mediation, were for sinking directly 
into the depths of the divine essence.” Many of the 
leaders of the Friends of God were put to death by or- 
der of the Inquisition on the charge of being Beg- 
hards. Among these were Nicholas of Basel and two 
of his associates, Martin of Kcichenau, and a Benedic- 
tine and follower of Martin. Milman ( Latin Christi- 
anity, p. 408) says that the influence of the doctrines 
taught by the Friends of God, especially of Tauler and 
his followers, were “seen in the earnest demand for ref- 
ormation by the councils; the sullen estrangement, 
notwithstanding the reunion to the sacerdotal yoke, 
during the Hussite wars; the disdainful neutrality 
when reformation by the councils seemed hopeless;” 
and that it is especially “seen in the remarkable book 
German Theology, attributed by Luther to Tauler him- 
self, but doubtless of a later period.” — Ncander, Church 
History , v, 380 ; Herzog, Real-Fncyklopudie, x , 159 ; 
Schmidt, Gottesfreunde im xiv Jahrkundert (Jena, 1855) ; 
Pfeiffer, Deutsche 2fystiker des 14 and 15 Jahrh. ; Mil- 
man, Latin Christianity, viii, 309 ; Kurtz, Church Ilist . 
i, 484 ; Ben not, in Methodist Quart, Rev. Jan. 18G9, p. 
45 sq. ; Thrologia Germanica, edit, by Dr. Pfeiffer and 
transl. by Susanna AVinkworth. (.1. H. AY.) 

Friends of Light. Sec Free Congregations. 

Fries, Jacob Friederich, an eminent German, 
philosopher, was born at Barby August 23, 1773. lie 
was at first private tutor in Switzerland, became pro- 
fessor of philosophy in 1804, then successively profess- 
or of mathematics at Heidelberg in 1805, and of the- 
oretical philosophy at Jena in 1816. In 1819 he was 
deposed for political reasons, but restored in 1824 as 
professor of natural philosoph}’- and mathematics, and 
died there August 10th, 1843. The personal relig- 
ious life of Fries was not a happy one. II is father 
was a Moravian, but died when the son was only five 
years old. The school education to which lie was sub- 
jected seems to have estranged him from Christianity 
when quite young. AYhile yet a young man, he wrote : 
“The lectures of Garve on imagination and supersti- 
tion have changed my religious sentiments. All the 
religious system in which I was bred has been over- 
thrown ; but this causes me no uneasiness. It was 
easy for me to throw the atonement overboard ; I 
have never had any dread of God ; the thought of the 


Holy One has always been to me a thought of peace.” 
In 1799, when his mother died, he wrote : “ The belief 
in a reunion I leave to others; I am not phantast 
enough to hold it.” Yet in 180G he wrote to a Mora- 
I vian brother : “My peace cannot compare with yours ; 

, the deserted Penates will probably punish me for a 
long time yet.” A sketch of his life has recently ap- 
peared, by E. L. D. Ilenke. J. F. Fries aus seinem 
hundschnftlichen Nachlasse dargestellt (Leipzig, 1867, 
8vo). 

The professed aim of Fries in philosophy was to give 
a firmer basis to Kant’s system than that philosopher 
himself had laid down, “lie found two faults with 
- Kant : 1st. The vicious logical arrangement of his doc- 
! trine, by which he makes the value of his categories to 
j depend on transcendental proofs, and that of his ideas 
on moral proofs, instead of rising, without any proof, 
to the immediate knowledge of reason. On this point 
Fries approaches the views of Jacobi. 2d. The con- 
founding of psychological ideas with philosophy, prop- 
erly so called, and not properly distinguishing the aids 
that psychology furnish to metaphysics from metaphys- 
ics themselves. He regarded the life and independence 
of Kant’s practical philosophy as the most beautiful 
part of bis system. Fries maintains that he has rem- 
edied the errors of Kant, and that he has placed the 
doctrine of faith, which is the focus of all philosophical 
conviction, on a solid basis. And be asserts that he 
has effected this by means of researches carried on in 
the spirit of Kant himself. Fries, as well as Kant, 
makes the limits of science his starting-point; hence he 
arrives at pure faith of reason in that which is eternal, 
a faith that is strengthened by presentiment (Ahnung'). 
Knowledge, or science, is only concerned with sensu- 
ous phenomena ; the true essence of things is the ob- 
ject of faith; we are led by feeling to anticipate, even 
amidst appearances, the value of belief, which is the 
offspring of the limitation itself of knowledge. Here 
again, in placing feeling and presentiment (Ahnung) 
above science, Fries approaches the doctrine of Jacobi. 
His labors in connection with philosophical anthropol- 
og3’, which he regards as the fundamental science of 
all philosophy, arc of great interest. They contain 
particular theories on spiritual life, and particularly on 
the three fundamental faculties of the mind — cognition, 
feeling ( Gemuth , the faculty of being interested), and 
the faculty of action, which is supposed to precede 
the two former. Afterwards follow theories on the 
three degrees of development — sense, habit, understand- 
ing (as the power of self-command and self- formation) ; 
on the degrees of thought, qualitative and quantitative 
abstractions of the imagination, mathematical intui- 
tion, attention, the difference between the understand- 
ing and the reason, etc. His anthropological logic con- 
tains also some excellent views on the subject of rea- 
soning, method, and system. He regards practical 
philosophy as the theory of the value and end of hu- 
man life and of the world, or the theory of human wis- 
dom. It is there that you find the last goal of all 
philosophical research; it is divided into a moral the- 
ory and a religious theory (theory of the final goal of 
the universe). The former may be also subdivided 
into general ethics, or theory of the value and end of 
human actions, theory of virtue, and theory of the 
state” (Tennemann, Manual Hist. Philos., revised by 
Morell, § 422). 

Fries “called his system ‘Philosophical Anthropol- 
ogy,’ since he made all further philosophical knowl- 
edge dependent on man’s self-knowledge. lie distin- 
guished three grades of Frkenntniss ; we know (icisseii) 
the phenomena of our subjective thinking; this is the 
realm of philosophy. We believe (ghiubeii) that there 
are appearances — Erscheinungen — out of the mind that 
all is not a mere subjective creation. We have a feel- 
ing, a presentiment (rihicri), that there is a reality, a 
substance behind these appearances ; here Fries places 
all that pertains to God, the existence of the soul and 


FRIES 


G7G 


FRIESLAND 


immortality. De Wette had much conversation with 
.Fries, first at Jena, then at Heidelberg:, and to him he 
essentially owed his transition from the dry Kantian 
rationalism to the method which may be most simply 
named the ideal-believing . After listening to this sys- 
tem, De Wette says that he gathered up, as by magic, 
his previously scattered knowledge and convictions 
into a well-ordered and beautiful whole. The philoso- 
phy of Fries seemed to commend itself in this, that it. 
preserved t lie formal, logical reflection of Kant, with- 
out sharing in the metaphysical insipidity, yea, empti- 
ness of the contents of that philosophy” (Edwards, in 
Bibliotheca Sacra, 1850, p. 780). 

Ilis principal writings are : Reinkold, Fichte w. Sc hel- 
ling (Lpz. 1803) : — Pit Uosoph isch e Rechtshhre (Jena, 
1804) : — System dsr Philosophic (Lpz. 1804): — Wissen, 
Glauben und Ahnung (Lpz. 1805): — Xeue Kritik tier 
Ycrnunft (Heidelberg, 1807, 3 vols.; 2d edit. 1830) : — 
System d. Logih (Lpz. 1811 ; 3d edit. 1837): — Populdre 
Vorles. i'tbcr d. Sternhuule (Lpz. 1813 ; 2d edit. 1833) : 
• — Ueber d. Gefahrdung d. 1 Yohlstandes u. Charakhrs d. 
Deutschen c lurch d.Juden (Lpz. 1816) : — Yom Deiitschen 
Bunde , etc. (Lpz. 1817): — Ilandbuch der praktischen 
Philosophic (Lpz. 1817-32, 2 vols.): — Uandbuch d. psy- 
chischen A nthropologie (Jena, 1820; 2d edit. 1837-30, 
2 vols.): — Die muthematische Xaturphi losoph ie (Jena, 
1822) : — Julius u. Fragoras (a philosophical novel) 
(Jena, 1822) : — Die Lehre d. Liebe , d. Glaubens , u. d. I I off- 
nun g (.Jena, 1823) : — System d. Metaphysik (Jena, 1824) : 
— Polemische Schriften (Ilalle, 1824): — Die Gesch.der 
Philosophic, etc. (Ilalle, 1837-40, 2 vols.). In connec- 
tion with Schmid and Schroter, he published the Oppo- 
sitionschrift f. Theologie u. Philosophie. — Hoefer, Xonv. 
Biog. Gcner. xviii, 876 sq. ; Herzog, Real-Encyldopddie , 
vii, 355 sq.; Morell, Modern Philosophy , pt. ii, ch. vii. 

Fries, Justus Henry, a minister of the German 
Deformed Church, was born in Westphalia, Germany, 
April 24, 1777, and came to America in 1803. He 
could not pay his passage, and hence became a “ Iie- 
demptioncr,” and served a farmer in York County, Pa., 
three years. Being free, he studied theology with Dev. 
Daniel Wagner, in Frederick, Md. He was licensed 
in 1810, and not long afterwards ordained. For two 
years he served eight congregations in York County, 
Pa., and in 1812 he removed to Buffalo Valley, in Union 
County, Pa., where he continued the remainder of his 
life, doing a pioneer work, his labors extending over 
several counties, lie died October 9, 1839. He was 
noted for his extraordinary memory, his eccentricities 
of character, his great love of American institutions, 
his fondness for politics, his active life in the ministry, 
and his great success in laying the foundation of nu- 
merous now flourishing German Deformed congrega- 
tions in the beautiful valleys of the Susquehanna. lie 
preached only in German. (II. H.) 

Friese, or Fries, or Frisius, Martin, a Jutland 
theologian, was born at Riepen in 1688, and studied the- 
ology at the University of Copenhagen under Warnla- 
lin, Masius, and the ex-rabbi Steenbuch. In 1712 he 
was appointed instructor in philosophy, and in 1717 
preacher and confessor to the household of a nobleman. 
In 1719 he was called to the university at Kiel ns third 
professor of theology. Here he lectured especially upon 
Exegesis of the New Testament, and wrote several po- 
lemical works. After a visit to the libraries at Nurem- 
berg and Wolfcnhuttel, he was, on his return in 1725. 
promoted to t he second professorship, and at nearly 
the. same time was elected Prokanzlcr , which position 
he held up to the time of his death, August 15, 1750. 
Ilis principal works are: Dissertationes Hi de errotibus 
pictomm contra historiam sacram (Copen. 1703-5, 4to) : 
— Schediasma de ctxrimovia to? hcTtvdootiv ruv Koviup- 
Ton ad Matt, x, 14 (Co pen. 1706, 4to): — Disslrtatio de 
coKtjtaaiu e.ihortationis 1 remote , ad vnionem inter Evan- 
gelicos et reformates procurandam hudie factic (Kiel, 
1722 and 1733): — Fundamenta Theoloyitc theticic , selec- 


tionibus dictis probantibus eorumque, ubi opus est , exegesi 
et observationibns preecipuis instrncta (Hamb. 1724) : — 
Demonst ratio exegetica de nonmdlis valde notatu dignis 
modis qnibus 1 T. in Novum aellegatur, pariterque de 
grirea 70 interpret um versione, etc. (Hand). 1730, 4to) : — 
Dissert, de vsu et abusu Grcccorum in prhtds sc?'iptorum 
in illustrandis X. T. vocabulis et dicendi modis (Kiel, 
1733). — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Giner . xviii, 879. (J.W. M.) 

Friesland, Frisians. — Friesland, in the wider 
sense of the word, was formerly the name of the whole 
north-western coast of Germany and the coast of Hol- 
land, embracing the country from the mouth of the 
Weser to the central mouth of the Rhine. It was di- 
vided by what is now called the Zuvder Zee into West 
Friesland and East Friesland. The latter was subse- 
quently again divided into two parts, the country be- 
tween the Zuyder Zee and the Ems, now forming the 
Dutch provinces of Friesland and Groningen, and the 
country between the Ems and the Weser, constituting 
the modern East Friesland, which was until 1744 a 
separate principality, was then united with Prussia, 
fell in 1815 to Hanover, with the whole of which it 
was in 1866 again annexed to Prussia. A branch of 
the Frisians, the North Frisians, inhabited the western 
coast of Schleswig and the islands of Heligoland, 
F ohr and Sylt. 

The first Christian missionary among the Frisians 
was bishop Amamlus, who entered the country in the 
train of the conquering Franks. He met with hut 
little success, but established two convents at Ghent, 
BJandinmn and Gandanum. In 636, Dagobert, king 
of the Franks, built the lirst Christian chinch of Fries- 
land at Utrecht, at that time called Wiltenburg; and 
St. Eligius (q. v.), bishop of Novon, made great efforts 
to gain a footing for Christianity among the people, 
hut he had likewise hut little success. About 675, 
Adgill I, who ruled over that part of Friesland which 
was not conquered by the Franks, gave permission to 
the English bishop Wilfrid to preach. r l lie defeat of 
liis successor Dad bod by Pepin of Ileristal extended 
1 he territory of the Franks up to the Yssel and the 
Fly, and thus opened a wider field to the Christian 
missionary. The English monk Wilbrod was conse- 
crated by pope Sergius I archbishop of the Frisians, 
and took up his residence at Wiltenburg. After the 
deatli of Pepin in 714, Radhod made ail attempt to 
shake off the yoke of the Franks, and to expel Christi- 
anity from his territory, but he was again defeated by 
Charles Martel in 717, and had to become a Christian 
himself. He died, however, a pagan in 719. Poppo, 
the guardian of Radhod’s minor son, Adgill II, was 
apparently friendly to Christianity, which found now 
a very zealous missionary in Winfred (St. Boniface, 
q. v.), lmt when a favorable opportunity seemed to of- 
fer he risked a new war against the Franks, in which, 
in 734, he lost his life. Adgill II, who received the 
title of king, but was a vassal of the Franks, openly 
professed Christianity, blit the resistance of the people 
to the new doctrine continued. Adgill 11 was suc- 
ceeded hv his two sons: first Gumlohald, and, later, 
Radhod IT, the latter of whom was a violent opponent 
of Christianity, and was expelled from the country by 
Charlemagne, who embodied the whole of Friesland 
with his empire. Christianity at this time was firmly 
established in the southern part of Friesland. The 
successor of Wilbrod as bishop of Utrecht. Gregory, 
established in his episcopal city a theological school, 
in which many missionaries for Friesland and North- 
western Germany were educated. Among his as- 
sistants, Lebuin and Willehad are mentioned. The 
latter was subsequently appointed by Charlemagne 
bishop of Bremen, and in that position lie zealously 
worked for the conversion of the Frisians. With him 
labored for sevenr years S. Lindger (q. v.), a native of 
Friesland, and pupil of the school of Ctrecht, when 
the rising of the Saxons under Wittekind was follow- 
ed by a general revolt of the Frisians. The defeat of 


FRIEZE 


677 


FRINGE 


this revolt terminated the resistance of the Frisians 
to the Franks and Christianity. Friesland was now 
regarded as a Christian country, hut remnants of pa- 
ganism maintained themselves until late in the Middle 
Ages. 

At the time of the Reformation, West Friesland was 
a part of the Netherlands. Into East F 1 iesland, which 
was ruled by a count, and a part of the German em- 
pire, the Reformation was introduced by count Edzard 
I, who, as early as 1519, became acquainted with the 
writings of Luther, and favored the Reformation, with- 
out, however, using any eoereive measures against 
those who preferred to remain in the Church of Rome. 
Among those who successfully labored in behalf of the 
Reformation was master J organ von der DUre (ftl agis- 
ter A port anus), who had been educated at Zwolle by 
the Rrethren of the Common Life. After the death 
of Edzard, in February, 1528, his son Enno began to 
despoil the churches, suppress the convents, and intro- 
duce the Reformation by force. In 1529, Bugenhagen, 
at the request of count Enno, sent two Lutheran 
preachers from Bremen to organize the new adminis- 
tration of the churches. But already a 
number of the Protestant ministers and 
laity had come under the influences of the 
Anabaptists and Reformed (Zuinglian) 
views. Count Enno expelled Carlstadt, 
and ordered all the Anabaptists out of the 
country ; but the clergy, in 1530, could 
not be prevailed upon to adopt the whole 
of the Lutheran Church discipline which 
was laid before them. Several other at- 
tempts to introduce Lutheranism by force 
failed, and the Reformed system of Zuin- 
gliits maintained the ascendency. In 1543, 
the widow of Enno, countess Anna, who, 
during the minority of her son, acted as 
regent, called a distinguished Reformed 
theologian, Johann a Laseo [see Lasco], 
to Friesland. lie was appointed superin- 
tendent general, and under his adminis- 
tration the Reformed Church of Friesland 
attained a high degree of prosperity and 
reputation. As a refuge of many Protes- 
tant exiles from France, the Netherlands, 
and Great Britain, it received the name 
“ Refuge of the oppressed and exiled 
Church of God.” — Herzog, Real-Encykl. 
iv, G07 ; Onno Ivlopp ,Geschickte Ostfrieslands (Hanover, 
1851-55, 2 vols.), (A. J. S.) 

Frieze, in classical architecture, the middle division 
of an entablature, lying between the architrave and 
the cornice. In the Tuscan order it is plain. In the 
Doric it is divided by three raised flutes, called tri- 
glyphs, into spaces called metopes, which are usually 
filled with sculpture. In the Ionic it is sometimes 
ornamented with sculpture; sometimes the metopes 
swell out in the middle. In the Corinthian and Com- 
posite it is ornamented in various ways, but usually 
either with flowers or figures. Any horizontal band 
that is occupied with sculpture is called a frieze by 
some writers. — Parker, Glossary of Architecture, s.v. 

Frigga, the wife of Odin, and supreme goddess of 
the race of the Asir (or Ases), the celestial gods of the 
Scandinavian mythology, was a daughter of the giant 
Fjorgym, presided over marriages and in the assem- 
blies of the goddesses, which were always held in her 
palace, was prescient of, but never revealed, the fate 
of m?n, knew the language of plants and animals, and 
through her great wisdom aided Odin by her counsels. 
Her abode was said to be “the magnificent mansion 
of Fensalir (the marshy halls), which denotes the deep, 
moist earth,” and from her relation to Odin, the sun in 
this mythology, she may be regarded as typifying the 
earth, which, drawing from him the generative princi- 
ples of light and warmth, gives growth and fruitfulness 


to living things. She is closely related to, and fre- 
quently confounded with Freya (q. v.), and is gener- 
ally represented (see pi. 12, fig. 1, Mythology and Relig- 
ious Rites in Icon. Encyclop.) seated in a golden char- 
iot drawn by two white eats, her tresses and veil float- 
ing in the wind, with two attendants, with veils and 
tresses likewise floating, flying near her. — English Cy- 
clopedia, s. v. ; Icon. Encyclop. iv. 277-8 (N. V. 1851) ; 
Thorpe, Northern Mythology. (J. W. M.) 

Fringe (b^a, gedil \ twisted thread, i. e. a tassel, 
Dent, xxii, 12; a “wreath” or festoon for a column, 1 
Kings vii, 17 ; tsitsith' , a jlouer-Wke projection, 

i. e., a tassel , Numb, xv, 38, 39 ; the “fore-/oe&,” Ezek. 
viii, 3), an ornament worn by the Israelites upon the 
edges, and especially at the corners of their robes, as 
an affectation of piety (comp. Matt, xxiii, 5). These 
terms must have denoted pedicles in the shape of bobs 
or flowing threads. Fringed garments, elaborately 
wrought, were very common among both the ancient 
Egyptians and Babylonians. See Embroidery. Such 
fringes, however, as appear upon the tunics and outer 



Ancient Assyrian Fringed Garments: 1. From the Egyptian Paintings; 

2. From the Ninevite Monuments. 

robes of figures delineated on the Assyrian and Egyp- 
tian monuments probably did not entirely correspond 
with those in use among the Jews, although it may be 
presumed that there was a general resemblance be- 
tween those worn for general purposes, i. e. as orna- 
mental appendages. Moreover, it may be doubted 
whether fringes of that description were intended by 
the Jewish legislator, since they were in such common 
use that they could form no proper mark of distinction 
between an Israelite and a Gentile ; and, besides, they 
seem appropriate to state-dresses rather than to ordi- 



Varieties of ancient Assyrian Tassels and Fringe. 


FRINGE 


G78 


nary attire, while it is plainly the latter which is con- 
templated in the prescription of Moses, and this es- 
pecially with a religious reference. See Phylac- 
tery. 


The Mosaic law respecting these ornaments is con- 
tained in Numb, xv, 38-41 ; Dent, xxii, 12, where the 
children of Israel are enjoined to append fringes or 
tassels consisting of several threads, 

to the four corners (r.lEJS of their outer gar- 

ment (“132, nil 03), to put one distinguishing thread 
(“"ro, not “ribbon,” as the A.V.) of deep blue in 
each of these fringes, and constantly to look at them, 
in order to be put in mind thereby of God’s command- 
ments to keep them. What number of threads each 
of these symbolical fringes is to have besides the said 
bine one, of wliat material, or how they are to be 
made, the injunction does not say. Like most of the 
Mosaic law's, it leaves the particulars to be determined 
by the executive powers according to the peculiar cir- 
cumstances of the time. The following account of 
them is chiefly from Kitto’s Cyclop . s. v. 

Guided by the fact that they are symbolical, tradi- 
tion, in determining the manner in which these fringes 
are to he made, endeavored to act in harmony with 
their spiritual import, and lienee fixed that each of 
these four fringes or tassels for the four corners of 
the garment should consist of eight threads of white 
wool, the emblem of purity and holiness (Isa. i, 18); 
that one of these threads is to be wound round the 
others, first seven times, and then a double knot to be 
made ; then eight times, and a double knot (15 = i"H); 
then eleven times (= fV), and a double knot ; and final- 
ly thirteen times and a double knot, so as to 

obtain, from the collective number of times w hich this 


thread is wound round, the words mi"P (Jeho- 

vah is one), constituting the ‘creed which was the dis- 
tinguishing mark of the Hebrew nation, and which 
was inscribed on their banners, whilst the five knots 
represent the five books of the law. As the law', how- 
ever, is said to contain G13 commandments [see 
School], and as the design of these fringes is to re- 
mind the Jew’s of all these commandments, tradition 
has so arranged it that the word which is nu- 

merically COO, with the 8 threads and 5 knots, should 
exactly comprise this number, and thus constitute a 
perfect symbol of the law. 


Originally, as we have seen, 
this fringed or tasseled gar- 
ment was the outer one. It 
was more like a large oblong 
pieee of cloth, with a hole in 
the centre through which the 
head was put, thus dividing 
it into two halves, one cover- 
ing the front, and the other 
the hack of the body, like a 
tunic. 

But w'hen the Hebrew's be- 
gan to mix with other na- 

«*> “P“»n y 

they were dispersed and be- 
came a by-word and a hissing, this ancient badge of 
distinction which God conferred upon them became the 
signal of persecution, inasmuch as it indicated that the 
w’earer of it was a Jew, on whom Christians thought 
they ought to avenge the blood of Christ. Hence the 



Israelites found it necessary to discard the fringed gar- 
ment as an outer dress, and to wear it in a smaller size, 
and a somewhat altered form, as an under garment, in 
order to conceal it from their persecutors. This under 
fringed garment is called "'SIX, the four-cor- 

nered dress, or simply T fringes or tassels , and is i 
worn by every orthodox Jew to the present day. 


FEINT 




| Yet, though the Jew’s have been 
compelled to relinquish the large out- 
er fringed garment as a permanent 
article of apparel, they still continue 
to wear it in a somewhat modified 
form at their morning prayers, and 
call it mba, talith' , i. e. cover or 
wrapper . This 

talith , or fringed 
wrapper, is gen- 
erally made of a 
white woollen ma- 
terial : the w’ool 
must he spun by 
Jew’s for this ex- Modified Form of 
press purpose. It the Jewish fringed 
has three or more G:irment - 
blue stripes running in parallel 
lines across the whole garment, at 
the right and left side. In some 
cases, how’ever, the talith is also 
made of silk. Every married Jew 
must wear it at morning prayer ; 
a single man can do what he likes. 
When putting it on, the following 
prayer is offered: “Blessed art 
thou, 0 Lord, King of the universe, 
Modern Jewish mode M q 10 ] ias t sanctified us with tbv 
oi wearing the la- , . .... J 

lUji' commandments, and enjoined us to 

array ourselves with fringes.” The 
Jew’s attach the utmost importance to the fringed gar- 
ment. Thus it is related in the Talmud that “ Ik Jo- 
seph asked Ik Joseph b. Ikabba, which commandment 
has your father admonished you to observe more than 
any other? He replied, The law about the fringes. 
Once when my father, on descending a ladder, stepped 
on one of the threads and tore it off, he would not 
move from the place till it was repaired” ( Sabbath , 118, 
b). Some of the Rabbins go so far as to say that the 
law respecting the fringes is as important as all the 
other law’s put together (see Kashi on Numb, xv, 41). 
It w r as for this reason that the woman w ith the issue 
of blood (Matt, ix, 20), and the inhabitants of Gennes- 
aret (Matt, xiv, 36), were so anxious to touch a fringe 
of our Saviour’s garment (Kpdaretov rev iparlor). 
This superstitions reverence for the external symbol, 
with little eare for the things it symbolized, led the 
Pharisees to enlarge their fringes, believing that the 
larger they made the tassels, the better they did God 
service (eomp. the Rabbinical sayings, “ Whoso dili- 
gently keeps this law of fringes is made worthy, and 
shall see the face of the majesty of God” — Baal Ilatu- 
rim on Numb, xv; “When a man is clothed w’ith 
the fringe, and goes out therewith to the door of his 
habitation, he is safe and God rejoiceth, and the angel 
[of death] departeth from thence, and the man shall 
he delivered from all hurt,” etc. — Ik Menaehem on 
do.); and this it w’as that our Saviour rebuked (Matt, 
xxiii, 5). See Maimonides, i, 100, etc. ; Orach Cha- 
yim , § 7 ; the Hebrew Prayer-book, called 
(Yien. 1859), p. 21, a, etc. See Hem. 

Flint, Jacor, a Roman Catholic bishop of Austria, 
was horn in 176G at Bomisch-Kamnitz, in Austria. He 
w as for several years professor of theology at the Uni- 
versity of Vienna, and caused the establishment of a 
higher theological institution for secular priests, of 
which he himself became the first director. He was 
appointed in 1827 bishop of St. Poclten, and died in 
1834. He is the author of numerous theologieal works, 
as Handhuch der lie! iyionsw issensch a ft (Vienna, 180G- 
14, Gvols.): — Das alte und das nene Cliristenthum , od. 
Kilt. Bclenchtimy der Stunden der Andacht (Vienna, 
1822-24, 4 numbers): — Ceist des Christ enthums (Vien- 
na, 1808, 2 vols.). From 1813 to 182G he was the edi- 
tor of a journal for scientific theology, which was con- 
tinued bv Plotz and Sebaek. (A. J. S.) 


FRISBIE 


679 


FPJTZSCIIE 


Frisbie, Levi, professor in Harvard College, was 
born at Ipswich, Mass., in 1784. He entered Harvard 
College in 1798, and during most of the time till his 
graduation in 1792, he supported himself by labor as a 
clerk or in teaching, lie commenced the study of 
law, but was compelled to desist by an affection of the 
eyes, whicli hindered his progress through life. In 
1805 he was made Latin tutor at Harvard, and in 1811 
professor of Latin, which post he held until 1817, when 
he was transferred to the chair of moral philosophy, 
for which he had peculiar qualifications, llis lectures 
on ethics, government, etc., were considered very able ; 
they were chiefly delivered extempore ; but some of 
them have been published (sec below), lie died July 
9, 1822. lie was a contributor to the North American 
Review, and to other periodicals; and a “ Collection of 
the Writings of Professor Frisbie," edited by Andrews 
Norton, appeared in 1823, containing portions of his 
Lectures , as well as of his periodical contributions. — 
Ware, Unitari in Biography , ii, 231 sq. ; Allibone, Dic- 
tionary of Authors, s. v. 

Frischmutll, Joiiann, a German theologian and 
Orientalist, was born at Wertheim in 1G19, and died at 
Jena in 1G37, in which city he was professor of He- 
brew. Hi was also acquainted 'with Arabic. Besides 
other works, he wrote GO dissertations on philological, 
Biblical, and theological subjects, of which the most 
important are, De Pontificum Ilcbrccorum vestilu sacro: 
— De Sacnficiis : — Ds Pontificaiu Mosis contra Nihu- 
sium: — De Grceca LXX Interpret, vsrsione : — De Medi- 
tatlone Mortis et Mtmoria clarissimorum qnorundam in 
re sacra et literaria Virornm. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, xviii, 889. (T W. M.) 

Frisians. See Friesland. 

Frith or Fryth, John, an English reformer and 
martyr, was born at Seven Oaks, in Kent, where his 
father kept an inn, and was educated at King’s Col- 
lege, Cam bridge, w here he so greatly distinguished him- 
self that, when AVoIscy formed his new college at Ox- 
ford, he was appointed one of its first members. About 
1525 he became acquainted with Tyndale, and by him 
was won over to the principles of the Reformation. 
"With others, he found it necessary to retire to the Con- 
tinent in 1528. On his return to England in 1530 he 
was put into the stocks at Beading as a vagabond, but 
was taken out of them by the school-master of the town, 
to whom lie made his case known in so elegant Latin 
as to prove himself a scholar. From Reading he went 
to London, and there engaged in controversy with Sir 
Thomas More, publishing a tract on Purgatory against 
Sir Thomas. His zeal led to his apprehension. While in 
the Tower he was examined, by the king’s command, 
before archbishop Cranmcr; Brandon, duke of Suffolk; 
Boleyn, earl of Wiltshire ; Slokesley, bishop of Lon- 
don ; Gardner, bishop of Winchester, and the chancel- 
lor Audley. The prisoner maintained that the dogma 
of transubstantiation was not defile ; at the same time, 
he did not condemn those who held the doctrine of a 
corporeal presence ; he only reprobated the prevalent 
notions respecting propitiatory masses and the wor- 
shipping of the sacramental elements. He denied also 
the doctrine of purgatory. At length he was brought 
before an episcopal commission at St. Paul’s, where 
many efforts were made to induce him to recant, but 
in vain. At last the bishop of London pronounced 
sentence upon him as an obstinate heretic, and he was ‘ 
delivered to the secular power. A writ was issued for 
his execution, and he was burnt at Smithficld on the 
4th of July, 1533, “maintaining his fortitude to the 
last, and charitably extending his forgiveness to a j 
bigoted popish priest, who endeavored to persuade the ; 
people that they ought no more to pray for him than 
for a dog.” Frith was an excellent scholar. He 
wrote Treatise of Purgatory : — Antithesis between Christ 
and the Pope: — Mirror, or Glass to knoiv thysef written 
in the Tower, 1532 : — Articles (for which he died) writ- 



ten in Neicgate Prism, June 23, 1533: — Answer to Si? 
Thomas More's Dialogues concerning Heresies : — Answer 
to John Fisher , bishop of Rochester, ete., all of which 
treatises were reprinted at London (1573, fol.), with 
the works of Tyndale and Barnes. They may be 
found also in Bussell, Works of the Reformers , vol. iii 
(Lond. 1828, 3 vols. 8vo). See Hook, Feel. Biog. v, 
235 ; Burnet, Hist, of the English Reformation , i, 2G3- 
277. 

Frithstool or Freedstool, literally the seat of 
peace ; a seat or chair, usually made of stone, placed 
near the altar in some churches, and intended as the 
last and most sacred resort for those that claimed the 
privilege of the sanctuary. The violation of the 
Freedstool was attended by the most severe punish- 
ment. “According to Spelman, that at Beverley had 
this inscription: ‘Haec scdcs XafAca f rcedstoll dicitur 
i. e. pacis cathedra, ad quam reus fugiendo perveniens 
omnimodam habetsccurita- 
tem.’ Frithstools still ex- 
ist in the church at Ilex- 
ham and Beverley Alin- 
star, both in the north aisle 
of the chancel : the former 
of these has the scat hol- 
lowed out in a semicircular 
form, and is slightly orna- 
mented with patterns of 

Beverley Minster (Parker). Norman character; that at 
Beverley is very rude and plain.” — Parker, Glossary of 
A rchitecture, s. v. 

Fritigild, a queen of the Marcomans in the 4th 
century. She was converted to Christianity, and ap- 
plied to Ambrose for further religious instruction. He 
sent her a catechism composed expressly for the pur- 
pose. Through her influence the Marcomans were 
converted as a people, and remained at peace with 
Borne during the incessant wars of the time. 

Fritz, Samuel, a German Jesuit and missionary, 
was born in 1G50, and died in 1730. He was sent as 
missionary to South America, and established mission 
settlements between the Napo and Bio Negro, into 
which nearly 40,000 natives were gathered. The Por- 
tuguese from Brazil attacked and broke up these set- 
tlements, carrying many of the Indians to Para. Fritz, 
after vainly striving to obtain redress, retired to the 
village of Xeberos in Peru, where he died. Ilis map 
of the Amazon, though superseded by the fuller and 
exactor works of more recent explorers, procured for 
him for a long time a just renown as a geographer. — 
Hoofer, Nouv. Biog. Generale , xviii, 895-7. (J. W. M.) 

Fritzsche, the name of a German family distin- 
guished for learning. 1. Christian Friedrich, a 
theologian, was born at Nauendorf Aug. 17, 177G. He 
studied at the Orphan School of Halle, and afterwards 
theology at Leipzig, lie became successively pastor 
of Steinbach in 1799, superintendent at Dobrilugk in 
1809, professor of theology at Halle in 1830, and was 
in 1833 appointed censor for theological works. Be- 
sides a number of occasional articles, pamphlets, etc., 
collected in the Fritzschiorum Opuscula Academica 
(Lpz. 1838), published by himself and two of his sons, 
he wrote Vorlesungen it. d. Abendmahl, etc. : — De Ana- 
martesia Jesu Christi (Halle, 1835-37) : — De. Revelation 
nis Notione biblica (Lpz. 1828). — Pierer, Universal- Lex- 
ikon, vi, 754. 

2. Karl Friedrich August, eldest son of Chris- 
tian Fritzsche, also a distinguished theologian, was 
horn at Steinbach December 1G, 1801. After receiv- 
ing his first instruction from his father he continued 
his studies at the Fniversitv of Leipzig, where he be- 
came professor extraordinary of theology in 1825. 
The year following he went to Rostock as ordinary 
professor, and in 1841 to Giessen, where he died Dec. 
G, 1S4G. Besides some important exegetical essays 
published in the Fritzscliiorum Opuscula Academica, ho 


FRITZLAR 


GSO 


FROG 


wrote De nonnullis secumhc Pauli ad Corinthios Episto- 
la Loci s (Lpz. 1824): — Commentar z. Matthaus (Lpz. 
182*>) : — Commentar z. M<frcus (Lpz. 1830) : — l)e Confor- 
mations Novi Testamenti critica , quani C. Lachmannus 
editlit (Giessen, 1841) : — Pauli ad Romanos Epistola, c. 
comment. perpeL (Ilalle, 1< V 3G-13, 3 vols. Svo). As a 
commentator, liis philological acuteness is perhaps ex- 
treme. — 1 Merer, Universul-Lexikon , vi, 754 ; Christian 
Rev. ix, 4G3; llerzog, Real-Encykl. xix, 510. 

Fritzlar (probably from Frideo tare=r/em??^ pads ) 
is a city of Prussia, situated on the shores of the haler, 
and one of the oldest seats of the Church in Central 
Germany. Here Boniface founded in 732 a church 
dedicated to St. Peter, and a small convent, with a 
school chiefly intended for the accommodation of cler- 
ical students. He first directed it himself, but after- 
wards gave up the charge to his countryman 'Wighert. 
who thus became the first regular abbot of the institu- 
tion (f 747). The second abbot was Tatian ; the third, 
Wigbert II. The school soon gained a great reputa- 
tion. Sturm, abbot of Fulda, and Megingoz, bishop 
of Wurzburg, were among its first scholars. The in- 
stitution remained for centuries at the head of both 
clerical and secular education. F T nder Charlemagne, 
Fritzlar was in 774 burned down by the heathen Sax- 
ons, and the church alone escaped. As it stands at 
present, it is in the Roman style of the 12th century. 
Fritzlar was for a time a bishopric (in 78G), but was 
soon joined to that of Mayence. See S. Scluninke, De 
antiquit at. Friteslariens. diss. (Marburg, 1715, 4to). — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, G12. (J. N. P.) 

Fritzlar, Hermann of. See Hermann. 

Frog tsepharde'a, a marsh-leaper [Gese- 

nius, Thes. Ileb. p. 1184]. pdrpa\og; Fxod. viii, 2 et 
sq. ; Psa. Ixxviii, 45; cv, 80; Rev. xvi, 13), the ani- 
mal selected by God as an instrument for humbling 
the pride of Pharaoh (Exod. viii, 2-14; Psa. Ixxviii, 
45; cv, 30; Wisd. xix, 10). Frogs came in prodigious 
numbers from the canals, the rivers, and the marshes ; 
they filled the houses, and even entered the ovens and 
kneading-troughs; when, at the command of Moses, the 
frogs died, the people gathered them in heaps, and 
“the land stank” from the corruption of the bodies. 
There can be no doubt that the whole transaction was 
miraculous; frogs, it is true, if allowed to increase, 
can easily be imagined to occur in such multitudes as 
marked the second plague of Egypt — indeed, similar 
plagues are on record as having occurred in various 
places, as at Poeonia and Dardania, where frogs sud- 
denly appeared in such numbers as to cause the in- 
habitants to leave that region (see Eustathius on Horn. 
II. i, and other quotations cited hy Bochart, llieroz. iii, 
575); but that the transaction w r as miraculous appears 
from the following considerations: 1. The numbers 
were unprecedented, and suddenly produced, and they 
were found in extraordinary places. 2. The time of 
the occurrence was in spring, when ordinarily the old 
frogs would be engaged in spawning, and the younger 
ones would be in their tadpole state, or, at any rate, not 
sufficiently developed to enable them to go far from 
the water. 3. The frogs would not naturally have 
died, in such prodigious numbers as is recorded, in a 
single day. Amongst the Egyptians the frog was con- 
sidered a symbol of an imperfect man, and w r as sup- 
posed to be generated from the slime of the river - — tic 
rijc roc TTora/tov i\voq (see Ilorapollo, i, 2Gb A frog 
sitting upon a lotus ( Xelumbiuni ) was also regarded bv 
the ancient Egyptians as symbolical of the return of 
the Nile to its bed after the inundations. ITenee the 
Egyptian word Ilhrur , which was used to denote the 
Nile descending , w r as also, with the slight change of the 
first letter into an aspirate, Chrur , the name of- a frog 
(Jablonski, Panth. M'.gypt. iv, 1* § 3). 

The mention of this reptile in the O. T. is confined 
to the passage in Exod. viii, 2-7, etc., in which the 


plague of frogs is described, and to the tw r o allusions 
to that event in Psa. Ixxviii, 45; cv, 30. The term 
also occurs in Wisd. xix, 10, in reference to the same 
event. In the N. T. the word occurs once only in Rev. 
xvi, 13, “three unclean spirits like frogs.” There is 
no question as to the animal meant. Although the 
common frog is so well known that no description is 
needed to satisfy the reader, it may be necessary to 
mention that the only species recorded as existing in 
Palestine is the green ( Rana escidenta ), and that Dr. 
Richardson alone refers the species of Egypt to the 
rarer speckled gray frog ( Rana punctata ). The only 
known species of frog which occurs at present in Egypt 
is the Rana escidenta , of which two varieties arc de- 
scribed, differing from Spallanzani's species in some 
slight peculiarities ( Descript . de V Egypt e. Hist. Natur. 
i, 181, fob ed.). The Rana escidenta , the well-known 
edible frog of the Continent, lias a w ide geographical 
range, being found in many parts of Asia, Africa, and 
Europe. How the R. punctata ( Pelodytes ) came to be 



liana Punctata. 

described as an Egyptian species it is difficult to say, 
but it is almost certain that this species is not found 
in Egypt, and it is almost as certain that none but the 
R. escuhnta does occur in that country (Gunther, “On 
the Geographical Distribution of Batrachia,” Annals 
| X. 11. 1853). It is not at all unlikely, however, that 
an unusual species was selected on this extraordinary 
occasion, in order to deepen the impression of the vis- 
1 itation. A species of tree-frog (/////«) occurs in Egypt, 
but with this genus we have nothing to do. (See Has- 
sclquist, Trar. p. G8, 254 ; Seetzen, Reise , iii, 245, 350, 
3G4, 430.) But, considering the immense extent of the 
Nile from south to north, and the amazing abundance 
of these animals wdiich it contains in the state of spawn, 

( tadpole, and complete frog, it is likely that different 
! species, if they do not occur in the same locality, are 
at least to he met with in different latitudes. Storks 
: and other waders, together with a multitude of various 
enemies, somewhat restrain their increase, which nev- 
ertheless, at the spawning season, is so enormous that 
a bowl can scarcely he dipped into the water without 
immediately containing a number of tadpoles. The 
speckled species is found westward even to the north 
i of France, but is not common in Europe. It is of ash 
I color with green spots, the feet being marked with 


FROMOND 


FROISSARD DE BROISSIA 681 


transverse bands, and is said to change its color when 
alarmed. It is lively, but no strong swimmer, the 
webs on the hinder toes extending only half their 
length : hence, perhaps, it is more a terrestrial animal 
than the common green frog, and, like the brown spe- 
cies, is given to roam on land in moist weather. (See 
Penny Cyclopedia , s. v.). 

Although it is very hazardous, in transactions of an 
absolutely miraculous nature, to attempt to point out 
the instruments that may have served to work out the 
purposes of the Almighty, we may conjecture that, in 
the plague of frogs, a species, the one perhaps we have 
just mentioned, was selected for its agility on land, 
and that, although the fact is not expressly mentioned, 
the awful visitation was rendered still more ominous 
by the presence of dark and rainy weather — an atmos- 
pheric condition never of long duration on the coast 
of Egypt, and gradually more and more rare up the 
course of the river. Travellers have witnessed, dur- 
ing a storm of rain, frogs crowding into their cabin, in 
the low lands of Guiana, till they were packed up in 
the corners of the apartment, and continually falling 
back in their attempts to ascend above their fellows; 
and the door could not be opened without others enter- 
ing more rapidly than those within could be expelled 
(see Roberts, Oriental Illustrations , in loc.). Now, as 
the temples, palaces, and cities of Egypt stood, in gen- 
eral, on the edge of the ever-dry desert, and always 
above the level of the highest inundations, to be there 
visited by a continuation of immense number of frogs 
was assuredly a most distressing calamity ; and as this 
phenomenon, in its ordinary occurrence within the 
tropics, is always accompanied by the storms of the 
monsoon or of the setting in of the rainy season, the 
dismay it must have caused may be judged of when 
we reflect that the plague occurred where rain seldom 
or never falls, where none of the houses are fitted to 
lead off the water, and that the animals appeared in 
localities where they had never before been found, and 
where, at all other times, the scorching sun would have 
destroyed them in a few minutes. Nor was the selec- 
tion of the frog as an instrument of God's displeasure 
without portentous meaning in the minds of the idola- 
trous Egyptians, who considered that animal a type of 
Ptliah, their creative power (Wilkinson, Anc. Fy. iv, 
351 sq.), as well as an indication of man in embryo. 
The magicians, indeed, appeared to make frogs come 
up out of the waters (Exod. viii, 7), but we must not 
understand that to them was given also the power of 
producing the animals. The effect which they claim- 
ed as their own was a simple result of the continuation 
of the prodigy effected by Moses and Aaron ; for that 
they had no real power is evident not only from their 
inability to stop the present plague, the control which 
even Pharaoh discovered to be solely in the hands of 
Moses, but also the utter failure of their enchantments 
in that office, where their artifices were incompetent 
to impose upon the king and his people. (See lvitto's 
Daily Bible Illustra. in loc.). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 
See Plagues (of Egypt). 

Froissaid de Broissia, Charles, a French Jes- 
uit missionary, died Oct. 10, 1704, near Pekin, in China, 
where he was laboring in the missionary work of his 
order. In the hitter controversy between the Domini- 
cans and Jesuits, (1) whether the Chinese terms Tien 
and Chany-ti meant the material heavens or the God of 
heaven, and (2) whether the ceremonial honors paid to 
ancestors and to Confucius are religious acts or only civ- 
il and political customs, lie took an active part, and, in 
agreement with his colleagues, resolved these questions 
in the way most favorable to secure apparent success. 
The Jesuits, adopting the view that these terms meant 
the God of heaven, and that these ceremonies were 
simply commendable customs, not repugnant to the 
Catholic faith, employed Tien and Chany-ti to desig- 
nate God in the Christian sense, and, following the doc- 
trine of Escobar (q. v.), that intention gives character 


[ to the deed, allowed their converts to continue their 
j ceremonial practices, provided they received baptism, 
took the name of Christians, and recognised the su- 
premacy of their missionary teachers. The number of 
nominal conversions was, as might be expected, great. 
The dispute, which excited ridicule of Christianity 
among the educated Chinese, was referred, on the one 
hand, to the Chinese emperor Khang-hi, who decided 
in favor of the Jesuits, and, on the other, to pope Clem- 
ent NT, who decided in favor of the Dominican as 
the orthodox view. Froissard left only some frag- 
ments of translations of important Chinese works. — 
Hoefer, Xouv. Bing. Gener. xviii, 1)20-21. (J. W. M.) 

Fromage, Pierre, a French Jesuit missionary 
and Orientalist, was Lorn at Laon May 12, 1G78, and 
died in Syria Dec. 10 or 23, 1740. lie went on his 
mission-work first to Egypt, where he remained some 
years, and then to Syria, where he passed the remain- 
der of his life, mostly at Aleppo, lie became superior 
of his order, and, in despite of great difficulties, estab- 
lished at the monastery of St.John the Baptist, near 
j An turn, a printing-press, and published, mostly in the 
1 Arabic language, a great number of translations and 
imitations of religious and theological works.- Fro- 
mage was present and made an opening discourse at 
' the great synod of t lie Maronites, held Oct. 15, 173G, 
near Tripoli, in Syria. — Iloefer, A our. Bioy. Generate, 
xviii, 931-2 ; Rose, New Gen. Bioy. Dictionary , vii, 45G. 
(J. W. M.) 

Froment. See Fro mm ext. 

Fromment, Antoine, one of the French and Swiss 
Reformers, was born near Grenoble in 1510. Of bis 
carty life little is known. A disciple of Farel, he pass- 
! ed with him into Switzerland, and labored especially 
j in Neu fell atel and Valid. When Farel was obliged to 
I leave Geneva in 1532 [see Farel], lie sent for From- 
ment, who reached Geneva November 3, and found his 
task a fearful one. He began bis work as a school- 
master, promising to teach “reading and writing in a 
month” to all comers, and to charge nothing in case of 
failure. Many flocked to the school, and were taught 
not only reading and writing, but also the principles 
of the Reformation. On New-Years’ day, 1533, From- 
ment preached in the fish-market against Romanism ; 
a crowd of Roman Catholics broke up the meeting, 
and Fromment was obliged to leave Geneva. lie re- 
turned in 1534. A Dominican named Furbitz, preacli- 
! ing in the cathedral in favor of transnbstantiation, 

I challenged the Protestants to answer his arguments. 
Fromment, who was in the audience, at once began to 
speak. A tumult arose, and again Fromment was 
compelled to depart from the city. He went to Berne, 
accompanied by one of the burgesses of Geneva, and 
obtained the protection of the Bernese government, 
under which both Fromment and Farel returned to 
Geneva. From 1537 to 1552 Fromment was pastor of 
the quarter of St. Gervais. In 1552 he was deposed 
from the ministry on account of certain misconduct on 
the part of his wife, the rigid discipline of Geneva not 
allowing the husband of such a wife to remain a pas- 
tor. He became a notary, and in 1559 was made one 
of the council of Two Hundred. His own fife becom- 
ing disorderly, lie was banished in 15G2, and was only 
allowed to return in 1572. He died in 1585. He wrote 
a history of the reform in Geneva, which has recently 
been edited by Gustave Revilliod, under the title Les 
Actes et les Gestes merveiUcux de la cite de Geneve, faiciz 
du temps de la Reformation, etc. (Geneve, 1851). — Ru- 
chat, Reformation en Suisse, t. iii ; Hang, La France 
Protestante , s. v. ; Polenz, Franzos. Calrinismns , i, 314 
sq. ; Iloefer, Xouv. Bioy. Geiu-rale , xviii, 93G; Ijondon 
Quarterly Review, Oct. 1857, 190 sq. 

Fromond ( Fromondns ), a theologian of Liege, was 
born at Hnccourt in 1587. He taught philosophy and 
theology at Louvain, and was, in 1G33, appointed dean 
of the chapter of St. Peter, in that city. He appears 


FRONT 


G82 


FRORTEP 


to have possessed some scientific knowledge, besides a 
pretty extensive acquaintance with theology and phi- 
lology. Dos Cartes was one of his friends. From on d, 
however, defended l*tolemv*8 system (of the immobil- 
ity of the earth and the motion of the sun) against 
Philippe Laensberg. lie was an intimate friend of 
Jansenius, and was one of the two theologians to whom 
the latter confided, when dying, his renowned Augus- 
tinus. lie died at Louvain in 1053. The best work of 
Fromond is a Commcntaire des Actes des Aputres (Paris, 
1070, 2 vols. fob). He wrote also Anti-Aristarchus, 
sice de orbe Terra ? immobili , adrersus Philippian Lans- 
bergium (Antw. 1031, 4 to) : — Vesta, sice A nti-A ristar- 
chi cinder , contra Jacobum Lansbergium et Cope mi canos 
(Antw. 1033, Jto) : — Brevis Anatomia Jlominis (Lou- 
vain, 1641, 4to). — Hoefor, Nouv. Biog. Gener. xviii, 918. 

Front or Facade. In ancient descriptions of 
churches, the front of the ehurch is spoken of as the 
cast or altar end. In modern writings, when churches 
are “oriented’’ or located with reference to the points 
of the compass, the principal front or facade is the 
west end, the end away from the altar. (G. F. C.) 

Frontier (n:ip, hat sell , end , as often rendered, 
comp. Jer. li, 31 ; Isa. Ivi, 11), the extremity or border 
of a country (Ezek. xxv, 9). 

Frontlet (only in the plur. totaphotlT , 

prob .filets, from an obsolete root p*-, to bind about 
[Gesenius, Thes. Ileb. p. 548] ; Sept. dcraXet/rd [v. r. 
drraXtorou, apparently pointing r 22112], i. e. immov- 
able ; Vulg. vaguely appensum quid , movebuntur , and 
collocate') occurs only in three passages (Exod. xiii, 
16 ; Deut. vi, 8 ; xi, 18), and each time in the form of 
a proverbial similitude, “as frontlets between your 
eyes,” and -also coupled with another similar expres- 
sion, “as a sign (or token) upon your hand” (comp, 
Exod. xiii, 9, “ as a memorial between your eves”), in 
connection with a command to observe the Mosaic law'. 
In Exodus the expression is used more immediately 
with reference to the ordinance respecting the conse- 
cration of the. first-born and the Passover solemnity; 
bnt in the two passages of Deuteronomy it relates to 
the precepts and statutes of the old covenant generally. 
The meaning in charging the Israelites to “ bind them 
for a sign upon their band, and have them as front- 
lets between their eyes,” evidently is, that they should 
keep them as distinctly in vieAV, and as carefully at- 
tend to them, as if they had them legibl}* written on a 
tablet between their eyes, and bound in open charac- 
ters upon their hands ; so that, wherever they looked, 
and whatever they did, the}’- could not fail to have the 
statutes of the Lord before them. That no actual 
written memorial was intended to be enjoined upon 
the Israelites is clear from the nature of the case, since 
no writing to be worn either between the eyes or upon 
the hand could by possibility have served the purpose 
of legibly expressing all the statutes and ordinances 
of the law. It is clear, also, fr< m the alternative 
phrases with which those in question are associated, 
such as, “ That the Lord’s law may be in thy mouth” 
(Exod. xiii, 9); “That these words shall be in thine 
heart “That ye shall lay up these my words in your 
heart and in your soul” (Deut. vi, G ; xi, 18), as well as 
from the parallel sayings of a later day (Prov. vi, 21 ; 
comp, iii, 3; iv, 21). Hut the Jews, some time after 
their return from Babylon (it is not known exactly 
when), gave the direction about having the precepts 
of the law as frontlets a literal turn, and had portions 
of it written out and worn as badges upon their per- 
son. These are called by the modern Jews fephiTin 
(a word signifying prayers , but not found in 
the Bible; Buxtorf, Lex. Tabu. col. 1743). These were 
strips of parchment, on which were written four pas- 
sages of Scripture (Exod. xiii, 2 10, 11-17 ; Deut. vi, 
4-9, 13 22) in au ink prepared for the purpose. They 



1 were then rolled up in a case 
of black calfskin, which was 
attached to a stiffer piece of 
leather, having a thong one 
linger broad, and one and a 
half cubits long. Those worn 
on the forehead were written 
on four strips of parchment 
(which might not be of any 
bide except cow’s hide — Nork, 

Bramm. and Ilabb. p. 211 ; 

! comp. Hesveh. s. v. 'Zkvtiki) 
hTriKovpia), and put into four Form ofthcJewidi “Front* 
little cells within a square case, le t,” according to Cal- 
. . . Al . ^ • . met. 

on which the letter was writ- 
ten ; the three points of the *d being “an emblem of the 
heavenly Fathers, Jehovah our Lord Jehovah” (Zahar, 
fol. 54, col. 2). The square had two thongs (r*V m 'A~), 
on which Hebrew letters were insciibcd; these were 
passed round the head, and after making a knot in the 
I shape of % passed over the breast. This was called 
i “the tepkillah on the head,” and was worn in the cen- 
tre of the forehead (Leo of Modena, Ceremonies of the 
Jews , i, 11, n. 4; Cal met, s. v. Phylactery ; (Jtho, Lex. 
Rabbin, p. C56). The Karaites, on the contrary, ex- 
plained Deut. vi,S; Exod. xiii, 9, etc., as a figurative 
command to remember the law (U eland, Ant. p. 13*2), 
as in similar passages (Prov. iii, 3 ; vi, 21 ; vii, 8 ; Cant, 
viii, C, etc.), and appealing to the fact that in Exod. 
xiii, 9 the word is not n£— 112, lmt “(lint “a memo- 
rial” (Gerliardus on Dent, vi, 8; Edzardus on Jlcra- 
ehoth. i, 209; Heidanus, De Orig. Erroris, viii, B. 6; 
Schottgen, Ilor. JJebr. i, 199; Kosenmiiller, ad loc. ; 
Hengstcnberg, Pent, i, 458). Considering, too, the na- 
ture of the passages inscribed on the phylacteries (by 
no means the most important in the Pentateuch — for 
the fathers are mistaken in saying that the Decalogue 
was used in this way, Jer. 1. c. ; Chrvsost. /. c. ; Tlieo- 
pliyl. ad Matt, xxiii, 5), and the fact that we have no 
trace whatever of their use before the exile (during 
which time the Jews probably learnt the practice of 
wearing them from the Babylonians), they were justi- 
fied in claiming that the object of the precepts (Dent, 
vi, 8 ; Exod. xii, 9) was to impress on the minds of the 
people the necessity of remembering the law. But the 
figurative language in which this duty was urged upon 
the Jews was mistaken by the Talmudists for a literal 
1 command. An additional argument against the literal 
1 interpretation of the direction is the dangerous abuse 
to which it was immediately liable. Indeed, such an 
observance would defeat the supposed intention of it, 
by substituting an outward ceremony for an inward 
remembrance. Accordingly, these badges w ere turned 
into instruments of religious vanity and display, and 
abused for selfish purposes by those who sought, by a 
| great profession of legal ritualism, to hide their defi- 
ciency of inward principle. They even came eventn- 
1 ally to be employed as charms or amulets, having a 
I divine virtue in them to preserve the wearer from sin 
or from demoniacal agency; hence such sayings as 
these concerning them in the Talmudical writings; 
“ Whosoever has tcphiUm upon his head ... is forti- 
i fied against sin ;” “They areal andage for cutting off,” 
i. e. from various kinds of danger or hostility (Spen- 
cer, iv, e. 5). Jerome (on Matt, xxiii, 5) speaks of 
them generally as worn by the Jews for guardianship 
and safety (ob custodian! et muninientum) ; “not con- 
sidering that they were to be borne in the heart, not 
on the body.” — Smith, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. See 
Phylactery. 

On the analogous practice alluded to in Bev. xiii, 
16; xiv, 1, see Forehead. 

Fronton le Due, or Fronto Ducasus. See 
Due, Fronton du. 

| Froriep, Justus Friedrich, a learned Oriental- 


FROSSARD 


683 


FRUIT 


ist, was born at Lubeck June 1, 1745, and was educa- 
ted at Leipsig, where be passed B.D. in 1767. In 1771 
he was made professor of Oriental literature at Er- 
furt, and in 1702 superintendent at Biickeburg. He 
died at Wetzlar Jan. 2G, 1800. Among his numerous 
writings are, De utilitate linguae Arabic ie (Lips, 1767, 
4to) : — A rabische Bibllothek , 8vo : — Bibllothek cl. theolog. 
Wissensclmften (Lemgo, 1771-86, 2 vols. 8vo). — Doer- 
ing, Gelehrten Theologen Deutsehlands, s. v. 

Frossard, Benjamin Sigismond, a Protestant 
theologian, was born at Nyon, Canton Yaud, Switzer- 
land, in 1754, and died at Montauban, France, Jan. 3, 
1830. He finished his education at Geneva, and was 
a pastor in Lyons until the siege of that city in 1703. 
On the establishment of departmental schools (/colas 
centrales) in France, under the decree of Oet. 25, 1705, 
Frossard was made professor of morals in that of Cler- 
mont-Ferrand. In 1802 he was engaged in the com- 
pilation of the organic rules for the reformed worship, 
and in 1800 was charged with the organization of a 
faculty of theology at Montauban, of which he became 
dean. This deanery he lost in 1815, but retained the 
chair of morals and. eloquence. We have from him 
La Cause cles Esclaves negres et ties habitants de la Guini'e , 
etc. (Paris, 1788, 2 vols. 8vo); a French translation of 
Hugh Blair’s Sermons (Lyons, 1782,3 vols. 8vo); and 
of Wilberforce’s Practical View , etc., under the title 
Le Chrlstianisme cles Gens clu Monde, mis en opposition 
avec le veritable Chrlstianisme (Montauban, 1822, 2 vols. 
8vo). — Haag, La France Protestante ; Hoefer, Xouv. 
Blogr. Generate, xviii, 940-50. (J. W. M.) 

Frost (prop. *1*122, kephod , so called from covering 
the ground, “hoar-frost,” Exod. xvi, 14; Job xxxviii, 
20 ; Psa. cxlvii, 16 ; also H *y^,ke' raeh, from its smooth- 
ness, ice , as rendered Job vi, 16; xxxviii, 29; “frost,” 
Job xxxvii, 10; hence cold, “frost,” Gen. xxxi, 40; 
Jer. xxxvi, 30; and “crystal,” from its resemblance 
to ice, Ezek. i, 22), frozen dew. It appears in a still 
night, when there is no storm or tempest, and descends 
upon the earth as silently as if it were produced by 
mere breathing (Job xxxvii, 10). Throughout west- 
ern Asia, very severe and frosty nights are often suc- 
ceeded by days warmer than most western summers 
afford (Gen. xxi, 40 ; see Jer. xxxvi, 30). Dr. Bobin- 
son says (Researches, ii, 97), in Jerusalem “the ground 
never freezes ; but Air. Whiting bad seen the pool back 
of bis bouse (Hczekiah’s) covered with thin ice for 
one or two days.” Dr. Barclay states (City of the 
Great King, p. 50) that “ frost at the present day is en- 
tirely unknown in the lower portion of the valley of 
the Jordan [the Glior] ; hut slight frosts are some- 
times felt on the sea-coast, and near Lebanon.” See 
Palestine. 

The word V-2H, chanamaV , found only in Psa. 
Ixxviii, 47, where (in accordance with the Sept.,Yulg., 
Chald., Arabic, Syr., and most interpreters) it is ren- 
dered “frost,” signifies (according to Michaelis) a spe- 
cies of ant, as destructive to trees (?) as the bail 
(Aben-Ezra) in the parallel member. (See Gesenius, 
Thes. Jleb. p. 499 ; Bochart, Iliercz. iii, 255, edit. Lips.) 
Perhaps, if an animal at all be meant, it may lie a des- 
ignation of the caterpillar (so some of the Rabbins), an 
insect nowhere else properly distinctly referred to in 
the Scriptures, but peculiarly destructive to the foliage 
of trees. See Locust. 

Froude, Richard Hurrell, M.A., was born in 
Devonshire in 1803, entered Eton College in 1816, and 
Oriel College, Oxford, 1821. In 1826 lie beeame fel- 
low and tutor of Oriel, where he remained till 1830. 
He took priests’ orders in 1829, and for the last four 
years of his life he resided alternately in the south of 
Europe and in the West Indies. He was a man of 
fine genius, but of ill-regulated temper and will. He 
shared in the so-called Oxford movement under New- 
man and Pusey, and was himself, before he died, a 


I thorough but unhappy ascetic. Every day, accord- 
ing to his own account, he became “a less and lass 
[ loyal son of the Reformation.” His Remains (Lond. 
1838, 4 vols. 8vo) contain his Journal , Sermons, Essays 
on Rationalism, on Erastianism , on Bechet , Henry II, 
etc. — Edinburgh Review , lxvii, 525 sq. 

Fructuosus, St., archbishop of Braga, sprung 
from the blood royal of the Goths, devoted his proper- 
ty chiefly to the founding of monasteries. He was ab- 
bot of his own monastery of Complutum ; was ordained 
bishop of Dama, and in 656 archbishop of Braga. lie 
died A.D. 665. lie is commemorated in the Roman 
Catholic Church on the 16th of April. He wrote a 
Rule for his monks at Complutum, and a Supplement. 
They are published in Ilolstenius, Cod. Rigid, part ii, 
p. 133 (Paris, 1663) ; also with his Epistohc, in Migne, 
Patrol. Lat. lxxxvii, 1087 sq. ; comp. Mabillon, Ord. 
St. Benedict, i, 437. — Clarke, Succ. Sac. Lit. ii, 408. 

Fruit (properly ^S, peri' , K'«p7r6c), an extensive 
term, denoting produce in general, whether vegetable 
or animal, and also used in a figurative sense (see 
Gesenius’s Ileb. Lex. and Robinson’s Greek Lex.). The 
Hebrews had three generic terms designating three 
great classes of the fruits of the land, closely corre- 
sponding to what may be expressed in English as, 1. 
Corn-fruit, or field produce; 2. Vintage-fruit; 3. Or- 
charcl-fruit. The term ka'yits, “summer-fruits,” 
appears to denote those less important species of fruit 
which were adapted only to immediate consumption, 
or could not easily or conveniently he conserved for 
winter use (Jer. xl, 10, 12). The three terms spoken 
of as being so frequently associated in the Scriptures, 
and expressive of a most comprehensive triad of bless- 
ings, are the following : 

1. h |2n, da gun', “fruit of the field,” or agricultural 
produce. Under this term the Hebrews classed al- 
most every object of feld-cultnre [see Agriculture]. 
Jalm says, “The word is of general signification, and 
comprehends in itself different kinds of grain and 
pulse, such as wheat, millet, spelt, wall-barley, barley, 
beans, lentils, meadow-cumin, pepper- wort, flax, cot- 
ton, various species of the cucumber, and perhaps rice” 
(Bib. Archwol. § 58). There is now no doubt among 
scholars that dagan comprehends the largest and most 
valuable species of vegetable produce, and therefore it 
will be allowed that the rendering of the word in the 
common version by “corw,” and sometimes by “ wheat ,” 
instead of “ every species of corn ” or field produce, tends 
to limit our conceptions of the divine bounty, as well 
as to impair the beauty of the passages where it oc- 
curs. See Corn. 

2. EJVV'ri, tirosh' , “the fruit of the vine” in its nat- 

ural or its solid state, comprehending grapes, moist or 
dried, and the fruit in general, whether in the early 
cluster or the mature and ripened condition (Isa. Ixv, 
8, which is rendered by f3oTprc, grape, in the Sept., re- 
fers to the young grape; while Jndg. ix, 13, where 
“ the vine said, Shall I leave my tirosh [fruit], which 
cheereth God and man?” as evidently refers to the 
ripened produce which was placed on the altar as a 
first-fruit offering in grateful acknowledgment of the 
divine goodness). “Sometimes,” says Jalm, “the 
grapes were dried in the sun, and preserved in masses, 
which were called 2 "2^ 2, anabim', ashi- 

shim', and tsimmukim' (1 Sam. xxv, 18; 2 

Sam. xvi, 1; IChron. xii, 40; Hos. iii, 1)” (Bib. A rchceol. 
§ 69). It is also distinctly referred to as the yielder of 
wine, and therefore was not wine itself, but the raw 
material from which it was expressed or prepared, as 
is evident from its distinctive contrast with wine in 
Amos vi, 15, last clause. See Wine. 

3. yitshar' , “orchard-fruits,” especially win- 
ter or keeping-fruits, as dates, figs, olives, pomegran- 
ates, citrons, nuts, etc. As we distinguish dagan from 


FRUIT 


6S4 


FRUIT-TREE 


riliH (wheat), anil tirosh from anil so must 

we yitshar from "*^^3 (oil), which arc unfortunately 
confounded together in the common version. Site- 
men , beyond question, is the proper word for oil, not 
yitshar ; hence, being a specific thing, we find it in 
connection with a great variety of specific purposes, | 
as sacrificial and holy uses, edibles, traffic, vessels, and | 
used in illustration ofta^te, smoothness, plumpness, in- ! 
sinuation, condition, fertility, and luxury. Yitshar, as i 
to the mode of its use, presents a complete contrast to [ 
shemen. It is not, even in a single passage, employed 
either by way of comparison or in illustration of any ! 
particular quality common to it with other specific arti- 
cles. In one passage only is it joined with r*j, zayith , | 
“olive,” the oil of which it lias erroneously been sup- 
posed to signify, and even here (2 Kings xviii, 32) it 
retains as an adjective the generic sense of the noun, 
“preserving -fruit.” It should be read, “ a land of 
preservi ng-o\Wes (zeyth-yitskar') and dates ( debash ).” 
Cato has a similar expression, oleam conditivam , “pre- 
serving-olive tree” (. De Re Rust. vi). It may be ob- 
served that the Latin terms maum and pomum had an 
extended meaning very analogous to the Hebrew yit- 
shar. Thus Yarro asks, “ Is not Italy' so planted with 
fruit-trees as to seem one entire jwmarium?" i. e., or- 
chard (De Re Rust, i, 2). See Olive; Oil. 

Thus the tiiad of terms we have been considering 
would comprehend every vegetable substance of neces- 
sity and luxury commonly consumed by the Hebrews 
of which first-fruits were presented or tithes paid, and 
this view of their meaning will also explain why the 
injunctions concerning offerings and tithes were suffi- 
ciently expressed by these terms alone (Numb, xviii, 
12; Dent xiv, 23). See Orchard. 

On the terms rendered in our version “fruitful field,” 

“ fruitful place,” etc., see Carmel. 

The term “fruit” is also used of persons (2 Kings 
xix, 30 ; Jer. xii, 2), and of offspring, children (Psa. xxi, 
10; IIos. ix,16; Exod. xxi, 22), so in the phrases “fruit 
of the womb” (Gen. xxx, 2; Dent, vii, 13; Isa. xiii, 
18 : Luke i, 42), “ fruit of the loins” (Acts ii, 30), “fruit 
of the body” (Psa. cxxxii, 13; Mic. vi, 7), and also for 
the progeny of beasts (Dent, xxviii, 51 ; Isa. xiv, 29). 
This word is also used metaphorically in a variety of 
forms, the figure being often preserved : “They' shall 
eat the fruit of their doings,” i. e. experience the con- 
sequences (Isa. iii, 10; Prov. i, 31 ; Jer. vi, 19; xvii, j 
10) ; “ with the fruit of tin' works (of God) is the earth 
satisfied,” i. e. is watered with rain, which is the fruit 
of the clouds (Psa. civ, 13) ; “fruit of the hands,” i. e. 
gain, profits (Prov. xxxi, 16) ; “ fruit of a proud heart.” 
i. e. boasting (Isa. x,12); “fruit of the mouth,” i.e. 
what a man says, or his words (Prov. xii, 14; xviii, 
20) ; “ fruit of the righteous,” i. e. counsel and exam- 
ple (Prov. xi, 30); “to pay' over the fruits,” i. e. pro- 
duce as rent (Matt, xxi, 41); “fruit of the vine,”i. e. 
wine (Matt, xxvi, 29; Mark xiv, 25; Luke xxii, 18); 
“ fruits meet for repentance,” i. e. conduct becoming 
a profession of penitence (Matt, iii, 8); “fruit of the 
lips,” i. e. what the lips utter (Ileb. xiii, 15 ; IIos. xiv, 
3); “ fruits of righteousness,” i. e. holy' actions spring- 
ing from a renewed heart (Phil, i, lib “Fruit,” in 
Lomans xv, 28, is the contribution produced by' benev- 
olence and zeal. “ Fruit unto God,” and “fruit unto 
death,” i. e. to live worthy' of God or of death (Rom. 
vii, 4. 5). The “fruits of the Spirit” are enumerated 
in Gal. v, 22,23; Kph. v, 9; James iii, 17, 18. Fruit- 
fulness in the divine life stands opposed to an empty', 
barren, and unproductive profession of religion (John 
xv, 2-8; Col. i, 10; 2 Pet. i, 5-8; Matt, vii, 16-20). 
See Garden. 

FRUIT, “the product of the earth, as trees, plants, 
etc. 1. ‘ 1 Jessed shall be the fruit of thy' ground and 
cattle.’ The fruit of the body' signifies children : 
‘Blessed shall he the fruit of thy body'.’ By' fruit is 


sometimes meant reward: ‘They shall eat of the fruit 
of their own way's’ (Prov. i, 31) ; they' shall receive the 
reward of their bad conduct, and punishment answer- 
able to their sins. The fruit of the lips is the sacrifice 
of praise or thanksgiving (Heb. xiii, 15). The fruit 
of the righteous — that is, the counsel, example, instruc- 
tion, and reproof of the righteous — is a tree of life, is a 
means of much good, both temporal and eternal, and 
that not only' to himself, but to others also (Prov. xi, 
30). Solomon says, in Prov. xii, 14, ‘A man shall be 
satisfied with good by' the fruit of his mouth;’ that is, 
he shall receive abundant blessings from God as the 
reward of that good he has done by' his pious and 
profitable discourses. ‘Fruits meet for repentance’ 
(Matt, iii, 8) is such a conduct as befits the profession 
of penitence. 

“2. The fruits of the Spirit are those gracious habits 
which the Iloly' Spirit of God produces in those in 
whom he dwelleth anil worketh, with those acts which 
flow from them, as naturally' as the tree produces its 
fruit. The apostle enumerates these fruits in Gala- 
tians v, 22, 23. The same apostle, in Eph. v, 9, com- 
prehends the fruits of the sanctifying Spirit in these 
three things, namely, goodness, righteousness, and 
truth. The fruits of righteousness are such good works 
and holy' actions as spring from a gracious frame of 
heart : ‘ Being filled with the fruits of righteousness,’ 
Phil, i, 11. Fruit is taken for a charitable contribu- 
tion, which is the fruit or effect of faith and love : 
‘ When I have sealed unto them this fruit,’ Rom. xv, 
28; when I have safely' delivered this contribution. 
When fruit is spoken of good men, then it is to be un- 
derstood of the fruits or works of holiness anil right- 
eousness; but when of evil men, then are meant the 
fruits of sin, immorality', and wickedness. This is our 
Saviour’s doctrine, Matt, vii, 16-18.”- — Watson, Theo- 
logical Dictionary , s. v. 

FRLTT-TREE (^S 3?, ets-peri', Gen. i, 11, etc.). 
From the frequent mention of fruit in the Scriptures, 
we may' infer that fruit-hearing trees of various sorts 
abounded in Palestine. Among the number are spe- 
cially' noticed the vine, olive, pomegranate, fig, syca- 
more, palm, pear, almond, quince, citron, orange, mul- 
berry', carol), pistacia, and walnut. Other trees anil 
plants also abounded, which yielded their produce in 
the form of odorous resins and oils, as the balsam, gal- 
bannm, frankincense, ladanum, balm, myrrh, spike- 
nard, storax gum, and tragacanth gum. See Pales- 
tine. The ancient Egyptians bestowed great care 
upon fruit-trees, which are frequently' delineated upon 
the monuments (Wilkinson, i, 36, 55, 57, abridgment). 
'The Mosaic law contains the following prescriptions 
respecting fruit-trees : 

1. The fruit of newly-planted trees was not to he 
plucked for the first four years (Lev. xix, 28 sq.). 
The economical effect of this provision was observed 
by Philo (Opp. ii, 402). Michaelis remarks (Laws of 
Moses, art. 221), “ Every’ gardener will teach us not to 
let fruit-trees bear in their earliest years, but to pluck 
off the blossoms ; and for this reason, that they xviii 
thus thrive the better, and bear more abundantly' af- 
terwards. The very' expression, ‘ to regard them as 
uncircumeised,’ suggests the propriety of pinching 
them off.” Another object of this law may have been 
to exclude from use crude, immature, and therefore 
unwholesome fruits. When fruits are in season the 
Orientals consume great quantities of them. Chardin 
say's the Persians and Turks are not only' fond of al- 
monds, plums, anil melons in a mature state, but they 
are remarkable for eating them before they’ are ripe. 
But there was also a higher moral object in the Mosaic 
regulation. Trees were not regarded as full-grown 
until the fifth y’ear, and all products were deemed im- 
mature (cireXfic) and unfit for use until consecrated 
to Jehovah (Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 19). See Foreskin. 
The Talmud gives minute rules and many' puerile dis- 


FRUMENTIUS 


685 


FRY 


tinctions on the subject ( Orlah , i, 10). See First- 
fruits. 

2. In besieging fortified places fruit-trees were not 
to be cut down for fuel (q. v.) nor for military pur- 
poses (Dent, xx, 19 ; compare Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 42 ; 
Philo, Dpi o. ii, 400). See Siege. This humane pro- 
hibition, however, was not always observed (2 Kings 
iii, 25). See Tree. 

Frumentius, St., called the apostle of Christian- 
ity in Ethiopia, was born in Tyre towards the begin- 
ning of the 4th century. He was brought up by his 
uncle Meropius, whom he accompanied (with his rela- 
tive (Edesius) on a voyage of scientific discovery. 
They landed on the coast of Abyssinia or Ethiopia to 
procure water, but the natives murdered all on board 
except the two boys, whom they found sitting under a 
tree and reading. (Edesius became cup-bearer and 
Frumentius private secretary to the prince. After 
the death of the prince, Frumentius was appointed tu- 
tor to the young prince iEizancs, and obtained great 
influence in state affairs. lie succeeded in founding 
a church, and in 82G went to Alexandria, where Atha- 
nasius (recently made bishop of Alexandria) consecra- 
ted him bishop of Axuni (Auxuma), the chief city of 
the Abyssinians, and an important mart of trade. II is 
labors were rewarded by extraordinary success. lie is 
supposed to have translated the Bible into Ethiopian. 
Theophilus of Arabia visited Abyssinia, and “ repaired 
to the principal town, Anxuma (Axum). Theophilus 
being an Arian, and Frumentius, the friend of Atha- 
nasius, professing in all probability the doctrines of 
the Council of Nice, it is possible a dispute may have 
arisen in their announcement here of their respective 
doctrines, which would necessarily be attended with 
unfavorable effects on the nascent church ; but per- 
haps, too, Frumentius, who had not received a theo- 
logical education, did not enter so deeply into theolog- 
ical questions. Still the emperor Constantins consid- 
ered it necessary to persecute the diseiples of the hated 
Athanasius even in these remote regions. After Atha- 
nasius had been banished from Alexandria, in the year 
35G, Constantins required the princes of the Abyssin- 
ian people to send Frumentius to Alexandria, in order 
that the Arian bishop Georgius, who had been set up 
in place of Athanasius, might inquire into h is ortho- 
doxy, and into the regularity of his ordination” (Xe- 
ander, Church Hist, ii, 120). The princes refused, and 
Frumentius continued at work until his death, the date 
of which is uncertain (perhaps A.D. 360). He is cel- 
ebrated as a saint by the Latins on October 27, by the 
Greeks on November 30, and bv the Abyssinians on 
December 18. — Socrates, Hist. Eccl. i, 19; Theodoret, 
i, 22; Ludolf, Ilistor . sEthiop. iii, 7 ; Butler, Lives of 
Saints , Oet. 27. 

Fruytier, Jacobus, a Dutch divine, was born June 
5, 1G59, at Middelburg. lie was descended from Jan 
Fruytier, a eourtier of William, prince of Orange, and 
a zealous advocate of the Deformation. Jacobus was 
educated at Utrecht. His first settlement was at Aar- 
denburg, where he remained seven years. Li 1GSS he 
accepted a call to Dirksland, in 1G91 removed to Ylis- 
singen (Flushing), and in 1G95 to Muldclburg. In 
1700 he was called to Rotterdam. Here he was in- 
stalled April 25, 1700, and labored zealously in the 
ministry till his death, May 23, 1731. He was one of 
the favorite preachers in that city. Fruytier was a 
zealous Yoetian, and became deeply involved in the 
controversy which at that time raged in the Reformed 
Church between the Cocecjans and Yoetians. Ilis 
first efforts wore those of a pacificator. The violent 
attack on the Coeccjans made by l'ierre de Joucourt, 
minister of the Walloon church at the Hague, was 
ably answered by Brannius, Yan Til, and D’Outrein. 
Fruytier was so much pleased with the replies of the 
two latter that he wrote an artiele expressive of his 
gratitude, and designed to effect a reconciliation. The 


effort was premature and fruitless. D’Outrein re- 
plied, showing that things were not yet ripe for such 
a result, and, moreover, that Fruytier himself was not 
prepared to make sufficient concessions to the opposing 
party. Fruytier replied, but to this rejoinder D’Uu- 
trein made no public response. This is thought to 
have had an exasperating effect on Fruytier, who is 
said to have been a man of choleric temperament. In 
1713 he issued a work that involved him in serious dif- 
ficulties. Its title is, Sion' 8 worstelingen, of historischc 
Zamensprakcn over de verscheidene en zeer bittere xeeder- 
waanlighcden van Christas Ktrke (Zion’s Struggles, or 
historical Conferences respecting the various and very 
! grievous Adversities of Christ’s Church). The work 
i was specially directed against the Cartesian Coccejans, 
i and such as were regarded as rationalistic, but it as- 
i saulted also the Biblical Coccejans and Cocccius him- 
self. Three speakers are introduced — Truth , Piety, 
and Nathanael. The Coccejans are represented as 
1 open or secret enemies to the truth. The charges 
! brought against them by Truth are briefly the follow- 
ing: such a misinterpretation of the Scriptures as 
was intolerable to those who cordially loved the truth ; 
such an undermining, on the part of othcis, of the 
principal mysteries of Christianity that there seemed 
to be a design to reinstate heathenism, or enthrone 
the blasphemies of Socinus; the vital truths of the Bi- 
ble were misunderstood by some, not believed by oth- 
ers, and openly ridiculed by still another class in their 
writings, while they were excessively pleased with 
imaginary discoveries of truth ; and, finally, all these 
things were palliated and defended by others. The 
following are the charges made by Piety: an attempt 
to introduce a heathenish morality as a substitute for 
spiritual religion ; as a consequence of this, that world- 
ly and natural men began to ridicule religion and to 
entertain atheistic views; and, finally, the power of 
religion was no longer visible in the lives of many 
who professed to love the truth, but who, under the 
pretext of Christian liberty, had become conformed to 
I the world. Nathanael is introduced as an unsuecess- 
\ ful apologist for the Coccejans. The gravity of the 
I charges and the acrimonious spirit pervading the work 
gave just offence, and the Classis of Sehieland refused 
their approbation. Notwithstanding this, it was sent 
forth to the world with the stain]) of Church authority 
affixed to its title-page. This rendered the Classis in- 
dignant. Cited before them, he put the blame upon 
the publisher. II is apology was deemed insufficient, 
but lie continued inflexible. The case was carried be- 
fore the Synod of South Holland in 1717, and that 
body, after laboring with him and finding him intrac- 
table, voted to deprive him of his scat in the same un- 
til he should repent and submit. After persisting for 
seven years in his refusal, he finally, in the year 1724, 
confessed his fault and testified his sorrow. He was 
, immediately restored. It is conceded that Fruytier 
may have been actuated by zeal for what lie regarded 
as truth in the publication of this work; but his piety, 
which is admitted to have been deep and fervent, was 
not free from the admixture of fanaticism, nor was his 
devoted attachment to the truth, as he viewed it, free 
from bigotry. A new edition of Sion's Worstelingen 
has just (18G9) been issued at Utrecht. 1 1 is contro- 
versy with Lnmpe on the eternal generation of the 
Son, and the procession of the Iloly Spirit from the 
Father and the Son, may be reserved for the article on 
Lampe. His ministry was long and laborious, and 
he seems to have been influenced by a sincere desire 
to be useful, and to promote vital godliness. He is 
still represented and honored by a respectable posteri- 
ty. See Ypeij and Dcrmont, Geschiedenis dcr Neder- 
landsche Hervormde Kerk , iii Decl, biz. 181, 182, 187- 
191,202-204; on Aanteekeningen (Breda, 1824) ; Gla- 
sius, Godqelecrd Nederland , i Deel, biz. 475 en verv. 
(J. P.W.) 

Fry, Elizabeth, an eminent female philanthropist, 


FEY 


6SG 


FUEL 


■was the daughter of John Gurney, a rich banker near 
Norwich, and a member of the Society of Friends. She 
was born May 21, 1780, at Bramerton. “The benev- 
olence of her disposition displayed itself by her habit, 
while yet a girl, of visiting the poor on her father's 
property, and forming a school for the education of 
their children. Under the teaching of William Sav- 
ory, an American Friend, she was brought to the knowl- 
edge and love of the truth. Her character from that 
day was entirely changed, and she became a genuine 
and consistent Christian. In 1800 she was married to 
Joseph Fry, Esq., of London, and consequently settled 
in the metropolis. There she resumed her early habit 
of visiting the poor ; and although she became the 
mother of a large family, who were most tenderly 
loved and assiduously trained, she yet found leisure, 
hy a rigid economy of time and arrangement of do- 
mestic duties, to render her beneficent offices to her 
poor and suffering fellow-creatures. In 1810 she be- 
came a preacher among the Friends. Every da}’ was 
she found visiting charity-schools, in the houses and 
lanes of the poor, and in the wards of sick hospitals, 
till at length, by a providential train of circumstances, 
she was led to extend her benevolent attentions to the 
inmates of a prison and a lunatic asylum (1813). The 
accents of Christian love found entrance into the hearts 
of those wretched outcasts, and she became the hon- 
ored instrument of remodeling the discipline and im- 
proving the state of our national prisons. At the com- 
mencement of her career there was no classification of 
any sort, no separation between male and female pris- 
oners; all criminals, parents and children, men and 
women, those who -were comparatively innocent with 
the inveterately depraved, were indiscriminately hud- 
dled together, and in these circumstances many left 
the prison far more familiar with crime than when 
they entered it. It required no small resolution and 
faith to enter such a den of iniquity as a British jail at 
that period was, but Mrs. Fry attempted it and w r as 
successful. Her dignity, and at the same time her 
feminine gentleness, subdued their ferocity and won 
their attention. She told them that vice was the cause 
of all their misery ; that if they would return to virtu- 
ous habits they might again be happy, and she pro- 
posed rules for their observance, of which they unani- 
mously expressed their approval. Repeating her visit 
after a brief interval, and finding them equally tracta- 
ble and submissive, she proceeded with her contem- 
plated measures. She appointed a teacher to those 
children w ho had been committed for petty offences, 
and many of whom were under seven years of age. 
Even their profligate mothers took an interest in this 
infant school. Mrs. Fry next devised some employ- 
ment for the women, hy teaching them to sew, and 
supplying them with work. For the accomplishment 
of this arduous undertaking she formed a ladies’ com- 
mittee (1817), some of whom made it a sacred duty to 
attend in the prison daily, so that there was not a mo- 
ment when the females were not under the superin- 
tendence of some proper and efficient guide. A ma- 
tron was at length appointed to live in the prison, and 
take the oversight of the female prisoners. But the 
ladies’ committee still continued their attendance, one 
giving instruction in needlework, another in knitting, 
while a third read some good religious book, and spoke 
to them about the guilt and the wages of sin, the duty 
and superior happiness of a sober, chaste, and religious 
life. In a few’ weeks the most astonishing moral rev- 
olution was effected within the walls of the prison ; 
not only the language of blasphemy, obscenity, and 
fiendish discord entirely disappeared, but women of 
the most abandoned characters were reclaimed to es- 
tablished habits of sobriety, industry, and piety. The 
public interest was greatly excited by the intelligence. 
Visitors of the highest official station and. noble rank 
visited the schools, and the most undoubted testimo- 
nies were borne to the excellent principles and ctfi- 


| cient working of these benevolent schemes. Mrs. Fry, 
while she continued her inspection of the prisons, ex- 
tended her benevolent regards to other classes, such 
as making provision for female convicts both during 
their voyage out and at their allotted stations. She 
also visited all the principal jails in Scotland and Ire- 
land, France, Holland, Denmark, and Prussia, and her 
last scheme of philanthropy was begun with a view 7 to 
benefit British seamen, particularly to alleviate the 
miserable state of the coast guard; forming libraries 
and adopting means for circulating books and tracts 
in men-of-wuir ships. These anxious and multifarious 
j labors made serious inroads on the health of this cx- 
| cellent lady. After trying the waters of Bath in the 
spring of 1845, she returned home no way improved, 

I and gradually sank till she expired at Ramsgate, Oc- 
tober 11. Her death was lamented throughout Europe 
as a loss to humanity. She was, as she has often been 
| called, ‘the female Howard,’ and, like her prototype, 
her benevolent exertions were the fruit of a lively and 
established faith in the Gospel of Christ.” — Rich, Cy- 
clopaedia of Biography ; Memoirs of Elizabeth Fry , by 
her daughters (London, 1848, 2 vols.; New York, 1850, 
2 vols. 8vo) ; Corder, Life of Mrs. Fry (London, 1853) ; 
Methodist Quart. Review, April, 1851, art. iii ; North 
Brit. Rev. ix, 13G; Princeton Review , xx, 31. 

Frye, Joseph, a Methodist Episcopal minister of 
! the Baltimore Conference, was horn in Winchester, 
Frederick Co., Ya., in 1786, of Lutheran parents; was 
converted under Methodist preaching, and began to ex- 
hort while young, and entered the itinerancy in 1809. 
He retired from the ministry in 1836, and died in Bal- 
timore May, 1845. Mr. Frye had remarkable powers 
as a ] Teacher. Hundreds were converted through his 
preaching. The Rev. Alfred Griffith relates that on 
one occasion General Jackson (then President of the 
United States) heard Mr. Frye preach. “The tears 
ran down the President’s face like a river ; and, indeed, 
in this respect, he only show ed himself like almost cv- 
1 erybody around him. When the service was closed, 
he moved up towards the altar with his usual air of 
dignity and earnestness, and requested an introduction 
to the preacher. Mr. Frye stepped down to receive 
the hand of the illustrious chief magistrate; but the 
general, instead of merely giving him his hand, threw 
his arms around his neck, and, in no measured terms 
of gratitude and admiration, thanked him for his ex- 
cellent discourse” (Sprague, Annuls, vii, 472). — Min- 
utes of Conferences , iv, 8. 

Frying-pan marcke'shcth , prop, a boil- 

er ), a pot for boiling meat, etc. (Lev. ii, 7 ; A’i, 9). See 
Pot. Jarchi says it was a deep vessel, so that the oil 
could not become ignited upon the fire. The Rabbins 
distinguish it from the machabatli ' , iron “pan,” 

flat plate, or slice (Lev. ii, 5 ; Ezok. iv, 3), and say that 
the former w 7 as concave and deep, though both were 
used for the same purpose. The Bedouins, and some 
other Arab tribes, use a shallow 7 earthen vessel, some- 
what resembling a frying-pan, and which is employed 
both for frying and baking one sort of bread. See 
Bake. There is also used in Western Asia some mod- 
ification of this pan, resembling the Eastern oven, 
which Jerome describes as a round vessel of copper, 
blackened on the outside hy the surrounding tire which 
heats it. This baking-pan is also common enough in 
England and elsewhere, where the villagers bake large 
loaves of bread under inverted round iron pots, with 
I embers and slow 7 burning fuel heaped upon them. 
Something like a deep concave pan may be seen in the 
1 paintings of the tombs of Egypt, in their representa- 
tions of the various processes of cookery [see Cook], 
which no doubt bears a resemblance to the one used 
by the Hebrews on this occasion. See Pax. 

Fry th, John. See Fiiith. 

Fuel (Hjrij, oJclah ' , and nbbsrp, maako'leth , both 


FUGITIVE 


087 


FULBEllT 


general terms for anything consumed , whether l>y eat- 
ing or combustion). From the extreme scarcity of 
wood in many places, the Orientals are accustomed to 
use almost every kind of combustible matter for fuel ; 
even the withered stalks of herbs and dowers (Matt.vi, 
28, 30), thorns (Psa. lviii, 9 ; Eccl. vii, 6), and animal 
excrements are thus used (Ezek. iv, 12-15; xv, 4, G; 
xxi, 32 ; Isa. ix, 5, 19). Prof. Ilackett speaks of seeing 
the inhabitants of Lebanon picking up died grass, roots 
and all, for fuel, and says that it even becomes an arti- 
cle of traffic ( [Must . of Script, p. 131). The inhabitants 
of Baku, a port of the Caspian, are supplied with scarce- 
ly any other fuel than that obtained from the naphtha 
and petroleum with which the neighboring country is 
highly impregnated. The Arabs in Egypt draw no 
inconsiderable portion of their fuel, with which they 
cook their victuals, from the exhaustless mummy-pits 
so often described by travellers. Wood or charcoal is 
still, as it was anciently, chiefly employed in the towns 
of Egypt and Syria. The roots of the rothem, a spe- 
cies of the broom-plant (called in the English Bible 
“juniper”), which abounds in the deserts, are regard- 
ed by the Arabs as yielding the best charcoal (Job 
xxx, 4; Psa. cxx, 5). Although the coal of the an- 
cients was that obtained from charring wood (but fos- 
sil coal from Liguria and Elis was occasionally used 
by smiths, Theophrastus, Frag, ii, Gl, edit. Schneider), 
yet the inhabitants of Palestine now to some extent 
use anthracite coal, which crops out in some parts of 
Lebanon (Kitto, Phgs. Ilist. p. G7). See Coal. Wood, 
however, is their chief article of fuel, especially at Je- 
rusalem, and it is largely brought from the region of 
Hebron (Tobler, Denkbldtter aus Jerusalem , p. 180). 
See AVood. As chimneys are but little known in 
the East, apartments are warmed in cold weather 
by means of pans, chafing-dishes, or braziers of va- 
rious kinds, and either of metal or earthen-ware, which 
are set in the middle of the room after the fire of 
wood which it contains has been allowed to burn 
for some time in the open air, till the flame and 
smoke have passed away. Charcoal is also extensive- 
ly employed for the same purpose (Jer. xxxvi, 22). 
Grates are not known even where chimneys are found, 
but the fuel is burnt on the hearth, or against the back 
of the chimney. In cottages, a fire of wood or animal 
dung is frequently burnt upon the floor, either in the 
middle of the room or against one of the ‘side walls, 
with an opening above for the escape of the smoke. 
It is also common to have a lire in a pit sunk in the 
floor, and covered with a mat or carpet, so as not to be 
distinguished from any other portion of the floor. In 
all cases where wood is scarce, animal dung is used for 
fuel in the East. Cow-dung is considered much pref- 
erable to any other, but all animal dung is considered 
valuable (Ezek. iv, 15). AATien collected it is made 
into thin cakes, which are stuck against the sunny 
side of t he houses, giving them a curious and rather 
unsightly appearance. AA r hen it is quite dry and falls 
off, it is stored away in heaps for future use. It is 
much used for baking, being considered preferable to 
any other fuel for that purpose. See File. 

Fugitive is the rendering in the A. Y. of the fol- 
lowing lleb. terms: “3, na ( wavering ), a rover (Gen. 
iv, 12, 14; elsewhere “wander,” etc.); pedit' 

(one that lias escaped , as often rendered), a refugee 
(Judg. xii, 4); 223, nopheT (falling, as usually ren- 
dered, i. e. away to the enemy), a deserter (2 Kings 
xxv, 11); HH2'3, mihracli (lit. a breaking away, i. e. 
flight), fugitives (only in the plur. and Ezek. xvii, 21) ; 

beriach (from the same root as the last^prop. a 
bolt , as often rendered, hence a prince ; but here per- 
haps simply a breaker away), a fugitive (Isa. xv, 5). 

Fuh-he, sometimes spelled Fohi, is not unfrequently 
confounded with Fo, the Chinese Buddha, from whom, 
however, he was separated by centuries, and with whose 


religious teachings those of Fnh-he had nothing in com- 
mon. Euh-he is the reputed founder of Chinese civ- 
ilization, having “established social order, instituted 
marriage, and taught the use of writing” among that 
people. lie is alleged to have been born in the prov- 
ince of Slum zv, and to have reigned B. C. 2952. It is 
not probable, however, that matters of this kind con- 
cerning him can be determined with any tolerable ac- 
curacy. According to Chinese tradition, the first man 
who was created was Pwanko, or Animated Chaos, who 
was “succeeded by three sovereigns, styled Heaven 
Emperor, Earth Emperor, and Alan Emperor, or Heav- 
en, Earth, and Man, the three powers of nature, and 
the triplification of the Great Extreme, or Supreme 
L T nit.” This first creation was destroyed by a deluge. 
AVhen this had subsided, the first man who reappeared 
was Euh-he. He issued with his wife and six children 
from the “ sacred circle.” “ Fuh-he,” says the Chinese 
text, “is the first [who appears] at each opening and 
spreading out” [of the universe]. Thus Fuh-he is but 
the reappearing of Pwanko, and, as he escaped from 
the deluge, he has many of the characteristics of Noah. 

His Writings. — The Chinese were originally worship- 
1 pers of the heavenly bodies. Fnh-he reduced their re- 
ligious notions to a philosophical system. He was the 
author of the most ancient of the Chinese canonical 
! books, called Yih-King , “The Book of Changes,” an 
“expanded form of ancient and recondite speculations 
on the nature of the universe in general, the harmo- 
nious action of the elements, and the periodic changes 
of creation.” It is based on some eight peculiar dia- 
[ grams called Kwci. In the hands of the commentators 
this “ cosmological essay” became a “ standard treatise 
| on ethical philosophy.” The following summary of 
the Yih-King, or Y King, is given by Faber, Origin of 
Pagan Idolatry, i, 21G : “ The Book of Y received its 
name from the mystery of which it treats, the mystery 
| being hieroglyphically represented by a figure resem- 
bling the Greek Y or Roman Y. It teaches that the 
1 heaven and the earth had a beginning, and therefore 
| the human race; that of the heaven and earth all ma- 
I- terial things were formed, then male and female, then 
; husband and wife. The Great Term (as they call it) 
is the Great Unity and the Great Y. Y has neither 
body nor figure, and all that has body and figure was 
made by that which has neither body nor figure. The 
Great Term, or the Great Unity, comprehends Three, 
and the One is Three, and the Three One. Tao is life. 
The first lias produced the second, and the two have 
produced the third, and the three have produced all 
things. He whom the spirit perceivcth, and whom 
the eye cannot see, is called Y.” — Morrisson, Chinese 
Disc. vol. i, pt. i, p. 92, 93; Du liable, Descriptio7i de 
V Empire de la Chine ; Journal of Asiatic So<i<iy (185G), 
xvi, 403, 404 ; Faber, Origin of Pagan Idolatry , i, 246 ; 
Hardwick, Christ and other Masters, ii, 17, 18; Legge, 
Life and Teachings of Confucius (Philadelphia) ; Gtitz- 
laiff, Chinese History, i. 119. (J. T. G.) 

Fulbert, bishop of Chartres, one of the most emi- 
nent and learned prelates of the 11th century. The 
place of his birth is unknown. He was probably born 
about A.D. 950, in Italy, but educated in France 
About A.D. 990 he commenced a school at Chartres, 

■ where he continued his instructions for some time, and 
| with such renown that his fame for learning spread to 
I the most distant parts of the kingdom. Many of the 
| best scholars of those times were Fulbert’s pupils, 
and he contributed largely to the revival of literature. 
Bercngar of Tours was one of his pupils, and king 
[ Robert was his patron and friend. His pupils always 
| spoke of him with affection and veneration. He was 
not “satisfied with imparting to his scholars all possi- 
ble knowledge, but he regarded it of the greatest mo- 
ment to take care for the welfare of their souls. One 
of Bercngar’ s fellow-students at that time, named Adel- 
mann, in a letter written at a later period, of which 
j letter we shall have occasion to speak on a future page, 


FULCIIERIUS 


G88 


FULDA 


reminded him of those hearty conversations which they 
had at eventide, while walking solitarily with their 
preceptor in the garden, how he spoke to them of their 
heavenly country, and how sometimes, unmanned by 
his feelings, interrupting his words with tears, he ad- 
jured them by those tears to strive with all earnestness 
to reach that heavenly home, and for the sake of this 
to beware, above all things, of that which might lead 
them from the way of truth handed down from the fa- 
thers’* (Neander, Church Ilist., Torrey’s transl., iii, 502, 
where Adelmann’s letter is cited). A.D. 1007 he was 
ordained bishop of Chartres, and died in 1029. It is 
said that he was the first who introduced the celebra- 
tion of the festival of the Virgin’s Nativity in France : | 
it is certain that he was a zealous upholder of her lion- j 
or, since l.e built the church of Chartres to her praise. 
His writings consist of 134 Epistohe: — Tractatus centra 
Juderos: — Scrmones: — Carmina, etc. According to 
bishop Cosin, his doctrine on the Eucharist -was alto- 
gether conformable to that of the primitive Church ; 
but his first epistle (the fifth in Migne) to Adeodatus 
teaches transubstantiation. Yet his language on the 
Eueharist is sufficiently indefinite to have probably led 
his pupil Bercngar (q.v.) to his more scriptural and 
spiritual views of that sacrament. His works were 
edited by Masson (Paris, 1585), by Yilliers (“in bad 
faith,” Mosheim, Par. 1008, 8vo), and in the Bib. Max. 
Putr. xviii, 1. They are given in most complete form 
in Migne, Patrol. Latina , t. 141, where also several bi- 
ographies of Fulbert are collected. See Oudin, Snipt. 
Eccl. ii, 519 ; Ceillier, Auteurs Sacrls (Paris, I860), xiii, 
78; Dupin, Eccl. 11 Viters, ix, 1 sq. ; Mosheim, Church 
Hist. cent, xi, pt. ii, eh. ii, § 31, n. C5; Neander, Ch. 
Hist, iii, 470, 502 ; Clarke, Succession of Sacred Litera- 
ture. 

FulcPerir s, Carnoeensis ( Foncher de Chartres ), 
a mediaeval French priest and historian, was born at 
Chartres in 1059, and died in 1127 at Jerusalem, whith- 
er he had gone on the first Crusade (1096) as chap- 
lain to Baldwin, whom he followed in all his expedi- 
tions. 11 is Jlistoire de Jerusalem , continued to the 
year of his death, embraces the greater part of the 
events of the Crusade from the council at Clermont 
(1095), and is especially important as being a record 
of such facts only as himself or other eye-witnesses 
could verify. It w\ns published by Bongars in Beiueil 
des Historiens de 1 1 Cro'sade , and in a fuller and cor- 
rected form by Duchesne in Historiens de Erance (vol. . 
iv), and in the Historiens des Croisades published by 
the Academy of Inscriptions and Belles-Lettres. — 
Iloefer, Nom\ Blog. Generate, xviii, 282-0; Jlistoire 
Litteraire de la Erance , t. xi. (J. W. M.) 

Fulco (Foulqves, Fulk) of Neuilly, one of the 
most popular preachers of the Middle Ages, was born 
in the second Half of the 12th century. “ lie was one 
of the ordinary, ignorant, worldly-minded ecclesias- 
tics, the priest and parson of a country town not far 
from Paris. Afterwards he experienced a change ; 
and as he had before neglected his flock, and injured 
them by his had example, so now he sought to build 
them up by his teaching and example.” Feeling his 
lack of education for the ministry, “he went on week- 
days to Paris, and attended the lectures of Peter Can- 
tor, a theologian distinguished for his peculiar scriptu- 
ral bent and his tendency to practical reform; and of 
the knowledge here acquired he availed himself by 
elaborating it into sermons, w hich he preached on Sun- 
days to his flock. These sermons were not so much 
distinguished for profoundness of thought as for their 
adaptation to the common understanding and to the 
occasions of practical life. At first neighboring cler- 
gymen invited him to preach before their congrega- 
tions. Next he wns called to Paris, and he preached 
not only in churches, but also in t he public places. 
Professors, students, people of all ranks and classes, 
flocked to bear him. I11 a coarse cowl, girt about 


wdth a thong of leather, he itinerated as a preacher of 
repentance through France, and fearlessly denounced 
the reigning vices of learned and unlearned, high and 
low. His words often wrought such deep compunc- 
tion that people scourged themselves, threw” them- 
selves on the ground before him, confessed their sins 
before all, and declared themselves ready to do anv- 
thing he might direct in order to reform their lives, 
and to redress the wrongs which they had done. Usu- 
rers restored hack the interest they had taken ; those 
who, in times of scarcity, had stored up large quanti- 
ties of grain to sell again at a greatly advanced price, 
threw' open their granaries. In such times he Irc- 
I quently exclaimed, 1 Give food to him who is perishing 
, with hunger, or else thou perishest thyself.’ He an- 
( nouneed to the corn-dealers that before the coming 
harvest they would be forced to sell cheap their stored- 
up grain, and cheap it soon became in eonsequenee of 
his own annunciation. Multitudes of abandoned wom- 
en, who lived on the -wages of sin, were converted by 
him. For some he obtained husbands; for others he 
founded a nunnery. He exposed the impure morals 
of the clergy; and the latter, seeing the finger of ev- 
ery man pointed against them, were obliged to sepa- 
rate from their concubines. A curse that fell fiom 
I his lips spread alarm like a thunderbolt. People 
whom he so addressed were seen to fall like epileptics, 

■ foaming at the mouth and distorted w ith convulsions. 
Such appearances promoted the faith in the supernat- 
ural power of his words. Sick persons were brought 
to him from all quarters, w ho expected to 1 e healed 
by Ids touch — l y his blessing; and wonderful stories 
I were told of the miracles thus wrought. . . . The per- 
sonal influence of this man, who stood prominent nei- 
ther by his talents nor his official station, gave birth 
to a new life of the clergy, a greater zeal in discharg- 
ing the duties of the prcdicatorial < ffice and of the 
cure of souls, l oth in France and in England. Young 
men who, in the study of a dialectic theology at the 
University of Paris, had forgotten the obligation to 
j care for the salvation of souls, were touched by the 
discourses of this unlearned itinerant, and trained by 
his instrumentality into zealous preachers. lie form- 
ed and left behind him a peculiar school ; he sent his 
j disciples over to England, and his example had a stim- 
ulating effect even on such as had never come into 
personal contact with him. ‘Many,’ says Jacob of 
Vitry, ‘inflamed with the fire of love, and incited by 
his example, began to teach and to preach, and to lead 
not a few to repentance, and to snatch the fouls of sin- 
ners frem destruction’*’ (Neander, Church Hist.. Tor- 
rey’s transl., iv, 209). "When Innocent III proclaimed 
the fourth Crusade, A.D. 1198, Fulco devoted himself 
wholly to pi caching in its favor, and among all the 
“orators who blew” the sacred trumpet” he was the 
most successful. “ Diehard of England was satiated 
with the glory and misfortunes of his first adventure, 
and he presumed to deride the exhortations of Fulco, 
who was not abashed in the presence of kings. ‘ You 
advise me,’ said Plantagcnet, ‘to dismiss my three 
daughters, pride, avarice, and incontinence. I be- 
queath them to the most deserving: my pride to the 
Knights Templars, my avarice to the monks of Cis- 
teaux, and my incontinence to the prelates.’ But the 
preacher was heard and obeyed by the great vassals” 
(Gibbon, Beeline and Fall, Harper’s edition, vi, 60). 
Fulco did not live to see the results of the Crusade ; 
he died at Neuilly A.D. 1201. — Yillehardouin, Ilist.de 
la ConquCte de Constantinople (transl. by T. Smith, Lon- 
don, 1829, 8vo) ; Iloefer, Four. Biog. (liner, xviii, 508 ; 
Milmnn, Latin Christianity. I k. ix, ch. vii ; Gicsclcr, 
Ch. Ili+mp per. iii, § 80; lluiter, Gesrhichte Pabst In- 
nocent's III (Hamburg, 1834), vol. i ; Herzog, Real-En - 
cyllop . xix, 516.- 

Fulda, Monastery of, a celebrated convent, es- 
tablished in 744 by Boniface, and one of his pupils 
named Sturm. The latter, a young man of good fan?- 


689 


FULGENTIUS 


FULDA MANUSCRIPT 


ilv, having decided on becoming a hermit, was sent by 
Boniface to search out a spot in the forest of Buchonia, 
secure from the inroads of the Saxons. Sturm set out 
with two companions, and finally selected a plot of 
land on the banks of the Fulda, which was given them 
bv duke Karlmann. In January, 744, Sturm and sev- 
en companions took possession, and immediately com- 
menced improving and building. The convent was 
organized on the plan of Monte Cassino, after the rule 
of St. Benedict, and Sturm became its first abbot. In 



mates numbering 400 before Sturm’s death in 779. Its 
prosperity still increased under Sturm’s successor, 
Ban gulf. Both Pepin the Short and Charlemagne 
were very liberal towards this convent, which in its 
turn did great good in disseminating the knowledge 
of agriculture as well as literature throughout the sur- 
rounding country. Its celebrated theological school 
was particularly prosperous under Rabanus Maurus, 
who afterwards became abbot of Fulda. There were 
twelve seniors or sub-instructors, and the scholars 
were instructed in grammar, rhetoric, dialectics, the- 
ology, and the German language. Nor were either 
fine or mechanical arts overlooked, for the convent 
produced both clever artists and talented artisans. 
Under the abbot Werner (968 to 982), Fulda became 
the first among the abbeys of Germany and France. 
Otto I named its abbots arch-chancellors of the em- 
pire. In 1831 the duke John of Ziegenhein led the 
citizens of Fulda to assault the convent, but the assail- 
ants were overpowered and their leaders put to death. 
The Reformation at first made an impression in the 
convent, but abbot Balthasar succeeded in 3573 in 
checking the progress of evangelical doctrines within 
its walls. In 1631 Fulda was subjected to Sweden, 
and an attempt was made to introduce Protestantism 
into the district, but, after the defeat of Nordlingcn, the 
Roman Catholic abbots resumed their sway. In 1809, 
Fulda, which six years before had become a principal- 
ity of the prince of Orange, was by Napoleon I an- 
nexed to the grand-duchy of Frankfort, but Prussia 
finally joined it in 1815 to the electorate of Hessc-Cas- 
sel, of which it remained a part until the incorporation 
of that country, in 1866, with Prussia. See Brower, 
Aniiq. Fuld. lib. iv (Antwerp, 16) ; Dronke, Traditiones 
et Antiqnitates Fnldenses (Fulda, 1844) ; Niedner, Zeit - 
sekrift f. hist . Theol. (1846) ; Herzog, Real- Ency klop. 
iv, 624 ; Me Lear, Christian Missions in the Middle Ages, 
p. 214. 

Fulda Manuscript ( Codex Fuldensis ), one of the 
best copies of the early Latin version, containing the 
whole N. T., written by order of Victor, bishop of Ca- 
pua, A.D. 546, and now in the Abbey of Fulda, in 
Hesse-Cassel. The Gospels are arranged in a kind of 
hannony. It was described by Schaunat ( Vindemice 
Liter drive Collectio , 1723, p. 218), collated by Lachmann 
and Buttmann in 1839 for the Latin portion of the N. 
T., and has been edited by Ern. Ranke (Marb. 1867, 
8 vo)— Scrivener, Introd. p. 264 ; Tregelles, in Horne’s 
Introd. iv, 254. See Latin Versions. 

Fulfil (usually mille', 7 t\t]q 6 oj, to Jill up), 

generally used with reference to the accomplishment of 
prophecy. It is used in the O. T. with respect to va- 
rious kinds of prophecies, such as are imminent (e. g. 
the death of Jeroboam’s child, 1 Kings xiv, 17), or dis- 
tant (c. g. that referring to the rebuilding of Jericho, 
1 Kings xvi, 34) ; those that are accomplished in a near 
as well as in a remote event [see Double Sense], 
those that relate to some similar typical occurrence, 
class, or character [sec Type], proverbial expressions 
[see Proverb], and especially predictions relating to 
the Messiah. Several distinguished scholars consider 
that some texts in the N. T. containing references to 
the 0. T., and introduced by the formulas, “All this 
was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of 
I I F. — X * 


the Lord by the prophet (Matt, i, 22 ; ii, 15) ; “ For 
thus it is written by the prophet” (Matt, ii, 5); “ Then 
was fulfilled that which was spoken” (Matt, ii, 17), may 
be mere allegations, without its being intended to de- 
clare that the literal fulfilment took place on the occa- 
sion described. Even if those passages could not be 
applied to certain events, otherwise than by accommo- 
dation or illustration, the phrases which introduce them 
will easily bend to that explanation; for it may be 
shown, by examples from the Rabbins and from the 
earliest Syriac writers, that in the East similar modes 
of speech have always been in use. See Accommo- 
dation. It is to be observed, however, concerning 
the formulas 11 that it might le fulfilled “ then was ful- 
filled etc., when used with reference to the fulfilment 
of prophecy in the New Testament, the events are not 
to be understood as happening merely for the purpose 
of making good the predictions, but rather that in or 
by this event was fulfilled the prophecy. The ambi- 
guity in the understanding of the first of these formu- 
las arises from what arc technically called the telle and 
the ecbatic uses of the Greek particle 7 va. It is also 
to be noted that the individuals or nations actually en- 
gaged in fulfilling prophecy often had no such inten- 
tion, or even any knowledge that they were doing so. 
See Stuart, in Biblical Repos. 1835, p. 86 ; Woods, Lec- 
tures on Inspiration, p. 26; Pye Smith, Pnnciples of 
Prophetic Interpretation , p. 51, and others. Some, how- 
ever (c. g. Davidson, Sacred Hermeneutics, p. 471 sq.), 
contend that the phrase 1 iva i rXijpio&ij, “that it might 
be fulfilled,” and similar expressions in both the Heb. 
and Gr. Scriptures, always designate an intentional 
and definite fulfilment of an express prediction (Meth. 
Quar. Rev. April, 1867, p. 194). See Prophecy. 

Fulgentius, St., Fabius Claudius Gordi- 
anus, bishop of Ruspe, called “the Augustine of the 
6th century,” was born at Telepta (Leptis), in the 
province of Bj'zaccna, North Africa, A.D. 468. His 
father dying in his childhood, the care of his education 
fell on his mother, who had him carefully instructed 
in the Greek language. It is said that when a boy he 
could repeat the whole of Homer. In early manhood 
he was made procurator of his native place, but, disgust- 
ed with the world, he threw up his office and devoted 
himself to the monastic life, against his mother’s will, 
lie first entered a monastery at Byzacena, but in the 
disorder of the times he was compelled to abandon it, 
and retired to Sicca, -where he was severely treated by 
the Arians. Afterwards he resolved to go into Egypt, 
but was dissuaded by Eulalius, bishop of Syracuse, be- 
cause the monks of the East had separated from the 
Catholic Church. He went from Sicily to Rome about 
A.D. 500, and then returned to Africa and founded 
a new monastery. The see of Ruspe becoming va- 
cant, lie was ordained bishop, much against his will, 
in the year 504. “ Though become a bishop, he did 

not change cither his habit or manner of living, but 
used the same austerities and abstinence as before. He 
defended his faith at once boldly and respectfully 
against his Arian sovereign. lie speaks thus to the 
king in an apologetic treatise which the monarch him- 
self had called for (Lib. Hi ad Trasimundum) : ‘ If I 
freely defend my faith, as far as God enables me, no 
reproach of obstinacy should be made against me, 
since I am neither forgetful of my own insignificance 
nor of the king’s dignity ; and I know well that I am 
to fear God and honor the king, according to Rom. 
xiii, 7 ; 1 Pet. ii, 17. He certainly pays you true 
honor who answers your questions as the true faith 
requires.’ After praising the king in that he, the 
monarch of a yet uncivilized people, showed so much 
zeal for the knowledge of scriptural truth, he says : 

‘ You know well that he who seeks to know the truth 
strives for far higher good than lie who seeks to ex- 
tend the limits of a temporal kingdom.’ He was ban- 
ished twice to Sardinia. ‘ There he was the spiritual 
guide of many other exiles, who united themselves to 


FULGENTIUS 


090 


FULLER 


him. From hence he imparted counsel, comfort, and | 
confirmation in the faith to his forsaken Christian | 
* friends in Africa, and to those from other countries 
who sought his advice in spiritual things and in per- 
plexities of the heart’ ” (Neander, Light in Dark Places , 
X. Y. 1853, 31 sq.). After the death of Thrasiinund, 
he and all the other expelled bishops were recalled by I 
Hilderic, son of Thrasiinund (A. I). 523). Fulgentius 
thenceforward enjoyed the quiet possession of his see ! 
till A.D. 533, when he died, ‘‘full of honor, and re- 
nowned for piety, learning, and every Christian vir- 
tue.” lie is commemorated in the Church of Koine as 
a saint on the 1st of January. His writings are mostly | 
controversial, against Arianism and Pelagianism. The I 
most important are, against Arianism : Libri Hi ad Tra- 
slmmulum .- — De Trinitate Liber: — Contra Serinonem Fas- 
iidiosi A riant ; against Pelagianism : Libri 'l'res ad Mo- 
il enunn : — De Veritate Praelestinationis ct gratia Dei : — 
Liber de Prccdestinatione et Gratia. Fulgentius was led 
to write against Pelagianism by the writings of Fanstus 
of Khegium (q. v.), which were laid before him for his 
judgment. lie explained “ the system of Augustine 
with logical consistency, but in doing this he carefully 
avoided the harsh points of the Predestination view of 
the matter. He severely censured those who talked 
of a predestination to sin. lie spoke, indeed, of a two- 
fold predestination (pnedestinatio duplex), but by this 
he understood either the election to eternal happiness 
of those who were good by the grace of God, or the 
predestination of those who were sinners by their own 
choice to deserved punishment” (Neander, Ch.IIist. ii, 
650. See also Ilagcnbaeh, History of Doctrines , § 114). 
Editions of his writings: llasel, 1556, 1566, 1587 ; Ant- 
werp, 1574; Cologne, 1618 ; Lyons, 1633, 1652, 1671; 
best, that of Paris, 1684, 4to ; reprinted at Venice, 
1742, fol., and in Migne, Patrologia Latina , t. Ixv. 
See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 627 ; Wetzer u.Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. iv, 249; Ceillier, Auteurs S acres (Paris, 
1682), xi, 1 sq. ; Dupin, Eccles. Writers , v, 13 sq. ; 
Fleury, Ilist. Eccles. Lb. xxx, xxxi. 

Fulgentius, Ferranclus, a friend and pupil of 
Fulgentius of Kuspe, who with him partook of exile in 
Sardinia. On his return to Carthage he became a 
deacon, A.D. 523. lie died A.D. 551. lie was one 
of the first to declare against the condemnation of the 
Three Chapters. He also took part in the controversy 
at that time agitating the Church whether it was or- 
thodox to say, “ One person of the Trinity has suffer- 
ed. ” Fulgentius defended this expression, but recom- 
mended to add “in the flesh which he assumed.” Of 
his writings, we have a Breviatio Ccmonum (An Abridg- 
ment of the Ecclesiastical Caucus), containing 232 can- 
ons of the councils of Ancyra, Laodicea, Nice, Antioch, 
Gangra, and Sardica, the canons of which last council, 
it is most probable, he took from Dionysius Exiguus. 
It was published by the Jesuit Chifilet at Dijon (1649, 
4to). lie left also a number of Epistles , which, with 
the Canons , may be found in Bib. Max. Pair, ix, 475, 
and in Migne, Patrol. Latina , vols. Ixv, lxvii, Ixviii. 
A work against the Arians and other heretics was first 
published by A. Alai (jColLnouv. t. iii.) — Herzog, Peal - 
Encyklop. iv, 626; Wetzer n. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. iv, 
250 ; Cave, Hist. Liter. ; Clarke, Succession of Sac. Lit. i 

Fulke, William, D.D., a famous Puritan divine, 1 
was born in London, and went in 1555 to St. John's 
College, Cambridge, of which he became fellov r in 
1564. Tie spent six years at Clifford’s Inn, studying 
law r , but preferred letters, and especially theology. 
“He took orders, but, being suspected of Puritanism, 
as he was the intimate friend of Cartwright, then pro- 
fessor of divinity, he was expelled from college. The 
earl of Leicester presented him in 1571 to the living 
of Warlev, in Essex, and two years after to*Keding- 
ton, in Suffolk, lie afterwards took big degree of 
D.D. at Cambridge, and, as chaplain, accompanied the 
earl of Lincoln when he went as ambassador to France, 


and on his return he v-as made master of Pembroke 
Hall, and Margaret professor. He died in 1589. “ In 
force of argument and criticism he was one of the 
ablest divines of his time, and one of the principal op- 
ponents of the Roman Church” (Darling). His writ- 
ings, which were very numerous, l oth in Latin and 
English, were directed chiefly against Popery. The 
most important of them are the / themes Translation of 
the New Testament, and the auihonzed English Version , 
with the Arguments of Bookes, Chapters , and Annota- 
tions of the Rhemists , and Dr. Fu'ke's Confutation of all 
such Arguments, Glosses , and Annotations (first edition, 
1580; often reprinted; last. ed. hv I lartshorne, Cam- 
bridge, 1843, 8vo ; New r York, 1^34, 8vo) : — Defence of 
the sincere and true Translation of the Scriptures, against 
Gregory Martin (new edit, by Parker Society, Camb. 
1843, 8vo) : — Ansicers to Stapleton, Martiedl, and San- 
ders (on the controversy with Rome, reprinted by the 
Parker Society, Cambridge, 1848, 8vo). 

Fullenius, Bernardus, was born in 1602. He 
pursued his collegiate course at the Universit}* of Fra- 
neker. He devoted himself specially to the study of 
the Hebrew and mathematics. His proficiency in 
both studies was great. When only twenty-seven he 
was appointed to fill the chair made vacant by the 
death of the distinguished Orientalist, Sixtinus Ama- 
ma. He accepted the appointment, and in 1630 he 
entered upon the discharge of its duties. For seven 
years he tilled the office with fidelity and acceptance. 
The professorship of mathematics was then tendered 
to him, and the celebrated Cocceius appointed him his 
successor in the department of Oriental literature. 
He was one of the committee appointed by the Synod 
of Dort to revise the new translation of the New Tes- 
tament. An edition of J. Drum Commentaria ad li- 
, brum Cohcleih Salomonis ct Jobi v T as brought out under 
' his editorial supervision, and with prefaces prepared 
| by him. See Glasius, Godgeleenl Nederland , i Deel, 

I biz. 479; G. Brandt, Jlistorie der Reformat ie, etc., iii 
| Deel, biz. 53 (Rotterdam, 1704). (J. P.W.) 

Fuller (Cj2, kobes', from to tread [comp. 

Gesenius, Monum. Than. p. 181] ; yveupive). The art 
| of the fuller is beyond doubt of great antiquity, and 
seems to have reached at an early period a compara- 
tive degree of perfection. Very scanty materials, 

; however, exist for tracing its progress, or for ascer- 
| taining exactly, in any particular age or country (see 
Pliny, vii, 57), what substances were employed in the 
art, and what methods were resorted to for the purpose 
of making them effectual. At the transfiguration our 
Saviour's robes are said to have been white, “so as no 
fuller on earth could white them'’ (Mark ix, 3). Else- 
where we read of “ fullers’ soap” (Mai. iii, 2), and of 
“the fullers’ field” (2 Kings xviii, 17). Of the pro- 
cesses followed in the art of cleaning cloth and the va- 
rious kinds of stuff' among the Jews we have no direct 
knowledge. In an early part of the operation they 
seem to have trod the cloths with their feet (Gesenius, 
Thes. p. 1261), as the Hebrew A in-Roge l, or En-rogel, 
literally Foot-fountain, has been rendered, on Rabbin- 
ical authority, “ Fullers’ fountain,” on the ground 
that the fullers trod the cloths there with their feet 
(comp. 1 lost, Marokko, p. 116). They were also rubbed 
with the knuckles, as in modern washing (Synes. Ep. 
44 ; compare Euseb. Ilist. Eccl. ii, 1, 2). A subsequent 
operation was probably that of rubbing the cloth on 
an inclined plane, in a mode which is figured in the 
Egyptian paintings (Wilkinson, ii, 106, abridgm.), and 
still preserved in the East. It seems from the above 
notices that the trade of the fullers, as causing offen- 
sive smells, and also as requiring space for drying 
clothes, was carried on at Jerusalem outside the city 
(comp. Martial, vi, 93; Plaut. Asin. v, 2, 57). A full- 
ers' tou n (oflicina fullonis) is mentioned in the Talmu- 
dical writers (Midrash, Kohel. xci, 2) by the name of 
ii-vrSil “ house of maceration.” So far as it is 


FULLER’S SOAP 


G91 


FULLER’S GATE 



Ancient Egyptian Fuller.-*, 1, 2: 


Inclined tables; 


ters’ clay or marl (Hoffmann, Ilandb. d. Min- 
eral, II, ii, ‘230 sq.), with which the poor at 
Home rubbed their clothes on festival days to 
make them appear brighter (Pliny, xxxi, 10, 
§ 118; xxxv, 17). Sulphur, which was used 
at Pome for discharging positive color (Plin. 
xxxv, 57), was abundant in some parts of 
Palestine, but there is no evidence to show 
that it was used in the fullers 1 trade. The 
powerful cleansing properties of boritli or soap 
are employed by the prophet Malachi as a 
figure under which to represent the prospec- 
tive results of Messiah’s appearance (Mai. iii, 
2). See Beckmann, Ilist. of Inv. ii, 92, 10G, 


t . t c. The water . 

running otf into the trough below ; d. A stone used for rubbing the edit. Bohn ; Saalsehiitz, i, 3, 14, 32 ; ii, 14, G; 
cloth; /.Jars of soap. Smith, Diet . of Classical Antiq. s. v. Fullo.- 

Smith, s. v. See Soap. 


mentioned in Scripture, fulling appears to have con- 
sisted chiefly in cleansing garments and whitening 
them (compare JElian, Yar. Ilist.v, 5). The use of 
white garments, and also the feeling respecting their 
use for festal and religious purposes, may be gathered 
from various passages: Eccl. ix, 8; Dan. vii, 9; Isa. 
lxiv, 6; Zech. iii, 3, 5 ; 2 Sam. vi, 14; 1 Cliron. xv, 
27; Mark ix, 3; Rev. iv, 4; vi, 11; vii, 9; compare 
Mishna, Taanith , iv, 8 ; see also Statius, Stir, i, 2, 237 ; 
Ovid, Fast, i, 79; Claudian, Ds Land. Stil. iii, 289. 
This branch of the trade w r as perhaps exercised by 
other persons than those whd carded the wool and 
smoothed the cloth when woven (Mishna, Baba Kama , 
i, x, 10). In applying the marks used to distinguish 
cloths sent to be cleansed, fullers were desired to be 
careful to avoid the mixtures forbidden by the law 
(Lev. xix, 19; Deut. xxii, 11 ; Mishna, Massed. Kilaim , 
ix, 10). Colored cloth was likewise fulled (Mishna, 
Skabb. xix, 1). See Schottgen, Triturm et fullonim an - 
tiquitates (2d ed. Lips. 17G3). — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. 
v. See Handicraft. 

Fuller’s Soap (Z"'.L : ZZ\: r.^a, borith ' mekabbe- 
shini , alkali of those treading cloth, i. e. washers' pot- 
ash; Sept, tv ota Tr\vv6vT(x)v\ some alkaline or sapo- 
naceous substance mixed with the water in the tubs 
used for stamping or beating cloth. Two substances 
of the nature are mentioned in Scripture: *ir5, nei- 
ther, nitre ( vtrpov , nitrum , Prov. xxv, 20; Jer. ii, 22), 
and rnna, boritli , soap (grot a, herba fullonim , herba 
borith , Mai. iii, 2). Nitre is found in Egypt and in 
Syria, and vegetable alkali was also obtained there 
from the ashes of certain plants, probably Salsola kali 
(Gesenius, Thesaur . Ifeb. p. 246; Pliny, xxxi, 10, 4G; 
llasselquist, p. 275 ; Burckhardt, Syria , p. 214). The 
juice also of some saponaceous plant, perhaps Gypsa - 
phila struthium , or Saponaiia officinalis, was some- 
times mixed with the water for the like purpose, and 
may thus be regarded as representing the soap of 
Scripture. Other substances also are mentioned as 
being employed in cleansing, which, together with al- 
kali, seem to identify the Jewish with the Roman pro- 
cess (Pliny, xxxv, 57), as urine and chalk ( creta cimo- 
lia), and bean-water, i. e. bean-meal mixed with water 
(Mishna, Shabb. ix, 5 ; Xiddah , ix, G). Urine, both of 
men and of animals, was regularly collected at Rome 
for cleansing cloths (Plin. xxxviii, 26, 48 ; Athen. xi, 
p. 484; Mart, ix, 93; Plautus, Asin. v, 2, 57); and it 
seems not improbable that its use in the fullers’ trade 
at Jerusalem may have suggested the coarse taunt of 
Rabshakeh during his interview with the deputies 
of Ilezekiah in the highway of the fullers’ field (2 
Kings xviii, 27); but Schottgen thinks it doubtful 
whether the Jews made use of it in fulling {Antiq. full. 
§ 9). The process of whitening garments was per- 
formed by rubbing into them chalk or earth of some 
kind Creta cimolia (cimolite) was probably 

the earth most frequently used (“cretas fullonue,” 
Pliny, xvii, 4; compare Theophr. Charact. 11). The 
whitest sort of earth for this purpose is a white pot- 


FULLER’S FIELD (OZIZ ilTJ, sedeh" kobes' ; 
Sept. ctypbg rou yvatystog, or Kvatystog ; Vulg. ager f id- 
ioms'), a spot near Jerusalem (2 Kings xviii, 17 ; Isa. 
xxxvi, 2; vii, 3) so close to the walls that a person 
speaking from there could be heard on them (2 Kings 
xviii, 17, 2G). It is only incidentally mentioned in 
these passages, as giving its name to a “ highway” 
(n|DZ — an embanked road, Gesen. Thes. p. 957 b), 
“in” (Z) or “on” (bs, A. V. “in”) which highway 
was the “conduit of the upper pool.” The “end” 
of the conduit, whatever that was, appears to 
have been close to the road (Isa. vii, 3). In consider- 
ing the nature of this spot, it should be borne in mind 
that sadeh , “field,” is a term almost invariably con- 
fined to cultivated arable land, as opposed to unre- 
claimed ground. See Topographical Terms. One 
resort of the fullers of Jerusalem would seem to have 
been below the city on the south-east side. See En- 
rogel. But Rabshakeh and his “great host” can 
hardly have approached in that direction. They must 
have come from the north — the only accessible side for 
any body of people — as is certainly indicated by the 
route traced in Isa. x, 28-32 (see Gibeaii); and the 
fuller’s field, from this circumstance, has been located 
by some (Hitzig, zu Jesa. vii, 8; Williams, Holy City , 
ii, 472) on the table-land on the northern side of the 
city, near the Damascus gate. See Fuller’s Monu- 
ment (below). The “pool” and the “conduit” would 
be sufficient reasons for the presence of the fullers, and 
their location would therefore determine that of the 
“field” in question. See Conduit. Oil the other 
hand, Rabshakeh and his companions may have left 
the army and advanced along the east side of Mount 
Moriah to En-rogel, to a convenient place under the 
temple walls for speaking. There can be little doubt, 
however, that the “ upper pool” is the cistern now call- 
ed Birket el-Mamilla, at the head of the Valley of Hin- 
nom, a short distance west of the Yafa gate (Porter, 
Handbook for S. and P. p. 99, 13G). Hezekiah conveyed 
the waters from it by a subterranean aqueduct to the 
west side of the city of David (2 Chron. xxxii, 30). 
The natural course of this aqueduct was along the an- 
cient road to the western gate beside the castle, and 
this v'as the road by which the Assyrian ambassadors 
would doubtless approach the city, coming as they did 
from Lachish. The position of the fuller’s field is 
thus indicated. It lay on the side of the highway 
w*est of the city. See Fuller’s Gate (below). The. 
fullers’ occupation required an abundant supply of 
water, and an open space for drying the clothes. AVe 
may therefore conclude that their “field” was beside, 
or at least not far distant from, the upper pool. — Smith, 
s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. See Giiion. 

FULLER’S GATE {porta fullonis), one of the me- 
diaeval gates on the western side of Jerusalem (Adam- 
nanus, i, 1), thought by Dr. Robinson { Researches , i, 
475) to be the Porta Judicial' ia of Brocardus (ch. viii, 
fin.), in the wall of those days, somewhere over against 


FULLER’S MONUMENT 


092 


FULNESS 


the Churcli of the Holy Sepulchre, leading to Sillo 
(Neby Samwil) and Gibeon, and also the Serb of Ara- 
bian writers (Edrisi, about A.D. 1150, ed Jaubert, i, 
314; “History of Jcrus.” in the Fundgr. dis Orients , 
ii, 129). It seems to have derived its name from lead- 
ing to the Fuller’s Field (Isa. vii, 3). 

FULLER'S MONUMENT Qivrjfia too yva^ioic), a 
conspicuous object mentioned by Josephus in his ac- 
count of the course of the third or outer wall of Jeru- 
salem (I Far, v, 4, 2), as situated near “the tower of 
the corner,” where the wall bent, after passing the 
sepulchres of the kings, to the valley of the Kidron; 
evidently, therefore, at the north-east angle of the an- 
cient city (Strong’s Harm, and Expos, of the Gospel , 
Append, p. 23). Jt does not follow, as Dr. Barclay 
supposes (City of the Great King , p. 25), that the mon- 
ument in question was situated in the Fuller’s Field. 
See Jerusalem. 

Fuller, Andrew, perhaps the most eminent and 
influential of Baptist theologians, was born in 1754, at 
Wicken, Cambridgeshire, England. His opportunities 
for education were scanty, and his subsequent attain- 
ments as a theologian resulted from the activity of a 
mind naturally vigorous working earnestly on no very 
ample materials. He was baptized in 1770, began 
preaching in 1774, and in 1775 became pastor of a 
church in Soham. Ilis doctrinal system at this time 
w ? as unsettled. The prevailing type of opinion then 
prevalent among the Baptists w 7 as an exorbitant Cal- 
vinism, verging to an Antinomian and fatalistic ex- 
treme. It was deemed necessary to a consistent or- 
thodoxy for a preacher to avoid offering freely to all 
men the invitation of the Gospel. Dr. Gill (q. v.) was 
the standard of doctrinal soundness. Fuller states 
that Gill and Bunvan w'ere authors to 'whom he w r as 
much indebted. He gradually found that they did 
not agree, and still more w'as he impressed W’ith the 
practical difference between the accepted teaching and 
the New Testament. In 1776 he became acquainted 
with Messrs. Rvland and Sutcliffe, names to be after- 
wards honorably associated with his in the foreign mis- 
sionary work. The works of the New 7 England theo- 
logians, particularly Edw r ards and Bellamy, confirmed 
him in the view's to which his mind had been tending. 
The change in the spirit of his preaching awakened 
violent opposition. His congregation, however, in- 
creased, and the effects of his doctrine confirmed his 
faith in it. In 1782 he removed to Kettering, which 
was the scene of his labors to the close of life. Here, 
in 1784, he gave deliberate expression to his views in 
the treatise, The Gospel worthy of all Acceptation. In 
the same year he concerted with his friend Sutcliffe a 
meeting for united prayer for the revival of religion 
and the conversion of the world — the origin of the 
“ Monthly Concert.” Out of these counsels grew' the 
missionary movement under the leadership of Carey 
(q. v.), in w hich, as secretary of the Baptist Missionary 
Society, Mr. Fuller bore a laborious and responsible 
part. In 1793 appeared his celebrated treatise, The 
Calvinistic and Sochian Systems compared. Princeton 
College in 1795, and Yale in 1805, conferred upon him 
the degree of D.D., which he modestly declined. lie 
died in 1815. Ilis other w'orks arc, 3. The Gospel its 
own IPiVaess (1800) ; — 4. Dialogues , Essays , and Letters: 
— 5. Exposition of Genesis: — G. The Great Question an- 
swered (1806) : — 7. Strictures on Sandemanianism (1809) : 
— 8. Sermons on various Subjects : — 9. Exposition of the 
Revelation: — 10. Letters on Communion (1815). Ilis 
w ritings are marked by solid force of reasoning, plain- 
ness and simplicity of statement, and an ingenuous 
candor. In reference to his unaffected style, he has 
been called “the Franklin of theology.” Without the 
opportunity to become a critical student of the Scrip- 
tures, he is a better Biblical theologian* than many 
w hose scholarship he could not aspire to. For his the- 
ological position, see the article Calvinism. — B oris, 


with Life prefixed, 5 vols. London, 1831 ; also 1853, 
imp. 8vo ; more complete edition, edited by Belcher, 
3 vols. Pliiladel. (L. E. S.) 

Fuller, Thomas, divine, historian, genius, and 
wit, was a son of the Rev. T. Fuller, minister of Aid- 
winkle, in Northamptonshire, at which place he w r as 
horn in June, 1608. He was educated at Queen’s Col- 
lege, Cambridge, and removed to Sidney College, of 
which he became fellow in 1631. In 1632 he w’as ap- 
pointed minister of St. Bonnet’s parish, Cambridge, 
and acquired great popularity as a pulpit orator. He 
obtained, in the same year, the prebend of Salisbury, 
and afterwards the rectory of Broad Windsor, of both 
of which he was deprived during the Civil War, in con- 
sequence of his activity on the side of the monarch. 
Between 1640 and 1656 he published nearly the w hole 
of his w orks. In 1648 he obtained the living of Wal- 
tham, in Essex, which in 1658 he quitted for that of 
Cranford, in Middlesex. At the Restoration he recov- 
ered the prebend of Salisbury, w*as made D.D. and 
king’s chaplain, and w r as looking forward to a mitre, 
when his prospects were closed by death, August 15, 
1661. Fuller possessed a remarkably tenacious mem- 
ory. He had also a large share of w it and quaint hu- 
mor, which he sometimes allowed to run riot in his 
writings. Among his chief works are, A History of 
the Holy War (Camb. 1640, 2d edit, fol.) : — The Church 
History of Britain (new edit, edited by Nichols , Loud. 
1837, 3 vols. 8vo) : — The History of the University of 
Cambridge (new edit. Loud. 1840, 8vo) : — The History 
of the Worthies of England (new 7 ed. by Nuttall, Loud. 
1840, 3 vols. 8vo) : — Pisgah Sight of Palestine, a His- 
tory of the Old and New Test. (Lond. 1662, fob). Cole- 
ridge says that “Fuller was incomparably the most 
sensible, the least prejudiced great man of an age that 
boasted a galaxy of great men. He is a very volumi- 
nous writer, and yet, in all his numerous volumes on 
so many different subjects, it is scaicely too much to 
say that you will hardly find a page in which some 
one sentence out of even 7 three does not deserve to be 
quoted for itself as a motto or as a maxim.” See 
Rnssell, Memorials of the Life and Works of Fuller 
(Lond. 1844, sm. 8vo) ; Rogers, Fuller's Life and Writ- 
ings ( Edinb . Rev. lxxiv, 328). 

Fullerton, Hitiji Stewart, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, w'as born near Greencastle, Penn., Feb. G, 1805. 
Not long after, bis parents removed to Orange Co., N. 
Y., and in 1815 to Fayette Co., Ohio. He studied one 
year at the Ohio University, and w'as licensed to preach 
in 1830. In 1832 lie accepted a call to the church at 
Chillicothe, where he labored four years, and then re- 
signed from ill health. In 1837 he removed to Salem, 
Ohio, where he remained until his death, Aug. 15, 1862. 
— Wilson, Presbyterian Ilist. Almanac , 1864. 

Fulness, a term variously used in Scripture. (10 
“The fulness of time” is the time when the Messiah 
appeared, which was appointed by God, promised to 
the fathers, foretold by the prophets, expected by the 
Jew's themselves, and earnestly longed for by all the 
faithful: “When the fulness of the time was come, 
God sent his Son,” Gal. iv, 4. (2.) The fulness of 

Christ is the superabundance of grace with which be 
w'as filled: “ Of his fulness have all we received,” 
John i, 1G. And whereas men are said to be filled 
with the Holy Ghost, as John the Baptist, Lake i, 15; 
and Stephen, Acts vi, 5; this differs from the fulness 
of Christ in these three respects: (a.) Grace in others 
is by participation, as the moon hath her light from 
the sun, rivers their waters from the fountain ; but in 
Christ all that perfection and influence which we in- 
clude in that term is originally, naturally, and of him- 
self. (5.) The Spirit is in Christ infinitely and above 
measure, John iii, 34; but in the saints by measure 
according to the gift of God, Eph. iv, 16. (c.) The 

saints cannot communicate their graces to others, 
whereas the gifts of the Spirit are in Christ as a head 


FULVIA 


G93 FUNDAMENTALS 


and fountain, to impart them to his members. “ We 
have received of his fulness,” John i, 16. (3.) It is 

said that “ the fulness of the Godhead dwells in Christ 
bodily,” Col. ii, 9; that is, the whole nature and attri- 
butes of God are in Christ, and that really, essentially, 
or substantially ; and also personally, by nearest un- 
ion; as the soul dwells in the body, so that the same 
person who is man is God also. (4.) The Church is 
called the fulness of Christ, Eph. i, 23. It is the 
Church which makes him a complete and perfect head ; 
for, though he has a natural and personal fulness as 
God, yet as Mediator he is not full and complete with- 
out his mystical body (as a king is not complete with- 
out his subjects), but receives an outward, relative, 
and mystical fulness from his members (Watson, Dic- 
tionary , s. v.). (5.) It is probable that the expression 

fulness of the Godhead , as applied to Christ (Col. i, 19 ; 
ii, 9), contains an allusion to the theories of some spec- 
ulators, who taught that there were “ certain distinct 
beings” (icons as they called them), “ who were suc- 
cessive emanations from the Supreme Being himself,” 
to whom they gave the title of “ the Fulness.” They 
pretended that one of these had assumed human na- 
ture in Jesus Christ It was probably in designed con- 
tradiction to this that the apostle asserts the indwell- 
ing in Jesus “of all the fulness of the Godhead” (Eden). 

Fulvia (the name of a noble Roman family, Grse- 
cized 4>o u\/3<o), a lady of Rome who had embraced 
Judaism, but having been defrauded of a sum of money 
by a Jewish impostor, complained through her hus- 
band Saturninus to the emperor Tiberius, who there- 
upon proscribed the Jews from the city (Josephus, Ant. 
xviii, 3, 5). No contemporary historian notices this 
expulsion, and it seems to have been but of temporary 
and partial force, different from the later and more for- 
mal edict of Acts xviii, 2. See Claudius. 

Funcli ( Funeccius ), Joiianx, a celebrated Lutheran 
divine, was born at Werden, near Nuremberg, Feb. 1, 
1518, and was beheaded at Konigsberg, Oct. 28, 1566. 
He married the daughter of Osiander (q. v.), and adopt- 
ed the opinions of his father-in-law on justification 
(q. v.), and, after the death of Osiander, 1552, he came 
to be the leader of the mediation party, but in 1556 he 
assented to the Augsburg Confession and to Melanc- 
tbon’s Loci Communes. He was declared to be ortho- 
dox in 1561 by the divines of Leipsic and Wittenberg. 
He was made chaplain to Albert, duke of Prussia, but, 
having given him advice deemed disadvantageous to 
Poland, was, with his friends Snellius and Horstius, 
condemned and executed in 1566. He wrote a Chro- 
nology from Adam to A.D. 1560 (continued by an 
anonymous hand to 1578) in folio; Latin biographies 
of Vert Dietrich, and Andrew Osiander, his father-in- 
law ; and Commentaries in German on Daniel and the 
Revelations, published by Sachsen (Frankfort, 1596, 
4to), with wood-engravings by Spies. — Hoefer, Nouv. 
Biogr. Gener. xix, 58; Gieseler, Ch. Histoiy , per. 4, § 39. 
(J. W. M.) 

Functionaries, “persons who are appointed to 
discharge any office. Tims the clergy are ‘function- 
aries’ of the particular church of which they are mem- 
bers, to fulfil an ‘ office and administration in the same,’ 
in that capacity deriving their station and power from 
Christ, by virtue of the sanction given by him to Chris- 
tian communities. Thus the authority of those officers 
comes direct from the society so constituted, in whose 
name and behalf they act as its representatives, just to 
that extent to which it has empowered and directed 
them to act. In conformity with these views, each 
person about to be ordained as priest in the Church of 
England is asked whether he thinks he is ‘truly called,’ 
both ‘according to the will of Christ and the order of 
this Church of England.' ” — Eden, Churchman s Did. 
s. v. 

Fundamentals. A distinction has been drawn, 
both in the Roman Catholic and Protestant Churches, 


between fundamental and non-fundamental articles of 
faith. 

I. Roman theologians understand by articuli funda- 
mentals those doctrines which every Christian is 
obliged to know, to believe, and to profess, on pain of 
damnation ; and by articuli non-f undam entales such 
doctrines as a man may be involuntarily ignorant of, 
without losing the name of Christian and the hope of 
salvation, it being taken for granted that he would be- 
lieve them if made known to him by the Church. Sul>- 
stantially the Roman doctrine is that whatever the 
Church teaches is fundamental. 

II. In the Lutheran Church the distinction between 
fundamental and non-fundamental doctrines was intro- 
duced by Hunnius, and after him was further devel- 
oped by Quenstedt. See Hunnius, De fundamental li 
dissensa doctrince. Lutherianx et Calciniancc (1626). Ac- 
cording to this distinction, fundamental doctrines arc 
those which are essential to the faith unto salvation, 
viz. the doctrine of Clnist the Mediator, of the Word 
of God as the seed of truth, etc. The later theology 
has abandoned this distinction, so far as its scientitic 
use is concerned. Practically, however, all Christians 
agree in considering certain doctrines as essential to 
the Christian system, and others as comparatively non- 
essential. See Bergier, Diet, de Theologie , s. v. Fonda- 
mentaux; Pelt, Theolog. Encyclop. art. 66; Dodd, On Par- 
ables, i, 14; Chillingworth, Religion of Protestants, pt. 
i, ch.iii; Hammond, Works, vol. i ; Stillingtleet, IForA's, 
iv, 56 sq. ; Turretin, De Articnlis Fundamentalibus , 
1719. Waterland treats the subject largely in his 
Discourse on Fundamentals ( Works , Oxf. 1853, 6 vols., 
vol.v,p.73 sq.). He remarks that when we apply “the 
epithet fundamental either to religion in general or 
to Christianity in particular, we are supposed to mean 
something essential to religion or Christianity, so nec- 
essary to its being, or, at least, to its well-being, that it 
could not subsist, or maintain itself, without it.” He 
holds that Scripture indicates this distinction of things 
more or less weighty : e. g. Paul, with regard to cer- 
tain Judaizers, exhorted his converts to bear with them 
(1 Cor. ix, 19-23), while to others he would not give 
place by subjection, no, not for an hour (Gal. ii, 5, 21). 
That the primitive Church recognised the distinc- 
tion he thinks has been fully shown by Spanheim, iii, 
1059 ; Hoornbeck, Socin. Confut. i, 9, 210, etc. Bing- 
ham remarks that as to fundamental articles of faith, 
the Church had them always collected or summed up 
out of Scripture in her creeds, the profession of which 
was ever esteemed both necessary on the one hand, 
and sufficient on the other, in order to the admission 
of members into the Church by baptism ; and, conse- 
quently, both necessary and sufficient to keep men in 
the unity of the Church, so far as concerns the unity 
of faith generally required of all Christians, to make 
them one body and one Church of believers {Orig. 
Eccles. bk. xvi, ch. i). The difficulty of the subject, 
according to Waterland, lies not so much in deciding 
what is fundamental to the Christian system as such, as 
in deciding whether these things are to be held essen- 
tial in the belief of particular persons in order to their 
salvation. The former are as fixed as Christianity 
itself; the latter will always vary with the capacities 
and opportunities of the persons themselves. So the 
terms of communion may be one thing, the terms of 
salvation another. Herein Roman Catholic theology 
differs from Protestant, as it makes the terms of com- 
munion identical with the terms of salvation. Jona- 
than Edwards cites Stapfer to the same purport: “ On 
account of the various degrees of men’s capacities, and 
the various circumstances of the times in which they 
lived, one man may know truths which another cannot 
know. Whence it follows that the very same articles 
rre not fundamental to all men ; but, accordingly as 
revelation hath been more or less complete, according 
to the several dispensations under which men have 
lived, their various natural abilities, and their various 


FUNDAMENTALS 


094 


FUNERAL 


modes of circumstances of living, different articles are, 
and have been, fundamental to different men. This is 
very plain from the different degrees of knowledge be- 
fore and since the coming of Christ, for before his coni- 
ng many truths were hid which are now set in the 


Christ being the only God and man in one person, re- 
mains forever a distinct person from all saints and an- 
gels, notwithstanding their union and communion with 
him. 12. That all men by nature are dead in sins and 
trespasses ; and no man can be saved unless he be born 


most clear light; and the instance of the apostles again, repent, and believe. 13. That we are jin tided 


abundantly shows the truth of what I have now ad- 
vanced, who, although they were already in a state of 
grace, and their salvation was secured, yet for some 
time were ignorant of the necessity of the suffering 
and death of Christ, and of the true nature of his king- 
dom ; whereas he who now does not aekowlcdge, or 
perhaps denies, the necessity of Christ’s death, is by 
all means to be considered as in a fundamental error. 
Therefore, as a man hath received of God greater or 
less natural abilities, so let the number of articles to 
which he shall give his assent be greater or smaller ; 
and as revelation hath been made, or information hath 
beeii given, to a man more clearly or obscurely, in the 
same proportion is more or less required of him. 
Therefore, in our own ease, we ought to be cautious of 
even the smallest errors, and to aim at the highest 
degree of knowledge in divine truths. In the ease of 
others we ought to judge concerning them with the 
greatest prudence, mildness, and benevolence. Hence 
we see that a certain precise number of articles which 
shall be necessary and fundamental to every man ean- 
not be determined” (Edwards, ITor&s, N. Y. ed., 4 vols., 
vol. iii, p. 545). 

After Cromwell came into power in England in 1653, 
a committee of divines w^as appointed by Parliament 
to draw up a catalogue of “ fundamentals” to be pre- 
sented to the House. “Archbishop Usher was nomi- 
nated, but he declining, Mr. Baxter was appointed in 
liis room ; the rest who acted were Dr. (Wen, Dr. 
Goodwin, Dr. Cheynel, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Reyner, Mr. 
Nye, Mr. Sydrach Simpson, Mr. Vines, Air. Manton, 
Mr. Jacomb. Mr. Baxter desired to offer the Apostles’ 
Creed, the Lord’s Prayer, and the Ten Commandments 
alone, as containing the fundamentals of religion ; but 
it was objected that this would include Socinians and 
papists. Mr. Baxter replied that it was so much fitter 
for a centre of unity or concord, because it w as impos- 
sible, in his opinion, to devise a form of words which 
heretics would not subscribe, w hen they had perverted 
them to tlieir own sense. These arguments not pre- 
vailing, the following articles were presented to the 
House, under the title of ‘The Principles of Faith, 
presented by Mr. Thomas Goodwin, Mr. Nye, Mr. Sy- 
drach Simpson, and other Ministers, to the Committee 
of Parliament for Religion, by way of Explanation to 
the Proposals for propagating the Gospel.’ 1. That 
the Holy Scripture is that rule of knowing God and 
living unto him, which wdioso does not believe cannot 
be saved. 2. That there is a God, who is the creator, 
governor, and judge of the world, which is to be re- 
ceived by faith, and every other way of the knowl- 
edge of him is insufficient. 3. That this God, who is 
the creator, is eternally distinct from 
all creatures in his being and bless- 
edness. 4. That this God is one in 
three persons or subsistences. 5. 

That Jesus Christ is the only medi- 
ator between God and man, without 
the knowledge of whom there is no 
salvation. 6. That this Jesus Christ 
is the true God. 7. That this Jesus 
Christ is also true man. 8. That 
this Jesus Christ is God and man 
in one person. 3. That this Jesus 
Christ is our Redeemer, who, by 
paying a ransom and bearing our 
sins, has made satisfaction for them. 

20. That this same Lord Jesus Christ 
is he that w r as crucified at Jerusalem, 
and rose again, and ascended into 
heaven. 21. That this same Jesus 


and saved by grace and faith in Jesus Christ, and not 
by works. 14. That to continue in any known sin, 
upon what pretence or principle soever, is d: mnable. 
15. That God is to be worshipped according to his owm 
will ; and whosoever shall forsake and despise all the 
duties of his worship, cannot be saved. 26. That the 
dead shall rise ; and that there is a day of judgment, 
wherein all shall appear, some to go into everlasting 
life, and some into everlasting condemnation. Mr. 
Baxter {Life, p. 205) says Dr. Owen worded these ar- 
ticles; that Dr. Goodwin, Mr. Nye, and Mr. Simpson 
were his assistants ; that Dr. Cheynel was scribe ; and 
that Mr. Marshal, a sober, worthy man, did something ; 
but that the rest were little better than passive. It 
appears by these articles that these divines intended 
to exclude not onl}’- Deists, Socinians, and papists, but 
Arians, Antinomians, Quakers, and others” (Neal, His- 
tory of the Puritans, Harpers’ ed., i, 131). 

Funeral. Burying was (as generally, Cicero, 
Ley. ii, 22 ; Pliny, vii, 55) the oldest, as in all antiq- 
uity the customary, and among the Israelites the only 
mode of disposing of corpses (Gen. xxiii, 19; xxv, 9* 
xxxv, 8, 19; Judg. ii, 9; viii, 32; 1 Sam. xxv, 1, etc. ; 
John xi, 17 ; Matt, xxvii, GO, ete.). So likewise among 
the Egyptians, Babylonians, and Persians (Lucian, 
Suet. 21 ; Curtins, iii, 12, 11 and 13), of W'hich people 
ruins of necropolises and tombs still remain. Of burn- 
ing (which among the Greeks was a well-known cus- 
tom — although in no age altogether prevalent, see 
Becker, Charicles , ii, 181 sq.), the first trace occurs in 1 
Sam. xxxi, 12, and even there as an extraordinary 
case (vcr. 10). The practice has also been inferred 
from Amos vi, 10, where the term mesarepho 

“he that burneth him” (i. e. the nearest relative, who 
kindled the pyre; compare Gen. xxv, 9; xxxv, 29; 
Judg. xvi, 31), occurs; but De Rossi, with several 
MSS., reads (so Ilitzig, ad loe., although Rosenmuller, 
ad loc., otherwise explains) alluding to the 

different custom of burning — not the body itself, but — 
sweet spices at the funeral, as in Chron. xvi, 14; xxi, 
19; Jer. xxxiv, 5 (eomp. Dent, xii, 31), as confirmed 
by Josephus (IVar, i, 33, 9; see Geier, De luctu, vi, 2 
sq. ; Kirchmann, De funerib. p. 248 sq. ; Dougta?i An- 
alect. i, 196 sq.). After the exile the burning of dead 
bodies was still less an Israelitish custom, and the 
Talmud classes it with heathenish practices; hence 
even Tacitus {Ilist. v, 5, 4) mentions burial as an alto- 
gether Jewish usage. The same conclusion is eon- 
firmed by the fact that combustion of the person is 
affixed 1 > 3 ' the Mosaic law (Lev. xx, 14; xxi, 9) as a 
special penalty for certain crimes (see Michaelis [who, 



C95 


FUNERAL 


FUNERAL 


however, reaches a false result], De combustione et hu - 
matione mortuorum ap. Ilebrceos , in his Syntagma comm. 
i, 225 sq.). See Grave. To leave the deatl unhuried 
was to the Hebrews a most dreadful thought (1 Kings 

xiii, 22; xiv, 11; xvi, 4; xxi, 24; Jer. vii, 33; viii, 
2; ix, 22; xiv, 16; xvi, 4; xxv, 33; Ezek. xxix, 5; 
Psa. Ixxix, 3), and was regarded by the ancients uni- 
versally as one of the grossest insults (Sophocles, 
Ajax, 1156; Ilerodian, viii, 5, 24; iii, 12, 25; Plutarch, 
Virt. mul. p. 226, ed. Tauchn. ; Isocr. Panath. p. 638 ; 
sec Musgrave, acl Soph. A ntiq. 25); lienee to inter the 
remains of the departed was a special work of affection 
(Tobit i, 21 ; ii, 8), and was an imperative duty of 
sons toward their parents (Gen. xxv, 9 ; xxxv, 29 ; 1 
Macc. ii, 70; Tobit vi, 15; Matt, viii, 21; compare 
Demostli. Aristog. p. 496; Val. Max. v, 4, ext. 3; see 
Kype, Obscrv. i, 46), and next devolved upon relatives 
and friends (Tobit xiv, 16). If the corpse remained 
uninhumed, it became a prey to the roving, hungry 
dogs and ravenous birds (1 Kings xiv, 11; xvi, 4; 
xxi, 24; Jer. vii, 33; 2 Sam. xxi, 10 [2 Kings ix, 35 
sq.] ; compare Homer, II. xxii, 41 sq. ; Eurip. Ileracl. 
1050). Nevertheless, that was not often the fate of 
the dead among the Israelites, except in consequence 
of the atrocities of war, since Dent, xxi, 23 (Josephus, 
War, vi, 72) was held to entitle even criminals to in- 
terment (Josephus, War, iv, 5, 2; comp. Matt, xxvii, 
58; yet it was otherwise in Egypt, Gen. xl, 19). Ac- 
cording to the Talmud (Lightfoot, Ilor. Ifeb. p. 499) 
there were two especial burial-places at Jerusalem for 
executed persons. — Winer, i, 147. See To.md. 

What form or ceremonies of obsequies was observed 
by the ancient Hebrews is almost altogether unknown, 
except that in the earlier and simpler age the act of 
interment was performed by the relations (sons, broth- 
ers) with their own hands (Gen. xxv, 9; xxxv, 29; 
Judg. xvi, 31 ; the later passages, 1 Macc. ii, 70 ; Tobit 

xiv, 16, only indicate the attendance of the kindred at 
the rites; so also Matt, viii, 22). In later times the 
Jews left this to others, and in Amos v, 16 it is spoken 
of as something shocking that kinsmen should he 
obliged to carry the corpse to the grave (this pious care, 
however, was due from friends, e. g. from pupils to- 
wards their teacher, 1 Kings xiii, 30; Mark vi, 29). 
Closing the e}'es and giving the last kiss (Thilo, Apocr. 
i, 44) are mentioned (Gen. xlvi, 4; 1, 1 ; Tobit xiv, 15) 
as natural expressions of farewell (the Talmud has a 
prescription concerning them, Sfuibb. xxiii, 5) from 
early antiquity (Homer, II. xi, 452 ; Odyss. xi, 425 sq. ; 
xxiv, 296; Eurip. Ilec. 428 ; Virg. AEn. ix, 487 ; Ovid, 
Trist. ii, 3, 43 ; iv, 3, 43 sq. ; Val. Max. ii, 6, 8 ; Pliny, 
xi, 55; Euseb. Ilist. Peel, vii, 22). Immediately after 
decease (the sooner the better) the body was washed 
(Acts ix, 37), then wrapped in a large cloth (mvcuw, 
Matt, xxvii, 59; Mark xv, 46; Luke xxiii, 53), or all 
its limbs wound with bands (oSovia, Kiintat , see John 
xi, 44; compare ChifHet, De lint eh sepulcral. Christi , 
Antw. 1624, 1688), between the folds of which, in the 
case of a person of distinction, aromatics were laid or 
sprinkled (John xix, 39 sq. ; compare John xii, 7 ; the 
custom of anointing the corpse with spiced unguents 
was very prevalent anciently, Pliny, xiii, 1 ; Homer, 
Odyss. xxiv, 45; Iliad , xviii, 350; xxiv, 582; Lucian, 
Luct. 11). See Dougtad Annal. ii, 61 sip At public 
funerals of princes sumptuous shrouds were usual, and 


there was a prodigal expense of odors (Josephus, Ant. 
xv, 3, 4 ; xvii, 8, 3 ; War, i, 33, 9). The speedy burial 
customary with the later Jews (Acts v, 6, 10 ; as a rule 
on the same day, before sundown) had its origin in the 
Levitical defilement (Numb, xix, 11 sq.); in earlier 
times it did not prevail (Gen. xxiii, 2 sq. ; comp. Char- 
din, vi, 485). The removal (iKipipeir) to the grave 
was done in a cofiin (cropoc, Luke vii, 14; \dpva%, Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xv, 3, 2), which probably was usually 
open (? Luke vii, 14; comp. Schulz, Lcitung , iv, 182; 
but see Josephus, Ant. xv, 1, 2); and ou a bier (*1^*3, 



Moliamm :dan Bier, for the Body of a Female or Boy (Lane). 


2 Sam. iii, 31 ; icXlvi], Josephus, Life, 62 ; Ant. xvii, 8, 
3; of costly materials in the case of royal personages, 
even adorned with precious stones, Josephus, Ant. 
xiii, 16, 1 ; xvii, 8, 3 ; War , i, 33, 9), borne by mep 
(Luke v vii, 14; Acts v, 6, 10), with a retinue of the 
relatives and friends (2 Sam. iii, 31 ; Luke vii, 12; the 
Talmud speaks of funeral processions with horns {Pa- 
rah , xii, 9 ; on royal funeral processions, see Josephus, 
Ant. xiii, 16, 1; xvii, 8, 3; War, i, 33, 9) in a long 
train (Job xxi, 33), and with loud weeping and wailing 
(2 Sam. iii, 32; compare Baruch vi, 31). Even in the 
house of grief, before the funeral, lamentation was kept 
up with accompaniment of mourning pipes (Matt, ix, 
23 ; Mark v, 38 ; compare Jer. ix, 17 ; 2 Chron. xxxv, 
25; Ovid, Fast, vi, 660 ; see Hilliger, De tibicin. in fi- 
ner. adhib. Viteb. 1717 ; Kirchmann, Fun. Roman, ii, 5). 
Female mourners, especially (Jer. ix, 17), were hired 
for the purpose (Mishna, Moed Katon , iii, 8), who pro- 
longed the lamentation several days (Wellsted, i, 150; 
Prokesch, Erinner. i, 93, 102, 130). After the burial a 
funeral meal was given (2 Sam. iii, 35; Jer. xvi, 5, 7 ; 
Hos. ix, 4; Ezek. xxiv, 17, 24; Tobit iv, 18; F.pist. 
Jer. 30 ; compare Homer, II. xxiii, 28 ; xxiv, 802 ; Lu- 
cian, Luct. 24 : see Geier, De luctn Ebr. ch. vi ; Heben- 
streit, in the Miscell. Lips, ii, 720 sq. ; vi, 83 sq. ; Gar- 
mann, in Iken’s Thesaur. i, 1028 sq.); and among the 
later Jews, in families of distinction, invitations were 
extended to the honorable as well as to the people, so 
that these entertainments eventnally became scenes 



FUNERAL 


G96 


FUNERAL DISCOURSES 


of luxurious display (Joseplius, War, ii, 1, 1). War- 
riors were buried with their arms (Ezek. xxxii, 27 ; 1 
Macc. xiii, 29 ; comp. Ilomer, OJyss. xi, 74 ; xii, 13 ; 
Virgil, xEn. vi, 233; Diod. Sic. xviii, 26; Curtius, x, 
1, 31 ; see Tavernier, i, 234), and persons of rank or 
royalty with jewels and valuables (Josephus, Ant. xv, 
3, 4 ; xvi, 7, 1). In later times, when the belief in the 
resurrection became generally distinct, a funeral sac- 
rifice was made (2 Macc. xii, 43). See generally We- 
ber, Observutt. sacr. circa funera populor. orientt. (Ar- 
gent. 1767); Montbron, Essai sur la litterature des lie - 
breux (Par. 1819), III, i, 1 sq., 253 sq. ; also Meursius, 
Defunere lib. sing., in his Opp. v. — Winer, ii, 15. For 
the funeral customs of the ancient Egyptians, see Wil- 
kinson, chap, x (abridgm.); for those of the modern 
Egyptians, see Lane, chap, xxviii. See Burial. 



Modem Egyptian Funeral Procession (Lane). 


Monographs on funerals in general have been writ- 
ten by Fuderici (Jen. 1755), Ingler [in Germ.] (Lu- 
neb. 1757), Pomeg (L. B. 1659); on burial in general, 
by Heidegger (Ileidelb. 1670), Nettelbladt (Post. 1728), 
Lungh (Holm. 1672); on ancient modes of burial, by Gy- 
raldus (IIelmst.1676), Quenstedt (Viteb. 1660), Strauch 
(Viteb.1660), Cellarius (Ilclinst.1682), Florinus (Abora, 
1695); among the Greeks, by Norberg ( Opusc . ii, 507- 
526); on the right and diit} r of sepulture, by Bruckner 
(Jena, 1708), Bohmer (Halle, 1717), IJurchard (Lips. 
1700), Hofmann (Viteb. 1726), Ilorcr (Viteb. 1661), 
Sahme (Pegiom. 1710), Saurmann (Brem. 1737), Scldc- 
gel (Lips. 1679); in time of war, by Preibis (Viteb. 
1685) ; in temples, by Allegrantia (Medio. 1773), Plat- 
ner (Lips. 1788), Winkler (Lips. 1784), Woken (Viteb. 
1752), Lampe (Argent. 1776), Gundling (Obs. select, i, 
137 sq.); on sepulchres, by Eckhard (Jena, 1726); on 
cenotaphs, b} r Bidermann (Frib. 1755); and cemeteries, 
by Bachon (Gott. 1725), Berger (Post. 1689), Bohmer 
(Mai. 1716, 1726), Fnhrmann [in Germ.] (II al. 1801), 
Spondanus (Par. 1638); and their san iity, by Lede- 
rer (Viteb. 1661), Lichtwehr (Viteb. 1747), Niespen (L. 
B. 1723), Plaz (Lips. 1725), Schbpfer (Bremen, 1747), 
Junius (Lips. 1744); on the Catacombs, by Cyprian 
(llelmst. 1699); Fehrnel (Lips. 1710-13) ; on mourn- 
ing, by TEminga (Grvph. 1751); Nicolai (Marb.1739), 
Geier (Lips. 1666), Kirchmann (Ilamb. 1605, Lubec, 
1625), Sopranus (Loud. 1643); on funeral dresses, by 
Mavcr (llamb. 1706); on the expense of funerals, by 
Philipp (Lips. 1684); on placing money in the mouth 
of the corpse, by Seyftert (Lips. 1709) ; on lamps at 
the grave, by Ferrari (Patavium, 1764), Schurzfleisch 
(Viteb. 1710), Willesch (Alt. 1715); and flowers, by 
Fliigge (Hafn. 1704); on funeral feasts, by Jeniehen 
[in German] (Lpz. 1747), Schmidt (Lips. 1693), Trop- 
panger (Viteb. 1710) ; on funeral incense, by Bromel 
(Jen. 1687); on funeral orations, by Bohmer (llelmst. 
1713, 1715), Mayer (Lips. 1670), Posenberg (Budiss. 
1689), Senf (Lips. 1689), Wild vogel (Jen. 1701), Witte 
(1691); and as a Boman custom, by Fortlagc (Osnabr. 
1789); on monuments, by Behrnauer [in German] 
(Frib. 1755), Ilerfordt (llafn. 1722), Hottinger (Hei- 
delb. 1659) ; on cuttings for the dead, by Michaelis (F. 
ad A". 1734); on Christian burial, by Behrnauer (Bn- 
diss. 1732\ Gretsa(Ingolstadt, 1611), Joch (Jen. 1726), 
Kicsling (Viteb. 1736), Franzcn (Lips. 1713), Larro- 


quanus ( Advers . sacr. L. B. 1688, p. 187 sq.), Fanvinus 
(Lond. 1572, Pom. 1581, Lips. 1717), Posenberg (Bu- 
diss. 1690), Samcllius (Taurin. 1678), Schurzfleisch 
( Controv . p. 34) ; on the burial of the patriarchs, by 
Carpzov ( Dissert . p. 1670 sq.), Semler (Halle, 1706), 
Zeibich (Viteb. 1742); on Asa's funeral, bj' Miiller 
(ATteb. 1716) ; on the burial of animals, by Dasson (A r i- 
teb. 1697), Lange (Altorf, 1705), Castajus [at Jer. xxii, 
19] (Lips. 1716). See Grave; Cemetery; Dead, 
etc. 

Funeral Discourses, (1) addresses delivered ci- 
ther at the house of mourning or the grave ; (2) fu- 
neral sermons or panegyrics, i. AA'e see, in Acts viii, 
2, that certain ceremonies were observed in the early 
Church on the occasion of funerals. The apostolical 
constitutions prescribe certain services in cases of 
Christian burial (bk. viii, cap. 41, 42, Celebretur dies ter - 
this in psalmis, lectionibus et precibns, oh enm, qui tertia 
die resurvexit ; item dies nonus, etc.). But these serv- 
ices did not all take place at the time of the funeral, 
since it is known that bodies were not kept for three 
days in the East before burial. Of addresses delivered 
at funerals there is no mention made until after Basil, 
the two Gregorios, and Chrj'sostom had introduced 
Greek rhetoric into the Christian Church. The fu- 
neral addresses of that age are mostly panegyrics de- 
livered on the deaths of distinguished persons, such as 
martyrs, bishops, princes, etc. In the Middle Ages, 
funeral services were chiefly masses and prayers for 
the dead. The Reformation, w hile abolishing masses 
for the dead, instituted in its stead the practice of pro- 
claiming the AVord of God by the side of the open 
grave. The objects of this practice were stated, as 
early as 1536, in the Church JJiscipline of Wiirtemberg, 
to be (1) public recognition of the Christian’s hope of 
resurrection ; (2) a public testimony of Christian affec- 
tion ; (3) an earnest memento mori. Since the intro- 
duction of Rationalism, addresses at the grave have 
lost much of their general religious character in Ger- 
many, and have become, to a certain extent, panegyrics 
of the deceased. In other Protestant countries usages 
vary : sometimes there is simply a liturgical service 
at the house or at the grave; sometimes simply the 
reading of the Scriptures and prayer; sometimes an 
address of consolation or warning is added. This lat- 
ter is generally the usage of the churches which do 
not make use of forms of prayer. 

II. Funeral Sermons. — These are generally delivered 
from the pulpit. The funeral sermon differs from the 
simple funeral address, inasmuch as instead of being, as 
the former originally w f as, a mere exhortation, or, as it 
aftcrw'ards became, a personal panegyric, it is a regular 
sermon, preached from a text, which, however adapted 
to the circumstances, reminds the officiating minister, 
as does also the place from whence it is delivered, that 
he addresses a congregation, not a mere circle of family 
or friendship, and that bis whole discouise should conse- 
quently be more objective than personal. The funeral 
sermon proper, as contrasted with orations and pane- 
gyrics, may be considered as having originated with 
Protestantism, in the place of the Boman Catholic 
ceremonial, which was necessarily rejected with the 
doctrine of purgator} 1, (see Klieforth, liturgische Ah - 
liandhmgen (vol. i, p. 275 sq). The earliest Protestant 
discipline made the principal part of the funeral cere- 
mony the AVord of God, cither as a simple lesson, or as 
a regular sermon (see Ilallische Kirchenordnnng, A.D. 
1526; Richter, i, 47). “At the following church-ser- 
vice after the burial of the party he shall he remem- 
bered and his death announced ; his friends shall he 
comforted by the AVord of God, and others reminded 
to hold themselves in readiness, with strong faith and 
hope, to obey God’s call at any time and in any way.” 
The reformatio eedesiarum I I (issue, 1526 (ib. p. 61), says ; 
“ Laitdandum autem, si infuncre habeaiur out sincera 
pradieatio verbi Dei, ant saltern juxta ipsum breris ad- 
monitioE In those days liturgy and homiletics were 


FURLONG 


607 


FURNACE 


not so distinct from each other as they have become 
since. In some places texts were prescribed for funeral 
sermons, and even sermons were given as models for 
similar productions. Luther himself gives two such in 
his Hauspostille. The sermon was gradually made 
more like the panegyric. Ilnnnius says, in the pref- 
ace of his twenty-seven funeral sermons: “Men are 
no longer simply buried with the customary Christian 
ceremonies, but by request of the survivors there are 
sermons preached on the Word of God, and testimony 
rendered of the life and especially of the end of the 
dead, in what faith and hope they ended their life.” 
Added to these, comparison with similar persons, refer- 
ence to other members of the family, etc., furnished 
much material for discourses as acceptable to the hear- 
er as to the preacher. From the middle of the lGth 
century to the beginning of the 18th, funeral sermons 
were either mere eulogies, or utterly objective and 
speculative discourses. A. H. Francke gave in 1700 a 
funeral sermon of 40 pages fol., with a long appendix. 
In the Roman Church some of the most brilliant ser- 
mons of the 16th and 17th centuries were funeral dis- 
courses ; e. g. the oraisons funibres of Bossuet and oth- 
er French orators. In modern Protestant churches 
(England and America) funeral sermons are generally 
preached only on the death of some person distinguish- 
ed for piety or position. Still, in some parts of the 
United States they are in more frequent use; some- 
times they are even preached with regard to the de- 
cease of children. See llerzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 
Grabreden. See Burial; Homiletics. 

Furlong (ordchoc or ctwiTiop, a stadium ), a Greek 
measure of distance, equal to GOG feet 9 inches (Luke 
xxiv, 13 ; John vi, 19; xi, 18; [1 Cor. ix, 24, “race,” 

i. e. a course or lists for running] ; Rev. xiv. 20; xx, 
1G). See Smith’s Did. of Class. Antiq. s. v. Stadium. 
See Measure ; Stade. 

Furman, Richard, a leading Baptist minister in 
the Southern States, was horn at iEsopus, N. Y., in 
1755. While he was a child, his father removed to 
South Carolina. 1 1 is education was carefully attend- 
ed to by his father, who instructed him in English stud- 
ies and in mathematics, and particularly in the Scrip- 
tures. lie began at the early age of eighteen to preach 
in destitute places, and soon gained a wide influence. 
Many churches were formed by his agency. During 
the Revolutionary War he was an ardent supporter of 
the cause of Independence, and his eloquence and pa- 
triotism attracted the attention of Patrick Henry and 
other leading statesmen. In 1787 he became pastor 
of a church in Charleston. He sat in the Convention 
for ratifying the Constitution of the United States. 
He received the degree of D.D. from Brown Univer- 
sity in 1800. He was elected in 1814 the first president 
of the Baptist General Convention for missionary pur- 
poses. lie died in 1825. He was a solemn and impres- 
sive preacher, an able presiding officer in deliberative 
assemblies, and in every relation an object of reverence 
and affection. He published, 1. heivards of Grace , a 
Sermon on the Death of Rev. Oliver Hart (179G) 2. 
An Oration at the Charleston Hospital (179G) : 3. Ser- 
mon Commemorative of General Washington (1800): 4. 

A Sermon on the Death of the Rev. Edmund Botsford.— 
Sprague, Annals, vi, 1G1. (L. E. S.) 

Furnace is the rendering in the Engl.Vers. of the 
following words. See Burning. 

1. attun (a Chald. term, of uncertain, prob. 

foreign derivation ; Sept. Kctpivoi ;), a large furnace, 
with a wide opening at the top to cast in the materials 
(Dan. iii, 22, 23), and a door at the ground by which 
the metal might be extracted (vcr. 26\ It was prob- 
ably built like the Roman kiln for baking pottery-ware 
(Smith, Did. of Class. Antiq. s. v. Fornax). The Per- 
sians were in the habit of using the furnace as a means 
of inflicting capital punishment (Dan. iii; comp. Jer. 



Ancient Homan Potter's Furnace. 


xxix, 22 ; 2 Macc. vii, 5 ; IIos. vii, 7 ; see Hoffmann, De 
flamma furni Babylonici, Jen. 1GG8). A parallel case 
is mentioned by Chardin ( Voyage en Perse , iv, 276), two 
ovens having beeu kept ready heated for a whole 
month to throw in any bakers who took advantage of 
the dearth. See Punishment. 

2. yens, kibshan' (so called from subduing the stone 
or ore), a smelting or calcining furnace (Gen. xix, 28), 
perhaps also a brick-kiln (Exod. ix, 8, 10; xix, 18); 
but especially a lime-kiln, the use of which was evi- 
dently well known to the Hebrews (Isa. xxxiii, 12; 
Amos ii, 1). See Brick ; Lime. 

3. "HS, kur (so called from its boiling up), a refining 
furnace (Prov. xvii, 3 ; xxvii, 21 ; Ezek. xxii, 18 sq.), 
metaphorically applied to a state of trial (Deut. iv, 20 ; 
1 Kings viii, 51 ; Isa. xlviii,10; Jer. xi, 4). The form 
of it was probably similar to the one used in Egypt 
(Wilkinson, Anc. Eg. ii, 137, abridgm.). The jeweller 
appears to have had a little portable furnace and blow- 
pipe, which he carried about with him, as is still the 
case in India. See Metallurgy. 



Ancient Egyptian blowing the fire for melting gold, with blow- 
pipe <v), forceps (6), and firepot having cheeks to confine and 
reflect the flame. 

4. aliV (perhaps so called from icorking over, 
Sept. SoKipiov, Vulg. probatuni), according to some, a 
workshop; others a crucible (only in Psa. xii, G, where 
it probabty denotes a mould in the sand for casting). 
See Fining-pot. 

5. ^flSPl, tannur' (of uncertain etymology), an oven 
(as usually rendered) for baking bread (“furnace,” 

j Gen. xv, 17 ; Isa. xxxi, 9; Neb. iii, 11; xii, 38), per- 
haps sometimes in a more general sense (Gen. xv, 17 ; 
Isa. xxxi, 9). The tannur is still in use by the Arabs 
under the same name, being a large round pot of earth- 
en or other materials, two or three feet high, narrow- 
ing towards the top; this being first heated by a fire 
made within, the dough or paste is spread upon the 
sides to bake, thus forming thin cakes (see Jahn, Bibl. 
Archceol. § 140). Of the Gr. icXifiaroc;, by which the 
Sept, render this word, Jerome says, on Lam. v, 10, 
“The clibanus, an extended round vessel of brass for 


FURXEAUX 


698 


FURROW 



baking bread, the fire being applied internally.” Sec 
Oven. 

0. Kd/upoc, a general term for furnace, kiln, or oren 
(Matt, xiii, 42, 50 ; 
llev. i, 15; ix, 2); es- 
pecially the potter’s 
furnace (Ecclus. xxvii, 
5; xxxviii, 30), 'which 
resembled a chimney 
in shape, and was about 
five or six feet high, 
having a cylindrical 
frame, in which the 
fire was kindled at the 
bottom, and the nar- 
row funnel produced a 
strong draught, that 
raised the flame above 

Ancient Kgyptiau 1‘uttefe Furnace! ‘I' 0 . to P (Wilkinson, 
Ancient Egypt, n, 108, 
abridgment); also a blacksmith's furnace (Ecclus. 
xxxviii, 2s). The same also describes the calcining 
furnace (Xenophon, Vectig. iv, 49). It is metaphori- 
cally used in the N. T. in this sense (Rev. i, 15 ; ix, 2), 
and in Matt, xiii, 42 with an especial reference to Dan. 
iii, G. See Potter. 

The Tower of the Furnaces 
Migdal' hat-Tannurim' ; Sept. vrvpyoQ rwr Sravvovpeip 
v. r. Savovpip, Vulg. turris furnorum ), i. e. of the Ov- 
ens (Neh. iii, 11 ; xiii, 38), was one of the towers on 
the second or middle wall of Jerusalem, at its NAV. 
angle, adjoining the “corner gate,” and near the in- 
tersection of the present line of the Via Dolorosa with 
the Street of St. Stephen (Strong’s Harm, and Expos. 
Append, p. 17). It may have derived its name from 
“the Bakers’ Street” (Jcr. xxxvii, 21) or “bazaar,” 
which probably lay in that vicinity (Josephus, War, v, 
8, 1, init.), as similar shops still do (Barclay, City rf the 
Great King , p. 434). See Jerusalem. 

Furneaux, Piitlip, D.D., an English Noncon- 
formist minister, was born at Totness in 172G, and died 
in 1783. He was first an assistant to a dissenting 
congregation in Southwark, then lecturer at Salters’ 
Hall, and in 1753 succeeded Moses Bowman (q. v.) at 
Clapham, in Surrey, w here he remained twenty-three 
years. For the last six years of his life he w r as totally 
deranged. lie published Sermons (1758-G9), and Let- 
ters to Justice Black stone on his Exposition of the Act of 
Toleration (1793, 8vo), which, it is said, induced that 
learned commentator to change some of his positions 
in the subsequent editions of his work. — Rose, New 
Gen. Biog. Dict.x ii, 4G2; Allibone, Dictionary of Au- 
thors, s. v. (J.W. M.) 

Furniture is the rendering in the Auth. Vers, in 
one passage of *13, kar, a camel’s litter or canopied 
saddle, in which females are accustomed to travel in 
the East, Gen. xxxi, 34, elsewhere a lamb, etc. ; also 
in a few passages of ^53, keli , a general term for ves- 
sels, utensils, or implements of any sort. The manu- 
facture of all kinds of furniture is represented on the 
Egyptian monuments with great minuteness. The 
recent excavations among the Assyrian mounds have 
also disclosed a high degree of refinement among the 
people of that age. See Wilkinson’s Ane. Egypt., Ro- 
sell ini’s Illustra. , and Lavaril and Botta’s works on 
ancient Nineveh and Babylon ; also the various arti- 
cles of household furniture in their alphabetical order. 
See Carpenter. 

It appears that the furniture of Oriental dwellings, 
in the earliest ages, was generally very simple; that 
of the poorer classes consisted of but few r articles, and 
those such only as were absolutely necessary. Sec 
House. The interior of the more common^and useful 
apartments was furnished with sets of large nails with 
square heads, like dice, and bent at the head, so as to 


make them cramp-irons: a specimen of these may be 
seen in the British Museum. In modern Palestine the 
plan is to fix nails or pins of wood in the walls, w hile 
they arc still soft, in order to suspend such domestic 
articles as are required; since, consisting altogether 
of clay, they are too frail to admit of the operation of 
the hammer. To this custom there is an allusion in 
Ezra ix, 8, and Isa. xxii, 23. On these nails were 
hung their kitchen utensils or other articles. Instead 
of chairs, the}' sat on mats or skins ; and the same ar- 
ticles, on which they laid a mattress, served them in- 
stead of bedsteads, while their upper garment was 
used for a covering. See Chair. Sovereigns had 
chairs of state, or thrones with footstools (Exod. xxii, 
2G, 27 ; Dent, xxiv, 12). The opulent had (as those 
in the East still have) fine carpets, couches, or divans 
and sofas, on which they sat, lay, and slept (2 Sam. 
xvii, 28 ; 2 Kings iv, 10). They have also a great va- 
riety of pillows and bolsters, with which they support 
themselves when they wish to take their ease, and 
there is an allusion to these in Ezek. xiii, 18. In later 
times these conches were splendid, and the frames in- 
laid with ivory (Amos vi, 4), which is plentiful in the 
East; they were also richly carved and perfumed (Prov. 
vii, 1G, 17). See Bed. On these sofas, in the latter 
ages of the Jewish state, for before the time of Moses 
it appears to have been the custom to sit at table (Gen. 
xliii, 33), they universally reclined when taking their 
meals (Amos vi,4; Luke vii, 3G-38). See Accuba- 
tion. Anciently splendid hangings were used in the 
palaces of the Eastern monarchs, embroidered with 
needle-work, and ample draperies were suspended over 
the openings in the sides of the apartments, for the 
twofold purpose of affording air, and of shielding them 
from the sun. Of this description were the costly 
hangings of the Persian sovereigns mentioned in Esth. 
i, G, which passage is confirmed by the statements of 
Quintius Curtius relating to their superb palace at 
Persepolis. See Embroidery. In the more ancient 
periods other articles of necessary furniture were both 
few and simple. Among these were a hand-mill, a 
kneading-trough, and an oven. See Bread. Be- 
sides kneading-troughs and ovens they must have had 
various kinds of earthen-ware vessels, especially pots 
to hold water for their several ablutions. In later 
times baskets formed an indispensable article of furni- 
ture to the Jews. See Basket. Large sacks are still, 
as they anciently were (Gen. xliv, 1-3; John ix, 11), 
employed for carrying provision and baggage of every 
description. The domestic utensils of the Orientals in 
the present day are nearly always of brass ; those of 
the ancient Egyptians were chiefly of bronze or iron. 
Bowls, cups, and drinking-vessels of gold and silver 
were used in the courts of princes and great men (Gen. 
xliv, 2, 5; 1 Kings x, 21). Some elegant specimens 
of these are given in the paintings of the tombs of 
Egypt. See Bowl. Bottles were made of skins, 
which arc chiefly of a red color (Exod. xxv, 5). Sec 
Bottle. Apartments were lighted by means of 
lamps, which were fed with olive-oil, and were com- 
monly placed upon elevated stands (Matt, v, 15). 
Those of the wise and foolish virgins (Matt, xxv, 1- 
10) were of a different sort; they were a kind of torch 
or flambeau, made of iron or earthen-ware, wrapped 
about with old linen, moistened from time to time with 
oil, and were suitable for being carried out of doors. 
See Lamp. 

Furrow (T'T!*, gedud an incision , e. g. in the 
soil, Psa. lxv, 10 ; maanah ' , a tilling with the 

plough, Psa. cxxix, 3; te'lem, Job xxxi, 38; 

xxxix, 10; IIos. x, 4; xii, 11, a ridge, as rendered 
Psa. lxv, 10 ; (13^3, arugah ' , Ezek. xvii, 8, 10, a bed 
in a garden, as rendered Cant, v, 13 ; vi, 2), an open- 
ing in the ground made hv a plough or other instru- 
ment (Psa. lxv, 10; IIos. x, 4, 10). Roberts, on Job 
xxxi, 38, “ If my land cry against me, or that the fur- 


FURSEUS 


099 


GAASil 


rows likewise tliereof complain,” observes that similar 
proverbs are common among the Hindus. See Agri- 
culture. 

In IIos. x, 10, the text has i. e. DIJ32, their 

[two] eyes , which the A. Vers, seems to have pointed 
EP-312; and even thus it will hardly bear their ren- 
dering, “these [two] furroivs” (as if from to till , 

the same root as in the second Heb. word above); but 
the margin, with all the versions (Davidson’s Hebrew 
Text , p. 125), has dPibl?, their [two] iniquities , refer- 
ring to the golden calves at Dan and Bethel (Hender- 
son, Comment, ad loc.). See Calf, Golden. 

Furseus, a missionary and abbot in the British 
Isles, and the founder of the convent of Lagny, near 
Paris, was born in Ireland, where he founded also a 
convent, to which he gave very strict rules. He then 
went to West Anglia, and erected the abbey of Knob- 
bersburg, which he afterwards resigned to his brother 
Foil lan, in order to withdraw into solitude. During 
the persecution of the Christians by Penda, king of 
the Mercians, he fled to France, where, under the pro- 
tection of Chlodwig II, he founded the convent of Lag- 
ny. He is supposed to have died in G50-G54. He had 
acquired particular consideration by his visions, in 
which he pretended to see and hear angels ; they are 
related in Bollandus, in vita S. Fnrsei ad 1G Jan. See 
Mabillon, Acta SS. Ord. S. B. I. ad a. 650 ; Annal. Ma- 
bill. I. catal. general, p. 731 ; Beda , Hist. gent. A ngl. eccl. 
ii, 19-23; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 629. 

Fury (NEH, chema' , or charon , both signi- 

fying intense anger) is attributed to God like anger, 
metaphorically, or speaking after the manner of men ; 
that is, God’s providential actions are such as would 
be performed by a man in a state of anger ; so that 
when he is said to pour out his fury on a person or on 
a people, it is a figurative expression for dispensing 
afflictive judgments (Lev. xxvi, 28; Job xx, 23; Isa. 


Ixiii, 3; Jer. iv, 4; Ezek. v, 13; Dan. ix, 1G; Zech. 
viii, 2, etc.). See Anthropomorphism. 

Future Life. See Eternal Life; Immortal- 
ity ; Intermediate State. 

Future Punishment. See Punishment. 

Fyne, Passciiier de, was born Jan. 31, 1588, at 
Leyden. He was inducted into the ministerial office 
somewhat irregularly. His first charge was that of 
Jaarsveld. He was zealously attached to the cause 
of the Remonstrants. In consequence of his refusal 
to subscribe the Canons of the Synod of Dort, he was 
suspended from the ministry. This did not deter him 
from avowing his intention to exercise his gift as the 
opportunity should be afforded him. Refusing to sub- 
scribe the act, which imposed silence upon him, he 
was sentenced to be banished. Notwithstanding this 
sentence, he still persisted in preaching from place to 
place, and was successful in evading his persecutors. 
After enduring many hardships and privations in his 
itinerant ministry, he was in 1G38 settled over a church 
in Haarlem. Here he was at first molested, but was 
subsequently permitted to exercise his ministry with- 
out further annoyance. He labored here till his death, 
which took place in 1GG1. He was a man of natural 
shrewdness, of great intrepidity, and full of zeal as a 
minister of the Gospel. The asperity of his language 
towards his opponents finds an apology in the treat- 
ment he received at their hands. His account of the 
Rijnsburgeren is regarded as valuable, being the testi- 
mony of one personally acquainted with the facts. It 
is entitled Kort en icaerachtig verhael van het eerste 
begin en opkomen van de nieuwe sccte der profeten of 
Rijnsburgeren. See Brandt’s Ilistorie der Re for made, 
etc., iii en iv Deelen, op verscheidene plaatsen ; De 
Remonstrantsehe Broederschap , etc., door J. Tideman , 
PhU. Thenr. Mag. Lit. Hum. Dr., Predikant (e Rotter- 
dam, , 1847 ; Glasius, Godgeleerd Nederland , biz. 479 en 
verv. (J.P.W.) 


G. 


Gaab, Johann Friedrich, a German theologian, 
was born at Goppingcn, in Wurtemberg, Oct. 10, 1761. 
In 1792 he became professor extraordinarins, in 1798 
professor ordinarius of philosophy at Tubingen ; in 
1814, librarian of the university; in 1822, general su- 
perintendent, in which office he remained till his death, 
March 2,1832. He was a voluminous writer, chiefly 
in Biblical literature. Among his works are Observa- 
tiones ad histonam Judaicam (Tub. 1787, 8vo) : — Bei- 
trdge z. Erlddrung des 1, 2, 3 biichen Mosis (Tub. 1776, 
8vo) : — Das Buck Hiob (Tiib. 1809, 8vo) : — Erlddrung 
schwerer Stellen Jeremias (Tiib. 1824, 8vo) : — ddandbuch 
zum pkilolog. 1 'erst then der Apocryph. Schriften des A . 
T. (1818-19, 5 parts) : — Dogmengeschichte der dlt.griech. 
Kirche (Jena, 1790, 8vo) : — Programma de Judtvo Im- 
mortali (Tiib. 1815). — Migne, Biog. Chretienne , s. v. 

Ga'al (Heb. id.bv 3, loathing ; Sept. TadA, Josephus 
r«d\j/£), son of Ebed (Judg. ix, 26 sq.). He went to 
Shechem with bis brothers when the inhabitants be- 
came discontented with Abimelech, and so engaged 
their confidence that they placed him at their head. 
He does not seem to have been a native of Shechem, 
nor specially interested in the revolution, but rather 
one of a class of condoitieri, who at such a period of an- 
archy would be willing to sell their services to the 
highest bidder (compare Josephus, Ant. v, 7, 3 and 4). 
At the festival at which the Shechemites offered the 
first-fruits of their vintage in the temple of Baal, Gaal, 
by apparently drunken bravadoes, roused the valor of 
the people, and strove yet more to kindle their wrath 
against the absent Abimelech. It would seem as if 
the natives had been in some way intimately connect- 
ed with, or descended from, the original inhabitants, 


for Gaal endeavored to awaken their attachment to the 
ancient family of Hamor, the father of Shechem, which 
ruled the place in the time of Abraham (Gen. xxxiv, 
2, 6), and which seems to have been at this time repre- 
sented by Gaal and his brothers. This appeal to ante- 
Israelitish traditions (Judg. ix, 28), together with the 
re-establishment of idolatry at Shechem, shows that 
the movement in which he took part was a reactionary 
one, and proceeded upon the principle of a combina- 
tion of the aborigines with the idolatrous Israelites 
against the iconoclastic family of Gideon as represent- 
ed by Abimelech. Although deprived of Shechem, 
the family appears to have maintained itself in some 
power in the neighborhood, which induced the Shech- 
emites to look to Gaal when they became tired of 
Abimelech. Whether he succeeded in awakening 
among them a kind feeling towards the descendants 
of the ancient masters of the place does not appear; 
but eventually they went out under his command, and 
assisted doubtless by his men, to intercept and give 
battle to Abimelech when lie appeared before the town. 
He, however, fled before Abimelech, and liis retreat 
into Shechem being cut oft" by Zebul, the command- 
ant of that place, he went to his home, and we hear 
of him no more. The account of this attempt is inter- 
esting, chiefly from the slight glimpse it affords of the 
position, at this period, of what had been one of the 
reigning families of the land before its invasion by the 
Israelites. B.C. 1319. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See 
Abimelech. 

Ga'ash (Heb. id. a shaking or earthquake ; 

Sept. Fadff or Faac), a “hill” (rather mount , *"^) 
among the mountains of Ephraim, near Timnath-se- 


GABA 


700 


GABBATIIA 


rah, on the north side of 'which Joshua was buried 
(Josh, xxiv, 30; Sept. VaXactC ; Jtulg. ii, 9). Hence 
“the brooks of Gaash,” i. e. the valleys or water- 
courses (-"PIT:, wczdys, Sept. N a\aXt or NaynX*/) 
around tlie mountain, which were the native place 
of Hiddai or Hurai, one of David’s warriors (2 Sam. 
xxiii, 30; 1 Chron. xi, 32). Eusebius and Jerome 
merely state that Joshua’s tomb was still a remarka- 
ble monument near Timnah in their day ( Onomast . s. 
v. P««£, Gaas). Sec Joshua. If Timnath (q. v.) be 
the modern Tibneh, then Mt. Gaash is probably the 
hill full of sepulchral caverns now facing it on the 
south. See Ephraim, Mt. 

Ga'ba, a less correct mode of Anglicizing (Josh, 
xviii, 24; Ezra ii, 26; Neb. vii, 30) the name Geba 
(q. v.). 

Gaba (evidently a form of the Heb. i. e. 

hill; see Gibeah), a town mentioned by Josephus, and 
always in connection with Ptolemais : it was destroyed 
by Mie insurgent Jews in the time of Florus (IFitir, ii, 
x'dii, 1, T d(3a v. r. rdpaXa and Vdf3aXa ) ; it adjoined 
31 1. Carmel, and was called “the city of horsemen” 
(ttoA/c imrsiov), because those horsemen that were dis- 
missed by Herod dwelt there ( War, iii, 3, 1, r«/3« v. r. 
rdftaXci , r«/3a\n, Td(3Xa, TafiXad) ; but it was differ- 
ent from the Gibea (Va(3d) that lay about 20 stadia 
from Ftolemais (Life, 23), as this was apparently the 
Gibeah of Benjamin. Reland, who notices several an- 
cient allusions to places of a similar name (Palecst. p. 
2G9), thinks that the town in question was the modern 
Haifa , on the shore near Carmel (q. d. the Syc- 

aminus of later writers (see Robinson, Researches, iii, 
194, note), a conclusion in which Schwarz coincides 
(Palest, p. 69, note). See Gabala. 

Gab'ael (T aficrijX v. r. rapaijX ; Yulg. Gabelus'), 
the name of two persons in the Apocrypha. 

1. An ancestor of Tobit (Tobit i, 3). 

2. A poor Jew (Tobit i, 17, Vulg.) of “Rages in 
Media,” to whom Tobias lent (Vulg. sub chirograph) 
deilit ) ten talents of silver, which Gabael afterwards 
faithfully restored to Tobias in the time of Tobit’s dis- 
tress (Tobit i, 14; iv, 1, 20; v, 6; ix ; x, 2). — Smith, 
s. v. Sec Gabrias. 

Gabala (ra(3<iXa'), a place located by Ptolemy in 
Phoenicia (Reland, Paler- st. p. 458), and the scat of one 
of the Palestinian bishoprics (ibid. p. 220). Schwarz 
(Palest, p. 170) refers to Josephus’s mention of a Gali- 
la?an village by this name built by ITerod (Ant. xv, 8, 
5, where, however, the text has Vdfia v. r. rdj3aXa 
and rdfiaXa, evidently the Gaba [q. v.] of other pas- 
sages), and to the Talmudical notices of a Gebul (2“-^ 
border ) ; finding both in “ the village Jehd, three Eng. 
miles N.E. of Beth-Shean,” doubtless the ruins by 
that name marked on Van de Velde’s Map five miles 
N. of Beisan. See Gamala. 



Gabara (rd Vdftapa'), a place several times men- 
tioned by Josephus as one of the principal cities of 
Galilee (Life, § 25, 61 ; comp. 10), thought by Reland 
(Pala-st. ]>. 771) to be also the Gabaroth (P afiapioS) of 
Josephus (Life, § 45, 47), and to have sometimes been 
supplanted by Gadara (q. v.) in that historian’s text 
(IPnr, iii, 7, 1). It was situated twenty stadia from 
Sogane (Josephus, Life. § 51), and was discovered by 
Schulz in the ruins still called JCnbarck, in the speci- 
fied locality (Ritter, Krdk. xvi, 769). They are situa- 
ted on the northern brow of the table-land looking 


down upon the plain of Rameh, and consist of the re- 
mains of a large ancient building, with four cisterns, 
still unbroken, adjoining, and hewn stones strewn 
around over the space of an acre or more (Robinson, 
Luter Bib. Res. p. 86 sq.). 

Gab'atha (YafiaSci), one of the eunuchs of king 
Xerxes, the exposure of whose plots by Mardochaeus 
led to their execution (Esth. xii, 1, Apoer.); evidently 
the Bigthan (q. v.) of the Ileb. text (Esth. ii, 21). 

Gabatha (ra(3a5d), a village (, KMjnj ) mentioned 
only by Eusebius and Jerome (Onomast. s. v. r«/J«- 
Gabathon) as lying on the eastern part of the 
great plain Daroma (Esdraelon), near Diociesarea; a 
position corresponding with that of the modern village 
Jebata , north of the Kishon (Ritter, Erdh. xvi, 748), 
seen but not visited bj^ Robinson (Researches, iii, 201). 
Euseb. and Jerome elsewhere (ib. s. v. rcif3acic, Gaba- 
ath) mention a place of the same name as being twelve 
miles from Elentheropolis, and containing the tomb of 
the prophet Habakkuk (a statement which Reland, 
Palest, p. 772, reconciles with their location of the 
same prophet's tomb at Keilah) ; but this seems to 
have been the Benjamite Gibeah (q. v.). For the 
Gabatha (VafiaSra) of Josephus (Ant. xiii, 1, 4; comp. 
Reland, Palest, p. 772), see the Nadabatha (Nata- 
/3d3) of the Apocrypha (1 Macc. iv, 37). 

Gab'bai (Heb. Gahbay , ^5, tax-gatherer ; Sept. 
rijfiett v. r. r?;/3f), a chief of the tribe of Benjamin, 
who settled in Jerusalem after the captivity (Neh. xi, 
8). B.C. ante 536. 

Gab'batha (T af3[3a$rd, in some MSS. r «/3«37r) 
occurs John xix, 13, where the evangelist states that 
Pontius Pilate, alarmed at last in his attempts to save 
Jesus by the artful insinuation of the Jews, “ If thou 
let this man go thou art not Cesar’s friend,” went 
into the prcetorium again, and brought Jesus out to 
them, and sat down once more upon the f3rjpa or tri- 
bunal, in a place called AiOoorpwTov, but in the Heb. 
Gabhatha. The Greek word, signifying literally stone- 
paved, is an adjective, and is generally used as such 
by the Greek writers ; hut they also sometimes use it 
substantively for a stone pavement, when ilarpog mity 
be understood. In the Sept, it answers to !“!£:»* (2 
Chron. vii, 3; Esth. i, 6). Jerome reads, “Sedit pro 
tribunal] in loco qui dicitur Lithostrotos.” The Greek 
word, as well as the Latin, is frequently used to denote 
a pavement formed of ornamental stones of various 
colors, commonly called a tesselated or mosaic pavement. 
The partiality of the Romans for this kind of pave- 
ment is well known. It is stated by Pliny (Hist. Xat. 
xxxvi, 61) that, after the time of Sylla, the Romans 
decorated their houses with such pavements. They 
also introduced them into the provinces. Suetonius 
relates ( Ccesar , 46) that Julius Cfesar, in his military 
expeditions, took with him the materials of tesselated 
pavements, ready prepared, that wherever he encamp- 
ed they might be laid down in the prsetorium (Casau- 
bon, ad Sueton. p. 38, etc., edition 1605). From these 
facts it has been inferred by maii 3 r eminent writers 
that the ruirog XtOoc-pwroc, or place where Pilate’s tri- 
bunal was set on this occasion, was covered by a tes- 
selated pavement, which, as a piece of Roman magnif- 
icence, was appended to the pradorium at Jerusalem. 
The emphatic manner in which John speaks of it 
agrees with this conjecture. It further appears from 
his narrative that it was outside the pradorium ; for 
Pilate is said to have “come out” to the Jews, who, 
for ceremonial reasons, did not go into it, on this as 
well as on other occasions (John xviii, 28, 29, 38; 
xix, 4, 13). Besides, the Roman governors, although 
they tried causes, and conferred with their council 
(Acts xxv, 12) within the pradorium, always pro- 
nounced sentence in the open air. May not, then, this 
tesselated pavement, on which the tribunal was now 
placed, have been inlaid on some part of the terrace, 


GABDES 


701 


GABRIAS 


etc., running along one side of the prsetorium, and 
overlooking the area where the Jews were assembled, 
or upon a landing-place of the stairs, immediately be- 
fore the grand entrance? 

It has been conjectured that the pavement in ques- 
tion was no other than the one referred to in 2 Chron. 
vii, 8, and by Josephus ( War, vi, 1, 8), as in the outer 
court of the Temple ; but though it appears that Pilate 
sometimes sat upon his tribunal in different places, as, 
for instance, in the open market-place () Par, ii, 9, 3), 
yet the supposition that lie would on this occasion, 
when the Jews were pressing for a speedy judgment, 
and when he was overcome with alarm, adjourn the 
whole assembty, consisting of rulers of every grade, 
as well as the populace, to any other place, is very un- 
likely ; and the supposition that such place was any 
part of the Temple is encumbered with additional dif- 
ficulties. It is suggested by Lightfoot ( Exerc . on 
John, ad loc.) that the word is derived from 35, a sur- 
face, in which case Gabbatha would be a mere trans- 
lation of XtOoorpojron. There was a room in the Tem- 
ple in which the Sanhedrim sat, and which was called 
Gazitli (r*PT5) because it was paved with smooth and 
square tlags; and Lightfoot conjectures that Pilate 
may on this occasion have delivered his judgment in 
that room. Put this is not consistent with the prac- 
tice of John, who in other instances gives the Hebrew 
name as that properly belonging to the place, not as a 
mere translation of a Greek one (compare John xix, 
17). Besides, Pilate evidently spoke from the bema 
— the regular seat of justice — and this, in an important 
place like Jerusalem, would be in a fixed spot. Nor 
in any case could the prajtorium, a Roman residence 
with the idolatrous emblems, have been within the 
Temple. Yet it may be said that the names *} : n3X 
and ’A7 t uWihov, which John introduces in a similar 
way (Rev. ix, 11), are synonymous; and if the word 
Gabbatha be derived, as is usual, from tt35, “to be 
high or elevated,” it may refer chiefly to the terrace, 
or uppermost landing of the stairs, etc., which might 
have been inlaid with a tesselated pavement. Schleus- 
ner understands an elevated mosaic pavement, on 
which the {3iifia was placed, before the praetorium. 
The most natural inference from John’s statement 
is that the word Gabbatha is “Hebrew;” but it has 
been contended that the writers of the New Testament 
used this word by way of accommodation to denote the 
language ( Syriac , or Syro-Chaldee , it is said) which 
was commonly spoken in Judaea in their time, and 
that when John says *E/3p«VoTi, he means in the Syro- 
Chaldaie ; but into the extensive controversy respect- 
ing the vernacular language of the Jews at Jerusalem 
in the time of our Saviour, this is not the place to en- 
ter. It may suffice for the present purpose to remark 
that the ancient Syriac version, instead of Gabbatha, 
reads Gepipthu. Sec Iken, De AifloorpoSrrp (Bremae, 
1725); Lightfoot’s 1 1 r orks. ii, G14, G15 (London, 1G84) ; 
Hamcsvehi, Bibl. Geoyr. ii, 129; Seelen, Med'tt. Exey. 
i, G43. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. Sec Pavement. 

Gab'des (rn/3/3/}t;,Vulg. Gabea ), a man whose de- 
scendants (or rather a place whose natives) returned 
from the captivity (1 Esdr. v, 20) ; evidently the Geba 
(q. v.) of the lleb. text (Ezra ii, 2G). 

Gabe (IYr/3s), a considerable place (jro\i\io), oppi- 
duni) mentioned by Eusebius and Jerome (Onomast. 
s. v. Val3a$u)v, Gabbathon) as lying 16 R. miles from 
Caesarea, in the edge of the plain of Esdraelon ; thought 
by Robinson to be the modern Jebci (i. e. Gibeah), a 
large village on the slope of the range of hills N. of 
Nablus, containing an ancient town (Researches, iii, 
151). It can hardty have been of sufficient importance 
to be commemcrated by the coins found with the in- 
scription “of the Gabinians” (Vafii}vwv y Reland, Pa- 
last. p. 7G9). 

Gabinius (Graecized r afiiviog), Aulus, of un- 


known parentage, from a noted but plebeian family 
of Rome ; one of Pompey’s generals, who was sent into 
Judiea against Alexander (q.v.) and Antigonus (q.v.) 
with proconsular authority, B.C. cir. G4 (Josephus, 
Ant. xiv, 2, 3, 4). He was profligate in his youth (Cic- 
ero, pro Sext. 8, 9, etc.), and was made tribune of the 
people in B.C. GG, praetor in B.C. Gl, and consul in B.C. 
59 ; in all which offices he was active in political in- 
trigues and party measures. On arriving in Syria, he 
made important changes there (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 10 ; 
War, i, G). He restored Hyrcanus at Jerusalem, con- 
firmed him in the high-priesthood, and settled govern- 
ors and judges in the proviifces, so that Judaea from 
a monarchy became an aristocracy. lie established 
courts of justice at Jerusalem, Gadara (or at Dora), 
Amatha, Jericho, and Sepphoris, that the people, find- 
ing judges in all parts of the country, might not be 
obliged to go far from their habitations. On return- 
ing to Rome, Gabinius was prosecuted by the Syrians 
and exiled, B.C. 54. He was recalled bv Julius Cae- 
sar, B.C. 49, and fell in the civil war between the tri- 
umvirs (Appian, lllyr. 12 and 27 ; Bell. Civ. ii, 59 ; 
Dion Cass, xlii, 11, 12). Rachenstcin has written a 
monograph entitled Ueber A. Gabinius (Aarau, 182G). 
See Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v. 

Gabirol. See Geeirol. 

Gabish. See Pearl. 

Gabler, Georg Andreas, son of Johann Phi- 
lipp, was born in Altorf in 178G. He was for several 
years (from 1807) tutor in the family of Schiller at 
Weimar, became in 1811 teacher of the gymnasium of 
Ansbach, in 1817 professor, and in 1821 rector of the 
gymnasium in Bayreuth, in 1824 professor of classical 
literature at the lyceum in the same city, and, after 
the death of Hegel, professor of philosophy at the Uni- 
versity of Berlin. He died in 1853 at Teplitz. He 
wrote Lehrbuch der philosoph. Propddeutik (Erlangen, 
1827, 1 vol.) : — De vene philosophice erya reliyionem 
Christianam pietate (trying to establish the harmony 
between the Christian religion and the Hegelian phi- 
losophy, Berlin, 18GG) ; Beitrage zur richtiycr Beurthei- 
luny d. Jlegclschen Philosophic (Berlin, 1843). (A. J. S.) 

Gabler, Johann Philipp, a German theologian, 
was born June 4, 1753, at Frankfort on the Maine, lie 
studied at the gymnasium of his native city for ten 
years; then at the University of Jena from 1772 to 
1778, under Griesbach and Eichhorn, from whom lie 
received his theological and literary bias. In 1785 he 
Tvas made professor of theology at Altdorf, and in 1801 
he was called to Jena as second to Griesbach, whose 
place he filled after Griesbach’s death in 1812. Here 
he achieved great distinction, both as teacher and writ- 
er, and he was five times chosen prorcctor of the uni- 
versity. In theology lie was an extreme Rationalist. 
He died Feb. 17, 1827. He wrote Entwurf einer Iler- 
meneutik dcs N. T. (Altdorf, 1788) : — Hist.-krit. Einlei- 
tuny ins N. T. (Altdorf, 1789). He is known chiefly by 
his edition of Eichhorn ’s Uryeschichte (Altdorf, 1790-93, 
2 vols.), and the appendix he wrote to it (Versuch fiber 
d. Mosaisclie Schopfunysyeschichte , Altdorf, 1795). From 
1791 to 1800 he edited the Neuestes theologisches Journal 
(begun by Ammon, Hiinlein, and Paulus) ; from 1800 
to 1804 the Journal f. iheol. Literatur ; 1805 to 1811, 
the Journal f. auserlesene theol. Literatur. A collec- 
tion of his essays was published by his sons in 1831 
(Ulm, 2 vols.). — Saintes, Hist, of Rationalism , bk. i, eh. 
xi ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, G32; W. Schroter, Erin- 
nerunyen an J. P. Gabler (Jena, 1827). 

Ga'brias (Vafipiag v. r. rappel, i. e. h*^35, hero 
of Jehovah), according to the present text of the Sept. 
the brother of Gabael,to whom Tobit intrusted (7 rapi- 
B'fro) ten talents of silver (Tob. i, 14), though in an- 
other place (Tob. iv, 20, rtp too Vafipia ; compare 
Fritzsche, Exey. Handb. ad loc.) he is described as his 
father. The readings throughout arc very uncertain, 


GABRIEL 


702 GABRIEL, ST. 


ami in the versions the names are strangely confused. 
It is an obvious correction to suppose that YajS(u)\tfj 
rtp dct\<p<p ng Vappiy should he read in i, 14, as is in 
fact suggested by Cod. F. A., F ajigXqj . . . rig do. rtg 
Vafipti. The misunderstanding of rtg dct\<ptg (comp. 
Tob. i, 10, 1G, etc.) naturally occasioned the omission 
of the article. The old Latin has Gabelo fratri mco 
Jilio Gabuhel; and so also iv, 20. — Smith, s. v. 

Ga'briel (Ileb. Gabriel', champion of 

God ; Sept, and N. T. Vafipu)X), a word which is not in I 
itself distinctive, but merely a description of the an- j 
gelic otlice, used as a proper name or title to designate j 
the heavenly messenger who was sent to Daniel to ex- 
plain the vision of the ram and the lie-goat (Dan. vii), 
and to communicate the prediction of the Seventy 
"Weeks (Dan. ix, 21-27). Under the new dispensation 
lie was employed to announce the birth of John the 
Baptist to his father Zecliariah (Luke i, 11), and that 
of the Messiah to the Virgin Mary (Luke i, 26). See 
Annunciation. (It is also added in the Targtims as 
a gloss on seme other passages of the O. T.) In the 
ordinary traditions, Jewish and Christian, Gabriel is 
spoken of as one of the archangels (q. v.). In Scrip- 
ture he is set forth only as the representative of the 
angelic nature, not in its dignity or power of contend- 
ing against evil [see Michael], but in its ministra- 
tion of comfort and sympathy to man. Ilis promi- 
nent character, therefore, is that of a “fellow-servant” 
of the saints on earth; and there is a corresponding 
simplicity, and absence of all terror and mystery, in 
his communications to men; his own words, “I am 
Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God” (Li ke i, 
19), are rather in favor of the notion of his superior 
dignity. ►See Angel. 

In the Book of Enoch, “the four great archangels, 
Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, and Uriel,” are described 
as reporting the corrupt state of mankind to the Cre- 
ator, and receiving their several commissions. To Ga- 
briel he says, “Go, Gabriel, against the giants, the spu- 
rious ones, the sons of fornication, and destroy the sons 
of the watchers from among the sons of men” ( Greek 
Fragment of the Book of Enoch , preserved by Syncellus 
in Scaliger’s notes on the Chronlcon of Eusebius, Am- 
stel. 1G5S. p. 404). In the Rabbinical writings Gabriel 
is represented as standing in front of the divine throne, 
near the standard of the tribe of Judah (Buxtorf, Lex. 
Talmud, col. 4G). The Rabbins also say that he is the 
Prince of Fire, and appointed to preside over the ripen- 
ing of fruit ; that he was the only one of the angels 
who understood Chaldee and Syriac, and taught Jo- 
seph the seventy languages spoken at the dispersion 
of Babel ; that lie and Michael destroyed the host of 
Sennacherib, and set fire to the Temple at Jerusalem 
(Eisenmenger’s Entd. Judenthums, ii, SG5, 379, 380, 383). 

By the Mohammedans Gabriel is regarded with pro- 
found veneration. To him, it is affirmed, a copy of 
the whole Koran was committed, which he imparted 
in successive portions to Mohammed. He is styled in 
the Koran the Spirit of Truth and the Iloly Spirit. In 
his hands will be placed the scales in which the ac- 
tions of men will he weighed at the last day (D’Hcr- 
belot, Bibliothcque Oricntale, s. v. Gcbrail). — Kitto, s. 
v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Gabriel cle Cliiuon, a French Roman Catnolic 
missionary, was born towards the beginning of the 
17th century. He became a Capuchin, and was sent 
as missionary to Persia about 1G10. He settled at Is- 
pahan, and learned most of the Oriental languages, 
which enabled him to make a great number of prose- 
lytes. The favor lie enjoyed at the court of Shall 
Abbas II excited tbe envy of the Armenian priests, 
who caused him great annoyance. Gabriel withdrew 
about 1GG0 to Tabriz (Tauris or Tebreez, tbe capital of 
the province of Azerbijan, in "North Persia), where he 
founded a convent of Capuchins, and established mis- 
sions in Kurdistan and at Tiflis. About 1G70 he went 


on a mission to Malabar, where he died (at Tellicher- 
ry) June 27, 1G70. lie wrote observations on the 
countries lie had resided in, which were afterwards 
published by Moreri, with a life of Gabriel, under the 
title Relations nouvelles du Levant , on traite de la re- 
ligion, du gouvernement, et des coutumes des Perses, des 
Armeniens et des Gaures (Lyon, 1671, 12mo). They 
contain some curious details on Persian customs and 
manners, but the greater part of the work is taken up 
with details concerning religious questions, Gabriel's 
order, and himself. See Niceron, Memoires pour ser- 
vir a Vhistoire des hommes illustres , xxvii, 311 ; Iloefer, 
Kouv. Blog. Generale , xix, 109. 

Gabriel Sionita, a learned Maronite, was bom 
at Edden, on Mount Libanns, 1574. He came to Koine 
when seven years old, and studied at the Maronite 
College there. He was made professor of Oriental 
languages at Rome. In 1G14 he accompanied the 
French embassador (at Rome) to Paris, and was made 
professor of Arabic at the College de France. In 1G20 
lie became doctor of theology. In 1G30 he began to 
work on Le Jay’s Polyglot Bible, for which he fur- 
nished the Syriac and Arabic versions. He died at 
Paris in 1G48. ■ Of his writings, we name Liber Psal- 
moram ex Arab, in Lat. translatus (Rome, 1G14, 4to) : 
— Grammatica Arabica Maronitarum, in libros v dirisa 
(Paris, 161G, 4to). — Hoefer, Nonv. Biog. Gen. xix, 10G. 



Gabriel, St., Congregation of, the name of 
two monastic congregations in the Roman Catholic 
Church. 1. The first Congregation of St. Gabriel was 
established at Bologna by Cesar Bianehetti, a senator 
of Bologna, who was born May 8, 1585, and after the 
death of his wife in 1G38, devoted himself with great 
zeal to giving religious instruction to the youth and 
the ignorant. In order to obtain aid in liis work he 
established a congregation of lay gentlemen, who, 
without living in common, pledged themselves to pro- 
mote the cause of Christian instruction, and assembled 
on certain days for devotional exercises and for delib- 
eration on their work. Subsequently «a second con- 
gregation was organized of such laymen as preferred 
to live in common, and to devote their whole lives to 
the cause. The latter were called Conriventi , the for- 
mer Conjluenti. The founder died in 1G55. The con- 
gregation does not appear to have spread beyond Bo- 
logna. Members can be received from the eighteenth 
to the fiftieth year of age. The novitiate lasts three 
years, after which the novices may be received into 
the congregation by a two-thirds vote. They have to 
wait three years more before they have the right to 
vote. The officers are elected annually. See Del prat, 
Vita del Yenerab. Servo di Dio Ccsare Bianehetti (Bo- 
logna, 1704). Ilelyot, 

Dictionnaire des Ordres 
Religieux , s. v. 2. An- 
other “Congregation of 
the Brothers of St. Ga- 
briel” has been estab- 
lished in the present 
century .by abbe Des- 
haves in France. The 
object of the congrega- 
tion is to instruct the 
children, especially 
those of the country, in 
the Christian doctrine. 

Abl>6 Deshaycs at first 
acted in concert with 
abbe Jean Marie Robert 
de Lamennais (q. v„), 
but subsequently they 
separated, Lamennais 
organizing the congre- 
gation of the ‘ ‘ Brothers 1Jrother of St. Gabriel, 
of the Christian Instruc- 
tion” (q. v.). The congregation of which Deshaycs 


GABRIELITES 


703 


GAD 


remained the superior assumed in 1885 the name of | 
“ Congregation of brothers of St. Gabriel,” after the 
patron saint of the founder. Abbe Deshayes died in 
1811. In 1858 the congregations had 73 establishments 
and about 400 members. Every fifth year the congre- 
gation elects a superior general, who may be re-elect- 
ed after the expiration of his term. The head estab- 
lishment of the congregation is at St. Laurent de Sevre. 
See Migne, Diet, dcs Ordns Rdig. vol. iv, s. v. (A. 
J. S.) 

Gabrielites. See Anabaptists. 

G-aches, Raymond, a French Protestant divine, 
was born at Castres towards 1G15. In 1G49 he was 
appointed pastor of Ills native city, where he soon be- 
came distinguished as a preacher. In 1G54 he was 
called to Paris to supply the ProtesUr.t church of Cha- 
renton. lie died at Paris in December, 1GG8. During 
his sojourn at Castres he contributed to the formation 
of an academy, which did not last long, but counted 
among its members many distinguished men. He 
published a number of separate sermons, sixteen of 
which have been collected under the title Seize Sei - 
mons sur dijfirents sirjets (Geneva, 1GG0, 8vo). See 
Ilaag, La France Protestante, s. v. ; 1 foefer, Nouv. Bing. 
Gener. xix, 120 ; Vinet, Hist, dz la Predication (Paris, 
I860, 8 vo, § 7, p. 28G-302). 

Gad (Ileb. id. T5, fortune, Gen. xxx, 11, although 
another signification is alluded to in Gen. xlix, 19 ; 
Sept, and N. T. Poe), the name of two men, and of the 
descendants of one of them ; also of a heathen deity 
and of a plant. See also Baal-Gad; Migdal-Gad. 

1. (Josephus PdJacO Jacob’s seventh son, the 
first-born of Zilpah, Leah’s maid, and whole-brother 
to Asher (Gen. xxx, 11-13; xlvi, 1G, 18), born autumn 
B.C. 1915. The following account is largely from the 
article in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible. See Jacob. 

1. As to the name, there are several interpretations : 
(a.) The passage in which the bestowal of the name of 
Gad is preserved — like the others, an exclamation on 
his birth — is more than usually obscure: “And Leah 
said, ‘ In fortune’ ( be-gad , *133), and she called his name 
Gad” (Gen. xxx, 11). Such is supposed to be the 
meaning of the old text of the passage (the Kethib ) ; so 
it stood at the time of the Sept., which renders the key- 
word by iv rv\y, in -which it is followed by Jerome 
in the Vulg .feliciter. In his (latest, in Genesim,Je rome 
has in fortuna. Josephus (Ant. i, 19, 8) gives it still a 
different turn — rvx(dog=fortuitous. But in the mar- 
ginal emendations of the Masoretes (the Keri) the word 
is given ‘IS N3, “Gad has come.” This construction 
is adopted by the ancient versions of Onkelos, Aquila 
(yXOtv ?/ Zwaig), and Symmachus (t)X0tv Trici). (5.) 
In the blessing of Jacob, however, we find the name 
played upon in a different manner: “Gad” is here 
taken as meaning a piratical band or troop (the term 
constantly used for which is g dud', T^TS), and the al- 
lusion — the turns of which it is impossible adequately 
to convey in English — would seem to be to the irregu- 
lar life of predatory warfare which should be pursued 
by the tribe after their settlement on the borders of the 
Promised Land. “ Gad, a plundering troop ( geduel ' ) 
shall plunder him ( ye-gud-en'nu ), but he will plunder 
C V a ~g m O the] heel” (Gen. xlix, 19). Jerome (De 
Benedict. Jacobi) interprets this of the revenge taken 
by the warriors of the tribe on their return from the 
conquest of Western Palestine for the incursions of the 
desert tribes during their absence, (c.) The force here 
lent to the name has been by some partially transferred 
to the narrative of Gen. xxx, e. g. the Samaritan ver- 
sion, the Veneto-Greek, and our own A.V. (uniting this 
with the preceding) — “a troop (of children) eometh.” 
But it must not be overlooked that the word gedud — 
by which it is here sought to interpret the gad of Gen. 
xxx, 11 — possessed its own special signification of tur- 
bulence and fierceness, which makes it hardly applica- 


ble to children in the sense of a number or crowd, the 
image suggested by the A. V. Exactly as the turns 
of Jacob’s language apply to the characteristics of the 
tribe, it does not appear that there is any connection 
between his allusions and those in the exclamation of 
Leah. The key to the latter is probably lost. To 
suppose that Leah was invoking some ancient divinity, 
the god Fortune, who is conjectured to be once alluded 
to — and once only — in the latter part of the book of 
Isaiah, under the title of Gad (Isa. lxv, 11 ; A.V. “that 
troop;” Gesenius, “dem Gluck”), is surely a poor ex- 
planation. See below, 3. 

2. Of the childhood and life of the individual Gad 
nothing is preserved. At tlio time of the descent into 
Egypt seven sons are ascribed to him, remarkable from 
the fact that a majority of their names have plural ter- 
minations, as if those of families rather than persons 
(Gen. xlvi, 1G). The list, with a slight variation, is 
again given on the occasion of the census in the wil- 
derness of Sinai (Numb, xxvi, 15-18). See Akod; 
Ezbon ; Ozni. 

Tribe of Gad. — The position of Gad during the 
march to the Promised Land was on the south side of 
the tabernacle (Numb, ii, 14). The leader of the tribe 
at the time of the start from Sinai was Eliasaph, son 
of Reuel or Deuel (ii, 14 ; x, 20). Gad is regularly 
named in the various enumerations of the tribes through 
the wanderings — at the dispatching of the spies (xiii, 
15), the numbering in the plains of Moab (xxvi, 3, 15) 
— but the only inference we can draw is an indication 
of a commencing alliance with the tribe which was 
subsequently to be his next neighbor. He has left the 
more closely-related tribe of Asher to take up his posi- 
tion next to Reuben. These two tribes also preserve 
a near equality in their numbers, not suffering from 
the fluctuations which were endured by the others. 
At the first census Gad had 45,G50, and Reuben 40,500 ; 
at the last Gad had 40,500, and Reuben 43,330. This 
alliance was doubtless induced b} r the similarity of 
their pursuits. Of all the sons of Jacob, these two 
tribes alone returned to the land which their forefathers 
had left five hundred years before with their occupa- 
tions unchanged. “ The trade of thy slaves hath been 
about cattle from our youth even till now” — “we are 
shepherds, both we and our fathers” (Gen. xlvi, 34 ; 
xlvii, 4) — such was the account which the patriarchs 
gave of themselves to Pharaoh. The civilization and 
the persecutions of Egypt had worked a change in the 
habits of most of the tribes, but Reuben and Gad re- 
mained faithful to the pastoral pursuits of Abraham, 
Isaac, and Jacob ; and at the halt on the east of Jordan 
we find them coming forward to Moses with the repre- 
sentation that they “have cattle” — “a great multitude 
of cattle,” and the land where they now are is a “ place 
for cattle.” What should they do in the close pre- 
cincts of the country west of Jordan with all their 
flocks and herds? Wherefore let this land, they pray, 
be given them for a possession, and let them not be 
brought over Jordan (Numb, xxxii, 1-5). They did 
not, however, attempt to evade taking their proper 
share of the difficulties of subduing the land of Canaan, 
and after that task had been effected, and the appor- 
tionment amongst the nine and a half tribes completed 
“at the doorway of the tabernacle of the congregation 
in Shiloh, before Jehovah,” they were dismissed by 
Joshua “to their tents,” to their “wives, their little 
ones, and their cattle,” which they had left behind 
their in Gilead. To their tents they went — to the dan- 
gers and delights of the free Bedouin life in which they 
had elected to remain, and in which — a few partial 
glimpses excepted — the later history allows them to 
remain hidden from view. 

The country allotted to Gad appears, speaking 
roughly, to have lain chiefly about the centre of the 
land east of Jordan. The south of that district — from 
the Arnon (wady Mojeb), about half way down the 
Dead Sea, to Ileshbon, nearly due east of Jerusalem — 


GAD 


'704- 


GAD 


was occupied by Reuben, and at or about Heshbon the 
j'ossessions of Gad commenced. They embraced half 
Gilead, as the oldest record specially states (I)eut. iii, 
12), or half the land of the children of Ammon (Josh, 
xiii, 25), probably the mountainous district which is 
intersected by the torrent Jabbok — if the wady Zurka 
be the Jabbok — including as its most northern town 
the ancient sanctuary of Mahanaim. On the east the 
furthest landmark given is “ Aroer, that faces Kab- 
bah,” the present Amman (Josh, xiii, 25). The Ara- 
bian desert thus appears to have been the eastern 
boundary. West was the Jordan (Josh, xiii, 27). The 
northern boundary is somewhat more difficult to de- 
fine. Gad possessed the whole Jordan valley as far as 
the Sea of Galilee (xiii, 27), but among the mountains 
eastward the territory extended no farther north than 
the river Jabbok. The border seems to have run diag- 
onally from that point across the mountains by Malia- 
naim to the southern extremity of the Sea of Galilee 
(Josh, xii, 1-6; xiii, 26, 30, 31; Deut. iii, 12, 13; sec 
Porter’s Damascus , ii, 252). The territory thus con- 
sisted of two comparatively separate and independent 
parts, (1) the high land on the general level of the 



country east of Jordan, and (2) the sunk valley of the 
Jordan itself; the former diminishing at the Jabbok, 
the latter occupying the whole of the great valley on 
the east side of the river, and extending up to the very 
Sea of Cinnereth or Gennesaret itself. 

Of the structure and character of the land which 
thus belonged to the tribe — “the land of Gad and Gil- 
ead” — we have only vague information. From the 
western part of Palestine its aspect is that of a wall of 
purple mountain, with a singularly horizontal outline ; 
here and there the surface is seamed by the ravines, 
through which the toi rents find their way to the Jor- 
dan, but this does not much affect the vertical wall- 
like look of the range. But on a nearer approach in 
the Jordan valley, the horizontal outline becomes bro- 
ken, and when the summits are attained a new scene 
is said to burst on the view. “A wide table-land ap- 
pears, tossed about in wild confusion of undulating 
downs, clothed with rich grass throughout ; in the 
southern parts trees are thinly scattered here and 
there, aged trees covered with lichen, as if the relics 
of a primeval forest long since cleared aw T ay ; the 
northern parts still abound in magnificent woods of 
sycamore, beech, terebinth, ilex, and enormous fig- 
trees. These dow’ns are broken by three deep defiles, 
through which the three rivers of the Yarmuk, the 
Jabbok, and the Arnon fall into the valley of the Jor- 
dan and the Dead Sea. On the east they melt a>vay 
into the vast red plain, which by a gradual descent 
joins the level of the plain of the Hauran, and of the 
Assyrian desert” (Stanley, Palestine , p. 320). It is a 
very picturesque country — not the “flat, open downs of 
smooth and even turf” of the country round Heshbon 
! (Irby, p. 142), the sheep-walks of Reuben and of the 
Moabites, but “most beautifully varied w r ith hanging 
woods, mostly of the vallonia oak, laurestinus, cedar, 
arbutus, arbutus andrachne, etc. At times the coun- 
try had all the appearance of a noldc park” (ib. p. 147), 
“graceful hills, rich vales, luxuriant herbage” (Por- 
ter, llandb. p. 310). See Gilead. 

Such was the territory allotted to the Gadites; but 
there is no doubt that they soon extended themselves 
beyond these limits. The official records of the reign 
of Jotham of Judah (1 Chron. v, 11, 16) show them to 
have been at that time established over the whole of 
Gilead, and in possession of Bashan as far as Salcah — 
the modern Sulkhad, a tow r n at the eastern extremity 
of the noble plain of the Hauran — and very far both 
to the north and the east of the border given them 
originally, w hile the Manassites were pushed still fur- 
ther northwards to Mount Hermon (1 Chron. v, 23). 
They soon became identified wfith Gilead, that name 
so memorable in the earliest history of the nation ; 
and in many of the earlier records it supersedes the 
name of Gad, as we have already remarked it did that 
of Bashan. In the song of Deborah, “ Gilead” is said 
to have “ abode beyond Jordan” (Judg. v, 17). Jeph- 
tliali appears to have been a Gadite, a native of JNliz- 
peh (Judg. xi, 34 ; compare 31, and Josh, xiii, 26), and 
yet he is always designated “the Gileadite;” and so 
also with Barzillai of Mahanaim (2 Sam. xvii, 27 ; 
Ezra ii, 61 ; comp. Josh, xiii, 26). 

The following is a list of all the Biblical localities 
in this tribe, with their probable identifications : 


Abel-cenumn. 

Town. 

[Mcrj-Ekkch] ? 

, Abel-shittim. 

do. 

[On Wady Siir] ? 

Argob. 

District. 

Ha jib. 

Aroer. 

Town. 

A i reh. 

[ Atnroth-shophan. 

do. 

[K. of Merj-Ekkcli] ? 

Bet him rah (Beth-) 

Ford. | 

[Opposite Beth-barah (in 

any). f 

Mnnassch)] ? 

Bcth-aram, or) 
Beth-linran f 

Town. 

Lcit-Haran. 

1 Beth-nimrah. 

do. 

Ximrin. 

| Betonim. 

do. 

Jiatneh. 

(Arnon. 

do. 

r Retimin'] ? 

Bobir. 

do. 

See Lo-pebab. 

Galeed. 

Stone-heap. 

See Gilead. 

Gerasa [Gergesa?]. 

Town. 

./ 'crash. 

j Gilead. 

Mount. 

Jcbel Osha. 


GAD 


*705 


GAD 


Holon, or Horonaim. Town. 

Juazer. 

do. 

Jabbok. 

River. 

Jabe?h. 

Town. 

Jazer. 

do. 

Jega r-sahadutha. 

Stone - 

Jogbehah. 

Town. 

Lo- debar. 

do. 

Madina. 

do. 

Mahanaim. 

do. 

Mizpeli. 

do. 

Nimrah, or Nimriin. 

do. 

Pentel, or Fennel. 

do. 

Hamath -mizpeth, 1 


or Ramoth -Gil- V 

do. 

ead ) 


Rogelim. 

do. 

Sihon. 

do. 

Succoth. 

do. 

Zaphon. 

do. 


[Nwr] ? 

Seir. 

Wadu Zurka. 

Ed- Dei r, on Wady Jabes? 

Sej jAAZEIt. 

. See Ctaleed. 
lEl-Jebcibeh ] ? 
lEt-TaijibeLy. 

[ Dahere.t cl- demarl ? 
Mahnch. 

See K a moth. 

See Beth-Nimrait. 

[X. of Wady Zurka.] 

Es-Salt . 

[,'JjZun] ? 

Shihan. 

[At the Bridge S. of Wady 
Ajlun] ? 

[S. of Wady Zurka]. 


The character of the tribe is throughout strongly 
marked — fierce and warlike — “strong men of might, 
men of war for the battle, that could handle shield and 
buckler, their faces the faces of lions, and like roes 
upon the mountains for swiftness.” Such is the 
graphic description given of those eleven heroes of 
Gad — “the least of them more than equal to a hun- 
dred, and the greatest to a thousand” — who joined 
their fortunes to David at the time of his greatest dis- 
credit and embarrassment (1 Chron. xii,8), undeterred 
by the natural difficulties of “flood and field” which 
stood in their way. Surrounded as they were by 
Ammonites, Midianites, Ilagarites, “Children of the 
East,” and all the other countless tribes, animated by 
a common hostility to the strangers whose coining had 
dispossessed them of their fairest districts, the warlike 
propensities of the tribe must have had many opportu- 
nities of exorcise.. One of its greatest engagements is 
related in 1 Chron. v, 19-22. Here their opponents 
were the wandering Ishmaelitish tribes of Jetur, Ne- 
pliish, and Nodab (comp. Gen. xxv, 15), nomad people, 
possessed of an enormous wealth in camels, sheep, and 
asses, to this day the characteristic possessions of their 
Bedouin successors. This immense booty came into 
the hands of the conquerors, who seem to have entered 


with it on the former mode of life of their victims : 


probabh r pushed their way further into the Eastern 
wilderness in the “steads” of these Ilagarites. An- 
other of these encounters is contained in the history 
of Jephthab, but this latter story develops elements 
of a different nature and a higher order than the mere 
fierceness necessary to repel the attacks of the plun- 
derers of the desert. In the behavior of Jephthah 
throughout that affecting history there are traces of a 
spirit which we may almost call chivaleresque; the 
high tone taksn with the elders of Gilead, the noble 
but fruitless expostulation with the king of Ammon 
before the attack, the hasty vow, the overwhelming 
grief, and yet the persistent devotion of purpose, sure- 
ly in all these there are marks of a great nobility of 
disposition, which must have been more or less char- 
acteristic of the Gadites in general. If to this we add 
the loyalty, the generosity, and the delicacy of Bar- 
zillai (2 Sam. xix, 82-39), we obtain a very high idea 
of the tribe at whose head were such men as these. 
Nor must we, while enumerating the worthies of Gad, 
forget that in all probability Elijah the Tishbite, “who 
was of the inhabitants of Gilead,” was one of them. 


But, while exhibiting these high personal qualities, 
Gad appears to have been wanting in the powers nec- 
essary to enable him to take any active or leading part 
in the confederac}' of the nation. The warriors, who 
rendered such assistance to David, might, when Ish- 
boshetli set up his court at Mahanaim as king of Is- 
rael, have done much towards affirming his rights. 
Had Abner made choice of Sheehem or Shiloh instead 
of Mahanaim — the quick, explosive Ephraim instead 
of the unready Gad — who can doubt that the troubles 
of David’s reign would have been immensely in- 
creased, perhaps the establishment of the northern 
kingdom antedated by nearly a century? David’s 

nr . — y x 


presence at the same city during his flight from Absa- 
lom produced no effect on the tribe, and they are not 
mentioned as having taken any part in the quarrels 
between Ephraim and Judah. 

Cut oft’ as Gad was by position and circumstances 
from its brethren on the west of Jordan, it still retain- 
ed some connection with them. We may infer that it 
was considered as belonging to the northern kingdom 
— “ Know ye not,” says Ahab in Samaria, “know yo 
not that Ramoth in Gilead is ours, and we be still, and 
take it not out of the hand of the king of Syria?” (1 
Kings xxii, 3). The territory of Gad was the battle- 
field on which the long and fierce struggles of Syria 
and Israel were fought out, and, as an agricultural 
pastoral country, it must have suffered severely in 
consequence (2 Kings xx, 33). 

Gad was carried into captivity by Tiglath Pileser 
(1 Chron. v, 26), and in the time of Jeremiah the cities 
of the tribe seem to have been inhabited by the Am- 
monites. “Hath Israel no sons? hath he no heir? 
why doth Maleham (i. e. Moloch) inherit Gad, and his 
people dwell in his cities ?” (xlix, 1). See Reland, Pa- 
luest. p. 1G2 sq. ; Burckhardt, Trav. in Syria , p. 345 sq. 

2. (Josephus rdtfoc, Ant. vii, 13, 4.) “The seer” 
(iTThn), or “the king’s seer,” i. e. David’s — such ap- 
pears to have been his official title (1 Chron. xxix, 29 ; 
2 Chron. xxix, 25; 2 Sam. xxiv, 11 ; 1 Chron. xxi, 9) 
— was a “ prophet” (*022), who appears to have joined 
David when in “the hold,” and at whose advice he 
quitted it for the forest of Hareth (1 Sam. xxii, 5), B.C. 
1061. Whether he remained with David during his 
wanderings is not to be ascertained : we do not again 
encounter him till late in the life of the king, when he 
reappears in connection with the punishment inflicted 
for the numbering of the people (2 Sam. xxiv, 11-19 ; 

I Chron. xxi, 9-19), B.C. cir. 1016. But he was evi- 
dently attached to the royal establishment at Jerusa- 
lem, for he wrote a book (see Chronicles, Book of) 
of the Acts of David (1 Chron. xxix, 29), and also as- 
sisted in settling the arrangements for the musical ser- 
vice of the “house of God,” by which his name was 
handed down to times long after his own (2 Chron. 
xxix, 25). In the abruptness of his introduction Gad 
lias been compared with Elijah (Jerome, Qn. Ilebr. on 1 
Sam. xxii, 5), with whom he may have been of the 
same tribe, if his name can be taken as denoting his 
parentage, but this is unsupported by any evidence. 
Nor is there any apparent ground for Ewald’s sugges- 
tion ( Gesch . iii, 116) that he was of the school of Sam- 
uel. If this could be made out. it would afford a nat- 
ural reason for his joining David. — Smith, s. v. See 
David. 

3. The name Gad (with the art. ‘IJil ; Sept. Satpo- 

viov v. r. or, according to the reading of Je- 

rome and of some MSS., rv\i]) is mentioned in fsa. Ixv, 

II (A.V. “ troop”). The word, by a combination with 
the Arabic, may be legitimately taken to denote for- 
tune (see Pococke, Spec. Hist. Arab. p. 140). So Ge- 
senius, Hitzig, and Ewald have taken Gad in their 
respective versions of Isaiah, rendering the clause, 
“ who spread a table to fortune.” This view, which 
is the general one, makes fortune in this passage to be 
an object of idolatrous worship. There is great disa- 
greement, however, as to the power of nature which 
this name was intended to denote, and, from the scanty 
data, there is little else than mere opinion on the sub- 
ject. The majority, among whom are some of the 
chief rabbinical commentators (see Buxtorf, Lex. TcOm. 
col. 1034), as well as Gesenius, Munter, and Ewald. 
consider Gad to be the form under which the planet Ju- 
piter was worshipped as the greater star of good fortune 
(see especially Gesenius, Comm, iiber den Jesaia. ad loe.). 
Others, among whom is Vitringa, suppose Gad to have 
represented the Sun, while Huetius regards it as a rep- 
resentative of the Moon, and Movers, the latest writer 
of any eminence on Syro-Arabian idolatry, takes it to 


GAD 


GADARA 


10 G 


have been the planet Venus ( Die Phmicier , i, G50). See 
Bel. Un the other hand, if Gad be derived from 
na in the sense of to to crowd, it may mean a 

troop , a heap (to which sense there is an allusion in 
Gen. xlix, 19) ; and Hoheisel, as cited in Rosenmuller’s 
Scholia , ad loc., as well as Deyling, in his Observat. 
Miscell. p. G73, have each attempted a mode by which 
the passage might be explained if Gad and Meni were 
taken in the sense of troop and number (see further 
Dav. Mill’s diss. ad loc. iu his JDiss. Selectee , p. 81-132). 
— lvitto, s. v. See Meni. 

Some have supposed that a trace of the Syrian wor- 
ship of Gad is to be found in the exclamation of Leah, 
when Zilpali bare a son (Gen. xxx, 11), X.2, ba-gad, 
or, as the Kcri has it, N3, “Gad, or good fortune 
cometh.” The Targum of Pseudo-Jonathan and the 
Jerusalem Targum both give “a lucky planet com- 
eth, ” but it is most probable that this is an interpreta- 
tion which grew r out of the astrological beliefs of a later 
time, and we can infer nothing from it with respect to 
the idolatry of the inhabitants of Padan Aram in the 
age of Jacob. That this later belief in a deity Fortune 
existed, there are many things to prove. Buxtorf 
{Lex. Talni. s. v.) says that anciently it was a custom 
for each man to have in his house a splendid couch, 
which was not used, but was set apart for “ the prince 
of the house,” that is, for the star or constellation For- 
tune, to render it more propitious. This couch was 
called the couch of Gada, or good-luck (Talm. Babb 
Sanhed. f. 20 a ; Xedarim, f. 5G o'). Again, in Bereshith 
Rabba, § Go, the words in Gen. xxvii, 31, 

are explained as an invocation to Gada or Fortune. 
Rabbi Moses the Priest, quoted by Aben-Ezra (on Gen. 
xxx, 11), says “that T.'b (Isa. lxv, 11) signifies the 
f.t .r of luck, which points to everything that is good, 
for thus is the language of lvedar (Arabic) ; but he 
says that N- (Gen. xxx, 11) is not used in the same 
sense.” Illustrations of the ancient custom of placing 
a banqueting table in honor of idols will be found in 
the table spread for the sun among the Ethiopians 
(Herod, iii, 17, 18), and in the feast made by the Baby- 
lonians for their god Bel, which is described in the 
apocryphal history of Bel and the Dragon (comp, also 
Herod, i, 181, etc.). The table in the temple of Belus 
is described by Diodorus Siculus (ii, 9) as being of beat- 
en gold, 40 feet long, 15 wide, and weighing 500 talents. 
On it were placed two drinking-cups Qcapxh(Tia) weigh- 
ing 80 talents, two censers of 300 talents each, and three 
golden goblets, that of Jupiter or Bel weighing 1200 
Babylonian talents. The couch and table of the god 
in the temple of Zeus Tryphilius at Patara, in the island 
of Panclnea, are mentioned by Diodorus (v. 4G ; comp, 
also Virgil, sEn. ii, 7G3). In addition to the opinions 
which have been referred to above, may be quoted that 
of Stephen le Moyne (I7ir. Sacror. p. 3G3), who says 
that Gad is the goat of Mendes, worshipped by the 
Egyptians as an emblem of the sun ; and of Le C'lerc 
{Comm, in /*r<.)an<l Lakemacher {Obs. Phil, iv, 18, etc.), 
who identify Gad with llecate. Macrobius {Sat. i, 19) 
tells ns that in the later Egyptian mythology T v\)) was 
worshipped as one of the four deities who presided over 
birth, and was represented by the moon. This will ; 
perhaps throw some light upon the rendering of the 
Sept, as given by Jerome. Traces of the worship of 
Gad remain in the proper names Baal Gad and Gid- 
deneme (Plant. Pern, v, 3), the latter of which Gescni- 
us (J Ion. Plum. p. 407) renders !T2"3 *13, “favoring 
fortune” (comp. Wirtli, De Gad et MeniJudeeorum hodi- 
ernortnn diis, Altorf, 1725). — Smith, s. v. See Baal. 

4. For the plant gad, see Coriander. 

Gadara (r« rVv&vpa in Josephus, prob. from *“13, 
a wall [see Gederaii] ; only 'in N. T. in the Gentile 
IVroor(n/i/dr), a strong city (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 13, 3), 
situated near the river llieromax (Pliny, II. X. v, 1G), 


east of the Sea of Galilee, over against Scythopolis and 
Tiberias (Eusebius, Onomasticon , s. v.), and 10 lloman 
miles distant from each of those places {I tin. Anton. 
ed. Wess. p. 19G, 198; Tab. Peat.'), or GO stadia from 
the latter (Joseph. Life, § G5). It stood on the top of 
a hill, at the loot of which, upon the banks of the Hie- 
[ romax, three miles distant, were warm springs and 
I baths called Amatlia {Onom. s. v. iEtham and Gadara ; 

| I tin. Ant. Martyr.). Josephus calls it the capital of 
, Pera?a {War, iv, 3), and Polybius says it was one of 
the most strongly fortified cities in the country (v, 71, 
3). A large district was attached to it, called by Jo- 
sephus Gadaritis {V neaping, War, iii, 10, 10) ; tetrabo 
also informs us that the warm healing springs were 
“in the territory of Gadara” (tu t?j Vctcapiei, Grog. 
xvi). They -were termed Thermae Helise, and were 
reckoned inferior only to those of Baias (Enseb. Ono - 
mast A). According to Epiplianius {eidv. Ilceres. i, 131), 
a yearly festival was held at these baths (Reland, p. 
775). The caverns in the rocks are also mentioned by 
Epipbanius (/. c.) in terms which seem to show r that 
they were in his day used for dwellings as well as for 
tombs. Gadara itself is not mentioned in the Bible, 
but it is evidently identical with the “country of the 
Gadarenes” {\iopa or 7r(pix<opog ruin Tavap?]vojy t Xiav]z 
v, 1 ; Luke viii, 2G, 37). 

Gadara seems to have been founded and chiefly in- 
| habited b} T Gentiles, for Josephus says of it, in conjunc- 
| tion with Gaza and Hippos, “they were Grecian cit- 
' ies” {Ant. xvii, 11,4). The first historical notice of 
Gadara is its capture, along with Pella and other cit- 
ies, by Antiochus the Great, in the year B.C. 218 (Jo- 
seph. Ant. xii, 3, 3). About twenty years afterwards 
it was taken from the Syrians by Alex. Jannams, after 
a siege of ten months {Ant. xiii, 13, 3; IFar, i, 4, 2). 
The Jew's retained possession of it fur some time ; but 
the place having been destroyed during their civil 
wars, it was rebuilt by Pompev to gratify his freedman 
Demetrius, who was a Gadarene ( War, i, 7, 7). When 
Gahinius, the proconsul of Syria, changed the govern- 
ment of Judaea by dividing the country into five dis- 
tricts, and placing each under the authority of a coun- 
cil, Gadara was made the capital of one of these dis- 
tricts ( War, i, 8, 5). The territory of Gadara, with 
the adjoining one of Hippos, was added by Augustus 
to the kingdom of Herod the Great (.•!«*. xv, 7, 3); 
from which, on the death of the latter, it was sundered, 
and joined to the province of Syria (Joseph. War. ii. 6, 
3). According to the present text of the Jewish his- 
torian, Gadara was captured by Vespasian on the first 
outbreak of tlic war with the Jews, all its inhabitants 
massacred, and the town itself, with the surrounding 
villages, reduced to ashes (Joseph. War , iii, 7, 1); hut 
there is good reason to believe (see Robinson, Later 
Bib. Res. p. 87, note) that the place there referred to 
is Gadara (q. v.). However that may have been, Ga- 
dara was at this time one of the most important cities 
cast of the Jordan (Joseph. War, iv, 8, 3). Stephen of 
Byzantium (p. 254) reckoned it a part of Coele-Svria, 
and Pliny {Hist. Xat. v, 1G) a part of the Decapolis 
(comp. William of Tyre, xvii, 13). At a later period 
it was the seat of an episcopal see in Palrestina Secun- 
da, whose bishops arc 
named in the councils 
of Nice and Ephesus 
(lleland, Pa best, p. 17G, 

215, 223, 22G). It is 
also mentioned in the 
Talmud (Reland, p. 

775; Bitter, Erdk. xvii, 

318). For coins, see 
Eekhel {Doctr. Xum. 
iii, 348). It fell to ru- 
ins soon after the Mo- 
hammedan conquest, 
and has now been de- 
serted for centuries, Coin of Gadara. 



GADARA 


707 


GADSDEN 


with the exception of a few families of shepherd?, who 
occasionally find a home in its rock-hewn tombs. 

Most modern authorities (Baumer, in his Paldstina , 
Burckhardt, Seetzen) lintl Gadara in the present vil- 
lage of Um-keis. Buckingham, however, identifies 
this with Gamala (1'rav. in Palest, ii, 252 sq.) ; though 
it may be added that his facts, if not his reasonings, 
lead to a conclusion in favor of the general opinion. 
On a partially isolated hill at the north-western ex- 
tremity of the momituins of Gilead, about sixteen miles 
from Tiberias, lie the extensive and remarkable ruins 
of Um-Keis. Three miles northward, at the foot of 
the hill, is the deep bed of the Sheriat el Mandhur, the 
ancient Hicromax ; and here are still the warm springs 
of Amatha (see Irby and Mangles, p. 2 ( J8 ; Lindsay, ii, 
97,. 98). On the west is the Jordan valley ; and on the 
south is wad\ r el ’Arab, running parallel to the Mand- 
hur. Um-Keis occupies the crest of the ridge between 
the two latter wadvs ; and as this crest declines in ele- 
vation towards the cast as well as the west, the situa- 
tion is strong and commanding. The city formed 
nearly a square. The upper part of it stood on a level 
spot, and appears to have been walled all round, the 
acclivities of the hill being on all sides exceedingly 
steep. The eastern gate of entrance has its portals 
still remaining. The prevalent orders of architecture 
are the Ionic and the Corinthian. The whole space 
occupied by the ruins is about two miles in circumfer- 
ence, and there are traces of fortifications all round, 
though now almost completely prostrate. These ruins 
bear testimony to the splendor of ancient Gadara. On 
the northern side of the hill is a theatre, ami not far 
from it are the remains of one of the city gates. At 
the latter a street commences — the via recta of Gadara 
— which ran through tile city in a straight line, having 
a colonnade on each side. The columns are all pros- 
trate. On the west side of the hill is another larger 
theatre in better preservation. Tli.e principal part of 
flic city lay to the west of these two theatres, on a 
level piece of ground. Now not a house, not a column, 
not a wall remains standing; yet the old pavement of 
the main street is nearly perfect, and here and there 
the traces of the chariot-wheels are visible on the 
stones, reminding one of the thoroughfares of Pompeii. 
Buckingham speaks of several grottoes, which formed 
the necropolis of the city, on the eastern brow of the 
hill. The first two examined by him were plain cham- 
bers hewn down so as to present a perpendicular front. 
The third tomb had a stone door, as perfect as on the 
day of its being first hung. The last was an excavated 
chamber, seven feet in height, twelve paces long, and 
ten broad ; within it was a smaller room. Other tombs 
were discovered by Buckingham as he ascended the 
hill. He entered one in which were ten sepulchres, 
ranged along the inner wall of the chamber in a line, 
being pierced inward for their greatest length, and di- 
vided by a thin partition left in the rock, in each of 
which was cut a small niche for a lamp. Still more 
tombs were found, some containing sarcophagi, some 
without them; all, however, displaying more or less 
of architectural ornament. One of the ancient tombs 
was, when our traveller saw it, used as a carpenter's 
shop, the occupier of it being employed in constructing 
a rude plough. A perfect sarcophagus remained with- 
in, which was used by the family as a provision-chest. 
See Burckhardt, Syria, p. 270 sq. ; 1’orter, in Journal 
of Sue. Lit . vi, 281 sq. ; ITackett, Jllustr. of Script, p. 
190; Traill’3 Josephus, i, 115. 

Gadara derives its greatest interest from having 
been the scene of our Lord's miracle in healing the 
demoniacs (Matt, viii, 28-34; Mark v, 1-21; Luke 
viii, 20-40). “They ware no clothes, neither abode 
in any house, but in the tombs.” Christ came across 
the lake from Capernaum, and landed at the south- 
east tii corner, where the steep, lofty bank of the east- 
ern plateau breaks down into the plain of the Jordan. 
The dremoniacs met him a short distance from the 


shore ; on the side of the adjoining declivity the “great 
herd of swine” were feeding; when the diemons went 
among them the whole herd rushed down that “steep 
place” into the lake and perished ; the keepers ran up 
to the city and told the news, and the excited popula- 
tion came down in haste, and “ besought Jesus that he 
would depart out of their coasts.” The whole circum- 
stances of the narrative arc thus strikingly illustrated 
by the features of the country. Another thing is wor- 
thy of notice. The most interesting remains of Gadara 
are its tombs , which dot the cliffs fora considerable dis- 
tance round the city, chiefly on the north-east decliv- 
ity, but many beautifully-sculptured sarcophagi are 
scattered over the surrounding heights. They are ex- 
cavated in the limestone rock, and consist of chambers 
of various dimensions, some more than 20 feet square, 
with recesses in the sides for bodies. The doors are 
slabs of stone, a few being ornamented with panels ; 
some of them still remain in their places (Porter, Da- 
mascus , ii, 51). The present inhabitants of Tm-Keis 
are all troglodytes, “dwelling in tombs,” like the poor 
maniacs of old, and occasionally they are almost as 
dangerous to the unprotected traveller. — In the above 
account, in the Gospel of Matt, (viii, 28), we have the 
word Gergesenes (ftpyta^vdiv, instead of Vadapipntn’), 
which seems to be the same as the Hebrew a 
(Sept. Ttpytaaioc) in Gen. xv, 21, and I)eut. vii, 1— 
the name of an old Canaan itish tribe [see Girgash- 
ites], which Jerome (in Comm, ad Gen. xv) locates on 
the shore of the Sea of Tiberias. Origen also says 
(Opp. iv, 140) that a city called Gergesa anciently stood 
on the eastern side of the lake. Even were this true, 
still the other Gospels would be strictly accurate. 
Gadara was a large eit}', and its district would include 
Gergesa. But it must be remembered that the most 
ancient MSS. give the word Vepaai]vun\ while others 
have Vacapyjviov — the former reading is adopted by 
Griesbach and Lachmann, while Sehoiz prefers the 
latter ; and either one or other of these seems prefera- 
ble to repyeoijvun'. — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. See 
Geras a. 

Gadarene (ravapyjvocj), an inhabitant of Gada- 
ra (q. v.), occurring only in the account of the de- 
moniacs cured by Christ (Mark v, 1 ; Luke viii, 2G, 37), 
and perhaps to be read in the third Evangelist (Matt, 
viii, 28) instead of Geiigesexe (q. v.). 

Gaddah. Sec Hazar-Gaddau. 

Gad'di (I-Ieb. Gaddi ', fortunate ; Sept. I V?t), 
son of Susi, of the tribe of Manasseh, sent bv Moses 
as the representative of that tribe among the twelve 
“spies,” on their exploring tour through Canaan 
(Numb, xiii, 11). B.C. 1G57. 

Gad'diel (Heb. GaddieV , fortune [i. e. sent] 

of God; Sept. Vaccu}\ v. r. Poun/'/A), son of Sodi, of 
the tribe of Zebulon. He represented that tribe among 
the twelve “spies” sent by Moses to explore Canaan 
(Numb, xiii, 10), B.C. 1G57. 

Gader. See Beth-Gader. 

Ga'd:. (Heb. Gadi', ““tj, a Gadite ; Sept. I ac t v. r. 
TadSi and iVca), the father of the usurper Menahcm, 
who slew Shalluin, king of Israel (2 Kings xv, 14, 17), 
B.C. ante 7G9. 

Gad'ite (Heb. Gadi', “HJ, mostly collect, and with 
the art. ; Sept. r«t>, VcJci, vibg FaJ, etc.'), the descend- 
ants of Gai» (q. v.), the son of Jacob (Numb, xxxiv, 
14; Deut. iii, 12, 1G; iv, 43; xxix, 8; Josh, i, 12; xii, 
G ; xiii, 8 ; xxii, 1 ; 2 Sam. xxiii, 36 ; 2 Kings x, 33 ; 
1 Chron. v, 18, 2G ; xii, 8, 37 ; xxvi, 32). 

Gadsden, Christopher, DHX, Protestant Epis- 
copal bishop of South Carolina, was born in Charles- 
ton Nov. 25, 1785. His early training was partly Epis- 
I copal and partly Congregational. In 1804 he passed 
A.ll. of Yale College, where he formed a lasting friend- 
I ship with John C. Calhoun. He was ordained deacon 


GAETANUS 


70S 


GAILLARD 


in 1807, and priest in 1810. In 1808 lie took charge of 
St.John’s, Berkley, and soon after became assistant : 
minister of St. Philip’s, Charleston, of which he be- 
came rector in 1814, and in connection with which he 
spent the residue of his life. In 1810 he founded the 
Protestant Episcopal Society in South Carolina, which 
has proved an important auxiliary to clerical education 
and missionary effort. In 1814 he became rector of St. 
Philip’s, Charleston, and the following year was made 
1X1 ). by the College of S. 0. lie was elected bishop in 
1840, and in the earnest discharge of his duties gave , 
particular attention to the spiritual interests of the col- 
ored people, lie was distinguished for thorough learn- 
ing and deep piety. He died in Charleston June 24, i 
1852. He published The Prayer-book as it is; three j 
charges to his clergy, entitled The Times morally con- 
sider d, The Times ecclesiastically considered , and The j 
Times theologically considered ; and some Sermons. — 
Sprague, Annals , v, 510. 

Gaetanus. See Cajetan. 

Gaflarel, Jacqttes, a French mystic, was born at 
Mamies, in Provence, in 1G01, and studied at Valence, 
lie showed special aptitude for Oriental and cabalistic 
studies, and was made librarian at Paris to cardinal 
Richelieu. In 1025 he published Abdita diviner Ca- 
bal e Mystena (4to) ; and got into trouble by Curiosi- 
tez inovyez sur la sculpture tali&nwniqiie dis Persuns 
(Paris, 1629-30, also 1631, 1637, and in Latin, Cttr.osi- 
tates Inauditce [Hamburg, 170G, 8vo]), which was con- 
demned hv the Sorbonne. In 1632 he went to Koine, 
and became intimate with Leo Allatins. He travelled 
in Italy, Greece, and Asia ; and on his return to Paris 
received several valuable Church preferments. He 
devoted himself to reclaiming Protestants, but was 
himself charged with preaching against purgatory. 
Bayle hints that he did this by order, in order to se- 
duce Protestants. He died in 1C81. Among his writ- 
ings, other than those mentioned, are Dies Domini , sice 
define mundi, etc. (Paris, 1629, 12mo) : — Index Codicum 
cabal isticonm qidbns zisus cst Joannes Miramlulanus 
(Paris, 1651) : — Histoire universelle du morale sou ter- 
rain (1CC6, fob). — Bayle, Dictionary , s. v. ; Hoefer, 
Nouv. Bing. Generate , xix. 146. 

Gage, Thomas, an English divine, noted especial- 
ly for his conversion from Koman Catholicism, was born 
in Haling, in Surrey, about 1597. lie entered into the 
Dominican order in Spain, after which he was sent as 
a missionary to the Philippine Islands ; but instead of 
going thither, he went to Mexico, and then to Guate- 
mala, where lie spent ten years in missionary labors 
among the Indians. He returned to England in 1637, 
after an absence of twenty-four years, during which 
lie had forgotten his native language. On examining 
into his domestic affairs, he found himself unnoticed in 
his father’s will, forgotten by some of his relations, 
and with difficulty acknowledged by others. While 
abroad he had imbibed doubts of Romanism, and now 
he resolved to take another journey to Italy, to “try 
what better satisfaction he could find for his conscience 
at Rome in that religion.” At Loretto his conversion 
from Popery w as completed by his observation of the 
false miracles attributed to the picture of the A^irgin 
there, and on his return home lie preached a recanta- 
tion sermon at St. Paul’s, by order of the bishop of 
London. He continued above a year in London, but 
soon received from the parliamentary party the living 
of Deal, in Kent. II is accounts of the West Indies 
and Spanish America gave rise to the expedition of 
admiral Penn against Jamaica in 1655. Page accom- 
panied the fleet, and died of dysentery at Jamaica 
(1655). He published his Recantation Sermpn (1642): 
a piece entitled A Dud fought betireen a Jesuit and a 
Dominican (4to) ; and Survey of the 1 1 'est Indies *(16-18, 
and again in 1655, fol.). This- work was greatly ad- 
mired, and was soon translated into most European 
languages. See Hook, Peeks. Bioyr. v, 243 ; Echard, 


Script . On!. Pmdicatorum , vol. ii ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog , 
Generate , xix, 151. 

Gage, William, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Salem, Mass., Nov. 16, 1797. lie graduated at Am- 
herst College in 1828, then entered Andover Theolog- 
ical Seminary, where he graduated in 1831. lie was 
licensed to preach the same year, and was settled in 
1832 pastor over the churches of Concord and Pisgali, 
Ohio, w here he remained until his death. He early 
espoused the anti-slavery view's for which the presby- 
tery of Chillicothe has been so long distinguished. 
Upon one occasion his house was pelted with eggs and 
stones, and he himself w-as threatened with tar and 
feathers if he would not desist from preaching and 
praying on the subject. He kept on in bis course, 
however. lie died July 9. 1863. — Wilson, Presbyterian 
J linanac , vi, 150. 

Gagelin, Frax^ots Isidore, a French missionary 
and martyr, was born at Mont-Pereux (Doubs), May 
5, 1799, and educated at I>esam;on, and at the seminary 
of Foreign Missions at Paris. Having been appointed 
subdeacon, he embarked at Bordeaux in Dec.. 1820, 
for Cochin China, and in 1822 was consecrated priest 
by bishop Labarthe. The Christian religion had been 
I tolerated in Cochin Chinn, since April 22, 1774, hut the 
example of Tonquin, where it was strictly prohibited, 
was not without influence. In 1820 Mihn-Mehn as- 
1 cended t lie tin one, and soon gave evidences of his dis- 
like towards the new religion, yet did not begin perse- 
i cuting the Christians until 1826. At that time the 
' bonzes and mandarins addressed a petition to the em- 
peror, asking for the expulsion of the missionaries. 
The Jesuits, becoming alarmed, fled ; but Gagelin, less 
fortunate than his colleagues, w r as arrested and brought 
back to Ilue-Fo. He was, however, permitted to con- 
tinue his missionary efforts, and in 1828 was allowed, 
to settle in the province of Dong Nai ; lmt a strife be- 
tween the different sects led to a general edict against 
the Christians, Jan. 6, 1833. Gagelin was again taken 
to Hue, and hung, Oct. 11, 1833. — Francois Perenncs, 
Vie de Vabbe Gagelin (Besnucon, 1836, 12mo) ; Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate , xix, 154 sq. (J. N. P.) 

Gagnier, Jean, a French divine and Orientalist, 
was born in Paris about 1G70. He was bred a Roman 
Catholic, entered into holy orders, and became a car.on 
in the abbey of St. Genevieve, but became a Protestant 
and settled in England. He was patronized by arch- 
bishop Sharp and other eminent persons, and received 
the degree of M.A. at Cambridge and Oxford, lie 
obtained the Arabic professorship at Oxford in 1715, 
and died in 1740. He published an edition of Ben 
Gorion’s “History of the Jews,” in Hebrew, with a 
Latin translation and notes (Oxf. 1706, 4to): — Vindiciec 
Kirch rian.ee (Oxf. 1718, fol.): — IJeglise Rom aine con- 
vainene d’klolatrie (La Have, 1706, Svo) : — Vie de Ma- 
homet, traduite cl compilie de V Alcoran (Amst. 1732, 2 
vols.). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. Genir. xix, 166. 

Ga'ham (Heb. Gach'am , ens, “in pause” Ga ' - 
cham, EHit; perhaps, having flaming eyes ; otherwise, 
sirarthy ; Sept. Vactp v. r. Too//), one of the sons of 
Nahor hv his concubine Remnah (Gen. xxii, 24), B.C. 
cir. 2200* 

Ga'har (Ileb. Gach'ar , “ in pause” G a' char, 

“ins, a lurking-place ; Sept. Fadp), one of the chief 
Nethinim whose descendants returned with Zcrubbn- 
bel from the captivity to Jerusalem (Ezra ii, 47 ; Neh. 
vii, 49), B.C. ante 536. 

Gaianitae. A Monophysite sect of the 6th centu- 
ry, which derived its name from Gain mis, bishop of Al- 
1 exandria, who denied that Jesus Christ, after the hypo- 
statical union, was, subject to any of the infirmities of 
human nature. See Eutyciiianjsm. 

Gailer of Kaiseisburg. See Geti.ee. 
i Gaillard, Jacques, a French Protestant tlieolo- 


GAISFORD 


709 


GALANTE 


gian, was born at Montauban towards 1620. He be- 
came professor of philosophy in the Protestant acade- 
my of that city, but in 1659, certain disorders arising 
in the schools, lie was expelled from Montauban, and 
resolved to quit the country. He went to Holland, 
and in 1662 became pastor of the Walloon church of 
Bois-le-Due. He was subsequently director of the 
College of Leyden, and afterwards professor of theolo- 
gy in the university. lie wrote Gencalogia Cliristi , 
cum enodatione diflieultatum qiue occumint in evangeliis 
J fat thee i et Lucai (Leyden, 1683, 8vo): — Melchisedecus 
Christ ns, units rer. justitije et rex pads, sen exercitationes 
xii de Me’chlsedeco (Leyd. 1686, 8vo). See E. Benoit, 
Ilist. ch Vedit de Xantes (iii, p. 320-322 ; Bayle, Nouv. 
de h Repnblique des Lettres (1684); Haag, La France 
Frotestante, s. v. 

G-aisford, Tiiowas, D.I).,an English divine and 
eminent classical scholar, was born in Wiltshire, Dee. 
22, 1779. lie was educated at Winchester school, 
where he was noted for his proficiency in Greek. He t 
entered Christ Church, Oxford, in 1797, and was eleet- I 
ed a student in 1800 hy the unanimous suffrage of the 
chapter. He proceeded B.A. June 3, 1801, and M.A. 
April 11, 1801. He acted for several years as tutor in 
his college. His edition of the Enchiridion of IF phais- 
tion , published in 1810, established his reputation as an 
accurate and profound scholar. In 1811 he was made 
regius professor of Greek, and, after a number of val- 
uable preferments, in 1831 he was made dean of Christ 
Church, which office he Oiled most ably till his death, 
J une 2, 1855. So high was his reputation as a classical 
scholar that he was eleeted a member of the Institute 
of France and of the lloyal Academy of Munich. In 
private life he “did justly, loved mercy, and walked 
humbly before God.” The list of his classical publi- 
cations is too great to be published here ; among them 
were editions, in whole or in part, of Euripides, Plato, 
Aristotle, Herodotus, Sophocles. In theological liter- 
ature he edited, besides other works, the following: 
Ck rrobosci Dictata in Theolosii Citnones , necnon Epimer- 
ismi in Psahnos (3 vols. 1842) : — Eusebii Eclogre Prophet- 
ical (1842) : — Eusebii PrcepanVio Evangdica (1843) : — 
Pearsoni Adversaria Hesgchltna (2 vols. 1844): — Ety- 
mologicon Magnum (fol. 1848): — Yctus Testament um cr 
Version e LXX Intcrp. (3 vols. 12mo, 1848) : — Stobai Ec- 
logre Physical et Ethical (2 vols. 1850) : — Eusebius contra 
Ilieroclem et Marcellum (1852): — Eusebii Dcmonstratio 
Ec angelica (2 vols. 8vo, 1852) : — Theodoreti Uistoria 
Ecclcsiastica (1854). — Hardwick, Annual Biogr. (Lond. | 
1850, 12m o). 

Gaius (r«Vo£, for Lat. Caius, a common Roman 
name), the name of three or four men in the N. T. 

1. A Macedonian, and fellow-traveller of Paul, who 
was seized by the populace at Ephesus (Acts xix, 29), 
A.D.51. 

2. A man of Derbe (an epithet which some have 
very unnaturally transferred to Timothy) who accom- 
panied Paul in his last journey to Jerusalem (Acts xx, 

4) , A.D. 55. 

3. An inhabitant of Corinth with whom Paul lodged, 
and in whose house the Christians were accustomed to 
assemble (Rom. xvi, 23; 1 Cor. i, 14), A.D. 55. He 
was perhaps the same with one of the preceding. 

4. A Christian (probably of Asia Minor) to whom 
John addressed his third epistle (3 John 1), A.D. cir. 
92. See John, Epistles of. There is no good rea- 
son for regarding him as identical with either of the 
foregoing (Wolf, Curce, ad loe.). 

Gaius, Dp.. See Caius. 

Gal, Saint. See Gall. 

Gal'aad (r«\ade, 1 Mace, v, 9, 55 ; Jud. i, 8 ; xv, 

5) and the country of Gala ad (,) ra\aac7ng , Ga- 
laaditis , 1 Mace, v, 17, 20, 25, 27, 36, 45 ; xiii, 22), a 
Graecized form of the word Gilead (q. v.). 


Ga'lal (Heb. Gala V , bbj, perhaps weighty; Sept. 
To j\?/\, Va\i\, FaXciaA), the name of two Levites aft- 
er the exile. 

1. A descendant of Jeduthun, and father of Shemai- 
ah or Shammua (1 Chron. ix, 16; Nell, xi, 17), B.C. 
ante 536. 

2. One of those who dwelt in the villages of the 
Netophathitcs and served at Jerusalem (1 Chron. ix, 
15), A.D. 536. 

Galanos, Demetrios, a Greek scholar, was born 
in Athens in 1760. He studied at Missolonglii, and 
subsequently at Patmos, where he remained six years 
perfecting himself in Greek learning. At the end of 
this time he was sent for by his uncle, Gregory, bishop 
of Cnesarca, who desired him to enter the priesthood. 
But Demetrios was resolved to devote himself to let- 
ters, and went to Calcutta as tutor in the family of a 
wealthy Greek in 1786. “After remaining six years 
in Calcutta, pursuing the study of the English, and 
also of the Sanscrit, Persian, and other Oriental lan- 
guages, in addition to his duties as an instructor, he 
resolved to devote himself henceforth wholly to phi- 
losophy. Investing the property which lie had ac- 
quired while there in a commercial establishment, he 
removed to Benares. Here he assumed the dress of a 
Brahmin, and lived in this way for forty years, re- 
speeted alike b}’- the native population and by Euro- 
pean residents. He undertook the task of translating 
the most important portions of the Brahminiea! litera- 
ture relating to philosopln^ into Greek. 'When he was 
seventy years old he began to think of returning to 
his native land, lmt he died with this wish unfulfilled, 
May 3, 1833. He bequeathed to the University of 
Otho, at Athens, all his library, consisting of Sanscrit 
books and MS. translations from them into Greek. 
Six or eight volumes of these translations have been 
published by the librarian of the university, and are 
found in the collection of modern Greek literature in 
the library of Harvard University. In this selection 
are included translations of the Vhagavata Purana, 
the Gita, the Dourga, and a portion, or, rather, an 
epitome of the Mahabharata, the most extensive and 
the most celebrated of all the works of Indian litera= 
turc.” — Watchman and Reflector , Nov. 7, 1861. 

Galante, Abraham ben-Mordecai, a Cabal- 
ist and Jewish commentator of the 16th century. He 
was a disciple of the new-school Cabalist, Moses Cor- 
dovero, and is best known by his mystical commen- 
tary on the Lamentations (S^ro rs^p), published, 
with additions, by Ibn-Shoeb under the title b^p 

(Venice, 1589; 2d ed. Prague, 1621). Galante wrote 
also a commentary on the Soliar (or Zohar) (q. v.), en- 
titled '“p" 1 rrv, extending over the Pentateuch, but 
of which only the first part, on Genesis, was printed 
under the title nsn -nST7 (Venice, 1655). The MS. 
of the unpublished parts of this work remain unedited 
in the Oppenheim Library. Jost (p. 237) says that 
the name of Galante’s father was originally Mordecai 
Angelo , but that he, on account of his beauty, was 
called Galante, or, rather, Galant’uomo, in Rome, 
where he lived. When his sons, Abraham and Mo- 
ses, afterwards emigrated to Palestine, they retained 
the new name of their father. — Jost, Gesch . d. Jnden - 
thums u. s. Sekten, iii, 150; Etheridge, Introd. to Jlebr. 
Lit. p. 360, 418 ; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. i, 313. (J. II. W.) 

Galante, Moses ben-Mordecai, brother of 
Abraham (see above), was president of the celebrated 
Jewish college for rabbins at Safed. His nriSp 
-invrn, Index to Soliar {Zohar) (Venice, 1666; 2d ed. 
Frankf. a. M. 1681), explains all the passages of the 
O. T. occurring in the Zohar (q. v.). This book ex- 
hibits the manner in which the Messianie passages of 
the Old Test, are treated in the Talmud and Cabba- 
la. Wc have also from him a commentary on Eccle- 


GALATIA 


GALATIA 


no 


siastes rbinp, Safed, 1578), which is illustrated 

throughout with extracts from the Sohar. The time 
of his death is a matter of much dispute, Robinson 
{Biblical Researches in Palestine, ii, 430) and Ftirst 
give it 1G18 ; Stcinschneider (Catul. lit . hebr. in Bib- 
lioth. Bodkiana) places it much earlier, but Jost says 
that he was sixty-eight years old at the time of his 
death (1080), which would be impossible, as Abraham 
Galante is said to have died about 1000. — Kitto, Enry- 
clep. of Bib. Lit. ii, 52; Jost, Gesch. d. Judenthums u.s. 
Sekten, iii, 237 ; Ftirst, Bibl. Jud. i, 313. (J. H. W.) 

Gala'tia (PaXorm, also [Acts xvi, G; xviii, 23] 
y VaXariKt ) \wp«), an important central district of 
Asia Minor (q. v.). 

Galatia is literally the “Gallia” of the East. Ro- 
man writers call its inhabitants Galli, just as Greek 
writers call the inhabitants of ancient France VaXarcu 
(see Pritchard, Nat. Hist, of Man, iii, 05). From the 
intermixture of Gauls and Greeks (Pausan. i, 4), Gala- 
tia was also called Gallo~Grcecia {V uXXoypu ikui , Stra- 
bo, xii, 5), and its inhabitants Gallo-Gnnci. But even 
in Jerome’s time they had not lost their native lan- 
guage ( Prol . ad Comment, in Ep. ad Gal. ; De Wette’s 
Lthrbuch , p. 231). In 2 Tim. iv, 10, some commenta- 
tors suppose Western Gaul to be meant, and several 
MSS. have VaXXiav instead of Fa\fin«r. In 1 Mace, 
viii, 2, where Judas Maecabieus is hearing the story 
of the prowess of the Romans in conquering the P«- 
Xci-cti, it is possible to interpret the passage either of 
the Eastern or Western Gauls ; for the subjugation of 
Spain by the Romans, and the defeat of Antiochus, 
king of Asia, are mentioned in the same context. 
Again, rYtXrtrar is the same word with K eXrai ; and 
the Galatians were in their origin a stream of that 
great Celtic torrent (apparently Ivyinry, and not Gael) 
which poured into Macedonia about B.C. 2b0 (Strabo, 
iv, 187 ; xii, 5GG; Livy, xxxviii, 1G; Flor. ii, 11 ; Jus- 
tin, xxv, 2; Appian, Syr. xxxii, 42). Some of'these 
invaders moved on into Thrace, and appeared on the 
shores of the Hellespont and Bosporus, when Nico- 
medes 1, king of Bithynia, being then engaged in a 
civil Avar, invited them across into Asia Minor to assist 
him against his brother, Zybcetas (Memnon, ap. rhot. 
Cod. 224, p. 374), B.C. eir. 270. Having accomplished 
this object, they were unwilling to retrace their steps ; 
and, strengthened hy the accession of fresh hordes 
from Europe, they overran Bithynia and the neighbor- 
ing countries, and supported themselves by predatory 
excursions, or by imposts exacted from the native 
chiefs. Antiochus I, king of Syria, took his title of 
►Soter in consequence of his victory over them. After 
the lapse of forty years, Attalus I, king of Pergamus, 
succeeded in checking their nomadic habits, and con- 
fined them to a fixed territory within the general geo- 
graphical limits, to which the name of Galatia was 
permanently given. The Galatians still found vent 
for their restlessness and love of war hy hiring them- 
selves out as mercenary soldiers. This is doubtless 
the explanation of 2 Mace, viii, 20, which refers to 
some struggle of the Seleucid princes in which both 
Jews and Galatians were engaged. In Josephus (117/?’, 
i, 20, 3) we find some of the latter, who had been in 
Cleopatra’s body-guard, acting in the same character 
for Herod the Great. Meanwhile the wars had been 
taking place which brought all the countries round 
the east of the Mediterranean within the range of the 
Roman power. The Galatians fought on the side of 
Antiochus at Magnesia. In the Mithridatic war they 
fought on both shies. Of the three principal tribes 
(Strabo, xiii, 129), the Trocmi (Tpoir/ioi) settled in the 
eastern part of Galatia, near the banks of the Ilalvs; 
the Tectosagos (Ttfcroeroyfr) in the country round An- 
cvra ; and the Tolistobogii (ToXnrro/loytm) 'in the 
south-western parts near Pessinus. They retained 
their independence till the year B.C. 189, when they 
were brought under the power of Rome In' the pro- 


consul Cn. Manlius (Livy, xxxviii : Polvb. xxii, 24), 
though still governed by tiieir own princes. Their 
government was originally republican (Pliny, v, 42), 
but at length regal (Strabo, xii, 390), Deiotarus being 
their first king (Cicero, pro lJeiot. 13), and the last 
Amyntas (Dio Cass, xlix, 32), at whose death, in the 
year B.C. 25, Galatia became a province under the 
empire (see Ritter, Erdkunde, xviii, 597-G10). 



(Join of Galatia, with the Head of the ltoman Kmperoi-. 


The Roman province of Galatia may be roughly de- 
scribed as the central region of the peninsula of Asia 
Minor, with the provinces of Asia on the west, Cappa- 
docia on the east, Pamphylia and Cilicia on the south, 

| and Bithynia and Pontus on the north (Strabo, xii, 
5GG ; Pliny, v, 42; Ammian. MarcelL xxv, 10). It 
would be difficult to define the exact limits. In fact, 
they were frequently changing. (See Smith’s Diet, of 
j Class. Geogr. s. v.) Under the successors of Augus- 
tus, the boundaries of Galatia were so much enlarged 
that it reached from the shores of the Euxine to the 
Pisidian Taurus. In the time of Constantine a new 
division was made, which reduced it to its ancient lim- 
its ; and by Theodosius 1, or Valens, it was separated 
into Galatia Primtt, the northern part, occupied by 
the Trocmi and Teetosages, and Galatia Setnnda, or 
J Salutaris: Ancyra was the capital of the former, and 
Pessinus of the latter. Thus at one time there is no 
doubt that this province contained Pisidia and Lyca- 
onia, and therefore those towns of Antioch, Iconiuni, 
Lystra, and Derbe, which arc conspicuous in the nar- 
rative of Paul’s travels. But the characteristic part 
of Galatia lay northward from those districts. On the 
mountainous (Flor. ii, 12), but fruitful (Strabo, xii, 5G7) 
table-land between the Sungari us and the Ilalys, the 
Galatians were still settled in their three tribes, the 
Teetosages, the Tolistobogii, and tire Trocmi, the first 
j of which is identical in name with a tribe familiar to 
! us in the history of Gaul, as distributed over the Ce- 
vennes near Toulouse (Caesar, Bell. Gall. iv. 24 ; comp, 
i Jablonsky, De lingua Lycacniea, p. 23 sq.). The three 
capitals were respectively Tavium, Pessinus, and An- 
! cyra. The last of these (the modern Angora) was the 
| centre of the roads of the district, and may be regard- 
ed as the metropolis of the Galatians. These Eastern 
I Gauls preserved much of their ancient character, and 
something of their ancient language. At least Jerome 
says that in his day the same language might be heard 
I at Ancyra as at Treves: and he is a good witness, for 
he himself had been at Treves. The prevailing speech, 
however, of the district was Greek (Livy, xxxvii, 8; 

I xxxviii, 12; Flor. ii, 11; see Spanhcim, ad Callim. 
Del. 184). Hence the Galatians were called Gallo- 
grieci (Manlius in Livy, xxxviii, 17). The inscriptions 
found at Ancyra are Greek, and Paul wrote his epistle 
in Greek. (See Penny Cyclopedia, s. v. Celtic, Gala- 
tia; Mannert’s Geographic der Grieehcn und Rbmer, vi, 

I 3, eh. 4; Merlcker’s Lehrbuch der IJistoristhconipara- 
) tircji Geographic, iv, 1, p. 284.) 

1 1 is difficult, at first sight, to determine in what sense 
the word Galatia is used by the writers of the N. T., 
or whether always in the same sense. In the Acts of 
the Apostles the journeys of Paul through the district 
are mentioned in very general terms. We are simply 
, told (Acts xvi, G) that on his second missionary circuit 
he went with Silas and Tiniotheus “through Phrygia 
I and the region of Galatia” (cat tuv 4>pvyi(n' Kai rt)v 


GALATIAN 


711 


GALATIANS 


TaXarncyv xupar'). From the Epistle, indeed, we have | 
this supplementary information, that an attack of sick- 
ness ( ci daGivetav rijg owcpdf, Gal. iv, 13) detained him 
among the Galatians, and gave him the opportunity of 
preaching the Gospel to them, and also that he was re- 
ceived by them with extraordinary fervor (ib. 14, 15) ; 
but this docs not inform us of the route which he took. 
So oil the third circuit he is described (Acts xviii, 23) 
as “ going over all the country of Galatia and Phrygia 
in order” (ctfpxdptvog KaOtlZyq n)v raXttriKijv ywpo r 
icai dymyirn'). AVe know from the first Epistle to the 
Corinthians that on this journey Paul was occupied 
with the collection for the poor Christians of Judies, 
and that he gave instructions in Galatia on the subject 

(ujfT7T(p £lST(t%a TCUQ tKK\l]<7tCtl£ Tlj(J V rtXrtWrtC, 1 Col*. 

xvi, 1) ; hut here again \vc are in douht as to the places 
which he had visited. AVc observe that the “church- 
es” of Galatia are mentioned here in the plural, as in 
the opening of the Epistle to the Galatians themselves 
(Gal. i, 2). From this we should be inclined to infer 
that lie visited several parts of the district, instead of 
residing a long time in one place, so as to form a great 
central church, as at Ephesus and Corinth. This is in 
harmony with the phrase y VaXaTtui) \topct, used in 
both instances. Since Phrygia is mentioned first in 
one case, and second in the other, we should suppose 
that the order of the journey was different on the two 
occasions. Phrygia also being not the name of a Ro- 
mnn province, but simply an ethnographical term, it 
is natural to conclude that Galatia is used here hv 
Luke in the same general way. In confirmation of 
his view, it is worth while to notice that in Acts ii, 9, 
10, where the enumeration is ethnographical rather 
than political, Phrygia is mentioned, and not Galatia, 
while the exact contrary is the case in 1 Pet. i, 1, 2, 
where each geographical term is the name of a prov- 
ince (see Coiivbearc and Ilowson, Life and Epistles of 
JSt. Paul , i, 243). 

The Epistle to the Galatians was probably written 
very soon after Paul’s second visit to them. Its ab- 
ruptness and severity, and the sadness of its tone, are 
caused by their sudden perversion from the doctrine 
which the apostle had taught them, and which at first 
they had received so willingly. It is no fancy if we 
see in this fickleness a specimen of that “impetuous, 
mobile, impressible spirit” which Thierry marks as 
characteristic of the Gaulish race (Hist, des Gaulois , 
Introd. i v, v). From Josephus (A nt. xvi, G, 2) we know 
that many Jews were settled in Galatia, but Gal.iv, 8 ' 
would lead us to suppose that Paul’s converts were 
mostly Gentiles. The view advocated by Bottger 
(Schanplafz der Wirksamhit des A pastels Paulas , p. ' 
28-30, and the third of his Bcitriit p, p. 1-5) is that the 
Galatia of the Epistle is entirely limited to the district ' 
between Derhe and Colossaj, i. e. the extreme southern 
frontier of the Homan province. On this view the visit j 
alluded to by the apostle took place on his first mis- 
sionary circuit, and the daQkvua of Gal. iv, 13 is identi- 
fied with the effects of the stoning at Lystra (Acts xiv, I 
19). Geographically this is not impossible, though it 
seems unlikely that regions called Pisidia and Lycaonia 1 
in one place should be called Galatia in another, Bott- 
ger’s geography, however, is connected with a theory 
concerning the date of the Epistle (see Uiickert, in his 
Miff) iz. far Exegese , i, 98 sq.), and for the determination 
of this point we must refer to the article on the Gala- 
tians, The Epistle to the. (See Schmidt, De Gala- 
tis [Tlfeld. 1748, 178-1] ; Mynster, I\ l cine theol. Schrft. 
p. 60 sq. ; Cellarii Notit. ii, 173 sq. ; Forbiger, A Itc Gear/. 
ii,361 sq.; Hofmann, De Galatia Antiqua [hips. 1726] ; 
AVernsdorf, De. rcpubl.Galatar. [Norimb. 17-13] ; Ham- 
ilton, Asia Minor , i, 379). — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. 

Gcila'tian (PVoVdn/r), the patrial designation (1 
Macc. viii, 2; 2 Macc. viii, 20; Gal. iii, 1) of an inhab- 
itant of Galatia (q. v.). 

GALATIANS, Epistle to the, the fourth in or- j 


der of the Pauline epistles of the N. T., entitled sim- 
ply, according to the best MSS. (see Tischondorf, X. T. 
ad loe.), 7 rpuq raXaraq. (See the Mercersburq Review , 
Jan. 1861.) 

I. Authorship. — With regard to the genuineness and 
authenticity of this epistle, no writer of any credit or 
respectability has expressed any doubts. Its Pauline 
origin is attested not only by the superscription which 
it bears (i, 1), if this be genuine, but also bv frequent 
allusions in the course of it to the great apostle of the 
Gentiles (comp. i. 13-23; ii, 1-14). It is corroborated 
also by the style, tone, and contents of the epistle, 
which are perfectly in keeping with those of the apos- 
tle’s other writings. The testimony of the early 
Church on this subject is most decided and unanimous 
(see Lardner, TEorE?, vol. ii). Besides express refer- 
ences to the epistle (Trenants, liter, iii, 7, 2; v, 21, 1 ; 
Tertullian, De Eraser. ch. GO, aE), we have one or two 
direct citations found as early as the time of the apos- 
tolic fathers (Polyc. ad Phil. ch. 3), and several appar- 
ent allusions (see Davidson, Introd. ii, 318 sq.). The 
attempt of Bruno Bauer ( Kritik der Paulin. Brief e, 
Berlin, 1850) to demonstrate that this epistle is a com- 
pilation of later times, out of those to the Romans and 
to the Corinthians, has been treated by Meyer with a 
contempt and a severity (lorm/f, p. vii ; Einlcit. p. 8) 
which, it docs not seem too much to say, are completely 
deserved. 

II. Occasion , etc. — The parties to whom this charac- 
teristic letter was addressed are described in the epis- 
tle itself as “the churches of Galatia” (i, 2; comp, iii, 
1) in Asia Minor, otherwise called Gallogrsecia (Stra- 
bo, xii, 5GG) — a province that bore in its name its well- 
founded claim to a Gallic or Celtic origin (Patisanias, 
i, 4), and that now, after an establishment, first by 
predatory conquest, and subsequently by recognition 
but limitation at the hands of neighboring rulers 
(Strabo, L c. ; Patisanias, iv, 5), could date an occu- 
pancy, though not an independence, extending to more 
than three hundred years; the first subjection of Ga- 
latia to the Romans having taken place in R.C. 189 
(Livy, xxxviii, 16 sq.), and its formal reduction (with 
territorial additions) to a regular Roman province in 
A.D. 26. See Galatia. Into this district the Gospel 
was first introduced by Paul himself (Acts xvi, G ; Gal. 
i, 8 ; iv, 13, 19). Churches were then also probably 
formed, for on revisiting this district some time after 
his first visit it is mentioned that he “strengthened 
the disciples” (Acts xviii, 23). These churches seem 
to have been composed principally of converts directly 
from heathenism (ch. iv, 8), but partly, also, of Jewish 
converts, both pure Jews and proselytes. Unhappily, 
the latter, not thoroughly emancipated from early 
opinions and prepossessions, or probably influenced by 
Judaizing teachers who had visited these churches, 
had been seized with a zealous desire to incorporate 
the rites and ceremonies of Judaism (especially cir- 
cumcision, ch. v, 2, 11, 12; vi, 12 sq.) with the spirit- 
ual truths and simple ordinances of Christianity. (See 
Cruse, De statu Galatarum , etc., Hafn. 1722.) So ac- 
tive had this party been in disseminating their views 
on this head through the churches of Galatia, that the 
majority at least of the members had been seduced to 
adopt them (i, G; iii, 1, etc.). To this result it is prob- 
able that the previous religions conceptions of the Ga- 
latians contributed ; for, accustomed to the worship of 
Cybele, which they had learned from their neighbors 
the Phrygians, and to theosophistic doctrines with 
which that worship was associated, they would be the 
more readily induced to believe that the fulness of 
Christianity could alone be developed through the sym- 
bolical adumbrations of an elaborate ceremonial (Nean- 
dor, A postolisches Zei taller, 2d edit. p. 400). It would 
seem that oil his last visit to this region, Paul found 
the leaven of Judaism beginning to work in the church- 
es of Galatia, and that lie then warned them against 
it in language of the most decided character (comp, i, 


GALATIANS 


112 


GALATIANS 


9; v, 3). From some passages in this epistle (e. g. i, 
11-2-1 ; ii, 1-21) it would appear also that insinuations 
had been disseminated among t lie Galatian churches 
to the effect that Paul was not a divinely-commission- 
ed apostle, but only a messenger of the church at Jeru- 
salem ; that Peter and he were at variance upon the 
subject of the relation of the Jewish rites to Christian- 
ity; and that Paul himself was not at all times so 
strenuously opposed to those rites as he had chosen to 
he among the Galatians. Of this state of things intel- 
ligence having been conveyed to the apostle, he wrote 
this epistle for the purpose of vindicating his own pre- 
tensions and conduct, of counteracting the influence 
of these false views, and of recalling the Galatians to 
the simplicity of the Gospel which they had received. 
The importance of the case was probably the reason 
why the apostle put himself to the great labor of writ- 
ing this epistle with his own hand (vi, 11). 

HI. Time and Place of Writing . — On the date of this 
epistle great diversity of opinion prevails. (Sec Fisch- 
er, De tempore quo ep. ad G. scripta faerit , bongo's. 1808; 
Kcil, De tempore , etc., in his Opuse. acad. p. 351 sq. ; 
also Ue b. d. Zeit. etc., in Tzsehirner’s Analckten, iii, 2, 
55 sq. ; Niemeyer, De tempore, etc., Gott. 1827 ; Ulrich, 
Ueb. d. Abfassungzeit, etc., in the Theol, Stud . u. Krit. 
183(1, p. 448 sq.). Marcion held this to be the earliest 
of Paul’s letters (Epiphanius, adv. Hares, xlii, 9) ; and 
Tertullian is general!}' supposed to favor the same 
opinion, from his speaking of Paul’s zeal against Juda- 
ism displayed in this epistle as characteristic cf his be- 
ing yet a neophyte (adv. Marc, i, 20) ; though to us it 
does not appear that in this passage Tertullian is re- 
ferring at all to the writing of this epistle, but only to 
Paul’s personal intercourse with Peter and other of 
the apostles mentioned by him in the epistle (ii, 9-14). 
Michaelis also has given his suffrage in favor of a date 
earlier than that of the apostle's second visit to Gala- 
tia, and very shortly after that of his first. Koppe’s 
view (Aor. Test, vi, 7) is the same, though he supposes 
the apostle to have preached in Galatia before the visit 
mentioned by Luke in Acts xvi, G, and which is usual- 
ly reckoned his first visit to that district. Others, 
again, such as A1 ill (Prolog, in Xor. Test. p. 4), Calo- 
vius (Diblia Jllust. iv, 529), and, more recently, Schra- 
der (Der A p. Paulus , i, 22G), place the date of this epis- 
tle at a late period of the apostle’s life : the last, in- 
deed, advocates the date assigned in the. Greek MSS., 
and in the Syriac and Arabic versions, which announce 
that it was “written from Rome” during the apostle’s 
imprisonment there. But this subscription is of very 
little critical authority, and seems in every way im- 
probable ; it was not unlikely suggested by a mistaken 
reference of the expressions in ch. vi, 17 to the suffer- 
ings of imprisonment. See Alford, Prolegomena , p. 
459. Lightfoot (Journal of Sacred and Class. Phi’ol. 
Jan. 1857) urges the probability of its having been 
written at about the same time as the Epistle to the 
Romans, and finds it very unlikely that two epistles 
so nearly allied in subject and line of argument should 
have been separated in order of composition by the two 
epistles to the Corinthians. He would therefore as- 
sign Corinth as the place where the epistle was writ- 
ten, and the three months that the apostle staid there 
(Acts xx, 2, 3) as the exact period. But when the lan- 
guage of the epistle to the Galatians is compared with 
that to the Romans, the similarity between the two 
is such as rather to suggest that the latter is a devel- 
opment at a later period, and in a more systematic 
form, of thoughts more hastily thrown out to meet a 
pressing emergency in the former. The majority of 
interpreters, however, concur in a medium view be- 
tween these extremes, and fix the date of this epistle 
at some time shortly after the apostle’s second visit to 
Galatia. Y rom the apostle's abrupt exclamation in 
chap, i, 0, ‘ 1 marvel that ye arc so soon removed from 
him that called you,” etc., it seems just to infer that 
he wrote this epistle not very long after he had left 


I Galatia. It is true, as has been urged (see especially 
| Conybeare and Howson’s Life and Epistles of St. Paul, 
ii, 132), that oiVw ra\t(og in this verse may mean “so 
quickly ’’ as well as “so soon;” but the abruptness of 
the apostle’s statement appears to us rather to favor 
the latter rendering; for, as a complaint of the quick- 
ness of their change respected the manner in which it 
had been made, and as the apostle could be aware of 
that only by report, and as it was a matter on which 
there might be a difference of opinion between him 
and them, it would seem necessary that the grounds of 
such a charge should be stated ; whereas if the com- 
plaint merely related to the shortness of time during 
which, after the apostle had been among them, they 
had remained steadfast in the faith, a mere allusion to 
it was sufficient, as it was a matter not admitting of 
any diversity of opinion. We should consider, also, the 
obvious fervor and freshness of interest that seems to 
breathe through the whole epistle as an evidence that 
he had blit lately left them. 

The question, however, still remains, which of the 
two visits of Paul to Galatia mentioned in the Acts 
was it after which this epistle was written? In reply 
to this, Michaelis and some others maintain that it was 
th q first; but in coming to this conclusion they appear 
to have unaccountably overlooked the apostle’s phra- 
seology (iv, 13), where he speaks of circumstances 
connected with his preaching the Gospel among the 
Galatians, to —qotioov, the former time, an expression 
which clearly indicates that at the period this epistle 
was written, Paul had been at least twice in Galatia. 
On these grounds it is probable that the apostle wrote 
and dispatched this epistle not long after he had left 
Galatia for the second time, and perhaps whilst he 
was residing at Ephesus (comp. Acts xviii, 23; xix, 1 
sq.), i. e. A.D. 51. The apostle would in that city 
have been easily able to receive tidings of bis Gala- 
tian converts; the dangers of Judaism, against which 
he personally warned them, \vonld have been fresh in 
his thoughts; and when he found that these warnings 
were proving unavailing, and that even his apostolic 
authority was becoming undermined by a fresh arrival 
of Judaizing teachers, it is then that he would have 
1 written, as it were on the spur of the moment, in those 
I terms of earnest and almost impassioned warning that 
so noticeably mark this epistle. The reasons which 
Michaelis urges for an earlier date are of no weight. 
He appeals, in the first place, to chap, i, 2, and asks 
whether Paul would have used the vague expression, 
“all the brethren,” without naming them, had it not 
I been that the parties in question were those by whom 
he had been accompanied on his first visit to Galatia, 
viz. Silas and Timothy, and, “perhaps, some others.” 
The answer to this obviously is that, had Paul refer- 
( red in this expression to these individuals, who were 
know'll to the Galatians, he was much more likely, on 
that very account, to have named them than otherwise; 
and besides, the expression “all the brethren that are 
with me” is much more naturally understood of a con- 
siderable number of persons, such as t lie elders of the 
church at Ephesus, than of two persons, and “ perhaps 
some others.” Again, he urges the fact that, about 
the time of Paul’s first visit to Galatia, Asia Minor 
i w'as full of zealots for the law', and that consequently 
it is easier to account for the seduction of the Gala- 
tians at this period than at a later. But the passage 
to which Michaelis refers in support of this assertion 
(Acts xv, 1) simply informs us that certain Judaizing 
teachers visited Antioch, and gives us no information 
whatever as to the time when such zealots entered 
Asia Minor. In fine, he lays great stress on the cir- 
cumstance that Paul, in recapitulating the history of 
his own life in the first and second chapters, brings 
tbc narrative dowli only to the period of the confer- 
ence at Jerusalem, the reason of which is to be found, 
he thinks, in the fact that this epistle was written so 
soon after that event that nothing of moment had sub- 


GALATIANS 


ns 


GALATIANS 


sequently occurred in the apostle’s history. But, even 
admitting that the period referred to in this second 
chapter was that of the conference mentioned Acts xv 
(though this is much doubted by many writers of note), 
the reason assigned by Michaclis for Paul’s carrying 
the narrative of his life no further than this cannot be 
admitted; for it overlooks the design of the apostle in 
furnishing that narrative, which was certainly not to 
deliver himself of a piece of mere autobiographical de- 
tail, but to show from certain leading incidents in his 
early apostolic life how from the first he had claimed 
and exercised an independent apostolic authority, and 
how his rights in this respect had been admitted by 
the pillars of the Church, Peter, Janies, and John. 
For this purpose it was not necessary that the narra- 
tive should be brought down to a lower date than the 
period when Paul went forth as the apostle of the 
Gentiles, formally recognised as such by the other 
apostles of Christ. 

Some of the advocates of a date earlier than A.D. 50 
suppose that the persons addressed under the name of 
Galatians were not the inhabitants of Galatia proper, 
but of Lystra and Derbe (Acts xiv, G), since among 
the seven districts into which Asia Minor was divided 
by the Homans the name of Lycaonia does not occur; 
the latter therefore, with its cities of Derbe and Lys- 
tra, must have been included in the province of Gala- 
tia, as indeed Pliny {Hist. Nat. v, 27) makes it a part 
thereof. (See Selunidt, De Galatis, etc., Ilefeld. 174S.) 
It is urged, in addition, that, while copious details are 
given in Acts xiv respecting the founding of the Ly- 
caonian churches, the first mention of Galatia (Acts 
xvi, 6) is merely to the effect that Paul passed through 
that country. On these grounds Paul us, Ulrich {Stud, 
und Krit. 183G), Bottger, and others hold that under 
the term 7Tfpi\;wpor, * 4 the region round about” (Acts 
xiv, G), Galatia must be included : and therefore they 
put back the composition of the epistle to a date ante- 
rior to the apostolic council (Acts xv). It is certain, 
however, that Luke did not follow the Roman divi- 
sion into provinces (which, moreover, was frequently 
changed), because be specially mentions Lycaonia, 
which was no province, and distinguishes it from Ga- 
latia. As to the latter point, no valid inferences can 
be drawn from the comparative silence of the inspired 
history upon the details of Paul’s labors in particular 
places, provided his presence there is clearly record- 
ed, although in brief terms. There seems, therefore, 
no reason to depart from the common opinion that the 
apostle’s first visit is recorded in Acts xvi, G; and con- 
sequently the epistle must have been written subse- 
quently to the council (Acts xv). With this, too, the 
references in the epistle itself best agree. The visit to 
Jerusalem alluded to in chap, ii, 1—10, is, on the best 
grounds, supposed to be identical with that of Acts xv 
(A.D. 47); and the apostle speaks of it as a thing of 
the past. See Paul. 

IV. Contents . — The epistle consists of three parts. 
In the Jirst part (i,ii), which is apologetic, Paul vindi- 
cates his own apostolic authority and independence as 
a directly-commissioned ambassador of Christ to men, 
and especially to the Gentile portion of the race. After 
an address and salutation, in which his direct appoint- 
ment by heaven is distinctly asserted (i, 1), and a brief 
doxology (i,5), the apostle expresses his astonishment 
at the speedy lapse of his converts, and reminds them 
how he had forewarned them that even if an angel 
preached to them another gospel he was to be anath- 
ema (i, 6-10). The gospel he preached was not of men, 
as his former course of life (i, 11-14), and as his actual 
history subsequent to his conversion (i, 15-24), con- 
vincingly proved. When he went up to Jerusalem it 
was not to be instructed by the apostles, but on a spe- 
cial mission, which resulted in his being formally ac- 
credited by them (ii, 1-10); nay, more, when Peter 
dissembled in his communion with Gentiles, he re- 
buked him, and demonstrated the danger of such in- 


consistency (ii, 11-21). In the second part (iii, iv), 
which is polemical, having been led to refer to his zeal 
for the great doctrine of salvation by the grace of God 
through faith in Christ, the apostle now enters at large 
upon the illustration and defence of this cardinal truth 
of Christianity. He appeals to the former experience 
of the Galatians, and urges specially the doctrine of 
justification, as evinced by the gift of the Spirit (iii, 
1-5), the case of Abraham (iii, 6-9), the fact of the law 
involving a curse, from which Christ has freed us (iii, 
10-14), and, lastly, the prior validity of the promise (iii, 
15-18), and that preparatory character of the law (iii, 
19-24) which ceased when faith in Christ and baptism 
into him had fully come (iii, 25-29). All this the 
apostle illustrates by a comparison of the nonage of an 
heir with that of bondage under the law: they were 
now sons ami inheritors (iv, 1-7); why, then, were 
they now turning back to bondage (iv, 8-11)? They 
once treated the apostle very differently (iv, 12-16); 
now they pay court to others, and awaken feelings of 
serious mistrust (iv, 17-20) ; and yet, with all their ap- 
proval of the law, they show that they do not under- 
stand its deeper and more allegorical meanings (iv, 21 
-31). In the third part (v, vi), which is hortatory and 
admonitory, the Galatians arc exhorted to stand fast in 
their freedom, and beware that they make not void their 
union with Christ (v, 1-G) : their perverters, at any 
rate, shall be punished (v, 7-12). The real fulfilment 
of the law is love (v, 13-15) : the works of the Spirit 
are what no law condemns, the works of the flesh are 
what exclude from the kingdom of God (v, 16-2G). 
The apostle further exhorts the spiritual to be forbear- 
ing (vi, 1-5), the taught to be liberal to their teach- 
ers, and to remember that as they sowed so would they 
reap (vi, G-10). Then, after a noticeable recapitulation, 
and a contrast between his own conduct and that of 
the false teachers (vi, 11-1G), and an affecting entreaty 
that they would trouble him no more (vi, 17), the apos- 
tle concludes with his usual benediction (vi, 18). — Kit- 
to, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. 

V. Commentaries. — The following are special exe- 
getical helps on the whole of this epistle, the most 
important being designated by an asterisk [*] prefixed : 
Victorinas, Commentarii (in Mai, Script. Vet. Ill, ii, 1); 
Jerome, Commentarii (in Opp. vii, 367 ; Opp. Suppos. 
xi, 979) ; Augustine, Expositio (in Opp. iv, 1248) ; Chry- 
sostom, Commenlarius (in Opp. x, 779; also Ernsmi 
Opp. viii, 267, tr. in Lib. of Fathers , Oxf. 1840, vol. vi, 
8vo); Cramer, Catena (vol. vi}; Claudius Taur., Com- 
mentarius (in Bill. Max. Pair, xiv, 139) ; Aquinas, Ex- 
positio (in Opp. vii); * Luther, Commentarius (Lips. 
1519, 4to, and often since; also in Opp. iii, 1, etc. ; tr. 
London, 1807, 1835, 8vo); also his fuller Com mentarius 
(Vitemh. and Ilag. 1535, 8vo, and later; both works 
also in Germ, often); Bugenliagen, Annotationes (Ba- 
sil. 1525, 8vo) ; Megander, Commentarius (Tigur. 1533, 
8vo) ; Seripandus, Commentaria (in bis work on Ro- 
mans, Lugd. 1541, 8vo; also separately, Antw. 15G5, 
8vo, and later) ; Calvin, Commentarius et Sermones 
(both in Opp.; the former tr. Edinb. 1854, 8vo; the 
latter, Lond. 1574, 4to); Meyer, Adnotationes (Berne, 
154G, Ilanov. 1602, 8vo); Sarcer, Aelnotatlones (Frank- 
fort, 1542, Svo); Sahneron, Dispufationes (in Opp. xv); 
Major, Enarratio (Vitemb. 1560, Svo ; also in German, 
ib. eod.) ; Musculus, Commentarius (Basil. 1561, 15G9, 
fob) ; Cogclerus, Solutlones (Vitemb. 15G4, Svo); Chy- 
trams, Enarratio (Franc. 15G9, Svo); Ilcslmsiiis, Com- 
mentarius (Helmst. 1579, Svo); Wigand, Adnotationes 
(Vitemb. 1580; Lips. 159G, Svo); Grynams, Analysis 
(Basil. 1583, 4to); Cornerus, Commentarius [after Lu- 
ther] (lleidelb. 1583, Svo) ; Prime, Exposition (Oxford, 
1587, Svo) ; Heilbrunner, Commentarius (bailing. 1591, 
Svo); Perkins, Commentary (in lForfo?, ii, 153; Cambr. 
1G01, Lond. 1G03 ; in Latin, Genev. 1011, 2 vols. fob); 
Rollock, A na lysis (London, 1G02, Geneva, 1603, 8vo) ; 
Hoe, Commentarius (Lips. 1605, 4to); Winckelmann, 
Commentarius (Giess. 1608, Svo); "iVeinrich, Expositio 


GALATIANS 


714 


GALBANUM 


(Lips. 1610, 4to) ; Betuleius, Paraphrasis (Halle, 1G12, 1 
1G17, 8vo); Battus, Co7«wien/ifn7(Gryi)hisen.l613,4to); 
Lvser, Analysis (Lips. 1G1G, 4to) ; 1’areus, Commcnia- 
lius (Heidelb. 1G21 , 4to; also in Opp. iii); Crell, Com- \ 
mentarius (liaconigi, 1628, 8vo; also in Opp. i, 373); 
Coutzen, Commentarius (Col. ami Mog. 1631, folio); 
Himmel, Commentarius (Jena, 1G11, 4to) ; Litlunann. 

(Upsal. 1G41, 4 to); AVeinmann, Exercitationes 
(Altorf. 1 1> 17, 4to) ; Terser, Analysis (Upsal. 1G49, 4to) ; 
Lushington, Commentary (Loud. 1650, fol.) ; Coceeius, 
Commentarius {Opp. v.) ; also Explicutio {ib. xii, 199); 
Feurborn, Exjiosifio ((Less. 1G53, 1669, 4to) ; Chemnitz, 
Colhgium (Jen. 1656, 1GG3, 4 to): *Kunadus, Dispuiati- 
ones (Vitemb. 1658, 4to) ; Ferguson, Exposition (Edinb. 
1657, Loud. 1841, 8vo); Lagus, Commentatio (Grvph. 
1GG4, 4to); *>Stoll)erg, Lectiones (Vitemb. 1GG7, 4to); 
Kronnayer, Commentarius (Lips. 1G70, 4to) ; Mommas, 
Mediiatioiies (Hag. 1G78, 8vo) ; Van tier Waeyen, Verk- 
laariny (Lebard. 1G82, 8vo ; also in Latin, Franecker, 
1681, 4to) ; *Steengracht, Vitleyyiny (Encli. 1G88, 4to) ; 
*Schmid, Commentatio (Kilon. 1690, Hamb. 1G9G, 1704, 
4to) ; Leydekker, in ep. ad Cal. (Tr. ad Bh. 1G94, 8vo) ; 
*Aker."loot, an tie Gal. (Levd. 1G95, 4to; in German, 
Brem. 1G99, 4to); *Spener, Erkldntng (F. a. M. 1G77, 
1714, 4to); Aurivilius, A nimadvers tones (Halle, 1702, 
4to) ; Locke, Paraphrase (Lond. 1705, 1733, 4to) ; AVei- 
sius, Commentarius (Helmst. 1705, 4to) ; Mayer, Disser- 
tationes (Grvph. 1709, 8vo) ; Van Dyck, Aanmerking 
(Amst. 1710, 8vo); Boston, Paraphrase (in 1 ) 'oris, vi, 
240) ; Hazevoet, Verkhtariny (Leyd.1720, lto) ; A T itrin- 
ga, De hr. an d. Gal. (Franeq. 1728, 4to); *Plevier, 
VerJdaariny (Leyden, 1738, 4to); Bam bach, Erkldruny 
(Giess. 1739, 4to) ; array, Erlidruny (Lips. 1739, Svo) ; 
AVessel, Commentarius (L. Bat. 1750, 4to) ; Hoffmann, 
Introductio (Lips. 1750, 4.to) ; *Struensee, Erkldruny 
(Flensb. 1764, 4to) ; Baumgarten, Ausleyuny{\\Y\. T7G7, 
4to) ; Alichaelis, Anmerk. (2d cd. Getting. 1769, 4to); 
Zachariii, Erkldr. (Gutting. 1770, 8vo) ; Aloldenhauer, 
Erkldruny (Hamb. 1773, Svo) ; Cramer, Versuch (in the 
Beit r dye zu Be ford, i, 112 sq.); Clnndler, Paraphrase 
(London, 1777, 4to); Weber, Annie rkungen (Lpz. 1778, 
Svo) : Sender, Paraphrasis (Hal. 1779, Svo) ; Lavater, 
Umschreibuny (in Pfenniger’s Mayaz. i, 33-72); Eic- 
caltoun, Xotes (in 1 1 T orhs, iii); Anon. Erkldr. (in the 
Beitraye zu Befbrd. v, 12G sq.) ; Esmarch. Uebersctznny 
(Flensburg, 1784); SchUtze, Scholia (Ger. 1784, 4to); 
Boos, Ausleyury (Tub. 1784, 178G, Svo); Mayer, An- 
merk. (Al ien, 1788, Svo) : Krause, Anmerknngeu (Frkf. 
1788, 8vo); Stroth, Erkldr. (in Eichhorn’s Pepiert. iv, 
41 sq.); Schilling, Anmerknngeu (Leipzig, 1792, Svo); 
Carpzov, Uebersctznny (Helmstadt, 1794, Svo); Morns, 
Acroases (Lips. 1795, Svo); also Erkldr. (Gold. 1798, 
Svo); Anonym. Anmerk. (in Henke’s Mayaz. ii, 22); 
Bair, Explicatio (Frcft. 1798, Svo); Hensler, Anmerk. 
(Lpz. 1805); Borger, Interprctutio (L. Bat. 1807, Svo); 
* Winer, Commentarius (Lips. 1821, 1828, 1829, 1859, 
Svo); Anon. Uebers. (Neust. 1827, Svo); F) At, 1 ’orles. 
(Tub. 1*28, Svo); Pauliis, Erlduteruuy i Heidelb. 1831, 
Svo); Hermann, In primis 3 cap. (Lips. 1832, 4 to); s!e Us- 
teri, Commenfar (Zar. 1833, Svo) ; *Alatthies, Erkld- 
nmg (Greifs. 1833, Svo); *Buc , kert, Commenfar. (Lpz. 
1833, Svo) ; Fritzsche, De nnnmdlis loci etc. (Bostock, 
1833-4,4to); Zschoeke, Erkldruny (llalle, 1831, Svo); 
Schott, Erkldr. (Lpz. 1831, Svo); S.irdinoux, Cominen- 
taire (A r alence, 1837, Svo); AVindischmann, Erkldruny 
(Mainz, 1813, Svo) ; Barnes, Xotes (N. Y. 1814, 12mo) ; 
Baunigarten-Crusius, Geduterbrief (in Erey. Schriften , 
II, ii), Haldane, Exposition (London, 1818, 8vo); Ols- 
hausen, Commentary {tr. Edinb. 1851, Svo) ; *llilgen- 
feld, Erkldruny (Halle, 1852, 8vo); Brown, Exposition 
(Edinb. 1853, Svo); Muller, Erkldruny (Hamb. 1853, 
Svo) ; *Ellieott, Commentary (Lond. 1851, 1859, Andov. 
1804, Svo); ^Turner, Commentary (N. Y. 1855, Svo); 
Jatho, Erldutcruny (llildeslieim, 1856, Svo); Afmsker, 
Avsleynny (Lpz. 1S5G, Svo); Mever, (ialatp'brhf (in 
Commentary vii, Getting. 1857, Svo); Bagge, Commen- 
tary (London, 1857, Svo); Frana, Commentarius (Goth. 


1857, Svo) ; Twele, Ura%h:'«(llann. 1858, Svo) ; AViese. 
ler, Commentar (Getting. 1859, Svo) ; Jowett, Xotes (in 
Ejdstle , i, London, 1859, Svo); Gwinne, Commentary 
(Dubl. 1SG3, Svo); Lightfoot, Notes (Lond. 1855, Svo) ; 
Beithmayer, Commentar (Munch. 1865, Svo); A T omel, 
AnmerJc. (Frcft. a. M. 18G5, Svo); Alatthias, Erkldruny 
(Cassel, 18G5, Svo) ; *Eadie, Commentary (Glasg. 18G9, 
Svo) ; Braudes, Frtiheitsbrvf (Wiesb. 1809, 8vo). See 
Epistle. 

Gal'banum (rt^n, chelbenah'., according to 
Fiirst, llebr. Ilandwb. s. v., from 'l'ST\,fat, i. e. resin, 
yum ; Sept, and ATdg. merely Grreeize and Latinize, 
\a\f3etvi], galbanum) is mentioned in Exod. xxx, 34 
as one of the substances from which the incense for 
the sanctuary was to be prepared: “Take unto thee 
sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and yalbanum A 1 The 
Hebrew word is so very similar to the Greek yoX/ia- 
vi), which occurs as early as the time of Hippocrates, 
that they may be presumed to have a common origin. 
The substance is more particularly described by Dios- 
corides (iii, 8 ; comp, i, 71), who gives pt-ib-iov as an 
additional name, and states that it is an exudation 
produced by a ferula in Syria. So Pliny (xii, 25) : 
“ Aloreover, w e have from Syria out of the same moun- 
tain, Amanus, another kind of gum, called galbanum, 
issuing out of an herb-like fennelgeant, which some call 
by the name of the said resin, others stayonotis. The 
best galbanum, and wdiich is most set by, is grisly 
and clear, withal resembling haimncniacum.” On the 
other hand, he describes the metopion as the product 
of a tree near the oracle of Ammon (xii, 49). Theo- 
phrastus had long previously {Hist. PI. ix, 7) said that 
galbanum flows from a Panax of Syria. In both cases 
it is satisfactory to find a plant of the same natural 
family of Umbelliferae pointed out as yielding this 
drug, because the plant has not yet been clearly ascer- 
tained. The Arabs, however, seem to have been ac- 
quainted with it, as they give its names. Thus u gal- 
banum” in Persian works has barzu assigned to it as 
the Arabic, birerja as the Hindostani, with khulyan 
and metonion as the Greek names (evident corruptions 
of yo/\/3«r?; and ptrebiricv, arising from errors in the 
reading of the diacritical points): Kinneh and nafhl 
are stated to be the names of the plant, which is de- 
scribed as being jointed, thorny, and fragrant (Boyle, 
Illust . IJimal. Bot. p. 23). Lobcl made an attempt to 
ascertain the plant by sowing some seeds which he 
found attached to the gum of commerce {Obs. p. 431). 
The plant which w\as thus obtained is the Ferula feru- 
la go (see Kuhn, On Lioscor. ii, 532) of Linnams {Sys- 
tem, vi, 130 sq.), a native of North Africa, Crete, and 
Asia Alinor (see Jacquin, Hart. Vhulob. iii, pi. 3G). It 
has been objected, however, that it does not yield gal- 
banum in any of tl^se situations; but the same objec- 
tion might be made, though erroneously, to the mas- 
tich-tree, as not yielding mastieh, because it does not 
do so except in a soil and climate suitable to it. Other 
plants, as the Bubon galbanum and ynmmifervm, have 
in consequence been selected, but with less claim, as 
they are natives of the Cape of Good Hope. The late 
professor Don, having found some seeds of an umbel- 
liferous plant sticking to the galbanum of commerce, 
has named the plant, though yet unknown, Galbanum 
i ofjicincde. These seeds, however, may or may not 
have belonged to the galbanum plant (see Froriep, 
Xotizen , xxix, 12). Dr. Bindley has suggested an- 
other plant, which lie has named Opoidia yalbaniftra, 
and which grows in Khorassan, in Durrud, whence 
specimens were sent to England by Sir John ALNiell, 
as yielding an inferior sort of ammoniaeiim. This 
plant has been adopted by the Dublin College in their 
Pharmacopoeia as that w hich yields the galbanum (Pe- 
reira, Mat. Med. ii, pt. ii, p. 188). Al. Buslie, in his 
Persian travels (quoted in Boyle, Mat. Medico , p. 471, 
472), identified the plant producing galbanum with 
I one which he found on the Demaw end mountains. It 


GALE 


715 


GALEED 


was called by the natives Khassuch, and bore a very 
close resemblance to the Ferula erubescent, but belong- 
ed neither to the genus Galbanum nor to Opoidca. It 
is believed that the Persian galbanum and that 
brought from the Levant are the produce of different 
plants. See Aromatics. 

Galbanum is in the present day imported into Eu- 
rope both from the Levant and from India. That 
from the latter country is exported from Bombay, hav- 
ing first been imported thither, probably from the Per- 
sian Gulf. It is therefore probable that it may be 
produced in the countries at tho head of that gulf, that 
is, in the northern parts of Arabia, or in Persia (por- 
tions of which, as is well known, were included in the 
Syria of the ancients) ; perhaps in Kurdistan, which 
nearly corresponds with ancient Assyria. Galbanum, 
then, is either a natural exudation, or obtained by in- 
cisions from some umbelliferous plant. It occurs in 
commerce in the form either of tears or masses, com 
monly called lump galbanum. The latter is of the con- 
sistence of wax, tenacious, of a brownish or brownish- 
yellow color, with white spots in the interior, which 
are the agglutinated tears. Its odor is strong and 
balsamic, but disagreeable, and its tnste warm and 
bitter. It is composed of G6 per cent, of resin and G of 
volatile oil, with gum, etc., and impurities. It was 
formerly held in high esteem as a stimulant and anti- 
spasmodic medicine, and is still employed as such, and 
for external application to discuss indolent tumors. 
The ancients believed that when burnt the smoke of 
it was efficacious in driving away serpents and gnats 
(Pliny, xii, 56; xix, 58; xxiv, 13; Virgil, Georg, iii, 
415; Calpurn. v, 90; Lucan, ix, 91G). Galbanum was 
also emploA'ed in adulterating the opobalsamum, or 
gum of the balsam plant (Pliny, xii, 54). It is still 
more to our purpose that we learn from Dioscorides 
that, in preparing a fragrant ointment, galbanum was 
mixed with other aromatic substances (compare Pliny, 
xiii, 2). The effect of such mixture must depend upon 
the proportion in which it or any other strong-smelling 
substance is intermixed, more than upon what is its 
peculiar odor when in a concentrated state. We need 
not, therefore, inquire into the reasons which have 
been assigned to account for galbanum being inter- 
mixed with stacte and onycha as sweet spices (see Ka- 
lisch, ad loc.). We see that the same practice existed 
among the Greeks and Egyptians (Virgil, Georgies , iv, 
2G4 ; Colum. ix, 15, etc.). See Penny Cyclopaedia , s. 
v.; Celsius, IJierob. i, 267 sq. ; Michaelis, Suppl. iii, 
753 sq. ; Hiller, Ilierophyt. i, 450. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, 
s. v. See Anointing Oil. 

Gale, John, a Baptist divine and learned contro- 
vertist, was born at London in 1GS0. lie studied at 
the Puiversity of Leyden, and at the age of nineteen 
graduated 31. A. and doctor of philosophy. He studied 
also at Amsterdam under Limborch, and was intimate 
with Le Clerc. The University of Leyden in 1703 
offered him the degree of doctor of divinity if he would 
assent to the articles of the Synod of Dort. He be- 
came, in 1718, miuiHer of the chapel in St. Paul's Al- 
ley, Barbican. But his ministry was of shoit dura- 
tion. lie died in 1721, at the age of 41. in 1711 he 
published bis Deflections on Wall's Defence of Infant 
Baptism , and in 1719 held a dispute with the author. 
He was also the author of >S 'ermons on several Occasions 
(2d ed. 172G,4 vols.). lie was an able preacher, highly 
appreciated by the respectable congregation to which 
he ministered, and brought to the discussion of matters 
in controversy large, exact, and well-digested learn- 
ing, with no small dialectical skill. (L. E. S.). 

Gale, Theophilus, a learned nonconformist di- 
vine, was born in 1628, at King’s Teignton, in Devon- 
shire. He entered Magdalen College, Oxford, in 1647, 
and became felloAv in 1650. In 1652 he passed A. 31., 
and soon became an eminent tutor and a distinguished 
preacher in the university. In 1657 he was invited to 
Winchester, and became a stated preacher there, in 


J which station he continued for several years. Having 
' imbibed the principles of the nonconformists, on the 
re-establishment of episcopacy, at the restoration of 
Charles the Second, he refused to comply with the Act 
of Uniformity which passed in 1661. Deprived of his 
fellowship at Oxford, he was taken into the family of 
Philip, lord Wharton, in the capacity of tutor to his 
two sons. lie was a diligent and multifarious stu- 
dent. In 1669 he published the first part of The Court 
of the Gentiles; or, a Discourse touching the Original of 
human Literature , both Philology and Philosophy, from 
the Scriptures and Jewish Chui'ch (Oxford and London 
5 vols. 4 to). It was received with great applause, and 
was reprinted in 1672-1682. u In the first part of this 
learned work, Mr. Gale endeavors to prove that all lan- 
guages have their origin and rise from the Hebrew. 
To this he adds a deduction, importing that the pagan 
, theology, physic, politics, poetry, history, rhetoric, are 
deduced from sacred names, persons, rites, and rec- 
ords; and showing, withal, how the Jewish traditions 
; came to be corrupted and mistaken by pagans. In 
the second part he tries to prove that philosophy also 
has its origin from the Jewish Church. In the third 
part, the vanity of pagan philosophy is demonstrated 
from its causes, parts, properties, and effects ; namely, 
pagan idolatry, Judaic apostasy, Gnostic infusions, er- 
rors among the Greek fathers, especially Origenism, 
Arianism, Pelagianism, and the whole system of pop- 
ery, or anti-Cliristianism, distributed into three parts, 
mystic, scholastic, and canonic theology. In tho fourth 
part he treats of reformed philosophy, wherein Plato’s 
moral or metaphysic, or prime philosophy, is reduced 
to a useful form or method, lie divides this, which is 
larger than any of the former parts, into three books, 
discoursing in the first of moral philosophy; in tile 
second, of metaphysics ; and in the third, of divine pre- 
determination.” In 1677 he was chosen to succeed Air. 
Powe as pastor, lie died at Newington, 1678. Be- 
sides The Court of the Gentiles , lie published in Latin 
an abridgment of it for the use of students, under the 
title of Philosophia GencraHs , etc. (Lond. 167G, 8vo): — 
Theopkily ; or, a Discourse of the Saints' Anrty with God 
in Christ (Lond. 1671, 8vo) : — The true Idea of Jansen - 
' ism, both historic and dogmatic (1669, Svo): — The Anat- 
omy of Infidelity (1672, Svo) : — A Discourse on the com- 
ing of Christ (1673, Svo) : — Idea Theologian, etc. (P2mo) : 
— and The Life and Death of Thomas Tregasse (1671, 
Svo). — Jones, Christ. Biog. • Shedd, Hist, of Dort. i, 205. 

Gale, Thomas, D.D., a learned English divine 
and antiquarian, was born in 1636 at Scmton, in York- 
shire. He became fellow of Trinity, and was elected 
regius professor of Greek in 1666; was made prebend- 
ary of St. Paul’s in 1676, and dean of York in 1697. 
He died April 8, 1702. lie published Opvscvla J fy- 
| (liologica, etc., Gr. and Lat. (Camb. 1671, 8vo) ; — Histo- 
ric Paetfcce antiqui Script ores. Greece et Latine: — Hero- 
| doti II a li cam assensis I lit or ia mm, lib. ix; — Historic 
Britanniar, Saxonican, Anglo-Danicm Script ores xv, ex 
I vetust . codd. 3IS. (Oxon. i691, fol.). This work con- 
tains nearly all the original writers of English history. 

Ga'leed (Heb. Galed', nr?*, the heap of the wit* 





Drnidical (Jairn and Kist-Vaens. 


GALEN 


GALICIIO 


YlG 


ness; Sept, fiovvbg fiapri'e and /3o vvbg paorvotl ; Vulg. 
Aceryws tcstimonii and Galatal), the name given by 
Jacob to the ]>ile of stones [see Gilgal] erected by 
him and Laban to attest their league of friendship [see 
Gilead], but called by Laban (Gen. xxxi,47, 48) by 
the synonymous Syriac title of Jegau-Saiiadutiia I 
(q. v.). Traces of a similar custom appear in the con- 
secrated mounds of the Druids and of the Nortli-Amer- 
ican aborigines of the Western States. See Altar ; 


Stone. 

Galen or Galenus, Mattiieus van, D.D., was 
born about the year 1528, at West-Ivapelle, on the 
island of Walcheren. As his parents were not in such 
circumstances as would enable them to give their son 
a liberal education, the expenses of his preparatory 
course at Ghent were borne by two benevolent gentle- 
men of his native place. From Ghent he went to 
Louvain, where he studied philosophy and theology. 
After taking his bachelor’s degree, he gave instruc- 
tions in this institution in sacred eloquence. Being 
licensed, he was, on the recommendation of the noto- 
rious liuard Tapper, called to the professorship of the- 
ology in the recently founded university of Dillingen. 
This position he held from 1559 to 15G3. Its duties 
were discharged in such a way as to secure for him a 
high reputation. From Dillingen he was called to oc- 
cupy the chair of theology at Donay. Here, in 15f>4, 
he received his degree of D.D. With zeal and fidelity 
he labored at this post till his death, which occurred in 
1573. lie was a man of eminent learning, possessing 
for the time in which lie lived an unusual familiarity 
with the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages. He 
was a member of the Council of Trent and of the 
Synod of Cambray. He numbered among his friends 
some of the principal men of his time. Though a man 
of great learning, he is said to have been deficient in 
critical acumen. He wrote various works in Latin on 
practical and polemic theology. The substance of his 
lectures on pulpit eloquence was given to the public 
under the title of Paralipomena. lie also wrote a 
Commentanus in Epistolam D. Pauli ad Hebrews e Syro 
Sermone in Laflnum conversam (Duaci, 1578 ; Lovan. 
1599). An Explicatio in Esaiam is still preserved in 
manuscript in the University library at Leyden. His 
greatest merit consists in the service rendered to Church 
history by original contributions in this department, 
and by the publication of mediaeval writings and doc- 
uments. His works in this direction are Vita S. 1 Vil- 
lebronli, Frisiorum apostoli: — Oraiio in vitani S. Georgii 
martyris: — Areopagitica spu opascula qua dam nnsquam 
ha etc mis cxcusa divi Chludotcici et Uildhdm de rebus 
gestis ae scriptis B. Macarii Jonici Dionysii Arcopagitce 
(Colon. 15G3 ; Paris, 15G5): — Alcuini Rhetorica ad Ca~ 
rolum Magnum (Duaci, 15G3 ; Colon. 15G3) : — De origin- 
ibus monasticis sou de prime. Christiance Monastices ori- 
glue commentaries (Dilling. 15G4). See B. Glasius, God- 
geleerd Nederland , 1). i, biz. 485 en verv. ; also J. N. Pa- 
quot, Mi-moires pour servir a I'histoire liiteraire des dir - 
sept provinces des Pays-Bas , de la princi panic de fjiege < t 
de qnelqnes contrees voisines (Lonvain, 17G3-1770, 18 
vols. 8vo), iii, p. 301 suiv. (J. P. W.) 

Galenists, a branch split off, in 1GG4, from the 
Waterlandians, who were Mennonites, or Anabaptists. 
The founder of the Galenists was called Galen Abra- 
ham Haan ; he was a doctor of physic, and pastor of a 
Mennonite congregation at Amsterdam. lie is cele- 
brated as a man of great penetration and eloquence, 
and is supposed to have inclined to Socinian views, 
Assuming that the Christian system laid much more 
stress on practice than on faith, he was disposed to re- 
ceive into the Mennonite Church all who acknowledged 
the divine origin of the hooks of the Old and New 
Testaments and led holy and virtuous lives. Such, 
in his judgment, were true Christians, and had an un- 
doubted right to all the privileges that belong to that 
character. — Mosheim, Ch. 1 list. cent, xvii, sec. ii, pt. ii, 
ch. v, § 7. SeeArosTOOL; Mennonites. 




i 


Galenus, Hans. See Galenists. 

Galenus, Valerius Maximianus, Roman em* 
peror, son of a shepherd, was born near Sardica, in 
Dacia, entered the imperial army, and served in the 
wars of Aurelius and Probus. Dioclesian (A.D. 292) 
conferred on him, along with Constantius Chlorus, the 
title of Cicsar, and gave him his daughter Valeria to 
wife. On the abdication of Dioclesian (A.D. S05), he 
and Constantius became augusti , or joint rulers of the 
Roman empire. On the death of Constantius at York 
(A.D. 30G), the troops in Britain and Gaul immediately 
declared their allegiance to his son, Constantine (after- 
wards Constantine the Great), much to the chagrin of 
Galerius, who expected the entire sovereignty of Rome 
to fall into his hands. He died A.D. 311. Galerius 
hated the Christians bitterly, and is believed to have 
been the real author of Dioclesian’s persecutions. See 
Dioclesian. “Brought to reflection by a terrible 
disease, he put an end to the slaughter shortly before 
his death by a remarkable edict of toleration, which lie 
issued from Nicomedia in 311, in connection with Con- 
stantine and Licinius. In that document he declared 
that the purpose of reclaiming the Christians from their 
wilful innovation and the multitude of their sects to 
the laws and discipline of the Roman state was not ac- 
complished, and that he would now grant them permis- 
sion to hold their religious assemblies, provided they 
disturbed not the order of the state. To this lie added, 
in conclusion, the remarkable instruction that the Chris- 
tians, ‘after this manifestation of grace, should pray to 
their God for the v. e'fare of the emperors, of the state, 
and of themselves, that the state might prosper in ev- 
ery respect, and that they might live quietly in their 
homes.’ This edict brought the period of persecution 
in the Roman empire to a close.’’ — Schafl’ History of 
the Christian Church, vol. i, § 57. 

Galfrid, Galfridus. See Geoffrey of Mon- 
mouth. 

Gal'gala (Pa'XynXa ; Vulg. Galgala), the ordinary 
equivalent in the Sept, for Gilgal. In the A.V. it is 
named only in 1 Macc. ix, 2, as designating the direc- 
tion of the road taken by the army of Demetrius, when 
they attacked Masaloth in Arbela — “the way to Gal- 
gala” ( u?bv ti)v tic Prt'XyaXo). The army, ns we learn 
from tlm statements of Josephus (Ant. xii, 11, 1), was 
on its way from Antioch, and there is no reason to 
doubt that by Arbela is meant the place of that name 
in Galilee now surviving as Irbid. Its ultimate des- 
tination was Jerusalem (1 Maec. ix, 3), and Galgala 
may therefore be either the upper Gilgal, near Bethel 
(Robinson, Pcseai'ches , iii, 8), as Ewald thinks (fsr. 
Gesch. Ill, ii, 370, n.), or the lower one near Jericho, as 
the route through the centre of the country, or (as is 
preferable) that through the Glior, is chosen. Jose- 
phus omits the name in his version of the passage. It 
is a gratuitous supposition of Ewald’s that the Galilee 
which Joseplms introduces is a corruption of Galgala — 
a view, however, which is favored by the reading in 
the margin of the above text, ancl which is adopted by 
Michaelis. — Smith, s. v. See Gilgal 3. 

Galiclio or Galiko, Elisha ren-Gakiuel, a 
Jewish commentator, was born about the middle of the 
lGth century (1552?). lie was president of the Rab- 
binic college at Safed, over which Moses Galante (q. 
v.) at one time presided, and, like all the Safed men, 
was eminently cabbalistic. He wrote a commentary 
on Ecclesiastes (rbilp hv Venice, 1578), which 

he. divided into 27 sections, according to the number 
of letters in the Hebrew alphabet, including the finale. 
Ginsburg, in his Historical and Critical Commentary on 
Ecclesiastes (Loud. 1SG1, p. G7, etc.), gives an analysis 
and specimen of this work. The most cabbalistic work 
ofGalicbo’s is his commentary on the book of Esther 
(“TCN 'bv ‘isixa, Venice, 1583). He wrote also a 
commentary on the “ Song of Songs” 


GALILEAN 


717 


GALILEE 


Venice, 1587), which has the Hebrew text 
and points, and in which he displays a genius for alle- 
gorical exposition. — Etheridge, Introd. to Jlebr. Lit. p. 
415 • Kitto, Cyclop, of Bibl. Lit. ii, 55 ; Eiirst, Bib. Jud. 
i, 314. (J. H. W.) 

Galilce'an (r«XiXatoc), a native or inhabitant 
(John iv, 45, “ of Galilee,” Matt, xxvi, (19 ; Acts i, 11 ; 
v 37) of Galilee (q. v.); applied to the disciples of 
Christ as a term of contempt (Luke xxii, 59 ; Acts ii, 
7). They were easily recognised as such, for the Gal- 
ileans spoke a dialect of the vernacular Syriac differ- 
ent from that of Judaea, and which was of course ac- 
counted rude and impure, as all provincial dialects are 
considered to be, in comparison with that of the me- 
tropolis. It was this which occasioned the detection 
of Peter as one of Christ’s disciples (Mark xiv, 70). 
The Galilean dialect (as we learn from Buxtorf, Lex. 
Talni. col. 434 ; Lightfoot,OrcL chorogr. in Matt, proem, 
c. 86, 87 ; and others) was of a broad and rustic tone, 
which affected the pronunciation not only of letters, 
but of words. It partook much of the Samaritan and 
Syriac idiom; but, in the instance of Peter, it must 
have been the tone which bewrayed him, the words 
being seemingly too few for that effect. (See A. Pfeif- 
fer, Dissert, de lingua Galilceor. ; also in his de Talmude 
Judeeor. p. 137 sq.) The Galilieans are mentioned by 
Josephus {Ant. xvii, 10, 2 ; War, ii, 10, 6; iii, 3, 2) as a 
turbulent and rebellious people, ready on all occasions 
to rise against the Roman authority. This character 
of them explains what is said in Luke xiii, 1 with re- 
gard to “the Galiheans whose blood Pilate had min- 
gled with their sacrifices.” Josephus, indeed, does not 
mention any Galilseans slain in the Temple by Pilate ; 
but the character which he gives that people sufficient- 
ly corroborates the statement. The tumults to which 
he alludes were, as we know, chiefly raised at the great 
festivals, when sacrifices were slain in great abun- 
dance; and on all such occasions the Galileans were 
much more active than the men of Judaea and Jerusa- 
lem, as is proved by the history of Archelaus (Joseph. 
Ant. xvii, 9, 10); which case, indeed, furnishes an an- 
swer to those who deny that the Galilseans attended 
the feasts with the rest of the Jews. The seditious 
character of the Galilseans also explains why Pilate, 
when sitting in judgment upon Jesus, caught at the 
word Galilee when used by the chief priests, and asked 
if he were a Galilrean (Luke xxiii, 6). To be known 
to belong to that country was of itself sufficient to 
prejudice Pilate against him, and to give some counte- 
nance to the charges, unsupported by impartial evi- 
dence, which were preferred against him, and which 
Pilate himself had, just before, virtually declared to be 
false. See Otho, Lex. Rab. p. 254 sq. — Kitto. s. v. 

GAL1L/EANS, one of the names of reproach given 
to the early Christians. It was the ordinary phrase 
of Julian the apostate, when lie spoke of Christ or 
Christians, lie was accustomed to call Christ “the 
Galilean God.” Not only did he use this epithet him- 
self, but made a law, requiring that no one should call 
the Christains by any other name, thinking thereby 
to abolish the name of Christians. lie died fighting 
against them ; and as he caught the blood in bis hand 
which flowed from a wound in his side, he dashed it 
towards heaven, saying these memorable words: 17- 
cisti,0 Galilee! “Thou hast conquered, 0 Galikean !” 
— Bingham, Orig. Eccles. bk. i, ch. ii, § 2. 

Gal'ilee (rnAtXoi'n, often in the N. T. and Apoc- 
rypha, as well as Josephus), the rendering also in a 
few passages (Josh, xx, 7 ; xxi, 32 ; 1 Kings ix, 11 ; 1 
Citron, vi, 76 ; Isa. ix, 1) of the Ilcb. h'k gat'd' (fem. 

gelilah', 2 Kings xv, 29), which prop, signifies 
a circle (e. g. a ring, Esth. i, 6 ; Cant, v, 14), or cir- 
cuit of country, i. e. one of the little circular plains 
among the hills of northern Palestine, such as is now 
seen near Kedesh. Sec Topographical Terms. As 


a special locality, it is first mentioned l>v Joshua, who 
describes Kedesh as “in Galilee in Mount Naphtuli” 
(xx, 7). Its limited extent is indicated in 2 Kings 
xv, 29, where the historian, detailing the conquests of 
Tigiath-pileser, states that “lie took Ijon, and Abel- 
Beth-Maaehah, and Janaoli, and Kedesh, and Ilazor, 
and Gilead, and Galilee , all the land of Xaphtali .” 
Galilee, therefore, did not e tend beyond the bounds 
of Naphtali ; and a comparison with other passages 
shows that it embraced only the northern section of 
that tribe, or at least that the name was at first con- 
fined to that district (Josh, xx, 7 ; xxi, 32; Josephus, 
Ant. v, 1, 18). The region thus lay on the summit of 
a broad mountain ridge. Here were situated the towns 
which Solomon offered to Hiram as payment for his 
services in procuring timber and stones for the Tem- 
ple. Hiram, however, whose great want was grain 
for his island city, and who doubtless expected a por- 
tion of some of the rich plains of central Palestine, 
could not conceal his disappointment when he saw the 
mountain towns and their rugged environs, and de- 
clined them as useless (1 Kings ix, 11, and 2 Chron. 
viii, 2). Sec Cabul. At this period, Galilee, though 
within the allotted territory of Naphtali, docs not ap- 
pear to have been occupied by the Israelites. It was 
only after Hiram had declined the towns that Solomon 
rebuilt and colonized them (2 Chron. 1. c.). Hazor, 
the great stronghold and capital of the northern Ca- 
naanites, lay within or near Galilee; and, though 
Joshua had captured and burned it (Josh, xi), yet dur- 
ing the rule of the judges it was possessed by a king, 
Jabin, whose general, Sisera, dwelt in the neighbor- 
ing Harosheth of the Gentiles (Judg. iv). The presence 
of these powerful and warlike tribes, and the natural 
strength of the country, sufficiently account for the 
continued occupation of the old Gentile inhabitants. 
David subdued, but did not expel them. Solomon, as 
has been seen, took some of their towns ; but they re- 
mained among these rugged mountains in such num- 
bers that in the time of Isaiah the district was defi- 
nitely known by the name of “Galilee of the Gentiles” 
(dT^il Isa. ix, 1 : in Matt, iv, 15, YakiXaia rw v 
Wvibv; in 1 Macc. v, 15, rVAiXma ciWofpvXiov’). It 
is probable that the strangers increased in number, 
and became during the captivity the great body of the 
inhabitants; extending themselves also over the sur- 
rounding country, they gave to their new territories 
the old name, until at length Galilee became one of 
the largest provinces of Palestine. In the time of the 
Maccabees, Galilee contained only a few Jews living 
in the midst of a large heathen population (1 Macc. v, 
20-23) ; Strabo states that in his day it was chiefly in- 
habited bv S} r rians, Phoenicians, and Arabs (xvi, p. 
760) ; and Josephus says Greeks also dwelt in its cities 
{Life, 12). The name also occurs in Tebit i, 2 ; Judith 
xi, S, etc. 

In the time cf our Lord, all Palestine was divided 
into three provinces, Judaea, Samaria, and Galilee 
(Acts ix, 31; Luke xvii, 11; Josephus, War, iii, 3). 
The latter included the whole northern section of the 
country, comprising the ancient territories of Issacliar, 
Zebulun, Asher, and Naphtali. Josephus defines its 
boundaries, and gives a tolerably full description of its 
scenery, products, and population. lie says the soil 
is rich and well cultivated ; fruit and forest trees of 
all kinds abound ; numerous large cities and populous 
villages, amounting in all to no less than two hundred 
and forty, thickly stud the whole face of the country; 
the inhabitants are industrious and warlike, being 
trained to arms from their infancy {War, iii, 3, 3; 
Life , 45). On the west it was bounded by the territo- 
ry of Ptolemais, which probably included the whole 
plain of Akka to the foot of Carmel. The southern 
border ran along the base of Carmel and of the hills 
of Samaria to Mount Gilboa, and then descended the 
valley of Jezreel by Scythopolis to the Jordan. (The 


GALILEE 


GALILEE 


718 


Talmud, Gittin, vii, 7, gives a place called 'HSS 

as the southern limit.) The Liver Jordan, the Sea of 
Galilee, and the Upper Jordan to the fountain at Dan, 
formed the eastern border (Belaud, Pula’ st . p. 181); 
and the northern ran from Dan westward across the 
mountain ridge till it touched the territory of the Phoe- 
nicians (Josephus, War, iii, 3,1; compare Luke viii, 
2G). See Palestine. 

Galilee was divided into two sections (Cyrill, c. Jul. 
ii), “ Lower” (>/ Kara) and “Upper” (>/ uvm Va\t\aia, 
Josephus, ll’c/r, ii, 20, G; Ant. v, 1, 22). The Talmud 
has a threefold division, with reference to the Sabbati- 
cal year ( Shcbiith , ix, 2; “Upper Galilee 
embraces all above Capharananias, and does not pro- 
duce sycamores; Lower [“THm], below C., and 
bears sycamores; the valley is the territory of Tibe- 
rias” [the Ghor]). A single glance at the country 
shows that the division was natural. Lower Galilee 
included the great plain of Esdraelon, with its off- 
shoots, which run down to the Jordan and the Lake of 
Tiberias: and the whole of the hill-country adjoining 
it on the north to the foot of the mountain range. The 
words of Josephus are clear and important (liar, iii, 
3, 1) : “It extends from Tiberias to Zabulon, adjacent 
to which, on the sea-coast, is Ptoleinais. In breadth 
it stretches from a village called Xaloth, lying in the 
Great Plain, to Bersabe.” “The village of Xaloth” 
is evidentlv the Chesulloth of Josh, xix, 12, now called 
Iksal, and situated at the base of Mount Tabor, on the 
northern border of the Great Plain (Porter, Handbook, 
p. 350). But a comparison of Josephus, Ant. xx, G, 
4, with lUnr, iii, 2, 4. proves that Lower Galilee ex- 
tended as far as the village of Ginen, the modern Je- 
nin, on the extreme southern side of the plain. The 
site of the northern border town, Bersabe, is not 
known ; but we learn incidentally that both Arbela 
and Jotopata were in Lower Galilee (Josephus, Life, 
37 ; War, ii, 20, G); and as the former was situated 



U.ULC V * ? i 

Handbook, p. 432, 377), we conclude that Lower Galilee j 
included the whole region extending from the plain of 
Akka, on the west, to the shores of the lake on the 
east. It was thus one of the richest and most beauti- 
ful sections of Palestine. The plain of Esdraelon pre- 
sents an unbroken surface of fertile soil — soil so good 
that to enjoy it the tribe of Issachar condescended to a 
semi-nomadic state, and “became a servant to trib- 
ute” (Dent, xxxiii, 18; Gen. xlix, 14, 15). With the 
exception of a few rocky summits around Nazareth the 
hills are all wooded, and sink down in graceful slopes 
to broad winding vales of the richest green. The out- 
lines are varied, the colors soft, and the whole land- 
scape is characterized by that picturesque luxuriance 
which one secs in parts of Tuscany. The blessings 
promised by Jacob and Moses to Zebulun and Asher 
seem to he here inscribed on the features of the coun- 
try. Zebulun, nestling amid these hills, “offers sac- 
rifices of righteousness” of the abundant flocks nour- 
ished by their rich pastures ; he rejoices “ in his goings 
out” along the fertile plain of Esdraelon ; “he sucks 
of the abundance of the seas” — his possessions skirting 
the Bay of 1 laifa at the base of Carmel ; and he “ sucks 
of treasures hid in the sand,” possibly in allusion to 
the glass, which was first made from the sands of the 
Liver Helus (Dent, xxxiii, 18, 10; Pliny, v, 10; Taci- 
tus, Hint. v). Asher, dwelling amid the hills on the 
north-vest of Zebulun, on the borders of Phoenicia, 
“dips his feet in oil,” the produce of luxuriant olive 
groves, such as still distinguish this region; “his 
bread,” the produce of the plain of Phoenicia, and the 
fertile upland valleys “is fat;” “he yields royal dain- 
ties” — oil and wine from his olives and vineyards, and 
milk and butter from his pastures (Gen. xlix, 20; i 
Deut. xxxiii. 21, 25). The chief towns of Lower Gal- 
ilee were Tiberias, Tarichcca, at the southern end of I 


the Sea of Galilee, and Scpplioris (Josephus, Life, 9, 
25, 29, 37). The latter played an important part in 
the last great Jewish war (Josephus, Life, <15; War, 
ii, 18, 11). It is now called Sefurieh, and is situated 
about three miles north of Nazareth (Porter, Handbook, 
p. 378). There were, besides, two strong fortresses. Jo- 
tapata, now called Jefat, and Mount Tabor (Josephus, 
War, iii, 7, 3 sq. ; iv,l, G). The towns most celebra- 
ted in N.-T. history are Nazareth, Cana, and Tiberias 
(Luke i, 2G; John ii, 1 ; vi, 1). 

If per Galilee , according to Josephus, extended from 
Bersabe on the south to the village of Baca, on the bor- 
ders of the territory of Tyre, and from Meloth on the 
west to Thella, a city near the Jordan (lU«r, iii, 3, 1). 
None of these places are now known, but there is no 
difficulty in ascertaining the position and approximate 
extent of the province. It embraced the whole moun- 
tain range lying between the upper Jordan and Phoeni- 
cia. Its southern border ran along the foot of the 
Safed range from the north-west angle of the Sea of 
Galilee to the plain of Akka. To this region the name 
“ Galilee of the Gentiles” is given in the O. and N. T. 
(Isa. ix, 1 ; Matt, iv, 15). So Eusebius states ( Onom . 
s. v. r«Ai\ni«). The town of Capernaum, on the north 
shore of the lake, was in Upper Galilee (Onom. s. v. 
Capliarnaum), and this fact is important, as showing 
how far the province extended southward, and as prov- 
ing that it, as well as Lower Galilee, touched the lake. 
The mountain range of Upper Galilee is a southern 
prolongation of Lebanon, from which it is separated by 
the deep ravine of the Lcontes. See Lebanon. The 
summit of the range is table-land, pai t of which is beau- 
tifully wooded with dwarf oak, intermixed with tangled 
shrubberies of hawthorn and aibutus. The whole is 
vari d by fertile upland plains, green forest glades, and 
wild picturesque glens breaking down to the east and 
west. The population is still numerous and industri- 
ous, consisting chieliy of Metawileh, a sect of Moham- 
medans. Safed is the principal town, and contains 
{.bout 4000 souls, one third of whom are Jews. It is 
cue of the four holy Jewish cities of Palestine, and has 
for three centuries or more been celebrated for the sa- 
eredness of its tombs and the learning of its rabbins. 
Safed seems to be the centre of an extensive volcanic 
district. Shocks of earthquake are felt every few 
years. One occurred in 1S37 which killed about 5000 
persons (Porter, Handbook, p.438). On the table-land' 
of Upper Galilee lie the ruins of Kedcsh-Naphtali (Josh, 
xx, 7), and Giseala (now el-Jish), a city fortified bv Jo- 
sephus, and celebrated as the last place in Galilee that 
held out against the Bomans (War, ii, 22, G; iv, 1, 1 ; 
2, 1-5). 

Galilee Avas the scene of the greater part of our 
Lord's private life and public acts (see Wichmanns- 
haiisen, De Galileca, Yitcb. 1711 ; B widens, De Galikva 
rebus gestis Christi clara, Jen. 1718 \_MisceU. Sacr. iii, 
115G sq.]; Loss, De Gal. Servat . miracc. theatro , Gott. 
1775 [Opp. 1781, ii, 309 sq.]). His early years were 
spent at Nazareth, and when he entered on his great 
work he made Capernaum his home (Matt, iv, 13; ix, 
1). It is a remarkable fact that the first three Gospels 
are chiellv taken up with our Lord’s ministrations in 
this province, while the Gospel of John dwells more 
upon those in Judaea (see Miller, De online rerum 
Christi in Galilcua gee t arum, Ilal. 1770). The nature 
of our Lord’s parables and illustrations was greatly in- 
fluenced by the peculiar features and products of the 
country. The vineyard, the fig-tree, the shepherd, 
and the desert in the parable of the Good Samaritan, 
were all appropriate in Juda?a; while the corn-fields 
(Mark iv, 28), the fisheries (Matt, xiii, 47), the mer- 
chants (Matt, xiii, 45), and the flowers (Matt, vi, 28), 
are no less appropriate in Galilee. The apostles were 
all either Galilicahs by birth or residence (Acts i, 11), 
and as such they were despised, as their master had 
been, by the proud Jews (John i, *1G; vii, 52; Acts ii^ 
7). It apj>ears, also, that the pronunciation of those 


GALILEE 


719 


GALILEE 


Jews who resided in Galilee had become peculiar, prob- ! mer says, “ The Jordan discharges itself into a lake, 
ably from their contact with their Gentile neighbors by many writers known as Genesera, 10 miles long and 
(Matt, xxvi, 73; Mark xiv, 70; see Lightfoot, Op p. ii, j G wide, which is skirted by the pleasant towns Julias 
77). On the death of Herod the Great the province and Hippo on the east, of Tarichese on the south (a 
of Galilee was given by (Ansar to his son Antipas j name which is by many persons given to the lake it- 

(Joseph. War, ii, G, 3). After the destruction of Jem- 

salem Galilee became the chief seat of Jewish schools 
of learning, and the residence of their most celebrated 
rabbins. The National Council or Sanhedrim was 
taken for a time to Jabneh in Philistia, but was soon 
removed to Sepphoris, and afterwards to Tiberias 
(Lightfoot, Op}), ii, p. 141). The Minima was here 
compiled by Rabbi Judah Hakkodesli (eir. A.l). 109- 
220), and a few years afterwards the Gemara was add- 
ed (Buxtorf, Tiberias , p. 19). Remains of splendid 
synagogues still exist in many of the old towns and 
villages, showing that from the 2d to the 7th century 
the Jews were as prosperous as they were numerous 
(Porter, Handbook, p. 427, 440). — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, 
s. v. See Galil.eax. 

GALILEE, Sea of (i) SaXavoa rfjg ra\i\atag t 
Matt, iv, 18; xv, 29 ; Mark i, 1G ; vii, 31 ; John vi, 1), 
called also the Sea of Tiberias (John vi, 1 ; xxi, 1 ; 
hence its modern name Bahr el-Tubariyeh ), the Lake 
(Xifiwj) of Gennesaret (Luke v, 1), or emphatically the 
Sea (?) SdXaaoa simply, Matt, iv, 15); in the O. T. 



self), and of Tiberias on the west” (v, 15). Josephus 
refers to other features. “ The Lake of Gennesaretk de- 
rives its appellation from the adjacent district. It is 40 
furlongs (five Roman miles) broad, by 110 (17£ miles) 
long. Its waters are sweet, and extremely pleasant 
to drink, as they flow in a clearer stream than the 
muddy collections of marshes, and they can be drawn 
free from impurities, being throughout confined by ab- 
rupt and sandy shores. They are of a medium tem- 
perature, milder than those of the river or the foun- 
tain, yet uniformly colder than might be expected from 

the expanse of the lake The kinds offish found 

here differ from those elsewhere met with” (War, iii, 
10, 7). Both these arc so near the truth that they 
could scarcely have been mere estimates. Its extreme 
length is 124 geographical miles, and its breadth 6; 
equal to about 16 by 71- Roman miles. It is of an oval 
shape, or rather the form of an egg, with the large end 
to the north. The Sea of Galilee has none of those 
picturesque or sublime features for which the lakes of 
Italy and Switzerland are justly celebrated ; it has not 
even the stern grandeur of the Dead 
Sea. The shores are singularly uni- 
form. There are no bold cliffs jutting 
far out into deep water; there are no 
winding bays running away inland. 
The bed of the sea is like a huge basin. 
Along its eastern and western sides the 
banks rise steep, bare, and rugged, to 
the height of nearly 2000 feet ; and their 
tops, especially those on the east, are as 
level as a wall. At the north and south 
ends, where the Jordan enters and pass- 
es out, there are wide openings, through 
which views are gained up and down 
the valley. Yet nature has not left this 
scene altogether destitute of ornament. 
The scenery is not quite so dreary, nor 
arc the hues of the landscape so dead 
and sombre as Dr. Traill would have ns 
imagine (Traill’s Josephus, ii, p. cvi). 
True, when the sun is high and the sky 
cloudless, and when the pilgrim looks 
down from the top of the mountains, 
there is a dreariness in the landscape, 
and a uniformity of cold gray color, 
which wearies the eye; but let him go 
down to the shore and wait till the sun 
declines, and he will be enchanted with 
the deep ethereal blue of the smooth wa- 
ter, and the tints, “rose-colored, pearl- 
grav, and purple, blended together,” and 
thrown in soft shades over the sides of 
The pale blue cone 


|»j 

SP 1 ' I 

|| the encircling hills. 




2 3 5 G 

Shores of the Sea of Galilee. 


rarely alluded to (Numb, xxxiv, 11 ; Josh, xii, 3; xiii, 
27) as the Sea of Cinnereth or Cinneroth (q. v.). It is 
the second of the three lakes into which the Jordan 
flows (Tacitus, Hist, v, 0). This sheet of "water is par- 
ticularly described by Pliny and Josephus. The for- 


$ AJ of Hermon, with its glittering crown of 
snow, forms a glorious background (Van 
I de Velde, ii, 388 ; Robinson, ii, 380 sq. ; 
I Stanley, Palestine , p. 3G2 ; Porter, Hand - 
^ J book, p. 418). Round the whole shore, 
j with only one or two short interruptions, 
there is a broad strand of white pebbles, 
mixed with little shells. The Jordan 
enters at the extreme northern end of 
the lake, and leaves again at the south- 
's ern. In fact, the bed of the lake is just 

a lower section of the great Jordan val- 
ley. The utter loneliness and absolute 
stillness of the scene are exceedingly impressive. It 
seems as if all nature had gone to rest, languishing un- 
der that scorching heat. IIow different it was in the 
days of our Lord! Then all was life and bustle along 
the shores ; the cities and villages that thickly studded 





GALILEE 


720 


GALILEO GALILEI 


Cviem resounded with the hum of a busy population, j 
while from hill-side and cornfield come the cheerful 
crv of shepherd and ploughman. The lake, too, was 
dotted with dark fishing-boats, and spangled with white 
sails. Now, a mournful and solitary silence reigns i 
alike over sea and shore. The cities are in ruins. 
Capernaum. Chorazin, the two (?) Bethsaidas, Hippo, 
Gamala, and Tarichea?, are completely deserted. Ti- 
berias and Magdala are the only inhabited spots; and 
for several miles inland in every direction the coun- 
try looks waste and desolate. The inhabitants — mer- 
chants, fishermen, and peasants — are nearly all gone. 
The few that remain in the shattered houses of Tibe- 
rias, and the mud hovels of Magdala, and the black 
tents of the wandering Bedouin, seem worn and wasted 
by poverty and sickness. In 1858 the Sea of Galilee 
could just boast of one small boat, and it was so rotten 
and leaky as not to be seaworthy. The fish, however, 
are as abundant as ever ; for though only little hand- 
nets are used, a considerable sum is paid to the gov- | 
eminent for the privilege of fishing (Burekhardt, Trav- 
els in Syria , p. 332; Bobinson, ii. 38G). It was ob- 
served by Hasselquist that some of the same species 
ot' fish are found in the Sea of Galilee as in the Nile 
( Travels , p. 158) : the same fact had been noted by Jo- 
sephus (Mar, iii, 10, 8). The kinds referred to are 
Cyprinus Benni, Silurus , Mormyrus , etc. (See Wilson's 
Lands of the Bible, ii, 113; Bobinson, ii, 38G). Two 
modes are now employed to catch the fish. One is a 
liand-nct, with which a man, usually naked (John xxi, 
7), stalks along the shore, and, watching his opportu- 
nity, throws it round the game with a jerk. The other 
mode is still more curious. Bread-crumbs are mixed 
up with bichlorid of mercury, and sown over the wa- 
ter; the fish swallow the poison and die. The dead 
bodies float, are picked up, and taken to the market of 
Tiberias! (Porter, Iland-bool ;, p. 432.) The water of 
the lake is sweet, cool, and transparent ; and as the 
beach is everywhere pebbly, it has a beautiful spark- 
ling look. This fact is somewhat strange, when we 
consider that it is exposed to the powerful rays of the 
;-un, that many warm and brackish springs flow into 
it, and that it is supplied by the Jordan which rushes 
into its northern end, a turbid, ruddy torrent. 

The most remarkable fact in the physical geography 
of the Sea of Galilee is its great depression. The re- 
sults of barometrical observations have varied between 
845 feet and GGG feet, but according to the trigonomet- 
rical survey of Lieut. Symonds, B.E., in 1841, its de- 
pression is only 328 feet. In this Van de Velde thinks 
there must have been some mistake, and he adheres 
to the figures of Lieut. Lynch, which give G53 feet, as 
probably the most accurate (J/emoir, p. 1G8, 181). 
This has a marked efFcet on the temperature, climate, 
and natural products. The heat is intense during the 
summer months. The harvest on the shore is nearly 
a month earlier than on the neighboring high lands of 
Galilee and Bashan. Frost is unknown, and snow 
very rarely falls. The trees, plants, and vegetables 
are those usually found in Egypt; such as the palm, 
the lote-tree ( Zizypkus lotus), the indigo plant, etc. 
(Bobinson, ii, 388; Josephus, War, iii, 10, 7 and 8). 
The surrounding hills are sometimes described as bare 
and barren, sometimes as green and fertile. In April 
the tops of the hills are gray and rocky, and destitute 
of vegetation. Lower down, the grass, which during 
the winter rains had flourished, is there withering in 
the sun (Matt, xiii, G); but in the valleys and ravines, 
wherever any of the many fountains and streams 
gushed forth, there is verdure and cultivation (Matt, 
xiii, 8). Though the whole basin of the lake, and in- 
deed the Jordan valley, is of volcanic origin, as evi- 
denced by the thermal springs and the frequent earth- 
quakes, yet the main formation of the surrounding wall 
of mountains is limestone. A large number of Hack 
stones and boulders of basaltic tufa are scattered along 
the slopes and upland plains, and dikes of basalt here 


and there burst through the limestone strata in the 
neighborhood of Tiberias and along the northern shore. 
Although the surface of the lake is usually very placid, 
yet travellers (Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 32 ; Ilack- 
ett, IUustra. of Scripture, p. 319) testify to the sudden 
fury of storms burning down into this sunken basin 
through the ravined shore as in the days of our Sav- 
iour (Luke viii, 23; see Michaelis, De tempt state, etc., 
Hal. 1739; also De sensu spirituali tempest a tig, etc., ib. 
cod. ; Duthovius, Dirinilus Chr. ex miraeido hoc demon- 
strata, in the Bill. Brern. i, GO-85; ii, 484-7). — Kitto, 
s. v. See Genxesaketh ; Sea. 

Galilee, a poreli or chapel, usually at the west end 
of a church, where the monks collected on returning 
from processions, and where females were permitted 
to visit their relatives among the monks; also a por- 
tion of the church, usually a step lower than the rest 
of the church, deemed less sacred than the remainder 
of the edifice, and beyond which women were not per- 
mitted to pass. Three of them remain in England, at 
Durham, Lincoln, and Ely cathedrals. The galilee 
at Durham has five aisles and three altars, and the 
consistory court is held in it; that of Lincoln is at the 
south-west corner of the south transept, and is cruci- 
form in shape ; while that of Ely differs little from an 
entrance porch. (G. F. C.) 

Galileo Galilei, one of the most celebrated Ital- 
ian writers on natural sciences, mathematics, and as- 
tronomy, was born February 18, 15G4. He at first 
studied medicine, but soon devoted himself wholly to 
natural and mathematical science. In 1589 lie was 
appointed professor of mathematics at the University 
of Pisa. In 1592 he was called by the republic of 
Venetia to the University of Padua. From 1GC4 Gal- 
ileo devoted himself chiefly to astronomy, and scon 
became as celebrated by his astronomical discoveries 
as lie had formerly been by those in mathematics 
and mechanics. It was especially the introduction of 
the telescope in 1G09 which gave a powerful impulse 
to his genius. lie was the first to notice the moun- 
tains of the moon, the satellites of Jupiter, the ring of 
! Saturn, and the spots on the sun; and from the mo- 
tion of the latter he derived an argument in favor of 
the motion of the sun. Galileo published his discov- 
eries in his Sidejcus nuncius (1G10). Soon the grand- 
duke of Tuscany called him as first professor of math- 
ematics to Pisa, without obliging him to lecture, in 
order to give him an opportunity to devote himself 
wholly to scientific researches. But his reputation 
awakened against him a great deal of hatred and 
envy, and finally he was denounced to the Inquisition 
for defending and developing the Copernican system. 
The Inquisition found the views of Copernicus and 
; Galileo irreconcilable with the letter of the Scripture. 
Galileo went himself to Borne to defend himself, but 
without effect. His astronomical views were exam- 
ined by the theological qualifiers, and declared to be 
absurd, false in philosophy, and contrary to the Holy 
Scriptures. In 1G1G and 3G20, decrees were issued 
allowing to set lip the system of Copernicus as a 
hypothesis, but forbidding it to be defended as a the- 
sis. Galileo paid no attention to this demand, but six- 
teen years later published his “ Dialogues on the two 
greatest cosmic systems, that of Ptolemy and that of 
Copernicus,” in which the two systems are compared, 
and, to satisfy the Inquisition, the victory is awarded 
to the champion of the system of Ptolemy; but, in 
fact, the arguments used in its behalf are so weak, and 
so manifestly inferior to those adduced in favor of the 
Copernican system, as to leave no doubt as to the real 
opinions of Galileo. II is enemies found it easy to 
cause new measures to he taken against him bv the 
Inquisition. Galileo was in 1G33 again summoned to 
Borne. He was at first allowed to live in the Villa 
Medici : subsequently he was some time detained as a 
prisoner in the buildings of the Inquisition ; finally he 


GALITZIX 


721 


GALL 


was sent back to the Villa Medici. The result of the 
investigation was that Galileo was found guilty of 
having adhered to and of having supported heretical 
opinions ; and he had to abjure his errors in a kneeling 
posture, and to sign the minutes of the proceedings 
against him. He was condemned to be imprisoned 
at the Inquisition during pleasure, and to recite once 
a week for three years the penitential Psalms. Gali- 
leo submitted to the judgment, and, kneeling and in 
sackcloth, swore upon the Gospels never again to 
teach the earth's motion and the sun’s stability. 
When rising from the ground, lie is reported to have 
said, in an undertone, E par si muove (“And it does 
move, for all that”) ; but the authenticity of this re- 
port is doubted. After four days’ confinement, he was 
allowed to remove to the residence of the Tuscan am- 
bassador, but he was kept under surveillance during 
the whole remainder of his life. In 1631 he asked 
permission to visit Florence for medical assistance, 
but the permission was not granted until 1638. The 
severity of the Inquisition was somewhat relaxed in 
1637, when he became almost totally blind. During 
the latter years of his life he seems to have paid less 
attention to astronomy, but the works of this period 
on other subjects show that his genius was as great as 
ever. lie died January 8, 1612. The city of Pisa 
erected a statue in his honor. The completes! edition 
of the works of Galileo is Le Opere di Galileo Galilei 
(Florence, 1842-56, 15 vols.). The most important of 
his works is Discorsi intomo a due move scienze (Ley- 
den, 1638). Biographies of Galileo were written by 
Glnrardini,Viviani (1651), Frisi (Livorno, 1775), Jage- 
mann (Weimar, 1783), Nelli (Lausanne, 1793), Venturi 
(Milan, 1818-21), Libri (Milan, 1841), Brewster (Lon- 
don, 1841), Cattauro (Milan, 1843), Caspar (Stuttgardt, 
1854), Chasles (Paris, 1862). On the trial of Galileo 
by the Inquisition, there are special works and essays 
by Marini ( Galileo e V Inquisizione, Home, 1850); Mad- | 
den ( Galileo and the Inquisition , London, 1868) ; Vosen 
{G. und die Rom. Verurthcilung des copernicanischen 
Systems , Frankf. 1865); The Catholic World (Jan. and 
Feb. 1869). (A. J. S.) 

Galitzin. See Gallitzin. 

Gall, the representative in the A.V. of two Hebrew 
words and one Greek. 

1. Mercrah' or merorah' { IT"H*2 or !Vnp ; Sept. 
yoA//, kukci , ciaira ; Ynlg .fel, anuintudo , viscera vied) 
denotes etymologically bitterness : sec Job xiii, 26, 
“Thou writes! bitter things against me.” Hence the 
term is applied to the “bile” or “gall” from its in- 
tense bitterness (Job xvi, 13). The metaphors in this 
verse are taken from the practice of huntsmen, who 
first surround the beast, then shoot it, and next take 
out the entrails. The term also stands for the gall- 
bladder or vitals (Job xx, 25). It is also used of the 
“ poison” of serpents (Job xx, 14), which the ancients 
erroneously believed was their gall : see Pliny, II. A r . 

xi, 87, “No one should be astonished that it is the gall 
which constitutes the poison of serpents” (comp. Heb. 

xii, 15, “ root of bitterness”). See Liver. 

2. Ilosh (— X"l or ; Sept. yoA//, 7 riKpia, dypiorr - 
rig ; Vulg. fel, amaritudo , caput), generally translated 
“gall” by the A.V., but in Hos. x, 4 rendered “ hem- 
lock:” in Dent, xxxii, 33, and Job xx, 16, it denotes 
the “poison” or “venom” of serpents. From Deut. 
xxix, 18, “ a root that bearcth rosh ” (margin “ a poison- 
ful herb”), and Lam. iii, 19, “the wormwood and the 
rosh,” compared with Hos. x, 4, “judgment springeth 
up ns rosh,” it is evident that the II eh. term denotes 
some bitter, and perhaps poisonous plant, though it 
may also be used, as in Psa. lxix, 21, in the general 
sense of “ something very hitter.” Celsius ( llierob . 
ii, 46-52) thinks “ hemlock” (Conium maculatum) is in- 
tended, and quotes Jerome on Ilosea in support of liis 
opinion, though it seems that this commentator had in 
view the couch-grass (Triticum repens) rather than 

III.— Z z 


“hemlock.” Rosenmiiller {Bib. Bot. p. 118) is in- 
clined to think that the Loliuni temulenium best agrees 
with the passage in Hosea where the rosh is said to 
grow “ in the furrows of the field.” Other writers 
have supposed, and with some reason (from Deut. 
xxxii, 32, “their grapes are grapes of rosh”), that some 
berry-bearing plant must be intended. Gesenius ( Thes . 
p. 1251) understands “poppies;” Michaelis {Suppl. 
Lex. Heb. p. 2220) is of opinion that rosh may be cither 
the Loliuni temulentum or the Solanum (“nightshade”). 
Oedmann ( 1 ’erm. Samml. pt. i v, c. 10) argues in favor of 
the Colocynth. The most probable conjecture, for proof 
there is none, is that of Gesenius : the capsules of the 
Papaccracete may well give the name of rosh (“ head”) 
to the plant in question, just as we speak of popp} r 
heads. The various species of this family spring up 
quickly in cornfields, and the juice is extremely bitter. 
A steeped solution of poppy heads may be “the water 
of gall” of Jer. viii, 14, unless, as Gesenius thinks, the 
may he the poisonous extract, opium. This 
word is always used figuratively to represent sin, and 
never designates the animal secretion called gall. See 
Hemlock. 

3. Gr. yoA/;, prop, the bitter secretion gall. In the 
story of Tobit the gall of a fish is said to have been 
used to cure his father’s blindness (Tobit vi, 8 ; xi, 10, 
13). Pliny refers to the use of the same substance for 
diseases of the eye {Hist. Nat. xxviii, 10); also speak- 
ing of the fish callionymus, he says it has a similar cu- 
rative virtue (xxxii, 4, 7). Galen and other writers 
praise the nse of the liver of the silurus in cases of dim- 
ness of sight. See Blindness. 

The passages in the Gospels which relate the cir- 
cumstance of the Roman soldiers offering our Lord, 
just before his crucifixion, “vinegar mingled with 
gall,” according to Matthew (xxvii, 34), and “ wine 
mingled with myrrh,” according to Mark’s account 
(xv, 23), require some consideration. The first-named 
evangelist uses yoA i), which is the Sept, rendering of 
the lleb. rosh in the Fsalm (lxix, 21) that foretels the 
Lord’s sufferings. Mark explains the bitter ingredi- 
ent in the sour vinous drink to be “ myrrh” {oiuog ia- 
pvpvKTpkvoc), for we cannot regard the transactions as 
different. “Matthew, in his usual way,” as Ilengsten- 
berg {Comment, in Psa. lxix, 21) remarks, “designates 
the drink theologically : always keeping his eye on the 
prophecies of the O. T., he speaks of gall and vinegar 
for the purpose of rendering the fulfilment of the 
Psalms more manifest. Mark again (xv, 23), accord- 
ing to his way, looks rather at the outward quality of 
the drink.” Bengel tikes quite a different view; he 
thinks both myrrh and gall were added to the sour 
wine {Gnom. Nov. Test. Matt. 1. c.). Hengstenberg’s 
view is far preferable; nor is “gall” (yoA if) to be un- 
derstood in any other sense than as expressing the bit- 
ter nature of the draught. As to the intent of the 
proffered drink, it is generally supposed that it was for 
the purpose of deadening pain. It was customary to 
give criminals just before their execution a cup of 
wine with frankincense in it, to which reference is 
made, it is believed, by the oh'og Karavv^ewg of Psa. 
lx, 3; see also Prov. xxxi, 6. This the Talmud states 
was given in order to alleviate the pain. See Buxtorf 
{Lex. Talm. col. 2131), who quotes from the Talmud 
{Sunhed. lol. 43, 1) to that effect. Rosenmiiller {Bib. 
Bot. p. 163) is of opinion that the myrrh was given to 
our Lord, not for the purpose of alleviating his suffer- 
ings, but in order that be might be sustained until the 
punishment was completed. He quotes from Apuleius 
{Metamor. viii), who relates that a certain priest “dis- 
figured himself with a multitude of blows, having pre- 
viously strengthened himself by taking myrrh.” How- 
far the frankincense in the cup, as mentioned in tho 
Talmud, was supposed to possess soporific properties, 
or in any way to induce an alleviation of pain, it is 
difficult to determine. The same must be said of the 
olvog iaftvpviopivog of Mark, for it is quite certain 


GALL 


*722 


GALLAS 


that neither of these two drugs in question, both of 
which are the produce of the same natural order of 
plants ( Amyrulacea ), is ranked among the hypnopoie- 
tics by modern physicians. It is true that Dioscorides 
(i, 77) ascribes a soporific property to myrrh, but it 
does not seem to have been so regarded by an}' other 
author. Notwithstanding, therefore, the almost con- 


break of the Reformation in 1525 they threw off their 
subjection, and embraced the new doctrines. At the 
close, however, of the religious war in 1532, the Catho- 
lic religion was re-established, and the abbot reinsta- 
ted, though with diminished authority, in his ancient 
dignity. At the French Revolution, the abbey of St. 
Gall was secularized (1798), and its revenues were 


current opinion of ancient and modern commentators, soon afterwards sequestrated (1805). B} a later ecclc- 


tliat the “wine mingled with myrrh” was offered to 
our Lord as an anodyne, we cannot readily come to 
the same conclusion. Had the soldiers intended a mit- 
igation of suffering, they w’ould doubtless have offered 
a draught drugged with some substance having nar- 
cotic properties. The drink in question was probably 
a mere ordinary beverage of the Romans, who were in 

the habit of seasoning their various wines, which, as Gall, st., Manuscript (Codex Sangallensis, 
they contained little alcohol, soon turned sour, with usually designated as A of the Gospels), one of the 
various spices, drugs, and perfumes, such as myrrh, niost important of the later uncial MSS., containing 
cassia, myrtle, pepper, etc. (Smith, Diet, of Class. An- j the four Gospels (with only a single hiatus, John xix, 


siastical arrangement, the abbacy of St. Gall was 
raised to the dignity of a bishopric, which in ls23 
was united to that of Chur. They were afterwards, 
however, separated, and in 1847 St. Gall was erected 
into a bishopric, with a distinct jurisdiction.” — Cham- 
bers, Encyclopaedia, s. v. ; Herzog, lkaUEncyldopddie , 
iv, G43. 


tiq. s. v. Vinum). — Smith, s. v. See Myrrii. 

Gall, Nikolaus. See Gallus. 

Gall, St., monastery of, one of the most celebrated 
monasteries of Europe, at St. Gall, in Switzerland. It 
w f as founded in the 7th century. Its wealth and repu- 
tation became very great under Othmar, its first abbot 
(720-7G0), who founded a hospital for lepers in connec- 
tion with the monastery. In the 8th century it be- 
came distinguished for learning, especially under ab- 
bot Gosbcrt (815-837). “ The abbey of St. Gall grad- 

ually became one of the masterpieces of mediaeval ar- 
chitecture; and the genius and skill which w T ere lav- 
ished on its construction, and on the decoration of its 
halls and cloisters, had a large share in developing 
the Christian art of the period. The monks of St. ten wrongly divided, with dots at the end of almost 
Gall, too, may be reckoned among the best friends and every Greek word, and marks >>> inserted to fill 
preservers of ancient literature. They were indefati- up vacant spaces. 

?; l r l ' le in „‘!\ e C ° ,lcCti0,1 . alUl tra, ; scr M lti01 ;, of M eoT amice non ijusto tibi Vne 

i ) ica , patristic, saciei am pro ane £(7r£| , . pol , u ^ t • arroir • i : ,T(upt ‘ ovi c 4 uccku) 4 ae 4 Oi/^i 

ex denario convenisti incc! tolle tua ct vade 

CTjyafnov crvi's<pu)vi](T(i(T * jlioi * Apor * to ‘ aov yai vmiye 
volo auto hide novissimo dare sicut et tibi anta non 11 

GfXtU CE TOVTO) TO) Ed^UTO) COVVCll 0)d KUl * GOl * II * OVK E £ 
Specimen of the (Jodex Sangallensis (Matt, xx, 13-15), in ordinary type. 


17-35) and an interlined Latin version, rudely written 
on coarse vellum in a very peculiar character. It 
comprises 197 leaves, 4to, 10 inches by 8f in size, with 
20 to 2G (usually 21) lines of text on each page. Be- 
fore Matthew are placed prologues, Latin verses, the 
Eusebian canons in Roman letters, tables of the Kttyd- 
\ctui in Greek and Lat., etc. The text is divided into 
regular ari\oi. There are also rtr\oi, and the Ammo- 
nian sections. It has so many resemblances to the 
Codex Boernerianus (G of Paul's epistles), as to show 
that they both once belonged together. See Boeiiner 
Manuscript. The Gospel of Mark seems to repre- 
sent a text different from that of the other evangelists. 
It agrees in general with the older MSS. There are 
scarcely any breathings or accents ; the words are of- 


history, classical, liturgical, and legendary. 

Several of the classics, especially Quintilian, 

Silius Italicus, and Ammianus Marcellinus, 
have been preserved solely through the MSS. 
of St. Gall. For a time the abbey w^as sub- 
ject to the bishop of Constance, and an ani- 
mated dispute was for a long time main- 
tained between that prelate and the monks as to the 


This MS. is preserved in the monastery of St. Gall, 


right of electing the abbot. It ended, however, in Switzerland, where it was probably transcribed orig- 
thc recognition of the right of free election ; and inallv. It was first inspected by Gerbert in 1773, was 
ultimately, from the growth of the monastic posses- named by Scholz (in his N. T. 1830), am! has been pub- 


} important position w hich the abbot lished in a full lithographic fac-similc of every page bv 
astic domain, which comprised a great \ Rcttig (Zurich, 183G), with Prolegomena. It seems to 
" • • have been written by Latin (perhaps Irish) monks in 

the 9th century. — Scrivener, Introd. p. 122 sq. ; Tre- 
gelles in Horne’s Introduction , iv, 19G sq. See Manu- 
scripts, Biblical. 


sions, and the 
held, the monastic 

part of northern Switzerland, became a distinct juris- 
diction, within which the abbot, like many of his breth- 
ren in the great Benedictine monasteries, exercised 
all the rights of a suzerain. For several centuries 
the abbey of St. Gall held one of the highest places 
in the order. Its schools enjoyed w r ide reputation. 

Its members held a distinguished place among the 
scholars of mediaeval Germany ; and many of them, i 
as, for example, Notker, are known to have cultivated 

not only the ordinary learning of the schools, but also I pa pa a „ Hquorllm que scri} ,tor«m e ccl. Gr. 

physic, mathematics, and astronomy. 1 lie school ol T 4 ., ro 4 r) ^ \ t* 


Gall and, Andrea, or Gallanditis, Andreas, an 
Italian priest and abbot of the Oratorian congregation, 
was born at Venice Dec. G, 1709, and died in the same 
city Jan. 12, 1779. He rendered great service to lit- 
erature by bis edition of the fathers, entitled Bibliothe- 


St. Gall, too, was one of the most eminent for the cul- 


! ct Lat. (Ycnet. 1765-1781, 14 vols. fob). It comprises 


. . . . . . , rcic , , . in all 380 waiters, and is considered to be one of the 

t! vat ion of music, and its MSS., preserved in its libia- mQgt accuratc and useful of all the libraries of the fa . 

ry, have been extensively made use of by the restorers left Mgs _ 'fhesnvmx Antipritati* Ecele- 

t ecclesiastical music. A town of consider.*!- . — - __ j 


of ancient 

blc importance grew up around the monastery, and 
w r as called by the same, name; and as the wealth and , 
influence which attached to the dignity of the abbot , 


siasticcr (13 vols. fol.). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, 
xix, 291. 

Gallas (“invaders”), a race inhabiting the south 


began to make it ail object of ambition to rich and and east of Abyssinia. “ The general name by w hich 
powerful families, we find the succession of abbots, in the tribes designate themselves is Oroma ( orma , men), 
the 13th and 14th centuries, sadly degenerated from Although generally belonging to the negro race, they 
their pious and learned predecessors in the office. A are not purely negroes, but form with the bulahs, 
stringent reform was enforced about the dime of the Mandingoes, and Nubas, as it were, the transition to 
Council of Constance ; but the burghers of St. Gall the Shemitic variety, and seem to belong to that great 
had grown dissatisfied under this rule, and on the out- I family inhabiting the east of Africa, from the frontiers 


GALLAUDET 


723 


GALLERY 


of the Cape land to Abyssinia, and usually denomi- 
nated the Kafirs. They arc a vigorous, well-formed 
people, of a dark-brown color, with hair frizzled, but 
not quite woolly, round faces, and small, sharp eyes, 
and are distinguished not less by their energy and 
warlike spirit than by their mental capacities. They 
first appear in history in the 16th century as a bar- 
barous people, extending their conquests from the in- 
terior of Africa, laying waste, by constant incursions, 
the countries of Eastern Africa to the mountains of 
Abyssinia, gradually subduing or expelling the orig- 
inal inhabitants (hence their name), occupying great 
part of Abyssinia, and advancing as far as the Red 
Sea and the Gulf of Aden. It is only of late years 
that their power in Abyssinia, and their incursions into 
that country, have been partially checked, chiefly by 
the vigorous government of the king of Shoa, who has 
subdued some of the Gullas tribes, and induced them 
to profess such Christianity as exists in Abj r ssinia. 
They still, however, occupy many districts of Abys- 
sinia, and extend their power to an indefinite extent 
over the countries situated south and south-west of it. 
Politically, the Gallas do not form a single nation, but 
are divided into numerous tribes, forming separate 
kingdoms and states, which are frequently at war 
with each other. Most of the Gallas follow pastoral 
avocations. Some, however, through intercourse with 
the semi-Christian, semi-civilized Abyssinians, have 
become tillers of the soil. The wandering Gallas are 
mainly engaged in hunting and the slave-trade. The 
larger number of the Gallas are still heathens, though 
Mohammedanism has lately made great progress among 
them. Their religion bears a resemblance to that of 
the Kafirs” (Chambers, s. v.). Compare Jomard, Ao- 
tices sur les Gallas (Paris, 1839) ; Beke, On the Origin 
of the Gallas (London, 1848); Plowden, Abyssinia and 
the Gallas Country (London, 186s). Behm ( Gcograph .- 
Jahrbuch , vol. i, Gotha, 1864) assigns to the Gallas a 
territory of about 280,000 sq. miles and 7,000,000 peo- 
ple. The Roman Catholic Church lias a mission 
among the Gallas, which in 1841 was erected into a 
vicariate apostolic. The letters of the vicar apostolic, 
Massaja, in the Ann ales de la Propigat.de Foi , are 
among the chief sources of our information on the 
Gallas. Massaja was the founder of the mission, and 
was in 18G9 still at its head. (A. J. S.) 

Gallaudet, Thomas Hopkins, LL.D., an emi- 
nent Congregational minister and philanthropist, was 
born Dee. 10, 1787, in Philadelphia. lie graduated at 
Yale College in 1805, and was chosen tutor in 1808, 
which office he held two years, after which he was en- 
gaged in mercantile business until 1811, when lie en- 
tered the theological seminary. In 1814 he received 
his license, and became pastor at Portsmouth. Here 
he became interested in a little deaf and dumb girl, 
Alice Cogswell, and instructed her with success. Her 
father, Dr. Cogswell, became the founder of an associ- 
ation for the aid of deaf mutes; and funds being pro- 
vided, Mr. Gallaudet resigned his ministry, and went 
to Europe in 1815 to study the existing deaf and dumb 
institutions. At the London Deaf and Dumb Asy- 
lum lie was refused admission except as junior assist- 
ant. He then went to Edinburgh, but there the teach- 
er had learnt his system from the Messrs. Braidwood, 
and had been compelled to sign an engagement not to 
impart the method to any other person intending to 
become a teacher. He then betook himself to Paris, 
and was warmly received by the abbe Sieard. Every- 
thing was laid freely open to him. He was able to 
return to America before the close of 1816, and Sieard 
allowed Laurent le Clere, a deaf-mute, who was one 
of the best teachers of the institution, to accompany 
him to America. During his absence in Europe the 
society had been incorporated ; Mr. Gallaudet was now 
appointed its principal, Le Clere being his head assist- 
ant, and on the 15th of April, 1817, The American As?j- 
lumfor the Deaf and Dumb , at Hartford, Conn., was 


formally opened. Mr. Gallaudet remained head of 
the asylum until 1830, when he resigned from failing 
health. The system which he established was found- 
ed on that of Sieard, with modifications. “ It is known 
as the American system. The main principle with 
Mr. Gallaudet was to call out the intelligence of the 
I pupil as much as possible, by exercising him in de- 
I scribing things for himself, and to discourage the mere 
; learning by rote ; and the result was to stimulate the 
mind of the teacher, as well as of the pupil, in no ordi- 
j nary degree. Mr. Gallaudet’s exeytions were by no 
means confined to the deaf and dumb asylum. He 
took an ardent and active interest in the improvement 
and extension of common schools, and in the raising 
up of a superior body of teachers, and wrote several 
pamphlets on the subject, lie also zealously advoca- 
ted the adoption of means of imparting moral and re- 
ligious training to prisoners, and was an earnest pro- 
moter of the movement for improving the manage- 
ment of the insane. So strongly did he feel on this 
matter, that, though in but feeble health, he accepted 
in 1838 the office of chaplain of the state Retreat for 
the Insane at Hartford, where, it is stated, ‘ the expe- 
rience of each successive year furnished accumulating 
evidence of the usefulness of his labors, and the effica- 
cy of kind moral treatment and a wise religious influ- 
ence in the melioration and care of the insane.’ ” lie 
died Sept. 10, 1851. Besides a number of tracts and 
essays on the education of the deaf and dumb, and on 
the treatment of the insane, he published Discourses on 
various Points of Christian Faith and Practice (Lond. 
1818, Svo) : — Remarks on Teachers' Seminaries (1826) : 
— The Child's Booh on the Soul (1830, often reprinted, 
and translated into most European languages): — Scrip- 
ture Biography (5 vols. 1838—1844). See Humphrey, 
Life and Labors of Gallaudet (N. Y. 1857, 12mo); Eng- 
lish Cyclopaedia ; Sprague, Annals, ii, 609. 

Gallery, an architectural term describing the por- 
ticoes or verandas which are not uncommon in East- 
ern houses. See House. It is doubtful, however, 
whether two of the three Hebrew words so translated 
have an} T reference to such an object. See ARCHI- 
TECTURE. 

1. p^TiX, attik' (Ezck. xli, 15 [where the text has 
p^r.X, attuk'^, 16; Sept. «7rd/\ot7ror ; xlii, 3, 5, Sept. 
~enivTv\ov ; according to Gesenius, from pP2, to cut 
of; according to Fiirst, from an obsolete pri<, to set 
of), by some thought to mean (as in xlii, G) pillars or 
columns (so Yillalpandus, Coceeius) ; by others a dec- 
rement or terrace (so Gesenius, Burst, Llavernick, Hit- 
zig), as the context requires (Botteher, Proben, p. 350). 
See Temple. The ancient interpreters are wholly at 
fault; t he Sept, renders ambiguously, the Talmud 
“corners,” the Syr. “balustrade,” and the Jewish in- 
terpreters confess their ignorance (Kimchi, Jarchi). 

2. LTrr, rachit' (Cant, i, 17 ; either, with Fiirst, 
from an obsolete root I3n“t, to trim, or, with Gesenius, 
for ;rrn, rahit as in the margin), prob. yw«e/-work 
or fretted ceiling (so Sept, ^arvutpara, Yulg. laquea- 
ria, A. V. “rafters,” marg. “gallery”). See Ceiling. 
In consequence of the var. read, in the Masoretie text 
(q. d. ambulatory or place of exercise), this term has 
been confounded with 

3. -pip, ret hat (from -pp, to fow down ; spoken of 
watering-^row^s, Gen. xxx, 38, 41 ; Exod. ii, 16) t 
curled locks or ringlets of a maiden (Cant, vii, 6; Sept. 
?rapafy) 0 /o/,Viilg. canalls). Sec Hair. 

Gallery, originally a banqueting hall. The word 
is now applied, in ecclesiastical architecture, to any 
floor elevated above the floor of a main audience room 
of a church, and built to contain hearers. Galleries 
of this kind date from the time of the Reformation, 
though somewhat similar galleries existed in the By- 
zantine churches. Narrow covered passage-ways, 


GALLEY 


724 


GALLICAN CHURCH 


within or without a church, especially in Romanesque I 
churches, arc also termed galleries. (G. F. C.) 

Galley is the rendering in the A. V. in one passage 
(Isa. xxxiii, 21) of oni' . a ship or feet , elsewhere 
rendered “navy.” Sec Ship. 



Ancient Assyrian Galley. 

Gallican Church, a name often given to the Ro- 
man Catholic Church of France. The peculiar spirit 
of that Church, especially with regard to its relations 
to Rome, is called Gallican ism. The term is espe- 
cially used with reference to the principles of the 
French Church, in opposit ion to Ultramontan ism (ihe 
extreme papal view of Church polity), as embodied 
in the four articles of 1GS2 (see below). But it is 
historically certain that from a very early period the 
national Church of France had a character and spirit 
of freedom peculiar to itself, and that the roots of the 
so-called modern Gallicanism are to be traced far back 
into antiquity (see Bossuet’s sermon at the opening of 
the Assembly of 1C82, and his Defensio Declaration^ 
and our article Fkaxce). 

The Frankish Church, in the time of Charlemagne, 
assumed a form and gave evidence of a spirit marked 
by the national temper, and obvioush r different from 
the Italian ideal of the Church as organized under the 
pope. In almost every century thereafter the mon- 
archs and bishops of France resisted what they held to 
be unauthorized claims on the part of Rome. Never- 
theless. the Gallican spirit often yielded, and not unfre- 
quent lv the French bishops were themselves, in part 
at least, ultramontane. The French Parliaments were 
generally on the side, naturally, of the Gallican spirit, 
ilincmar, bishop of liheiins (f 88*2), manfully stood by 
bis king, Charles the Bald, when pope Adrian II at- 
tempted to drive him from the throne. Charles him- 
self, in an epistle to Adrian, “argues respecting the 
distinction between tlie temporal and the spiritual pow- 
er, and also alleges the peculiar supremacy of the kings 
of France. To prove these and similar points, he re- 
fers not only to the archives of the Roman Church, but 
to the writings of St. Gelasius, St. Leo, St. Gregory, 
and even St. Augustine himself. (See I list. Lift /retire 
de la Franco , Floury, 1, lii, s. 8, 22.) Hincniar wrote 
many of that king’s letters, and may probably have 
been the author of this” (AVaddington. History of the 
Church , chap. xiv). But no formal attempt to fix the 
position of the Church in France on a basis of inde- 
pendence was made by any of the liionarchs of the 
country before Louis IX (St. Louis, f 1270). His 
“ Pragmatic Sanction” (A. I). 12G8) was directed chiefly 
against the pecuniary claims and extortions of Rome. 
It is comprised in six articles: (1.) The churches, the 
prelates, the patrons, and the ordinary collators of ben- 
efices, shall enjoy their rights to their full extent, and 
each shall be sustained in his jurisdiction. (2.) The 
cathedral and other churches shall possess the liberties 
of elections, which shall be carried into complete ef- 
fect. (3.) "NVe will that simony, the pest of the Church, 
be wholly banished from our kingdom. (4.) Promo- 
tions, collations, provisions and dispositions of prela- 


tures, dignities, and other ecclesiastical benefices and 
offices, whatsoever they may be, shall be made accord- 
ing to the institutions of common law, of the councils, 
and of our ancient fathers. (5.) "NVe renew and ap- 
prove of the liberties, franchises, prerogatives, and 
privileges granted bv the kings our predecessors, and 
by ourselves, to churches, monasteries, and other places 
of piety, as well as to ecclesiastical persons. (0.) AA r e 
prohibit any one from in any manner levying and 
collecting the pecuniary exactions and heavy charges 
which the court of Rome has imposed, or may hereaf- 
ter impose, upon the Church of our kingdom, and by 
which it has been miserably impoverished — unless it 
be for a reasonable and very urgent cause, or by inev- 
itable necessity, and with the free and express consent 
of the king and of the Church. See. Ordonnances des 
Roys de France de la troisihie race recuillies par M. 
de Lauriere (Paris, 1723, folio), i, 97. In the Latin 
text, “the chief points are: statnimus et ordina- 
mus primo ut ecclesinrum regni nostri pradati, pa- 
troni, et beneficiorum collatores ordinarii jus suum 
plenarium habeant, et unictiique sua jurisdictio debite 
servetur. II. Item ecclesije cathedrales et alias regni 
I nostri liberas electiones et eamm effectum integraliter 
habeant. — V. Item exactiones et on era gravissima pe- 
cuniarum per Curiam Romanam ecclesise regni nostri 
impositas vel imposita, quibus regnum nostrum miser- 
abilitcr depauperatum extitit, sive etiam imponendas 
vel imponenda, levari aut colligi nnllatenus volumus, 
nisi duntaxat pro rationabili, pia et urgentissima causa, 
et inevitabili necessitate, ac de spontaneo et expresso 
consensu nostro et ipsius ccclesine regni nostri. The 
conclusion: JIarum tenore universis justitiariis, offi- 
ciariis et subditis nostris — mandamus, quatenus om- 
uia et singula predict a diligenter et attente servent — 
atque servari — inviolabiliter faeiant: nec aliquid in 
contrarium quovis modo faciant vel attentent, seu fieri 
vel attentari permittant: transgressores aut contra fa- 
cientes — tali poena plectendo, quod caeteris deinceps 
. cetlat in exemplinn. The genuineness of this docu- 
ment, which is questioned chiefly by P. Daniel, is 
shown by E. Richer, Ilist. eoncil. general, lib. iii, p. 
189: Libertis de I'lgHse Gallicane, edit. ann. 1771, t. iii, 
]). G33, G67 ; Telly, Ilist. do France , t. iii, p. 239” (Giese- 
ler, Church History, per. iii. § G2). 

The “liberties” of the Gallican Church, according 
to Bossuet, were substantially set forth in these ordi- 
nances. The Gallican spirit was also strongly shown 
in the disputes between Philip le Bel and Boniface 
Till towards the end of the 13th century, which dis- 
. putes culminated in the bull Unam Sanctam, and in the 
. abduction and death of the pope, A.D. 1303. See Bon- 
iface Till. The questions involved in these dis- 
putes were vital ones : the authority of the pope in 
temporals, the royal prerogative, and the power of the 
episcopacy as related to the supremacy of the pope. 
The Gallican writers vindicated the rights of the 
Church and the supremacy of councils over the pope 
with brilliant talents and solid learning. The Roman 
writers nevertheless maintained the papal claims un- 
waveringly, but with little success, in France. In 
1455 the bishop of Nantes undertook to appeal from a 
i royal ordinance to the pope, but the Parliament of 
Paris decided that lie had violated the privileges of 
the French Church, as well as the fundamental laws 
of the kingdom. The Pragmatic Sanction of Bour- 
ges, called the “ great bulwark of the Gallican Church 
1 against Rome,” was adopted at the Synod of Bour- 
ges in 1438, and confirmed by the Parliament July 
13, 1439. It involved two great principles : 1. That 
the pope has no authority in the kingdom of France 
over anything concerning temporals. 2. That, though 
the pope is acknowledged ns sovereign lord in spir- 
ituals, his power even in these is restricted ami con- 
trolled by the canons and regulations of the ancient 
councils of the Church received in the kingdom. 
| (For details, sec Bourges, Pragmatic Sanction* 


GALLICAN CHURCH 


725 


GALLICAN CHURCH 


of.) Louis XI himself strongly repressed all ultra- 1 
montane reaction against the decisions of the French 
assemblies, or against the immunities of the nation- 
al church. The ultramontanists obtained a tempora- 
ry success in the revocation of the Pragmatic Sanc- 
tion of Bourges in 1512 by the Council of Lateran, 
with the renunciation of it by Francis I (1516), with 
the understanding that his concordat with Leo X se- 
cured to him its substantial benefits. This act was 
instigated by certain private aims of the king’s, and 
by the hope of his chancellor, Duprat, obtaining the 
dignity of cardinal. But this revocation gave rise to 
a long resistance by the Parliament and the Sorbonne, 
and to great anger and even turbulence of spirit among 
the French people. The effects of the revocation were 
practically insignificant, and Gallicanism only showed 
itself the more energetic and active afterwards. The 
Pragmatic Sanction of Bourges was, it is true, abroga- 
ted, but the fundamental principles established at the 
councils of Pisa, Constance, and Basle, which inspired 
that sanction, remained intact as a guide for the opin- 
ions of the nation and of the clergy, while the antipa- 
thy of the Parliaments against ultramontanism be- 
came still more deeply rooted. The decrees of the 
Council of Trent (1545-1663) were, indeed, intended to 
supplant and supersede those of the earlier councils, 
but from among them France admitted only such as 
agreed with her own policy, with the privileges of the 
king, and with the customs and usages of her Church. 
Gallicanism was greatly advanced, in fact, by the is- 
sues of the Council of Trent, and by the discussions to 
which they gave rise. The numerous writings of Pi- 
thou (q. v. ; f 1596) on the canon law gave true scien- 
tific and ecclesiastical expression to the tenets of Gal- 
licanism. What Pithou advances in behalf of the 
Gallican Church in his Corpus Juris Canonici, in his 
Codex Canonum, and in his Gall lex Ecclesle in sekis- 
mate status , were by him collected in eighty-three ar- 
ticles, in 1594, in the Liberies de Veglise gallicane (1639, 

2 vols. fol.), by the aid of which it became easy both for 
the laity and the clergy to see how far the questions 
involved were questions of order and organization, and 
how little they applied to religion or dogmas. Pithou 
himself condensed the eighty-three articles into two: 
(1.) That the pope has no right of interference witli the 
king’s prerogative in temporals; (2.) That he cannot 
enforce a decision in spirituals in contradiction with 
those of the councils received in the kingdom. Ultra- 
montanism, however, continued to assert its claims 
with the usual persistence of Rome. Cardinal Duper- 
ron, and the two succeeding cardinals and prime min- 
isters of Louis XIII and Louis XIV, Richelieu and 
Mazarin, maintained the Concordat. But, in spite of 
the Concordat, the Sorbonne presented the six celebra- 
ted DecLtraliones following to the king, May 8, 1663: 
1. The pope has no authority over the king’s temporal 
power. 2. In temporals the king has no superior but 
God. 3. The subjects of the king cannot be released 
from their fealty and obedience under any pretexts 
whatsoever. 4. It is inconsistent with the king’s pre- 
rogative, and with the freedom of the Gallican Church, 
that the pope should depose bishops contrary to the 
decrees of councils. 5. It is not the doctrine of the 
Church that the pope is superior to general councils. 
6. It is not matter of dogma that the pope is infallible, 
apart from the concurrence of the Church. 

As Pithou was the legal pillar of Gallicanism, so 
Bossuet became its ecclesiastical champion. Under 
his guidance, the Assemble du elerge of 1682 asserted 
the Gallican liberties, in the celebrated Declaration du 
elerge de France , -which was upheld by the monarch 
and by all the state authorities. It runs as follows: 
“ I. St. Peter and his successors, vicars of Jesus Christ, 
and the whole Church itself, have received power from 
God only over things spiritual, and which concern sal- 
vation, and not over things temporal and civil ; Jesus 
Christ teaching us himself that his kingdom is not of 


this world ; and in another place, that we must render 
to Cresar the things of Cflesar, and to God the things 
of God; and thus that precept of St. Paul can in noth- 
ing be altered or overthrown. Let every person he 
subject to the higher powers, for there is no power but 
comes from God, and it is he who ordains those that 
are on the earth. He, then, who opposes himself to 
the powers, resists the order of God. We, in conse- 
quence, declare that kings and sovereigns are not sub- 
ject to any ecclesiastical power by the order of God in 
temporal matters ; that they cannot he deposed, di- 
rectly or indirectly, by the authority of the keys of the 
Church; that their subjects cannot he dispensed from 
the submission and obedience which they owe them, 
and absolved from the oath of fidelity ; and that this 
doctrine, necessary for the public peace, and not less 
advantageous to the Church than the state, ought to 
be inviolably followed, as conformable to the word of 
God, the tradition of the holy fathers, and the exam- 
ples of the saints. II. The plenitude of power -which 
the holy apostolic see and the successors of St. Peter, 
vicars of Jesus Christ, have over spiritual is such, that 
nevertheless the decrees of the holy General Council 
of Constance, contained in the fourth and fifth sessions, 
approved by the holy apostolic see, confirmed by the 
practice of all the Church and the Roman pontiffs, 
and religiously observed at all times by the Gallican 
Church, remain in all their force and virtue; and that 
the Church of France does not approve the opinion of 
those who attack these decrees, or who enfeeble them 
by saving that their authority is not well established, 
that they are not approved, or that they are in force 
only in time of schism. 111. That thus the use of the 
apostolic power must be regulated in following the 
canons made by the Spirit of God, and consecrated by 
the general respect of all the world ; that the rules, 
the manners, and the constitutions received in the 
kingdom and in the Gallican Church ought to be main- 
tained, and the usages of our fathers remain unassaila- 
ble ; and that the greatness of the holy apostolic see 
itself requires that the laws and customs established 
with the consent of that respectable see and the 
churches remain invariable. IV. Although the pope 
has the chief post in the questions of faith, and his de- 
crees regard all the churches, and each church in par- 
ticular, yet his judgment is still not unalterable, until 
the consent of the Church intervene. We have re- 
solved to send to all the churches of France, and to 
the bishops who preside in them by the authority of 
the Holy Ghost, these maxims which we have received 
from our fathers, in order that we may all say the 
same thing, and that we may all be in the same mind, 
and that we may all follow the same doctrine.” 

The Declaration du elerge de France was sent to the 
pope, with an address from Bossuet. Alexander VIII 
annulled the declaration, but the clergy maintained 
their ground, although Louis XIV himself condescend- 
ed to a step which was by some considered as a retrac- 
tion. In consequence of this difficulty with Rome, the 
French Church found itself in 1691 with thirty-five 
bishoprics vacant ; the king allowed the twelve signers 
of the declaration, whom he had nominated as bishops, 

; but whom the pope had for ten years refused to recog- 
nise as such, to retract all which had displeased the 
pontiff. The king himself stated that he had given 
orders so that his edict of March 22, 1G82, which had 
been promulgated in view of the then existing circum- 
stances, should no longer have effect. But that lie 
did not abandon the Gallican maxims is proved in his 
letter of July 7, 1713, directed to cardinal La Tremou- 
ille, and addressed to the See of Rome, wherein he en- 
forced the recognition, as bishop of Beauvais, of the 
abbot of St. Aignan, who had defended the four prop- 
ositions in a thesis in 1705. The position ot the ques- 
I tion was still more clearly defined hv the decision of 
the Cornell de Regence of 1718, that the bishops could 
i dispense with the papal inauguration bull, as, “ the Sor- 


GALLICAN CONFESSION 


7-6 


GALLDI 


bonne having so decided, the national churches could 
again avail themselves of the right suspended by the 
Concordat. ” 

Gallicanism fell into disgrace through the political 
events of 1700 to 1800, and particularly through the 
Constitution civile du clerge, which was by many consid- 
ered as a revolutionary triumph of Gallicanism over 
Fltraiuoutanism, and which resulted in the synods of 
1703 and 1707 submitting themselves to the papal au- 
thority. Stanch Gallicans, on the other hand, found 
that the concordat of 1801 did not do justice to Galli- 
canism, and they regretted still more the forcible re- 
jection of the Concordat of 1813, which would have 
somewhat restored their position. This led to a tierce 
internal conflict during the following years, in which 
Joseph de Maistre, Louis de Bonald, and Francois de 
Lamennais stand forth as the most prominent charac- 
ters. Yet the four “ principles’’ of 1082 have kept 
their authority under all the forms of government, re- 
public, empire, and restored monarchy; they are re- 
ceived by the new university as they were by the 
old, and, whenever occasion demands it, are immedi- 
ately brought forth. See France. They w'ere rec- 
ognised as law by the imperial ordinance of Feb. 25, 
1810, and there is no likelihood of their being ever 
abrogated. In the present altered state of things 
there is no occasion for upholding or enforcing them, 
but should at any day a reactionary tendency be man- 
ifested, the state councils would again bring the Gal- 
lican doctrine forward as emphatically as did the de- 
cree of 17GG ( arret du conseil d'etat du 24 Mai), w-hicli 
stated that the rights and privileges enjoyed by the 
ecclesiastical body in the kingdom u sont des' conces- 
sions des souverains dont V Eg'ise ne pent fa ire usage 
sins leur autorite," which is also stated in the Constitu- 
tion civile du clerge (1790). 

The principles of 1G82 are recognised as fundament- 
al in the present French empire, but the majority of 
the French bishops are at present ultramontane. Po- 
litical ultramontanism, however, is extinct, in spite of 
the reassertion of its antiquated formulas by papal 
writers. The old system of taxation at the will of the 
court of Rome cannot be revived. The hierarchy is 
indestructible; for, so long as papacy retains its char- 
acter, and so long as the French Church remains Ro- 
man Catholic, so long must the supremacy of the pa- 
pal chair be upheld ; and the favorite expression 
“National Church” is only correct in a restricted 
sense, since, not being independent, it cannot really 
be altogether national. Only in moments of high ex- 
citement did Gallicanism entertain the idea of having 
a separate, particular, independent patriarch. As to 
liturgical and even dogmatical ultramontanism, it is 
complained of in periodicals and pamphlets, and even 
by bishops, and the old Gallicanism is appealed to 
against it, but with the less success, as there is a tend- 
ency to agree with Rome in dogmas and liturgies, for 
fear of her still exorbitant power, and also with the gen- 
eral aim of unity, so dear to the Roman Catholic mind. 
That the French nation, its episcopate, or its clergy 
will ever become Italianized, is neither to be hoped by 
Rome nor feared by France. Bossuet’s statement to 
the cardinal d'Estrees is as correct now as it was when 
first written by him: “Trois points peuvent blesscr 
les Romains : Findependance de la temporalite des 
rois; la juridiction episcopale immediatement de Je- 
sus-Christ, et l’autorite des coneiles. Yous savez bien 
que sur ces trois choses on ne biaise point en France.” 
This is the true Gallican doctrine; other issues have 
arisen only as the effects of the momentary excitement 
of conflict. 

As for the ruling powers of the Church of Rome at 
present, they hold Gallicanism to be simply the de- 
cayed, but not defunct view of a sect within the 
Church. For the revival of Gallican principles in 
Germany, see Hontiieim. A good exponent of opin- 
ion is given by the fact that in Wctzer and YTelte’s 


Kirchen-Lexikon , the best Roman Catholic Cyclopaedia 
ever issued, to which the best and most learned Ger- 
man Roman Catholic theologians are contributors, 
Gallicanism is throughout classed with Jansenism as 
a pernicious mode of ecclesiastical thought. The re- 
ception of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception by 
the Church of France was a violation of the old Galli- 
can spirit. 

Literature.— Sec, besides the voluminous writings 
of Ritbou and Bossuot on this subject, Maimbourg, 
Truite historique de Veglise d. Home (Paris, 1G8G, 4to); 
Ilist.du droit public franq. eccles. (bond. 1737); J. de 
Maistre, De Vegl. gallic. (1 vol. Svo) ; Du Pape (2 vols. 
Svo): Andre Dupin, Defence de la loi organiqne d. con- 
cordat; Les libtrt. de l / glise Gall. (Paris, 1824, 12mo); 
Bordas-Dumoulin, Les pouvoirs constitutes de Veglise 
(Paris, 1855, Svo); 1 r. Huet, Le Gallic ., son passe, s. 
situation presente dons Vordre polit. et relig. (Paris, 
1855); Fleury, Discours sur les Merits d.l'igl. gallic. ; 
Gregoire, Essai hist, sur les libertes d. Vegl. gallic, (two 
editions); Frayssinous, Les vrais principes de Veglise 
gallic, (three editions); Clauscl dc Mentals (a French 
bishop of decided Gallican views), Ejfds probables d. 
disputes sur les art. Gall. (1858) ; Portrait f dele de Vegl. 
g dlic. (1854) ; Mi moire (anonyme) sur la situation pri- 
senie d. Veglise gallic., d ses maxim es vengees centre les 
attaques de Monsieur le Comte de Montalemlert ; Herzog, 
Peal-Encyklop. iv, G47 sq. (from which much of this 
article is translated); Gucttec, JJistoire de Viglise de 
France (12 vols. Svo); Guettee’s periodical journal 
L' Gbserraieur Cciiholique ; Dupin, Manvel du droit pub- 
lic ccclesiastique franca is (Paris, 1815); Phillips, Kir- 
chenrecht , iii, 339-8G5; Hare, Contest with Pome (Lon- 
don, 1852), 209 sq. ; Westminster Review, xii, 213 ; North 
British Pevieu', xiii, 241 ; Ranke, History of the Popes 
(passim) ; Eiit. and For. Erang. Review, October, 18GG, 
art. iii; Gosselin, Power of the Pipes (London, 1852, 
2 vols. 8vo). See TorE, Temporal rower of. 

Gallican Confession (Confess™ Gallieana'). The 
Confession of Faith of the Gallican Churches was pro- 
posed and accepted at the first synod held by the Re- 
formed at Paris in 1559. In 15G0 it was presented to 
Francis IT, and in 15G1 it was presented to Charles 
IX, king of France, by Theodore Beza. This confes- 
sion lias been repeatedly printed, and in various forms, 
both separately and together, with Bibles, Psalters, 
Catechisms, and other ecclesiastical publications of the 
Reformed French Church. It is thoroughly Calvinistic 
in doctrine, and is supposed by many to have been writ- 
ten bv Calvin himself, but there is no sufficient ground 
for the opinion (Niemever, Prof. xlix). It is given 
in Latin bv Niemever, Collectio Confessionum (Lips. 
1840, 311 sq.). 

Gallican Liturgy. See Liturgy. 

Gallienus, Plt.lius Licinius, a Roman emperor, 
became sole sovereign A.D. 2G0, and w as assassinated 
at Milan in 2G8. Ilis reign is memorable in Church 
History, as he gave peace to the Christians hv an edict 
in which he recognised the Church as a civil corpoi'a- 
tion. — Eusebius, Hist. Eccl. vii, 13 ; IIase,C/?. Hist. § 48. 

Gal'lim (Ileb. Galllm' , heaps, or perhaps 

fountains'), a place which is twice mentioned in the Bi- 
ble: (1.) As the native place of the man to whom Mi- 
cbal, David’s wife, was given — “ Phalti, the son of La- 
ish, who was from Gallim” (-* 1 S5*C, 1 Sam. xxv, 44; 
Sept. Y 5 opfia; Josephus r*GXd, Ant. vi, 13, 8); but 
there is no clew' to the situation of the place. In 2 
Sam. iii, 15, 1G, where Michal returns to David at He- 
bron, her husband is represented as following her as 
far as Bahurim, i. o. on the road between the Mount 
of Olives and Jericho (comp. 2 Sam. xvi, 1). But even 
this does not necessarily point to the direction of Gal- 
lim, because Phalti may have been at the time with 
lshbosheth at Mahanaim, the road from which would 
naturally lead past Bahurim. (2.) The name occurs 


GALLIO 


727 


GALLUS 


again in the catalogue of places terrified at the ap- 
proach of Sennacherib (Isa. x, 30; Sept. rciXktift): 
“Lift up thy voice, 0 daughter (i. e. inhabitant) of 
Gallim! attend, O Laish ! poor Anathoth !” The oth- 
er towns in this passage — Aiath, Michmash, Hamah, 
Gibeah of Saul— are all, like Anathoth, in the tribe of 
Benjamin, a short distance north of Jerusalem. It 
should not be overlooked that in both these passages 
the names Laish and Gallim are mentioned in connec- 
tion. Possibly tli 3 Ben-Laish in the former implies 
that Phalti was a native of Laish, that being depend- 
ent on Gallim. Its sits was unknown to Eusebius 
and Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. VoWeI, Gallim), although 
from hearsay (Aiymu) they place a village of a simi- 
lar name ([\i\Aata) near Accaron (Ekron). Schwarz 
(Palest. p. 131) reports a Beit-Bjallin between Uanileh 
and Joppa, but by other explorers the name is given 
as Beit-Bejan. Porter suggests the little village of 
Jiimseh as a suitable locality (// dndb.for Syria, p. 214) ; 
but there are no ruins there, as at Khirbet el-Haiyeli 
(Uuins of the Serpents), on a low tell, a little farther 
N.E., containing the remains of an ordinary village, 
with a cistern in the middle (Robinson, Later Research- 
es, p. 238). 

Among the names of towns added by the Sept, to 
those of Judah in Josli. xv, 50, Gallim ( YaWip v. r. 
raXtfi) occurs between Karem and Thether. In Isa. 
xv, 8, the Vulgate h is Gallim for Eylaim , among the 
towns of Moab. — Smith, s. v. 

Gal'lio (Graieized VaWlwv'), a son of the rhetori- 
cian M. Annaeus Seneca, and elder brother of Seneca 
.the philosopher. II is name was originally J /. Ann. 
Xovatus, but changed to Junius Ann.eus (or Annie- 
nus) Gallio, in consequence of his adoption by L. 
Junius Gallio the rhetorician (Pliny, Hist. Xat. xxxi, 
33; Tacitus, Annul, xvi, 17 ; Quintil. Inst. Orat. iii, 1, 
21; ix, 2, 91). Seneca dedicated to him his treatise 
Be Vita Beat a, and in the preface to the fourth hook 
of his Xaturales Qurestiones describes him as a man uni- 
versally beloved (comp. Stat. Silv. ii, 7, 32) ; and who, 
while exempt from all other viees, especially abhorred 
flattery. Dion Cassius (lx, 35) mentions a witty but 
bitter joke which he made in reference to the persons 
put to death by Claudius. According to Eusebius, he 
committed suicide before the death of Seneca ( Thesau- 
rus Temporum. , p.lGl, Amstel. 1G58), but Tacitus speaks 
of him as alive after that event (Annul, xv, 73), and 
I)ion Cassius states that he was put to death by order 
of Nero (see Antonii Bibl. Hispan. vet. i, 121 sq.). One 
writer (Gelpe, D familiar it. Pauli c. Senec. Lips. 1813, 
p. 18) thinks that Seneca was converted through the 
instrument ility of Paul. He was Proconsul (dvdv- 
7T artuoVTOi;, Tex. ree. ; dv'AuTcdrov ovtqq, Tischen- 
dorf) of Achaia (Acts xviii, 12) under the emperor 
Claudius, when Paul first visited Corinth, and nobly 
refused to abet the persecution raised by the Jews 
against the apostle (see Dannhauer, Be Gallionismo , 
Argent. 1GG4 ; also in his Bisp. theol. p. 175 sq.), A.D. 
49. See Aciiaia. Dr. Lardner has noticed the strict 
accuracy of Luke in giving him this designation, which 
is obscured in the Auth.Vers. by the use of the term 
deputy (Credibility, pt. i, bk. i, eh. i ; 1 Porto, i, 34). See 
Proconsul, lie is said to have resigned the govern- 
ment of Achaia on account of the climate not agreeing 
with his health (see Seneca, Ep. 104). — Kitto, s. v. 
See Paul. 

Gallitzine or Galitzin, Dmitri Augustin, 
son of the Russian prineess Amalie of Gallitzine, was 
born at the Hague Dec. 22, 1770. His mother was an 
enthusiastic Roman Catholie eon vert, and under her 
influence he joined the Roman Church at seventeen. 
He entered the Austrian army, and served with it in 
the Netherlands in 1792. lie set out, after leaving 
the army, for a journey in America, and on the voyage 
was led by the counsels of a missionary named Brosius 
to turn his mind to the priesthood, He was ordained 


1 

! March 18, 1795, and devoted his life to missionary la* 
bors. In 1799 he selected a spot among the Alleghan- 
' ies as the seat of a Roman Catholic town, and founded 
Loretto, now a town of several thousand inhabitants, 
with Roman Catholic schools for boys and girls in the 
neighborhood. As “ Father Smith” he labored exten- 
sively in the wild region of the Alleghanies, and left 
! enduring marks of his energy, faith, and devotion 
throughout that country. He died at Loretto May G. 
1840. He published a B< fence of Catholic Principles 
j (Pittsburg, 1816; new edit. Dublin, 18G7): — Appeal to 
the Protestant Public (Pittsburg, 1818), and other small 
works. 

Gallows Q*^, ets, a tree or wood), a post or gib- 
bet, rendered in Estli. G, 4 “gallows,” but in Gen. xl, 
19, and Dent, xxi, 22, “tree.” Hanging appears to 
have been a punishment practised among the Egyp- 
tians and other ancient nations, as well as among the 
Hebrews. See Punishment. 

Galluppi, Pasquale, an Italian philosopher, was 
born at Tropea, in Calabria Ultra, April 2, 1770, and 
died at Naples in November, 1816. The groundwork 
of his education was laid at Tropea under the instruc- 
tions of J. A. Ruftii, and lie afterwards completed his 
studies at the University of Naples, in which institu- 
tion he subsequently became professor of philosophy. 
In his writings lie combated the philosophical doc- 
trines in vogue in the 18th century, and strove to re- 
establish Italian philosophy on its old bases, recognis- 
ing in man’s nature a double element, the spiritual 
and material, in accord with the philosophy of the 
i Church fathers, llis first work, a pamphlet, dated 
1807, on Analysis and Synthesis, sets forth his philo- 
sophical method. Shortly after it he published his 
Essay on Knowledge, in four books, treating (1) of 
knowledge, (2) of the analysis of the faculties of the 
human mind, (3) of the analysis of ideas, and (4) of 
the legitimate reasons of our judgments and our errors, 
llis Saygio Fdosofco suHi critica della conosrenza (Na- 
ples, 1819, G vols. 8vo) contains an examination of the 
principal doctrines of ideology, Kantianism, and the 
transcendental philosophy, llis Elements of Philoso- 
phy (Elementi di Filosofa, Messina, 1832) treats suc- 
cessively of pure logic, psychology, mixed logic, and 
morals, and has been often reprinted. In 1827 Gal- 
luppi published twelve Letters on Philosophy (Lettere 
f'osofche sulle Vicende della Filosofa, etc.), of which a 
2d edition appeared in 183S, and a French translation 
by Peisse in 1844. His other works are, Filosofa della 
Volonta (Naples, 1835-42, and Milan, 1845): — Consider 
raz'oni filosofehe sulV Idealismo transcendent ale e sul 
Razionalismo assoluto (Naples, 1841; Milan, 184G) : — 
Lezioni di Logica e di Metafstca (Naples, 1842, 5 vols.) ; 
— Storia della Filosof i (Naples, 1842) : — Elementi di 
Teologia Natnrale (Naples, 1844, 4 vols.). — Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate , xix, 334-5. (J. W. M.) 

Gallus, Cestius (Graeeized KsVrcoc TaWof), son 
of C. Cestius Gallus Camerinus, a Roman senator of 
consular rank, was president (“legatus,” Suetonius, 
Vesp. 4) of Syria, A.D. 64, G5, at the time of the final 
Jewish war (Tacitus, Hist, v, 10). Maddened bv tho 
tyranny of Gessius Floras (q. v.), the Jews applied to 
Gallus for protection ; but, though he sent Neapolita- 
ns, one of his officers, to investigate the case, and 
received from him a report favorable to the Jews, lie 
I took no effectual steps either to redress their injuries, 
or to prepare for any outbreak into which their discon- 
tent might drive them. When at last he found it 
necessary to act, he marched from Antioch, and, hav- 
ing taken Ptolemais and Lvdda, advanced on Jerusa- 
lem. There he drove the Jews into the upper part of 
the city and the precincts of the Temple, and he might, 
according to Josephus, have finished the war at once, 
had he not been dissuaded by some of his officers from 
pressing his advantage. Soon after he unaccountably 
. drew off his forces (leaving an interval of which the 


GALLTJS 


728 


GAMALIEL 


Christians availed themselves to escape, according to 
our Saviour’s direction, Luke xxi, 21, 22), and was 
much harassed by the Jews, who took from him a 
quantity of spoil. Kero was at this time in Achaia, 
and Gallus scut messengers to him to give an account 
of his affairs, and to represent them as favorably as 
possible for himself. The emperor, much exasperated, 
commissioned Vespasian to conduct the war; and the 
words of Tacitus (ut sup.) seem to imply that Gallus 
died before the arrival of his successor, his death being 
probably hastened by vexation (Josephus, Lift, 43 ; 
JEar, ii* 14, 3; 1G, 1, 2; 18, 0, 10; 10, 1-0; 20, 1 ; iii, 
1). — Smith, Diet. of Class. Biop. s. v. See Governor. 

Gallus, C. Vibius Trebonianus, Homan em- 
peror (early history unknown), was elected to the 
throne A.D. 251. II is reign was disgraced by con- 
cessions to the Goths, and by a renewal of the perse- 
cution of the Christians. Sec Persecution. He was 
assassinated A.D. 253 or 25b 

Gallus, St. Gal, St. Gilian, or St. Gall, was 
a native of Ireland, born about 5G0, and a disciple of 
Columban (q. v.). lie founded the celebrated abbey 
of St. Gall (q. v.), in Switzerland, of which he was made 
abbot A.D. G14. lie died in G4G, Oct. 1G, which is his 
day in the Roman Calendar. There are no writings 
of his except a sermon in Canisius, Lectiones Antiq. i, 
781, in Galland, Bib. Patr . xii, 721, and in Mignc, Pa- 
trologia Latina , vol. lxxxvii. 

Gallus (or Gallo), Thomas, a French theologi- 
an, who died Dec. 5, 1246, was a member of the regular 
Augustincs, canon of the congregation of St. Victor of 
Paris, and in 1223 was appointed abbot of St. Andrew 
of Verceil, by which latter title he is frequently exclu- 
sively designated. The name Gallus is regarded by 
some as only the Latinized form of his real name, Coq; 
by others as indicating his nationality ; while others 
suppose that he was of Italian origin. Gallus taught 
at St. Victor and other Augustine establishments, and, 
when abbot of Verceil, drew around him the best pro- 
fessors of Northern Italy, achieving for himself and 
his monastery a European reputation in theolog}' and 
ecclesiastical learning. J. Gerson (q. v.), in the pref- 
ace to his Commentary on the Canticles, praises high- 
ly Callus’s Explications du Cantique des Cantiqves 
(published, with commentary, bv Ilalgrin, Paris, 1521, 
and Lyons, 1571, fob). This work was published at 
Rome in 1GGG under the care of J. Magloire, together 
with a decree of the Congregation of the Index forbid- 
ding its publication under the name of Scotus , showing 
that it had been attributed to the celebrated Irish phi- 
losopher. Another work of Gallus’s ( Traduction para - 
phrases des litres snr la hierachie i t l i tluologie mystique 
attribius a Saint Denys V Areopagite) is found in the 
Thcologia Mysiica of J.Eckhius (Ingolstadt, 1519), and 
in the Commentarins in S. Dionysii A rcopagiUe Opera 
of Dionysius the Carthusian (Cologne, 153G). Leon 
Alacci (Jpes urbana>) erroneously attributes to Gallus 
some sermons (Sermones) which belong to John, abbot 
of Viucelles.— Iloefer, Nonr. Biog. Generate , xix, 315 ; 
Oudin, Comment, de Scriptoribus ecclesiasticis , iii, 9. (J. 
AV. M.) 

Gam'ael ( Tapai)\ v. r. rctpa\u)X), given (1 Esdr. 
viii, 29) as the name of one of the chief Levites that 
returned from the captivity, instead of the Daniel (q. 
v.) of the II eb. text (Ezra viii, 2). 

Gamal. See Camel; Gemalli. 

Gamala (rd V 'aftftXa, so called from its situation 
oji a ridge like acmfT.shump, Josephus, J Far, iv, 1, 1), 
a town of traus-Jordanic Palestine, in the district of 
Gamalitis (Josephus, War, iii, 3, 5) or Lower Gaulan- 
itis (ib. iv, 1, 1), first mentioned as a fortress reduced 
by Alexander Jannams (ib. i, 4, 8); it retained' its al- 
legiance to Rome on the lirst outbreak of the final hos- 
tilities (Josephus, Life , 11), but afterwards revolted, 
and was so strongly fortified by Josephus (ib. 37), as 


1 to be only taken after a siege of seven months by a 
desperate assault (War, iv, 1, 2). It was situated on 
the Lake of Tiberias, opposite Tariebeae (ib. iv, 1, 1). 
Schwarz is inclined, from a notice in the Talmud and 
i certain local traditions, to place it between Hurim and 
Kedesh in Naphtali (Palest, p. 190); and Pliny speaks 
! of a Galihean town of the same name (Hist. Nat. v, 
13) ; but this position is not to be thought of (see Re- 
| land, Palcest. p. 784). Lord Lindsay found the site in 
the steep insulated bill east of the lake opposite Tibe- 
rias ( Travels , ii, 92), now called El-Ifussn , between the 
village of File and the shore, “having extensive ruins 
of buildings, walls, and columns on its top” (Burck- 
hardt, Syria , p. 278). This identification is confirmed 
by Thomson, who gives a detailed description of the 
spot (Land and Book , ii, 47 sq.) ; though Ritter thinks, 
on account of Josephus’s mention of a large place back 
of the fortress, we should rather locate it at Khan el- 
A kabah , as described by Scetzen ( Erdkunde , xv, 350). 
See Capuar-gamala. 

Gamaliel (Heb. GamlieV , reward of God ; 

Sept, and N. T. r«pa\i/)\), the name of two men in 
Scripture. 

1. Son of Pedahzur, and chief (^ ; !*3) of the tribe 
of Manasseh at the census at Sinai (Numb, i, 10 ; ii, 
20 ; vii, 54, 59), and at starting on the march through 
the wilderness (x, 23). B.C. 1657. 

2. A Pharisee and celebrated doctor of the law, who 
gave prudent and humane advice in the Sanhedrim 
respecting the treatment of the followers of Jesus of 
Nazareth (Acts v, 34 sq.), A.D. 29. AVe learn from 
Acts xxii, 3 that he was the preceptor of the apostl^ 
Paul. He is general^ identified with the very cele- 
brated Jewish doctor Gamaliel, who is known by the 
title of “the glory of the law,” and was the first to 
whom the title “ Rabban,” “our master,” was given. 
The time agrees, and there is ever} r reason to suppose 
the assumption to be correct. He bears in the Tal- 
mud the surname of “iptn, “the elder” (to distinguish 

| him from a later rabbin of the same name), and is rep- 
resented as the son of Rabbi Simeon, and grandson of 
the famous llillel : he is said to have occupied a seat, 
if not the presidency, in the Sanhedrim during the 
reigns of Tiberius, Caligula, and Claudius, and to have 
died eighteen years after the destruction of Jerusalem 
(see Lightfoot, Centm'ia chorographica Matthro pra > 
missa , ch. xv). But, as this statement would give 
him an extreme old age, it may perhaps refer to the 
later Gamaliel ; and the elder probably died about 
A.D. 50. Ecclesiastical tradition makes him become 
a Christian, and be baptized by Peter and Paul (Phot. 
Cod. 171, p. 199), together with his son Gamaliel, and 
with Nicodemus ; and the Clementine Recognitions (i, 

I G5) state that be was secretly a Christian at this time. 
But these notices are altogether irreconcilable with 
the esteem and respect in which he was held even in 
later times by the Jewish rabbins, by whom his opin- 
ions are frequently quoted as an all-silencing authority 
on points of religious law (see Thilo, Codex. Ajioc. p. 
501 ; Neander, Planting and Training , i, 4G, Bohn). 
Neither does his interference in behalf of the apostles 
at all prove — as some would have it — that he secretly 
approved their doctrines. He was a dispassionate 
judge, and reasoned in that affair with the tact of 
worldly wisdom and experience, urging that religious 
opinions usually gain strength by opposition and per- 
secution (Acts v, 36, 37), while, if not noticed at all, 
they are sure not to leave any lasting impression on 
■ the minds of the people, if devoid of truth (ver. 38) ; 
and that it is vain to contend against them, if true 
(ver. 39). That he was more enlightened and toler- 
ant than his colleagues and contemporaries is evident 
from the very fact that he allowed his zealous pupil 
Saul to turn his mind to Greek literature, which, in a 
great measure, qualified him afterwards to become the 
\ apostle of the Gentiles ; while by the laws of the Pales- 


GAMALIEL 


729 


GAMES 


tinian Jews, after the Maccabscan wars, even the Greek ’ 
language was prohibited to be taught to the Hebrew ' 
youth (Mishna, Sotah , ix, 14). Another proof of the 
hb'h respect in which Gamaliel stood with the Jews long 
after his death is afforded by an anecdote told in the 
Talmud respecting his tomb, to the effect that Onkelos 
(the celebrated Chaldajan translator of the Old Testa- 
ment) spent seventy pounds of incense at his grave in 
honor of his memory ( Yuckasin , 59). These last no- 
tices, however, have been shown to refer to Gamaliel ! 
II, the grandson of the apostle’s teacher (comp. Griitz, 
in FrankeV s Monatschrift , i, 320; Geschichte der Juden J 
[Lpz. 185G], iii, 289; iv, lli, 152; Jost, Gesch. der Ju- 
denthnms [Lpz. 1857], i, 281; and especially Frankel’s ! 
Hodegetien in Mischnam [Lips. 1859], p. 57 sq., where , 
all the fragments about Gamaliel are collected). — Kit- 
to, s. v. See Kitto’s Daily Bible Jllust. in loc. ; Pfaf- 
freuter, Diss. de consil. Gamal. (Jen. 1680); Conybeare 
and Howson, St. Paul , i, 56, 67 ; Graun, Hist. Gamali- 
elis (Viteinb. 1687) ; Baier, De consilio Gamalielis (Jen. 
1630); Bucher, De SsopdxoiQ (Viteb. 1681); Clilade- 
nius, De Sfo/myty (Viteb. 1715) ; Lange, Judicium Ga- 
malielis (Hal. 1715) ; Meulengracht, De religione Gama- 
lielis (Hafn. 1698); Palmer, Paulus u. Gamaliel ( Giess. 
1806). 

Gamaliel bar Simon, also called Gamaliel of 
Jabne, or the younger , was born about A.D. 50. lie 
was a man of great erudition ; was the teacher of Aqui- 
la, author of a Greek translation of the O. T., and of 
Onkelos, the Chaldee translator of the Pentateuch. 
Like his father, he labored earnestly to introduce the 
Plutonian philosophy into Jewish theology. On the 
death of Jochanan ben Zaehai, he was elected to the 
presidency of the rabbinical college at Jamnia. Short- 
ly after his accession he reconstituted the Sanhedrim, 
which, though divested at this time of all secular author- 
ity, nevertheless exerted a great influence on the moral 
life of the Jews of their time. By the vigorous measures 
which Gamaliel adopted, he made many enemies, and 
was even for a time deposed from the presidency, and 
instead of being superseded by his lineal descendant, as 
had been customary, It. Eleazar b. Azzariah, was elect- 
ed, and a re-examination of all the opinions which Ga- 
maliel affirmed to belong to the Hillel school was or- 
dered by the Sanhedrim. About twenty years before j 
Christ a division arose among the Jewish rabbis, and ' 
the result 'was the founding of a separate rabbinical 
college, called “ School of Shamai.” When the San- 
hedrim entered upon a re-examination of Gamali- 
el’s doctrines, they “ decided in favor of the opinions 
which were in harmony with the most ancient tradi- 
tions, irrespective of schools. ” “This collection of de- 
cisions is called Ednjoth (rVl:', collection of witness) or 
Beckirali (rn^n3, selection). Among the decisions re- 
considered was the opinion about the booh of Ecclesias- 
tes and the Song of Songs , which constituted one of the 
differences between the school of Shammai and Hil- 
lel.” The former excluded and the latter included 
them in the canon, and “after a minute investigation 
of the evidence, it was found that, according to the most 
anejent traditions, these books were regarded as in- 
spired, and hence the former decision of the school of 
Hillel was confirmed, viz. that the said books should 
be retained in the canon” (. Tadjim , iii, 5 ; Ednjoth , v, 3). 
Gamaliel was, however, reinstated in his position, but 
with defined and restricted power; and the regard in 
which he was held at the time of his death, about A.D. 
116, is evineed by Onkelos, “who showed him royal 
honors at his funeral, and burned costly garments and 
furniture to the amount of seventy Tyrian mina?, i. e. 
about twenty-one pounds sterling. Such a funeral pile 
was generally raised only to kings.” — Kitto, Cyclopae- 
dia of Biblical Literature , ii, 62; Etheridge, Introduc- 
tion to Hebrew Literature, p. 59 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Blog. 
Gen. xix, 382. (J. II. W.) 

Gamba, Francis, a native of Como, one of the 


Protestant martyrs of the 16th century. He was ap* 
prehended and condemned to death by the senate of 
Milan. At the place of execution a monk presented 
a cross to him, to whom he said, “My mind is so full 
of the real merits and goodness of Christ, that I want 
not a piece of senseless stick to put me in mind of 
him.” His tongue was perforated to prevent his ad- 
dressing the crowd, but he gave a sign with his hand 
indicating peace and confidence. He was then stran- 
gled, and his body was burnt after his death, July 21, 
1554. — Fox, Booh of Martyrs, ii, 473; McCrie, Reforma- 
tion in Italy , chap. v. 

Gambold, John, a pious bishop of the Moravians, 
was born April 10, 1711, at Puncheston, South Wales, 
and was educated at Christ Church, Oxford. Tn 1733 
he became vicar of Stanton Harcourt, in Oxfordshire; 
but in 1742 he joined the Moravians, and was conse- 
crated bishop in 1754. “And certainly few, in any 
age of the Church, ever possessed, in a higher degree, 
the spiritual qualifications which the apostle specified 
as distinguishing a good bishop — fervor of devotion, 
humility of mind, disinterestedness of spirit, a disposi- 
tion to universal benevolence, and a willingness to un- 
dertake any labor, or submit to any privation, in order 
to promote the glory of God and the spiritual welfare 
of men. From the time of his consecration, he resided 
for ten years, performing all the duties of a primitive 
bishop over the Moravian congregation, in the metrop- 
olis, and at the same time maintaining an active over- 
sight by correspondence with all the ministers of his 
communion throughout England.” He died Sept. 13, 
1771. Among his writings are A Memoir of Count Zin - 
zendorf : — Doctrine and Discipline of the United Breth- 
ren: — History of the Greenland Mission of the United 
Brethren : — Hymns (1748) : — Summary of Christian 
Doctrine (1767, 12mo). II is Boris were edited, with 
an introductory essay, by Tlios. Erskine, Esq. (Glasg. 
1822, 12mo). — Jamieson, Cyclopaedia of Biography , s. v. 

Games are so natural to man, especially in the pe- 
riod of childhood, that no nation lias been or can be 
entirely without them. (I.) Accordingly, a few traces 
are found in the early Hebrew history of at least pri- 
vate and childish diversions. The heat of the climate 
in Syria would indispose the mature to more bodily 
exertion than the duties of life imposed, while the 
gravity which is characteristic of the Oriental charac- 
ter might seem compromised by anything so light as 
sports. Dignified ease, therefore, corresponds with the 
idea which we form of Oriental recreation. The father 
of the family sits at the door of his tent, or reclines on 
the house-top, or appears at the city gate, and there 
tranquilly enjoys repose, broken by conversation, un- 
der the light and amid the warmth of the bright and 
breezy heavens, in the cool of the retiring day, or be- 
fore the sun has assumed his burning ardors (Deut. 
xvi, 14 ; Lam. v, 14), Of the three classes into which 
games may be arranged, juvenile, manly, and public, 
the first two alone belong to the Hebrew' life ; the lat- 
ter, as noticed in the Bible, being either foreign intro- 
ductions into Palestine, or the customs of other coun- 
tries. 

1. With regard to juvenile games, the notices are 
very few. It must not, however, be inferred from this 
that the Hebrew children were without the amuse- 
ments adapted to their age. The toys and sports of 
childhood claim a remote antiquity ; and if the chil- 
dren of the ancient Egyptians had their dolls of inge- 
nious construction, and played at ball (Wilkinson, A nc. 
Egypt, abrklgm. i, 197), and if the children of the Bo- 
mans amused themselves much as those of the present 
day (Horace, 2 Sat. iii, 247), we may imagine the He- 
brew children doing the same, as they played in the 
streets of Jerusalem (Zech. viii, 5 ; comp. Jer. xxx, 19). 
The only recorded sports, however, are keeping tame 
birds (Job xli, 5; compare Catull. 2, 1), and imitating 
the proceedings of marriages or funerals (Matt, xi, 


GAMES 


730 


GAMES 


Iff). Commenting on Zecli. xii, 3, Jerome mentions an 
amusement of the young which is seen practised in 
more than one part of the north of England. “ It is 
customary,” he says, “in the cities of Palestine, and 
has been so from ancient times, to place up and down 
large stones to serve for exercise for the young, who, 
according in each case to their degree of strength, lift 
these stones, some as high as their knees, others to 
their middle, others above their heads, the hands being 
kept horizontal and joined under the stone.” A simi- 
lar mode of exercise prevailed in ancient Egypt (Wil- 
kinson, i, 207). See Children. 



Music, song, and dancing were recreations reserved 
mostly for the young or for festive occasions. From 
Lam. v, 10, “ the crown is fallen from our head” (see 
the entire passage on the subject of games), it might 
be inferred that, as among the Greeks and Latins, chap- 
lets of flowers were sometimes worn during festivity. 
To the amusements just mentioned frequent allusions 
are found in holy writ, among which may be given 
Psa. xxx, 11; Jer. xxxi, 13; Luke xv, 25. In Isa. 
xxx, 29, a passage is found which serves to show how 
much of festivity and mirth was mingled with relig- 
ious observances; the journey on festival occasions up 
to Jerusalem was enlivened by music, if not by dan- 
cing. Some of the chief objects aimed at in the Greek 
and other games were gained among the Hebrews by 
their three great national festivals — the Passover, the 
Feast of Weeks, and the Feast of Tabernacles. At the 
recurrence of these festivals the nation was brought 
together in honor of the true God; and in times of re- 
ligious feeling these great meetings were looked for- 
ward to and were celebrated with perhaps not less joy, 
though joy of a somewhat different kind, from that 
with which the Greeks looked forward to and cele- 
brated their Olympic, Isthmian, and Nemean games. 
The public games of the Hebrews seem to have been 
exclusively connected with military sports 
and exercises, and even of these the no- 
tices are few and brief. It was probably 
in this way that the Jewish youth were 
instructed in the use of the bow and of the 
sling (1 Sam. xx, 20, 30-35; Jude xx, 
l(i; 1 Ghron. xii, 2). Allusion to what 
would seem to have been a kind of war- 
dance, such as we read of in different ^ 

countries, seems to be made in 2 Sam. ii, 

14, where Abner proposes that the young ‘ — 

men should arise and “ play” before the J 
two armies. The Hebrew pTTw (sha- I I J \ 
ckak'), for “play,” is frequently used for • ' 
dancing (2 Sam. vi, 21; Jer. xxxi, 4); 
and Abner seems here to refer to a sporty 
of this kind, not now to he used as an 
amusement, but turned into stern real- Ancient 


ity. This may indicate the practice among the an- 
cient Israelites of games somewhat similar to the 
jousts and tournaments of the Middle Ages. On the 
subject of dancing, see Michaelis, Afosaisehe Hecht, 
article 197. No trace is found in Hebrew antiq- 
uity of any of t lie ordinary games of skill or hazard 
which are so numerous in the Western world. Dice 
are mentioned by the Talmudists (Mishna, Sankedr . iii, 
3; Shabb. xxiii, 2), probably introduced from Egypt 
(Wilkinson, ii, 424); and, if we assume that the He- 
brews imitated, as not improbably they did, other 
amusements of their neighbors, we might add such 
games as odd and even, mora (the miccirc dighis of the 
Homans), draughts, hoops, catching balls, etc. (Wilkin- 
son, i, 188). If it be objected tli-at such trifling amuse- 
ments were inconsistent with the gravity of the He- 
brews, it may be remarked that the amusements of the 
Arabians at the present day are equally trifling, such 
as blind man’s buff, hiding the ring, etc. (Wcllsted’s 
Arabia , i, 1G0). See Sport. 

2. With regard to manly games, they were not much 
followed up bv the Hebrews; the natural earnestness 
of their character and the influence of the climate alike 
indisposed them to active exertion. The chief amuse- 
ment of the men appears to have consisted in conver- 
sation and joking (4er. xv, 17 ; Prov. xxvi, 19). The 
military exercise noticed above in 2 Sam. ii, 14, if in- 
tended as a sport, it must liave resembled the jerid , 
with the exception of the combatants not being mount- 
ed ; but it is more consonant to the sense of the pas- 
sage to give the term there used the sense of fencing ax 
fighting (Thenius, Comm, ad loc.). Even among the ac- 
tive Egyptians, howeA'er, whose games have 1 cen fig- 
ured on their mural tablets, we find little that sug- 
gests a comparison with the vigorous contests of the 
Grecian games. One of the most remarkable is the 
following, showing what appears to be play with the 
single-stick (Wilkinson, i, 20G). In some instances 



wrestling or similar athletic exercises are exhibited 
on the Egyptian monuments, and even women are rep- 
resented as tumbling in like sportive maimer; but 



Egyptian Men swinging Women round by the Arms, 


GAMES 


731 


GAMES 


fcheir favorite sport appears to have been the more ss- | 
date game of draughts, which even royalty did not dis- | 
dain to share (Wilkinson, i, 189 sq.). See Play. 

3. Public games were altogether foreign to the spirit j 
of Hebrew institutions; the great religious festivals 
supplied the pleasurable excitement and the feelings 
of national union w hich rendered the games of Greece 
so popular, and at the same time inspired the persua- 
sion that such gatherings should be exclusively con- 
nected with religious duties. Accordingly, the erec- 
tion of a gymnasium by Jason, in which the discus w'as 
chiefly practised, w'as looked upon as a heathenish pro- 
ceeding (1 Maec. i, 14 ; 2 3Iacc. iv, 12-14), and the sub- 
sequent erection by Herod of a theatre and amphithe- 
atre at Jerusalem (Josephus, Ant. xv, 8, 1), as w'ell as 
at Caesarea {Ant. xv, 9, 6; War , i, 21, 8) and at Bery- 
tus (Ant. xix, 7, 5), in each of which a quinquennial 
festival iu honor of Caesar was celebrated with the 
usual contests in gymnastics, chariot-races, music, 
and -with wild beasts — was viewed with the deepest 
aversion by the general body of the Jews (.4wL xv, 8, 
1). In the Old Testament two passages contain a 
clear reference to games : Psa. xix, 5, “ Rejoiceth as a 
strong man to run a race;” Eccl. ix, 11, “I said that 
the race is not to the swift.” The entire absence of 
verbal or historical reference to this subject, however, 
in the Gospels show's how little it entered into the life 
of the Jews. Some of the foreign Jews, indeed, im- 
bibed a taste for theatrical representations ; Josephus 
(Life, 3) speaks of one Aliturus, an actor of farces (pi- 
poAoyoij), w ho w r as in high favor with Nero. (See Eich- 
liorn, De Judteor. re scenica, in the Comment. Gcetting. 
Rec.) 

(II.) Among the Greeks, on the other hand, and 
subsequently among the Romans likewise, the rage for 
theatrical exhibitions w T as such that every city of any 
size possessed its theatre and stadium. At Ephesus 
an annual contest (dytov teal yvfn>tKOQ ica'i iioikjikuc , 
Thucyd. iii, 304) was held in honor of Diana, W’hieh 
w T as superintended by officers named ’Acndpxai (Acts 

xix, 31; A. V. “chief of Asia”). Sec Asiarcii. It 
is possible that Paul was present w r hen these games 
w r ere proceeding, as they were celebrated in the month 
of jMav (see Conyheare and IIow r son’s St. Paul, ii, 82); 
but this hardly agrees with the notes of time in Acts 

xx, 1-3, 1G. 

1. Roman Beast-fights and Gladiatorial Shows. — (1.) 
A direct reference to the exhibitions that took place 
on such occasions is made in the term Wtjp.ogdxijaa, 
“ I fought w r ith beasts” (1 Cor. xv, 32). The 6bjp<o 
ga)'ia or beast-fight (venatio in Latin) constituted 
among the Romans a part of the amusements of the 
circus or amphitheatre. It consisted in the combat of 
human beings with animals. The persons destined to 
this barbarous kind of amusement w T ere termed 6b/oio- 
/*rt\' 0 *, hestiarii. They w T ere generally of two classes : 
1. Voluntary, that is, persons w r ho fought cither for 
amusement or for pay : they were clothed and provi- 
ded with offensive and defensive weapons. 2. Con- 



demned persons, who w T ere mostly exposed to the fury 
of the animals unclothed, unarmed, and sometimes 
bound (Cicero, Pro Sext. G4 ; Ep. ad Quint. Frat. ii, G ; 
Seneca, l)e Benefi ii, 19; Tertull. Apo 1 . 9). Political 
offenders especially w r ere so treated, and Josephus 
(JFar, vii, 3, 1) records that no less than 2500 Jews 


w'ere destroyed in the theatre at Caesarea by this and 
similar methods. The expression as used by Paul is 
usually taken as metaphorical, both on account of 
the qualifying words fear uvOpioirov, “after the man- 
ner of a man,” the absence of all reference to the oc- 
currence in the Acts, and the rights of citizenship 
which he enjoyed: none of these arguments can be 
held to be absolutely conclusive, while, on the other 
hand, the term Otjpiopax^v is applied in its literal 
sense in the apostolical epistles (Ignatius, ad Eph. 1; 
ad Trail. 10; M art. Polyc. 3; comp. Euseb. E. II. iv, 
15), and, where metaphorically used (Ignatius, ad Rom. 
5), an explanation is added which implies that it would 
otherwise have been taken literally. Certainly Paul 
was exposed to some extraordinary suffering at Ephe- 
sus, which he describes in language borrowed from, if 
not descriptive of, a real case of 6tymo/<rt\ia ; for he 
speaks of himself as a criminal condemned to death 
(tTiidavaTiovc, 1 Cor. iv, 9 ; (nroicpipa tov Oavdrov i<7- 
X>iuaptv, 2 Cor. i, 9), exhibited previously to the exe- 
cution of the sentence (ct7rictiZey, 1 Cor. 1. c.), reserved 
to the conclusion of the games (to'yaroot;), as was usual 
with the theriomachi (“novissimos elegit, velut bestiari- 
os,” Tertull. De Pudic. 14), and thus made a spectacle 
(Oiarpov iytv))9)]i-ieii). Lightfoot (Exercit. on 1 Cor. 
xv, 32) points to the friendliness of the asiarchs at a 
subsequent period (Acts xix, 31) as probably resulting 
from some wonderful preservation which they had wit- 
nessed. Nero selected this mode of executing the 
Christians at Rome, with the barbarous aggravation 
that the victims were dressed up in the skins of beasts 
! (Tacitus, Ann. xv, 44). Paul may possibly allude to 
! his escape from such torture in 2 Tim. iv, 17. As 
J none but the vilest of men were in general devoted to 
' these beast-fights, no punishment could be more con- 
dign and cruel than what was frequently inflicted on 
the primitive Christians, when they were hurried away 
“to the lions” (as the phrase "was), merely for their 
fidelity to conscience and to Christ its Lord. Ephesus 
appears to have had some unenviable distinction in 
these brutal exhibitions (Schleusner, Lex. s. v.), so 
that there is a peculiar propriety in the language of the 
apostle. 

Of these beast-fights the Romans were passionately 
fond. The number of animals which appear to have 
been from time to time engaged in them is such as to 
excite in the reader’s mind both pity and aversion. 
Sylla, during his pnetorship, sent into the arena no 
fewer than 100 lions, which were butchered by beings 
wearing the human shape. Pompev caused the de- 
struction in this way of GOO lions. On the same oeea- 
I sion there perished nearly twenty elephants. Those 
I numbers, however, arc small compared with the butch- 
ery which took place in later periods. Under Titus, 

' 5000 wild and 4000 tame animals, and in the reign of 
Trajan, 11,000 ani- ' 

; mals, are said to have 
been destroyed. See 
Smith, Diet, of Class. 

A nt. s. v. Bestiarii. 

(2.) The fights of 
the gladiators with 
one another was also 
a common practice at 
Rome. It began B. 

C. 2G4, and increased 
to such a fearful ex- 
tent that on a single 
occasion, in honor of 
the triumph of the 
emperor Trajan over 
the Dacians, 10,000 
gladiators fought for 
[ the amusement of 
the people. They 

; " ere f irs t com- ^ nc i en t Figure of the famous Gladia- 
[ posed of captives or " tor Baton. 



GAMES 


732 


GAMES 


condemned malefactors, but afterwards, as the passion 
for blood grew stronger, free-born citizens, men of no- 
ble birth, and even women, fought after this fashion. 
The spectators betted on their favorite gladiators with 
much the same feelings as they betted on the favor- 
ite horses which ran before them in the circus. See 
Smith, Diet, of Class . Ant. s. v. Gladiatores. 

The games and theatrical exhibitions of the heathen 
were regarded by the early Christians with as strong 
disapprobation as they wore by the Jews generally, 
and fur better reasons (Neander’s Church Hist, i, 365, 
§ iii). National antagonism to everything foreign as 
such had much effect in producing Jewish opposition 
to the games. It was as ministering in themselves 
and by their attendant circumstances to the lusts of 
the flesh and of the eye, as producing almost of ne- 
cessity a cruel temper in the beholders, and running 
counter to the moral feeling, modesty, and sobriety 
of the Christian character, that the public spectacles 
and games of the heathen were ranked among those 
pomps and vanities which the Christians were obliged 
to renounce by their baptismal vow. Even the bet- 
ter-minded among the heathen regarded these games 
with disapproval. Pliny the consul speaks with ap- 
proval of Junius Mauricius, who expressed an earnest 
wish that they could be abolished at Rome (Pliny’s 
Letters, iv, 22); nor does Tacitus appear to treat them 
with much greater respect {Hist, iii, 83). Rome add- 
ed to the Greek example features of cruelty which 
were unknown in the original Grecian games ; and 
there was one feature of difference between the Gre- 
cian and Roman games which rendered the former a 
much more fitting illustration of the Christian life than 
the latter were, namely, that in the Grecian games the 
most eminent men in the land came forward and con- 
tended personally for victory, while in Rome the most 
eminent men were merely spectators of the contests 
of their inferiors (Gibbon, Decline and Fall, chap, xl, p. 
11). Diomede and Menelaus, Antiloehus and Ajax, and 
Ulysses, the kings, great warriors, and wise men of 
the Grecian states, deemed it an honor to contend for 
victory in their countries’ games, and even old Nestor, 
the Homeric type cf perfection in the qualities of mind 
and body, regretted that his years prevented him from 
joining in the glorious strife {Iliad, xxiii, G34) ; but 
“ a senator, or even a citizen, conscious of his dignity, 
would have blushed to expose his person or his horses 
in the circus of Rome.” See Smith's Did. of Class. 
Ant. s. v. Ludi. 

2. Grecian Prize or Gymnastic Contests . — The scrip- 
tural allusions (Gal. ii, 2; v, 7 ; Phil, ii, 16; iii, 14; 1 
Tim. vi, 12; 2 Tim. ii, 5; Heb. xii, 1, 4, 12) are the 
more appropriate, because the Greeian games were in 
their origin and in their best days intimately connected 
with religion. Games in Greece were very numerous. 
They are traceable by tradition back to the earliest 
periods of Grecian civilization. Indeed, much of the 
obscurity which rests on their origin is ‘a consequence 
and a sign of their high and even mvlhic antiquity. 
Sec Smith, Did. of Class. Ant. s. v. Athletic. 

(1.) Four of these games stood far above the rest, 
bearing the appellation of Upoi, “sacred,” and deriv- 
ing their support from the great Hellenic family at 
large, though each one had speeial honor in its own lo- 
cality: these four were the Olympic, Pythian, Neme- 
an, and Isthmian. The first were held in the highest 
honor. The victors at the Olympic games were ac- 
counted the noblest and happiest of mortals, and every 
means was taken that could show the respect in which 
they were held. These games were celebrated every 
five years at Olympia, in Elis, on the west side of the 
Peloponnesus, lienee the epoch called the Olym- 
piads. 

The gymnastic exercises were laid down in a well- 
planned systematic series, beginning with the easier 
{tcovfpn), and proceeding on to the more difficult (/3«- 
psa'). Some of these were specially fitted to give 


strength, others agilit} r ; some educated the hands, oth- 
ers the feet. Among the lighter exercises was reck- 




koq), hurling the javelin {cucovnor'). When skill had 
been obtained in these, and the consequent strength, 
then followed a severer course of discipline. This was 
twofold — 1, simple; 2, compound. r lhe simple con- 




pound we find in the pentathlon {TrsrraSXov, quinquer- 
tium , the five contests), made up of the union of leap- 
ing, running, quoiting, wrestling, and in hurling the 
spear ; and in the pankration ( 7 rayKndnor, general 
trial of strength),' which consisted of wrestling and 
boxing. It is not necessary here to speak in detail 
of the distinctions which Galen makes between the or- 
dinary motions of the body and those which were re- 


GAMES 


GAMES 


733 



quired in these exercises, since the names themselves 
are sufficient to make manifest how manifold, severe, 
long, ancl difficult the bodily discipline was, and the 
inference is easy and unavoidable that the effect on 
the bodily frame must have been of the most decided 
and lasting kind. See Exercise (Bodily). 

Racing , which is the kind of contest chiefly referred 
to in the 1ST. T., may be traced back to the earliest pe- 
riods of Grecian antiquity, and may be regarded as 
the first friendly contest in which men engaged. Ac- 
cordingly, the Olympic and Pythian, probably also 
the other games, opened with foot-races. Foot-racing, 
perfected by systematic practice, was divided into dif- 
ferent kinds. If one ran merely to the end of the 
course (orrhuou), it was called stadium ; if one went 
thither and back, he ran the double course (dlavXoc). 



The longest course was the which required 

extraordinary speed and power of endurance. What 
it involved the ancients have left in no small uncer- 
tainty. It is sometimes given as seven times over the 
stadium; at others, twelve times; at others again, 
twenty; and even the number of four -and -twenty 
times is mentioned. In the preparatory discipline ev- 
erything was done which could conduce to swiftness 
and strength. The exercises were performed with the 
body naked and well oiled. Minute directions were 
established in order to prevent foul play (/ca/coreyria, 
Kcncovpyut\ of any kind, so that all the competitors 
might start and run on terms of entire equality. The 
contest was generally most severe ; to reach the goal 
sooner by one foot was enough to decide the victory. 
See Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. Stadium. See 
Discus ; Leading ; Wrestling. 



Besides the athletic games above described, there 
were others, consisting of racing in chariots, on horse- 
back, or with torches; and still others, in which the 
parties strove to excel one another in skill in playing 
upon various instruments. See Hack. 

At the Olympic games the prize was simply a chap- 
let made of wild olive. The crowns were laid on a 
tripod, and placed in the middle of the course, so as to 
be seen by all. On the same table there were also ex- 
posed to view palm-branches, one of which was given 
into the hand of each conqueror at the same time with 
the chaplet. The victors, having beeu summoned by 
proclamation, \vere presented with the ensigns of vic- 
tory, and conducted along the stadium, preceded by a 
herald, who proclaimed their honors, and announced 
their name, parentage, and country. The real reward, 
however, was in the fame which ensued. A chaplet 
w r on in the chariot-races at Olympia was the highest 
of earthly honors. What congratulations from friends ; 
how w r as the public eye directed to the fortunate con- 
queror; what honor had he conferred on his native 
city", and for what office w r as such a one not fit ! With 
what intense and deep delight must his bosom have 
been filled when the full acclaim of assembled Greece 
fell upon his ear, coining in loud salutations and ap- 
plauses from every part of the cnnvded course ! Then 
came the more private attentions of individual friends. 
One brought a chaplet of flowers ; another bound his 
head with ribbons. Afterwards came the triumphal 
sacrifice made to the twelve gods, accompanied by 
sumptuous feasting. The poet now began his office, 
gaining in some cases, both for himself and the happy 
victor, an unexpected immortality. Music also lent 
her aid, and his name was sung wherever the noble 
accents of the Greek tongue asserted their supremacy. 
In order to perpetuate the memory of these great men, 
their names and achievements were entered into a 
public register, which was under the care of suitable 
officers. A no less privilege was that of having a stat- 
ue of themselves placed, either at the expense of their 
country^ or their friends, in the sacred grove of Jupiter. 
A perhaps still greater honor awaited the victor on his 
return home. The conquerors at the Isthmian games 
v'ere wont to be received in their chariots, superbly 
attired, amid thronging and jubilant multitudes. One 
or tw r o other privileges belonged to these victors, such 
as immunity from public offices, and a certain yearly 
stipend. At the Isthmian games the prize was ivy 
, during the mythic periods. In later ages the victor 
was usually crowned with a chaplet of pine-leaves. 
If the conqueror had come off* victorious in the three 
great divisions — music, gymnastics, and racing — he 
w'as in the Pythian, as well as in the other sacred 
games, presented also with a palm-branch. See Smith’s 
Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. Isthmian, Olympian, Neme- 
an, Pythian Games severally. See Crown. 



Corinthian Coin of Antoninus, with Isthmian Crown. 


(2.) Paul’s epistles (as above) abound with allusions 
to the Greek contests, borrow-ed probably" from the 
Isthmian games, at which he may" well have been 
present during his first visit to Corinth (Conybeare 
and TIowson, ii, 20G), These contests (o ciywv — a w’ord 
of general import, applied by’ Paul, not to th efght, as 
the A.V. has it, hut to the ntce, 2 Tim. iv, 7 ; 1 Tim. 
vi, 12) are minutely" illustrated by" his references, in 
which they are used as a figure of the Christian’s 



GAMES 


734 


GAMMADLM 


course of duty and struggle with opposing influences. 
The competitors (6 dywvi^opivog, 1 Cor. ix, 25; tav 
aGX/J rig, 2 Tim. ii, 5) required a long and severe 
course of previous training (comp. (TiopuriKi) yvfivaoia , 
1 Tim. iv, 8), during which a particular diet was en- 
forced (Tidvra iyicpdTeveTai, couXayioyio, 1 Cor. ix, 25, 
27). In the Olympic contests these preparatory exer- 
cises (Trooyi'/ii'ttV/iara) extended over a period of ten 
months, during the last of which they were conducted 
under the supervision of appointed officers. The con- 
tests took place in the presence of a vast multitude of 
spectators (irtpiKtiptv or vsopoc /laori'owr, Ileb. xii, 1), 
the competitors being the spectacle (diarpov — Qtapa, 
1 Cor. iv, 0; OtaZoptvoi, Ileb. x, 33). The games 
were opened by the proclamation of a herald (ic?/pt'£«c» 

1 Cor. ix, 27), whose office it was to proclaim the name 

and country of each candidate, and especially to an- 
nounce the name of the victor before the assembled 
multitude, as well as to signify the other crises of the 
game. Certain conditions and rules were laid down 
for the different contests, as, that no bribe be offered 
to a competitor ; that in boxing the combatants should 
not lay hold of one another, etc. ; any infringement 
of these rules (idv pi) vopipujg 2 Tim. ii, 5) 

involved a loss of the prize, the competitor being pro- 
nounced disqualified (dooKijiog, 1 Cor. ix, 27, “cast- 
away,” a term that seems to picture the condition of 
one disgraced by being adjudged unfit to enter the 
lists or rejected after the game was over). The judge 
was selected for his spotless integrity (b chccuo g Kpcn)g, 

2 Tim. iv, 8) : his office was to decide any disputes 
(j3pajSevkno^ Col. iii, 15; A. V. “rule”) and to give 
the prize (ro /3o«/3f tor, 1 Cor. ix, 24; Phil, iii, 14), 
consisting of a crown ( orttyavoc , 2 Tim. ii, 5 ; iv, 8) 
of leaves of wild olive at the Olympic games, and of 
pine, or, at one period, ivy, at the Isthmian games. 
These crowns, though perishable ((jiOaprov, 1 Cor. ix, 
25 ; comp. 1 Pet. v, 4), were always regarded as a source 
of unfailing exultation (Phil. iv. 1; 1 Thess. ii, 19): 
palm-branches w’ere also placed in the hands of the 
victors (Rev. vii, 9). Paul alludes to two only out of 
five contests, hoxing and running, most frequently to 
the latter. In boxing (irvypi) ; compare tzvktsvui, 1 
Cor. ix, 2G), the hands and arms were bound with the 
cestus, a band of leather studded with nails, which 
very much increased the severity of the blow, and ren- 
dered a bruise inevitable (v7ro7ridZto, 1 Cor. L c. ; vtcm- 
7 nu—rd i)7 to tovq w' rag tujv 7r Xifyibv lyw/, Pollux, 
Onom. ii, 4, 52). The skill of the combatant was 
shown in avoiding the blows of his adversary, so that 
they were expended on the air (ovk tog dtpa dtpior, 1 
Cor. 1. c.), or the phrase may allude to the preludial 
trials of comparative strength (comp. Statius, Theb. vi, 
487 ; Virgil, jEneiil, iv, 370). The foot-race (Fpopog, 2 
Tim. iv, 7, a word peculiar to Paul ; comp. Acts xiii, 
55; xx, 24) was run in the stadium (Iv araciqi ; A. X. 
“race;” 1 Cor. ix, 24), an oblong area, open at one 
end and rounded in a semicircular form at the other, 
along the sides of which were the raised tiers of seats 
on which the spectators sat. The race was either 
from one end of the stadium to the other, or, in the fii- 
avXog, hack again to the starting-post. There may 
be a latent reference to the c iavXog in the expression 
dp\i}ybv icai TsXtaoTtjv (Ileb. xii, 2), Jesus being, as 
it were, the starting-point and the goal, the locus a quo 
and the locus ad quoin of the Christian’s course. The 
judge was stationed by the goal (otoottoi' ; Anth.Vers. 
“mark Phil, iii, 14), which was clearly visible from 
one end of the stadium to the other, so that the runner 
could make straight for it (ovk dig ddi)Xojg, 1 Cor. ix, 
2G). Paul brings vividly before our minds the earn- 
estness of the competitor, having castoff every encum- 
brance (oyKov aTToOfjuvoi 7r«Vrn)» especially any 
closely-fitting robe (tu 7 rtpi(TTarov, Hob. xii, T; comp. 
Conyhcarc and Howson, ii, 543), holding on his course 
uninterruptedly (enoKto, Phil, iii, 12), his eye fixed on 
the distant goal (arfiopuirreg, «7rff3At7r£, Ileb. xii, 2; 


I xi, 26), unmindful of the space already past (to. ptv 
| oTcitTM iiriXavOavofitvoc, Phil. 1. c.), and stretching 
| forward with bent body (role ct ifnrpoaOsv hrtKTttvo- 
jnvoc), his perseverance (ct viropovi)g, Ileb. xii, 1), 
bis joy at the completion of the course Qitra \'apdc f 
Acts xx, 24), his exultation as he not only receives 
(tXaflov, Phil, iii, 12), but actually grasps (KaraXdfiio, 
not “apprehend,” as A. AT Phil. ; iiriXafiov. 1 Tim. vi. 
12, 19) the crown which had been set apart (diroRtirai, 
2 Tim. iv, 8) for the victor. The lengths of the bounds 
(a stade or furlong apart) give some idea of the sever- 
ity of the trial, and serve to illustrate the meaning of 
the apostle when he speaks of running with patience 
the race set before him (vTropori), sustained effort). 
Indeed, one Ladas, a victor of the Olympic games, in 
the toAiyor, or long race, was so exhausted by bis ef- 
forts that, immediate!}' on gaining the honor and be- 
ing crowned, he yielded up his breath : a fact which 
also serves to throw light on scriptural language, as 
showing with what intense eagerness these aspirants 
(doXi\ocp6poi, long-runners) strove for perishing chap- 
lets ((fiOaprbv <TTt<pavov). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. ; 
Fairbairn, s. v. See Runner. 

On the subject here treated of, see AA'est’s Odes of 
Pindar , 2d ed. ; Potter’s Antiquities of Greece, bk. ii, 
cli. xxi-xxv; and Adams’s Roman Antiq. p. 224-234. 
By far the best work, however, is Krause’s Die Gym- 
nastik und Agonisiik dor Jlellenen (Halle, 1835) ; his 
Darstellung d r OlympMschen Spiele (Vien. 1838); and 
his Die Pt/thien , Xemeen und Isthmeen (Leipzig, 1841). 
See also Nagel, De ludis seecularibus Romanorum in Ge- 
mara commemoratis (Altorf, 1743) ; Kekhard, De raulo 
athleta (ATteb. 1G8S); Guiding, De lucvtionibus sacris e 
palestra petitis (ibid. 1726) ; Schopfer, De locutionibus 
Pauli gymnasticis (ibid. 1764) ; Auerswald, De veterum 
arte luctun i (ibid. 1720); Gunther, De enrsoribus vete- 
rum (ib. 1709); Hofmann, De athletis veterum (Halle, 
1717); Lydii A gonistica sacra (Franeq. 1700). 

Gam'madim (Ileb. Gammadim ', ; Sept. 

(pvXaKsc, ATilg. Pygmai , A. AT “ Gaminadims”) is the 
name of a class of men mentioned in Ezek. xxvii, 11, 
as defenders of the towers of Tyre in connection with 
the mercenaries from Arad. See Tyre. A variety 
of explanations of the term have been offered. 

(1.) Some (e. g. Forster. Diet. Ebr. Xov. s. v.) sup- 
pose a connection with T*«h, go' mod, a cubit , q. d. cubit- 
high men , whence the ATilg. has pigmies (so Kashi, Kim- 
ehi, and others). Michaelis (iSvpplem. p. 32G) thinks 
that the apparent height alone is referred to, with the 
intention of conveying an idea of the great height of 
the towers. Spencer (De Leg. Ileb. Rit. ii, cap. 24) ex- 
plains it of small images of the tutelar gods, like the 
Lares of the Romans (see also his TJissert. de Gamma- 
dim , in Ugolini Thcsanr. xxiii, 18). This view seems 
to be refuted by Anthing, Dissertat. de sublesia twv 
per Pymeeos interpretation (A T itcmb. 1710). 

(2.) Others (e. g. Pfeiffer, Dub. ) 1 ’ex. p. 783; Ludolf, 
Comment, hist. PEthiop. p. 73, 74) treat it as a geograph- 
ical or local term ; Grotius holds Gamad to he a He- 
braized form (ciyKLOV for VCi*) of the name Ancon , a 
Phoenician town ; the Chaldee paraphrase has Cappa- 
docians , as though reading Fuller (Miscell. vi, 

G98) identifies them as the inhabitants of Gamala (Plin. 
v, 14) ; and again the word has been broken up into 
Zts = ulso the Medes. Rosenmiiller ( Schol . ad 
loc.) thinks it the name of some obscure Phoenician 
town, not elsewhere mentioned. But these conjectures 
are equally without foundation (see Ilarduin, ad loc.; 
Reland, Palccst, p. 784). 

(3.) Most later interpreters give a more general mil- 
itary sense to the word. Gesenius (Thesaur. p. 292) 
connects it with a bough, whence the sense of 

brave irarriors. Lee renders short-su-ordsmen, from the 
| same Arabie root. Havernick (ad loc.) understands 


GAMUL 


V 35 


GANGES 


daring ones , from an Aramaean root. Hitzig (ad loc.) 
suggests deserters ( Ueberldufer ), and draws attention 
to the preposition in as favoring tins sense : he inclines, 
however, to the opinion that the prophet had in view 
Cant, iv, 4, and that the word in that passage 

has been successively corrupted into as read 

by the Sept., which gives <pv\aictg and as in 

the present text. The Syr. and Arabian interpreters 


Its Religious Aspects . — The worship of this river is 
enjoined in the Hindu Shasters. Certain places on 
it are particularly sacred. At Hurdwar, or the Gate 
of Vishnu, where the Ganges issues from the Hima- 
laya, the number assembling annually is calculated 
to" amount to two millions and a half. Most of them 
come to wash away their sins. After every twelve 
years, which is a more auspicious period, millions as- 
semble on certain festival days, and it requires a strong 


agree with the Sept., rendering watchmen (so Luther, i p 0 ]i ce f orce to keep the people from drowning each 
‘ l Wachter”). Fiirst ( Heb . Lex. s. v.) refers the word | other, in the rush to bathe at the auspicious moment, 
to an obsolete 1-3, to place or make stand (akin with At Allahabad, where the Ganges and Jumna unite, a 


the above Arabic gamad, to be jinn ), and translates gar- 
rison (Besatzungj, a view that seems to agree with the 
context. The following words of the verse — “They 
hanged their shields upon thy walls round about” — are 
illustrated by one of the bas-reliefs found at Ivouyunjik 
(Layard, Nineveh , ii, 29G). — Smith, s v. 



B 951 


IB 91 


n 


Castle of a maritime People (probably the Tyrians), with the 
shields hanging upon the walls. 

Ga'mul (Heb. Gamut, ^-3, iceaned; Sept. F« 


third river, called Sarasicatee , sister to these two, ac- 
cording to Hindu notions, flows under them. The 
junction is called Tribenee , and the sanctifying and 
purifying influences are secured to the worshipper by 
lying for a short time in the water in a prescribed 
position. The place where the Ganges empties it- 
self into the sea is also sacred (see I)as?, Manners and 
Customs of Hindus'). According to Ward, the water is 
used for food, bathing, medicine, religious ceremonies, 
etc. ; and formerly, when a Hindu king was crowned, 
it was poured upon his head as a part of his conse- 
cration. Until recently, the water of this river was 
used in the English courts of India in administering 
the oath to Hindus. So much is this river reverenced 
among the Hindus, that many Brahmans will not cook 
upon it, nor throw saliva into it, nor wash themselves 
nor their clothes in it. Some persons perform a jour- 
ney of five or six months to bathe in the Ganges, or to 
perform rites for deceased relations, and to carry this 
3 in their houses for religious and medic- 


' ^ t ' water to ijlaces 

,<o6\ V. r. Vafiout'iX), the chief of the twenty-second ina , purp ' oses . Many rich men , i iving at a great clis- 


course of priests as reinstituted after the captivity (1 
Chron. xxiv, 17), B.C. 535. See Betii-Gamul. 

Ganganelli. See Clement XIV. 

Ganges, or Gunga, a great river in India, im- 
portant not only in the geography, but also in the re- 
ligion of Hindustan. The sources of the streams which 
unite to form it are within the snowy range of the Him- 
alaya Mountains. The Bhagivetti rises from a snow- 
field near lat. 30° 5V N., and long. 79° 7' E. The Al- 
uknaada joins it, with a volume of water one half great- 
er than its own, at about lat. 30° 10' N., long. 78° 35' 
E., where it first receives the name Ganges , or Gang i. 
At Hurdwar, in lat. 29° 57' X., long. 78° 07' E., it en- 
ters the great plain of Hindustan. At Allahabad it 
is joined by the Jumna River; and again, about 270 
miles below that, by the Ghogra, having previously 
received the Gumbi and some others. About half way 
between Allahabad and the Ghogra is the holy city of 
the Hindus— Benares. Farther east it is joined by the 
Sone Gundnk and Koosy, and below Scebgnnj it be- 
gins to divide into the multitudinous streams by which 
it enters the sea. The one of these man}’- mouths of 
the Ganges which is most available for commerce is 
the Hooghly, upon whose hanks is the city of Calcutta. 
The Ganges varies much in its width at different places 
and with the seasons. Bishop Ileber, at the last of June, 
says that he could scarcely see across it: “It looked 


tanee, keep men constantly employed in making the 
journey to and fro to bring Ganges water. In these 
cases a relay of men is established at convenient dis- 
tances, and the water, carried in small bottles, careful- 
ly placed in baskets suspended on a bamboo swung 
across the shoulder. All castes worship Ganga. She 
is represented, according to Ward, as a white woman 
wearing a crown, sitting on the sea-animal named Ma- 
kara, and having in her right hand a water-lily, and in 
her left the lute. In certain months the merit of bath- 
ing in the Ganges is greater than in others. In every 
month, on the first, sixth, and eleventh of the moon, 
and at its total wane also, bathing in the Ganges is 
recommended. According to the Ganga , Yalya, Yalee, 
there are 3,500,000 holy places belonging to Ganga. 
The person who looks at Ganga, or bathes in this riv- 
er, will obtain all the fruit which arises from visiting 
all these 3,500,000 places. If a person who has been 
guilty of killing cows, Brahmans, or his holy teacher, 
or of drinking spirits, touch the waters of the Ganges, 
desiring in his mind the remission of these sins, they 
will be forgiven. “Amongst the rivers which, at the 
classical and the Purdnic period of India, were held in 
peculiar sanctity by the nation, the Ganges undoubt- 
edly occupied the foremost rank. In the Vedic poetry 
it is but seldom mentioned; and, whenever its name 
occurs, whether in the hymns of the Rigveda , or the 


like a sea, with many sails upon it.” Again, at Bog- ritual text of the Yajnrveda , no legendary fact or mvth- 
lipoor he writes : “A little below Boglipoor, last year, ical narrative is connected with it. Nor does the law- 
it was nine measured miles across; and this year, I book of Manu justify the conclusion that its author 
though far less ground is covered, it is supposed to be was acquainted with any of the myths which connect 
full seven; and here we are perhaps GOO miles, reck- this river in the epic poems and in the Puranas with 
oiling the windings of the river, from the sea” {Indian the Pantheon of India. The earliest, and by far the 
Journal, i. 130). At Cawnpoor, after the rains, he most poetical legend of the Ganges, occurs in that mas- 
writes : “The Ganges is still a noble stream; its width, terpiecc of Sanscrit poetry, the Rdmayana. We give 
at the usual place of ferrying, I should think not far its substance, because it explains the principal epithets 
from a mile and a half, but at this season the water is by which this river is spoken of, or invoked in ancient 
in many places shallow. At Allahabad it has an av- and modern Hindu poetry, and because it may be look- 
erage width of four miles, within the limits of which it , ed upon as the type of the many fables which refer to 
changes its course annually. Like all rivers that over- the purifying and supernatural properties of its waters, 
flow their banks, the Ganges holds a large admixture | There lived, says the Rdmayana , in Ayodlnui (the mod- 
of mud and sand. It has been computed that it de- ern Omle), a king, by the name of Sagara, who had 
livers into the sea annually an average of 534, GOO, 000 two wives, Kesini and Snmati ; but they bore him no 
tons of solid matter.” issue. He therefore repaired to the Himalaya; and 



GANGES 


730 


GANGES 


after a hundred years’ severe austerities, Blirigu, the ; 
saint, became favorable to his wishes, and granted him 
posterity, lvesini l ore him a son, who was named , 
Asamanjas, and Suinati brought forth a gourd, whence j 
sprang 60,000 sons, who in time became as many he- 
roes. Asamanjas, however, in growing up, was ad- 
dicted to cruel practices, and was therefore banished 
by his father from the kingdom. His son v'as Ansu- 
mat, who thus became heir to the throne of Ayodhya. I 
Now it happened that Sagara resolved to perform a 
great horsc-sacrilice ; and, in accordance with the sa- 
cred law, chose for this purpose a beautiful horse, which 
he confided to the care of Ansumat. But while the 
latter was engaged in the initiatory rites of the sacri- 
fice, a huge serpent emerged from the soil, and carried 
off the horse to the infernal regions. Thereupon Sa- 
gara, being informed of the obstruction which had be- 
fallen his pious undertaking, ordered his 60,000 sons 
to recover the horse from the subterranean robber. 
These then set to work, digging the earth, and strik- 
ing terror into all creation. Having explored, for 
many years, the infernal regions, they at last found the 
sacred horse grazing, and watched by a fiery saint, 
in whom they recognised the serpent, the cause of 
their troubles. Enraged, they attacked him; but the 
saint, w ho was no other being than Vishnu, at once re- 
duced them to ashes. Waiting in vain for the return 
of his sons, Sagara sent his grandson, Ansumat, in 
search of them and the sacred horse. Ansumat went, 
and soon ascertained the fate of his relatives; hut 
when — mindful of his duties — he wished to sprinkle 
consecrated water on their ashes, so as to enable their 
souls to rise to heaven, Garuda, the bird of Vishnu, 
and brother of Sumati, came in sight, and told Ansu- 
mat that it was improper to use terrestrial water for 
such a libation, and that he ought to provide the wa- 
ter of the Ganga, the heavenly daughter of Ilimavat 
(the Himalaya). Ansumat, bowing to the behest of 
the king of birds, w r ent home with the horse to Sagara; 
and the sacrifice being achieved, Sagara strove to cause 
the descent of the Ganga, but all his devices remained 
fruitless ; and, after 30,000 years, be went to heaven. 
Nor was Ansumat more successful in his attempt wdth 
the austerities he performed for the same purpose, nor 
his son Dwilipa, who, obeying the law' of time, after 
30,000 years, went to the heaven of Indra. Dwilipa 
had obtained a son, named Bhagiratha. He, too, was 
eager to obtain the descent of the Ganga : and having 
completed a course of severe austerities, he obtained 
the favor of Brahman, who told him he would yield to 
his prayers provided that Siva consented to receive 
the sacred river on his head, as the eartli would be too 
feeble to bear its fall when coming from heaven. And 
now Bhagiratha recommenced his penance, until Siva 
consented, and told the Ganga to descend from heaven. 
The river obeyed ; but, enraged at his command, she 
assumed a form of immense size, and increased her ce- 
lerity, thinking thus to carry him off to the infernal 
regions. Yet the god, becoming aw are of her inten- 
tions, caught and entangled her in his matted hair, out 
of which she could find no means of extricating her- 
self, though erring there for many years. Nor would 
she have been released had not Bhagiratha, by his re- 
newed penance, appeased the god, who then allowed 
her to descend from his head in seven streams — 111a- 
dini, Pavini, and Nalini, which went eastwards; and 
Sita, Suchakshus, and Sindhu, which went westwards, 
w hile the seventh stream followed Bhagiratha wherev- 
er he. proceeded. But it so happened that the king, on 
his journey, passed by the hermitage of an irascible 
saint, whose name was .Taknu. The latter, seeing the 
Ganga overllooding in her arrogance the precincts of 
his sacrificial spot, and destroying his sacred vessels, 
became impatient, and drank up all her waters*; there- 
upon all the gods became terrified, and promised him 
that, in future, the Ganga would pay him filial respect, 
and become his daughter, if he would restore her again 


to existence. Quieted by this promise, Jahnu then al- 
lowed her to flow out from his ear, and therefore she is 
still called Jahnavi, or the daughter of Jahnu. But, 
because Bhagiratha, by dint of his exertions, enabled 
his ancestors, now sprinkled with the W'aters of the 
Ganga, to ascend to heaven, Brahman allow ed him to 
consider her as his daughter, whence she is called Bha- 
girathi. And she is also called the river of ‘ the three 
paths,’ because her waters flow' in heaven, on earth, and 
pervaded the subterranean regions. Such is the account 
of the Ramayana, and its substance is repeated by the 
Mahdbhdrata and several of the I'uranas, though they 
differ in the names of the streams formed in her de- 
scent by the Ganga, some (for instance, the Vishnu - 
and Vdyu-Purdna) restricting their number from seven 
to four, called by the Vishnu-Purana Sita, Alakananda, 
Chakshu, and Bhadra. A further deviation may be 
seen in that, while in the Ramayana the Ganga springs 
from the Ilimavat (Himalaya), whose daughter she is, 
the Vishnu-Purana assigns her source to the nail of 
the great toe of Vishnu’s left foot, and allows Siva 
merely to receive her on his head. The following 
passage from this Purana will sIioav the ideas on the 
history and the properties of this river; ‘From that 
third region of the atmosphere, or seat of Vishnu, pro- 
ceeds t tie stream that washes away all sin, the river 
Ganga, embrowned with the unguents of the nymphs 
of heaven, who have sported in her waters. Having 
her source in the nail of the great toe of Vishnu’s left 
foot, Dhruva (Siva) reverses her, and sustains her day 
and night devoutly on his head, and thence the seven 
Rishis practice the exercises of austerity in her -waters, 
wreathing their braided locks with her w'aves. The 
orb of the moon, encompassed by her accumulated cur- 
rent, derives augmented lustre from her contact. This 
applies to the heavenly Ganges. Falling from on high, 
as she issues from the moon she alights on the summit 
of jMeru, and thence flows to the four quarters of the 
earth for its purification. The Sita, Alakananda, Chak- 
shu, and Bhadra, are four branches of but one river, 
divided according to the regions towards which it pro- 
ceeds. The branch that is known as Alkananda was 
borne affectionately bi r Siva upon his head for move 
than a hundred years, and w r as the river which raised to 
heaven the sinful sons of Sagara by washing their ash- 
es. The offences of any man who bathes in this river 
are immediately expiated, and unprecedented virtue is 
engendered. Its waters, offered by sons to their an- 
cestors in faith for three years, yield to the latter rare- 
ly attainable gratification. Men of the twice-born 
orders, who offer sacrifice in this river to the lord of 
sacrifice, Pumshottama, obtain whatever they desire, 
either here or in heaven. Saints who are purified 
from all evil by bathing in its -waters, and whose minds 
are intent on Kesava (Vishnu), acquire thereby final 
liberation. This sacred stream, heard of, desired, seen, 
touched, bathed in, or hymned day by day, sanctifies 
all beings ; and those who, even at a distance of a hun- 
dred leagues, exclaim “Ganga, Ganga,” atone for the 
sins committed during three previous lives’ ” (Cham- 
bers, s. v.). 

The Ceremonies. — The following is taken from 
Ward’s Hindus'. “Crowds of people assemble from 
the different towns and villages ■ near the river, es- 
pecially at the most sacred places of the river, bring- 
ing their offerings of fruit, rice, flowers, cloth, s-weet- 
meats, etc., and hang garlands of flowers across the 
river, even where it is very wide. After the people 
have bathed, the officiating Brahman ascends the 
banks of the river with them ; and, after repeating re- 
ligious texts, places before him a jar of water, and, 
sitting with his face to the north or east, performs 
what is called Ghdta-st ’ hapand . After this, the 
Brahman performs other ceremonies ; then the worship 
of the five gods, of the nine planets, of the regions of 
the ten quarters, etc. To this succeeds meditation. 
The priest next presents the offerings, which may bo 


GANGES 


737 


GANGRA 


sixty-four, or eighteen, or sixteen, or ten, or five, or 
merely flowers and water, according to the person’s 
ability. To these offerings the worshipper must add 
sesaimnn, clarified butter, and barley flour. The offi- 
ciating Brahman next perforins the worship of Nara- 
yana, Maheshwara, Bramba, Soorya Bhageeral’ha, 
and Himalaya; then the worship of the inhabitants 
of the waters, as the fish, the tortoises, the frogs, the 
water-snakes, the leeches, the snails, the makaras, the 
shell-fish, the porpoises, etc. The offerings, after hav- 
ing been presented to the inhabitants of the waters, 
are thrown into the Ganges. Ten lamps of clarified , 
butter are then lighted up, and all the other offerings 
presented. After this the names of certain gods are 
repeated, with forms of praise ; the fee is presented to 
the priest, the Brahmans are entertained, and the of- 
ferings sent to the houses of Brahmans. At the close 
of these ceremonies the people perform obeisance to I 
Ganga, and then depart. Great multitudes assemble 
on the banks of the river on these occasions, and ex- j 
peet much, both in this life and hereafter, from this j 
act of worship. If a person place on his head ten 
fruits of any kind, and thus immerse himself in the 
Ganges on this day, the sins of ten births will be re- 
moved. In this month also images of Ganga arc set 
up in domestic temples and worshipped, and the next 
day thrown into the river. In some places clay im- 
ages of this goddess are preserved in clay temples, and 
worshipped daily. Persons escaping dangers on wa- 
ter present offerings to Ganga, as well as to Varoona, 
the Indian Neptune, as mariners, having escaped the 
dangers of the sea, used to offer a sacrifice to Venus. 
On the thirteenth of the decrease of the moon in Choi- 
tra, the people descend into the water, and, with their 
hands joined, immerse themselves, after which the of- 
ficiating Brahman reads a portion of the Shastra, de- 
scribing the benefits arising from this act of bathing. 
The people repeat after the priest certain significant 
words, as the day of the month, the name of Vishnu, 
etc., and then immerse themselves again. Gifts of 
rice, fruits, and money are offered to the poor, the 
Brahmans, and the priests. On this occasion groups 
of ten or twelve persons stand in the waiter in one spot, 
for whom one Brahman reads the formulas. These 
groups are to be seen extending themselves very far 
along the river. At the moment of the conjunction 
of the moon (on the thirteenth of its decrease) w'ith the 
star Shatabhisha, this festival is called the Great Va- 
roonee. The merit arising from bathing at this lucky 
moment is supposed to be very great. The people 
fast till the bathing is over. When there is a con- 
junction as above, and the day falls on Saturday, the 
festival is called the Great Great Varum.” 

The exposui'e of sick and dying on the banks of the 
Ganges is of uncertain date. The following sum- 
mary is from the Calcutta Review , No. xx, vol. x. 
184S : “The Kurma Parana says, ‘Those that conscious- 
ly die on the banks of the Ganges shall be absorbed 
into the essence of Brahma; and those who die uncon- 
sciously shall surely go to the heaven of Brahma.’ 
The Agni Parana says , ‘ those w ho die when half their 
body is immersed in Ganga water, shall be happy 
thousands of ages, and resembls Brahma.’ In the 
Skanda Parana , Shiva says, ‘ To him who dies in Gan- 
ga I give my footstool to sit upon.’ There are a great 
many traditionary stories concerning Ganga believed 
by the majority of Hindus. The folio-wing is a speci- 
men : ‘ On the banks of the Bhagirathi there grew a 
stately banian-tree, in vdiose ample folds a paddy-bird 
had made her nest. On a certain day the tree ivas 
torn up by the roots by the violence of the storm. 
The bird w*as destroyed, and its bones buried in the 
deep channel of the Ganga. The paddv-bird, in the 
next transmigration, was taken up into heaven simply 
because her bones had accidentally been deposited in 
the river. After this she became one of Indra’s 
queens in his heaven.’ In consequence of this sort of 
III. — A A A 


teaching the Hindus almost universally throw into the 
river the bones of those who had died at some distance 
from its shores. Even the bodies of those that die on 
the banks of the Ganges, and suffer cremation there, 
are not wholly burnt. Some part of the body, gener- 
ally the part surrounding the navel, is thrown into the 
river. Those who are too poor to burn their dead 
throw them bodily into the river. The exposure of 
the sick and dying is as follows. When the patient 
seems to be beyond recovery, the relatives make prep- 
arations to ‘give him to Ganga.’ This is a stronger 
duty than seeking his recovery. ‘ Life and death are 
in the hands of God, but the carrying of the sick to 
the river lies in our own hands, therefore we must do 
our duty.’ A couch is procured, culled the khal, for 
the dead, a number of torches if it be night, and notice 
is given throughout the neighborhood .... On the 
way the attendants repeat loudly the names of the 
gods and goddesses. At the ghat they lay him close 
to the water, and cause him to say that he has come to 
see the Mother Gauges. He is laid in a miserable 
hut, amid dirt and nuisance, and multitudes of dying 
sick, whose shrieks and groans fill the air. A few 
minutes before his death he is again brought down on 
the brink of the river, half immersed in water, to give 
up the ghost. ‘ The habit of choking the dying pa- 
tients with water and mud is unquestionably a legiti- 
mate portion of the rite, but is not uniformly put in 
practice.’ ... If any one survives the exposure, and 
return from the bank of the river, lie ought to be re- 
garded as rejected by the goddess, and be treated 
thenceforward as an outcast — ‘ an alien to his mother’s 
children.’ The British government, which has so 
nearly extirpated satti , and is doing its utmost to abol- 
ish infanticide, whether in the Ganges or elsewhere, i. 
giving its attention to the subject of these ghat mur- 
ders.” — Ward’s Manners and Customs of the Hindus 
Vishnu Purdna (Wilson’s transl.); Calcutta Review. 
vol. x; Moore’s Hindu Pantheon. (J. T. G.) 

Gangra, Council of ( Concilium Gangrense ), a syn- 
od held at Gangra, in Paphlagonia,4th century, against 
Eustathius of Sebaste. See Eustathians. The pre- 
cise date of the council is uncertain. Pagi, follow ing 
Socrates, iixes it about A.D. 360; Ceillier about A.D. 
379 {Auteurs Sacres , iv, 379); Ilefele ( Concilienge - 
schichte, ii, 765) leaves it uncertain. It has been ques- 
tioned, also, whether the Eustathians (oi tt epi Evcra- 
Qtov), against whom this eouneil was directed, really 
sprung from Eustathius of Sebaste. “All the facts 
are in favor of an affirmative answer to this question. 
Not only is the testimony of Socrates, ii, 43, and of 
Sozomen, iii, 14, to this effect, but the whole is in per- 
fect accordance witli the character of Eustathius, who 
was a zealous ascetic, and the first preacher of the as- 
cetic life in the countries around the Pontus, and had 
formed a wdiole school. See Basilii Ccesareens. ep. 233. 
(Here we find mentioned, in fact, the ascetic dress, to 
which the Eustathians, according to the report of the 
Council of Gangra, ascribed a peculiar sanctity— the 
Ziva dia/naapara , that is, according to the letter of 
Basilius, to 7r«\i) ipdriov , Kai i) £wj '7] teal ti}q dee iK/- 
rov j3vp(TTfg u 7 rocVjjU <mi), and ep. 119 (Epiphanius, 
Hceres. 75.) We perceive, also, in the letters of Basil- 
ins a trace of opposition to the new monastic spirit in 
the districts of the Pontus. At least at Ncoeresaren, 
where the attachment to old usages prevailed, the 
spreading of the ascetic life among men and virgins 
was brought up as an objection against Basilius ofCa?- 
sarea. See ep. 207 ad Neoccesareens. § 2” (Neander, Ch. 
History, Torrev’s transl. ii, 244). 

The acts of the council are very important as testi- 
monies against certain doctrines and practices which 
have since characterized the Church of Koine. Eu- 
stathius taught that it is unlawful to marry, and to eat 
certain meats. He separated several married persons ; 
advised those who disliked the public offices of the 
Church to communicate at home. He w r ore, and made 


GANO 


738 


GARCIA 


his followers also wear, an extraordinary dress ; obliged 
women to cut off their hair; and directed his followers 
to avoid, as the greatest profanation, the communion 
and the benediction of a married priest living with his 
wife. In opposition to these errors, twenty-one can- 
ons were published by the Council of Gangra. Fifteen 
bishops subscribed them, and addressed them, togeth- 
er with a synodal letter containing briefly the causes 
which led to the assembling of the council, to the bish- 
ops of Armenia. Canon 1. Condemns with anathema 
those who blame marriage, and who say that a woman 
living with her husband cannot he saved. 2. Con- 
demns with anathema those who forbid the eating of 
meat. 4. Condemns those who separate themselves 
from the communion of a married priest, and refuse to 
partake of the holy communion consecrated by him. 
9. Condemns those who embrace the state of virginity 
or continence, not for the sake of perfection, hut from 
a horror of the married state. 10. Condemns those 
who, having themselves embraced the state of virgin- 
ity, insult married persons. 11. Condemns those who 
despise the agapae or love-feasts, and refuse to partici- 
pate in them. 12. Condemns those who, under pre- 
tence of extraordinary strictness, wear a peculiar dress, 
and condemn those who wear ordinary clothing. 14. 
Condemns those who forsake their husbands through 
a false horror of marriage. 15. Condemns those who, 
under pretext of leading an ascetic life, forsake their 
children, without providing for their sustenance or con- 
version. 1G. Condemns children who, upon the same 
plea, desert their parents. — London, Manual of Coun- 
cils , s. v. ; llefele, l. c. ; Neander, l. c. ; Schroekh, 
Kirckengeschichte , vi, 247. 

Gano, John, a Baptist minister, was born at Hope- 
well, New Jersey, July 22, 1727, and he was there or- 
dained to the ministry in 1754. llis first labors were 
in the Southern States, where, as an itinerant, lie w'as 
inferior, it is said, “to none but bVhitcfiehh” During 
the Revolutionary War lie was an army chaplain. In 
1702 he was ordained pastor of the first Baptist church 
in New York, where he remained until 1788, when he 
removed to Kentucky, where he became pastor of the 
Town Fork Church, near Lexington. He died at 
Frankfort, August 10, 1804. IBs pulpit talents were 
of a high order. See Life of Gano , principally an au- 
tobiography (180G, 12mo) ; Benedict, History of the Baj)- 
tists , vol. ii ; Sprague, A nnals, vi, G2. 

Gano, Stephen, a Baptist minister, was born in 
New York Dec. 25, 17G2. After being educated for the 
medical profession, be spent two years in the army as 
surgeon during the Revolutionary War, and then set- 
tled as a physician in Rockland Co., N. Y. Becoming 
impressed with the belief that it was his duty to preach 
the Gospel, lie was ordained Aug. 2, 178G ; and after 
being for a while a missionary on the llusdon, became 
pastor of the Baptist church at Hillsdale and Hudson. 
In 1792 he became pastor of the First Baptist Church 
in Providence, lb L, where his ministrations were very 
successful. He received the honorary degree of M.A. 
from Brown University in 1800, having been one of 
the overseers of that institution since 1794. He died 
pastor of the church in Providence, Aug. 18, 1828. Mr. 
Gano published a number of occasional sermons. — 
Sprague, A nnals, vi, 229. 

Gannim. See En-gaxnim. 

Gans, David, a Jewish historian, was horn about 
the middle of the lGtli century. He is considered hr 
Jost to he an untrustworthy writer. Among his best 
works are Zermnch David , or The Branch of David , in 
two parts ; of which the first is a chronicle of sacred 
and Jewish history from the Creation to 1592; the 
second recounts some of the events of secular history 
(Prague, 1592; Fnrth, 1784). He died in Prague in 
1G13. — Grasse, All gem. Literiirgeschich te, v, § 311 ; Jost, 
Geschichte d. JmUnthums , iii, 215 ; Etheridge, Jntrod. to 
ID hr. Lit. p. 444. (J. II. W.) 


Gap Cj’ , 72, pe'rets , a breach , as elsewhere render- 
ed), a rent or opening in a wall (Ezek. xiii, 5; comp. 
Amos iv, o). llie Jewish false prophets did not stand 
in the gap (Ezek. xxii, 30); they did nothing to stop 
the course of wickedness which opened a door for the 
vengeance of God to break in upon their natioi . See 
1’ekez. 

Gar (r«c, A ulg. Bushs'), a man whose “re ns” are 
named in the Apocrypha among the “sons of the serv- 
i ants ot Solomon” (1 hsdr. v, 34). There are not in 
the lists of Ezra and Nehemiali any names correspond- 
ing to the two preceding and the six succeeding this 
name. — Smith, s. v. 

Garasse, Fkancis, a French Jesuit, was lorn at 
Angoulcme in 15£5 ; in 1GG0 he entered the society, 
and after teaching for a while tcok the vows in 1G18. 
He subsequently wrote bocks of controversy (mostly 
under false names, and of which lie repeatedly denied 
being the author). Jheir sarcastic tone, violent out- 
burst of passion, and wholesale abuse of all whom he 
considered as enemies of his order, provoked the cen- 
sure of Reman Catholics themselves. r Uie expres- 
sions fool , sot , ass, etc., abound in his writings against 
the Protestants. The expressions Mcdestia, ajfuhilita- 
te, niansuetudine , supra modum omabils, applied to him 
by the historian of his order, will always appear to any 
one acquainted with his woiks as a bitter sarcasm 
rather than a compliment. IVhen the plague broke 
out at Poitiers, where he had been exiled by his supe- 
riors for writing a Somme thtologique (1G25, fob), which 
w T as condemned by the Sorbonne, be asked permission 
to devote himself to the care of the sick, and fell a vic- 
tim to his devotion June 14, 1G31. Among his other 
works we notice Elixir Cahinisticnm (1G15, 4to), under 
the name of Andrew' Scioppius : — Craison funebre d' An- 
dre de Nesmond (1G5G) : — Le Eabelais reforme par les 
mlnistres (1G19, 12mo), a violent attack against Protef- 
tant ministers, and particularly Du Moulin : — Recherche 
des Rechcrches d'Etunne Pasquier (1G22, 8vo), the full 
title of which a fiords a good example of Garasse’s 
style: “Inscribed to Etienne Pasquier, wherever he 
may be ; for never having been able to recognise your 
leligion, I do not know the way and route yon have 
taken on leaving this life, and therefore J am obliged 
to w rite to you at hazard, and to address this bundle, 
wherever you may be ... .f etc. See Niccrcn, Me- 
nu.ires , vol. xxxi ; Bayle, Dictionnaire ; Alegamhc, Lib- 
rot h. Scriptor. Soc.Jesu; Ilocfer, X our. Bag. Gin* rale. 
xix, 42G ; Mcmoires da Pere Garasse , de la Socicte de 
Jesus, puhl. by C. Nisard (Paris, 18G3, 18mo). 

Garcia, D. Francisco, a Portuguese Jesuit, 
joined the order at the age of eighteen, and went to 
the East Indies with fifty-eight other Jesuit missiona- 
ries. He resided successively at Goa and Cochin, and 
W'as appointed coadjutor of the archbishop of the moun- 
tain region inhabited by the Christians of >St. Thomas 
(q. v.). The archbishop dying in 1G41, Garcia suc- 
ceeded him, and exerted great influence over the peo- 
ple by bis knowledge of the native dialects. He had 
many disputes W’ith the Christians of St. Thomas. He 
died Sept. 3, 1G59. He left a MS. entitled Relacdo dos 
sectarios da India oriental. Dicdogos espirituaes , carta es- 
crita cto arcediago dos christaos da Serra, which is said 
to contain valuable information on the tribes of the 
East. — lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gener. xix, 4G1. (J. N. P.) 

Garcia or Garzia, Giegorio, a Spanish mis- 
sionary, was born at Cozar, Andalusia, about the latter 
half of the lGth century. He studied in the Domini- 
can convent of Baeea in 1G27, and joined that order. 
Appointed missionary to America, he spent twelve 
years in Mexico and Peru, where he preached with 
success, ami gathered numerous historical documents 
and traditions, which he published after his return un- 
der the title Origen de las Jndias del Nuevo J [undo y In - 
dias occidentals, areriquenda con discorso de opiniones, 

| etc. (Valencia, 1G07, Svo; Madrid, 1729, fob). This 


GARDEN 


39 


GARDEN 


work contains a great deal of information which has 
been made use of by subsequent historians. The au- 
thor’s theory is that America was successively settled 
by emigration from divers races coming from other 
parts of the world. He thus attempts to uphold the 
taxt of Scripture, which gives hilt three sons to Noah, 
one of whom peopled Europe, the second Asia, and the 
third Africa ; and argues in favor of this opinion on the 
ground that, before the arrival of the Spaniards, the 
Mexicans possessed the tradition of the creation of the 
world, the flood, the confusion of tongues, and the disper- 
sion of nations, as is proved by some sculptures he saw 
which represented these various events in a symbolic 
manner. He also wrote Predication del Evangelio en el 
Nuevo Mundo viviendo los Apostoles (Baeoa, 1025, 8vo), 
in which he attempts to prove that it is impossible that 
any of the immediate disciples of Christ ever went to 
preach the Christian faith to America. — Hoefer, Nouv. 
Biog . Generate, xix, 450 sq. ; see also Ecliard, Scripto- 
res Ordinis Prazdicatorum , ii, 437 ; Nicolas Antonio, 
Bibliotheca Nova Hispana , i, 544. 

Garden ("N gan [fern. PlSS], a park or or- 
chard inclosed and planted ; Sept. 7rapuCei(Jog, N. T. 
Kijirog.) See Field; Orchard, etc. 

1. Several gardens are mentioned in the Scriptures, 
as the garden of Eden (Gen. ii, 8, 9, 10, 15), Ahab’s 
garden of herbs (1 Kings xxi, 2), the royal garden 
near the fortress of Zion (2 Kings xxi, 18 ; xxv, 4), 
the royal garden of the Persian kings at Susa (Esther 
i, 5; vii, 7, 8), the garden of Joseph of Arimathea (John 
xix, 41), and the garden of Gethsemane (John xviii, 1). 
It is clear, from Josh, v, 2, and Lam. ii, G, that gardens 
were generally hedged or walled, as indeed Josephus 
expressly states respecting the gardens near Jerusa- 
lem ( War, v, 7). In Neh. ii, 5, and John xx, 15, gar- 
deners and keepers of gardens by occupation are indi- 
cated. See Gardener. 

The traditional gardens and pools of Solomon, sup- 
posed to be alluded to in Eccl. ii, 5, 0, are shown in the 


wady Urtas (i. e. Hortus), about an hour and a quar- 
ter to the south of Bethlehem (compare Josephus, Ant. 
viii, 7, 3). The Arabs perpetuate the tradition in the 
name of a neighboring hill, which they call “Jebel- 
el-Fureidis,” or “Mountain of the Paradise” (Stanley, 
Sin. and Pal. p. 1GG). Mauiulrell is sceptical on the 
subject of the gardens {Early Trav . in Pal . p. 457), hut 
they find a champion in Van de Velde, who asserts that 
they “ were not confined to the wady Urtas; the hill- 
slopes to the left and right also, with their heights and 
hollows, must have been covered with trees and plants, 
as is show'll by the names they still bear, as ‘ peach- 
hill,’ ‘nut-vale,’ ‘fig-vale,’ etc. ( Syria and Pal. ii, 27). 
See Solomon’s Pool. 

The “king’s garden,” mentioned in 2 Kings xxv, 
4; Neh. iii, 15; Jer. xxxix, 4; lii, 7, was near the 
Pool of Siloam, at the mouth of the Tyropceon, north 
of Bir Evub, and was formed by the meeting of the 
valleys of Jehoshaphat and Ben-IIinnom (Wilson, 
Lands of the Bible , i, 498). Josephus places the scene 
of the feast of Adonijah at Enrogel, “ beside the foun- 
tain that is in the royal paradise” {Ant. vii, 14, 4; 
comp, also ix, 10, 4). See King’s Dale. 

Strabo (xvi, 7G3), alluding to one of the rose-gardens 
near Jericho, calls it b rov fia\<yapov Trapdtiwoc. The 
rose-garden in Jerusalem, mentioned in the Mishna 
{Maaseroth, ii, 5), and said to have been situated west- 
ward of the Temple mount, is remarkable as having 
been one of the few gardens which, from the time of 
the prophets, existed U'ithin the city r walls (Lightfoot, 
llor, Ileb. oil Matt, xxvi, 3G). They were usually 
planted without the gates, according to the gloss quoted 
by Lightfoot, on account of the fetid smell arising from 
the weeds thrown out from them, or from the manure 
employed in their cultivation. See Rose. 

The gate Gennath, mentioned by Josephus {War, v, 
4, 2), is supposed to have derived its name from the 
rose-garden already mentioned, or from the fact of its 
leading to the gardens without the city. It v r as near 
the garden-ground by the Gate of the Women that Titus 



Ancient Egyptian Garden. 






GARDEN 


740 


GARDEN 


was surprised by the Jews while reconnoitring the city. 
The trench by which it was surrounded cut off his re- 
treat (Joseph. War , v, 2). See Gennatii. 

But of all the gardens of Palestine none is possessed 
of associations more sacred and imperishable than the 
garden of Gethsemane, beside the oil-presses on the 
slopes of Olivet. Eight aged olive-trees mark the site 
which tradition has connected with that memorable 
garden, and their gnarled stems and almost leafless 
branches attest an antiquity as venerable as that which 
is claimed for them. See Gethsemane. 

The orange, lemon, and mulberry groves which lie 
around and behind Jaffa supply, perhaps, the most 
striking peculiarities of Oriental gardens — gardens 
which Maundrell describes as being 4i a confused mis- 
cellany of trees jumbled together, without either posts, 
walks, arbors, or anything of art or design, so that they 
seem like thickets rather than gardens” (A«r/y Trav. 
in Pal. p. 41G). The Persian wheels, w hich are kept 
ever working, day and night, by mules, to supply the 
gardens with water, leave upon the traveller’s ear a 
most enduring impression (Lynch, Exp. to Jordan , p. 
441 ; Siddon’s Memoir, 187). The gardens near Shc- 
chem, containing orange and citron trees (Schubert, 
Reise, ii, 11 G), are described by Dr. Olin ( Travels , ii, 
350). See Forest. 

2. Gardens are frequentty represented in the tombs 
of Thebes and other parts of Egypt, many of which 
are remarkable for their extent. The one here intro- 
duced is shown to have been surrounded bj r an em- 
battled wall, with a canal of water passing in front of 
it, connected with the river. Between the canal and 
the wall, and parallel with them both, was a shady ave- 


nue of various trees ; and about the centre was the en- 
trance, through a lofty door, whose lintel and jambs 
were decorated with hieroglyphic inscriptions, contain- • 
ing the name of the owner of the grounds, who, in this 
instance, was the king himself. In the gateway were 
rooms for the porter, and other persons employed about 
the garden, and probably the receiving- room for vis- 
itors, with the dam and other trees along the whole 
length of the exterior wall : four tanks of water, bor- 
dered by a grass-plot, where geese were kept, and the 
delicate flower of the lotus was encouraged to grow, 
served for the irrigation of the grounds; and small 
kiosks or summer-houses, shaded with trees, stood near 
the water, and overlooked beds of flowers. The spaces 
containing the tanks, and the adjoining portions of the 
gaiden, were each inclosed b}' their respective walls, 
and a small subdivision on either side, between the 
large and small tanks, seems to have been reserved for 
the growth of particular trees, w’hieh either required 
peculiar care, or bore fruit of superior quality (Wilkin- 
son, Anc. Eg. i, 33-40, abridgm.). 

One interesting but much defaced representation of 
a similar kind has been found on the Assyrian sculp- 
tures. Gardens and orchards, with various kinds of 
trees, appeared to he watered with canals similar to 
those which once spread fertility over the plains of 
Babylonia, and of which the ehoked-up beds still re- 
main. A man, suspended by a rope, was being lower- 
ed into the water. Up>on the corner of a slab, almost 
destroyed, was a hanging garden, supported upon col- 
umns, whose capitals were not unlike those of the 
Corinthian order (Layard, Eineveh and Babylon, p. 198 
sq.). 



3. Gardens in the East, as the Hebrew word indi- | Lam. ii, G) or watch-towers (Mark xii, 1) were built in 
cates, are inolosures on the outskirts of towns, planted them, in which sat the keeper (“SI, Job xxvii, 18), to 
with various trees and shrubs. From the allusions in drive away the wild beasts and robbers, as is the ca*e 
the Bible we learn that fhev were surrounded bv | to this day. Layard (A 'in. and Bab. p. 305) gives the 
hedges of thorn (Isa. v, 5) or walls of stone (Prov. | following description of a scene which he witnessed: 
xxiv, 31). l or further protection, lodges (Isa. i, 8; j “ The broad silver river wound through the plain, the 


GARDEN 


741 


GARDEN 


great ruin cast its dark shadows in the moonlight, the [ 
lights of ‘ the lodges in the gardens of cucumbers’ 
flickered at our feet, and the deep silence was only 
broken by the sharp report of a rifle fired by the watch- 
ful guards to frighten away the wild boars that lurked 
in the melon-beds.” The scarecrow also was ah in- 
vention not unknown (TrpofiaaKaviov, Bar. vi, 70). See 
Lodge. 

In a climate like that of Palestine the neighborhood 
of water was an important consideration in selecting 
the site of a garden. The nomenclature of the coun- 
try lias perpetuated this fact in the name Engannim — j 
“the fountain of gardens” — the modern Jenin (comp. | 
Cant, iv, 15). To the old Hebrew poets “a well-wa- 
tered garden,” or “a tree planted by the waters,” was 
an emblem of luxuriant fertility and material prosper- 
ity (Isa. lviii, 11 ; Jer. xvii, 8 ; xxxi, 12) ; while no fig- 
ure more graphically conveyed the idea of dreary bar- 
renness or misery than “a garden that hath no water” 
(Isa. i, 30). From a neighboring stream or cistern 
were supplied the channels or conduits by which the 
girdens were intersected, and the water was thus con- 
veyed to all parts (Psa. i, 3 ; Eccl. ii, G ; Ecclus. xxiv, 
30). It is a matter of doubt what is the exact mean- 
ing of the expression “ to water with the foot” in Deut. 
xi, 10. Niebuhr ( Descr . de V Arable, p. 138) describes 
a wheel which is employed for irrigating gardens 
where the water is not deep, and which is worked by 
the hands and feet after the manner of a tread-mill, the 
men “pulling the upper part towards them with their 
hands, and pushing with their feet upon the lower 
part” (ltobinson, ii, 226). This mode of irrigation 
might be described as “watering with the foot.” But 
the method practised by the agriculturists in Oman, 
as narrated by Wellsted ( Trav . i, 281), may answer to 
this description, and serves to illustrate Prov. xxi, 1 : 
“After ploughing, they form the ground with a spade 
into small squares with ledges on either side, along 
which the water is conducted .... When one of the 
hollows is filled, the peasant stops the supply by turn- 
ing up the earth with his foot, and thus opens a chan- 
nel into another.” See Irrigation. 

4. Gardens were dedicated to various uses among 
the Hebrews, such as we still find prevailing in the 
East. One most essential difference between them 
and our own is that they are not attached to or in any 
way connected with the residence, but are situated in 
the suburbs, sometimes from half a mile to a mile dis- 
tant from the houses of the persons to whom they be- 
long. It is manifest that all the gardens mentioned 
in Scripture w r ere outside the several towns. This 
is, however, to be understood of regular gardens, for 
shrubs and flowers were often planted in the open | 
courts of the dwelling-houses. People repair to their , 
suburban gardens to take the air, to walk, and to re- | 
fresh and solace themselves in various ways. For 
their use there is mostly in each garden a kind of sum- 
mer-house or pavilion, fitted up with much neatness, 
gayly painted, and furnished with seats, where the vis- 
itants may sit and enjoy themselves. Here sometimes 
banquets were and are still given, attended by singing 
and music (Isa. Ii, 3 ; lxv, 3). See Garden-house. 

The kings and nobles had their country houses sur- 
rounded by gardens (1 Kings xxi, 1 ; 2 Kings ix, 27), 
and these were used on festal occasions (Cant, v, 1). 
So intimately, indeed, were gardens associated with 
festivity, that horticulture and conviviality are, in the 
Talmud, denoted by the same term (Buxtorf, Lex. 
Talm. s. v. mQilX). It is possible, however, that 
this may be a merely accidental coincidence. The 
garden of Ahasuerus was in a court of the palace (Esth. 
i, 5), adjoining the banqueting-hall (Esth. vii, 7). In 
Babylon, the gardens and orchards -were inclosed by 
the city walls (Lavard, A 'in. ii, 246). Attached to the 
house of Joachim was a garden or orchard (Sus. 4) — 
“a garden inclosed” (Cant, iv, 12) — provided with 


baths and other appliances of luxury (Sus. 15 ; comp. 
2 Sam. xi, 2). See Palace. 

It W'ould seem that the Je^vs were much in the hab- 
it of performing their devotions in gardens, on account 
of their retirement (Gen. xxiv, 63; Matt, xvi, 30; 
xxvi, 36; John ii, 48; xviii, 1, 2). This interesting 
practice, however, was idolatrously abused ; for the 
worship of idols in these shady seclusions was not of 
unfrequent occurrence, and is often mentioned in Scrip- 
ture (1 Kings xiv, 23; 2 Kings xvi, 4; xvii, 10; 2 
Chron. xviii, 4; Isa. i, 29; lxv, 3; lxvi, 17; Jer. ii, 
20 ; iii, 6; Ezek. xx, 28). See Grove. 

The custom of burying the dead in gardens is indi- 
cated in Gen. xxiii, 19, 20; 2 Kings xxi, 4, 18, 26; 1 
Sam. xxv, 1; Mark xv, 46; John xix, 41; and still 
occurs sometimes in the East, but is not very preva- 
lent. We find it also among the Greeks (lleliodorus, 
yEthiop. i, 2, p. 35), and the Romans (Suetonius, Galba, 
20). See Grave. 

5. Gardens ivere planted not only with fragrant and 
beautiful plants (Cant, vi, 2 ; iv, 16), but with various 
fruit-bearing and other trees (Gen. ii, 9; Exod. xxiii, 
11; Jer. xxix, 5; Amos ix, 14). Thus we find men- 
tion of nut-gardens (Cant, vi, 11, 14), pomegranate-gar- 
dens (Cant, iv, 13), olive -gardens (Deut. viii, 8; 1 
Chron. xxvii, 28), vine-gardens (Cant, iv, 2 ; viii, 8), 
Here, however, we are not to suppose that the gardens 
were exclusively occupied by these fruits, but that 
they were severally predominant in the gardens to 
which they gave name. The distinction, for instance, 
between a vine-garden and a vineyard would be, that, 
in the latter, the vine was cultivated solety for use, 
whereas in the former it was planted for solace and or- 
nament, to cover walls, and to be trained in arbors and 
on trellises. The quince, medlar, citron, almond, and 
service trees are among those enumerated in the Misli- 
na as cultivated in Palestine ( Kilaim , i, 4). Gardens 
of herbs, or kitchen-gardens, are mentioned in Deut. 
xi, 10, and 1 Kings xxi, 2. Cucumbers were grown in 
them (Isa. i, 8 ; Bar. vi, 70), and probably also melons, 
leeks, onions, and garlic, which are spoken of (Numb, 
xi, 5) as the productions of a neighboring country. In 
addition to these, the lettuce, mustard-plant (Luke 
xiii, 19), coriander, endive, one of the bitter herbs eat- 
en with tli j paschal lamb, and rue, are particularized 
in the precepts of the Mislina, though it is not certain 
that they were all, strictly speaking, cultivated in the 
gardens of Palestine {Kilaim, i, 8). It is w r ell known 
that, in the time of the Romans, the art of gardening 
was carried to great perfection in Syria. Pliny (xx, 
1G) speaks of it as proverbially elaborate, and again 
(xii, 54) he describes the balsam plant as growing in 
Judasa alone, and there only in two royal gardens. It 
is evident that the gardens of the Hebrews v f ere in a 
very considerable degree devoted to the culture of 
medicinal herbs, the preparation of which in various 
ways w f as a matter of much solicitude w ith them (Jer. 
viii, 22). This is still the case in the East, where veg- 
etable simples are employed in medicine. See Med- 
icine. In addition to the ordinary productions of 
the country, we are tempted to infer from Isa. xvii, 

10, that in some gardens care w’as bestowed on the 
rearing of exotics. To this conclusion the descrip- 
tion of the gardens of Solomon in the Targum on Eccl. 

11, 5, 6 seems to point: “ I made me w’ell-w'atered gar- 
dens and paradises, and sow'ed there all kinds of plants, 
some for use of eating, and some for use of drinking, 
and some for purposes of medicine ; all kinds of plants 
of spices. I planted in them trees of emptiness (i. e. 
not fruit-bearing), and all trees of spices which the 
spectres and daemons brought me from India, and ev- 
ery tree which produces fruit ; and its border w\as from 
the wall of the citadel, which is in Jerusalem, by the 
waters of Siloah. I chose reservoirs of w r ater, which, 
behold ! are for watering the trees and the plants, and 
I made me fish-ponds of water, some of them also for 
the plantation which rears the trees to water it.” In 


GARDENER 


742 


GARDINER 


large gardens the orchard (C'lpD, 7 rapddu < 70 c ) was j 
probably, as in Egypt, the inclosure set apart for the 
cultivation of date and sycamore trees, and trees of va- 
rious kinds (Cant, iv, 13 ; Eceles. ii, 5). Schroeder, in 
the preface to his Thesaurus Linguce .1 rmenicce, asserts 
that the word “parties” is of Armenian origin, and 
denotes a garden near a house, planted with herbs, 
trees, and flowers. It is applied by Diodorus Siculus 
(ii, 10) and Berosus (quoted by Josephus, Ant. x, 2, 
]) to the famous hanging gardens of Babylon. Xeno- 
phon (Anab. i, 2, 7) describes the “paradise” at Celse- 
n:e in Phrygia, where Cyrus had a palace, as a large 
preserve full of wild beasts; and Aulus Gellius (ii, 
20) gives “ vivaria" as the equivalent of Trapdfaiaoi 
(comp. Philostratus, I It. Apol. Tyan. i, 38). The offi- 
cer in charge of such a domain was called “the keeper 
of the paradise” (Neh. ii, 8). See Paradise. 

The law against the propagation of mixed species 
(Lev. xix, 10; Deut. xxii, 9, 11) gave rise to numer- 
ous enactments in the Mishna to insure its observance. 
The portions of the Held or garden, in which the vari- 
ous plants were sown, were separated by light fences 
of reed, ten palms in height, the distance between the 
reeds being not more than three palms, so that a kid 
could not enter ( Kilaim , iv, 3, 4). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, 
s. v. See Diverse. 

See Schroder, De hortis Ilebrceor. (Marburg, 1722); 
Bradley, Descript, ceconom. et hortic. vett. (Lond. 1725) ; 
Van Goeus, De KtjTrorafpiy (Utr. 1763). See Agri- 
culture. 

GARDENER (/op roopoc), a class of workmen al- 
luded to in Job xxvii, 18, and mentioned in John xx. 
15 ; but how far the art of gardening was carried 
among the Hebrews we have few means of ascertain- 
ing. That they were acquainted with the process of 
grafting is evident from Rom. xi, 17, 24, as well as 
from the minute prohibitions of the Mislina; and the 
method of propagating plants by la3’ers or cuttings 
was not unknown (Isa. xvii, 10). Buxtorf says that 
arisin (Mislina, Bikkurim , i, 2) [or, rather, 
53*11], were gardeners w*bo tended and looked 
after gardens on consideration of receiving some por- 
tion of the fruit {Lex. Talm. s. v.) ; but that gardening 
was a special means of livelihood is clear from a prov- 
erb which contains a warning against rash specula- 
tions : “ Who hires a garden eats the birds ; -who hires 
gardens, him the birds eat” (Dukes, Rabbin. Blumen- 
lese , p. 141). — Smith, s. v. See Garden. 

GARDEN-HOUSE is the rendering of the A. V. at 
2 Kings ix, 27, of '|yi1 ; where, however, a place 

is rather denoted. See Betii-iiaggan. 



Modern Oriental Garden-house. 


Garden-houses are usual in the East, especially in 
the grounds of kings and wealthy persons. In Cant, 
i, 16, the bride, looking out from her boudoir into the 
gayly-planted court-yard, acknowledges the taste and 
affection of her beloved as she spies the summer-house, 
all Shaded with verdure, and containing the divan 
(0^3)), that invited to the luxurious repose of which 
Orientals are so fond. See Garden. 

Gardiner, James, Colonel, son of captain Pat- 
rick Gardiner, of the British service, was born at Car- 
riden, Linlithgowshire, Scotland, Jan. 11, 1688, and at 
fourteen became ensign in a Scotch regiment in the 
Dutch service. In 1702 he obtained a commission in 
the English army, and was severely wounded at the 
battle of Ramilies in 1706. In several other battles 
he gave distinguished proofs of capacity and cour- 
age. Mis licentious lialits, with his successful ad- 
ventures in gallantry, gained for him among his 
dissolute companions the distinction of the “happy 
rake.” But he was'not happy. Passages of the Bi- 
ble which were still imprinted on his memory, and 
the thought of his mother’s pious character and early 
instructions, often recurred to make him miserable; 
and at one time, w’hile entertaining a party of profli- 
gate young men by his licentious w it, he felt so de- 
graded in his own estimation, and so imvardly wretch- 
ed, that, a dog lying at his feet, the wish involuntarily 
rose in his 1 reast, “ Would I w'ere as happy as that 
dog !” In 1719 he became the subject of profound re- 
ligious impressions. The circumstances, as narrated 
by Dr. Doddridge, contain much that is marvellous, 
if not supernatural. “ Doddridge himself hints at the 
possibility of the whole being a dream instead of a 
‘visible representation of the Lord Jesus Christ upon 
the cross, surrounded on all sides wflth a glory,’ etc. 
He also mentions that Gardiner ‘did not seem very 
confident’ whether the voice which came to him was 
1 really ‘an audible voice, or only a strong impression 
on his mind equally striking.’ Considerable doubt 
has reccntl}’- been cast on the whole story by the pub- 
lication of the Autobiography of Dr. Alexander Carlyle , 
j edited by John Hill Burton (Edinb., Blackwood and 
Sons, 1860), in which Carlyle denies altogether the 
truth of Doddridge’s version of the story, at least of 
the supernatural portion of it. The attendant circum- 
| stances, however, are of little moment one way or an- 
other; the great fact is the conversion of the brave 
but wicked soldier into a pious and excellent Chris- 
tian, and regarding this there has never been any 
: doubt. In 1724 Gardiner was raised to the rank of 
major, and in 172G he married lady Frances Erskine, 
i daughter of the fourth earl of Buchan, by whom he 
j had thirteen children, only five of whom survived 
him.” On his becoming the head of a family he com- 
| menced the practice of domestic worship — the presence 
of no guest, the intervention of no engagement, was 
ever allowed to interfere with its daily performance. 
He was also regular in attendance on public worship 
on the Sabbath, and established a system according to 
which all the servants accompanied him to church. 
In 1730 he became lieutenant colonel of dragoons, and 
i in 1743 colonel of a new regiment of dragoons. He 
l was killed at the battle of Preston Pans in 1715. — 
Chambers, Encyclopedia, s.v. ; Doddridge, Life of Col. 

J Gardiner ; Jamieson, Religious Biography, s. v. 

Gardiner, Stephen, bishop of Winchester, w as 
j born at Bury St. Edmund’s, Suffolk, in 1483. He was 
the illegitimate son of Dr. Woodville, bishop of Salis- 
| bury, the brother of Elizabeth, queen of Edward IV. 

| He was educated at Trinity Hall, Cambridge, and in 
1520 took the degree of LL.D. Having thoroughly 
studied the civil and canon law r , he became Wolscy’s 
secretary, and rose to the highest posts under Henry 
VIII, whom he served diligently in the matter of the 
divorce. At first he sided with the Reformers, but, 
being unw illing to be second to Cranmcr, he took the 


GAREB 


743 


GARLAND 


Roman Catholic side during Henry's lifetime. Gardi- 
ner drew up articles accusing Henry VIII’s last queen, 
Catharine Parr, of heresy ; hut the queen avoided the 
storm, and he fell into disgrace. At Henry’s death 
Gardiner experienced a still greater reverse. The 
young king and his government made great religious 
changes, to which Gardiner set himself in opposition. 
The council committed him to the Fleet. “Here he 
was confined until the act of general amnesty, which 
passed in the December after the accession of Edward, 
released him. As soon as he was free he went down 
to his diocese, and while there he remained unmolest- 
ed ; but on his return to London, on account of a cer- 
tain sermon which he preached on St. Peter’s day, he 
Mas seized and committed to the Tower (1548). Va- 
rious conferences were held with him, and his release 
■was promised him on condition that he Mould express 
his contrition for the past, promise obedience for the 
future, subscribe the new settlement in religion, ac- 
knowledge the royal supremacy, and the abrogation 
of the six articles. With the first of these conditions 
alone did he absolutely refuse to comply. The terms 
of liberation were afterwards rendered still more diffi- 
cult. The number of articles that he wras called upon 
to subscribe was considerably increased. On his refu- 
sal to sign them his bishopric was sequestered, and he 
was soon afterwards deprived. For more than five 
years he suffered close imprisonment, and it was not 
until the beginning of the reign of Mary that his lib- 
erty was restored (1553). If his fall from power at 
the conclusion of Henry's reign had been sudden, still 
more sudden was the rapidity of his reinstatement. 
A Roman Catholic queen was on the throne, and he 
who had been ever the foremost of her partisans must 
necessarily be raised to be one of her first advisers. 
The chancellorship was conferred upon him. His 
bishopric was restored, and the conduct of affairs placed 
in his hands. The management of the queen’s mar- 
riage-treaty was intrusted to him. He was chosen to 
officiate at her marriage, as he had also done at her 
coronation, and became her most confidential adviser. 
No matters, whatever they might be, could be pro- 
ceeded in without his privity and concurrence ; and he 
had his full share in the persecutions of this reign. 
The horrors which were not committed b} 7 his actual 
orders must at least have obtained his sanction, for he 
had reached a height of power, both civil and ecclesi- 
astical, perhaps unequalled in this kingdom except by 
bis master AVolsey alone. He died Nov. 12, 1555. A 
list of his writings is given in Tanner’s Bibl. Britan- 
nico-JIibernica (p. 308). The character of Gardiner 
may be stated in a few M'ords. He was a man of 
great ability ; his general knowledge was more re- 
markable than his learning as a divine. He was am- 
bitious and revengeful, and wholly unscrupulous. Ilis 
first object was his own preservation and advancement, 
and his next the promotion of his party interest. He 
saw deeply into the characters of those with whom he 
dealt, dealt with them with remarkable tact, and had 
an accurate foresight of affairs” ( English Cyclopedia, 
s. v.). See Burnet, Hist, of English Reformation . pas- 
sim ; Hook, Eccles. Biography , v, 256; Collier, Eccles. 
History of Great Britain , vi, 125. 

Ga'reb (lleb. Gareb ', 2“}*, scabby ; Sept. Yaptfi 
and F«p»;/3), the name of a man and of a hill. 

1. An Ithrite (q. v.), i. e. descendant of Jethro or 
Jethcr, and one of David’s thirty heroes (2 Sam. xxiii, 
38 ; 1 Chron. xi, 40). B.C. 1046. See David. 

2. A hill (nria) near Jerusalem, apparently on the 
north-M'est (Jer. xxxi, 39). See Jerusalem. Accord- 
ing to Dr. Barclay, it is “the ridge running from the 
north-west corner of the city in the direction of Woly 
Kamat” (City of the Great King , p. 76). Sec Gatii. 
Tie thinks it may have been so called because Gareb 
the Ithrite once OM'ned it, or because it contained quar- 
ries for tbc seclusion of the lepers. 


Gargoyle, a projecting spout, used in Gothic archi- 
tecture to throw M r ater 
from the gutter of a 
building, so as not to 
drop down the wall. 

Gargoyles are usually 
carved into the resem- 
blance of the human 
figure or of grotesque 
animals, real or imag- 
inary. They are placed 
on cornices and on but- 
tresses, and form sali- 
ent features in many 
buildings of the early 



St. Stephen's, Vienna. 



St. Alkmund’s Church, Derby; lloreley Church, Derbyshire; 
circa 145'J. circa 1450. 

English and decorated styles of the Gothic architec- 
ture. (G. F. C.) 

Garissoles, Antoine, a French Protestant min- 
ister, w r as born at Montauban in 1587. lie w r as or- 
dained and appointed pastor at Puylaurens in 1610. 
In 1620 he was sent to Montauban, and in October, 
1627, he was made professor of theology at that place. 
In 1045 he presided at the Synod of Charenton, and 
distinguished himself by his firmness in resisting de- 
mands made by the government which would have 
destroyed the Protestant liberties. He attacked at 
this synod the theory of mediate imputation as held 
by Placasus (q. v.). When the Protestant schools 
were disorganized, owing to the irregularity with 
which they received their subsidies, he remained at his 
post, with no hope of remuneration, and by teaching 
all branches of theology supplied the places of his ab- 
sent colleagues as well as his own. lie died at Mon- 
tauban July, 1651. Among his M’orks are La voie du, 
Salut , exposee en halt sermons (Montauban, 1637, 8vo) : 
— Decreti synodici Carentoniensis de imputatione prime 
peccati A dm explicatio el defensio (Montauban, 1648, 
8vo) : — Theses theological de religione et cultu sive adorn - 
tione rcligiosa (Montauban, 1648, 4to): — Disputationes 
elenchticce, de capilibus fidei inter reformatos et ponfificios 
controversis in acad. Montalb., habike sub preesidiis Ant- 
Garissolii ct Joan. Verderii (Montauban, 1650, 8vo) : — • 
Catecheseos ecclesiarum in Gallia et alibi reformatarum 
Explicatio , opus a Paido Carolo inchoatum et ab. Ant. 
Garissolio continuatum et absolution (Geneve, 1656, 4to). 
— Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xix, 491, 492. 

Gar'izim (lYrpi&V v. r. Yapt^tiv'), a Grascized 
form (2 Macc. v, 23 ; vi, 2) of Mount Gerizim (q. v.). 

Garland (or i/qua, Acts xiv, 13). See Wreath. 
It w'as customary in heathen sacrifices to adorn vic- 
tims with fillets and garlands ; but commentators are 
not agreed as to the purpose to which the “garlands” 
mentioned in the above passage are to be applied. As 
the idolaters used to put garlands on the head of their 
idol before they offered sacrifice, it has been thought 
by others that they were intended to be set on the 
heads of the apostles. They were generally composed 
of such trees or plants as were esteemed most agreea- 
ble to the god w ho M'as the immediate object of wor- 
ship (see Kuinol and others, in loc.). See Rose, Be 
ortipavQipopiq. (Jena, 1669) ; Schmid, De Coronis (Lips. 
1701); Gerhard, id. (Jen. 1646); Sehmeizel, id. (ib. 


GARLANDS 


744 


GARMITE 


1713); Paschalis, id. (L. B.,1G71); Grefe, De coronis 
epularibus (Lips. 1G70). See Crown ; Wedding. 

Garlands in the marriage service. It was usual 
in the early Church to crown persons contracted in 
marriage with garlands (Chrysostom, Horn. «.c.in 1 
Tim.). This practice was derived from the heathen 
ceremonies ; but, as it was deemed innocent, the Chris- 
tians made no scruple to adopt it. It is still practised 
in the Greek Church. At funerals, however, the cus- 
tom of crowning the corpse and the cotlin was rejected 
as savoring of idolatry (Tertullian, De Corona Militis , 
c. x). It was usual to strew flowers on the grave. — 
Kiddle, Christian Antiquities , bk. vii, ch. iii. 

Garlic (CVJ, shum , so called from its odor ; Sept. 
(T/copoeor, Vulg. allium , A. V. “ gar lick”) occurs only 
once in Scripture, and that in the plural, Numb, xi, 
5; where the Israelites are described as murmuring, 
among other things, for the leeks, the onions, and the 
garlic of Egypt. There can be no doubt of its being 
correctly so translated, as the same Arabic word (thum) 
still signifies a species of garlic which is cultivated 
and esteemed throughout Eastern countries (Celsii 
llkrobot . ii, 53). Ancient authors mention that garlic 
was cultivated in Egypt (Pliny, xix, 32). Herodotus 
(ii, 125) enumerates it as one of the substances upon 
which a large sum (1G00 talents) was spent for feeding 
laborers employed in building the Pyramids, although 
TIasselquist expresses a doubt whether it was cultiva- 
ted in that country ( Trav . p. 5G2). The species con- 
sidered to have been thus referred to is Allium Aaca- 
lonicum , which is the most common in Eastern coun- 



tries, and obtains its specific name from having been 
brought into Europe from Ascalon (see Jac. de Vitri- 
aco, in the Gest. Francor. iii, 1142). It is now usually 
known in the kitchen garden by the name of “escha- 
lot” or “shallot.” Its ranker congener is the com- 
mon garlic (.1 1'inm sativum). Sec the Penny Cyclopae- 
dia , s. v. Allium. Rosellini, however, thinks he has 
discovered it upon a painting in Beni Hassan. The 
Talmudists frequently mention the use of this plant 
among the Jews, and their fondness of it (Kilaim, i, 
3 ; vi, 10; Maaser. v, 8 ; Ternm. vii, 7 ; Nedar. viii, G, 
etc.). It formed a favorite viand with the common 
people among the Greeks and Romans (Pliny, xx, 23; 
Plautus, J fostell. I, i, 38; Horace, Kp. iii, 3; Suetonius, 
Vesp. 8). Sec Botany. 

Garment (represented by several Heh. and Greek 
•words) [see Apparel; Clothing: Dress; Rai- 
ment; Vesture, etc.]. For a list of modern Arabic 
garments, see Thomson, Land and Pool', i, 1G7 sq. In 
2 Kings xi, 13, it is said, “Then they hasted and took 
every man his garment, and put it under him on the 
top of the stairs, and blew with trumpets, saying, Jehu 
is king.” Here they laid down their garments in- 


stead of carpets. The use of carpets was common in 
the East in the remoter ages. The kings of Persia al- 
ways walked upon carpets in their palaces. Xeno- 
phon reproaches the degenerate Persians of his time 
that the} r placed their couches upon carpets, to repose 
more at their ease. The spreading of garments in the 
street before persons to whom it was intended to show- 
particular honor was an ancient and very general cus- 
tom. Thus the people spread their garments in the 
way before our Saviour (Matt, xxi, 8), where some 
also strewed branches. In the Agamemnon of vEschy- 
lus,the l^pocriticalClyteinncstra commands the maids 
to spread out carpets before her returning husband, 
that, on descending from his chariot, he may place his 
foot “on a purple-covered path.” We also find this 
custom among the Romans. When Cato of Utica left 
the Macedonian army, where he had become legionary 
tribune, the soldiers spread their clothes in the way. 
The hanging out of carpets, and strewing of flov’crs 
and branches in modern times, are remnants of ancient 
customs. See Rending; Sewing. 

A number of sumptuous and magnificent habits was, 
in ancient times, regarded as an indispensable part of 
the treasures of a rich man. Thus the patriarch Job, 
speaking of the riches of the wicked, says, “Though 
lie heap up silver as the dust, and prepare raiment as 
the clay” (Job xxvii, 1G). Joseph gave his brethren 
changes of raiment, but to Benjamin he gave “ three 
hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of raiment” 
(Gen. xlv, 22). Naainan carried for a present to the 
prophet Elisha ten changes of raiment (2 Kings v, 5). 
In allusion to this custom, our Lord, when describing 
the short duration and perishing nature of earthly 
treasures, represents them as subject to the depreda- 
tions of the moth, from which the inhabitants of the 
East find it exceedingly difficult to preserve their 
stores of garments : “ Lay not up for yourselves treas- 
ures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt” 
(Matt, vi, 19). Paul, when appealing to the integrity 
and fidelity with wffiich he had discharged his sacred 
office, mentions apparel with other treasures: he says, 
“ I have coveted no man’s gold, or silver, or apparel” 
(Acts xx, 33). The apostle James likewise (as do the 
Greek and Roman writers, when they paiticularize the 
opulence of those times) specifies gold, silver, and gar- 
ments as the constituents of riches: “Go to now’, ye 
rich men ; w r eep and howl for your miseries that shall 
come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, and your 
garments moth-eaten” (.lames v, 1, 2). We find that 
the custom of hoarding up splendid dresses still exists 
in Palestine and the East. It appears that even Solo- 
mon received raiment as presents (2 Chron. ix, 24). 
Asiatic princes and grandees keep changes of raiment 
ready made, for presents to persons of distinction whom 
the}' wish particularly to honor. The simple and uni- 
form shape of the clothes makes this custom practica- 
ble, and accounts also for the change of one person’s 
dress for another’s, which is mentioned in sacred his- 
tory. This will, perhaps, apply to the parable of the 
wedding garment, and to the behavior of the king, who 
expected to have found all his guests clad in robes of 
honor (Gen. xxvii, 15; Dent, xxii, 5; 1 Sam. xviii, 
4; 2 Kings v, 5, 22; XI att. xxii, 11; Luke xv, 22). 
The “changeable suits of apparel” in Isa. iii, 22, should 
be properly “embroidered robes.” See Banquet, etc. 

Women were forbidden to wear male garments, and 
the reverse (Dent, xxii, 5; see Mill, De commutations 
vestium utriusq. sexus , Utr. s. a.). On heterogeneous 
garments, see Diverse. 

Gar'mite (Heb. with the art. kag-Gamii' ; 

Sept. Vapj.u v. r. *0 rap/ii and 'Qyappi ; Vulg. Gar mi), 
an epithet of Iveilaii (q. v.) in the obscure genealogy 
(1 £hron. iv, 19) of Mered (q. v.) ; apparently to de- 
note its strength (i. q. bony, from ; see Prov. xxv, 
15 ; Job xl, 18); hut regarded by Gesenius and Fiirst 
(after the Targum, ad loc.) as a proper name : the form 


GARNER 


745 


GARRETTSON 


(like that of the associated soubriquets) is patrial, as 
if from a town, Gerem ; but no such place is elsewhere 
mentioned, unless it be the Bdh-Garem (D^ r.'C) of 
the Talmud (. Erubini , fol. 19, a), and the Mansul Ga - 
rent of Astori, east of Gaza, referred to by Schwarz 
(Palest, p. 118) as now unknown. 

Garner is the rendering in the Auth. Vers, of the 
following words: PSiX, olscir ', a treasure, as it is usu- 
ally rendered, a store or stock of goods laid up, hence 
the place where they are deposited (Joel i, 17 ; “treas- 
ury,” 2 Cliron. xxxii, 27) ; me zev (Sept. raptiov\ 
a cell or store-room (Psa. exiiv, 13) ; u7to$})k)1, a repos- 
itory or place for storing away anything, especially a 
granary (Matt, iii, 12; Lukeiii,17; elsewhere “barn”). 
See Barn. Cisterns (q. v.) are often used for this 
purpose in the East (Thomson, Land and Boole, ii, 2G2 
sq.). The structures of the ancient Egyptians for the 
storage of grain were above ground, and of great im- 
portance in so eminently a grain-growing country. 
See Agriculture. 


(1668), and also of Marii Mer cat oris opera cum nofis , 
etc. (1673, fob). The dissertations appended to this 
edition are still valuable to the history of Pelagianisin. 
In 1675 he published the Breriarium sire hisioria con- 
troversiurum Neslorianee et Eufychiance of the archdea- 
con Liberatus. After his death, father Hardonin pub- 
lished his Su])plement to the Works of Thtodoretus, at 
the beginning of which he gives a eulogy of Gander's 
labors and talents. — Feller, Diet. Biog. ; Iloefer, Xour. 
Biog. G morale, xix, 510. 

Gamier, Julien, de Connerke, an eminent Ben- 
edictine of St.Maur, was born about 1670, and died at 
Paris June 3, 1725. He enjoyed great reputation' for 
learning, and was highly esteemed both as a man ami 
a priest. His superiors intrusted him with the prepara- 
tion of a new edition of St. Basil, and the result of his 
labors was one of the best ever produced at St. Maur : 
Scti. Patris nostri Basllii Opera (Paris, Coignard). The 
preface is a remarkable production. Gamier, however, 
was able to complete but two volumes. Maran, who 
continued the work after the deatli of Gamier, brought 



Ancient Egyptians Storing Grain. 

This fiit shows the seetion of a granary, to which the grain is in the act of being transferred after it has l.een winnowed. The clerk, seated on the heap, 
writes down the number of the measures borne to the granary, seemingly from the oral report of the man who stands on Ihe ground with raised bauds. 



Garnet. Sec Sardius. 

Garnet, Henry, an English Jesuit, was born in 
Nottingham in 1555. lie was educated as a Protes- 
tant at Winchester College ; but, having turned Ro- 
manist, he travelled in Spain, and afterwards studied 
at Borne, and gained distinction for his skill in mathe- 
matics. He was made provincial of the Jesuits in Eng- 
land in 1586, and served with great astuteness and j 
fidelity the Roman Church in that country. He was 
tried in 1G06 for complicity in the Gunpowder Plot (q. ' 
v.), and was executed May 3. A good account of him 
is given in Rule, Celebrated Jesuits. — Mosheim, Church 
History , hook iv, cent, xvii, sec. ii, pt.*i, chap, i, § 10; 
Hume, History of England , eh. xlvi. 

Garnett, John, D.D., an English divine, was 
born in 1707. He became fellow of Sidney College, 
Cambridge, and afterwards Lady Margaret’s preacher, 
lie was made bishop of Ferns in 1752, and bishop of 
Clogher in 1758. He died in 1782. Ilis principal 
work is A Dissertation on the Book of Job, its Nature, 
Argument, Age, and A u/hor , wherein the celebrated Text , 
xir, 25, is occasionally considered and discussed ; to which 
are added four Sermons (London, 1749, 4to). He con- 
tends “that the hook of Job is an allegorical drama, 
designed to represent tlie fall and restoration of a cap- 
tive Jew, and with a view to recommend the virtue of 
patience. The author he supposes to have been Eze- 
kiel, and the period of its production subsequent to the 
Babylonish captivity.” — Orme, Bibliotheca Biblica, p. 
200 ; Kitto, Cyclopedia , s. v. 

Gamier, Jean, a French Jesuit, was born at Paris 
in 1612. He joined the order in 1628, and soon dis- 
played great talent and aptness for study and teach- 
ing. As usual, this gift was fostered by the society, 
and for forty years Gamier held different professor- 
ships of theology and literature. lie died at Bologna, 
on his way to Rome, Oet. 36, 1681. His most impor- 
tant works are on the Pelagian controversy, his edi- 
tions of Juliani Eclan. episcopi libellus , notis illust. 


out the third and last in 1730. See Ilistoire litter, de 
la Congregation de Saint-Maur, p. 470; Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. iv, 662. 

Garnish: I1212, tsaphah', in riel, to ore7'lay (as 
usually rendered), e. g. with stones, 2 Cliron. iii, 6; in 
a similar sense, noo/ieio, to adorn, Rev. xxi, 19, which 
is used of decking with garlands, Matt, xxiii, 29; ©r 
of a furnished apartment, Matt, xii, 44; Luke xi, 25). 
In Job xxiii, 16, the term is peculiar, shiphrah', 

which Gesenius regards as a noun denoting brightness, 
with which the heavens are clothed ; although Ftirst, 
with many others, pointing regards it as a Piel 

form of in the sense of arch, referring to the 

vaulted form of the sky. See Astronomy. 

Garrettson, Freeuorn, a distinguished pioneer 
preacher of the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born 
in Maryland August 15, 1752, was converted in 1775, 
and entered the Conference in the same year. In De- 
cember, 1784, he was ordained elder by Dr. Coke, and 
volunteered as missionary to Nova Scotia. In 1788, 
with twelve young ministers, he opened the work of 
evangelizing Eastern New York and Western New 
England. From 1818 to his death, Sept. 26, 1827, lie 
mostly had the relation of Conference missionary. 
Mr. Garrettson was a very widely-usefnl minister. 
“ He was among the earliest Methodist preaeliers of 
American birth, and, being active and zealous from 
the commencement of his ministerial career, his life 
and labors are intimately connected with the rise and 
progress of Methodism in this country.” lie preached 
in almost all the Eastern States, from Nova Scotia to 
the Gulf of Mexico, and on all his appointments many 
souls were converted and many churches built up. 
Although not a man of great learning, Mr. Garrettson 
was a man of vigorous mind and powerful character. 
He was imbued with fervor and zeal ; and during fif- 
ty-two } r ears he was one of the most laborious and ef- 
ficient evangelists of the age. He died greatly honored 



GARRISON 


746 


GASSENDI 


and lamented. — Minutes of Conferences, i, 574; Bangs, 
Life ofF. Garrett son (N. Y. 12 mo) ; Stevens, Memorials 
of Methodism, vol. i ; Methodist Magazine , March, 1828 ; 
Stevens, History of the Methodist Episcopal Church. 
(G. I, T.) 

Garrison, denoted by four or five Ileb. words from 
the root 'ZZl, natsah' , to stand firm or erect (i. q. 2SJ). 
1. matstsab' (fern. fC'I'C, matstsabah 1 Sam. 

xiv* 12), a station, i. e. lit. a standing-place (e. g. where 
the priests stood in Jordan, “ place,” Josh, iv, 3, 9); 
hence a military or fortified post (e. g. the Philistine 
camp, 1 Sam. xiii, 23; xiv, 1,4, G, 11, 12, 15; 2 Sam. 
xxiii, 11); metaph. an office or public “station” (Isa. 
xxii, 19). 2. -21*2, mutstsab\ a cordon of troops 

(“mount,” Isa. xxix, 3; perhaps also “ pillar,” Judg. 
ix,G). 3. -^223, netsib', properly nprafect or superin- 
tendent (“officer,” 1 Kings iv, 19; 2 Chron. viii, 10); 
hence a military post (1 Sam. x, 5; xiii, 3, 4; 2 Sam. 
viii, G, 14 ; 1 Chron. xi, 1G ; xviii, 13; 2 Chron. xvii, 
2) ; also a monumental “ pillar” (q. v.) or cippus (e. g. 
a statue of salt, Gen. xix, 2G; a sense in which some 
take the word also in 1 Sam. x, 5 ; xiii, 3, like the stelae 
erected by Sesoslris in conquered countries in token 
of subjugation, Herod, ii, 102, 10G). 4. An improper 

rendering, Ezek. xxvi,ll, of J“C22*2,wm/ske5aA', which 
always designates a standing object, either an archi- 
tectural or monumental column (usually rendered “ pil- 
lar;” in the passage of Ezekiel perhaps referring to 
those of the Tyrian temples ; comp. Herod, ii, 14), or an 
idolatrous “ image" (q. v.). Sec Fortification. 

Garsis, a town mentioned in the Talmud (O^D^r» 7 
Entbim , fob 21,5) as the residence of one Rabbi Joshua ; 
also by Josephus (Papcri'c, IJ’ar, v, 11, 5) as the native 
city (7roAif) of one Tephtlueus, and situated in Galilee 
— Schwarz adds ( Palest . p. 178) 20 stadia from Seppho- 
ris (evidently confounding it with the Garisime, E«pei- 
oifU] v.r. rapif Kt ' ) f n h 0 f Josephus, Life , § 71), but that 
the site is now unknown. 

Garve, Karl Bernhard, a German divine and 
Christian poet, was born near Hanover, Jan. 4,1763. 
He studied theology in the seminary of Barby, and 
soon after became professor of philosophy and history 
at Niesky. This he left in 1797, and afterwards served 
in different functions in Amsterdam, Ebersdorf, Nor- 
den, and Berlin successively, distinguishing himself 
particularly in the latter place, where his ministrations 
were eminently successful, despite the disordered state 
of affairs during the years 1810-1G. He was after- 
wards at the head of the Moravian community at Neu- 
salz, on the Oder, which post age and infirmities com- 
pelled him to resign in 1838. He died June 22, 1841. 
Garve was one of the best of modern German hymn 
writers, especially excelling in versification, and com- 
bining fecundity and ease of production with rare beau- 
tv of language and deep religious feeling. He pub- 
lished Ckristliche Gesdnge (Gdrlitz, 1825), containing 
303 pieces, mostly original: — u Brudergesiinge” (Gna- 
dau, 1827); and left many hymns in manuscript.- — Her- 
zog, Real-En cyklopadie, iv, GG3. 

Garver, Daniel, was born in Washington Co., 
Md., January 9, 1830. He graduated at Pennsylvania 
College in 1850, and passed his theological studies in 
the seminary at Gettysburg. He was licensed to 
preach, and soon after accepted a professorship in Illi- 
nois State University. This position he occupied w'ith 
honor to himself and advantage to the institution for 
several years. After spending some time in visiting 
portions of Europe, Asia, and Africa, he returned to 
this country, and successively preached at Canton, 
Ohio, and Greensburg, Pa. He died Sept. 30, 18G5. 
He was an earnest, impressive, and successful minis- 
ter of the Lutheran Church, -a man of enlarged mind 
and liberal heart, whose memory will be cherished with 
affectionate interest. His only publications a:c, Our 


Country in the Light of Jlisteny, delivered before the 
alumni of Pennsylvania College, 18G1 ; and The Sud- 
den Death of Henry ./. McMillan, pronounced in the Lu- 
theran Church, Greensburg, 18G4. (M. L. S.) 

Gary, George, a Methodist Episcopal minister and 
missionary to Oregon, was born at Middlefield, Otsego 
Co., N. Y., Dec. 8, 1793 ; entered the New r England 
Conference in 1809; in 1813 was transferred to Gen- 
esee Conference ; in 1818 was made presiding elder ; 
in 1825 was Conference missionary; in 1834, mission- 
ary to the Oneida Indians; in 183G was transferred to 
Black River Conference ; and in 1844 was appointed 
missionary superintendent of Oregon, where lie re- 
mained four years. After his return he labored on 
until 1854, when his health entirely failed. He died 
March 25, 1855. Mr. Gary was an eminently holy and 
useful minister. He w r as six times delegate to the 
General Conference, and was deeply engaged in all 
the ecclesiastical, religious, and educational interests 
of the Church. He was a wise and safe counsellor, 
and his influence in his Conference w*as very great. 
As a preacher he was widely known for “true, per- 
suasive, and sanctified eloquence,” which “mightily 
moved his hearers.” — Minutes of Conferences, v, 5G0 ; 
Peek, Early Methodism (N. York, I860, 12mo), p. 480; 
Sprague, Annals, vii, 478. (G. L. T.) 

Gash'mu (Hebrew” Gashmu - 'Jy ; Sept, omits, 
Yulg. Gossern ), prob. a prolonged form (Neh. vi, 6) of 
the name Gesiiem (q. v.). 

Gassendi or Gassend, Pierre, an eminent 
French philosopher and scholar, w*as born of humble 
parentage Dec. 24, 1595,atChainptercier, a village near 
Digne, in Provence. He died at Paris Oct. 24, 1655. 
From his earliest years he was noted for sw'eetness of 
disposition, quickness of apprehension, keenness of ob- 
servation, and precocity of genius. As a child he 
would wander in the fields on clear nights to admire 
the beauty, variety, and order of the starry hosts, and 
would thus excite the anxieties of his family, till his 
habits and occupations became familiar to them. At 
four years of age he made sermons for the entertain- 
ment of his childish companions, at ten he delivered 
a Latin address to the bishop of his diocese, and at 
sixteen he had already adopted the motto of his life — 
sapere aude — dare to be wise. He was early sent to 
school, and, fortunately, fell at Digne into the hands 
of a teacher able to appreciate and develop his von- 
derful powers. His father was with difficulty induced 
to permit his attendance at the University of Aix, 
along with the sons of a relative, and at that rela- 
tive’s expense. He was required to return after a 
two-years’ course. At Aix he was under the care of 
Fesaye, a learned Minorite, who introduced him into 
the thorny labyrinths of philosophy. At the expira- 
tion of the appointed time Gassendi returned to the 
plough, but left it to teach rhetoric at the age of six- 
teen in the academy of Digne. At nineteen he was 
appointed, on the death of Fesaye, to give instructions 
in philosophy at the University of Aix ; but he devoted 
himself chiefly to the study of theology, as he had se- 
lected the Church for his career. In 161G, however, 
he w’as simultaneously elected to the chairs of theology 
and philosophy, and he accepted the latter. The au- 
thority of Aristotle had been long declining among 
the learned, and, in common with many of his precur- 
sors and contemporaries, Gassendi employed himself 
in the confutation of the peripatetic dogmas. The 
controversial views thus promulgated were systema- 
tized in his Exercitaticnvm Par ado j icarum adversus 
Aristoteleos libri septem. Before publishing the work 
he submitted it to the judgment of Nicholas Peiresc 
and the prior of Yaletta. By them lie was persuaded 
to complete his design of entering the Church ; and, 
after receiving his doctorate of divinity, was through 
their influence presented to a canonry at Digne. A 
portion of the Paradoxes was published in 1G24, but the 


GASSENDI 


U1 


GASSENDI 

last five books were withheld by the advice of his 
friends, and his labors in this direction were arrested 
bv the discovery that the subject had been sufficiently 
discussed by Francisco Patrizzi. 

These writings, petulant in character, and full of 
youthful cavils and superlieial objections, provoked 
opposition, which was not mitigated by Gassendi’s 
manifest predilection for the opinions of Epicurus. 
The young philosopher had been born at the close of 
the religious wars of France, and had entered upon 
life amid the turmoil and strife of the regency of Anne 
of Austria, during a period when many speculative 
minds sought relief from controversy, and from the 
agitation of religious and political dissensions, in the 
careless scepticism and easy morality which had been 
rendered attractive by Montaigne. Ecclesiastical du- 
ties having summoned him to Paris, lie profited by the 
occasion to augment his multifarious learning, and to 
form the acquaintance of the learned in the capital. 
It was probably at this time that he was brought into 
intimacy with Des Cartes, an intimacy which was in- 
terrupted and shaken by bis Observations on the Phil- 
osophical Meditations , and by the disingenuous conduct 
of Des Cartes in regard to them. Gassendi was in- 
duced to accept in 1615 the professorship of mathemat- 
ics in the Koval College of France; but the exertion 
of lecturing, in conjunction with his other studious 
avocations, undermined his health, and compelled him 
to seek its restoration by a return to his native air. 
During this period he gave to the world the treatise De 
Vita et Moribus Epicuri (Lugduni, 1G47), and his edi- 
tion of the Tenth Book of Diogenes Laertius (1619), with 
copious annotations, in which lie collected and ar- 
ranged the abundant literary materials which he bad 
gathered for the illustration of the philosophy and the 
philosopher of the Garden. In 1653 Gassendi return- 
ed to Paris, and, after publishing the lives of Tycho 
Drake, Copernicus, Purbach, Kcgiomontanus, and Pei- 
rese, devoted himself assiduously to the completion 
and perfection of his scheme of speculation, though 
these last results of his labors did not appear till after 
his death in the Syntagma Philosophic Epicurec. His 
health finally gave way in 1651, and, after much suf- 
fering from pulmonary disease, he died, having sur- 
vived his illustrious rival Des Cartes five years. 

The complete works of Gassendi were collected and 
published in 1658, in 6 vols. fob, by his friends Louis 
de Montmor and Francis Ilenry, with a biography 
by Sorbiere prefixed. The most important of these 
works have been already mentioned, but they were 
accompanied by numerous essays on various topics of 
mathematics, astronomy, natural history, etc. These 
it is unnecessar}' to notice, though all branches of con- 
temporaneous investigation engaged the attention of 
Gassendi, and his reputation was higher and less as- 
sailable in science than in philosophy. The range of 
his inquiries in the latter department is illustrated by 
his early refutation of the mystical doctrines of Robert 
Fliuld, in the Examen Philosophic Fluddanc , by his 
Disquisitio Metaphysic a , in opposition to Des Cartes, 
and by his life-long labors in resuscitating the Epicu- 
rean doctrine, especially in its physical developments. 
His zealous attachment to the daring imaginations of 
Epicurus, and his ardent rehabilitation of the charac- 
ter of the Vm Graius homo ” who first forced the barriers 
of nature — 

“et extra 

Proccssi t longo flammantia nuenia iniiiirli" — 
invited misapprehension, and were obnoxious to grave 
criticism. To repel misconception, he appended to the 
Syntagma Philosophic Epicitrec a series of elaborate 
essays, in which he repudiated and refuted the infidel 
tenets ascribed to Epicurus. This late defence, how- 
ever consonant with the whole tenor of his own life, 
was inadequate to preclude unfavorable presumptions, 
particularly on the part of those predisposed to 'wel- 
come them. Nor -was his intimate association with 


Hobbes, La Mothe le Yaver, and other notable scep- 
tics of the time, calculated to inspire confidence in Ins 
orthodoxy. But there is no reason to suppose that 
the piety of Gassendi was less sincere than it was ha- 
bitual, or that he ever questioned the validity of the 
religion which he professed. It was an age of para- 
dox, and of promiscuous and vague, but earnest in- 
quiry. His early resistance to the Aristotelians may 
have attracted his favor to the ethical as well as tin 
physical scheme which was most strongly contrasted 
with the positions of the peripatetic school. The tem- 
per of the period, too, after long theological contro- 
versy and a century of religious war, desired the con- 
ciliation or the relegation of polemical asperities, and 
cherished a careless scepticism or an uninquiring faith 
The morals of Epicurus w'ere contemplated by Gas- 
sendi in their original innocence and purity, divested 
of the corruptions which vitiated them in their later 
and more familiar applications, and adorned with that 
chaste simplicity which won the earnest and repeated 
commendations of the Stoic Seneca. 

Jdiilosophy of Gassendi. — Neither the desire nor the 
design of founding a sect was entertained by Gassendi. 
He left no school, though he made his mark on the 
scientific and speculative development of Europe. He 
was distinguished by quick perception, accurate obser- 
vation, remarkable penetration and discrimination, va- 
rious research, and manifold accomplishment, lie 
was enthusiastic in the discovery of new facts, eager 
in the exposure of inveterate error, but lie had no 
taste for s} r stem-mongering, and was free from the 
weaknesses of personal ambition. He aimed rather 
at rejuvenating ancient knowledge than at inaugurat- 
ing new fancies. The cardinal principle of Epicurus 
was accepted and expounded by Gassendi in such a 
manner as to harmonize with the simplicity, temper- 
ance, and purity of his life. Pleasure is the summum 
bonum — the final object, the highest motive of human 
action, the crown of human aspirations ; but this 
pleasure is the pleasure of the good man ; the perfect 
state of the pagan; the present and eternal bliss of the 
Christian. Jt is neither to be attained nor sought by 
personal indulgences, nor by concession to appetites; 
but only by the punctilious discharge of every duty, 
in expectation of that serenity of a conscience at ease, 
which is the most abiding and the most assuring re- 
ward of virtue. Such a theory is liable to great 
abuses, and is certain to be ultimately abused. An 
easy conscience is easily mistaken for a conscience at 
ease, and happiness is identified with pleasure when 
pleasure ceases to be identical with happiness. Pleas- 
ure, in its vulgar sense, thus becomes at once the aim 
of life and the means of securing that aim ; and pleas- 
ure, in its philosophic sense, which implies the concord 
of desire -with duty, is totally forgotten or ignored. 
Thus all the vices of the Epicurean stye are intro- 
duced. But it is as uncritical as it is uncharitable to 
stigmatize the philosopher instead of the philosophy 
for the perverseness or the perverse tendency of his 
doctrine. In the most defecated Epicureanism there 
is assuredly an intricate confusion which eventuates 
in grievous error. Violence is habitually done to 
words, and a greater violence is done to thoughts. 
There is a continual paronomasia and paragnomesia — 
a play upon terms and upon conceptions — which daz- 
zles, bewilders, and misleads; but the perilous thesis 
may be held in conjunction with the purest intentions 
and the most rigorous observance of moral rectitude. 
So it was held by Gassendi. It must he admitted that 
the Iledonie theoiy is not more incompatible with 
Christianity than the utilitarianism of William Paley, 
Jeremy Bentham, or John Stuart Mill. The mental 
philosophy of Gassendi corresponded with his ethical 
assumptions. He espoused sensationalism, though in 
no rigid or consistent form. He was the legitimate 
precursor of Locke in botli the statement and the vacil- 
lation of his views. AVhile recognising sensation and 


GASSENDI 


US 


GATAKER 


reflection as the origin of our ideas, lie was 1>y no 
means inclined to pure in uteri ill ism. This incoherence 
of language and doctrine was not peculiar to him. It 
characterizes the whole school of Locke, and may be 
ascribed in part to the ambiguity of the terms employ- 
ed, in part to the indistinctness and undistinguished 
character of the phenomena commented on. There 
was a similar inconsequence in the physical system of 
Gassendi. lie received from Epicurus, or, rather, 
from Lucretius, the doctrine of atoms, of a vacuum, 
and of the regular operation of natural forces; but he 
did not admit the accidental collision and casual impli- 
cation of primary particles, nor did he exclude the di- 
vine will and the divine intelligence from the order of 
creation. In his separate tenets as in his general in- 
tellectual habit, he presented a strong contrast to his 
more famous and more methodical contemporary, Des 
Cartes. Positions apparently materialistic were main- 
tained by him in conjunction with a faithful adherence 
to both natural and revealed religion ; and he offered 
the strange spectacle of a sincere and preposterous 
Epicurean who was equally sincere as a Christian and 
as an ordained teacher of Christianity. Des Cartes, 
on the other hand, with principles essentially idealis- 
tic, combined the postulates of the infinite tenuity and 
divisibility of matter, of a plenum , and of the vertigi- 
nous evolution of the universe, with practical but un- 
avowed Pyrrhonism. There was point, but there was 
also inadequacy and injustice in the reciprocated an- 
tonomasias with which these philosophers discredited 
each other’s system — in the 0 anime ! applied by Gas- 
sendi to Des Cartes, and in the 0 euro! with which Des 
Cartes retorted upon Gassendi. No doubt the contro- 
versial attitude of Gassendi betrayed him into exagger- 
ated and unguarded expression ; but his physical sys- 
tem, though borrowed from Epicurus, may be so limited 
and explained as to offer no offence to religions faith. 

It should be remembered that his speculations were 
hazarded in the infancy of physical science; that his 
aptitudes, studies, and aims were chiefly scientific; 
that the materials, processes, and instruments of sci- 
ence were as yet rude, cumbrous, and unshapen; that, 
even after the lapse of two centuries, the scientific 
method and scientific conclusions often appear irrecon- 
cilable with religion and revelation. The certain har- 
mony of the book of nature and the Book of God may, 
indeed, be asserted a priori to be a necessity, and was 
so asserted by Lord Bacon; but this harmony is still 
ver} r indistinct. The Epicurean creed was an extrav- 
agant and premature attempt at scientific procedure, 
yet it lias been recently recognised by high scientific 
authority to be 65800113113' scientific in form and aim, 
however conjectural and arbitral' in development. In 
character as in purpose, it is cnriotish 7 analogous to 
the most recent speculations of scientific infidelity. 
The sublimated Epicureanism of Gassendi was, in like 
manner, an imperfect anticipation of modern scientific 
reasoning. It resembles the heterogeneous schemes 
of those who too hastily combine problematical science 
with old religious dogmatism. Though it proved it- 
self incapable of instituting a school, it was a potent 
influence in stimulating, directing, and moulding the 
scientific spirit which illumined the latter half of the 
17th centuiy, and inaugurated the brilliant era of mod- 
ern science. Dalton’s atomic theory is not the only 
dream of present scientific belief which ma} 7 be traced 
back to Gassendi, llobbes and Locke, Barrow and 
Newton, were largety indebted to the impetus commu- 
nicated by him, if not to his teachings; and it is need- 
less to acknowledge our continued and manifest obli- 
gations to those great name§. On the subject of Gas- 
sendi, there is little to be consulted be\ oml the several 
editions of his works, the historians of modern philos- 
ophy, and the lives of the philosopher by Sorbiere 
(Paris, 3058) and by Bongerel -(Paris, 1737), with M. de 
Lcvarde’s Historical and Critical Epistle to the latter 
biographer. (G. F. II.) 


Gassner, Joiiaxn Joseph, a Toman Catholic 
priest, was born at Branz, neat Pludenz, August 20, 
1727, studied theolog) 7 at Innsbruck and Prague, was 
ordained priest in 1750, and in 1758 was settled as pac- 
tor at Klosterle. After filling that station for some 
fifteen }'ears, lie began to believe in the cure of physi- 
cal disorders by exorcism, in virtue of the power con- 
ferred on him b} 7 his ordination. 11 is first attorn 1 its 
were made upon himself, and having been, as he 
thought, successful, he felt encouraged to follow what 
he considered his calling. lie travelled much, curing 
the sick, who were brought to him often from places 
afar off. “ The bishop of Constance called him to liis 
residence, but, having come ver} 7 soon to the convic- 
tion that he was a charlatan, advised him to return to 
his parsonage. Gassner betook himself, however, to 
other prelates of the empire, some of whom belie ved 
that his cures were miraculous. In 1771 he even re- 
ceived a call from the bishop at Katisbon to Ellwan- 
gen, where, b\’ the mere word of command, Cesset 
(Give over), he cured persons who pretended to be 
lame or blind, but especially those afflicted with con- 
vulsions and epilepsy, who were all supposed to be 
possessed ly the devil. Although an official person 
kept a continued record of his cures, in which the most 
extraordinar} 7 things were testified, yet it was found 
onty too* soon that Gassner ver\ 7 often made persons 
in health pla} 7 the part of those in sickness, and that 
his cures of real sufferers were successful enh* so long 
as their imagination remained heated ly the persua- 
sions of the conjuror” (Chambers, from Conv. Lexikon , 
s. v.). Finally, the emperor, Joseph II, forbade his 
exorcisms , and the archbishops Anton Peter of Prague 
and Ilienmymus of Salzburg declared themselves 
against him (see Act. histor . eccl. nosiri temjmris , xix, 
335). Pope Pius VI expressed his disapprobation both 
of Gassner’s deeds and writings. He died in retire- 
ment April 4, 1779. Lavater (q. v.) believed in the 
reality of man} 7 of the cures ascribed to Gassner, and 
regarded them as the result of an extraordinary pow- 
er of faith. Among his works, the most remaikable 
are Weise, f romm und gesund zu Itben , und ruing und 
gottselig zu sterben, etc. (Kempten, 1774 ; Augsb. 1775, 
3d ed.), and ./. Gassner s Antivort avf d. Anmerkun- 
gen uidcr seine Gritnde u. Weise z. exorciren (Augsburg, 
1774). — Herzog, Real-En cyklop . iv, C64 ; Hoefer, Xouv . 
Biog. Generate, xix, 595; Sterzingcr, Die avfgedecltcn 
Gassnerschen Wandercuren (1775); Sender, SSammlung 
von Brie fin ?/. Avf 'sat zen aber die Gassnersclie Geister - 
beschworung (Halle, 3770). 

Gastcn. See Anthony, St., Orders of (vol. i, 
p. 252). 

Gastrell, Francis, bishop of Chester, was born at 
Slapton, in Northamptonshire, about 1662, and was 
educated at Westminster School and at Christ Church 
College, Oxford. He became preacher at Lincoln’s 
Inn, and Boyle lecturer. In 1700 he took the degree 
of D.D., and in 1702 lie was appointed canon of Christ 
Church, Oxford. In 1711 he was made chaplain to 
the queen, and in 1714 bishop of Chester, with permis- 
sion to retain his canonry, but he resigned his preach- 
ership at Lincoln’s Inn. Though never friendly to 
bishop Atterburv’s politics, he stood by him in Parlia- 
ment when the Bill of Pains and Penalties was brought 
in against him, and voted against his banishment. 
He survived that event but a few years. The gout 
put an end to his life, Nov. 24, 1725. His most impor- 
tant writings are, The Certainty of Religion in general , 
Bojde lecture (Lond. 1697, 8vo) : — The Certainty of the 
Christian Revelation (Lond. 1699, 8vo) : — The Christian 
Institutes (Lond. 1717, 12mo, 3d ed.) : — Lat. Institutions 
Christiana; (Lond. 3718, 12mo): — Deism truly represent- 
ed (Lond. 1722, 8vo.): — Remarks on Clarke's Doctrine 
of the Trinity (Lond. 1714, 8vo). — Hook, Biog. Ecclcs. 
vol. v ; Chalmers, Biog. Dictionary , s. v. 

Gataker, Charles, son of Thomas Gataker (see 


GATAKER 


749 


GATE 


below), was born at Rotherliithe about 1G14, and was 
educated at St. Paul’s. School, at Sidney College, Cam- 
bridge, and at Pembroke College, Oxford. He be- 
came chaplain to viscount Falkland, and afterwards 
rector of Hoggeston, in Buckinghamshire, where he 
continued from 1G47 till his death in 1GS0. Among 
his writings are, The Way of Truth and Peace , or a 
Reconciliation of St. Paul and St. James concerning Jus- 
tification (1GG9, Svo) : — An Answer to five captious Ques- 
tions propounded by a Factor for the Papacy , by parallel 
Questions and positive Resolutions (Loud. 1G73, 4to) : — 
The Papists' Bait , or their usual Method rf gaining 
Proselytes answered (Lond. 1G74, 4to) : — Jchnographia 
Doctrinal de Justficatione secundum Typvmi in Monte 
(Lond. 1G81, 4to). Gataker wrote Animadversions on 
Bull’s Ilarmonia Apostolica, which brought out Bull’s 
Examen Censurce. — Hook, Keel. Biog. v, 27G ; Woods, 
A then. Oxon. vol. ii. 

Gataker, Thomas, was born Sept. 4, 1574, in 
London, where his father was rector of St. Edmund’s. 
He was educated at St.John’s College, Cambridge, 
and about 1G01 became preacher at Lincoln’s Inn. He 
held this employment for ten years, and applied him- 
self especially to the study of the Scriptures in Hebrew 
and Greek, and wrote several works in illustration of 
the Old Testament, lie also wrote Of the Future and 
Use of Lots (Lond. 1G19, 4to), in which he distinguishes 
between innocent and unlawful games of chance. In 
1G11 he was appointed rector of Rotherliithe. In 1G37 
he printed a defence of his treatise on Lots under the 
title Thomce Gataheri Londinutis Antithesis partim G. 
A tnesii, partim G. Yoetii de Sorte thesibus reposila (4to). 
In 1G42 he was chosen to sit in the Westminster As- 
sembly, where in several instances he differed from 
the majority. He afterwards w rote, with others, the 
Annotations on the Bible , which were published by the 
Assembly ; the notes on Isaiah and Jeremiah are by 
him. “In 1G48, Gataker, with other London clergy- 
men, to the number of forty-seven, remonstrated 
against the measures taken by the Long Parliament 
with respect to king Charles, and he became, in conse- 
quence, an object of suspicion to the ruling powers, but 
by his mild conduct he escaped personal annoyance. 
In 1G52 he published a Latin translation of 31. Aure- 
lius’s Meditations , with valuable notes, tables of refer- 
ence, and a preliminary discourse on the philosophy 
of the Stoics. In the latter part of his life he had to 
sustain a controvers} 1- against the pretended astrologer 
William Lilly.” He died June 27, 1G54. Ilis Opera 
Cri’ica, edited by Witsius, were published at Utrecht, 
1G9S, 2 vols. fol., containing, besides the Meditations, 
his Cinnus and Adversaria Miscellanea , being disqui- 
sitions on Biblical subjects, and De Novi Testamenti 
Stylo , with other philological and critical essays. Ga- 
tiker was a man of high reputation for learning. 
Eehard remarks of him that lie “was the most cele- 
brated of the assembly of divines, being highly es- 
teemed by Salmasius and other foreigners; and it is 
hard to say which is most remarkable, his exemplary 
piety and charity, his polite literature, or his humility 
and modesty in refusing preferments.” — Hook, Eccles. 
Biog. v, 275; Jones, Christian Biography ; English Cy- 
clopaedia s. v. ; Wood, Athenie Oxon. vol. ii. 


Gatch, Philip, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Maryland 3 larch 2, 1751 ; ivas converted 
in 1772 ; entered the Philadelphia Conference as a trav- 
elling preacher in 1774 ; labored in New Jersey, Penn- 
sylvania, and 3Taryland for some years, and in A r ir- 
ginia for about twenty years. He then emigrated to 
the Northwestern Territory in 1798, and settled near 
the village of Cincinnati, where, after a useful career 
as a citizen and minister in that new’ country, he died, 
December 28, 1835. See 3PLean, Sketch of Philip 
Gatch (Cincinnati, 1854) ; Minutes if Conferences , ii, 
403; Sprague, Annals, vii, 50. 

Gate (prop. sha'ar, 7rv\i]; which are also used 
[espec. the Heb. word] for door [q. v.], although this 
latter is more properly designated by nrs, pe thach, 
an opening , of which rb'n, de'leth , was the valve, Gr. 
Srvpa ; there also occur rp, sitph, 1 Chron. ix, 19, 21, a 
vestibule or “threshold,” as usually elsew’here render- 
ed ; and the Chald. r^Pl, tera', an entrance , only in 
Ezra and Dan.), the entrance to inclosed grounds, 
buildings, dwelling-houses, tow r ns, etc. (see Thomson, 
Land and Book , i, 29 sq.). Thus we find mentioned — 
1. Gates of Cities , as of Jerusalem, its sheep-gate, lisli- 
gate, etc. (Jer. xxxvii, 13; Neh. i, 3; ii, 3; v, 3) ; of 
Sodom (Gen. xix, 1); of Gaza (Judges xvi, 3). 2. 

Gates of royal palaces (Neh. iii, 8). 3. Gates of the 

Temple . The temple of Ezekiel had two gates, one 
towards the north, the other towards the east ; the lat- 
ter closed (Ezek. xliv, 1, 2), the other must have been 
open. The gates of Solomon’s Temple were very 
massive and costly, being overlaid with gold andearv- 
ings (1 Kings vi, 34, 35 ; 2 Kings xviii, 1G). Those of 
the Holy Place were of olive-wood, two-leaved, and 
overlaid with, gold ; those of the Temple of fir (1 Kings 
vi, 31, 32, 34 ; Ezek. xli, 23, 24). Of the gates of the 
outer courts of Herod’s temple, nine w’ere covered with 
gold and silver, as well as the posts and lintels; but the 
middle one, the Beautiful Gate (Acts iii, 2), w r as made 
entirely of Corinthian brass, and w r as considered to 
surpass the others far in costliness (Joseph. War, v, 5, 
3). This gate, which w r as so heavy as to require twen- 
ty men to close it, was unexpectedly found open on one 
occasion shortly before the close of the siege (Joseph. 
War, vi, 5, 3 ; Ap. ii, 9). 4. Gates of tombs (3Iatt. xxvii, 
GO). 5. Gates of pnsons. In Acts xii, 10, mention is 
made of the iron gate of Peter’s prison (xvi, 27). Pru- 
dentius (Peristejrfianon, v, 34G) speaks of gate-keep- 
ers of prisons. G. Gates of caverns (1 Kings xix, 13). 
7. Gates of camps (Exod. xxxii, 2G, 27 ; see Heb. xiii, 
12). The camps of the Romans generally had four 
gates, of which the first w r as called porta pnetorio, the 
second deeitmana, the third principalis , the fourth quin- 
tana (Rosin. Antiq. Rom. x, 12). The camp of the Tro- 
jans is also described as having had gates (Virgil, 
ix, 7245. The eatnp of the Israelites in the desert ap- 
pears to have been closed by gates (Exod. xxxii, 27). 
We do not know of what materials the inclosures and 
gates of the temporary camps of the Hebrews were 
formed. In Egyptian monuments such inclosures are 
indicated by lines of upright shields, with gates appa- 
rently of wicker, defended by a strong guard. In later 
Egyptian times, the gates of the temples seem to have 


Ga'tam (Heb. Gatam', t fir*, according to Ge- 
senius from the Arab, puny ; according to Furst from 
a burnt valley; Sept. r«3 wp and ToSa/i v. r. 
VoioSrufi ; Vulg. Gotham and Goth an'), the fourth named 
of the sons of Eliphaz, the son of Esau, and founder of 
a corresponding Edomitish tribe (Gen. xxxvi, 11, 16; 
1 Chron. 3, 3G). B.C. post 1927. Knobel (Gen. ad loc.) 
compares Jodam , an Arab tribe inhabiting the Hisina, 
a part of 3It. Sherah, the V having dropped from the 
name (Gesenius, Thes. p. 976) ; while Rodiger (ib. Ap- 
pend. p. 80) refers to the Arab tribe Jcthamah , men- 
tioned by Ibn-Duraid (1854, p. 300). See Idujlea. 



GATE 


GATE 


750 


been intended as places of defence, if not the principal 
fortifications (Wilkinson, Anc. Eg. i, 409, abridgm.). 



Egyptian Gateway at 3Iedinet Abd. 


The gateways of Assyrian cities were arched or square- 
headed entrances in the wall, sometimes flanked by 
towers (Layard, Nineveh, ii, 888, 895 ; Kin. and Bah. p. 
231 ; Mon. of Kin. pt. ii, pi. 49 ; see also Assyrian bas- 
reliefs in Brit. Mus. Nos. 49, 25, 26). The entrances 



Ancient Assyrians setting fire to an enemy's gates. 

to their own royal mansions were a simple passage be- 
tween two colossal human-headed bulls or lions. See 
Palace. 



Portal of Ancient Assyrian Palace. 


As the. gates of towns served the ancients as places 
of security [see Fortification], a durable material 
was required for them, and accordingly wc find men- 
tioned — 1. Gates of iron and brass (Psa. evii, 18; Isa. 
xlv, 2; Acts xii, 10). It is probable that gates thus 
described were, in fact, only sheeted with plates of 
copper or iron (F alter, A rchrnl. p. 297), and it is prob- 
ably in this sense that we are to interpret the hundred 
brazen gates ascribed to the ancient Babylon. ‘Theve- 
not {Voyage, p. 283) describes J;he six gateg of Jerusa- 
lem as covered with iron, which is probably still the 
ease with the four gates now open. Other iron-cover- 


ed gates are mentioned by travelers, sueh as some or 
the town gates of Algiers (Pitt’s Letter, viii, 10), and 
of the towers of the so-ealled iron bridge at Antioch 
(Pococke, vol. ii, pt. i, p. 172). Gates of iron are also 
mentioned by Hesiod ( Theoy . 732), by Virgil {^Eneid, 

1, 482 ; vii, G09), and by Ovid ( Metamoiyhoses , vii, 126). 

2. Gates of stone., and of pearls, are mentioned in Isa. 
liv, 12, and Kev. xxi, 12, which, it has justly been sup- 
posed, refer to such doors, cut out of a single slab, as 
are occasionally discovered in ancient countries (Shaw, 
p. 210 ; Burckhardt, Syria, p. 58, 74 ; Porter, Damasc. ii, 
22, 192 ; Bay, Coll, of Trav. ii, 429). At Esswan (Sy- 
ene), in Upper Egypt, there is a granite gateway bear- 
ing the name of Alexander, the son of Alexander the 
Great (Wilkinson, iii, 403). The doors leading to the 
several chambers of the so-called “Tombs of the Kings, ” 
near Jerusalem, were each formed of a single sttne 
seven inches thick, sculptured so as to resemble four 
panels : the stiles, muntins, and other parts were cut 
with great art, and exactly resembled those of a door 
made by a carpenter at the present day — the whole be- 
ing completely smooth and polished, and most accurate 
in its proportions. The doors turned on pivots, of 
the same stone of which the rest of them were com- 
posed, which were inserted in corresponding sockets 

, above and below, the lower tenon being of course short. 
This is one of the modes in which heavy doors of wood 
are now hung in the East. One of these doors was 
still hanging in Maundrell’s time, and “did not touch 
its lintel by at least three inches. ” But all these doors 
are now thrown down and broken (Monconys, p. 308 ; 
Thevenot, p. 261 ; Pococke, ii, 21 ; Maundrell, sub Mar. 
28; Wilde, ii, 299; Robinson, i, 530). Similar doors 
are described by X)r. Clarke ( Travels , pt. ii, vol. i, p. 
252) in the remarkable excavated sepulchres at Tel- 
messus, on the southern coast of Asia Minor; and oth- 
ers were noticed by Irby and Mangles ( Travels , p. 302) 
in the sepulchres near Bysan (Bethshan). There are 
stone doors to the houses in the Hauran beyond the 
Jordan (Burckhardt, p. 58) ; and in the north of Persia 
the street doors of superior houses are often composed 
of a single slab of a kind of slate. In the ancient sep- 
I ulehre recently discovered, as described by Dr. Wilde 
( Karrative , ii, 343), the owfcrdooris formed by a single 
! slab, and moves on horizontal pivots that run into sock- 
ets cut in the pilasters at the top, in the manner of a 
swinging hinge. 3. Gates of wood. Of this kind were 
probably the gates of Ga- 
za (Judg. xvi, 3). They 
had generally two valves, 
which, according to Fa- 
ber’s description {Arch. p. 
300), had sometimes small- 
er doors, or wickets, to af- 
ford a passage when the 
principal gate was closed 
— a fact which he applies 
to the illustration of Matt, 
vii, 13. 

The parts of the doorway 
were the threshold (70, 
Judg. xix, 27 ; Sept. 7 rpo- 
...J Onnov, Vulg. limen ), the 
side-posts (rT^F'S; ara6- 
/iot ; aterque poitis), and 
the lintel (Cpp'w'S; <p\id, svpcrliminare, Exod. xii, 7). 
It was on the lintel and side-posts that the blood of the 
Passover lamb was sprinkled (Exod. xii, 7, 22). A trace 
of some similar practice in Assyrian worship seems to 
have been discovered at Nineveh (Layard, Kin. ii, 256). 
Gates were generally protected by some works against 
the surprises of enemies (Jer. xxxix, 4). Sometimes 
two gates were constructed one behind another, an cut- 
er and inner one, or there were turrets on both sides 
(2 Sam. xviii, 24, 33; see Faber’s Archeology, p. 801 \ 
The gates of the ancients were generally secured vith 



GATE 


75 1 


GATE 


strong, heavy bolts and locks of brass or iron (Dent, iii, 
5; 1 Sam. xxiii, 7; 1 Kings iv, 13; 2 Chron. viii, 5; 
Jer. xlv, 2; xlix, 31 ; Psa. exlvii, 13). This was prob- 
ably done with a view to the safety of the town, and 
to prevent hostile inroads (llanner’s Observations , i, 
188). The keys of gates, as well as of doors, were 
generally of wood ; and Thevenot observes that gates 
might be opened even with the finger put into the key- 
hole — from which llarmer elucidates the passage in 
the Song of Solomon, v. 4. The doors themselves of 
the larger gates mentioned in Scripture were two- 
leaved, plated with metal (J udg. xvi, 3 ; Neh. iii, 3-15; 
Psa. evii, 16 ; Isa. xlv, 1, 2). Gates not defended by 
iron were of course liable to be set on tire by an ene- 
my (Judg. ix, 52). 

The gates of towns were kept open or shut accord- 
ing to circumstances: in time of war they were closed 
against the inroads of the enemy (Josh, ii, 5), but they 
were opened when the enemy had been conquered. 
On festive occasions they were also thrown wide open, 
to which Psa. xxiv, 7 alludes. This opening of the 
gates, as well as closing them, was done b} r means of 
keys. That near the gates towers were often con- 
structed, serving for defence .against attacks of the en- 
emy, may be inferred from Deut. iii, 5; 2 Sam. xviii, 
24 ; Judg. ix, 35, comp, with 52. So Juvenal (Sat. vi, 
200) puts the towers of the gates for the gates them- 
selves. Virgil (JEn. vi, 550) represents the infernal 
gate as having a tower. Enemies, therefore, in be- 
sieging towns, were most anxious to obtain possession 
of the gates as quickly as possible (Deut. xviii, 52 ; 
Judg. ix, 40; 2 Sam. x, 8; xi, 33; 1 Kings viii, 37 ; 
Job v, 4; Isa. xxii, 7 ; xxviii, G); and generally the 
town was conquered when its gates were occupied by 
the invading troops (Deut. xxxviii, 57 ; Judg. v, 8). 
This observation is made also by several Greek and 
Roman authors (llerodian, Hisfor. i, 12, § 14; Virgil, 
JEn. ii, 802 sq.). In or near the gates, therefore, they 
placed watchmen, and a sufficiently strong guard, to 
keep an eye on the movements of the enemy, and to 
defend the works in case of need (Judg. xviii, 1G; 2 
Kings vii, 3 ; Neh. xiii, 22 ; see llerodian, Hist or, iii, 2, 
§ 21 ; Virgil, sEn. ii, 2G5 sq., 365). Regarded, there- 
fore, as positions of great importance, the gates of 
cities were carefully guarded and closed at nightfall 
(Deut. iii, 5; Josh, ii, 5, 7 ; Judg. ix, 40, 44; 1 Sam. 
xxiii, 7; 2 Sam. xi, 23; Jer. xxxix, 4; Judith i, 4). 
They contained chambers over the gateway, and prob- 
ably also chambers or recesses at the sides for the va- 
rious purposes to which they were applied (2 Sam. 
xviii, 24 ; Layard, Nin. and Bab. p. 57, and note). In 
the Temple, Levites, and in houses of wealthier class- 
es and in palaces, persons were especially appointed 
to keep the gates (Jer. xxxv, 4 ; 2 Kings xii, 9 ; xxv, 
18; 1 Chron. ix, 18, 19 ; Esth. ii, 21 ; ; Sept. 

Ovpiopoi, TzvXiopoi ; Vulg. portarii, jnnitorcs). In the 
A. V. these are frequently called “porters,” a word 
which has now acquired a different meaning. The 
chief steward of the household in the palace of the 
shah of Persia was called chief of the guardians of the 
gate (Chardin, vii, 3G9). 

We read that some portions of the law were to he 
written on the gates of towns, as well as on the do^rs 
of houses (Deut. vi, 9 ; xi, 20) ; and if this is to he liter- 
ally understood (comp. Isa. liv, 12; Rev. xxi, 21), it 


receives illustration from the practice of the Moslems 
in painting passages of the Koran on their public and 
private gates (Manndrell, E. T. p. 488 ; Lane, Mod. Erf. 
i, 29 ; Ilauwolff, Travels, pt. iii, chap. 10 ; Ray, ii, 278). 
Various artificial figures and inscriptions were en- 
graved on their gates by the Romans (Virgil, Georg. 
iii, 2G sq.). See Post. 

Gates are often mentioned in Scripture as places at 
which were holden courts of justice, to administer the 
law and determine points in dispute: hence judges in 
the gate are spoken of (Deut. xvi, 18 ; xvii, 8 ; xxi, 19; 
xxv, G, 7 : Josh, xx, 4 ; Ruth iv, 1 ; 2 Sam. xv, 2; xix, 
S; 1 Kings xxii, 10; Job xxix, 7; Prov. xxii, 22; 
xxiv, 7 ; Lam. v, 14; Amos v, 12; Zech. viii, 1G). 
The reason of this custom is apparent; for the gates 
being places of great concourse and resort, the courts 
held at them were of easy access to all the people; 
witnesses and auditors to all transactions were easily 
secured (a matter of much importance in the absence 
or scanty use of written documents) ; and confidence 
in the integrity of the magistrate was insured by the 
publicity of the proceedings (comp. Polyb. xv, 31). 
There was within the gate a particular place, where 
the judges sat on chairs, and this custom must be un- 
derstood as referred to when we read that courts were 
held under the gates , as may be proved from 1 Kings 
xxii, 10; 2 Chron. xviii, 9. Apart from the holding 
of courts of justice, the gate served for reading the law, 
and for proclaiming ordinances, etc. (2 Chron. xxxii, G ; 
Neh. viii, 1, 3). We see from Prov. xxxi, 23; Lam. v, 
14, that the inferior magistrates held a court in the 
gates, as well as the superior judges (Jer. xxxvi, 10) ; 
and even kings, at least occasionally, did the same (1 
Kings xxii, 10, comp, with Psa. xxvii, 5). The gates 
at Jerusalem served the same purpose ; but for the 
great number of its inhabitants, many places of justice 
weve required. Thus we find that Nehemiali (iii, 32) 
calls a particular gate of this city the counsel-gate, or 
justice-gate, which seems to have had a preference, 
though not exclusive, since courts must have been 
holden in the other gates also. After the erection of 
the second Temple, the celebrated great Sanhedrim, 
indeed, assembled in the so-called conclave aesune of 
the 'Fein pie ; but we find that one of the Svncdria of 
Jerusalem, consisting of twenty-three members, as- 
sembled in the east gate, leading to the court of Israel, 
the other in the gate leading to the Temple Mount. 
The same custom prevails to the present day among 
other Oriental nations, as in the kingdom of Morocco, 
where courts of justice are holden in the gate of the 
capital town (Dopter, Theatrum panarum , p. 9 sq.). 
Hence came the usage of the word “ Porte” in speak- 
ing of the government of Constantinople (Early Trav. 
p. 349). Respecting the Abvssinians and inhabitants 
of Hindustan, we are likewise assured that they em- 
ployed their gates for courts of justice. Homer (Iliad, 
i, 198 sq.) states of the Trojans that their elders as- 
sembled in the gates of the town to determine causes, 
and Virgil (sEn. i, 509 sq.) says the same. From Ju- 
venal (Safiv. iii, 11) it appears that with the Romans 
the porta Capena was used for this purpose (Graevii 
Thesaurus Antiquit. Roman, x, 179. We may refer 
to J. D. Jacobi's Dissertat. de foro in portis, Leipzig, 
1714, where the custom of holding courts in the gates 
of towns is explained at large. See Trial. The 



A Persian Satrap dictating Terms to Greek Chiefs at a City Gate. (From the Lyeian Monuments.) 


GATE 


752 


GATH 


Egyptian and Assyrian monuments represent the king | 
as giving an audience, especially to prisoners, at his 
tent-door. 

In Palestine gates were, moreover, the places where, 
sometimes at least, the priests delivered their sacred 
addresses and discourses to the people; and we find 
that the prophets often proclaimed their warnings and 
prophecies in the gates (Prov. i, 21 ; viii, 3; Isa. xxix, 
21 ; Jer. xvii, 10, 20; xxvi, 10 ; xxxvi, 10). 

Among the heathen gates were connected with sac- 
rifices, which were offered in their immediate vicini- 
ty; in which respect the hills near the gate arc men- 
tioned (2 Kings xxiii, 8). In Acts xiv, 13, the gates 
of Lvstra are referred to, near which sacrifice was of- 
fered : in which passage Camerarius, Dedicn, and 
Heinsius take tt uXujvciq to mean the town-gate. The 
principal gate of the royal palace at Ispahan was in 
Chardin’s time held sacred, and served as a sanctuary 
for criminals (Chardin, vii, 368, and petitions were pre- 
sented to the sovereign at the gate. See Esth. iv, 2, 
and Herod, iii, 120, 140). 

The gate was, further, a public place of meeting and 
conversation, where the people assembled in large num- 
bers to learn the news of the day, and by various talk 
to while away the too tedious hours (Psa. lxix, 13). 
It was probably with this view that Lot sat under the 
gate of Sodom (Gen. xix, 1) ; which is more probable 
than the Jewish notion that he sat there as one of the 
judges of the city (comp. Gen. xxiii, 10, 18 ; xxxiv, 
20; 1 Sam. iv, 18; 2 Sam. xviii, 24; see Shaw, Trav. 
p. 207). 

Under the gates they used to sell various merchan- 
dises, provisions, victuals, e. g. at Samaria (2 Kings 
vii, 1); and for this purpose there were generally re- 
cesses in the space under them (see Herodian, vii, 0, § 
C). The same is stated by Aristophanes ( Equit . 1245, 
ed. Dind.) of the gates of the Greeks. But the com- 
modities sold at the gates are almost exclusively coun- 
try produce, animal or vegetable, for the supply of the 
city, and not manufactured goods, which are invaria- 
bly sold in the bazaars in the heart of the town. The 
gate-markets also arc only held for a few hours early 
in the morning. See Bazaar. 

On an uproar having broken out at Jerusalem, the 
heads of the people met under the New-gate (Jer. xxix, 
26), where they were sure to find insurgents. The 
town-gates were to the ancient Orientals what the cof- 
fee-houses, exchanges, markets, and courts of law arc 
in our large towns; and such is still the case in a 
great degree, although the introduction of coffee-houses 
has in this, and other respects, caused some alteration 
of Eastern manners. In capital towns the quidnuncs 
occasionally sat with the same views near the gate of 
the royal palace, where also the officers and messen- 
gers of the palace lounged about; and where persons 
having suits to offer, favors to beg, or wishing to rec- 
ommend themselves to favorable notice, would wait 
day after day, in the hope of attracting the notice of 
the prince or great man at his entrance or coming forth 
(Esth. ii, 10, 21 ; iii, 2). 

Criminals were punished without the gates (1 Kings 
xxi, 13; Acts vii, 50), which explains the passage in 
Heb. xiii, 12. The same custom existed among the 
Romans (see Plant. Mi lit. Glorios. act ii, sc. iv, 6, 7). 
At Borne executions took place without the Porta 4V1 c- 
tia or Esqnilina. As to the gate through which Christ 
was led before his crucifixion, opinions differ; some 
taking it to have been the Dung-gate (Lamy, Apparat. 
Gcograph. eh. xiii, § 3, p. 321) ; others, following Ilot- 
tinger ( Cipp . llebr. p. 16) and Godwyn, understand it 
of the Gate of Judgment. But for all that concerns the 
gates of Jerusalem, we must refer to the article Jeru- 
salem. 

Gates are put figuratively for public places'of towns 
and palaces. The gates of a-town are alsp put instead 
of the town itself (Gen. xxii, 17 ; xxiv, 60; Jndg. v, 
8; Itntli iv, 10; Dent. xii,12; Psa. lxxxvii,2; cxxii,2). 


By gates of righteousness (Psa. cxviii, 19) those of 
the Temple are no doubt meant. The gates of death 
and of hell occur in Job xxxviii, 17 : Psa. ix, 14 ; Mi- 
cah ii, 13. Doors and gates ot‘ hell are especially in- 
troduced, Prov. v, 5; Isa. xxxviii, 10; Matt, xvi, 19 ; 
and the Jews go so far in their writings as to ascribe 
real gates to bell (Wagonseil, Sofa, p. 220). Virgil 
(sEn. vi, 126) also speaks of infernal gates. The ori- 
gin of this metaphorical expression is not difficult to 
explain ; for it was very common to use the word gates 
as an image of large empires (Psa. xxiv, 7); and in 
pagan authors the abode of departed souls is represent- 
ed as the residence of Pluto (sec Virgil, sEn. vi, 417 
sq.). In the passage, then, Matt, xvi, 19, by “gates 
of hell” must be understood all aggressions by the in- 
fernal empire upon the Christian Church. — Kitto, s. 
v. ; Smith, s. v. See City. 

Gath (Hcb. id. PS, a wine-wtf, as in Isa. lxiii, 2, 
etc.; Sept, usually ITS'; Josephus FtYra or iTrra), 
one of the five ro}^ cities of the Philistines (Josh, xiii, 

; 3). It was one of the cities upon which the ark is said 
! to have brought calamity (1 Sam. v, 8, 9), and which 
offered in connection therewith a trespass-offering, 
each one a golden emerod (1 Sam. vi, 17). Goliath, 

' of the family of giants which Joshua spared (Josh, xi, 

| 22), of which other members may be found mentioned 
in Scripture (1 Chron. xxi, 5-8; 2 Sam. xxi, 19-22), 
has rendered Gath a word familiar from our childhood ; 

I but it is not certain whether Goliath was a native or 
i merely a resident of Gatli (1 Sam. xvii, 4). To Achish, 
king of Gath, David twice fled for fear of Saul (1 Sam. 

1 xxi, 10; xxvii, 2-7 ; Psa. 1 vi). At his own entreaty 
David received from Acliish the city of Ziklag. David 
dwelt in the country of the Philistines “a full year 
and four months.” David’s connection with Gatli 
throws light on the feelings which dictated the words 
j (2 Sam. i, 20), “ Tell it (the death of 4 Saul and Jona- 
! than his son’) not in Gath.” Mieah also (i, 10) says, 

1 “Declare it (the wound come unto Judah, ver. 9) not at 
Gath.” It was conquered by David, and fortified both 
by him and by IJehoboam (2 Sam. viii, 1 ; 1 Chron. 
xviii, 1 ; 2 Chron. xi, 8). From 2 Sam. xv, 18, it ap- 
pears that David had a band (600 men) of Gittites in 
bis service at the time of the rebellion of Absalom. 
Their devotedness to him under Ittai their leader forms 
a beautiful episode in the history of David’s varied 
fortune (2 Sam. xv, 19 sq). Shimei’s visit to Gath 
and its fatal consequences to himself maybe read in 1 
Ivinas ii, 39-46. In the reign of Solomon mention is 
made of a king of Gath (1 Kings iv, 24), who was 
doubtless a tributary prince, but powerful enough to 
cause apprehension to Solomon, as appears from the 
punishment he inflicted on Shimei. Under Jehoash, 
llazacl, king of Syria, took Gath (2 Kings xii, 17); 
from his successor, Benhadad, the place Mas recovered 
(2 Kings xiii, 24). It must, however, have soon re- 
volted; for Uzziali (2 Chron. xxvi, 6), finding it nec- 
essary to Avar against the Philistines, “ broke down the 
wall of Gath.” Probably the conquest was not of 
long duration. This constant withstanding of the 
power of Jerusalem shows that Gath was a place of 
! great resources and high eminence — a conclusion 
which is confirmed by the language employed by the 
prophets (Amos vi, 2; Micali i, 10). The ravages of 
war to which Gath was exposed appear to have de- 
stroyed it at a comparatively early period, as it is not 
mentioned among the other royal cities l>y r the later 
prophets (Zeph. ii, 4 ; Zech. ix, 5, 6\ 

Gath occupied a strong position (2 Chron. xi, 8) on 
the border of Judah and Philistia (1 Sam. xxi, 10; 1 
Chron. xviii, 1). It was near Shocoh and Adullam 
(2 Chron. xi, 8), and it appears to have stood on the 
way leading from the former to Ekron ; for when the 
Philistines fled on the death of Goliath, the}” went “by 
the wav of Shaaraim, even unto Gath and unto Ekron” 
(1 Sam. xvii, 1, 52). Yet, with all these indications, 


GATH-HEPHER 


53 


GAUDEN" 


there has been great uncertainty as to the site (Uehind, 
Pald’st. p. 785 sq.). Josephus places it in the tribe of 
Dan (J?tf. v, i, 22; in Ant. viii, 10, 1, he calls it Ipan , 
EiVJf, by an error of the copyist, Belaud, p. 747). The 
accounts of Eusebius and Jerome are confused. In the 
Onomast. (s. v. PeS-yd) they both say, “ Gath, from 
-which the Anakim and Philistines were not extermi- 
nated, is a village seen by such as go from Eleuther- 
opolis to Diospolis, at about the fifth milestone.” Yet 
in the same connection Eusebius mentions another 
Gath (or rtJSd), a large village between Antipatris 
and Jamnia, which he considered to be that to which 
the ark was carried (1 Sam. v, 8) ; hence the Crusaders 
identified Gath with Jamnia ( Gestu Dei, p. 88G). On 
the other hand, Jerome says (on Micah ., i), “ Gath is 
one of the live Philistine cities lying near the confines 
of Judah, on the road from Eleutheropolis to Gaza; 
now it is a very large village.” On Jer. xxv, the 
same authority declares that Gath was not far from 
Azotns. Yet in his preface to Jonah he says that 
Geth, in Opher, the native place of the prophet, is to he 
distinguished. Bonfrerc suggests (In the Onomast. s. 
v.) that there were several places of the same name, 
and this may account for the discrepancies. Dr. Bob- 
inson sought in vain for some traces of its site (Re- 
searches, ii, 421) ; yet Schwarz (Palest, p. 121) says it 
still remains in “a village by the name of Gathu, three 
English miles south of Jaffa, on the shore of the Medi- 
terranean” — a statement confirmed by no other travel- 
ler. See also Gittaiji. Thomson (Land and Book, ii, 
3G0) contends for Beit-Jibrin or Eleutheropolis as the 
true site ; but Mr. Porter, who made a special visit to 
Philistia in 1857 for the purpose of discovering the 
spot, argues for its identification with the conspicuous 
hill now called Tell cs-Sufch. This hill stands upon 
the side of the plain of Philistia, at the foot of the 
mountains of Judah, ten miles east of Aslulod, and 
about the same distance south by east of Ekron. It 
is irregular in form, and about 200 feet high. On the 
top are the foundations of an old castle ; and great 
numbers of hewn stones are built up in the walls of 
the terraces that run along the declivities. On the 
north-east is a projecting shoulder, whose sides appear 
to have been scarped. Here, too, are traces of ancient 
buildings ; and here stands the modern village, ex- 
tending along the whole northern face of the hill. In 
the walls of the houses are many old stones, and at its 
western extremity two columns still remain on their 
pedestals. Pound the sides of the hill, especially on 
the south, are large cisterns excavated in the rock 
(Iland-hook for Syria and Pal. p. 252). — Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. See Mizpeii. 

The inhabitants are called Gittites (“TO, Sept. 
rerSaToc). See also Gatii-Hepiier ; Gatii-Pim- 
mox; Mokesiietii-Gatii. 

Gath-he'pher (Ileb. with the art. Gath ha-Cke'- 
pher, “'SHH ra, win e-press of the well; Sept, r^yo^rp. 
Vulg. Geth quae est in Opher), a town in Galilee, the 
birthplace of the prophet Jonah (2 Kings xiv, 25). It 
is stated by Eusebius and Jerome to have been in the 
tribe of Zebulun (Onomast. s. v. VE$St(j>a, Gethefer). 
The latter (Prof, ad Jon.) speaks of it as a small place 
two miles from Sepphoris, on the way to Tiberias, and 
says that the sepulchre of Jonah was shown in his day. 
Benjamin of Tudela, in the 12tli century, says that the 
tomb of Jonah was still shown on a hill near Seppho- 
ris (Early Travels in Pal. p. 89). It was doubtless the 
same as Gittaii-jiepiiek, situated in the east of Zeb- 
ulun (Josh, xix, 13). The position corresponds well to 
that of el-Mcshetd, a village on the top of a rocky hill, 
in which is still shown a Muslim tomb of the prophet 
Jonah (Bobinson,/?esra?rAes, iii, 209, note; De Saulcy, 
Narrative, ii, 318; Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 122; 
Schwarz, Palest, p. 89 ; Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 312). 
See Gufta. 


Gath-riin'mon (Heb. Gath-Rimmon ' , i ? 

press of the pomegranate ; Sept. Vulgate 

Gethremmon ), a town in the tribe of Dan (Josh, xix, 
45), and a Levitical city (Josh, xxi, 24; 1 Chron. vi, 
G9). In the time of Eusebius and Jerome it was a 
very large village, “twelve miles from Diospolis as 
you go hence to Eleutheropolis” (Onomast. s. v. TeS- 
pEppwv, Gethremmon) ; hut the same writers also men- 
tion a Gath five Roman miles north of Eleutheropolis 
towards Diospolis (ib. s. v. Te^, Geth). Dr. Bobinson 
thinks them to be one place, and that the site is found 
in Dcir Dubbdn , where are some remarkable excava- 
tions ( Researches , ii, 421). In that case, however, it 
could not have lain within the territory of Dan, which 
passed at a point between the two positions. The first- 
mentioned distance 'would correspond to that of the 
modern site Rafit , containing wide-spread ruins (Bob- 
inson, Researches, iii, 20). 

The Gath-rimmon mentioned in Josh, xxi, 25 as be- 
ing in the tribe of Manasseli, Ilamner (Paldstina, p. 
173) supposes to he another Levitical city ; but Winer 
(Realicbrterbitch, s. v. Gath) ascribes its origin to a mis- 
take of the transcriber, who repeated the word from 
the preceding verse. The Sept, has T E}3aSa (v. r. 
Boi-SW), probably intended for the Idleam (q. v.) of 
Josh, xvii, 11. 

Gaubil, Antoine, a Roman Catholic missionary, 
was horn at Gaillac (Languedoc) July 14, 1G89. He 
joined the Jesuits in 1704, and was sent to China as 
a missionary in 1723. He arrived in China just af- 
ter the accession of the emperor Young-Tsching , who 
was bent on banishing the Jesuits. Through the 
skilful management of Gaubil, most of the members 
of the order kept their positions. When the son of 
Young-Tsehing, Kiang-Loung, ascended the throne in 
173G, Gaubil, who had become thoroughly acquaint- 
ed with the Chinese and Mantchou languages, was 
appointed chief director of the imperial colleges where 
the children of the nobility were educated. He thus 
managed to remain in high standing at the Chineso 
court until his death, which took place at Pekin July 
24, 1759. He was a correspondent of the Academy 
of Sciences of Paris, and a member of that of St. 
Petersburg. He wrote Le Chou-King , trad, du Chi- 
nois (Paris, 1771, 4to ; the oldest and most impor- 
tant historical book of the Chinese, compiled by Con- 
fucius, and giving the basis of the Chinese govern- 
ment and law) : — Histoire de Gentchiscan et de tonte la. 
dynastic des J Tangoux, scs surcesscnrs, conquerants de la 
Chine (Paris, 1739, 4t<>) : — Traite de Chremologle chinoise 
(publ. by De Sacv, Paris, 1814, 4to): — Traite hlstorique 
et critique de V Astronomie chinoise: — Traite de Chrono- 
logic chinoise (Minnoires concernant les Chlnols, vol. xv): 
— Histoire de la Dynastic des Tang (Memo Ires concer- 
nant les Chino is, vols. xv and xvi): — Journal de mon 
Voyage de Canton a Pekin (Prevost, Hist, des voyages, 
vol. v) : — Notices et description stir la Chine , le Thibet , 
etc. (in Lettres ed>f antes). M. Abel de Bemusat con- 
siders him also as the author of the Description de la, 
ville de Peking (Paris, 1785, 4to), published under the 
names of Delisle and Pingrc. See Amyot, Memoires 
stir les Chlnois ; Lettres edlji antes, t. xxxi ; G. Pauthier, 
La Chine (Univers pittoresque, p. 22, 31, 3G3) ; Abel de 
Bemusat, Xonrcunx M Ganges Asiatlqucs. — lloefer, Xou- 
velle Bicg. Generate, xix, G3G. 

Gauden, Jonx, D.D., bishop of Worcester, was 
horn at Mayfield, Essex, in 1G05. He studied at St. 
John’s College, Cambridge, and subsequently obtained 
the rectorship of Brightwell, Berkshire, and the dean- 
ery of Booking. In 1GG0 he became bishop of Exeter, 
and was translated to Worcester in 1GG2, “ much disap- 
pointed at missing the lucrative see of Winchester.” 
lie died in the same year, lie was a man of great 
talents, and very indust' ions, hut ambitious and avari- 
cious. He was the publisher of king Charles Ps Elkon 
Baslllke, of which some have considered him as the 


III.— B B B 


GAUDENTIUS 


754 


GAUSSEN 


author. Of his own works, the principal are, Three 
Sermons preached upon several public Occasions (Lond. 
1642, 4to) : — Hieraspistes , a defence of the ministry and 
ministers of the Church of England (Lond. 1053, 4to): 
—Considerations touching the Liturgy of the Church of 
England , etc. (London, 1601, 4to) : — .1 Sermon preached 
on the Occasion of the Death of Bp. Brownrig (London, 
1GG0, sm. Svo) : — Ecclcsm Anglicanee suspiria (London, 
1059, foL): — Anti Dual Beritk (London, 1GG1, 4to): — 
Analysis of the Covenant (London, 1GG0, 4to). — Darling, 
Cyclop. Bibliographical s. v. ; Nichols, Calvinism and 
A rmimanism, vol. i ad fin. ; Hook, Eccl. Biog. v, 279. 

Gaudentius, bishop of Brescia, succeeded Pliilas- 
trius in the see of Brescia in the 4th century. He was 
chosen while away upon his travels, and extraordi- 
nary means were used that lie might be induced to 
assume the office. He was ordained by St. Ambrose 
about 387. lie does not appear to have interfered in 
the disturbances of the times except in being one of 
the deputies sent to Constantinople in 404 or 405 by 
the bishops of the West for the reinstatement of St. 
Chrysostom in his see of Constantinople. When lie 
died is unknown ; some fix the date at 410, others at 
427. Nineteen sermons of his are extant, preceded by 
a preface to Bencvolus, which may be found in Bib. 
Max. Patrol, vol. v; in Migne’s ( TJuvres tres completes 
des ecrivains eceles. du v siecle (Paris, 1849, 4to); and 
in Migne, Patrol. Latina, vol. xx. — Clarke, Succ. of 
Sac. Lit. vol. i; Cave, Ilist. Lit. i, 180; Ceillier, Au- 
teurs Sucres (Paris, 18G1), viii, 34. 

Gaul. See France. 

Gaulonltis. See Golan. 

Gaultier or Gautier, Francois de, of St. Blan- 
card, a Protestant writer and divine, was born in the 
first half of the 17th century at Gallargues, in the de- 
partment of Gard, and died at Berlin in 1703. He 
was minister at Montpellier, and presided over the last 
synod ©f Bas-Langucdoc, held at Uzes in 1G81 ; but, 
having compromised his safety through his zeal for 
Protestant interests, he withdrew to Switzerland with 
his family in 1G83, and afterwards to Holland. The 
prince of Orange esteemed him highly, and employed 
him in several important affairs; among others, on a 
confidential mission to the elector of Brandenburg, 
who retained Gaultier at his court, and named him his 
chaplain. We have from his pen Deflexions generates 
svr le Here de Mgr. de Meaux , ci-devant eveque Condom , 
etc. (on Bossuet’s Exposition of the Catholic Doctrine, 
Berlin, 1G85, 12m o): — Histoire Apologetiqne ou defense 
des libertes des Eglises reformers de France (Amst. 1688, 
2 vols. 12mo): — Sermons (Berlin, 1G9G, 8vo). — Hoefer, 
Xonv. Biog. Gen. xix, G75; Haag, La France Protes- 
tante, s. v. (J. W. M.) 

Gaume, Jean, a Roman Catholic theologian of 
France. He was a prolific writer of the strictest ul- 
tramontane school, and in 1852, while vicar general 
of the diocese of Nevcrs, kindled a great literary con- 
troversy by liis pamphlet Yer Rongeur , in which he 
condemned the study of the Latin and Greek classics, 
ami advocated the substitution for them of the Church 
fathers in the course of classical education. The lead- 
ing organ of the ultramontane party in France, the 
Univers , and several bishops, sided with Gaume; but 
many others declared against his views, and his own 
diocesan, the bishop of Ncvcrs, censured him for the 
publication of the pamphlet. In consequence of tins 
censure, Gaume resigned at the close of the year 1852. 
He died in 1809. Among his other numerous writings 
are, Du Catholicisme dans l education (1835): — Manuel 
des Confesseurs (5th edit. 1842) : — Catichisme de Perse- 
verance (1838): — Tableaux de V histoire de la religion: 
— Histoire de la Sociite domestique (1844) : — Credo ou 
refuqe du Chrititn dans les temps aetucls (Paris, 18G7). 
(A. J. S.) 

Gaurs, supposed descendants of the Parsees, still 


subsisting in different parts of the East. See Par- 
sees. 

Gaussen, Etienne, a French Protestant theolo- 
gian, was born at Nisnies in the early part of the 17th 
century, and died at Sauimir in 1G75. In 1G51 he was 
made professor of philosophy in the Protestant Acade- 
my of Saurnur, and in 1055 succeeded Jomic de la 
Place in the chair of theology. He agreed with La 
Place that the study of philosophy was useful to the 
theologian, and strongly urged it upon his pupils. 
His works are marked by vigor and depth of thought, 
and enjoyed for a long time a high reputation in the 
schools of Holland and Germany. The titles are, The- 
ses inaugurates de Yerbo Dei (Saurnur, 1G55, 4to) : — De • 
Consensu Gratae cum Natura (ib. 1659, 4to): — De Ra - 
done Studii theologici — De Xatura Theoluguc — De Rati- 
on e Concionandi — De Utilitate Philose phice ad theolngi- 
am , quibus accessit breve scriptum de recto usu eluvium 
erga agrotantes (ib. 1G70, 4to : this collection, regarded 
by Bayle as the best guide for the study of the the- 
ology of the time, has passed through numerous edi- 
tions — last one Halle, 1727) : — Theses theological , altera 
de natura theology c, altera de divinitate Scriptime Same 
(ib. 1G7G, 4to). — Iloefer, Xour. Biog. Generate , xix, G90, 
G91 ; Haag, La France Protestante , s. v. (J. W. M.) 

Gaussen, Louis, a Swiss divine, was born in Ge- 
neva Aug. 25, 1790, and in 181G became pastor of Sa- 
tignv, near Geneva. Here he came under the influ- 
ence of pastor Ccllcrier, who had retained his Chris- 
tian fidelity and simple faith amid the general falling 
away of the Swiss clergy. The revival of religion in 
Switzerland about that time, due largely to the labors 
of the brothers Haldani (q. v.), was odious to the ma- 
jority of the Geneva clergy, and the Yhierable Com- 
pagnie des Pasteurs passed some ordinances infringing 
strongly upon Christian liberty. Gaussen and Cclle- 
rier protested against the proceeding by republishing 
the Helvetic Confession in French, with a preface ad- 
vocating the need and utility of confessions of faith. 
Gaussen continued to labor faithfully in Satignv for 
twelve years, and his name became known throughout 
Switzerland as an earnest upholder of evangelical 
Christianity. Ilis aim was, not to divide the national 
Church, but to reinspire it with Christian life. His 
energy and orthodoxy were alike displeasing to the 
Rationalists, and he was involved in long disputes 
with the Yenerable Compagnie. They ordered him to 
use the emasculated and Rationalistic Catechism which 
had been substituted in Geneva for Calvin's: he re- 
fused, and was censured (see Letters du Pasteur Gaus- 
sen a la Yenerable Compagnie , etc., 1831 ; and, on the 
other side, Expose d(s discussions entre la Compagnie 
etc. et M. Gaussen, 1831). He kept on his way, and, 
in union with Merle (d’Aubignc) and Gallant!, formed 
the “Evangelical Society” for the distribution of Bi- 
bles, tracts, etc. The Consistory at last suspended 
him, so low had orthodox Christianity sunk in Ge- 
neva, the home of Calvin. In 1834 he took the chair 
of theology in the newly-founded evangelical school 
I of Geneva, where he taught a strictly orthodox doc- 
i trine, perhaps without sufficient knowledge of the con- 
dition of modem thought. In his Theojmeustle (1840; 
translated in England and America) he maintained, in 
its strongest form, the verbal inspiration of the Scrip- 
tures. In I860 he published his Canon des Ecritures 
Salutes (translated, Canon of Holy Scripture, 186)2), in 
which he vindicated his theory of inspiration against 
the attacks of Scherer and others. Ilis Lemons sur 
Daniel contained the substance of his lectures and cat- 
echetical lessons on Daniel. He died June 18, 18G3. 
We have translations of several of his writings besides 
, those already named, viz .Geneva and Jerusalem (1844): 
— Geneva and Dome, a discourse (1844) : — ft is written , 
Scripture proved to he from Go l (I85G): — Lessons for 
the Young on the six Days of Creation (18G0). — Herzog, 
j Real-Encyklop. xix, 538. 


GAUTAMA 


755 


GAZA 


Gautama. See Gotama. 

Gautbert, also called Aftbert or Gafzbert, 
one of the earliest missionaries of Sweden, lie was 
a nephew of archbishop Ebho (q. v.), and was appoint- 
ed bishop of Swedeu by St.Ansgar. Accompanied by 
his nephew Nithard and several other priests, he set 
out in 834 for Sweden, and at once began to preach the 
Gospel. lie built the first Christian church of Sweden 
at Iiirka. A large number of pagans were soon con- 
verted, and the prospects of the mission appeared to 
be brilliant, but the pagan priests raised a tumult 
against the missionaries, in which Nithard was killed, 
while Gautbert had a narrow escape, being chained 
and transported with his companions across the fron- 
tier. All of them repaired to the monasteries of AVel- 
nan (now Miinsterdorf, in Holstein), in order to await 
there a favorable occasion for returning to Sweden. 
As, however, no new opening seemed to present itself, 
he aeeepted, in 845, (he see of Osnabruck, which lie ad- 
ministered until April 11, 8(10, when he. resigned. He 
died three or four years afterwards. (A. J. S.) 

Gavanti, Bartiielemi, an Italian ecclesiastic, 
was born at Monza in 1509, and died at Milan in 1G38. 
lie was consultor of the Congregation of Kites and 
general of the Barnabites (q. v.). His most important, 
work, Thesaurus Sacronun Rituum , is a commentary 
on the rubrics of the Missal and the Doman Breviary, 
more learned than critical. The best edition of the 
Thesaurus is that containing the observations of Me- 
r.iti (Turin, 1730,-40, 4 vols. 4to) ; another, in 2 vols. 
ful., was published at Venice in 17G2. Gavanti wrote 
also Praxis visitations episcopalis et synodi diacesunoe 
celeb rand e (Home, 1G28, 4to), and J fumade Episcopo- ; 
rum (Baris, 1047, 4to). — Hoefcr, Xouv. Biog. Generate, 
xix, 735. (J.W. M.) 

Gay, Ebexezer, D.D., a Unitarian clergyman, 
was born in Dedham, Mass., Aug. 15, 1690. lie grad- 
uated at Harvard Cellcge in 1714; was admitted into 
the ministry in 1718, and installed as pastor of the 
church in llingham, which position he held till his 
death. While quite a young man he gained a high 
reputation for scholarship, and he received many testi- 
monials of public respect, both in his earlier and later 
days, lie was opposed to all creeds and confessions 
of faith considered as binding, and is often mentioned 
as the father of American Unitarianism. He had no 
sympathy with the “great revival” of 1740. His name 
is signed to a paper entitled “The Sentiments and 
Desolations of an Association of Ministers, convened 
at Weymouth January 15, 1745,” in which they bear 
testimom' against Wliitetield's “enthusiastic spirit.” 
In 1781 he delivered a sermon on his eighty-fifth birth- 
day, which was published under the title of “ The Old 
Sian’s Calendar.” It lias passed through several edi- 
tions in this country, been reprinted in England, and 
translated into the Dutch language and published in 
Holland. lie died March 8, 1787. lie printed a num- 
ber of occasional sermons. — Sprague, Annals, viii, 1. 

Gay de Vernon, Leonard, a French priest and 
politician, was born at St. Leonard (Limousin) in 1748. 
When the French Devolution broke out he was curate 
of Compeignac, a town near Limoges. Siding at once 
with the people, he was the first to place the Damme \ 
srdmm ficg idem before the Damme salvum fac regem , j 
and, in consequence, was appointed constitutional bish- 
op of Haute- Vienne, March 13, 1791. Sent as deputy ' 
to the Legislatnrc, lie sided with Torne, metropolitan 
of Cher, in demanding that the elergy should tie per- 
mitted to lay aside their peculiar dress. Having been 
re-elected to the Convention, he joined the extreme * 
Republicans, and from the midst of “ La jMontagne” ! 
cast his vote for the death of Louis XVI, and caused 
the arrest of some of the Girondists. In the Council 
of Five Hundred, of which he was a member, lie main- 
tained the same opinions. The Directory, to get rid 
of him, appointed him, June 9, 1798, on a commercial 1 


] mission to Tripoli, in Syria. He afterwards became 
general secretary of the Human republic at Dome, but 
was deposed by Barras, and even forbidden to enter 
Franc". He nevertheless secretly came hack, and re- 
mained hidden in the department of Doubs until June 
18, 1799, when a change of government enabled him 
j to obtain the repeal of the sentence of exile. About 
, 1802 he founded a school in Paris, in connection with 
| several other learned men, but was again exiled in 
1 consequence of the law of Jan. 12, 1810. In 1819 he 
: finally obtained leave to return, and died at Vernon, 
near Limoges, Oct. 20, 1822. See Malml, Ann. niero- 
lagique (1822, p. 99) ; Thiers, IJist. de la Revolution . — 
lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xix, 75 G. 

Gayley, Samvel Maxwell, a Presbyterian min- 
I ister, was born in Co. Tyrone, Ireland, June 4, 1802. 

' He came to this country in 1823, studied in Phikulel- 
. pliia, and was licensed to preach in 1828. In 1832 he 
was installed pastor in Wilmington, Del., where he also 
established t he Wilmington Classical Institute, vliieh 
j he conducted with great success until July 4, 1854, 
when his house was burnt to the ground. In Oct., 
i 1854, he removed to Media, Pa., and established the 
Media Classical Ins itute, which he conducted success- 
fully until his death, Dec. 19, 1862. As an educator of 
youth Mr. Gayley did a great work. He was most 
thorough and conscientious in his instructions, aiming 
to make solid thinkers rather than conceited coxcombs. 
He had more than one thousand youths under his care. 
They were from twenty different states, and from Can- 
ada, Cuba, Ireland, England, Mexico, Poland, Barba- 
docs, India. — Wilson, Presbyterian Historical Almanac, 
1864. 

Ga'za (Heb. Azzah , iTU*, strong , q. d .fortress or 
Valentia, or fern, of goat. Sept, and other Greek writ- 
ers lVfwAf, sometimes confounded with Gazara [q. v.] ; 
“Azzah” in Dent, ii, 23), a city remarkable for its 
early importance and continuous existence, lying 
along the Mediterranean sea-coast, in latitude 31° 29 , 
longitude 34° 29' (Robinson), on the great thorough- 
fare between the head of the Persian Gulf and Hebron, 
as well as between Egypt and Palestine, of which it 
j was indeed the frontier town (Arrian, Exp. Alex, ii, 

: 20). It is chiefly noted as having been one of the cit- 
I ies of the Philistine pentarchy (Josh, xv, 47). It is 
mentioned in Gen. x, 19 as one of the border-cities of 
the Canaanites. Its earliest inhabitants of whom we 
find any mention, though probably not the aborigines, 
are the Acini, who appear to have lived in a semi-no- 
mad state, roving over the neighboring plain and des- 
ert. They were attacked and driven northward by 
“the Caphtorini, who came forth out of Caphtor, and 
they dwelt in their stead” (Dent, ii, 23, with Josh, xiii, 
2, 3 ; see Keil’s note on the latter passage). The Oaph- 
torim and Philistines were identical, or at least differ- 
ent families of the same tribe who afterwards amalga- 
mated and formed the powerful nation of whom we 
read so much in the Bible (comp. Dent, ii, 23; Amos 
ix, 7 ; Gen. x, 14 ; Jer. xlvii, 4). Sec Oaphtouim ; 

1 Tina sttnes. The. time of the conquest of Gaza by 
the Philistines is not known. It must have been long 
before Abraham’s time, for they were then firmly es- 
tablished in the country, and possessed of great power 
(Gen. xxi, 32). Gaza was from the first their princi- 
pal stronghold. Joshua smote the Canaanites as far 
Gaza (Josh, x, 41\ but spared the Annkim (giants) 
that dwelt there (Josh, xi, 21, 22). In the division 
of the land, Gaza fell to the lot of Judah (Josh, xv, 
47), and was taken by him with the coast thereof 
(Judg. i, 18), lint its inhabitants (“Gazites,” Judg. 
xvi, 2; “ Gazathites,” Josh. xiii. 3) were not exter- 
minated (Judg. iii, 3). Gaza was one of the five Phil- 
istine cities which gave each a golden emerod as a 
trespass-offering to the. Lord (1 Sam. vi, 17). Gaza is 
celebrated for the exploit recorded of Samson (Judg. 
xvi, 1-3), who “ took the doors of the gate of the city t 


GAZA 


756 


GAZA 


and the two posts, and wont away with them, bar and 1 
all, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them 
up to the top of a hill that is before Hebron/’ The 
Philistines afterwards took Samson, and put out his 
eyes, and brought him to Gaza, and bound him with 
fetters of brass, and he did grind in the prison-house : ! 
he, however, pulled down the temple of Dagon, god 
of the Philistines, and slew, together with himself, 
‘•all the lords of the Philistines,” besides men and 
women (Jndg. xvi, 21-30). Solomon’s kingdom ex- f 
tended as far as Gaza (1 Kings iv, 24). Put the place 
always appears as a Philistine city in Scripture (.hidg. 
iii, 3; xvi, 1; 1 Sam. vi,17 ; 2 Kings xviii, 8). Pleze- 
kiah smote the Philistines as far as Gaza (2 Kings j 
xviii, 8). Gaza fell into the hands of the Egyptians, 
probably Pharaoh-Necho, as a diversion of Nebuchad- 
nezzar in bis designs against Jerusalem (Jer. xlvii, 1), 
an event to which has been incorrectly referred (Baw- 
linson, Herod, i, 411) the statement of Herodotus (ii. 
150) respecting the capture of CwJytis by the Egyp- 
tians. See Jerusalem. During this period of Jew- 
ish history, it seems that some facts concerning the 
connection of Gaza with the invasion of Sennacherib 
may be added from the inscriptions found at Nineveh 
(Layard’s Xinei'eh and Babylon , p. 144). Sec (T'Nei- ( 
Fon.w Inscriptions. The prophets speak in severe 
terms against it (Jer. xxv, 20; xlvii, 5 ; Amos i, (>, 7 ; 
Zeph. ii, 4; Zech. ix, 5). After the destruction of 
Tyre it sustained a siege of two (Quint. Curt, iv, 0, 7, 
says five) months against Alexander the Great (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xi, 8, 4), a fact that illustrates the propriety 
of its name and its military importance. As Van de 
Velde says (p. 187). it was the key of the country. So 
vigorously was it then defended by the forces under 
the command of tiie eunuch Batis, and of such massive | 
strength were its walls, that the engineers of Alexan- 
der’s army found themselves completely baffled in 
their attempts to effect a breach. They were obliged J 
to erect an enormous mound 250 feet in height, and 
about a quarter of a mile in width, on the south side 
of the town ; and even with this advantage, and the 
use also of the engines that had been employed at the 
siege of Tyre, the besiegers were frequently repulsed, 
and Alexander himself sustained no slight bodily in- 
jury. It was at last carried by escalade, and the gar- 
rison put to the sword. The town itself was not de- 
stroyed, but most of the inhabitants that remained 
were sold into slavery, and a fresh Arab population 
settled in their stead (Arrian, ii, 27). What had hap- 
pened in the times of the Pharaohs (Jer. xlvii, 1) and 
Cambyses (Pomp. Mel. i, 11) happened again in t lie 
struggles between the Ptolemies and the Seleucidne 
(Polvbius, v, G8 ; xvi, 40). Jonathan Maceabneus (1 
Macc. xi, 01) destroyed its suburbs; Simon Maccabe- 
us (1 Mace, xiii, 43) took the city itself, thongli not 
without extraordinary efforts. Alexander Janmeus 
spent a year (B.C. eir. 00) in besieging it and punish- 
ing its inhabitants (Josephus, A nf. xiii, 13, 3). The 
place was rebuilt by Gabinius (Josephus. Ant. xiv, 5, j 
o). It was among the cities given by Augustus to 
Herod (Josephus, Ant. xv, 7, 3), after whose deatli it 
was united to the province of Syria (Josephus, Ant. 
xvii, 11, 4). It was near Gaza — on the road from Je- 
rusalem to that place — that Philip baptized the eunuch 
“ of great authority under Candace, queen of the Ethi- 
opians” (Acts viii, 20 sq.). As Gaza lay some dis- 
tance from the sea (Arrian, ii, 20), it had a port on the 
sea (? WtZatoiV Xipiy, Ptol. v, 10) called VdZa irpitr 
OdXaaauv, “ Gaza on the sea ;” called also J Tajnma (o 
Mmm'/mc), which Constantine called Consfnntia, from 
the name of his son, giving it, at the same time, mu- 
nicipal rights. Julian took away this name, and or- 
dered it to be called the port of Gaza. Subsequent 
emperors restored the name and the privileges of the 
place. It was afterwards called the sea-coast of Gaza. 
Further particulars may be read in Behind (Paler stina, 
p. 791 sq.), where mention is made, from Pausanias, , 


of something like a parallel to the feat of Samson; 
and where, as well as in Kuinul (in loe.) and in Winer 
( Pea l icin 'terbuch in voc.), explanatory circumstances 
may be found of the words in Acts viii, 2G — : *Gaza, 
which is desert an expression that appears to refer 
rather to the road (Acer) from Jerusalem in that direc- 
tion than to Gaza itself (see Bobinson, Researches, ii, 
(HO). Besides the ordinary road from Jerusalem by 
Bamleh to Gaza, there was another, more favorable 
for carriages (Acts viii, 28), further to the south, 
through Hebron, and thence through a district com- 
paratively without towns, and much exposed to the 
incursions of people from the desert. The matter is 
discussed bv Baumcr in one of his Beit r aye. incorpo- 
rated in the last edition of his Paliistina; also by Bob- 
inson in the Appendix to his second volume. The 
latter writer suggests a very probable place for the 
baptism, viz. at the water in the tcady el-IIasy , be- 
tween Elcuthcropolis and Gaza, not far from the old 
sites of Lachish and Eglon. The legendary scene of 
the baptism is at Beit-sur , between Jerusalem and He- 
bron : the tradition having arisen apparently from the 
opinion that Philip himself was travelling southwards 
from Jerusalem. But there is no need to suppose that 
he went to Jerusalem at all. Lange (A post. Zeitalt. 
ii, 109) gives a spiritual sense to the word trnjpoc. 
About A. I). 65 Gaza was laid in ruins by the Jews, in 
re venire for the massacre of their brethren in Caesarea 
(Josephus, IJur, ii, 18, 1). It soon recovered again; 
and it was one of the chief cities of Syria during the 
reigns of Titus and Adrian (see Smith’s Diet, of Class. 
Genyr. s. v.). Though Christianity was early intro- 



duced into Gaza, the city long remained a stronghold 
of idolatry. In the beginning of the 5th century its 
bishop received authority to demolish its temples and 
build a large Christian church (Sozomen, //. E. ii, f\ 
In A. I). G34 Gaza was taken by the Moslems, and its 
splendid church turned into a mosque (Elmakin, Hist. 
Baracen. ch. ii, p. 20). From this period it gradually 
declined under the blight of Islamism, and the Cru- 
saders found it deserted. They built a castle on the 
hill, which became the nucleus of a new town (WiViam 
of Tyre , xvii, 12). In the 12th century we find the 
place garrisoned by the Knights Templars. It finally 
fell into the hands of Saladin, A.D. 1170, after the dis- 
astrous battle of Hattin. 

The modern town is called Ghuzzeh , and contains 
about 15.000 inhabitants. It resembles a cluster of 
large villages. The principal one stands on the flat 
top of a low hill, and has some good stone houses, 
though now much dilapidated. The others lie on the 
plain below; their houses are mean mud hovels, and 
their lanes narrow and filthy. The hill appears to he 
composed in a great measure of the accumulated ruins 
of successive cities. We can see fragments of massive 
walls, and pieces of columns cropping up everywhere 
from the rubbish. Traces of ruins have been discov- 
ered at various places among the sand-hills to the west, 
which are supposed to be those of primeval Gaza. The 
great mosque crowns the hill, and can he distinguish- 
ed in the distance by its tall minaret and pointed roof. 
The town has no walls or defences of any kind. Its 
inhabitants have been long known as a fierce and law- 
less set of fanatics. Between Gaza and the sea there 
is a broad Belt completely covered with mounds of 
drifting sand. A mile east of the town a long ridge 
of low hills runs parallel to the coast line. Between 


GAZiEUS 


757 


GAZELLE 


the sand and the hills the ground is very fertile, and I 
supplies the town with abundance of the choicest fruit 
and vegetables. The climate of the place is almost | 
tropical, hut it has deep wells of excellent water. 
There arc a few palm-trees in the town, and its fruit- , 
orchards are very productive. But the chief feature I 
of the neighborhood is the wide-spread olive-grove to 
the N. and N.E. Ilencc arises a considerable manu- 
facture of soap, which Ghuzzeh exports in large quanti- ' 
ties. It has also an active trade in corn. For a full 
account of nearly all that has been written concerning 
the topographical and historical relations of Gaza, see 
Fitter’s Erdkunde, xvi, 45-GO. Among the travellers ' 
who have described the place we may mention espe- 
cially Fobinson ( Biblical Researches , ii, 375 sq.) and 
Van do Velde (Syria and Palestine , ii, 179-188) ; also 
Thomson ( Land and Book , ii, 331 sq.). The last writer 
speaks of the great extent of corn-land near Gaza, and 
of the sound of mill-stones in the city.- Even now its 
bazaars are better than those of Jerusalem. “Those 
travelling towards Egypt naturally lay in here a stock 
of provisions and necessaries for the desert, while 
those coming from Egypt arrive at Gaza exhausted, 
and must of course supply themselves anew” (Fobin- 
son, ii, 378). The place is often mentioned in the Tal- 
mud (Otho, Lex. Rabb. p. 258). See Cellarii Notit. ii, 
603 sq. ; Siber, De Gaza (Lips. 1715); Burscher, De 
Gaza narr t. (Lips. 17G7), and De Gaza derelieta (Lips. 
17G8). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 

Gazaeuo. Sec Gazet. 

Gazam. See Palmer-worm. 

Gaz'ara [usually Gaza / ra~\ (// or rd YdZapa), a 
town of Palestine, often mentioned in the Apocrypha 
and by Josephus as the scene of many battles in the 
Maccnhwan period, and as alternately possessed by 
each of the opposing parties. When Gorgias, general 
of Antioehus Epiphanes, was defeated by Judas Mac- 
eabaeus, his forces were pursued “unto Gazara, and 
unto the plains of Idumrea, and Azotus, and Jamnia” 
(a og r«s>/owiq etc., 1 Macc. iv, 15; /i£\pi Vaddpior, 
etc., Josephus, A nt. xii, 7, 4) ; Nicnnor was also defeated 
by Judas, and pursued from “Adasa to Gazara” (at; 
F itZifpa, 1 Macc. vii, 45). After the defeat of the Idu- 
mse-ans, Judas went against Timotheus, who fled to Ga- 
zara for refuge. Judas, after several days’ siege, took 
the city (2 JMacc. x, 32-37 ; comp. Josephus, Ant. xii, 8, 
1-4) ; many of its towers were burnt, and Timotheus 
himself killed (2 Macc. 1. c.). When Bucchides re- 
turned to Jerusalem, after the defeat of Jonathan, he 
fortified several cities, and among them Bethsura and 
Gazara, and the tower (dnpa) of Jerusalem (1 Macc. 
ix, 52 ; Josephus, Ant. xiii, 1, 3), and it was again forti- 
fied by Simon when it had been recovered by the Jews 
(1 Macc. xiv, 7, 33, 34 ; Josephus, Ant. xiii, G, G; War , 
i, 2, 2). Simon built himself a house at Gazara, and 
also made it the abode of his son John, the captain of 
all his hosts (1 Macc. xiii, 53 ; xvi, 1, 19, 21). It is de- 
scribed as being “a very strong hold” (o xvpwpa, 2 
Mace, x, 32; VdZapa . . . ova a a oxvpdv tpvati, comp. 
Josephus, Ant. viii, G, 1). Gazara is mentioned with 
Joppa in the treaty of friendship between Hyrcanus 
and the Bom an s after the death of Antioehus VII, Si- 
dstes, B.C. cir. 129 8 (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 9, 2; comp, 
Clinton, F. If. iii, 332). The Gaza in 1 Macc. (xiii, 
43) and the Gadara in Josephus (Ant. v, 1, 22; xii, 7, 
4) should doubtless be read Gazara (comp. Pridcaux, 
Connection , lib. iv, p. 2G7, note ; Feland, Palcest. p. G79). 
It may perhaps be identified with the Gadaris of Stra- 
bo (xvi, 2, I)idot. cd., p. 64G), also described by him as 
a town not far from Azotus (Feland, Pahest. 1. c. ; Cel- 
larius, Geog. ii, 530). See also Gazicra. 

It is mentioned by Eusebius ( Onomasticon , s. v. r«- 
£ep) as being four miles from Nicopolis or Ennnaus, 
but it was more probably nearer the sea-coast, as in 
the Maccabees and Josephus it is nearly always coup- 
led with Joppa, Azotus, and Jamnia (1 Macc. xiv, 34; 


xv, 28, 35 ; iv, 15 ; Josephus, Ant. xii, 7, 4 ; xiii, G, 6 ; 
9, 2; i, 2, 2), and again in distinct language as 

bordering upon Azotus (1 JMacc. xiv, 34). it appears 
to have been the same place with Gazer or Gezer 
(q. v.), a town frequently mentioned in the O. T. un- 
der smilar connections. As David chased the Philis- 
tines from Geba to Gazer (2 Sam. v, 25 ; 1 Chron. xiv, 
1G; dypi ttoXhoij VaZapiov, Josephus, Ant. vii, 4, 1), so 
Judas defeated Gorgias at Ennnaus and pursued him 
to Gazara (1 JMacc. iv, 15). Pharaoh, the father-in- 
law of Solomon, took Gazer (1 Kings ix, 1G, 17), then 
a Canaauitish city, burnt it, slew the Canaanites that 
were in it, and gave it in dowry to his daughter, Solo- 
mon’s wife (compare Josephus, Ant. viii, G, 1). This 
must have occurred during the reign of David, or early 
in that of Solomon, and it seems out of the question to 
suppose that Pharaoh, when the lsraelitish kingdom 
was so powerful, could have advanced far into the in- 
terior of the country. The site near the sea-coast is 
therefore confirmed by this circumstance. 

Gazara may be identified with the modern village 
Yazur , 3| miles E. of Joppa; though as a coast town 
and a place of strength in the time of the Maccabees 
it is unlikely that it should have so entirely lost its 
importance (comp. Kitto, Palestine , 5, G95 n.). It must 
be remembered, however, that names sometimes linger 
in the neighborhood of sites. — Kitto, s. v. 

Gazares, a sect of Paulieians, so named from Ga- 
zarre, a town of Dalmatia. They were particularly 
distinguished by this tenet— that no human govern- 
ment had any right to sentence men to death for any 
crime whatever. See Pauliciaxs. 

Gaz'atliite [usually Ga'z ithite] (Heb. with the 
art . ha-Azzathi', Sept. 6 IVisaToc, A.V. “the 

Gazathites”), a designation (Josh, xiii, 3) of the inhab- 
itants of the city of Gaza (q. v.), elsewhere rendered 
Gazites (Judg. xvi, 2). 

Gazelle (Antilope dorcas ), an animal of the genus 
Antdopulce , probably designated by the Gr. term cop- 
Kag (comp. Acts ix, 3G) and the lleb. *2 2, tsebi' (ren- 
dered “roe” in 2 Sam. ii, 18 ; 1 Chron. xii, 8; Prov. 
vi, 5; Cant, ii, 7, 9, 17; iii, 5; viii, 14; Isa. xiii, 14; 
and “ roebuck” in Deut. xii, 15, 22 ; xiv, 5 ; 1 Kings iv, 
23), or in the feminine form tsebiyah' (“roe,” 

Cant, iv, 5 ; vii, 3) ; “ both terms, however, being ap- 
plicable to the whole group; and the Hebrew name is 
by distant nations now used for allied species ■which 
are unknown in Arabia and Syria. Of this sub-genus 
gazella at least 011 c species, but move probably four or 
five, still inhabit the uplands and deserts of Egypt, 
Arabia, and the eastern and southern holders of Pal- 
estine. All these species are nearly allied, the largest 
not measuring more than two feet in height at the 
shoulder, and the least, the corinna, not more than 
about twenty inches. They are graceful and elegant in 
form, with limbs exceedingly slender, and have large 
and soft eyes, lyrated horns, black, wrinkled, and stri- 
ated — most robust in snb-yutturosa and kevella , most 
slender in corinna , and smallest in com. Their livery 
is more or less buff and dun, white beneath, with small 
tufts of hair or brushes on the fore-knees ; they have 
all a dark streak passing from each car through the 
eyes to the nostrils, and a band of the same color from 
tiie elbow of the fore-leg along the sides to the flank, 
excepting the corinna, whose markings are more ru- 
fous and general colors lighter. Most, if not all, have 
a feeble bleating voice, seldom uttered, are unsurpass- 
ed in graceful timiditj', gregarious in habit, and resi- 
dents on the open deserts, where they are unceasingly 
watchful, and prepared to flee with such speed that 
greyhounds are liable to be killed by over-exertion in 
the chase” (Kitto). They roam over the plains of 
Syria sometimes in herds of one thousand (Bussell, 
Aleppo , ii, 14). Their flesh is lean, but highly prized 
(Prosp. Alpin. 1 list. nat. sEg. iv, 9). They are often 


GAZEE 


758 


GEBA 


made the symbol of female beauty (Cant, ii, 9, 17 ; viii, 
14) bv Orientals (Seth, tul ben Zohair , p. 98 sq. ; Dcip- 
ko, Comment, z. Holiest, p. 97 ; KosenmUlIer, Morgenl. 
iv, 1*29). See Thomson, Land and Book, i, *251 sq. ; 
Kelly's Syria, p. 38 sq. See Antelope ; Deep.. 



Ga'zer (2 Sam. v, 25; 1 Chron. siv, 1G). See 
Gezek. 

Gaze'ra, the name of a place and also of a man in 
the Apocrypha. 

1. ( tu VdZqoav. r. r«ffijp«,Vnlg. Gazeron , (Hazard), 
the town of Palestine (1 Mace, iv, 15; vii, 45), else- 
where called Gazaiia (q. v.). 

2. (KaZijpd v. r. VaZijpa, Vulg. Gaze), one of the 
Temple-servants whose “sons” returned from Baby- 
lon (1 Esdr. v, 31); evidently the Gazzam (q. v.) of 
the Heb. text (Ezra ii, 48). 

Gazet (Latinized Gazieus ), Guillaume, a French 
ecclesiastical historian and theologian, was born at Ar- 
ras in 1554, and died in the same city Aug. 25, 1 Gil. 
lie was for a time professor of belkv-lettres at Lou- 
vain, quitting that position about 1580. lie was also 
canon of the collegiate Church of St. Peter of Aire, and 
subsequently cure of the parish of St. Marie Madeleine 
of Ar~as. Gazet was an ardent student, especially of 
hagiography, but is by some regarded as credulous and 
inexact in giving the results of his investigations, 
though the Flemish historians and litterateurs, who 
have treated of his epoch, bestow* high praise upon 
him. His most noted work, the Ecclesiastical His- 
tory of the Low Countries, published after his death 
under the care of his nephew, G. Montearre, contains 
much of the material found in his other writings bear- 
ing on the subject, only recast to suit it. Among his 
works are, J/istoire dc la vie , mort, passion et miracles 
des Saints desquels V By Use euthulique fait fete et me- 
moire, etc. (t. i, Arras, 2584, 12mo; t. ii, Rouen, 1G05, 
less carefully printed than the i ; a 2d edit. Rouen, 1619. 
4to) : — Mugdalis , tragadiu Sacra (Douav, 1589, 8vo) : 

• — La Somme des Peekes et le rem'ade d'ieevx, ete. (ibid. 
1592,8vo): — Uymnonnn Libri sejrtem in CliristiJesu ete. 
yloriam fib. 1592, sin. 4to ; the poems of Robert Obrizc, 
with epistolary dedication and laudatory verses): — 
L" Or dre et Suite, des Eresques et Archcresques de Cam- 
bray , ete. (ibid. 1597, 12mo): — Thesaur. J'recum et Li- 
tamur. Script. Sacra*, etc. (ibid. 1G02, 18mo) : — hliota de 
Vita et Moribus Religiosorum , etc. (ibid. 1006, lSmo) : — 
Tableaux Sacr< z de la Gavle Bely. etc. (ibid. 1010, 8vo, 
of which the Biblioth. Sacrie forms the second ] a*D : 
— Brieve hist, de la sacree Manne , et de la sainte Chan- 
delle, etc. (ibid. 2012, lOmo; new editions 1025, 1082, 
1710, 1738, Arras, 12mo): — and the following posthu- 
mous works: Les J Acs des Saints, avec des exhortations 
Morales (Rheims, 1013, 2 vtds. 8vo): — JlJstoire ecclesi- 
astiqve des Pays-Bas , etc. (Arras and Valenciennes, 
1014, I to): — Le Consolateur des Ames Scrupulcuses, etc. 


(Arras, 1017, 18mo): — Les Regies et Constitutions des 
Ordres r formes, etc. (ibid. 1023, 18mo). Gazet wrote 
also Le Sucre Banquet : — Exercises spirit uels, with Lit li- 
nks pour tuiite la semaine, and some ascetic tracts, pour 
la consolation et instruction du peuple Chrestien. — Iloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xix, 781-784. (J. \Y. M.) 

Ga'zez (Heb. Gaz?z / , t7!>, shearer; Sept. TtZovt), 
the name of two men, supposed by some to have been 
identical. 

1. A “son” of Caleb (son of Ilezron, son of Judah) 
bv bis concubine Ephali (1 Chron. ii, 40). B.C. cir. 
1850. 

2. A grandson of the same Caleb, through another 

of his sons Ilaran (1 Chron. ii, 40). l’.C. post 1850. 

Ga'zite (II cb. in the plur. with the art. hn-Azza- 
thimf , ; Sept, oi Fo^oToi, Vulgate Philisihiim 

A. V. “the Gaziles”), the designation (Judg. xvi, 2) 
of the inhabitants of Gaza (q. v.) ; elsewhere rendered 
“ Gazathites” (q. v.\ 

Gaz'zam (Heb. Gazzam ' , devouring [comp. 

Locust], or [Ftirst] swaggerer ; Sept. Fi^/i and lbp< 
£«/i,V nig. Gazam and Gezeni), the progenitor of one of 
the families of Nethinim that returned from the cap- 
tivity with Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 48 ; Neh. vii, 51). 

B. C. ante 530. 

Geb. See Locust. 

Ge'ba, the name of at least two places in Central 
1 Palestine. 

X. (Heb. Ge'ba, VZZ, often with the rat. i. e. the frilly 
in panse “ Ga'ba ,” 2*^*, Josh, xviii, 24; Ezra ii, 20; 

I Neh. vii, 30; yet this form is also Anglicized “Gc- 
’ ba” in 2 Sam. v, 25; 2 Kings xxiii, 8; Neb. xi, 31), 
a city of Benjamin wdth “ villages” (Josh, xviii, 24; 
j on its settlement, see 1 Chron. viii, 0), hence more fully 
| u Geba of Benjamin” (1 Kings xv, 22; 1 Sam. xiii, 16 
[Josephus Gibcon, To/jawr, Ant. vi, 0, n. ; for which, 
perhaps, compare 1 Chron. viii, 29 ; ix, 35), situated oil 
the northern border of the kingdom of Judah (2 Kings 
xxiii, 8 : Zcch. xiv, 10), near to Gibeah, apparently 
towards the east or north-east (Isa. x, 29; Josh, xviii, 
24, 28). It is often asserted that Geba and Gibeah were 
names of the same place ; the A.V. in at least 1 Sam. 
xiii, 15, 10, confounds them ; the Sept, and Vulg. ren- 
1 der both indifferently 1 y Vaj3aa and Gabaci; and in 
two passages (Judg. xx, 10, 33) the same error has crept 
j into the original. Schwarz’s identification of these 
places (Phys. Peserip. of Palest, p. 132) is full of errors 
in locality. The two names are indeed only mascu- 
line and feminine forms of the same word, signifying 
“hill ;” but that they were two different places is evi- 
dent from Josh, xviii, 24, compare 28; 1 Sam. xiii, 2, 
compare 3: Isa. x, 29. In 2 Sam. xx, 8, the name 
“Geba” stands erroneously for Gideon (compare 1 
j Chron. xiv, 10). Gel a, with its “suburbs,” was as- 
i signed to the priests (Josh, xxi, 17 ; 1 Chron. vi, 00). 
The Philistines were smitten from Geba unto Gazer by 
David (2 Sam. v, 25). As it lay* on the frontiers of 
Judah and Israel, Asa rebuilt Geba and Mizpali with 
the stones of Ilam all (1 Kings xv, 22; 2 Chron. xvi, 
0). “ From Geba (in the north) to Beersheba” (in the 
south) (2 Kings xxiii, 8) expressed the whole extent 
of the separate kingdom of Judah, just as “ from Dan 
to Beersheba” expressed the w hole length of Palestine. 
It would seem, from the manner in which Geba (Gaba) 
and llamali are. coupled in Neh. vii, 30, that they were 
very near each other. Belaud (Palast. p. 802) thinks 
it the Gebath {TZPf) or Gibbethon (”r:^) mentioned 
by Talmndieal writers in connection with Antipatris 
(comp. 2 Sam. v, 25). During the wars of the earlier 
part of the reign of Saul, Geba was held as a garrison 
by the Philistines (1 Sam. xiii, 3), but they were eject- 
I ed by Jonathan, a feat which, while it added greatly 
to his renown, exasperated them to a more overwhelm- 
ing invasion . Later in the same campaign w*e find it re- 


GEBAL 


759 


GEBAL 


ferred to in defining the position of the two rocks which 
stood in the ravine helow the garrison of Michmash, 
in terms which fix Geba on the south and Michmash 
on the north of the ravine (1 Sam. xiv, 5: the A. Y. 
Inis here Gibeah). Exactly in accordance with this is 
the position of the modern village of Jebti , which stands 
picturesquely on the top of its steep terraced hill, on 
the very edge of the great wady Suweinit, looking 
northwards to the opposite village, which also retains 
its old name of Mukhinas. (See Stanley, Palest, p. “210, 
489 ; Porter, Iland-book for Syria, p. 215.) The names, 
and the agreement of the situation with tin require- 
ments of the story of Jonathan, make the identification 
all hut certain ; hut it is still further confirmed by the 
list of Benjamite towns visited by the Assyrian army 
on their road through the country southward to Jeru- 
salem, which we have in Isa. x, 28-32, where the mi- 
nute details — the stoppage of the heavy baggage (A. 
Y. “carriages”), which could not be got across the 
broken ground of the wady at Michmash ; then the 
passage of the ravine by the lighter portion of the 
army, and the subsequent bivouac (“lodging,” “jib *2 
— rest for the night) at Geba on the opposite side — 
are in exact accordance with the nature of the spot. 
Standing as it does on the south bank of this impor- 
tant wady — one of the most striking natural features 
of this part of the country — the mention of Geba as 
the northern boundary of the lower kingdom is very 
significant. Thus commanding the pass, its fortifica- 
tion by Asa (1 Kings xv, 22 ; 2 Chron. xvi, G) is also 
quite intelligible. It continues to be named with Micli- 
mash to the very last (Nell. xi, 31). Geba is probably 
intended by the “ Gibeah-in-the-field” of Jtulg. xx, 31, 
to which its position is very applicable. The “fields” 
are mentioned again as late as Neh. xii, 29. The town 
was occupied by the Benjamites after the captivity 
(Ezra ii, 2G). It appears to have been unknown to 
Eusebius and Jerome (0 nomast icon, s. v. Tafiai, Cube ; 
comp. Belaud, Palest, p. 70S), The village of Jeba is 
small, and is half in ruins. Among these are occa- 
sionally seen large hewn stones indicating antiquity. 
There is here the ruins of a square tower, almost solid, 
and a small building having the appearance of an an- 
cient church (Bobinson, Researches, ii. 113; Bib. Sac. 
1844, i, 59S-G02 : Lat. Researches, p.288).— Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. See Giueaii. 

2. The Geba (r«t/3at v. r. T aijSdu) between which 
and Scythopolis (therefore S. of Mount Gilboa) Hol- 
of ernes is said to have made his encampment (Judith, 
iii, 10), must be the Jeba on the road between Samaria 
and Jenin, about 45' S. of Sanur (Yan de Yelde, Nar- 
rat. i, 3G7), with evident traces of antiquity (Wilson, 
Lands of Bible, ii, 84 , Bobinson, i, 440). The Yulg. 
strangely renders venit ad Idunueos in terrain Gabba. 

Ge'bal (kindred with the Arabic Jebel, a moun- 
tain ), the name of two places in Palestine (although 
some regard them as one, Schwarz, Palest, p. 03), both 
doubtless so called as being situated in a mountainous 
region. The root is the lleb. ynbaV, to tn*ist ; 
whence ^.25, a line or natural boundary, such as 
mountain ranges usually form. There seems also to 
have been an orthography ^2?, Go'bel (F6/3f\, Etiseb. 
Onomast. s. v. RvfiXog; eonip. .1 1 cobile, i. e. EI-Gobel, 
of the Peutinger tables), whence Gobolites — Sobal. 
The Gablan ("|^2S) in the Mishna, along with Galilee 
(Sotah, fob 19, G), arose out of the “bia, or Jaulan , 
which is considered as the eastern border of Galilee 
(Josephus, ir«r, iv, 1, 1). 

1. (Heb. GebaV , ^>2} ; Sept. B//3Atoe, Yulg. Giblii , 
Ezek. xxvii, 9), better known from the Gentile form 
Giulites ( n 525, Sept. P«/3\i, Yulg. omits, Josh, xiii, 
5; plur. Sept. VifiXtoi, Yulg. Giblii, Anth. 

Yers. “stone-squarers,” 1 Kings v, 18 [32]), the in- 
habitants of the city and district of Gebal, in Phoeni- 


cia, 34° 7 ' N. latitude, 35° 42' E. longitude, on the 
shore of the Mediterranean, under Mount Lebanon. 
(See a passage from Lucian, quoted by Beland, Pabvsl. 
p. 269.) “The land of the Giblites,” with “all Leb- 
anon,” was assigned to the Israelites by the original 
appointment (Josh, xiii, 5) ; but it does not seem that 
they ever possessed themselves of it. Gebal was call- 
ed Brjblos (BoySXoc, sometimes B«/3\oc) by the Greeks, 
and so the Sept, has it in one passage. It was an im- 
portant place, and celebrated for the’ birth and wor- 
ship of Adonis, the Syrian Tammuz. Pliny and other 
Boman authors call it Gabale ( Hist . Nat. v, 20). The 
Giblites, or Byblians, seem to have been pre-eminent 
in the arts of stone-carving (2 Kings v, 18) and ship- 
calking (Ezek. xxvii, 9); but, according to Strabo, 
their industry su tiered greatly from the robbers infest- 
ing the sides of Mount Lebanon. Pompey not only 
destroyed the strongholds from whence these pests is- 
sued, but freed the city from a tyrant (Strabo, xvi, 2, 
18). Some have confounded Gebal, or Byblus, with 
the Gabala of Strabo, just below Laodicea, and conse- 
quently many leagues to the north, the ruins and site 
of which, still called Jebili, are so graphically de- 
scribed by Maundrell ( Early Travellers in Palestine, by 
Wright, p. 394). By Moroni ( Dizion . Bedes.') they 
are accurately distinguished under their respective 
names. Finally, Byblus became a Christian see in the 
patriarchate of Antioch, subject to the metropolitan 
see of Tyre (Beland, Paltest. p. 214 sq.). It shared 
the usual vicissitudes of Christianity in these parts; 
and even now furnishes episcopacy with a title. It 
is called Jebail by the Arabs, thus reviving the old 
Biblical name. It is seated on a rising ground near 
the sea, at the foot of Lebanon, which here approaches 
close to the coast. It is walled on the three sides to- 
wards the land, and open on the west towards the sea, 
being perhaps about half a mile in circuit. Within 
the wall, which seems to be of the age of the Crusades, 
the chief building is an old castle, which has received 
modern repairs, and is now used as the abode of the 
agha or commandant. There are three or four open 
and lofty buildings belonging to the chief people of 
the place, a mosque with a low minaret, and an old 
Maronite church of good masonry; but the houses 
generally are of poor construction, and nearly half the 
space within the walls is occupied with the gardens 
of the inhabitants. The population is estimated at 
600, none of whom are Jews (Maundrell’s Journey, p. 
45; Burckhardt’s Syria , p. 180; Buckingham’s Arab 
Tribes, p. 455 ; Pococke, Travels, ii, 98 ; Wilson, Lands 
of Bible, ii, 40). Its antiquity is attested by multi- 
tudes of granite columns which are built into the walls 
and castles, choke up the small harbor, and lie scat- 
tered over the fields. The substructions of the old 
castle are of bevelled masonry, and some of the stones 
are nearly twenty feet long. Beautiful sarcophagi are 
frequently dug out of the ruins. The columns are of 
the Grecian style, like those of the other cities of an- 
cient Phoenicia ( Bibliotheca Sacra , 1848, p. 7). See 
Byblus. 

2. (Heb. GebaV, b'ZZ, Sept. r*/3«\, Yulg. Gebal; 
Psa. lxxxiii, 7), a district, or perhaps sovereignty, 
south of Judaea, in the land of Edom. Gebal signify- 
ing a mountain, apparently belongs not to the most 
ancient times, as it does not occur when the Israelites 
were actually in this quarter, but is first found in Psa. 
lxxxiii, which was probably written in the time of Je- 
hoshaphat. That king had, in the beginning of his 
reign, humbled the Philistines and Arabians (2 Chron. 
xvii, 9, 10), and still more recently had assisted Ahab 
against the Syrians (ib. ch. xviii). Now, according to 
the poetic language of the Psalmist, there were symp- 
toms of a general rising against him : on the south, 
besides these Gehalites, the other Edomites, the Ish- 
maelites, and the IJagarenes ; on the south-east, Moab 
and Ammon ; along the whole line of the south-west 
coast (and, with Jehoshaphat’s maritime projects, this 


GEBALENE 


GED ALIAII 


YGO 


would naturally disturb him most; see 2 Chron. xx, ! 
3G), the Amalckites, Philistines, and Phoenicians, or 
inhabitants of Tyre; with the aid and comfort even 
of Assur, i. c. the Syrians, or Assyrians, from the [ 
more distant north. The country south of the Dead 
Sea, and on the east of the Ghor, or great Jordan val- 
ley, bears the same name (Jebal) at the present day , 
(Burckhardt, p. 401 sq.), and is doubtless the same as 
the Gebal of Scripture, the Gebalths (or, rather, Gobo- 
litis) of Josephus (ro/3oA7r<c, Ant. ii, 1, 2; iii, 2, 1; 
r«/3aAirai, Ant. ix, 0, 1), and the Gebalene of the Ro- 
mans (Kuscb. and Steph. Byz. have r«/3«Anr, , 

VifiaXa, -A?;r/y). Josephus says, indeed, that tlie sons 
of Eliphaz, son of Esau, settled in that part of Tdnmasa 
which was called Gebalitis, and that denominated 
from A maleic Amalekitis: ‘‘For Idumaea,” he adds, 
“ was the name of a large country, which in its sev- 
eral parts retained the names of its peculiar inhabit- 
ants” {Ant. ii, 2.1). AVe may therefore take Gebal 
as the name of the northernmost portion of Idumaea, 
which was nearest to Palestine. In Judith iii, 1, Lat. 
Vers., and also in the writings of the Crusaders, it is 
called Syria Sobal (q. v.). The Jerusalem Targum 
generally reads Mount Gciblah (n213! fcfTi:) instead 
of Mount Seir; so also the Samar, in Deut. xxxii, 2. 
Seir, however, was the ancient name of Edom, where- 
as Gebal was only a part of it. (See Reland, Paleest. 
p. 84 ; Michaelis, Supplem. i, 2G1 sq. ; Robinson, Re- 
searches, ii, 552.) — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See IDU- 
MEA. 

Gebalene. See Gebal, 2. 

Gebath. See Geba, 1. 

Ge'ber (Heb. id. *C3, a valiant man, as often; 
Sept. rd(3}](), Josephus Vaj3aprjs t Ant. viii, 2, 3), the 
son of Uri, and one of Solomon’s purveyors, having 
sole (i. e. supreme) jurisdiction (-"IS!) over Gilead (1 
Kings iv, 19) ; from which fact he appears to be the 
same as Ben-Geber (“son of Gebcr”) mentioned in 
ver. 13 as having charge of the same region, unless, 
indeed, the latter were a deputy or assistant to his fa- 
ther. B.C. 1013. See also Ezion-Geber. 

Gebelin. See Court, Antoine. 

Gebhard, Truciisess, archbishop of Cologne, was 
born at Waldburg Nov. 10, 1547 ; was made preben- 
dary of Augsburg in 15G2, of Strasburg in 15G7, of Co- 
logne in 1570, and in 1577 elector and archbishop of 
Cologne. In 1582 lie became a Protestant, and in the 
following year he married the countess Agnes von 
Mansfeld. He proclaimed unrestricted religious lib- 
erty, and intended to convert his spiritual into a tem- 
poral electorate. II is plan was highly approved by 
the people and the nobility, but the cathedral chapter 
opposed it with all its might. The pope fulminated a 
ban against him, and the emperor, Rudolph II, declared 
him deposed. The Protestant princes ultimately de- 
serted him, and the newly-elected archbishop, duke Er- 
nest of Bavaria, overcame him by force of arms (1584). 
lie tied to Holland, but not receiving any help there, 
he returned to Germany, where he vainly solicited the 
assistance of the Protestant princes, as well as peti- 
tioned queen Elizabeth of England for aid in regaining 
his bishopric; he finally retired to Strasburg, where 
he officiated as dean of the cathedral, and died May 
21, 1G01. See Kohler, De act is etfatis Gebkardi (Altd. 
1723); Barthold, in Rt timer's Historisches Taschenbuch 
(1840) ; Pierer, Universal- Leocikon , s. v. 

Ge'bim (I Icl>. Gebim', cisterns [as in Jer. 

xiv. 3, “pits”], or locusts [as in Isa. xxxiii,4]; Sept. 
Ttfilhici Vnlg. Gci.bini), a small place a short distance 
north of Jerusalem, mentioned between Madmenah and 
Nob, Isa. x, 31, where its inhabitants are prophetically 
described as fleeing at the approach of the invading 
Assyrian army. Eusebius ami Jerome (Onomast. s. v. 
Vtfitvet* Gebin) identify it with u Geba , a village five 
miles from Guphna towards Neapolis;” and Schwarz 


( Palest . p. 131) identifies it with the Gob of 2 Sam. xxi, 
18) ; but both these are at variance with the order of 
the places named by the prophet. The associated lo- 
calities require a position corresponding to that of the 
present El-Isawiyth, a little village in a valley near 
the road leading N.E. from Jerusalem (Robinson, Re- 
searches, ii, 108). See Nob. It probably derived its 
lleb. name from the vicinity of excavations (3^-"n = 
the ditches; comp. 2 Kings iii, 1G). 

Gedali'ah (Heb. Gedalgali , made great by 

Jehovah , Ezra x, 18; Jer. xl, 5, 8 ; xli, 1G; Zeph. i, 1 ; 
elsewhere in the prolonged or full form Gedahja hu, 

; Sept, usually PoJoAin, Vulgate Godolia ), the 
name of five men. 

1. The son and second assistant of Jeduthun in the 
Levitical choir of the Temple in the time of David (1 
Chron. xxv, 3, 9). B.C. 1013. 

2. The (son of Amariah and father of Cushi) grand- 
father of t!ie prophet Zephaniah (Zeph. i, 1). B.C. 
ante G35. 

3. Son of Pashur, and one of the Jewish nobles 
who conspired to accuse and imprison Jeremiah (Jer. 
xxxviii, 1). B.C. 589. 

4. The son of Aliikam (Jeremiah’s protector, Jer. 
xxvi, 24), and grandson of Shaphan, the secretary of 
king Josiah. After the destruction of the Temple, 
B.C. 588, Nebuchadnezzar departed from Judaea, leav- 
ing Gcdaliah with a Chnldivan guard (Jer. xl, 5) at 
Mizpah, a strong (1 Kings xv, 22) town, six miles 
north of Jerusalem, to govern, as tributary (Josephus, 
Ant. x, 9, 1) of the king of Bal ylon, the vine-dressers 
and husbandmen (Jer. Iii, 1G) who were exempted from 
captivity. He was probably of the number of those who 
left the city at the instance of the prophet, justly de- 
spairing of the successful defence of a place which God 
had abandoned. Gcdaliah had inherited his father’s 
respect for Jeremiah (Jer. xl, 5 sq.), and was, more- 
over, enjoined by Nelmzaradan to look to his safety 
and welfare. Gedaliah was in every way worthy of 
the difficult post lie had to fill ; and lie adopted, rs the 
principle of his conduct, that submission to existing 
circumstances which was requisite in one who be- 
lieved that Judah had. according to the declared will 
of God, been justly doomed and punished for her in- 
iquities, and who yet believed that his loving kindness 
had not utterly departed from her. He established the 
seat of his melancholy government at Mizpali, in the 
tribe of Benjamin ; and there the inhabitants, who had 
lied at the advance of the Chalda?an armies, or when 
the troops of Zedekiah were dispersed in the plains of 
Jericho, quitting their retreats, began to gather around 
him. Gedaliah wisely counselled them to submission 
and quietness ; and lie promised, on that condition, to 
insure them the undisturbed enjoyment of their pos- 
sessions, and of the produce of the ground. In this 
hope the labors of the field were resumed, and the ex- 
traordinary returns of that season secured as if special- 
ly given to repair the recent injuries of war. Jere- 
miah joined Gedaliah; and Mizpah became the resort 
of Jews from various quarters (Jer. xl, G, 11), many of 
whom, as might be expected at the end of a long war, 
were in a demoralized state, unrestrained by religion, 
patriotism, or prudence. The gentle and popular char- 
acter of Gedaliah (Joseph. Ant. x, 9, 1 and 3), his he- 
reditary piety (Bosenmiiller on Jer. xxvi, 24), the pros- 
perity of his brief rule (Jer. xl, 12), the reverence 
which revived and was fostered under him for the 
ruined Temple (xli, 5), fear of the Chaldtean conquer- 
ors, whose officer he was — all proved insufficient to se- 
cure Gedaliah from the foreign jealousy' of Baalis, king 
of Ammon, and the domestic ambition of Ishmael, a 
member of the royal family of Judah (Joseph. Ant. x, 

j 9, 3). This man* came to Mizpah with a secret pur* 

| pose to destroy Gedaliah. Gedaliah, generously re- 
fusing to believe a friendly warning which he received 
of the intended treachery, was murdered, with his 


GEBIROL 


761 


GEDER 


Jewish anti Chaldajan followers, two months after his 
appointment. After his death, which is still commem- 
orated in the Jewish Calendar (Prideaux, Connexion , 
anno 588, and Zecli. vii, 19) as a national calamity, the 
Jews, in their native land, anticipating the resentment 
of the king of P>abylon, gave way to despair. Mlmy, 
forcing Jeremiah to accompany them, lied to Egypt 
under Johanan. By this series of tragical events the 
utter ruin of Juda3a was consummated (2 Kings xxv, 
22-2G; Jer. xxxix, 14 ; xli, 18). — Kitto, s. v. ,• Smith, 
s. v. See Jeremiah. 

5. A descendant of Jeshua, and one of the priests 
who divorced their heathen wives after the return 
from the Babylonian captivity (Ezra x, 18). B.C. 458. 

Gebirol. See Ibn Gebirol. 

Geddes, Alexander, a Roman Catholic divine, 
was born in 1737, at Arradowl, Ban 11V hire, Scotland, i 
lie studied theology at the Scotch College in Paris, 
and, after his return to Scotland, he officiated at va- 
rious chapels till 1782, when he desisted entirely from 
clerical functions. For many years lie was engaged 
on a new translation of the Old and New Testament, 
and Lord Petre allowed him a pension of <£200 a year 
to enable him to carry it into effect. “The prospectus, j 
which contained an account of his plan, was published 
in 178<3 ; this was soon followed by a letter to the bish- 
op of London, containing ‘Queries, doubts, and diffi- | 
culties relative to a vernacular version of the lloly j 
Scriptures,’ by a specimen of the work, and by a ‘Gen- 
eral Answer to the queries, counsels, and criticisms’ 
which his prospectus and specimens had called forth. 
It was not, however, till 1792 that the first volume of 
the translation was published under the title of ‘ The 
Holy Bible , or the Books accounted Sacred by the Jews ! 
and Christians, otherwise called the Books of the Old and 
Hew Covenants, faithfully translated f rom corrected texts j 
of the originals, with various reading i, explanatory notes , 
and critical remarks .’ The second, which contained 
the translation to the end of the historical hooks, ap- 
peared in 1793 ; and the third, which contained his I 
critical remarks upon the Pentateuch, in 181)0. The 
remainder of the work was never finished ; he was 
employed, at the time of his death, on a translation of 
the Psalms, which he had finished as far as the 118th 
Psalm, and which was published in 1807.’’ In 1800 
he published Critical Remarks on the Hebrew Scriptures 
(Loud. 4to). He died Feb. 26, 1802. A Memoir of his 
Life and Writing*, by Dr. John Mason Goode, appear- 
ed in 1803 (London, 8vo). See Graves, On the Penta- 
teuch ; British Critic, vols. iv, xix, xx ; English Cyclop 
Cotton, Rheims and Douay, Oxford, 186 L 

Geddes, Janet, “known in Scottish ecclesiastical 
history as ‘Jenny Geddes,’ has had her name trans- 
mitted as the person who took a prominent part in re- 
sisting the introduction of the Liturgy, or Service-book, 
into the Church of Scotland in 1G37. The circum- 
stances were these. Sunday, 23d July, 1G37, was the 
day fixed for this innovation, so obnoxious to the Scot- 
tish Presbyterians, and an immense crowd filled the 
High Church of St. Giles’s, Edinburgh, on the occa- 
sion. On the dean of Edinburgh beginning to read, 
his voice was lost in a tumultuous shout, and an old 
woman, said to have been one Jenny Geddes, who kept 
a green-stall in the High Street, bawling out, ‘Villain ! I 
dost thou say mass at 1113'' lug’ (that is, ear), launched 
her stool at the dean's head. Universal confusion en- j 
sued, and the dean, throwing oft' his surplice, fled, to I 
save his life. The bishop of Edinburgh, on attempt- 
ing to appease the storm, was assailed by a volley of 
sticks, stones, and other missiles, accompanied by cries 
and threats that effectually silenced him. This tumult 
proved the death-blow of the liturgy in Scotland. It 
has been doubted, however, if there ever was such a 
person as Jenny Geddes. In 1756, a citizen of Edin- 
burgh, of the name of Robert'Mein (who died in 1776), 
known, for his exertions for the improvement of his 


native city, published a tract called The Cross Removed, 
Prelacy and Patronage Disproved , etc., in which lie 
claims the exploit of Jenny G. for his great-grand- 
mother, ‘ the worthy Barbara Hamilton, spouse to John 
Mein, merchant and postmaster in Edinburgh, who, 
in the year 1637, spoke openly in the church at Edin- 
burgh against archbishop Laud's new Service-book, at 
its lirst reading there, which stopped their proceed*, 
ings, and dismissed their meeting, so that it never ob- 
tained in our Church to this day.’ In the obituary no- 
tice of Robert Mein, Weekly Magazine, vol. xxxix, and 
Scots Magazine , vol. xxxvi (1776), this Barbara Ham- 
ilton is said to have been descended from the II ami 1- 
tons of Bardowie, ‘but was better known in our his- 
tory by the name of Jenny Gecldes, though called so 
erroneously.’ Jenny Geddes’s famous stool is said to 
have been burned by herself in the bonfires at the 
cross of Edinburgh at the Restoration, and what has 
been called hers in the Museum of the Society of Anti- 
quaries at Edinburgh has no claim to that name be- 
yond gratuitous conjecture. See Proceedings of Society 
of Antiquaries of Scotland, x ol. iii, pt. ii, p. 179, 180.” 
— Chambers, Cyclopaedia , s. v. 

Geddes, Michael, a divine of the Church of En- 
gland, was born in Scotland, and in 1078 was appoint- 
ed chaplain to the English factory at Lisbon. In 1686 
he was summoned to appear before the court of the In- 
quisition. The judges received him at first with great 
affectation of civility and courtesy, desiring him to sit 
down and to be covered before they proceeded to ex- 
amine him. After this ceremony was over, they stern- 
ly asked him how lie dared to preach or exercise his 
function in that city ? He answered that he enjoyed 
that liberty’' by virtue of an article in the treaty be- 
tween the crowns of Portugal and England; that it 
was a privilege which had never been called in ques- 
tion ; and that he had resided at Lisbon for eight veal's, 
during which time he had served the English factory 
in the capacity of chaplain, as man}' others had done 
before him. To these declarations they falsely replied 
that they were entirely ignorant till lately that any 
such liberty had been assumed, and that if the}’ had 
known it they would never have suffered it. They 
strictly forbade him to minister any more to his con- 
gregation ; and, after threatening him with vengeance 
if he should disobey, dismissed him. It is said that 
they were encouraged to take this step by the Roman- 
ist party in England. Upon this interdiction, letters 
of complaint were addressed by the factory to the bish- 
op of London; but as the}' did not reach England be- 
fore the suspension of his lordship, all hopes of speedy 
redress were lost. Geddes returned to his native coun- 
try in the beginning of 1688. He was soon made LL.D. 
by the University of Oxford, and was made chancel- 
lor of Sarum by bishop Burnet. He wrote a History of 
the Church of Malabar (Lond. 1694, 8vo) : — The Church 
History of Ethiopia (Lond. 1696, 8vo) ; — Miscellaneous 
Tracts against Popery (Lond. 1730, 3 vols. 8vo) ; and 
the Council of Trent no Free Assembly. He died in 
1715. — Birch, Life of Tillotson ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. v, 
308. 

Ged'dur (Ttcftovp), one of the “ Temple servants” 
or Nethinim, whose “sons” are stated to have return- 
ed from the exile (1 Esdr. v, 30); evidently the Ga- 
iiar (q. v.) of the Heb. texts (Ezra ii, 47 ; Neh. vii, 49). 

Ged'eon (r«tfewi', the Gnecized form of Gideon ), 
the name of two men. 

1. The judge Gideon (q. v.), thus Anglicized in 
the N. T. (Heb. xi, 32). 

2. The son of Repliaim and father of Ananias, 
among the ancestors of Judith (Judg. viii, 1; where, 
however, many copies have “ Gideon”). 

Ge'der (Heb. id. "H&, Sept. Vdcto), a name sig- 
nifying a wall (e. g. of a court, garden, sheepfold, etc., 
Prov. xxiv, 31 ; Ezek. xlii, 10), hence an inclosed or 
fortified place, and thus the basis of several names of 


GEDERAII 


762 


GEFFCKEN 


castellated towns (e. g. Gederah, Gedor, Gadara, Ge- i 
dcrotli, etc.); used onee only (Josh. xii, Id) in this 
simple form as that of one of the thirty-one ancient 
royal towns of the Canaanites, whose kings were de- 
feated by Joshua. It is mentioned between Dcbir 
and llonnah; but, as the localities in that list are not 
strictly in geographical order, it may be identified with j 
the Gedor (<j. v.) in the mountains of Judah (dosli. 
xv, 58), and with the Betii-gader (q. v.) of 1 Chron. 
ii, 51. The notices of Schwarz {Palest, p. 80, 104) are 
quite confused. 

GecTerah (lleb. with the article hag-Gederah ' , 
rr "ir.n, the fortress or shep-cote [see Geder] ; Sept. 
Yah/pa), a town in the She])hclah or plain of Judah 
(Josh, xv, 30, where it is mentioned between Adithaim 
and Gcderothaim [q. v.]). According to Eusebius and 
Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. VaCapa, Gaddera), it was still 
a village (Pifooo, Gadora) near Jerusalem “around 
the Terebinth,” an expression which Kannuir {Ft dad. 
p. 103) interprets of the valley of Elah or the terebinth 
(1 Sam. xvii, 1); although Keil (on Joshua , ad loe.) 
shows that it means the wood of Mature, near llebron, 
and Belaud had pointed out that this was in the moun- 
tains and not the lowlands of Judah {Paleest. p. 802). 
Van de Velde has identified the site with that of 
“ Ghelerah or Ghederah , a village on the south banks 
of wady Surur, near the high road from Kamleh to 
Ghuzzeh” {Memoir, p. 313); a position exactly agree- 
ing with that of the Cedns (K ^ tone, Jerome Gedrus), 
described by Eusebius {Onomast. s. v. Vtcovp, Jerome 
Girdnr) as a very large village ten miles from Dios- 
polis (Lvdda) towards Eleuthcropolis (Bcit-Jibrin). 
The inhabitants seem to be those designated as Geder- 
ites (q. v.) in 1 Chron. xxvii, 28. 

Ged'erathite (lleb. only with the art. hag-Gede- 
rathi , *r“ , "f<j,as if from Geder ah ; Sept. 6 TactjpioSi 
v. r. lW«pa3i//i,Vulg. Gaderothites), an epithet ofdo- 
sabad (q. v.), one of David’s famous warriors at Zik- 
lag (1 Chron. xii, 4); so called as being a native prob- 
ably of the Gedor (q. v.) of the same passage (ver. 7). 

Ged'erite (lleb. with the art. hag-Gederi , 
as if from Geder; Sept, d VzBioptrtjQ v. r. FfCodp, Vulg. 
Gederites ), an epithet of Baal-hanan, David's overseer 
of olive and sycamore groves in the lowland of Judali 
(1 Chron. xxvii, 28); hence probably so called as be- 
ing a native of Gederah (q. v.) in that region (Josh, 
xv, 3G). 

Ged'eroth (Heb. Gederoth' , IT"! "Hi., fortresses or 
sheep-cotes [see Geder]; in Chron. with the art. ; Sept. 
Vacijpwiy v. r. in Chron. FaXi/pw, etc. ; Vulg. Gideroih , 
Gederoth ), a town in the “valley” of Judah (Josh, xv, 
41, where it is mentioned between Kithlish and Beth- 
dngon) ; one of those captured by the Philistines from 
Aliaz (1 Chron. xxviii, 18). It cannot be identical 
with the Gederah or Gederothaim (q. v.) of Judah 
(which lay in a different group), nor yet with either 
Gedor or Gedor (which were in the mountains). The 
associated names require a position “in t lie actual 
plain from north to south between the hilly region and 
the Philistine coast” (Keil, on Josh, ad lot*.); perhaps 
at the modern Beit-Tima , marked on Van de Velde’s 
Map as G miles east of Ascalon. 

Gederotha'im (lleb. Gederotha gim, 
tiro folds [sec Geder]; Sept, omits, hut some copies 
translate ai arrijr, Vulgate Gtderothaim), 

the name of a town in the plain of Judah (Josh, xv, 
3G), mentioned in connection w ith Gederaii (q. v.) ; 
where, probably, instead of rendering the copulative 
1 “ami,” wc should (with the margin) translate it 
“or,” since otherwise there would be 15 instead of 14 
cities enumerated, as stated in the text. So Schw arz 
{Palest, p. 103), who, however-, confounds jt with Ge- 
dcrotli, and even with the Gazara (q. v.) of the Apoc- 
rypha (see Kelaml, Palast. p. 778). 


Gedi. See Goat; En-Gedi. 

Gediyah. See Goat. 

Ge'dor (ITeb. Gedor , or [in 1 Chron. iv, 4, 
18] Sis*, a wall [see Geder] ; Sept. IWojo, but 1 
Chron. viii, 31 Vtcovp, and 1 Cliron. xii, 7 riooeo ; 
Vulg. Gedor), the name of one or two places, and also 
of a man. 

1. An ancient city in the mountains of Judah (Josh, 
xv, 58), some of whose inhabitants joined David at 
Ziklag (1 Chron. xii, 7). It was probably this town 
to which “ Josabad the Gederathite" (q. v.) belonged (1 
Chron. xii, 4); as also “Jerobam of Gedor,” whose 
sons Joelah and Zebadiah were among the mighty men 
that joined David in his difficulties at Ziklag (1 Chron. 
xii, 7) ; for it does not appear that all in that list were 
“Saul’s brethren of Benjamin” (compare the terms 
“ Haruphite,” “Korhite,” following). See IIakeeii. 
The name has the definite article to it in this latter 
passage (“’i’nfn—j’S). The place w*as probably the 
same as the Geder (q. v.) of the ancient Canaanites 
(Josh, xii, 13), rebuilt as Betii-Gader (q. v.) by Ila- 
reph (1 Chron. ii, 51), in conjunction with Penuel (1 
Chron. iv, 4) and Jered (1 Chron. iv, 18). See Me red. 
It is doubtless the Gidora of the Onomasticon, between 
Jerusalem and Hebron. See Gederaii. It is very 
doubtful (sec below) whether this he the same Gedor in 

1 whose fertile valley the Simeonites found good pasture 
I for their flocks (1 Chron. iv, 30), yet Kelaml regards 
! them both as the same {Palcest. p. 803). Dr. Kobinson, 
travelling from Jerusalem to Gaza, came in sight of a 
place called Jed nr , with ruins, on the brow of a inoun- 
; tain ridge, which he identifies with Gedor {Researches, 
ii, 338; also new* cd. i ii, 2s3). It was also recognised 
i by M. De Saulcv {Narrative, ii, 451); comp. Schwarz 
( Palest . p. 86) and Wilson {Bands of Bible , i, 38G). 

2. The above-named place (1 Chron. iv, 30) was 
I originally inhabited by Hamites, and its fertility in- 
j dueed a predatory incursion and forcible occupation 

by a party of Simeonites. From this it would seem to 
have adjoined the territory of Simeon on the south ; 

! and a writer in the Journal of Sacred Literature (July, 
18G0, p. 318) suggests the solution that these aborigi- 
nes were Philistines, the place itself being no other 
than Gerak (by the slight and frequent error in tran- 
scription of “iTt for "nn, which latter the Sept, appears 
I to have actually read). Ewald had already adopted 
this emendation ( Gesch . Tsr. i, 332, note), although the 
term ("“2, wad//) elsewhere applied to Gerai (q. v.) is 
different from that here used (^7 |'»j, vallrg). 

3. A chief of the Benjamites (apparently of the 
house of Gibeon) resident at Jerusalem (1 Chron. viii, 

| 31 ; ix, 37). B.C. 53G or ante. 

Gee, Josh r a, a Congregational minister, was born 
] at Boston in the year 1G98. He graduated at Har- 
i vard in 1717, and was early regarded as a young man 
I of promise, lie accepted an invitation to settle as col- 
I league of Cotton Mather, and w as ordained December 
18, 1723, Cotton Mather giving the charge. In tins 
j relation he continued till the close of his life. Mr. 

I Gee distinguished himself by a vigorous and earnest 
defence of the great Whitfieldian revival, lie cor- 
dially welcomed Whitfield to Boston, adopted in his 
own church tin* measures which Whitfield recommend- 
ed, and opposed the action of a convention of Congre- 
gational ministers in 1743 which protested against his 
doings. Mr. Gee was an invalid during the letter 
part of his life, and was obliged to have an assistant, 
lie died May 22, 1748. lie published A Sermon on 
the Death of Cotton Mather (1728): — Tiro Sermons on 
Bttlr xiii, 24 (1729) : — Letter to the Rev. Nathaniel Bells, 
Moderator of the late Conrention of Pastors at Boston 
j (1743). — Sprague, Annals, i, 312. 

Geffcken, Johannes, a Lutheran clergyman of 
I Germany, w*as born in 1803 at Hamburg. lie became 


GEGNiESIUS 


763 


GEIIAZI 


in 1829 pastor of St. Michael's church, in his native | 
city, and retained this position until liis death, Oct. 2, 
1805. lie wrote a history of Semipelagian ism ( Gesch . 
des Semipelagianismns, Ilamb. 1820); on the division 
of the Decalogue ( Ueber die rersehicdcne Eintheilnng 
des Dehalogus , Hamb. 1838); on the picture catechism 
of the 15th century ( Ueber d. IHhlerhiteihism, des 15' f " j 
Jahrhnnderts , Leipz. 1855), and several other works. — 
All gem. Real- Ency Hop. s. v. (A. J. S.) 

Gegnaesius, Timotheus, a leader of the Pauli- 
cians about A. I). 700. About this time “the sect was 
divided into two parties. The schism grew out of the 
antagonism betwixt a Catholic and a Protestant prin- 
ciple. Gegmesius held that spiritual gifts were com- 
municated by tradition, and connected with the regu- 
larity of succession. But his younger brother, Theo- 
dore, refused to acknowledge any such principle, main- 
taining that any such outward mediation was unessen- 
tial, and that he had received the Spirit immediately 
from the same divine source with his father. Under 
the reign of Leo the Isaurian. new complaints were 
lodged against the Panlieians at Constantinople, and 
the emperor ordered Gegnresius to appear at the capi- 
tal and undergo a trial. The examination was com- 
mitted to the patriarch, before whom Gegmesius con- 
trived to answer all the questions proposed to him re- 
specting his orthodoxy in a satisfactory manner; at- 
taching, however, quite a different sense from the true 
one to the formularies of Church orthodoxy. The pa- 
triarch asked him why lie had left the Catholic Church? 
Gegmesius replied that he had never entertained the 
remotest wish of forsaking the Catholic Church, within 
which alone salvation was to be found. But by the 
Catholic Church he meant only the Paulician commu- 
nities, called, as they believed, to restore the Church 
of Christ to its primitive purity. The patriarch de- 
manded why he refused to give the mother of God the 
reverence which was her due? Gegmesius here pro- 
nounced the anathema himself on all who refused 
reverence to the mother of God — to her into whom 
Christ entered, and from whom he came — the mother 
of us all. But he meant the invisible, heavenly city 
of God, the celestial Jerusalem, mother of the divine 
life, for admission of the redeemed into which Christ 
had prepared the way by first entering it himself as 
their forerunner. He was asked why he did not pay 
homage to the cross ? Gegmesius here pronounced the 
anathema on all who refused to venerate the cross ; 
but by this he understood Christ himself, called by that 
symbolical name. Furthermore, he was asked why lie 
despised the body and blood of Christ ? The reply to 
this also was satisfactory ; but by the body and blood ( 
of Christ he was accustomed to understand the doc- 
trines of Christ, in which he communicated himself. 
So also lie answered the question respecting baptism ; 
but by baptism he understood Christ himself, the liv- 
ing water, the water of life. This trial having been 
reported to the emperor, Gegnajsius received from his 
sovereign a letter of protection securing him against 
all further complaints and persecutions.” — Nennder, 
Church History (Torrey’s transl.), iii, 249. See Pauli- 

CIAXS. 

Geha'zi (Kcb. Geyckazi', ‘nrna, as if for 
irtn, valley of vision ; but, according to Fiirst, denier, , 
from an obsol. TFI5 ; occasionally contracted GechazV , 
■Hm, 2 Kings iv, 31; v, 25; viii, 4, 5; Sept. Ftf^i), 
the servant of Elisha, whose entire confidence he at 
first enjoyed. He personally appears first in reminding 
his master of the best mode of rewarding the kindness 
of the Shnnammitess (2 Kings iv, 14). B.C. 889. lie | 
was present at the interview in which the Shunammi- 
tess made known to the prophet that her sou was dead, 
and was sent forward to lay Elisha’s staff on the child’s i 
face, which he did without effect (2 Kings iv, 31). 
B.C. cir. 887. The most remarkable incident in liis 
career is that which caused his ruin. When Elisha, 


with a noble disinterestedness, declined the rich gifts 
pressed upon him by the illustrious leper whom he 
had healed, Gehazi felt distressed that so favorable an 
opportunity of profiting by the gratitude of Naaman 
had been so wilfully thrown away. He therefore ran 
after the retiring chariots, and requested, in his mas- 
ter’s name, a portion of the gifts which had before 
been refused, on the ground that visitors had just ar- 
rived for whom he was unable to provide. He asked 
a talent of silver and two dresses; and the grateful 
Syrian made him take two talents instead of one. 
Having deposited this spoil in a place of safety, he 
again appeared before Elisha, whose honor he had so 
seriously compromised. His master asked him where 
he had been, and on his answering, “Thy servant 
went no whither,” the prophet put on the severities 
of a judge, and, having denounced his crime, passed 
upon him the terrible doom that the leprosy of which 
Naaman had been cured should cleave to him and his 
forever. “And he went forth from his presence a 
leper as white as snow r ” (2 Kings v, 20-27). B.C. 
cir. 885. The case is somewhat parallel with that of 
Ananias (q. v.) and Snppliira (Acts v). The rebuke 
inflicted on Gehazi, though severe, cannot justly be 
reckoned too hard for the occasion. He ought to have 
understood, from the determined rejection of Naaman’s 
offers by Elisha, that there were important principles 
involved in the matter, which he should have been 
careful on no account, or by any movement on his 
part, to bring into suspicion. There was a great com- 
plication of wickedness in his conduct. He lir.^t arro- 
gated to himself a superior discernment to that of the 
Lord’s prophet; then he falsely employed the name 
of that prophet for a purpose which the prophet him- 
self had expressly and most emphatically repudiated ; 
further, as an excuse for aiming at such a purpose, he 
Invented a plea of charity, which had no existence but 
in liis own imagination ; and, finally, on being interro- 
gated by Elisha after his return whither he had gone, 
he endeavored to disguise liis procedure by a lie, which 
was no sooner uttered than it was detected by the 
prophet. Such accumulated guilt obviously deserved 
some palpable token of the divine displeasure; t lie 
more so, as it tended to give a covetous aspect to the 
Lord’s servant at a time when the very foundations 
were out of course, and when the true worshippers of 
God were called to sit loose to all earthly possessions. 
This, indeed, is the thought that is most distinctly 
brought out in the prophet’s denunciation of Gehazi’s 
conduct (ver. 26) — the false impression it was fitted to 
give of Elisha’s position and character. See Naaman. 

We afterwards find Gehazi recounting to king Jo- 
ram the great deeds of Elisha, anil, in the providence 
of God, it so happened that when he was relating the 
restoration to life of the Shunammitess’s son, the very 
woman with her son appeared before the king to claim 
her house and lands, which had been, usurped while 
she had been absent abroad during the recent famine. 
Struck by the coincidence, the king immediately 
granted her application (2 Kings viii, 1-6). B.C. 876. 
Lepers were compelled to live apart outside the towns, 
and were not allowed to come too near to uninfected 
persons. See Leprosy. Hence some difficulty lias 
arisen with respect to Gehazi’s interview with the 
king. Several answers occur. The interview may 
have taken place outside the town, in a garden or gar- 
den-house ; and the king may have kept Gehazi at a 
distance, with the usual precautions which custom dic- 
tated. Some even suppose that the incident is mis- 
placed, and actually occurred before Gehazi was smit- 
ten with leprosy. Others hasten to the opposite con- 
clusion, and allege the probability that the leper had 
then repented of his crime, and had been restored to 
health by his master, a view which is somewhat cor- 
roborated by the fact that he is there still called “the 
servant of the man of God,” from which it is supposed 
that the relationship between him and Elisha contin- 


GEHENNA 1 

nod to subsist. — Kitto, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. See 
Elisha. 

Gehen'na (r«?'i'«, A. V. invariably “bell”), the 
Greek representative of Eii!"" 1 *, Josh, xv, 8; Neb. 
xi, 30 (rendered by the Sept. Fatima, Josh. xviii, 1G) ; 
more fully, or “y (2 Kings xxiii, 

10; 2 Chron. xxviii, 3; xxxiii, G; Jer. xix, 2), the 
“ valley of Hinnoni,” or “of the son” or “children 
of Hinnoni,” a deep narrow glen to the south of Jeru- 
salem, where, after the introduction of the worship of 
the tire-gods by Ahaz, the idolatrous Jews offered 
their children to Moloch (2 Chron. xxviii, 3; xxxiii, 
G; Jer. vii, 31 ; xix, 2-G). In consequence of these 
abominations the valley was polluted by Josiali (2 
Kings xxiii, 10); subsequently to which it became the 
common lay-stall of the city, where the dead bodies of 
criminals, and the carcasses of animals, and every other 
kind of tilth was cast, and, according to late and some- 
what questionable authorities, the combustible portion 
consumed with lire. From the depth and narrowness 
of the gorge, and, perhaps, its ever-burning tires, as 
well as from its being the receptacle of all sorts of pu- 
trefying matter, and all that deliled the holy city, it 
became in later times the image of the place of ever- 
lasting punishment, “where their worm dieth not, and 
the tire is not quenched;” in which the Talmudists 
placed the mouth of hell : “There arc two palm-trees 
in the valley of llinuom, between which a smoke aris- 
eth . . . and this is the door of Gehenna” (Talmud, 
quoted bv Barclay, City of Great King, p. 90; Light- 
foot, Centar. Chorogruph. Matt, proem, ii, 200). The 
Mohammedans still use the t(U*m as the current desig- 
nation of the infernal regions (see D'Hcrbelot, Biblio- 
thl-que Orient, s. v. Gehennem). In t his sense the word 
is used by our Lord, Matt, v, 29, 30; x, 28; xxiii, 15, 
33; Mark ix, 43, 45; Luke xii, 5; and with the addi- 
tion roe 7Ti'p«r, Matt, v, 22; xviii, 9; Mark ix, 47; 
and by James, iii, G. See Hinnom, Valley of; To- 
1*11 et ; Hell. 

Geibel, Johannes, a clergyman of the Reformed 
Church of Germany, was born April 1, 177G, at Hanau. 
After finishing his theological studies at the Univers- 
ity of Marburg, he was for a short time tutor in a fam- 
ily at Copenhagen. In 1797 he was appointed vicar 
of the aged pastor of the Reformed church at Lubeck, 
and, when the latter died in 179S, Geibel became bis 
successor. In his theological views Geibel bad been 
influenced at first by Daub, Jacobi, and Scldeicrmachcr, 
subsequently by the mysticism of Kernel* and the pe- 
culiar tenets of the Darbyites; but gradually he con- 
formed himself more fully to the Reformed Church, in 
which he found the best expression of apostolical sim- 
plicity and truth. His theology remained, however, 
always more Biblical than denominational. He gain- 
ed a great reputation as a pulpit orator, and was re- 
garded as one of the most successful champions of 
Biblical orthodoxy against Rationalism, which at that 
time prevailed in a large number of the Reformed 
churches of Germany. He severely criticised the Lu- 
theran theses of Harms (q. v.), which he designated as 
obscure, one-sided, and dictatorial, and inspired with 
an injurious spirit of sectarianism, lie published an 
“ Introduction into the Christian Doctrine” (Kin lei fang 
in die ch rut lie he Lehre, 1821), and two “Guides to the 
Instruction in the Christian Doctrine” (Leitfaden lei 
d< m Unterrichte in der christl. Glanbenslehre , 1822; and 
Kvrzer Ldtfadm , etc., 1825). lie also wrote several 
pamphlets in defence of his' son, pastor Karl Geibel, 
of Brunswick, who by his orthodox zeal bad offended 
the rationalistic majority of bis own congregation, and 
was censured by the Reformed Synod of Lower Sax- 
ony. Geibel declined several calls to other more lu- 
crative positions, and remained in Lubeck until April 
11. 1847, when he resigned. lie died on the 25th of 
July, 1853. He is the father of the celebrated Gcr- 


04 GEILER VON KAISERSBERG 

| man poet Geibel. — Ilcrzocr, Real-Encyblopadie, xix, 

I 543. (A. J. S.) 

Geier, Martin, D.D., a German theologian, was 
born at Leipsic in 1G14, became court-preacher at 
Dresden in 1G5G, professor of theology at Leipsic in 
1GG1, and died at Freiburg in 1G80. Among bis writ- 
ings are commentaries on the Psalms, Proverbs, and 
Ecclesiastes, which, with some valuable theological 
treatises, are collected in bis Opera omnia qwr Latino 
1 edita sunt (Amst. 1G95, 2 vols. fob). His commentary 
I on the Psalms lias been often published separately, 
and is still esteemed. 

Geiger, Franz Tibnrtins, a Roman Catholic 
theologian, was born at Karting, near Ratisbon, in 
1755. He studied at first under the Jesuits, then join- 
ed the Franciscans at Lucerne in 1772, and after 1773 
applied himself to the study of philosophy at Ratis- 
bon, and of theology at Wurzburg. He subsequently 
became professor of Hebrew at Ratisbon, of rhetoric 
at Offcnburg, of philosophy at Freiburg, and after- 
wards in the Franciscan school of Solothurn, and final- 
ly, in 1792, professor of theology at Lucerne, whence 
be became a leader of ultramontanism through Swit- 
zerland and Germany. This, however, made him 
many enemies, and in 1819 he was obliged to resign 
his position. He died May 8, 1843. A collection of his 
works has been published (Lucerne, 8 vols.). — Pierer, 
Universal-Lea ikon , s. v. (J. N. P.) 

Geiger, Jacob, a minister of the German Re- 
formed Church, was born in Allentown, Lehigh Coun- 
ty, Pa., Oet. 17, 1793. He began his studies with the 
Rev. Dr. J. C. Becker in Northampton County, Pa., in 
1814, and subsequently completed them with the Rev. 
Dr. C. L. Becker in Baltimore, Aid. He was licensed 
and ordained in 181G, and in 1817 took charge of con- 
gregations in and around Manchester, Md., and not 
far from Baltimore, in which he labored up to the time 
, of his death, Oct. 19, 1848. He was a very successful 
! minister, having baptized 3714 and confirmed 1G68 
I during a ministry of thirty-one years. II is charge at 
the time of his death numbered 1200 members. He 
preached only in the German language. (H. H.) 

Geiler von Kaisersberg, an eminent preacher, 
was born March 1G, 1445, at Schaffhausen, and was ed- 
ucated at the University of Freiburg, where he became 
bachelor in 14G2, master in 14G3, member of the facul- 
ty of philosophy in 14G5, and dean in 14G9. In 1470 
be went to Basel, where be studied theology for five 
years, and was received as doctor in 1475. The follow- 
ing year he accepted the professorship of theology in 
Freiburg, and became also rector; but the bent of bis 
genius led him to abandon a literary life, and devote 
himself to the pulpit. He was preacher of the cathe- 
dral of Slrasburg until 1488, when he removed to Augs- 
burg, but returned to Strasburg, where be remained 
until bis death, March 10, 1510. As an earnest, pow- 

5 erful, and popular preacher, be bad few rivals in that 
ago. “His sermons, usually composed in Latin and 
delivered in German, are marked by great eloquence 
, and earnestness; nor do they disdain the aids of wit, 
sarcasm, ami ridicule. Vivid pictures of life, warmth 
of feeling, and a bold, even rough morality, are their 
leading characteristics. In fact, Gciler’s ethical zeal 
often urged him to a pungency of satire hardly in keep- 
ing with modern views of the dignity of the pulpit, 
but quite congruous with the taste of bis own age. 
Ilis style is vigorous, free, and lively, and in many re- 
spects be may be regarded as a sort of predecessor of 
Abraham a Sancta-Clara” (Chambers, s. v.). The only 
work of his published during his lifetime was the Ora- 
tio habitci in synodo A rgentinensi (1482); he also edited 
the first collection of Gerson’s Works (Strasb. 1488, 3 
vols.). From liis MSS. a large number of sermons 
were compiled and published after his death. Of these, 
the best known are his Navicula sive speculum fatuo - 


GEISSENIIAINEF 


765 


GELASIUS 


rum (Strasb. 1510,1511, 1513), translated into German ' bishop of Caesarea perhaps about A.D. 370. Of his 


by Pauli, D.Kaisersbtrgers Narrenseliff (Strasb. 1520) ; 
there is also another translation (Basel, 1513). Of 
another of his works, Das Schijf des Ihils , damn der 
Seelen Paradies (first edit.), a free translation into mod- 
ern German has been published by II. Iione (Mentz, 
1804). Many collections of his sermons have been 
published. See Von Ammon, G.'s Leben , Lehren nnd 
Predigten (Erl. 1820); Weiek, Johann G. von Kaisers- 
berg, sein Leben u. seine Schriften , etc. (Frankf. 1820, 3 
vols.) : 111 gen’s Zeitschrifl , xxvii, 530; Huber, Ueber 
G.'s Leben uml Schriften (1834 ; also in the French lan- 
guage, Kssai kistoriqne et literaire sur la vie et les Ser- 
vians de G., Strasburg, 1834, containing a selection 
from G.’s works); Kehrein, Geschichte der hatholischen 
Kanzelberedtsamkeit d. Deutschen (Ratisb. 1843, 2 vols.) ; 
Tierer, Unicersal-Lexikon , s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Encyklo- 
pddie , iv, 714. 

Geissenhainer, Frederick MTlboxo, D.D., 
was born June 2G, 1771, at Miilheim, on the Ruhr. In 
early life he gave evidence of great intellectual pre- 
cocity, and a wonderful facility in the acquisition of 
knowledge. He studied in the universities of Giessen 


works there are extant only some fragments, explan- 
atory of the Apostles’ Creed and of the traditions of the 
Church. He died in 394. The accounts of him are 
obscure ; some writers make two persons of the same 
name. See Fabricius, Bill. Grcec. vol. ix. 

Gelasius I, a pope and saint of the Roman Church, 
succeeded Felix 111 March 1,492. He is one of the 
popes who contributed most to t he extension of the tem- 
poral power of the see of Rome. He was the first to 
claim for the Papacy a complete independence of the em- 
perors or from the synods in matters of faith. See his 
Letter to Faustus (Mansi, Sacrorum Conciliorum nova et 
ampliss. collection viii, 19), in which he argued that the 
pope has not only a right to decide all ecclesiastical 
questions, blit that an appeal from such decision to any 
other tribunal is inadmissible ; that the pope holds the 
first rank ( prima series') in the Church, and councils de- 
rive their authority from his countenance and co-oper- 
ation {pro suo scilicet principatu). “There are two 
powers,” he wrote to the emperor, “ who have sover- 
eign rule over the world: the spiritual and the tem- 


, . , . . . .... * poral authority; the sacred authority of the bishops is 

and Gottingen, and in the latter institution became for ^ rl „„ :„,i * 

a season professor extraordincirius. When he reached 


his twentieth year he applied for ministerial ordina- 
tion, which, although usually withheld from all under 
twenty-five years of age, was granted to him as an 
honorable exception to the general rule, on account of 
his superior qualifications for the office. For nearly 
two years he preached in his native land, and then 
came to America in 1793. For fifteen years lie la- 


so much the greater, as on the day of judgment they 
must render an account of the actions of kings. Yon 
know, magnanimous emperor, that your dignity sur- 
passes that of other princes of the earth ; nevertheless, 
you are obliged to submit to the power of the ministers 
in sacred things, for it is to them you address yourself 
to know what are the sources of your safety, and the 
rules which you ought to follow 7 in receiving the sac- 
raments, and in disposing of religious things. The 


b«ro,l in the Gosclienhoppen and associated churches bishop3 ,’ wranado the people that God lias given vou a 

in I Hiinsvlvninn nntl in 1SI)S mnnvpil In thp nr.r nr \mr . . ... . . . * 


in Pennsylvania, and in 1808 removed to the city of New 
York as successor to Dr. Kunze. His health failing, 
he suspended for a time his ministerial labors, and re- 
paired to Clearfield Co., Pa. Subsequently he resumed 
the pastoral work, and labored at the Trappc, Pottstown, 
Vincent, and other places. In 1822 he returned to New 7 
York. He died May 27, 1838, in the 67th year of his 
age, and the 47th of his ministry. Dr. Geissenhainer 
enjoyed the reputation of an eminent divine in the Lu- 
theran Church. lie possessed an intellect of the high- 
est order, which had been brought under the influence 
of the most thorough culture. The Latin and Greek 
were as familiar to him as his native tongue. From the 
University of Pennsylvania he received the doctorate 
of divinity in 182G. His MS. lectures on Church His- 
tory, on the Gospels, Epistles, and portions of the Old 
Testiment, in the hands of surviving relatives, we 
trust, will yet be given to the Church. (M. L. S.) 

Geistweit, George, a minister of the German 
Reformed Church, was born in the year 17G1 ; licensed 
and ordained in 1794; became pastor of churches in 
Northumberland Co., Pa. His large field of labor lay 
on both sides of the Susquehanna, and along both its 
branches. He became pastor in York, Pa., May, 1804. 
By failing health he w 7 as compelled to resign and quit 
the active duties of the ministry in 1820. lie died 
Nov. 11, 1831. lie was a very useful man, in his old 
age highly venerable, and always greatly beloved for 
bis childlike piety, well-tempered zeal, and amiable 
spirit. He preached only in the German language. 
(II. II.) 

Gelasius Cyzicenus was son of a presbyter of 
Cyzicum. He nourished about A.I). 47G. lie com- 
piled A History of the Council of Nice , put together 
without judgment, in three books, the last of which is 
lost. It was published under the title of Gelasii Jlis- 
tor. Xicen., enru Rob. Balfour, Gr. et. Lat. (Paris, 1599, 
8vo). It may be found also in Labbe, Concilia , vol. 
ii, and in Mignc, Patrologia Latina , vol. lxxxv. See 
Dupin, Fed. Writers , vol. iv; Fabricius, Bibl. Gratca , 
vol. ix ; Cave, Hist. Lit. Ann. 47G. 

Gelasius of Caesarea w 7 as nephew of Cyril, 
bishop of Jerusalem, by whose influence he was made 


sovereign power over temporal things, and the} 7 cause 
them to submit to your laws. In return, you should 
obey, with entire submission, those who are destined 
i to distribute to you the holy sacraments. If the faith- 
ful ought blindly to follow 7 the orders of bishops who 
acquit themselves worthily in their functions, so much 
' the more ought they to receive the decree of the pon- 
| tiff' of Rome, whom God has established as the first of 
his bishops, and whom the Church has always recog- 
nised as its supreme chief.” The schism of the East- 
ern Church, which had already taken place, continued 
during his administration, notwithstanding the efforts 
he made in the Synod of Rome, 495, to heal the breach, 
lie wrote on this controversy his De dnabus in Christo 
naturis adversus ICutychen et Nestorium. He is said to 
have written also the so-called Decretum Gelasii de li- 
bris recipients et non recipiendis , w hich is a list of the 
scriptural books, etc., considered authentic and nnau- 
thentic by another synod, which he held at Rome in 
49G, but this work w as probably compiled in the 0th 
century. Among the minor w'orks ascribed to Gelasius 
are a IJber sacramentorum , published by Jos. Maria 
Thomasius (Rome, 1680), and a number of letters. He 
died in Rome Nov. 19, 49G. See Schrockh, Kirchen- 
gesch. (xvii, 181 sq.); Regenbrecht, de canonihus Apos- 
tolorum et codice Eccl. hispame Diss. (Vratisl. 1828). — 
Herzog, Real-Encyldop. iv, 7G1; Bower, History of the 
Popes , ii, 21 G sq. 

Gelasius II, Pope (John of Gaeta), studied 
theology at Monte Casino, ascended gradually to the 
higher degrees of the Roman hierarchy, and was final- 
ly elected pope in 1118, as successor of Pascal II. The 
emperor Henry V, dissatisfied with this election, took 
upon himself to appoint another pope, under the name 
of Gregory VIII ; and one of his generals took Gelasi- 
us prisoner, but was obliged to release him. Gelasius 
then w 7 ent to Gaeta, w here he w 7 as ordained, and after- 
wards to Capua, where he called a council, and ex- 
communicated both Gregory VIII and Henry V. He 
finally retired to France, where lie died in the convent 
of Cluny, Jan. 29, 1119. See Muratori, Scriptores Re- 
rum Italicarum, iii, 3G7 ; Mansi, x\i,162. — I loefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Gen. xix, 819 ; Bow 7 er, Hist. <f Popes , vi, 1. 


GELLERT 


GELDENHAUR VG6 


Geldenhaur, Gerard ( Gerardus Noviomagus , 1 
Gemni of Ximeguen), an eminent German writer, was 
born in 14^2 at Nimegucn, and educated at Louvain 
and at Deventer, where lie had for his instructor Alex- 
ander llegius, the preceptor of Erasmus. In 1517 his 
skill in Latin versification obtained for him the laurel 
crown from the emperor Maximilian I. He after- 
wards became chaplain and secretary to Philip of llur- 
gundy, bishop of Utrecht. lie was sent to Wittem- 
berg 'in 152G to visit the schools and Church, and found 
that he “ could not oppose a doctrine so consonant with 
that of the prophets and apostles” as that of Luther. 
He renounced popery, and retired towards the Upper 
Rhine, where, at Worms, he married, and became a 
school-master. Afterwards he was called to Augsburg, 
and eventually became professor, first of history, and 
then of theology, at Marpurg. Erasmus, w ho at one 
time was his friend, attacked him violently on his seces- 
sion to Lutheranism. Geldenhaur died of the plague 
in 1542. He wrote Ilistoria Batavica: — Historian sine 
uEtatis , lib. vii : — Descrijitio Insulue Batavorum : — Ca- 
talogs Episcoporum Ultrajectinorum : — Epistolce Zelan- 
dice: — Da Yiris illustribus Inferioris Germaniie , and sev- 
eral controversial pieces. — Hook, Eccles. hiog. v, 285; 
Bayle, Dictionary (London, 178G), iii, 145. 

Gel'iloth (Heb. Gelilotli , ri?“Ca, circuits [see 
below]; Sept. PaXtXtu^, Vulg. tumuli ), the name of a 
place on the boundary of Judah and Benjamin, be- 
tween En-Shemesh and the ascent to Adummim (Josh, 
xviii, 17) ; apparently another form of the Gilgal (q. 
v.) of the parallel passage (Josh, xv, 7). 

The same word is distinctively used (see Stanley, 
Sinai anil Pal. Append. § 23) live times in the origi- 
nal : twice with reference to the pr< r'nces of the Philis- 
tine heptarchy (“borders of the 1 hilistines,” Josh, 
xiii, 2; “coasts of Palestine,” Joel iii [iv], 4); twice 
to the circle [sec Ciccar] of the Jordan (“borders,” 
Josh. ::xii, 10, 11) ; and onec (in the sing.) to the dis- 
trict sloping easterly towards the Dead Sea (“ coun- 
try,” Ezek. xlvii, 8). Its derivation (from to 
roll) connects it with that of GaH’ee (q. v.), with which 
the versions sometimes confound it. See Topograph- 
ical Terms. 

Gell, Robert, D.D.. an English divine, who was 
rector of St. Mary Aldermanbury, London, and chap- 
lain to the archbishop of Canterbury. 1 1 is “ Remains 
contain much ingenious and solid criticism.” They 
are commended by John Wesley, and also by Charles 
XVeslev, who took from them some hints for hymns, 
lie died in 1G55. We have from him Sermons (Lon- 
don, 1050, 4to): — Sermons (1G54, 4to) : — Essays to- 
wards the Amendment of the English Trans, of the Bible 
(1050, fol) : — Remains , or select Script, of the Xew Test. 
(1G7G, 2 vols. fol.).- — Darling, Cycloped. Bibliographica , 
i, 1230; Allibone, Dictionary of Authors, i, G58; Wes- 
ley, 11 WFs (N. Y. ed.), vii, G01. 

Gellatly, Alexander, a minister of the Asso- 
ciate Church, was born in Perth, Scotland, in 1720. 
In 1752 he became a student of theology in connection 
with the Antiburgher Synod of Scotland, By that 
synod lie was sent out in 1753 as a missionary to the 
inhabitants of the eastern connties of Pennsylvania, 
who were chietly emigrants from Scotland and Ire- 
land. lie was accompanied by the Rev. Andrew Ar- 
not, and together the}' formed themselves into a Pres- 
bytery, under the name of the Associate Presbytery 
ot' Pennsylvania. They soon became obnoxious to 
the Presbyterians who had occupied the ground before 
them, and who issued a series of publications against 
them, which were answered by Mr. Gellatly and oth- 
ers. Mr. Gellatly was settled first at Middle Oetoro- 
ra. Lancaster County, and then at Oxford, Chester 
County, Pa., where he labored with great diligence 
during the remainder of his life. He died March 12, 
1761. lie was a man of vigorous intellect, and an 


earnest, faithful minister of the Gospel. — Sprague, 
Annuls of Am. Pulpit , ix {Associate), 1. 

Gellert, Christian Fi rchtegott, a German 
poet and hymn writer, was born July 4, 1715, in IL.i- 
nichen, Saxony, and studied philosophy and theology 
at Leipzic. In 1744 he was made privat docent , and 
in 1751 professor extraordinary of philosophy in the 
University of Leipzig. He became professor ordina - 
rius in 17G1, and died Dec. 13, 17G9, after gaining the 
high esteem of Frederick the Great. His /afrfe# have 
never been surpassed in German literature, and his 
narrations and moral essays occupy a creditable place 
in German literature, while his comedies arc forgotten. 
He also composed some fifty-four hymns, which will 
give him a more enduring reputation than all his other 
writings. A translation of his hymn Jesus lebt , mit 
ihm ouch Ich , is given in Schaff’s Christ in Song , p. 275. 
“In order to understand Gellert’s position as spiritual 
song-writer, we must consider him with reference to 
his age. The spirit which was the basis of the old 
songs of Germany had altogether departed. Gellert’s 
songs were so fully the expression of his pious inner 
nature that they found a hearty response in the breasts 
of many kindred natures. ‘Never did he attempt a 
spiritual poem,’ his biographer, Cramer, informs r.s, 
‘without carefully preparing himself, and striving 
with all his soul to experience previously the truth of 
his utterances. He then chose his most ecstatic mo- 
ments for composition, and as soon as his ardor cooled 
he laid aside his pen until the golden moments came 
again. . . . Even among Roman Catholic circles Gel- 
lert’s songs found a welcome reception. A country 
priest in the mountains of Bohemia had been so im- 
pressed by them that he wrote to Gellert and urged 
him to join the Catholic Church, since this Chureh 
could much better reward his good woiks than the 
Protestants were able to do. Also in Milan, Vienna, 
and other great Catholic cities, Gellert found many 
warm admirers. There can be more purely Christian 
rongs than Gellert’s; songs that would be the evi- 
dences of recent improvement in our language and lit- 
erature, and might partake of more of the old fire of 
reformative times, or bear the romantic coloring of 
mysticism or recent o:thodoxy; but all these perfec- 
tions could not supply the place of the simple, glowing 
language of a Gellert, w hich was his expression of in- 
ner, self-experienced truth. Gellert will long remain 
the poet of our masses. By the agency of pious moth- 
ers he will long continue to plant the seeds of virtue 
in the hearts of tender youth ; and where the later 
tendencies have not obliterated the old German meth- 
od of domestic training, he will continue to save many 
a young man firm the ways of sin. He will still con- 
sole the sick and broken-hearted. And though hut 
few of his songs have been reserved for use in onr 
churches, even these few — for instance, the Easter 
song, Jisus lives , and I live with him — will continue to 
elevate our Christian congregations, and help them to 
gain the victory over the world. Gellert has not only 
infiueuccd one generation by his songs, but has deeply 
affected succeeding ones. That humble man wished 
no higher honor than the salutation of any one whom 
he met, “You have saved my soul — you!” But in 
the coming w'orld of bliss tlierc will thousands meet 
him who on earth would have gladly done what the 
Prussian sergeant did, walk five miles to press the 
hand of the man who had saved his soul’ ” (Ungcn- 
hacli, Recent Church History , translated by J. F. Hurst). 
Among his works are, Fabeln vnd Erzahlungen (Lpz. 
174G) : — Gcistliche Oden u.Liedcr (Lpz. 1757) : — Morali- 
sche Yorlesungen (Sclilegel and Hover, lpz. 3770): — 
Sammtliche Schriften (Lpz. 17G0 74, 10 vols. ; 1840-41, 
G vols. ; and 1858, G vols.). See J. C. Cramer, l.ebens- 
beschrcibung (Lpz.* 1774); II. During, Lelnnsbeschrei- 
bung (Greiz. 1833. 2 vols.); Eck, Gdlerfs Empfehlnng 
(Lpz. 1770); E. Naumann, Gellertbuch (Drcsd. 1854); 
Pierer, Univ. Lex. s. v. 


GELMON 


767 


GEM 


Gelmon. See Giloh. 

Gem (l"Hp n or ' 1 *!? usually “precious 

stone”). Tlie Hebrews, among whom, as among all 
Asiatic nations (see especially Ileeren, Idten , 1, i, 118 
S q.) } gems constituted an essential and highly-prized 
ornament of kings (2 Sam. xii, 30; Ezek. xxviii, 13), 
of the high-priest (Exod. xxviii, 17), and of distinguish- 
ed persons generally (Judith, x, 21 ; xv, 15), especially 
when set in rings (Cant, v, 15), derived them chiefly 
from Arabia (see Ezek. xxvii, 22; 1 Kings x, 2) and 
India, by the overland as well as maritime traffic of 
the Phoenicians (Ezek. 1. c.). In the time of Solomon 
they procured them themselves directly from Ophir (1 
Kings x, 10 sq.). Tlie art of cutting (engraving let- 
ters) and setting them was a highly respectable voca- 
tion (Exod. xxxv, 33). In the Bible (especially Exod. 
xxviii, 17 sq. ; xxxix, 10 sq. ; Ezek. xxviii, 13 ; Rev. 
xxi, 19 sq.) the following names and kinds of gems 
chiefly occur (comp. Josephus, Ant. iii, 7, 0 ; II 7//', v, 5, 
7 ; Epiphan. Opp. ii, 225 ; see Hiller, Syntagm. liermen. 
p. 83 sq. ; De L)icu, on Exod. xxviii ; Braun, De vest'd, 
sacerd. Hebr. II, viii, p. 497 sq. ; Ilartmann, Uebraer- 
inn, i,278 sq. ; iii, 27 sq. ; Bellermann, Urim und Thnm - 
mim, p. 32 sq. ; Eichhorn, De [/•minis scnlpiL Hebr. in 
the Commenlatt. Soc. dotting, rec. ii ; Rosemniiller, Al- 
terth . IV, i, 28 sq. ; Wetstein, V. T. ii, 844 sq.). See 
Engraving. 

1. O' deni, C1X (Exod. xxviii, 17 ; xxxix, 10), accord- 
ing to the Sept, and Vulg., the Sardius (compare Rev. 
xxi, 20), i. e. carnelian , a well-known, mostly flesh-col- 
ored, semi-transparent gem, akin to the chalcedony, 
valued for its hardness, which, however, did not ren- 
der it incapable of being cut. The most beautiful 
specimens come from Arabia (Niebuhr, Beschr. p. 142). 
Josephus (lFar, v, 5, 7) assigns the above meaning to 
the word ; but elsewhere (Ant. 1. c.) he calls it the sar- 
donyx. (For other significations, see Gesenins, Thes. 
Jleb. p. 20.) See Sardius. 

2. Pitdah ’, rnpp (Exod. 1. c. ; Ezek. xxviii, 13; 
Job xxviii, 19), according to most of the versions, tlie 
Topaz , tottu^wv (Josephus totto^oc), described by the 
Greeks as a gold-yellow stone (Strabo, xvi, 770; Diod. 
Siculus, iii, 39), although Pliny (xxvii, 32) assigns it a 
green color. Hence moderns have regarded the topaz 
of the ancients as our chrgsolite. The passage in Job 
describes the mineral in question as coming from Cush, 
and Pliny (vi,34) mentions a topaz-island in the Red 
Sea (conqi. Diod. Sic. 1. c.). The topaz now so called 
is a transparent, chiefly wine-colored or citron-yellow 
stone of the silicious species (Hoffmann, Mineral, i, 
557 sq. ; comp. Pareau, Comment, ad Job xxviii, p. 333 
sq.). See Topaz. 

3. Bare'keth , rp^2, (Exod. xxviii, 17 ; xxxix, 10; 
Ezek. xxviii, 13), according to the Sept., Vulg., and Jo- 
sephus, the Emerald (Rev. xxi, 1 9 ; Tobit xiii, 21, etc.), 
grass-green, very hard, transparent, with double refrac- 
tion (Pliny, xxxvii, 10 sq.). The Hebrews obtained 
this stone almost entirely from Egypt (Pliny, /. c. ; 
comp. Braun, Vestil. p. 517 sq. ; yet see Theophr. Lapid. 
xxiv). See Card uncle. 

4. Xo'phek , “S3 (Exod. xxxix, 11 ; Ezek. xxvii, 1G ; 
xxviii, 13), according to the Sept, and Josephus, the 
(h'SnaZy i. e. Carbuncle. By this name the ancients 
(Theophr. Lapid. xviii sq. ; Pliny, xxxvii, 25) mostly 
designate red (like glowing coals) brilliant stones (“a 
similitudine ignium appellati,” Pliny, l. c.), as rubies 
and garnets. But their most valued carbuncles ap- 
pear to have been the Oriental or Indian rubies. They 
were engraved (Theophr. Lapid . xxi ; comp. Eichhorn, 
id sup. p. 12), which is also the case with the ruby, 
although they had a great degree of hardness — not 
greater, however, than the sapphire, which was like- 
wise engraved. See Emerald. 

5. Sap/rir', “P25 (Exod. xxiv, 10; xxviii, 18; 
xxxix, lli Ezek. xxviii, 13), acnripeipoc. Our Sap- 


phire is sky .blue (comp. Ezek. i, 2G ; Exod. xxiv, 10), 
transparent, and harder than the ruby. What the an- 
cients so named must, according to the description 
(Pliny, xxxvii, 39; Theophr. Lapid. xxiii, xxxvii), be 
tlie lapis lazuli , azure-stone (Beckmann, Erfind. Ill, i, 
182 sq.). This is opaque, often shading into dark blue 
(violet), and sometimes has gold -colored quartzose 
spots (Hoffmann, Mineral, ii, 27G sq. ; comp, i, 548). 
But as this stone is not so costly as to he justly esti- 
mated, as in Job xxviii, 1G, nor possessed of sufficient 
hardness (“inutile sealpturay’ Pliny, l. c .) to corre- 
spond with its use in Exod. xxviii, it is probable that 
the Ilcb. term denotes the true sapphire, which occurs 
in notices of ancient gems. See Savpiiire. 

G. Yahalom\^0T\^ (Exod. xxxix, 11 ; Ezek. xxviii, 
13), by which most of the ancient versions and Jose- 
phus appear (if we can trace the order of the gems enu- 
merated, see Bellermann, ut sup. p. 47) to understand 
the Onyx (Luther, with some of the Rabbins, the Dia- 
inond ), a kind of chalcedony , in resembling the human 
nail with the flesh showing through. The simply so- 
called onyx (of the ancients) has milk-white or brown 
streaks, and is non-transparent, but takes on, when pol- 
ished, a mirror-like lustre (Pliny, xxxvi, 12; xxxvii, 
24). Eichhorn understands the Beryl. See Diamond. 

7. Le'shem , C'i‘3 (Exod. xxviii, 19; xxxix, 12), 
Sept., Josephus, Vulg. Xiyupiou (lignre) or \iyxvtnov, 
i. e. Jacinth (as in Rev. xxi, 20), a transparent, hard, 
usually hvacinthine stone, but sometimes shading into 
yellow or brown. In the fire it loses its color. Many 
ancient cut specimens are still extant. See Ligure. 

8. Shebo', "ill'J (Exod. xxviii, 19 ; xxxix, 12), Sept., 
Vulg., and Josephus Agate (nyaY/je), a mixed sort of 
stone, consisting of quartz, chalcedony, carnelian, flint, 
jasper, and so forth, so that two kinds are usually com- 
pounded; hence agates have all possible ground-colors, 
with numerous streaks, spots, and even figures. The 
Oriental are finer than the European. In high antiq- 
uity they were very valuable, but later their value 
sank considerably (see Pliny, xxxvii, 54 ; Hoffmann, 
Mineral, ii, 123 sq.). See Agate. 

9. Achlamah' , IT^bnX (Exod. xxviii, 19), Sept., 
Vulg., Amethyst (afuSixjrog ; comp. Rev. xxi, 20), a 
transparent, mostly violet-blue stone, usually found 
in a six-sided crystalline form, but sometimes pebble- 
shaped. The ancients prized it highly, especially tlie 
specimens from India. But Arabia and Syria also af- 
forded amethysts (Pliny, xxxvii, 40). As the Greek 
name points to a superstitious attribute of the stone 
(dispelling intoxication ; see Harduin, ad Plin. ii, 783), 
so the Heb. designation refers to another property (q. 
d. “ dream-stone ;” see Simonis, Lex. p. 331). See 
Amethyst. 

10. Tarshish', U"'d^ri (Exod. xxviii, 20; xxxix, 
13; Ezek. i, 1G; Dan. x, G, etc.), according to the 
Sept, (in the Pcntat.) and Josephus (comp. Rev. xxi, 
20), the Chrysolite (youctoXi&oc). The stone now so 
called is generally found crystallized, and is of a pale 
green color, wholly transparent, with double refrac- 
tion. According to Pliny (xxxvii, 42), the ancients 
appear to have had a yellow stone called the chryso- 
lite, which would seem to have been our topaz (lint 
compare Bellermann, lit sup. p. G2). Bredow ( Histor. 
Enter such . p. 295) would take the tarshish to be amber , 
as the name probably came from the place so eallcd 
[see Tausihsii], whence the Phoenicians imported it; 
a not altogether unlikely view, inasmuch as eleetrum 
was well known in earliest antiquity, was highly 
prized, and bore an excellent polish (Pliny, xxxvii, 
11). Nevertheless, the authority of the ancient ver- 
sions must here prevail ; and when our attention is 
once directed by the name to Spain, the statement of 
Pliny (xxxvii, 43) makes it clear that the chrysolite 
was also produced there. See Beryl. 

11. Sho'ham , EiTJ (Gen. ii, 12; Exod. xxviii. 


GEMALLI 


GENEALOGY 


768 


Ezek. xxviii, 13; Job xxviii, 1G, etc.), according to 
the Sept., Vulg., and most others, as well as Josephus 
( )IV/r, nt snp.), the Beryl (Rev. xxi, 2d), a pale green 
gem, passing at times into water-blue, at others into 
yellow, with a hexagonal crystallization, streaked 
longitudinally. The most esteemed specimens came 
from India (but comp. Dionys. Perieg. 1012), and were 
of a clear sea-green (Pliny, xxxvii, 20; see Hoffmann, 
Mineral, i, GO t s<p). The chrysoprase (\i'3 og o 7rpctoi- 
V oc ), which the Sept, has in the passage in Gen for 
shoham . may be the beryl . Many versions (with Brann, i 
Michaelis, Kiclihorn, Pareau, Ewald, and others) un- 
derstand the onyx (see Knot, De situ parodist, c. 11). 
Behind (following the Sept, in Exod. xxviii, 0, 20) 
holds it to be emerald , on the ground that Havilah (<p 
v.) was a part of Scythia, whence emeralds were ob- 
tained (Pliny, xxxvii. 1G and 17). See Onyx. 

12. Yashephch' , ns'jj or nr:; (Exod. xxviii, 20; 
xxxix, 13; Ezek. xxviii, 13), according to the Sept., 
Vulg., and Josephus, the Jasper (comp. Rev. xxi, 10), | 
a well-known opaque stone, sometimes of one, at oth- i 
ers of many colors, of a shelly, compact fracture, gran- 
ulous texture, often wrought by the ancients into gems 
and ornaments (Pliny, xxxvii, 37 ; comp. Fuller, Mis- 
cell, vi, 8). See Jasper. 

13. Kadkod (Ezek. xxvii, 16; Isa. liv, 12), 
and 

14. Ekdali, (rsa. ib.) ; both a red (fiery), 

brilliant, costly stone, like the ruby, garnet, etc. (see 
Hartmann, Jlebrder. iii, 91 sq.). The ancient versions 
give no definite clew to the identity (sec Gesenius, 
Thes. p. G60). See Agate ; Carbuncle. 

15. Chrysoprase, xpoaonpaGog (Rev. xxi, 20), a pale 
green stone, inclining to yellow or brown, and trans- 
parent (Pliny, xxxvii, 20). See Cury*soprasus. 

1G. Chalcedony, yoAopVm (Rev. xxi, 16), semi-trans- 
parent, sky-blue, with a dash of other colors (compare 
No. 8 above). See Chalcedony*. 

17. Sardonyx, aapduj'V^ (Rev. xxi, 20), a mixture 
of the agate and carnelian (comp. No. G above), very 
highly valued by the ancients (Pliny, xxxvii, 23). 
See Sardonyx. 

18. Shamir ' , T'C'T (Jer. xvii, 1 ; Ezek. iii, 9 ; Zecli. 
Y T ii, 12), according to the Sept, (in Jer.) and Vulg., 
the Diamond, the hardest of minerals (Pliny, xxxvii, 
15), hence compared with adamant (Pindcr, De ada - 
memte , Berl. 1829). Bochart (Jlieroz . iii, 843 sq.) com- 
pares the apipiQ or opvpic (pyvpiTi)Q Xizoc, Job xli, 7 
or 15, Sept.; comp. Veltheim in Yclthiisen’s Theolog. 
Mayaz. ii, 219 sq.), or emery (Diosc. v, 1G0), a quart- 
zose earth mixed with calcined iron, used for polish- 
ing (Hoffmann, Mineral. \, 5G1 sq.) ; but the origin of 
this Greek word is not Shemitic (see Passow, s. v.). — 
Winer, i, 281. See Diamond. 

See generally Pliny, Hist. Xat. xxxvii, 14 sq. ; The- 
ophrastus, nq>i Xizno v (in Opp. iv, cd. Schneider); Ran, 
Specim. e libris Aehmed de gem mis (Utr. 1784); Du- 
tens, Pierres preeie uses (Par. 177G. Bond. 1777); Mari- 
ette, Pierres gravies (Par. 1750) ; Blum, Taschenbuch d. 
Edelsteink. (2d cd. Stuttg. 1835); Hindmarsh, Precious 
Stones of Scripture (Lend. 1851); Anon, Gems, ancient 
and modern (Bond. 1852); King, Antique Gems (Bond. 
18G1) ; Thomson, Land and Book , i, 437 sq. See Min- 
eralogy*. 

Gemal'li (Hebrew Gemalli' , camel-driver; 

Sept. VapaXt), the father of Ammiel, which latter 
was the Danite messenger among those who ex- 
plored the land of Canaan (Numb, xiii, 12). B.C. 
ante 1G57. 

Gemara. See Talmud. 

Gemari'ah (Heb. Gemary ah' , [Jer. xxix, 

3], and in its prolonged form, Gemary a' hu, 
whom Jehovah has made perfect; Sept. Vapapiag), the 
name of two men. 


1. The son of Shaphan, one of the nobles of Judah, 
and a scribe of the Temple in the time of Jehoiakim. 
B.C. G05. Baruch read aloud the prophecies of Jere- 
miah to the people at the official chamber of Gemariah 
(or from a window in it), which was attached to the 
new gate of the Temple built by king Jotham (Jer. 
xxxvi, 10; comp. 2 Kings xv, 35). Gcmariah’s son 
Michaiah having reported this to his father, Baruch 
was invited to repeat the reading at the scribe’s cham- 
ber in the palace, before Gemariah and other scribes 
and councillors, who gave an account of the matter to 
the king (Jer. xxxvi, 11-20). Gemariah, with the 
other princes, heard the divine message with terror, 
but without a sign of repentance ; though Gemariah 
joined two others in entreating king Jehoiakim to for- 
bear destroying the roll which they had taken from 
Baruch (Jer. xxxvi, 21-25). Sec Jeremiah. 

2. The son of Hilkiah, who, with Elasah, son of 
Shaphan, was sent to Babylon, by king Zedekiah with 
his tribute-money for Nebuchadnezzar. He also took 
charge of a letter from Jeremiah to the Jewish cap- 
tives at Babylon, warning them against the false 
prophets who deluded them by promises of a speedy 
return to their own land (Jer. xxix, 3, 4). B.C. 594. 
See Jeremiah. 

Gems. See Gem. 

Gena. See Gina. 

Genealogy (VeveaXoyia), literally the act or art 
of the ytvtaXoybc, i. e. of him who treats of birth and 
family, and reckons descents and generations. Hence, 
by an easy transition, it is often (like \oropia) used of 
the document itself in which sucli series of generations 
is set down. In Hebrew the term for a genealogy or 
pedigree is Sir'll ‘ISO, or te SO, “the hook 

: of the generations;” and because the oldest histories 
were usually drawn up on a genealogical basis, the ex- 
, pression is often extended to the whole history, as in 
the case of the Gospel of Matthew, where “the l ock of 
j the generation of Jesus Christ” includes the whole his- 
i tory contained in that gospel. So Gen. ii, 4, “ These 
are the generations of the heavens and of the earth,” 
seems to be the title of the history which follows. Gen. 
v, i ; vi, 9 ; x, 1 ; xi, 10, 27 ; xxv, 32, 19 ; xxxvi, 3,9; 
xxxvii, 2, are other examples of the same usage, and 
these passages seem to mark the existence of separate 
histories from which the book of Genesis was compiled. 
Nor is this genealogical form of history peculiar to the 
Hebrews or the Shemitic races. The earliest Greek 
histories were also genealogies. Thus the histories of 
Acusilaus of Argos and of Ileeatams of Miletus were 
entitled r«’faAo}/«<, and the fragments remaining of 
Xnnthus, Charon of Eampsacus. and Ilelhmicus are 
strongly tinged with the same genealogical element 
(comp. Josephus, Apron, i, 3), which is not lost even in 
the pages of Herodotus. The frequent use of the pa- 
tronymic in Greek, the stories of particular races, as 
Heraelides, Alcmieonida?, etc., the lhts of priests, and 
kings, and conquerors at the games, preserved at Elis, 
Sparta, Olympia, and elsewhere; the hereditary mon- 
archies and priesthoods, as of the Branelmhe, Eumol- 
pidu?, etc., in so many cities in Greece and Greek Asia; 
the division, as old as Homer, into tribes, fra tria?, and 
yii’ij. and the existence of the tribe, the gens, and the 
familia among the Romans ; the Celtic clans, the Sax- 
on families using a common patronymic, and their 
royal genealogies running hack to the Teutonic gods, 
these are among the many instances that maybe cited 
to prove the strong family and genealogical instinct of 
the ancient world. Coining nearer to the Israelites, it 
will he enough to allude to the hereditary principle, 
and the vast genealogical records of the Egyptians, as 
regards their kings and priests, and to the passion for 
genealogies among the Arabs, mentioned by Bayard 
and others, in order to show that the attention paid by 
the Jews to genealogies is in entire accordance with 
the manners and tendencies of their contemporaries* 


GENEALOGY 


769 


GENEALOGY 


In their case, however, it was heightened by several 
peculiar circumstances. The promise of the land of 
Canaan to the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob suc- 
cessively, and the separation of the Israelites from the 
Gentile world ; the expectation of the Messiah as to 
spring from the tribe of Judah ; the exclusively hered- 
itary priesthood of Aaron with its dignity and emolu- 
ments ; the long succession of kings in the line of Da- 
vid ; and the whole division and occupation of the land 
upon genealogical principles by the tribes, families, and 
houses of fathers, gave a deeper importance to the sci- 
ence of genealogy among the Jews than perhaps in any 
other nation. We have already noted the evidence of 
the existence of family memoirs even before the flood, 
to which we are probably indebted for the genealogies 
in Gen. iv, v; and Gem x, xi, etc., indicate the con- 
tinuance of the same system in the times between the 
flood and Abraham. But with Jacob, the founder of 
the nation, the system of reckoning by genealogies 
(rrrrn, or in the language of Moses, Numb, i, 18, 
was much further developed. In Gen. xxxv, 
22-26, we have a formal account of the sons of Jacob, 
the patriarchs of the nation, repeated in Exod. i, 1-5. 
In Gen. xlvi we have an exact genealogical census of 
the house of Israel about the time of Jacob’s demise 
in Egypt. The way in which the former part of this 
census, relating to Reuben and Simeon, is quoted in 
Exod. vi, where the census of the tribe of Levi is all 
that was wanted, seems to show that it was transcribed 
from an existing document. When the Israelites were 
in the wilderness of Sinai, in the second month of the 
second year of the Exodus, their number was taken by 
divine command, “ after their families, by the house of 
their fathers,” tribe by tribe, and the number of each 
tribe is given “ by their generations, after their fami- 
lies, by the house of their fathers, according to the 
number of the names, by their polls” (Numb, i, iii). 
This census was repeated 38 years afterwards, and the 
names of the families added, as we find in Numb. xxvi. 
According to these genealogical divisions they pitched 
their tents, and marched, and offered their gifts and 
offerings, and chose the spies. According to the same 
they cast the lots by which the troubler of Israel, 
Achan, was discovered, as later those b} r which Saul 
was called to the throne. Above all, according to 
these divisions, the whole land of Canaan was parcel- 
led out amongst them. But now of necessity that took 
place which always has taken place with respect to 
such genealogical arrangements, viz. that by marriage, 
or servitude, or incorporation as friends and allies, per- 
sons not strictly belonging b 3 r birth to such or such a 
family or tribe, were yet reckoned in the census as be- 
longing to them, when they had acquired property 
within their borders, and were liable to the various 
services in peace or war which were performed under 
the heads of such tribes and families. Nobody sup- 
poses that all the Cornclii, or all the Campbells, sprang 
from one ancestor, and it is in the teeth of direct evi- 
dence from Scripture, as well as of probability, to sup- 
pose that the Jewish tribes contained absolutely none 
but such as were descended from the twelve patriarchs. 
(Jul. Africantis, in his Ep. to Aristides, expressly men- 
tions that the ancient genealogical records at Jerusa- 
lem included those who were descended from prose- 
lytes and ytiojpca, as well as those who sprang from the 
patriarchs. The registers in Ezra and Xehemiah in- 
clude the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon’s ser- 
vants.) The tribe of Levi was probably the only one 
which had no admixture of foreign blood. In many 
of the Scripture genealogies, as e. g. those of Caleb, 
Joab, Segub, and the sons of Repliaiah, etc., in 1 Chron. 
iii, 21, it is quite clear that birth was not the ground 
of their incorporation into their respective tribes. See 
Beciier ; Caleb. However, birth was, and contin- 
ued to he throughout their whole national course, the 
foundation of all the Jewish organization, and the 
III.— C c c 


| reigns of the more active and able kings and rulers 
were marked by attention to genealogical operations. 
When David established the Temple services on the 
footing which continued till the time of Christ, he di- 
vided the priests and Levites into courses and compa- 
1 nies, each under the family chief. The singers, the 
porters, the trumpeters, the players on instruments, 
were all thus genealogically distributed. In the active 
stirring reign of Relioboam, we have the work of lddo 
I concerning genealogies (2 Chron. xii, 15). When Hez- 
ekiah reopened the Temple, and restored the Temple 
services which had fallen into disuse, lie reckoned the 
whole nation by genealogies. This appears from the 
fact of many of the genealogies in Chronicles terminat- 
ing in Hezekiah’s reign, from the expression, “So all 
Israel were reckoned by genealogies” (1 Chron. ix, 1), 
immediately following genealogies which do so termi- 
nate, and from the narrative in 2 Chron. xxxi, 16-19, 
proving that, as regards the priests and Levites, such 
a complete census was taken by Ilezekiah. It is indi- 
cated also in 1 Chron. i v, 41. We learn, too, incidental- 
ly from Prov. xxv, thatHezekiah had a staff of scribes, 
who would be equall}’’ useful in transcribing genealogi- 
cal registers as in copying out Proverbs. So also in 
the reign of Jotham, king of Judah, who, among other 
great works, built the higher gate of the house of the 
Lord (2 Kings xv, 35), and was an energetic as well as 
a good king, we find a genealogical reckoning of the 
Reubenites (1 Chron. v, 17), probably in connection 
with Jotham’s wars against the Ammonites (2 Chron. 
xxvii, 5). When Zerubbabel brought back the cap- 
tivity from Babylon, one of his first cares seems to 
have been to take a census of those that returned, and 
to settle them according to their genealogies. The 
| evidence of this is found in 1 Chron. ix, and the dupli- 
' cate passage Neh. xi ; in 1 Chron. iii, 19 ; and yet more 
I distinctly in Neb. vii, 5, and xii. In like manner, Ne- 
hemiah, as an essential part of that national restora- 
tion which he labored so zealously to promote, gather- 
| ed “ together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, 
that they might be reckoned by genealogy” (Neb. vii, 
5 ; xii, 26). The abstract of this census is preserved 
in Ezra ii and Neh. vii, and a portion of it in 1 Chron. 
iii, 21-24. That this system was continued after their 
times, as far at least as the priests and Levites were 
concerned, we learn from Neh. xii, 22; and we have 
incidental evidence of the continued care of the Jews 
still later to preserve their genealogies in such pas- 
sages of the apocryphal books as 1 Macc. ii, 1-5; viii, 
17 ; xiv, 29, and perhaps Judith viii, 1 ; Toh. i, 1, etc. 
Passing on to the time of the birth of Christ, w r e have 
a striking incidental proof of the continuance of the 
Jewish genealogical economy in the fact that when 
Augustus ordered the census of the empire to he taken, 
the Jews in the province of Syria immediately went 
each one to liis own city, i. e. (as is clear from Joseph 
1 going to Bethlehem, the city of David), to the city to 
which his tribe, family, and father’s house belonged. 
Thus the return, if completed, doubtless exhibited the 
form of the old censuses taken by the kings of Israel 
and Judah. 

Another proof is the existence of our Lord’s geneal- 
ology in two forms, as given by Matthew and Luke. 
(See below'.) The mention of Zacharias as “of the 
course of Abia,” of Elizabeth as “of the daughters of 
Aaron,” and of Anna, the daughter of Phanucl, as “of 
the tribe of Ascr,”are further indications of the same 
thing (Luke i, 5; ii, 36). This conclusion is also ex- 
pressly confirmed by the testimony of Josephus in the 
opening of his Life, § 1. There, after deducing his 
own descent, “ not only from that race which is con- 
sidered the noblest among the Jews, that of the priests, 
but from the first of the twenty-four courses” (the 
course of Jelioiarib), and on the. mother's side from the 
Asinonajan sovereigns, he adds, “ I have thus traced my 
genealogy as I have found it recorded in the public ta- 
bles” (t v rai£ dq/joataiQ OiXtoii; dvaytypaf.if.drtjv') ; and 


GENEALOGY 


770 


GENEALOGY 


again, contr. Apion , i, 7, be states that the priests were 
obliged to verity the descent of their intended 'wives 
by reference to the archives kept at Jerusalem; add- 
ing that it was the duty of the priests, after ever}’' war 
(and he specifies the wars of Antioch us Epiph., Pompcy, 
and Q. Varus), to make new genealogical tables from 
the old ones, and to ascertain what women among the 
priestly families had been made prisoners, as all such 
were deemed improper to be wives of priests. As a 
proof of the care of the Jews in such matters, he fur- 
ther mentions that in his day the list of successive 
high-priests preserved in the public records extended 
through a period of 2000 years. From all this it is 
abundantly manifest that the Jewish genealogical rec- 
ords continued to be kept till near the destruction of 
Jerusalem. Hence we arc constrained to disbelieve 
the story told by African us concerning the destruction 
of all the Jewish genealogies by Herod the Great, in 
order to conceal the ignobleness of his own origin. 
His statement is, that up to that time the Hebrew gen- 
ealogies had been preserved entire, and the different 
families were traced up either to die patriarchs, or the 
ytubpen or mixed people; but that on Herod’s causing 
these genealogies to be burnt, only a few of the more 
illustrious Jews who had private pedigrees of their 
own, or who could supply the lost genealogies from 
memory, or from the books of chronicles, were able to 
retain any account of their own lineage — among whom, 
he says, were the Dcsposyni, or brethren of our Lord, 
from whom was said to be derived the scheme (given 
bvAfricanus) for reconciling the two genealogies of 
Christ. But there can be little doubt that the registers 
of the Jewish tribes and families perished at the de- 
struction of Jerusalem, and not before. Some partial 
records may, however, have survived that event, as it is 
probable, and indeed seems to be implied in Josephus’s 
statement, that at least the priestly families of the dis- 
persion had records of their own genealogy. We learn, 
too, from Benjamin of Tudela, that in his day the 
princes of the captivity professed to trace their de- 
scent to David, and he also names others, e. g. IL Ca- 
lonymos, “a descendant of the house of David, as 
proved by his pedigree” {I tin. ed. Asher, i, 32), and It. 
Eleazar bcn-Tsemach, “who possesses a pedigree of 
his descent from the prophet Samuel, and knows the 
melodies which were sung in the Temple during its ex- 
istence” ( ib . p. 100, etc.). He also mentions descend- 
ants of the tribes of Dan, Zabulon, and Napthali, 
among the mountains of Khasvin, whose prince was 
of the tribe of Levi. The patriarchs of Jerusalem, so 
called from the Hebrew wXI, claimed descent 

from Ilillcl, the Babylonian, of whom it is said that a 
genealogy, found at Jerusalem, declared his descent 
from David and Abital. Others, however, traced his 
descent from Benjamin, and from David only through 
a daughter of Shephatiah (Wolf, B. II. iv, 380). But, 
however tradition may have preserved for a while true 
genealogies, or imagination and pride have coined fic- 
titious ones after the destruction of Jerusalem, it may 
be safely affirmed that the Jewish genealogical system 
then came to an end. Essentially connected as it was 
with the tenure of the land on the one hand, and with 
the peculiar privileges of the houses of David and Levi 
on the other, it naturally failed when the land was 
taken away from the Jewish race, and when the prom- 
ise to David was fulfilled, and the priesthood of Aaron 
superseded by the exaltation of Christ to the right 
hand of God. The remains of the genealogical spirit 
among the later Jews (which might, of course, be much 
more fully illustrated from Rabbinical literature) has 
only heen glanced at to show how deeply it had pene- 
trated into the Jewish national mind. It remains to 
be said that just notions of the nature of the Jewish 
genealogical records are of .great importance with a 
view to the right interpretation of Scripture. Let it 
only be remembered that these records have respect to 


political and territorial divisions, as much as to strict- 
ly genealogical descent, and it will at once be seen how 
erroneous a conclusion it may be, that all who arc call- 
ed “sons” of such or such a patriarch, or chief father, 
must necessarily be his very children. Just as in the 
very first division into tribes Manasseh and Ephraim 
were numbered with their uncles, as if they had been 
sons instead of grandsons (Gen. xlviii, 5) of Jacob, 60 
afterwards the names of persons belonging to different 
generations would often stand side by side as heads of 
families or houses, and be called the sons of their com- 
mon ancestor. For example, Gen. xlvi, 21 contains 
grandsons as well as sons of Benjamin [see Belaii], and 
Exod. vi, 21 probably enumerates the son and grand- 
son of Assir as heads, with their father, of the families 
of the Korhites; and so in innumerable other instances. 
If any one family or house became extinct, some other 
would succeed to its place, called after its own chief 
father. Hence, of course, a census of any tribe drawn 
up at a later period would exhibit different divisions 
from one drawn up at an earlier. Compare, e. g. the 
list of courses of priests in Zerubbabel’s time (Nch. 
xii) with that of those in David’s time (1 Chron. xxiv). 
The same principle must be borne in mind in interpret- 
ing any particular genealogy. The sequence of gen- 
erations may represent the succession to such or such 
an inheritance or headship of tribe or family rather 
than the relationship of father and son. Again, where 
a pedigree was abbreviated, it would naturally specify 
such generations as would indicate from what chief 
houses the person descended. In eases where a name 
was common the father’s name would be added for dis- 
tinction only. These reasons would be well under- 
stood at the time, though it maybe difficult now to as- 
certain them positively. Thus, in the pedigree of Ezra, 
(Ezra vii, 1-5), it would seem that both Seraiah and 
Azariah were heads of houses (Neh. x, 2) ; they are 
both therefore named. Hilkiah is named as having 
been high -priest, and his identity is established by the 
addition “the son of Shall urn” (1 Chron. vi, 13); the 
next named is Zadok, the priest in David’s time, who 
was chief of the sixteen courses sprung from Eleazar, 
and then follows a complete pedigree from this Zadok 
to Aaron. But then, as regards the chronological 
use of the Scripture genealogies, it follows from the 
above view that great caution is necessary in using 
them as measures of time, though they are invaluable 
for this purpose whenever wc can be sure that they are 
complete. What seems necessary to make them trust- 
worthy measures of time is, either that they should 
have special internal marks of being complete, such as 
where the mother as well as the father is named, or 
some historical circumstance defines the several rela- 
tionships, or that there should be several genealogies, 
all giving the same number of generations within the 
same termini. When these conditions are found, it is 
difficult to overrate the value of genealogies for chro- 
nology. In determining, however, the relation of gen- 
erations to time, some allowance mr.A be made for the 
station in life of the persons in question. From the 
early marriages of the princes, the average of even 
thirty years to a generation will probably be found too 
long for the kings. 

Another feature in the Scripture genealogies which 
it is worth while to notice is the recurrence of the same 
name, or modification of the same name, such as To- 
bias, Tobit, Nathan, Mattatha, and even of names of 
the same signification, in the same family. This is an 
indication of the carefulness with which the Jews kept 
their pedigrees (as otherwise they could not have 
known the names of their remote ancestors) ; it also 
gives a clew by which to judge of obscure or doubtful 
genealogies. In some cases, however, this repetition 
seems to have resulted from erroneous transcription. 

The Jewish genealogies have two forms, one giving 
the generations in a descending, the other in an ascend- 
ing scale. Examples of the descending form may be 


GENEALOGY 


111 


GENEALOGY 


seen in Ruth iv, 18-22, or 1 Chron. iii. Of the ascend- 1 
in*', 1 Chron. vi, 33-43; Ezra vii, 1-5. The descend- 
ing form is expressed by the formula A begat B, and ! 
B begat C, etc. ; or, the sons of A, B his son, C his son, 
etc. ; or, the sons of A, n, c, r> ; and the sons of B, c, 
d, e ; and the sons of C, ic, f, g, etc. The ascending j 
is always expressed in the same way. Of the two, it 
is obvious that the descending scale is the one in which 
we are most likely to find collateral descents, inasmuch 
as it implies that the object is to enumerate the heirs [ 
of the person at the head of the stem; and if direct 
heirs failed at any point, collateral ones would have to 
be inserted. In all cases, too, where the original docu- 
ment was preserved, when the direct line failed, the i 
heir would naturally place his own name next to his 
predecessor, though that predecessor was not his father, 
but only his kinsman ; whereas in the ascending scale ^ 
there can be no failure in the nature of things. But 
neither form is in itself more or less fit than the other 
to express either proper or imputed liliation. 

Females are named in genealogies when there is j 
anything remarkable about them, or when any right 
or property is transmitted through them. See Gen. 
xi, 29 ; xxii, 23 ; xxv, 1-4 ; xxxv, 22 20 ; Exod. vi, 23; 
Numb, xxvi, 33 ; 1 Chron. ii, 4, 19, 35, 50, etc. 

The genealogical lists of names are peculiarly liable 
to corruptions of the text, and there are many such in 
the books of Chronicles, Ezra, etc. Jerome speaks of 
these corruptions having risen to a fearful height in 
the Septuagint (Pnefut.in Paraleip.). In like man- 
ner, the lists of high-priests in Josephus are so corrupt, 
that the names are scarcely recognisable. This must | 
be borne in mind in dealing with the genealogies. 

The Bible genealogies give an unbroken descent of 
the house of David from the creation to the time of 
Christ. The registers at Jerusalem must have sup- 
plied the same to the priestly and many other families. 
They also inform us of the origin of most of the na- 
tions of the earth, and carry the genealogy of the 
Edomitish sovereigns down to about the time of Saul. ' 
Viewed as a whole, it is a genealogical collection of 
surpassing interest and accuracy (Rawlinson, Ilerodot. 
vol. i, ch. ii ; Barrington, Geneal. Tables of the Old and \ 
Nnv Test. London, 183G ; Selden’s HorXrs, passim). — 
Smith, s. v. 

GENEALOGY of Jesus Christ, the only one 
given in the New Testament. 

I. Object of this Genealogical Record. — From the fore- 
going article it is evident that no nation was more 
careful to frame and preserve its genealogical tables 
than Israel. Their sacred writings contain genealo- 
gies which extend through a period of more than 3500 
years, from the creation of Adam to the captivity of 
Judah. Indeed, we find from the books of Ezra and 
Nehemiah that the same carefulness in this matter was 
observed after the captivity; for in Ezra ii, G2 it is ex- 
pressly stated that some who had come up from Babylon 
had sought their register among those that were reck- 
oned by genealogy, but were not found ; therefore were 
they, as polluted, removed from the priesthood. The 
division of the whole Hebrew nation into tribes, and the 
allotment to each tribe of a specified portion of the land 
of Canaan as an inalienable possession, rendered it in- 
dispensable that they should keep genealogical tables. 
God had, however, a still higher object than that of 
giving stability to property in Israel in leading suc- 
cessive generations of his people thus to keep an ac- 
curate list of their ancestry. That they should do this 
was especially required from the moment that the voice 
of prophecy declared that the promised Messiah should 
he of the seed of Abraham, of the posterity of Isaac, of 
the sons of Jacob, of the tribe of Judah, and of the fam- 
ily of David. 

The Rabbins affirm that after the Captivity the Jews 
Were most careful in keeping their pedigrees (Babyl. 
Gemar. Gloss, foh xiv, 2), Since, however, the period 
of their destruction as a nation by the Romans, all their 


tables of descent seem to be lost, and now they are ut- 
terly unable to trace the pedigree of any one Israelite 
who might lay claim to be their p.omised and still ex- 
pected Messiah. Hence Christians assert, with a force 
that no reasonable and candid Jew can resist, that Shi- 
loh must have come. 

The priesthood of Aaron having ceased, the posses- 
sion of the land of Canaan being transferred to the 
Gentiles, there being under the N.-T. dispensation no 
difference between circumcision and uncircumcision, 
Barbarian and Scythian, bond and free, there is but one 
whose genealogy it concerns us as Christians to be ac- 
quainted with, that of our Lord Jesus Christ. Him the 
prophets announced as the seed of Abraham, and the 
son of David, and the angels declared that to him 
should be given the throne of his father David, that 
he mi'-iht reign over the house of Jacob forever. His 
descent from David and Abraham being therefore an 
essential part of his Messiahship, it was right that 
his genealogy should be given as a portion of gospel 
truth. Considering, further, that to the Jews first he 
was manifested and preached, and that his descent 
from David and Abraham was a matter of special in- 
terest to them, it seems likely that the proof of his de- 
scent would be one especially adapted to convince 
them ; in other words, that it would be drawn from 
documents which they deemed authentic. Such were 
the genealogical records preserved at Jerusalem. See 
Genealogy. Now when to the above consideration 
we add the fact that the lineage of Joseph was actual- 
ly made out from authentic records for the purpose of 
the civil census ordered by Augustus, it becomes mor- 
ally certain that the genealogy of Jesus Christ was ex- 
tracted from the public registers. Another considera- 
tion adds yet further conviction. It has often excited 
surprise that the genealogies of Christ should both seem 
to be traced through Joseph, and not Mary. But if 
these genealogies were those contained in the public 
registers, it could not be otherwise. In them Jesus, the 
son of INIary, the espoused wife of Joseph, could only 
appear as Joseph’s son (comp. John i, 45). In transfer- 
ring them to the pages of the gospels, the evangelists 
only added the qualifying expression “as was sup- 
posed” (Luke iii, 23, and its equivalent, Matt, i, 1G). 

We find other traces of the existence of the public 
tables of descent in the New Testament : the taxation 
spoken of by Luke ii, 2, 3, would clearly indicate this, 
for how could each one be able to go to his own city 
unless he knew the specific tribe to which he belong- 
ed ? Hence it was, we think, that Paul was able with 
confidence to appeal to the Hebrews concerning the 
lineage of Christ, “for it is evident,” says he, “ that 
our Lord sprung out of Judah” (Heb. vii, 14; 2 Tim. 
ii, 8). To evince this beyond reasonable doubt, it 
pleased God to give us, by his inspired servants Mat- 
thew and Luke, these genealogies. 

II. Statement of the Subject . — The following is a 
tabular view of these records, with which it will be 
convenient to compare the parallel lists as found in 
the Hebrew copies of the Old Testament. 


No. 

Luke iii, 23-38. 
(Inverted.) 

Matt, i, 2-17. 

Gen. v, x, xi, and 
Ruth iv. 

1 Chron. i,ii, iii. 

1. 

Adam 


Adam 

Adam. 

2. 

Seth 


Seth 

Shetli. 

3. 

Enos 


Enos 

Enosh. 

4. 

Tainan 


Cainan 

Kenan. ’ 

5. 

Mnleleel 


Mahnlaleel 

Mahalaleel.' 

G. 

Jared 


Jared 

Jered. 

7. 

Enoch 


Enoch 

Henoch. 

8. 

Matlnisela 


Methuselah 

Methuselah. 

J). 

Lmnech 


Lamech 

Lamech. 

10. 

Noe 


Noah 

Noah. 

11. 

Sem 


Sliem 

Sliem. 

12. 

Arphaxad 

Cainan 


Arphaxad 

Arphaxad. 

Id, 

14. 

Sal a 


Salali 

Shelah. 

15. 

Eber 


Eber 

Eber. 

10. 

Phalee 


Pel eg 

Pel eg. 

17. 

Ragan 


Reu 

Keu. 

IS. 

Sa vouch 


Serng 

Serug. 

19. 

Xaehov 


Xahor 

Nahor. 


GENEALOGY 


GENEALOGY 


40. 

41. 

42. 

4:;. 

44. 

45. 
40. 
47. 

43. 
40. 
50. 

I 51. 

52. 

53. 

J 54. 

55. 

50. 


Luke iii, 
(Inverted.) 

Tliara 
Abraam 
Isaac 
Jacob 
Joiulas 
■ Phares 
Ksrom 
Aram 
Aminadab 
Hanson. 
Salmon 
booz 
( )bed 
' Jcssai 
David 
Nathan 
Mattatha 
Mainan 
Melea 
Eliakeim 
Jonan 
Joseph 
Jouda 
Simeon 
Levi 
Matthat 
Joreim 
Eliezer 
Jose 
Hr 

Llmodam 
Cos am 
Addi 
Melehi 
Xeri 

Salathiel 

Zorobabel 


Lhesa 

Joanna 

Joudas 

J oseph 

Semei 

Mattathias 

Maath 

Nnggai 

Esli 

Xkaoum 


Amos 
Mattathias 
Joseph 
Janna 
Melehi 

73. j Levi 

74. f Matthat 


Eli 
Joseph 
Jesus 


Uen v x,xi,and j C b r0I1 . i, ii, iii. 
Ruth iv. ’ ’ 

Terah. 
\bra(ha)m. 
saac. 

Israel. 

Judah. 
Pliarez. 
llezron. 

Lain. 

Amminadab. 
X'ahshon. 
Salma. 
lioaz. 

Obed. 

Jesse. 

David. 
Solomon. 
Kehoboam. 



Abia 

Asa 

Josaphat 
J ora m 


Ozias 

Jotham 

Achaz 

Ezekias 

Manasse3 

Anion 

Josias 


Jechonias 

Salatbiel 

Zorobabel 


Abioud 

Eliakeim 


Sadoc 

Aeheim 

Elioud 

Eleazar 

Matthan 

Jacob 


Joseph 
Jr.su s 


Abia. 

Asa. 

Jehoshaphat. 
J oram. 
Ahaziah. 

J oash. 

Amaziah. 

.Aza’iah. 

Jotham. 

Ahaz. 

llezekiah. 

Manasseh. 

Anion. 

Josiah. 

Jehoiakim. 

Jteuniah. 

Salatbiel and 

Pedniah. 

Zerubbabel. 

1 lananiah. 
Pelatiah and 
Lephaiah. 

A man. 
Obadiali. 
Shechaniah. 
Shemaiah. 


X'eariali. 
Elioenai and 
Azrikam. 
Johanan and 
Anani. 


III. Solution of Difficulties . — We do not find that 
there was any objection made to these genealogies, 
either liv Jew or Gentile, during the 1st century. Ilad 
any difficulty on this head existed, we may reasonably 
suppose that the Jews, of all others, would have been 
but too ready to detect and expose it. We. may, there- 
fore, fairly conclude that, whatever difficulty meets us 
now in harmonizing our Lord’s pedigree as given by 
the two evangelists, it could have had no place in the 
first age of the Christian Church. In subsequent 
ages, however, objections were and still are made to 
the genealogies of Matthew and Luke. 

A preliminary difficulty, which applies, however, 
equally to the O.-T. lists, lies in the small number of 
names between Judah and David, being only nine for 
an interval of 833 years, making the incredible aver- 
age of nearly a century for each generation. Hence 
arises the presumption that some names have been 
omitted (see Browne, Or do Su durum, p. 283), and at 
least three — more probably nine — mmt lie supplied, in 
order to reduce this average to the ordinary age of pa- 
ternity; three, Judah, Boaz, and Jesse, are known to 
have been advanced in life at the birth of their youn- 
gest sons, and Salmon was Considerably so. The syn- 
chronism of Nahshon with the TCxode, and Boaz with 
the earlier judges, requires the insertion of these omit- 


ted generations in the latter part of the list. Sec ILv- 

II All ; IiUTIl. 

On the other hand, the names Menan and Melea, 
also Mattathias and Maath, seem to be superfluous rep- 
etitions of others in the same list. 

1. Difficulties that apply to the Evangelists individ- 
ually. — (1.) It is objected that Jechoniah was not the 
son of Josiah, but his grandson. Answer: Matthew 
I does not mean to say be was his son ; for verses II 
and 12 are obviously intended to designate two differ- 
ent persons, viz. Jehoiakim, and his son Jehoiuchin. 
That the funner is the person meant in ver. II is evi- 
dent from the addition of “his brethren.” Whose 
j brethren ? Not Jehoiaehin’s (or Jechonias), for he 
had none, but Jehoiakim’s, viz. Jehoahaz and Zedeki- 
ah, the former of whom reigned before him (though a 
younger brother), and the latter after him (I Chron. 
iii, 15-17). Admitting this, we see the consistency of 
the evangelist as to the number of generations in the 
j second and third series; whereas they vho make 
Jechonias (vcr. 11, 12) to be the same person leave 
! only thirteen in the second series, if Jechonias be add- 
ed to the third ; or in the third, if he be placed to the 
second. If the objection had any truth, the evange- 
list would be palpably inconsistent with himself! St. 
Jerome (in Mattliuum , cap. i) confirms this view : “ If 
Jechonias be included in the first tessarodeeade there 
will not be fourteen generations : we may therefore 
assume that the first Jechonias meant Joakim and the 
latter Joachin — the one spelt with the letters k and m , 
the other with ch and n; which letters, in the course 
of time, by fault, of transcribers, were confounded by 
Greeks and Latins.” Porphyry brought forward this 
objection against Matthew’s genealogy, and we find 
the same father, in his Comment, on Daniel, thus re- 
plying: “In the Gospel of Matthew one generation 
seems to be wanting, for the second tessarodeeade 
ends with Joakim, the son of Josiah, and the third be- 
gins with Joachin, the son of Joakim. Porphyry, ig- 
norant of this, would exhibit his own skill in proving 
the falsity of the evangelist Matthew.” We may add 
that some respectable MSS. still exhibit the name of 
Jehoiakim as well as that of Jechonias. (See Strong's 
Greek Harmony of the Gospels , ad loe.) The triple se- 
ries of fourteen generations will therefore stand thus 
See Jehoiakim. 


1. Abraham. 

1. Solomon. 

1. Jecoriah. 

2. Isaac. 

2. Lehoboam. 

2. Salathiel. 

3. Jacob. 

3. Abijah. 

3. Zmi babel. 

4. Judah. 

4. Am. 

4. A bind. 

5. Phares. 

5. Jehcsliaj hat. 

5. Eliakim. 

(». Esrom. 

0. Jell' ram. 

0. Azov. 

7. Aram. 

7. Uzziali. 

7. Sad ok. 

S. Aminadab. 

R. Jotham. 

S. Achim. 

1*. Xaason. 

i>. Ahaz. 

0. Eli ud. 

10. Salmon. 

10. llezekiah. 

10. Eleazar. 

11. l*oaz. 

11. Manas.-eli. 

11. Matthau 

12. Obed. 

12. Arann. 

12. Jacob. 

13. Jesse. 

13. Josiah. 

1?. Joseph. 

14. David. 

14. Jthoiakim. 

14. Jesus. 


(2.) It is objected that Matthew omits three kings, 
viz. Ahaziah, Jonsh, and Amaziah (comp. 1 Chron. iii, 
and 2 Kings viii), from his second scries. In reference 
to this objection, it might suffice to say that Matthew, 
finding fourteen generations from Abraham to David 
inclusively, contracted, most likely in order to a.-sist 
memory and give uniformity, the second, and possibly 
the last series. If we compare Ezra vii, 1-5 with 1 
Chron. vi, 3-15, it will be seen that Ezra, in detailing, 
with apparent particularity, his own lineal descent 
from Aaron, calls Azariah, who was high-priest at the 
dedication of the first Temple, the son, not of Johanan 
his father, but of Meraioth, his ancestor at the distance 
, of six generations. Doubtless the desire of abridg- 
ment led him to omit those names with which there 
were connected no very remarkable associations. 
Some of the early fathers, however, give a different 
1 solution of this difficulty. Hilaiv (in Ma'th'ium, cap. 
i) says: “Three generations are designedly passed 


GENEALOGY 


773 


GENEALOGY 


over by Matthew, for Jaras is said to have begotten 
Ozias, "when, in fact, lie was the fourth from him, i. e. 
Jaras begat Ochazias from the Gentile family of Abab, 
whose wife was Jezebel.” That the omission of the 
three kings was a punishment inflicted upon the house 
of guilty Joram to the fourth generation is the view 
yet mere pointedly put forth by St. Jerome also, and 
bv many of our own best commentators. See Sox. 

" (3.) Moreover, it is said that Matthew terms Zoro- 
babel the son of Salathiel, whereas in 1 Cliron. iii, 19, 
he is called the son of Pedaiah. How is this? We 
answer that the Sept, version of 1 Chron. iii agrees 
with Matthew, and that this is the manner in which 
Zorobabel is designated in Ezra, Nehemiah, and Hag- 
gai. Josephus also calls him the son of Salathiel. 
AVer e he not the immediate son of Salathiel, but of Fe- 
ll thili , yet is it suitable to the language of the Jewish 
nation to count the grandson the son of the grandfa- 
ther. Thus Laban is called the son of Nahor (Gen. 
xxix, o), as being the son of Bethucl, who was, in fact, 
the son of Nahor (xxiv, 47). If, according to another 
manner of rendering ver. 17 and IS, Salathiel and Pe- 
duiuh were brothers, Zorobabel might have been, by 
the Levirate law, the natural son of the one and the 
legal son of the other. See Pedaiaii. 

(4.) It is again asked, if it be, as Matthew states, 
that Salmon, son of Naason, prince of Israel, had 
married so remarkable a person as Rahab, how then 
comes it that such a circumstance is not noticed in the 
book of Joshua? This objection will have no force if 
we remember that this book, full as it is in describing 
the partition of Canaan among the several tribes, is 
yet very silent concerning the exploits, and even 
names, of the subordinate leaders of Israel. There is 
nothing, therefore, surprising in the circumstance that 
it should pass over in total silence Salmon’s marriage 
with Rahab. Had the matter in question been the 
espousal of Rahab by Joshua himself, the presumption 
against its truth would be very different. Indeed 
Klmclii, in his Commentary on the Booh of Joshua, ad- 
duces a tradition to this effect, taken from the Baby- 
lonian Talmud. Every consideration, moreover, of a 
chronological character is in favor of the circumstance 
of the son of Naason, born to him in the wilderness, 
being married to Rahab. See Raiiar. 

(5.) But a far graver objection than that which is 
alleged against Matthew for having omitted names is 
brought against Luke for having inserted that of Cai- 
nan as son of Arphaxad — a name neither to be found 
in the Hebrew nor Samaritan text, nor yet in any of 
the Targums or versions, save the Sept. AVe may in- 
fer from the fact that neither Philo nor Josephus, who 
in other respects followed this version, receive this 
name as genuine, that it was not found in the earlier 
copies of the Sept. : it was, no doubt, borrowed from 
the corrupted Sept, which has come down to us, con- 
taining the name in question, but which cannot, with 
any propriety, be raised to a level of authority with 
the Ileb. text. It is clear, moreover, that Irenams, 
Africanus, Eusebius, and Jerome reject it as an inter- 
polation. (See, on this subject, AATiitby’s Preface to the 
Reader , and Lightfoot’s Harm . ; also Usher’s Disserta- 
tion on Cainan , and Kidder’s Demonstr . of Messiah .) 
See Cainan. 

2. AA'e are now to compare the evangelists as to the 
points on which they agree and dif r. It does not ap- 
pear that Celsns attacked the genealogies on the score 
of any inconsistency with each other. Not so the em- 
p 2 i*or Julian; he made their discrepancies the speeitic 
ground of attack. Jerome (in Matt, i) thus writes: 
“Julianas Augustus in this place attacks the evangel- 
ists on the ground of discrepancy: Matthew calls Jo- 
seph the son of Jacoh, whereas Luke calls him the son 
of Heli! Had Julian been better acquainted with the 
modes of speech of the Jews, he would have seen that 
one evangelist gives the natural and the other the le- 
gal pedigree of Joseph.” 


i (1.) The first solution of the apparent discrepancies 
of the evangelists (one to which this ancient father ob- 
' viously here alludes) is that of Africanus, which, he in- 
forms us (Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. i, 7), he received from 
j the relatives of our Lord, who, because of their consan- 
I guinity to him, were called ^imroavvoi. It is to the 
! effect that Mattlian, the third in the list from Joseph 
in Matthew's genealogy, and Melchi, the third in 
Luke’s list, married successively the same woman, by 
I whom the former begat Jacob, and the latter Heli. 
Heli dying without issue, his maternal brother took 
his widow to wife, by whom he had Joseph, who, ac- 
cording to law (Dent, xxv, G), was registered by Luke 
as the soil of Heli, though naturally the son of Jacob, 

| as Matthew records him. This is the explanation 
which was generally admitted by Eusebius, Nazian- 
zen, the writer of A<1 orthodoxos , and others, for ayes. 

(2.) Grotius, however, availing himself of the tradi- 
tion that Heli and Jacob were both sons of the same 
l mother, but of different fathers (Mattlian and Alel- 
| chD, supposes that Luke traces the natural pedigree of 
j Christ, and Matthew the legal. This he argues on two 
grounds : first, that Salathiel could not have been the 
natural son of Jechonias , who was childless — according 
1 to the declaration of God by Jeremiah (xxii) — and was, 
therefore, as Luke states, the son, properly so called, 
of Neri, of Nathan’s line ; and, secondly, that the Levi- 
rate law imposed no necessity on Jacob to marry Heli’s 
widow, they being only uterine brothers. The learned 
commentator might have been led to this view by St. 
Ambrose, who, in his Commentary on Luke , says, “ Heli, 
fratre sine liberis decedente, copnlatus est fratris uxo- 
ri, et generavit filium Joseph, qui juxta legem Jacobi 
filius dicitnr.” But both the reasons assigned by Gro- 
tius for differing from the solution of Africanus would 
I seem to be founded on a petilio principii. It does not 
appear an ascertained fact that Salathiel was not the 
natural son of Jechonias, nor yet that the law which 
obliged a man to marry the widow of his deceased 
brother might be departed from when they were only 
! maternal brethren ; for even in cases of distant rela- 
tionship the law seemed obligatory, as we see in the 
1 case of Boaz marrying Ruth, the widow of his distant 
kinsman. AVhitby defends African us’s account ; Ham- 
mond, Le Clerc, and A\’etstein agree with Grotius. 

(3.) Dr. Barrett, who, in his preliminary dissertation 
to a curious facsimile of a most ancient MS. of Mat- 
thew’s Gospel (an abridgment of which treatise may 
be found in Clarke’s Commentary , at the end of Luke 
iii), brings to bear upon this difficult question a large 
! share of sound learning and correct criticism, objects 
to the above theory as given by Africanus and altered 
I by Grotius, on the ground principally that it refers 
j entirely to the descent of Joseph from David, without 
j attempting to prove that the son of Alary was the son 
! of David. Dr. Barrett then states his own hypothesis, 
viz., that Matthew relates the genealogy of Joseph, 
and Luke that of Alary. He supposes a sufficient rea- 
! son, that after Alatthew had given his genealogical ta- 
I ble another should be added by Luke, fully to prove 
I that Christ, according to the flesh, derived his descent 
from David, not only by his supposed father Joseph, 
but also by his real mother Alary. The writers who 
agree in this opinion Dr. B. divides into two classes : 
first, those who assert that the families of Solomon and 
Nathan met in Salathiel and Zorobabel, after which 
they separated, and were again reunited in Joseph and 
Alary; secondly, those who suppose that Salathiel and 
Zorobabel were distinct individuals, and deny that any 
union took place between them previously to the mar- 
riage of Joseph and Alary. He rejects this latter opin- 
ion because it seems to contradict the divine promise 
(2 Sam. vii, 12-10), which intimates that Christ should 
be lineady descended from David through Solomon. 
He therefore receives the former hypothesis, and sup- 
ports it by numerous and profound arguments. (See 
his Preliminary Dissertation to Codex Rescriptus ; see 


GENEALOGY 7 

also, on both hypotheses, Lightfoot’s Harmony Ev. ; 
South’s Sermon on Lev. xii, 1G, vol. iii ; Wetstein, ad 
Matthieum, i, 17 ; Bishop Kidder’s Demonst. of Messiah, 
part, ii to ch. xiii ; Ilale’s Analysis of Chronology, vol. 
iii.) 

In constructing their genealogical tables, it is well 
known that the Jews reckoned wholly by males, re- 
jecting, where the blood of the grandfather passed to 
the grandson through a daughter, the name of the 
daughter herself, and counting that daughter’s hus- 
band for the son of the maternal grandfather (Numb, 
xxvi, 33; xxvii, 4-7). On this principle Joseph, be- 
gotten by Jacob, marries 31 ary, the daughter of Heli, 
and in the genealogical register of his wife’s family is 
counted for lleli’s sou. Salathiel, begotten by Jeco- 
Jiiah, marries the daughter of Neri, and, in like man- 
ner, is accounted his son: in Zorobabel, the offspring 
of Salathiel and Neri’s daughter, the lines of Solomon 
and Nathan coalesce; Joseph and Mary are of the 
same tribe and family; they are both descendants of 
David in the line of Solomon ; they have in them both 
the blood of Nathan, David’s son. Joseph deduces his 
descent from Abiud (Matt, i, 13), Mary from Khesa 
(Luke iii, 27), sons of Zorobabel. The genealogies of 
Matthew' and Luke are parts of one perfect whole, and 
each of them is essential to the explanation of the oth- 
er. By Matthew's table we prove the descent of Mary, 
as well as Joseph, from Solomon; by Luke’s we see 
the descent of Joseph, as well as Mary, from Nathan. 
But still it is asked how know we that M ary was the 
da.ig.'itcr of Neri ? 

[1.] Because the angel Gabriel, at the Annuncia- 
tion, told the Virgin that God would give her divine 
son the throne of his father David (Luke i, 32), and 
thus it w'as necessary to prove this by her genealogy 
afterwards. 

[2.] Mary is called by the Jews PD, “the 
daughter of Ileli,” and by the early Christian writers 
“the daughter of Joakim and Anna” (Lightfoot, on 
Luke iii, 23). But Joakim and Eliakim (as different 
names in Hebrew for God) are sometimes interchanged 
(2 Chron. xxxvi, 4) : Eli or Heli, then, is the abridg- 
ment of Eliakim. 

[3.] The evangelist Luke has critically distinguish- 
ed the real from the legal genealogy by a parenthetical 
remark: \t]<rouQ wp (tot; ivo/u^ero) v'ioq Twc 7/0, roc , 
'H\<\ “Jesus being (as was reputed) the son of Joseph 
(but in reality), the son of Ileli,” or his grandson by 
the mother's side, for so the ellipsis should be supplied. 
Moreover, on comparing the two tables, we find that 
from Abraham to David they agree with each other 
because they are in accordance with the genealogies 
of Genesis, Ruth, and 1 Chron. iii; but from David to 
Joseph they are evidently distinct lines of pedigree, 
agreeing onlv in two persons, viz. Salathiel and Zoro- 
babel. 

Again, it is objected that there are now in Luke’s i 
genealogy scventy-jfmt names ; whereas Irenaeus, 
Africanus, and other early fathers, acknowledge but 
sevent y-tn'o. But if we omit the names Maath, Mat- 

1-i thins, Me lea, Mainan, and Cainan, as being interpo- 
lations, then the number will he reduced to seventy- 
two. 

It is said that Abind and Illiesa are called by the 
evangelists the sons of Zorobabel, though in 1 Chron. 
iii, H) we have no mention of them among his sons. 

M e remark that it was a custom with the Jews to call 
the same person by different names, and that this cus- 
tom was peculiarly prevalent about the time of the 
captivity (Dan. i, G, 7 ; also comp. 2 Sam. iii, 3 with 1 
Chron. iii, 1). 

Lastly, it is inquired whence the evangelists had 
their genealogies from Zorobabel to Christ, there being 
nothing of them to he found in Scripture. We an- 
swer, from those authentic public tables kept by the 
Jews, of which, as before noticed, Josephus speaks; 
and regarding which also Eusebius (. llist . Eccles. i, 1) \ 


74 GENEALOGY 

1 says, “ Omnes Ilebrasorum generationes descriptae in 
archivis Templi seerctioribus babebantur.” It was 
doubtless from this source that they had the above- 
named parts of our Lord’s legal and natural pedigree ; 
for, otherwise, they would have exposed themselves to 
the cavils of the Jews; nor could the apostles have 
appealed, as they did, with confidence, to Christ’s ped- 
igree, as answering all the requirements of prophecy. 
— Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 


Jlaternnl Line. 


Adam 

Seth 

Enoa 

Cntnan 

Mahalaleel 

Jared 

Enoch 

Methuselah 

Lamecb 

Noah 

Shem 

Arphaxad 

Cninan. 

Salah 

Eber 

Pelcg 

Ren 

Serug 

Nnhor 

Ternb 

AnnAHAM 

Isanc 

Jacob 

J udah 

Pharez 

Hezron 

Ram 

Amininadab 

Nahshon 

Salmon 

[Unknown 


ILC.* I Paternal Lin e. 


5fh 

ch i 


^Unknown' 
[Unknown' 
[Unknown' 

{ Unknown' 

Boaz 

Obed 

Unknown"), 
Unknown] 
Unknown], 

, Unknown] 

Jesse 

David .... 

Nathan.. . . 
Maltathah, 

Mainan. 

Meleah. 

Eliakim ... 

Jonan 

Joseph 

Adaiah (Jndab). . . . 
Maaseiah (Simeon). 

Levi.. 

Matthat 

Jorim 

Eiiezer 

Josek 


Elmodam 

Cosem 

Adi 

Mnaseinh (Melcbi). 

Nerinh 

[A daughter] 

Salathiel, stepfather 

of 

Zerubbabel 

[ Hnnaniah] 

Rephninh (Rcsnb) 

Arnun (Jonnnah) 

Obadiah (Judnh) 

Scbechaniah (Joseph). 

Shemaiab (Semei).. 
Mattathiah. 

Maath. 

Neariah (Naggai).. 

Elioenai (Ezli) 

Johnnaii (Nahum) . 

Amor. 

Mattathiah 

Joseph 

Jannah 

Melchi 

Levi 

Matthat 


(4172) 

4041 

3936 

3*46 

3776 

3711 

3549 

34h4 

3297 

3115 

2613 

2513 

2478 
244s 
2414 
2384 
2352 
2322 
2293 
2163 
2063 
2003 
1916 
? I860 
« 1820 
? 17s0 
? 1740 
1700 
1 1660 
? 1610 
? 1570 
i 1530 
! 1500 
? 1460 
? 1430 
? 1360 
! 1325 
1285 
1245 
? 1210 
3 1170 
1083 
? 1032 
1008 


Marv. 


! 984 
? 959 
? 935 
? 901 
? 886 
! 862 
? 838 
» 813 
? 789 
1 765 
! 741 
? 717 
? 692 
! 668 
! 644 
? 620 
» 597 
! 680 

! 560 
! 530 
! 500 
f 470 
? 440 
? 410 

? 380 


! 350 
? 320 
3 285 
? 255 
! 225 
? 195 
T 165 
! 135 
« 105 
? 75 
! 42 
» 22 


Abraham 

Isaac 

Jacob 

Judah.. 

Pharez 

Hezron 

Ram 

Amminadab. . . 

Nahshon 

Salmon 

Unknown] . . . , 
Unknown] . . . , 
Unknown] . . . , 

Unknown] 

L'nknown] 


Obed 

[Unknown] ..... 

[Unknown] 

[Unknown] 

[Unknown] 

Jesse 

David 

Solomon .... 
Rebohoam.. . 


Abijah 

Asa 

Jehoshaphnl 

Jehoram 

[Abaziab] 

[Jeboash] 

f Amaziah] 

Uzziah 

Jolham 

Ahaz 

Hezeklah 

Manasseh 

Arnon 

Josiah 

Jeboiakiir. 

.Teconiah 

(Captivity.) 
Salathiel, nnch 
of .. 


Zerubbabel 

[Hananiali] 

[Repbniali] 

[Arnan] 

Obadiah (Abiud). 
Sliechaniah (Elia- 

kim) 

[Shemaiab] 


» 992 
1 970 
94 
923 
906 
884 
865 
824 
606 


! 580 

! 560 
! 530 
? 500 
! 470 
? 440 

3 410 
! 380 


Neariah] ....... 

Azrikam (Azor). . ? 31 it 

[Unknown] j !~ 

[Unknown] . . 

Sadok 

Jnchiin 

Eliud 

Eleaznr 

Mntihan . ... 

Jacob 

Joseph, reputed 
father of ... . 

Jesus 


(4.) Rejecting .all the above identifications and Le- 
virate marriages, Lord Ilervev ( Genealogies of our 
Lord, Cambr. 1853) contends that both evangelists 
give the genealogy of Joseph, Matthew's being the 
legal or royal line, and Luke’s the private. He sup- 
poses that Mary was the daughter of Jacob, and thus 
the first cousin of Joseph. The discrepancies in the 
latter names of the two lists he attempts to reconcile 
by supposing “ Rbesa” to be merely a title (Chald. for 
•prince ) of Zorobabel, so that “Joanna” of Luke. will 


GENEALOGY 775 GENERATION 


be the “Jlunaniah” of 1 Chron., but omitted by Matt.; I 
then identifying Matthew’s “ Abind” with Luke’s “Ju- 
da,” and both with the “Ilodaiah” of 1 Chron. ; also 
Matthew’s “Matthau” with Luke’s “Matthat;” and 
finally cutting off all the remaining names in 1 Chron., 
and supposing a number of generations to have been 
omitted in the following names of Matthew; so that 
the lists will, in this part, stand thus : 

(Matt, and Luke.) 

Salathiel 

Zorobabel (the Prince, or Rbesa) 

Joanna (Hananiah, in 1 Chron. iii, 19, 
omitted by Matthew, i, 13) 

Juda, or Ab-iud (Hodaiah, 1 Chron. iii, 24) 
! 


Ellaklm 

Joseph 

Azor 

Semei 

1 


Sadoc Mattathias 


A chim Maath 


Eliud 


Nagge 

Eleazar 


e!h 



1 

Naum 



Amos 



1 

Mattathias 



Joseph 

l 



1 

Janna 



Melchi 


(Matt, and Luke.) 

lJvi 

1 

H!s heir 

1 

was Matthan or Matthat 
1 


Jacob 

I 

(Matt, and Luke.) 

1 

Heli 

1 


Mary. Jacob’s heir was Joseph 

Jesus, called Christ. 

The violent character of these suppositions is suffi- 
ciently obvious. (See each name in its place.) 

(5.) Others, like Alford ( Comment . ad loc.), content 
themselves with saying that solution is impossible 
without further knowledge than we possess, But this 
is a view in which, with the actual documents before 
us, few will be disposed to acquiesce. 

See, in addition to the works alrcad} r referred to, 
Mill, Vindication of the Genealogies (Cambridge, 1842); 
Beeston, Geneal. of Matt, and Luke (3d ed. Lond. 1842) ; 
Jour. Sac. Lit. J uly, 1856 ; Meth. Quar. Rev. Oct. 1852, 
p. 533 sq. ; Sclileyer, in the Theolog. Qnartelschr. 1836. 
Older treatises may be seen in Darling’s Cyclop. Bib- 
liograph . ii, col. 771 sq., 1854; Volbcding, Index , p. 7 ; 
Hase, Leben Jesu , p. 51. See Lineage. 


Sacred Chronology (8vo ): — Notes upon the Scripture 
A Commentary upon the Psalms (8v<>), in which he par- 
ticularly applies himself to reconcile the Hebrew text 
with the vulgar Latin, and defends the Septnagint ver- 
sion ; the best edition is that of Paris (1588, fol.) — .1 
Translation of the Canticles into Iambic Verse : — Notes 
upon the Hebrew Grammar. lie published an edition 
of Origeris Works , with a Latin version (1578); and a 
translation into French of Josephus (2 vols. 8vo). — Du- 
pin, Peel. Writers , cent, xvi ; Iloefer. Nouv. Biug. Gene- 
rale, xix, 865 ; Ilook, Eccl. Blog, v, 287. 

General (of religious order), “ in the Roman Cath- 
olic Church, the supreme head, under the pope, of the 
aggregated communities throughout Christendom be- 
longing to a religious order. The governing authori- 
ties of the monastic orders in the Roman Catholic 
Church may be arranged in three classes : (1.) The 
superiors of individual convents or communities, called 
in different orders by the various names of abbot, pri- 
or, rector, guardian, etc. ; (2.) The provincials, who 
have authority over all the convents of an entire prov- 
ince — the provinces, in the monastic sense of the word, 
being usually coincident as to local limits with the 
several kingdoms in which the order is established ; 
(3.) The general, to whom not only each member of 
the order, but all the various officials of every rank, 
are absolutely subject. The general is usually elect- 
ed by the general chapter of the order, which, in the 
majority of orders, consists properly of the provin- 
cials, with whom, however, are commonly associated 
the heads of the more important monasteries, as also 
the superiors of certain subdivisions of provinces. 
The office of general in most orders is held for three 
years. In that of the Jesuits it is for life ; but in all, 
the election of the general chapter must be confirmed 
by the pope. In most orders, too, there is assigned to 
the general a consultor (admonilor) or associate (sod- 
as'), who, however, is entitled to advise, but ha.' no au- 
thority to control the superior. The general, also, is 
supposed to consult with and to receive reports from 
the various local superiors. He sends, if necessary, a 
visitor to inquire into particular abuses, or to report 
upon such controversies as may arise, and he bolds a 
general chapter of the order at stated times, which dif- 
fer according to the usage of the several orders. The 
general is exempt from episcopal jurisdiction, being 
subject to the immediate jurisdiction of the pope him- 
self. He resides in Rome, where he enjo} r s certain 
privileges, the most important of which is the right to 
sit and vote with the bishops in a general council of 
the Church.” — Chambers, Encyclopedia, s. v. 

General Assembly. See Assembly, General. 

General Councils. See Councils. 


Genebrard, Gilbert, a celebrated Benedictine, 
was born at Rioni, in Auvergne, in 1537. Having en- 
tered into the Benedictine order at the abbey of Mans- 
sac, he studied at Baris, where he learned Greek under 
Turnebius. Tn 1563 he was made professor of Hebrew 
at the Royal College of Navarre. In 1592 he was 
made archbishop of Aix by Gregory XIV. He had, 
in the same year, published a “Treatise of Elections” 
(Be Sacra rum Electionum Jure et necessitate, ad Eccle - 
sue Gallicanm Redhitegrationem ), in which he maintain- 
ed that the elections of bishops belong of right to the 
clergy and people, and argued acutely against the nom- 
inations of kings and princes. The Parliament of Aix 
in 1536 decreed that his book should be burnt by the 
bands of the common executioner, and, after depriving 
the author of his see, condemned him to banishment 
from the kingdom, prohibiting his return to it on pain 
of death. He was afterwards permitted to return to 
his priory at Semur, where he died March 24, 1537. 
Genebrard was one of the most learned men of his 
time. He wrote in Latin, besides the work above men- 
tioned, and others of which a list is given in Dupin, A 


General-Vicar. See Vicar-General. 

Generation (rnVin, ykrtotg, the act ; yhnnjpa, 
the result: “lYH, yn ad, a period). Considerable ob- 
scurity attends the use of this word in the English 
version, which arises from the translators having 
merged the various meanings of the same original 
word, and even of several di fie rent words, in one com- 
mon term, “generation.” The remark, too, is just, that 
in the literal translations of the Scriptures, the word 
“generation” generally occurs wherever the Latin 
has generatio , and the Greek ytveci or yevetriQ (Rees’s 
Encyclopedia, article Generation). The following in- 
stances seem to require the original words to be un- 
derstood in some one of their derivative senses: Gen. 
ii, 4, “These are the generations” (r'lT? ,, n; Sept, i) 
/3t'/i\oc yndtnioQ; Vulg. genera Hones), rather “origin,” 
“ history,” etc. The same Greek words, Matt, i, 1, 
are rendered “ genealogy,” etc., by recent translators : 
Campbell lias “lineage.” Gen. v, 1, “The book of the 
generations” (nVin “£C; Sept, as before; Vulg. li- 
i her gemrationis) is properly a family register , a history 


GENERATION 


of Adam. The same words, Gen. xxxvii, 2, mean a 
history of Jacob and his descendants; so also Gen. vi, 
9; x, 1, and elsewhere. Gen. vii, 1, “ In this genera- 
tion” (PITH ; Sept, tv tij ytvtd rdvry, Vnlg. in 

generatione hac) is evidently “in this age.” Gen. xv, 
G, “ In the fourth generation” (“i-.l ; Sept, ytvtd, 
Vulg .generatio) is an instance of the word in the sense 
of a certain assigned period. Psa. xlix, 19, “The gen- 
eration of his fathers” (TriZX Sept, ytvtuc 

7 raripiov a brad) Gesenius renders “tlie dwelling of his 
fathers,” i. c. the grave, and adduces Isa. xxxviii, 
12. Psa. lxxiii, 15, “ The generation of tin' children” 
(7^:2 TH, Sept, ytvtd tCov taud' croc) is “class,” 
“order,” “description;” as in Prow xxx, 11, 12, 13, 
14. Isa. liii, 8, “ Who shall declare his generation ?” 
("““I; Sept. T))v yti’tdv aurov rig cnjy/jcrcraf, Vulg. 
generatin') Lowth renders “manner of life,” in trans- 
lation and note, but adduces no precedent. Some 
consider it equivalent to ver. 10: ytvtd (Sept.) 
answers to "PT, Esth. ix, 28. Josephus uses noWyv 
ytvtd)’, Ant. i, 10, 3 (Kengstenberg, Christology of the 
Old Testament, vol. i, Washington, 1836-9 ; Pauli, Ana- 
lect. Hebraic, p. 102, Oxford, 1839). Miehaelis renders 
it, “ Where was the providence that cared for his life?” 
Gesenius and Kosenmiiller, “ Who of his contempora- 
ries reflected ?” Seiler, “ Who can describe his length 
of life?” In the New Testament (Matt, i, 17), ytvtai 
is a series of persons, a succession from the same 
stock; so used by Josephus (.4 nt. i, 7, 2); Philo (157. 
Mos. i, G03); Matt, iii, 7, yti’vypara i\icvu>v, is well 
rendered by Doddridge and others “ brood of vipers.” 
Matt, xxiv, 34, y ytvtd cirry means the. generation or 
persons then living contemporary ivith Christ (see ^lac- 
knight’s Harmony for an illustration of this sense). 
Luke xvi, 8, tig ryvytvtuv ryv iav-Cov , “in their gen- 
eration,” etc., wiser in regard to their dealings with 
the men of their generation ; Ilosenmuller gives, inter 
$e. 1 Pet. ii, 8, yivog iicXticTOV, is a “chosen people,” : 

quoted from Sept. Vers, of Isa. xliii, 20. The ancient 
Greeks, and, if we may credit Herodotus and Diodorus 
Siculus, the Egyptians also, assigned a certain period 
to a generation. The Greeks reckoned three genera- 
tions for every hundred years, i. e. 33j years to each ; 
Herod, ii, 142, ytvtai rpttg civdpuv ifcardv irtct tan, 
“ Three generations of men make one hundred years.” , 
This is nearly the present computation. To the same 
effect Clem. Alexandrinus speaks (Strom, i, 2) ; so also 
Phavorinus, who, citing the age of Nestor from Homer I 
(II. i, 250), 7f*7 d’ ydy dvo piv ytvtai, “two genera- 
tions,” says it means that in rtpifiy rd iZyKovra try, 
“lie was above sixty years old.” The Greeks, how- I 
ever, assigned different periods to a ytvtd at different 
times (PcrizoniiiB, Orig. JEgypt. p. 175 sq. ; Jcnsius, 
Fercul. Litercir. p. 6). The ancient Hebrews also reck- 
oned bv tlie generation, and assigned different spaces ! 
of time to it at different periods of their history. In 
the. time of Abraham it was one hundred years (comp. 
Gen. xv, 1G, “In the fourth generation they shall come ! 
hither”). This is explained in ver. 13, and in Exod. 1 
xii, 40, to he four hundred years. Caleb was fourth I 
in descent from Judah, and Moses and Aaron were 
fourth from Levi. In Dent, i, 35; ii, 14, Moses uses 
the term for thirty-eight years. In later times (11a- 
ruch vi, in the Epistle of Jeremiah, ver. 2) ytvtd clear- 
ly means ten years. In Matt, i, 17, ytvtd means a sin- 
gle descent from father to son. Homer uses the word 
in the same sense (II i, 250); also Herodotus (i, 3). 
(See Gescnius’s and Robinson’s Lexicons , under the 
above TIeb. and Gr. words.) — Kitto, s. v. See Gene- 
alogy, 

Generation, Eternal, of the Son of God. 

See Christology; Sonsiup-of Christ.. 

Genesis (Sept. Vii’tag, generation). the first book 
of the Law or the Pentateuch, is in Hebrew called 


6 GENESIS 

Bereshith ', from the word with which it be* 
gins. See Law. 

I. General Character . — The book of Genesis has an 
interest and an importance to which no other document 
of antiquity can pretend. If not absolutely the oldest 
hook in tlie world, it is the oldest which lays any claim 
to being a trustworthy history. There may be some 
papvrus-rolls in our museums which were written in 
Egypt about the same time that the genealogies of the 
Shemitic race were so carefully collected in the tents of 
the patriarchs. But these rolls at best contain barren 
registers of little service to tlie historian. It is said 
that there are fragments of Chinese literature which, 
in their present form, date back as far as 2200 years 
B.C., and even more (Gfrorcr, Urgeschichte , i, 215); 
but they are either calendars containing astronomical 
calculations, or records of merely local and temporary 
interest. Genesis, on the contrary, is rich in details 
respecting other races besides the race to which it more 
immediately belongs ; and the Jewish pedigrees there 
so studiously preserved are but tlie scaffolding whereon 
is reared a temple of universal history. 

If the religious books of other nations make any 
pretensions to vie with it in antiquity, in all other re- 
spects they arc immeasurably inferior. The Mantras, 
the oldest portions of the Vedas, are, it would seem, as 
old as the 14th century 1LC. (see Colehroke, Asiat. Bes. 
vii, 283, and professor Wilson’s preface to his transla- 
tion of the Big- Veda). The Zendavesta, in the opinion 
of competent scholars, is of very much more modern 
date. Of the Chinese sacred hooks, the oldest, the Yih- 
king, is undoubtedly of a venerable antiquity, but it is 
not certain that it was a religious book at nil; while 
the writings attributed to Confucius are certainly not 
earlier than the Gth century ILC. (Gfrtirer, i, 270). 

But Genesis is neither like the Vedas, a collection of 
hymns more or less sublime; nor like the Zendavesta, 
a philosophic speculation on the origin of all things; 
nor like the Yih-king, an unintelligible jumble whose 
expositors could twist it from a cosmological essay into 
a standard treatise on ethical philosophy (Hardwick, 
Christ and other Masters , 111, i, 1G). It is a history, 
and it is a religious history. The earlier portion of 
the book, as far as the end of tlie eleventh chapter, may 
properly be termed a history of the woild; the latter 
is a history of the fathers of the Jewish race. But 
from first to last it is a religious history: it begins 
with the creation of the world and of man ; it tells of 
the. early happiness of a paradise in which God spake 
with man ; of the first sin and its consequences ; of tlie 
promise of redemption ; of the gigantic growth of sin, 
and tlie judgment of the Flood ; of a new earth, and a 
new covenant with man, its unchangeableness typified 
by the how in the heavens ; of the dispersion of the 
human race over the world. It then passes to the 
story of redemption ; to the promise given to Abra- 
ham, and renewed to Isaac and to Jacob, and to all 
that chain of circumstances which paved the way for 
tlie great symbolic act of Redemption, when with a 
mighty hand and a stretched out arm Jehovah brought 
his people out of Egypt. 

It is very important to bear in mind this religious 
aspect of the history if we would put ourselves in a po- 
sition rightly to understand it. Of course the facts 
must be treated like any other historical facts, sifted in 
the same way, and subjected to the same laws of evi- 
dence. But if we would judge of the work as a whole 
we must not forget the evident aim of the writer. It 
is only in this way wc can understand, for instance, 
why the history of the Fall is given with so much 
minuteness of detail, whereas of whole generations of 
men we have nothing but a bare catalogue. Only in 
this way, too, can we account for the fact that by far 
tlie greater portion of the book is occupied, not with the 
fortunes of nations, blit with the biographies of the 
three patriarchs. For it was to Abraham, to Isaac, 
i and to Jacob that God revealed himself. It was to 


GENESIS 


11 1 


GENESIS 


them that the promise was given, which was to be the ! 
hope of Israel till “the fulness of the time” should 
come. Hence to these wandering sheiks attaches a 
grandeur and an interest greater than that of the Ba- 
bels and Nimrods of the world. The minutest circum- 
stances of their lives are worthierto be chronicled than 
the rise and fall of empires. This is not merely from 
the patriotic feeling of the writer as a Jew, but from his ; 
religious feeling as one of the chosen race. He lived 
in the land given to the fathers ; he looked for the seed 
promised to the fathers, in whom himself and all the 
families of the earth should be blessed. See Abra- 
ham. 

II. Unity of Design . — This venerable monument, 
with which the sacred literature of the Hebrews com- 
mences, and which forms its real basis, is divided into 
two main parts; one universal, and one special. The 
most ancient history of the whole human race is con- 
tained in chapters i-xi, and the history of Israel’s an- 
cestors, the patriarchs, in chapters xii-1. These two 
parts are, however, so intimately connected with each 
other that it would be erroneous to ascribe to the first 
merely the aim of furnishing a universal history. That 
a distinct plan and method characterize the w'ork is 
now generally admitted. This is aeknovdedged, in 
fact, quite as much by those who contend for, as bv ! 
those who deny the existence of different documents in 
the book. Ewald and Tuch are no less decided advo- 
cates of the unity of Genesis, ns far as its plan is con- 
cerned, than Ranke or Ilengstenberg. Ewald, indeed 
(in his Composition der Genesis), was the first who es- ; 
tablislied it satisfactorily, and clearly pointed out the 
principle on which it rests. 

What, then, is the plan of the writer? First, we 
must bear in mind that Genesis is, after all, but a por- 
tion of a larger work. The five books of the Penta- 
teuch form a consecutive whole : they arc not merely 
a collection of ancient fragments loosely strung to- 
gether, but, as -we shall prove elsewhere, a well-digest- 
ed and connected composition. See Pentateuch. 

The great subject of this history is the establishment 
of the theocracy. Its central point is the giving of j 
the law on Sinai, and the solemn covenant there rati- 
fied, whereby the Jewish nation was constituted “a 
kingdom of priests and a holy nation to Jehovah.” 
AYitli reference to this great central fact all the rest 
of the narrative is grouped. 

Israel is the people of God. God rules in the midst 
of them, having chosen them to himself. But a nation 
must have laws, therefore he gives them a law; and, 
in virtue of their peculiar relationship to God, this 
bod}'- of laws is both religious and political, defining 
their duty to God as well as their duty to their neigh- 
bor. Further, a nation must have a land, and the 
promise of the land and the preparation for its posses- 
sion are all along kept in view. 

The book of Genesis then (with the first chapters of 
Exodus) describes the steps which led to the establish- 
ment of the theocracy. In reading it we must re- 
member that it is but a part of a more extended work ; 
and we must also bear in mind these two prominent 
ideas, which give a characteristic unity to the whole 
composition, viz. the people of God, and the promised 
land. 

We shall then observe that the history of Abraham 
holds the same relation to the other portions of Genesis 
that the giving of the law does to the entire Penta- 
teuch. Abraham is the father of the Jewish nation: 
to Abraham the land of Canaan is first given in prom- 
ise. Tsaae and Jacob, though also prominent figures 
in the narrative, yet do but inherit the promise as 
Abraham’s children, and Jacob especially is the chief 
connecting link in the chain of events which leads ' 
finally to the possession of the land of Canaan. In 
like manner, the former section of the book is written 
with the same obvious purpose. It is a part of the j 
writer’s plan to tell us what the divine preparation of j 


the world was, in order to shew, first, the significance 
of the call of Abraham, and, next, the true nature of 
the Jewish theocracy. He does not (as Tuch asserts) 
work backwards from Abraham till he comes, in spite 
of himself, to the beginning of all things. He does 
not ask, Who was Abraham? answering, of the pos- 
terity of Shorn ; and who was Shem ? a son of Noah ; 
and who was Noah, etc. But he begins with the cre- 
ation of the world, because the God who created the 
world and the God who revealed himself to the fathers 
is the same God. Jehovah, who commanded his peo- 
ple to keep holy the seventh day, was the same God 
who, in six days, created the heavens and the earth, 
and rested on the seventh day from all his work. The 
God who, when man had fallen, visited him in mercy, 
and gave him a promise of redemption and victory, is 
the God who sent Moses to deliver his people out of 
Egypt. He who made a covenant with Noah, and 
through him with “all the families of the earth,” is 
the God who also made himself known as the God of 
Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob. In a word, creation 
and redemption are eternally linked together. This 
is the idea which, in fact, gives its shape to the history, 
although its distinct enunciation is reserved for the N. 
T. There we learn that all things were created by 
and for Christ, and that in him all things consist (Col. 
i, 1G, 17) ; and that by the Church is made known unto 
principalities and powders the manifest -wisdom of God. 
It w’ould be impossible, therefore, for a book which 
tells us of the beginning of the Church, not to tell us 
also of the beginning of the w'orld. 

The book of Genesis has thus a character at once 
special and universal. It embraces the world; it 
speaks of God as the God of the whole human race. 
But, as the introduction to Jewdsh history, it makes the 
universal interest subordinate to the national. Its de- 
sign is to show how God revealed himself to the first 
fathers of the Jew ish race, in order that he might make 
to himself a nation who should be his w itness in the 
midst of the earth. This is the inner principle of uni- 
ty which pervades the book. Its external framework 
we are now to examine. Five principal persons are 
the pillars, so to speak, on which the whole superstruc- 
ture rests, Adam, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 

(I.) Adam . — The creation of the w'orld,and the ear- 
liest history of mankind (ch. i-iii). As yet, uo di- 
vergence of the different families of man. 

(II.) Xoah . — The historyof Adam’s descendants tothe 
death of Noah (ch. iv-ix). Here we have (1) the line 
of Cain branching off w hile the history follow s the for- 
tunes of Seth, whose descendants are (2) traced in gen- 
ealogical succession, and in an unbroken line as far 
as Noah, and (3) the history of Noah himself (ch. vi- 
ix), continued to his death. 

(II T.) Abraham. — Noah’s posterity till the death of 
Abraham (x-xxv, 18). Here we have (1) the peo- 
pling of the whole earth by the descendants of Noah’s 
three sons (xi, 1-9). The history of tw r o of these is 
then dropped, and (2) the line of Shem only pursued 
(xi, 10-32) as far as Terah and Abraham, where the 
genealogical table breaks off. (3) Abraham is now 
the prominent figure, (xii-xxv, 18). But as Terah had 
tw o other sons, Nahor and Haran (xi, 27), some notices 
respecting their families arc added. Lot’s migration 
with Abraham into the land of Canaan is mentioned, 
as well as the fact that he w’as the father of Moab and 
Ammon (xix,37, 38), nations whose later history was 
intimately connected with that of the posterity of Abra- 
ham. Nahor remained in Mesopotamia, but his family 
is briefly enumerated (xxii, 20-24), chiefly, no doubt, 
for Rebekah’s sake, who w r as afterwards the wife of 
Isaac. Of Abraham’s own children, there branches 
off first the line of Ishmael (xxi, 9, etc.), and next the 
children by Iveturah ; and the genealogical notices of 
these tw'o branches of his posterity are apparently 
brought together (xxv, 1 (>, and xxv, 12 -18), in order 
that, being here severally dismissed at the end of Abra- 


GENESIS 


778 


GENESIS 


ham's life, the main stream of the narrative may flow 1 Elohim. Other critics, such as Illgen ( Urhunden des 


Jerusalem TempeUA rchivs, 1798), Gram berg (. Adumbra - 
Isaac’s life (xxv, 19-xxxv, 29), a life I tio libri Geneseos secundum fontes , 1828), and others, 
and uneventful. But in his sons the j went still farther, and presupposed three different docu- 


i the channel of Isaac’s fortunes. 

(IV.) Isaac.- 
in itself retiring 
final separation takes place, leaving the field clear for 
the great story of the chosen seed. Even when Na- 
lior’s family comes on the scene, as it does in ch. xxix, 
we hear only so much of it as is necessary to throw 
light on Jacob’s history. 

(V.) Jacob. — The history of Jacob and Joseph (xxxvi, 
1). — Here, after Isaac’s death, we have (1) the geneal- 
ogy of Esau (ch. xxxvi), who then drops out of the 
narrative, in order that (2) the history of the patriarchs 


ments in Genesis. Yater went much beyond Eichhorn. 
He fancied himself able to combat the authenticity 
of the Pentateuch by producing a new hypothesis. He 
substituted for Eichhorn ’s “document-hypothesis” his 
own “ fragment-hypothesis,” which obtained great au- 
thority, especially on account of its being adopted by 
De Wette. According to this opinion, Genesis, as well 
as the greater part of the Pentateuch, consists of a 
great number of very small detached fragments, inter- 


may be carried on without interruption to the death of , nally unconnected with each other, but transcribed 


Joseph (ch. xxxvii-1). 


I seriatim, although originating in very different times 


Thus it will be seen that a specific plan is preserved ' and from different authors. This “ fragment-hypoth- 
throughout. The main purpose is never forgotten, esis” has now been almost universally given up. Even 
God’s relation to Israel holds the first place in the its zealous defenders, not excepting De Wette himself, 
writer’s mind. It is this which it is his object to con- have relinquished it. In its place the former “docit- 
vey. The history of that chosen seed who were the ment-hypothesis” has been resumed by some critics, 
heirs of the promise, and the guardians of the divine simplified, however, and supported by new and better 
oracles, is the only history which interprets man’s re- | arguments. There is at present a great variety of 


lation to God. By its light all others shine, and may 
be read when the time shall come. Meanwhile, as the 
different families drop off here and there from the prin- 
cipal stock, their course is briefly indicated. A hint 
is given of their parentage and their migrations ; and 
then the narrative returns to its regular channel. Thus 
the whole book may be compared to one of those vast 
American rivers which, instead of being fed by tribu- 
taries, send off here and there certain lesser streams or 
bayous, as they are termed, the main current mean- 


opinion among divines concerning this hypothesis. 
The leading features of this diversity may be comprised 
in the following summary. According to the view of 
Stfihelin, De Wette, Ewald,Von Bohlen, Tuch, Kno- 
bel. Delitzsch, and others, Genesis is founded on two 
principal original documents. That of Elohim is close- 
ly connected in its parts, and forms a Avliole, while 
that of Jehovah is a mere complementary doetqnent, 
supplying details at those points where the former is 
abrupt and deficient, etc. These two documents are 


while flowing on with its great mass of Avater to the I said to have been subsequently combined by the hand 


Beyond all doubt, then, we may trace in the book 
of Genesis in its present form a systematic plan. It is 
no hasty compilation, no mere collection of ancient 
fragments Avithout order or arrangement. It coheres 
by an internal principle of unity. Its Avhole structure 
presents a very definite and clearly marked outline. 
But does it follow from rhis that the book, as it at 
present stands, is the Avork of a single author? 

III. Unity of Composition . — This, Avhich is a point in 


of an editor, so ably as often to render their separation 
difficult, if not altogether impossible. But Banke, 
Ilengstenberg, Dreehsler, Havernick, Baumgarten, 
Keil, and others, maintain that Genesis is a book close- 
ly connected in all its parts, and composed by only one 
author, while the use of the tAvo different names of God 
is not OAving to tAvo different sources on which Genesis 
is founded, but solely to the different significations of 
these two names. The great weight, of probability 
lies on the side of those Avho argue for the existence of 


dispute among the critics Avitli regard to all the books different documents, but only as sources to some ex- 
of the Pentateuch, has been particularly questioned in tent which, together Avith original materials, Avere 
the case of Genesis. The question Avas raised wbeth- Avrought by the author into one homogeneous whole, 
er the sources from which the Avriter of Genesis dreAv 1. It is almost impossible to read the book of Gene- 
his information Avere written documents or oral tradi- 1 sis Avitb anything like a critical eye without being 
tion. Writers as early as Yitringa ( Obs . Sac. i, 4), struck with the great peculiarities of style and lan- 


Biehard Simon, Clerieus, and others, though they Avere 
of opinion that Genesis is founded on written sources, 
did not undertake to describe the nature and quality 


guag 2 which certain portions of it present. Thus, for 
instance, chap, ii, 3-iii, 24 is quite different both from 
chap, i and from chap. \v. Again, chap, xiv and (ac- 


of those sources. Another opinion, advanced by Ot- cording to Jahn) chap, xxiii are evidently separate 


mar in Henke’s Mayttz. ii, that Egyptian pyramids 
and other monuments of a similar nature Avere the 
sources of Genesis, Avas but transient in the critical 


documents, transplanted in their original form Avithont 
correction or modification into the existing Avork. In 
fact, there is nothing like uniformity of style till we 


world; Avhile the attempt of some critics not only to come to the history of Joseph. 
reneAv the previous assumption that Genesis is founded j 2. We are led to the same conclusion by the inscrip- 
on Avritten sources, but also to determine more closely tions which are prefixed to certain sections, as ii, 4 ; A r , 
the character of those sources, has gained more lasting 1 ; A r i, 9 ; x, 1 ; xi, 10, 27, and seem to indicate so many 
approval among the learned. Why different names older documents. 

of God are preA r alent in different portions of Genesis is 3. The resumptive form of some of the narratives, 
a question much discussed by early theologians and c. g. the repetition of the account of the creation of 
rabbis. Astruc, a Belgian physician, in his Conjectures \ man in chap, ii, with additional particulars, is evidence 


sur les Mimaires oriejinaux , etc. (Bruxelles, 1753-ST, Avas 
the first to apply the tAvo IlebreAV names of God,./ie- 
hovah and Elohim , to the subject at issue. Astruc as- 
sumed that there had originally existed a number of 
isolated documents, some twelve in all, Avhich had sub- 
sequently, by the fault of transcribers, been joined and 
strung together in the present form of Genesis. Eich- 


of the same character. We may even hazard the con- 
jecture that the pure cosmogony of chap, i may liavo 
been one of the mysteries of the Egyptian theosophy, 
while the more distinct accounts of the subsequent 
chapters may have been derived from the early tradi- 
tions of the HebreAvs and cognate nations. Sec Moses. 

4. Basil v, the distinct use of the divine names, Ji in- 


born's critical genius procured for this hypothesis a rah in some sections, and Elohim in others, is cliarac- 
favorablc reception almost throughout the whole of I teristic of two different AA'riters ; and other peculiarities 
Germany. See Astuuc. Eichhorn pruned a*Avay its of diction it has been observed fall in with this usage, 
excrescences, and confined his-own vieAV to the assump- : and go far to establish the theory. All this is quite in 
tion of only tAvo different documents, respect iA'elv char- j harmony with Avbat avg might have expected a priori, 
acterized by the two different names of Jehovah and j viz., that if Moses or any later Avriter Avere the author 


GENESIS 


779 


GENESIS 


of the book, he would have availed himself of existing 
traditions, either oral or written. That they might 
have been written is now established beyond all doubt, 
the art of writing having been proved to be much ear- 
lier than Moses. That they were written we infer 
from the book itself. Yet these peculiarities are not 
so absolute as to show that the same writer did not 
embody them all into one composition, for they are 
sometimes found blended in the same piece. 

The evidence alluded to is strong; and nothing can 
be more natural than that an honest historian should 
seek to make his work more valuable by embodying 
in it the most ancient records of his race ; the higher 
the value which they possessed in his eyes, the more 
anxious would he be to preserve them in their original 
form. Those particularly in the earlier portion of the 
work were perhaps simply transcribed. In one in- 
stance we have what looks like an omission (ii, 4), 
where the inscription seems to promise a larger cos- 
mogony. Here and there throughout the book we 
meet with a later remark, intended to explain or sup- 
plement the earlier monument. In some instances 
there seems to have been so complete a fusion of the 
two principal documents, the Elohistic and the Jeho- 
vistie, that it is no longer possible accurately to distin- 
guish them. The later writer, the Jehovist, instead 
of transcribing the Elohistic account intact, thought fit 
to blend and intersperse with it his own remarks. AVe 
have an instance of this, according to Hupfeld (Z)/e 
Quellen der Genesis), in chap, vii : vers. 1-10 arc usu- 
ally assigned to the Jehovist; but whilst he admits 
this, he detects a large admixture of Elohistic phrase- 
ology and coloring in the narrative. But this sort of 
criticism, it must be admitted, is very doubtful. Many 
other instances might be mentioned where there is the 
same difficulty in assigning their own to the several 
authors. Thus in sections generally recognised as 
Jehovistic, chaps, xii, xiii, xix, here and there a sen- 
tence or a phrase occurs which seems to betray a dif- 
ferent origin, as xii, 5; xiii, G; xix, 20. These an- 
omalies, however, though it may be difficult to account 
for them, can hardly be considered of sufficient force 
entirely to overthrow the theory of independent docu- 
ments which has so much, on other grounds, to recom- 
mend it. Certainly when Iveil, IIeng.>tenberg, and 
others, who reject this theory, attempt to account for 
the use of the divine names on the hypothesis that the 
writer designedly employed the one or the other name 
according to the subject of which he was treating, their 
explanations are often of the most arbitrary kind. As 
a whole, the documentary character of Genesis is so re- 
markable when we compare it with the later books of 
the Pentateuch, and is so exactly what we might ex- 
pect, supposing a Mosaic authorship of the whole, that, 
whilst contending against the theory of different docu- 
ments in the later portions, we feel convinced that this 
theory is the only tenable one in Genesis. 

Of the two principal documents, the Elohistic is the 
earlier. So far as we can detach its integral portions, 
thej' still present the appearance of something like a 
connected work. This has been very well argued by 
Tucli {Die Genesis , Allgam. Einl. li lxv), as well as by 
Ilnpfeld ( Die Quellen dtr Genesis), Knobel, and De- 
litzsch. This whole theory of a double origin of the 
book, however, is powerfully opposed by Tiele in the 
Stud. u. Krit. 1852, i. 

Ilupfeld, however, whose analysis is very careful, 
thinks that he can discover traces of three original rec- 
ords, an earlier Elohist, a Jehovist, and a later Elohist. 
These three documents were, according to him, subse- 
quently united and arranged by a fourth person, who 
acted as editor of the whole. His argument is inge- 
nious and worthy of consideration, though it is at times 
too elaborate to he convincing. 

The following table of the use of the divine names 
in Genesis will enable the reader to form his own judg- 
ment as to the relative probability of the hypotheses j 


above mentioned. Much as commentators differ con- 
cerning some portions of the book, one pronouncing 
passages to be Elohistic which another, with equal con- 
fidence, assigns to the Jehovist, the fact is certain that 
whole sections are characterized by a separate use of 
the divine names. (See Quarry, Genesis, p. 400 sq.) 

(1.) Sections in which Elohim is found exclusively, 
or nearly so: chap, i-ii, 3 (creation of heaven and 
earth); v (generations of Adam), except ver. 29, where 
Jehovah occurs; vi, 9-22 (generations of Noah); vii, 
9-24 (the entering into the ark), but Jehovah in ver. 
16 ; viii, 1-19 (end of the flood) ; ix, 1-17 (covenant 
with Noah); xvii (covenant of circumcision), where, 
however, Jehovah occurs once in ver. 1, as compared 
with Elohim seven times; xix, 29-38 (conclusion of 
Lot’s history) ; xx (Abraham’s sojourn at Gerar), 
where again we have Jehovah once and Elohim four 
times, and Ha-elohim twice; xxi, 1-21 (Isaac’s birth 
aiul Islnnael’s dismissal), only xxi, 1, Jehovah; xxi, 
22-34 (Abraham’s covenant with Abimeleeh), where 
Jehovah is found once; xxv, 1-18 (sons of Kcturah, 
Abraham's death, aud the generations of Ishmael), 
Elohim once; xxvii, 4G-xxviii, 9 (Jacob goes to Ha- 
van, Esau’s marriage), Elohim once, and El Shaddai 
once; xxxi (Jacob’s departure from Laban), where 
Jehovah twice; xxxiii-xxxvii (Jacob’s reconciliation 
with Esau, Dinah and the Shechemites, Jacob at Beth- 
el, Esau's family, Joseph sold into Egypt). It should 
be observed, however, that in large portions of this 
section the divine name does not occur at all. (See 
below.) xl-I (history of Joseph in Egypt): here we 
have Jehovah once only (xii x, 18). [Exod. i-ii (Is- 
rael’s oppression in Egypt, and birth of Moses as de- 
liverer).] 

(2.) Sections in which Jehovah occurs exclusively, 
or in preference to Elohim: iv (Cain and Abel, and 
Cain’s posterity), where Jehovah ten times and Elo- 
I im only once; vi, 1-8 (the sons of God and the 
daughters of men, etc.) ; vii, 19 (the entering into the 
ark), but Elohim once, ver. 9; viii, 20-22 (Noah’s al- 
tar and Jehovah’s blessing); ix, 18-27 (Noah and bis 
sons); x (the families of mankind as descended from 
Noah); xi, 1-9 (the confusion of tongues); xii, 1-20 
(Abram’s journey first from Ilaran to Canaan, and 
then into Egypt) ; xiii (Abram's separation from Lot) ; 
xv (Abram’s faith, sacrifice, and covenant) ; xvi (Ha- 
gar and Ishmael), where once; xviii-xix, 28 

(visit of the three angers to Abram, Lot, destruction 
of Sodom and Gomorrah); xxiv (betrothal of Ilebekah 
and Isaac’s marriage) ; xxv, 19-xxvi, 35 (Isaac's sons, 
his visit to Abimeleeh, Esau’s wives); xxvii, 1-46 
(Jacob obtains the blessing), but in ver. 28 Ha-elohim ; 
xxx, 25-43 (Jacob’s bargain with Laban), where, how- 
ever, Jehovah only once; xxxviii (Judah’s incest); 
xxxix (Jehovah with Joseph in Potiphar’s house and 
in the prison). [Exod. iv, 18-31 (Moses’s return to 
Egypt) ; v (Pharaoh’s treatment of the messengers of 
Jehovah).] 

(3.) The section Gen. ii, 4-iii, 24 (the account of 
Paradise and the Fall) is generally regarded as Jeho- 
vistic, but it is clearly quite distinct. The divine 
name as there found is not Jehovah, hut Jehovah Elo- 
him (in which form it only occurs once beside in the 
Pentateuch, Exod. ix, 38), and it occurs twenty times; 
the name Elohim being found three times in the same 
section, once in the mouth of the woman, and twice in 
that of the serpent. 

(4.) In Gen. xiv the prevailing name is El-Elyon 
(Auth.Vers. “the most high God”), and only once, in 
Abranis mouth, “Jehovah, the most high God,” which 
is quite intelligible. 

(5.) Some few sections are found in which the names 
Jehovah and Elohim seem to he used promiscuously. 
This is the case in xxii, 119 (the offering up of Isaac) ; 
xxviii, 10-22 (Jacob’s dream at Bethel) ; xxix, 31- 
xxx, 24 (birth and naming of the eleveu sons of Ja- 


GENESIS 


780 


GENESIS 


cob); ami xxxii (Jacob’s wrestling with the angel). 
[Exod. iii, 1-iv, 17 (the call of Moses).] 

(G.) It is worthy of notice that of the other divine 
names Adonai is always found in connection with Je- 
hovah, execpt Gen. xx, 4; whereas El, El-Shaddai, 
etc., occur most frequently in the Elohistie sections. 

(7.) In the following sections neither of the divine 
names occur: Gen. xi, 10-32; xxii, 20-24; xxiii ; 
xxv, 27-34; xxvii, 40-45; xxix, 1-30; xxxiv; xxxvi; j 
xxxvii : xl [Exod. ii, 1-22]. 

IV. The historical character of the contents of Gen- 
esis forms a more comprehensive subject of theological 
discussion. It is obvious that the opinions regarding 
it must be principally influenced by the dogmatical 
views and principles of the respective erities them- 
selves. lienee the great variety of opinion that still 
prevails on that subject. Some, as Vatkc, Von Roh- 
len, and others, assert that the whole contents of Gen- 
esis are unhistorical. Tuch and others consider Gen- 
esis to be interwoven, with mythical elements, but 
think that the rich historical elements, especially in the 
account of the patriarchs, can be clearly discerned. 
Some, again, limit the mythological part to the tirst 
two chapters only ; while others perceive in the whole 
book a consistent and truly historical impress. The 
field of eontrovers}' is here so extensive, and the argu- 
ments on both sides are so numerous, that we must 
content ourselves in this article with a very few re- 
marks on the subject. 

Genesis is a book consisting of two contrasting parts : 
the first introduces us into the greatest problems of the 
human mind, such as the creation and the fall of man; 
and the second into the quiet solitude of a small, de- 
fined circle of families. In the former, the most sub- 
lime and wonderful events are described with child- 
like simplicity ; while in the latter, on the contrary, 
the most simple and common occurrences are interwo- 
ven with the snblimest thoughts and reflections, ren- 
dering the small family circle a whole world in histo- 
ry, and the principal actors in it prototypes for a 
whole nation and for all times. Not the least trace 
of mythology appears in it. Genesis plainly shows 
how very far remote the Hebrew mode of thinking 
was from mythical poetry, which might have found 
ample opportunity of being brought into play when 
the writer began to sketch the early times of the Cre- 
ation. It is true that the primeval wonders, the mar- 
vellous deeds of God, are the very subject of Genesis. 
None of these wonders, however, bear a fantastical 
impress, and there is no useless prodigality of them. 
They are all penetrated and connected by one common 
leading idea, and all are related to the counsel of God 
for the salvation of man. This principle sheds its lus- 
trous beams through the whole of Genesis; therefore 
the wonders therein related are as little to be ascribed 
to the invention and imagination of man as the whole 
plan of God for human salvation. The foundation of 
the divine theocratic institution throws a strong light 
upon the early patriarchal times; the reality of the 
one proves the reality of the other, as described in 
Genesis. 

Luther used to say, ‘‘Nihil pulchrius Genesi, nihil 
ntilius.” Rut hard critics have tried all they can to 
mar its beauty and to detract from its utility. In 
fact, the bitterness of the attacks on a document so 
venerable, so full of undying interest, hallowed by the 
love of many generations, makes one almost suspect 
that a secret malevolence must have been the main- 
spring of hostile criticism. Certain it is that no book 
has met with more determined and unsparing assail- 
ants. To enumerate and to reply to all objections 
would be impossible. AVe will only refer to some of 
the most important. 

1. The story of Creation, as given in the first chap- 
ter, has been set aside in two ways : first, by placing it 
on the same level with other cosmogonies which are to 
be found in the saered writings of all nations ; and | 


next, by asserting that its statements are directly con- 
tradicted hy the discoveries of modern science. 

(«.) Now when we compare the Biblical with all 
other known cosmogonies, we are immediately struck 
with the great moral superiority of the former. There 
is no confusion here between the divine Creator and 
his work. God is before all things, God creates all 
things; this is the sublime assertion of the Hebrew 
writer. On the contrary, all the cosmogonies of the 
heathen world err in one of two directions : either they 
are dualistie, that is, they regard God and matter as two 
eternal co-existent principles ; or they are pantheistic, 
i. e. they confound God and matter, making the mate- 
rial universe a kind of emanation from the great Spirit 
which informs the mass. Roth these theories, with 
their various modifications, whether in the more subtle 
philosophemes of the Indian races, or in the rougher 
and grosser systems of the Phoenicians and Babyloni- 
ans, are alike exclusive of the idea of creation. With- 
out attempting to discuss in anything like detail the 
points of resemblance and difference between the Bib- 
lical record of creation and the myths and legends of 
other nations, it may suffice to mention certain particu- 
lars in which the superiority of the Hebrew' account 
can hardly he called in question. First, the Hebrew 
story alone clearly acknowledges the personality and 
j unity of God. Secondly, here only do we find reeog- 
nised a distinct aet of creation, by creation being un- 
derstood the calling of the whole material universe into 
existence out of nothing. Thirdly, there is here only 
a elear intimation of that great law of progress which 
we find everywhere observed. The order of creation, 
as given in Genesis, is the gradual progress of all 
things, from the lowest and least perfect to the highest 
and most completely developed forms. Fourthly, there 
is the fact of a relation between the personal Creator 
and the work of his fingers, and that relation is a rela- 
tion of love ; for God looks upon his creation at every 
stage of its progress, and pronounces it very good. 
Fifthly, there is throughout a sublime simplicity which 
of itself is characteristic of a history, not of a myth or 
of a philosophical speculation. See Cheatiijn. 

( b .) It would occupy too large a space to discuss at 
any length the objections which have been urged from 
the results of modern discovery against the literal truth 
of this chapter. One or two remarks of a general kind 
must here suffice. It is argued, for instance, that light 
could not. have existed before the sun, or, at any rate, 
not that kind of light which would he necessary for 
the support of vegetable life ; whereas the Mosaic nar- 
rative makes light created on the first day, trees and 
plants on the third, and the sun on the fourth. To 
this we may reply, that w r e must not too hastily build 
an argument upon our ignorance. AVe do not know 
that the existing laws of creation were in operation 
when the creative fiat was first put forth. The very 
aet of creation must have been the introducing of law's ; 
hut when the work was finished, those laws must have 
suffered some modification. Men arc not now' created 
in the full stature of manhood, hut are horn and grow'. 
Similarly, the lower ranks of being might have been 
influenced bv certain necessary conditions during the 
first stages of their existence, which conditions were 
afterwards removed without any disturbance of the 
natural functions. Again, it is not certain that the 
language of Genesis can only mean that the sun was 
created on the fourth day. It may mean that then 
only did that luminary become visible to our planet. 

“With regard to the six days, many have thought 
that they ought to he interpreted as six periods, with- 
out defining what the length of those periods is. No 
one can suppose that the divine rest was literally a 
rest of twenty-four hours only. On the contrary, the 
divine Sabbath s'till continues. There has been no 
creation sinee the creation of man. This is what Gen- 
esis teaches, and this geology confirms. But God, aft- 
er six periods of creative activity, entered into that 


GENESIS 


781 


GENESIS 


Sabbath in which his work has been, not a work of 
creation, but of redemption (John v, 17). No attempt, 
however, which has as yet been made to identify these 
six periods with corresponding geological epochs can 
be pronounced satisfactory. See Geology. On the 
other hand, it seems rash and premature to assert that 
no reconciliation is possible. What we ought to main- 
tain is, that no reconciliation is necessary. It is cer- 
tain that the author of the first chapter of Genesis, 
whether Closes or some one else, knew nothing of ge- 
ology or astronomy. It is certain that he made use of 
phraseology concerning physical facts in accordance 
with the limited range of information which he pos- 
sessed. It is also certain that the Bible was never in- 
tended to reveal to us knowledge of which our own 
faculties, rightly used, could put us in possession. We 
have no business, therefore, to expect anything but 
popular language in the description of physical phe- 
nomena. Thus, for instance, when it is said that by 
means of the firmament God divided the waters which 
were above from those which were beneath, we admit 
the fact without admitting the implied explanation. 
The Hebrew supposed that there existed vast reser- 
voirs above him corresponding to the k ‘ waters under 
the earth.” )Ve knov r that by certain natural proc- 
esses the rain descends from the clouds. But the fact 
remains the same that there are waters above ns well 
as below. Further investigation may perhaps throw 
more light on these interesting questions. Meanwhile 
it may safely be said that modern discoveries are in no 
way opposed to the great outlines of the Mosaic cos- 
mogony. That the world was created in six stages, 
that creation was by a law of gradual advance, begin- 
ning with inorganic matter, and then advancing from 
the lowest organisms to the highest, that since the ap- 
pearance of man upon the earth no new species have 
conic into being; these arc statements not only not 
disproved, hut the two last of them at least amply con- 
firmed by geological research. 

2. To the description of Paradise, and the history of 
the Fall and of the Deluge, very similar remarks ap- 
ply. All nations have their own version of these 
facts, colored by local circumstances, and embellished 
according to the poetic or philosophic spirit of the 
tribes among whom the tradition has taken root. But 
if there be any one original source of these traditions, 
any root from which they diverged, wc cannot doubt 
where to look for it. The earliest record of these mo- 
mentous facts is that preserved in the Bible. We can- 
not doubt this, because the simplicity of the narrative is 
greater than that of any other work with which we are 
acquainted. This simplicity is an argument at once in 
favor of the greater antiquity, and also of the greater 
truthfulness of the story, ft is hardly possible to sup- 
pose that traditions so widely spread over the surface 
of the earth as are the traditions of the Creation, the 
Fall, and the Deluge, should have no foundation what- 
ever in fact. It is quite as impossible to suppose that 
that version of these facts, which in its moral and re- 
ligious aspect is the purest., is not also, to take the 
lowest ground, the most likely to be true. 

(1.) Opinions have differed whether we ought to 
take the story of the Fall in Gen. iii to be a literal 
statement of facts, or whether, with many expositors 
since the time of Philo, we should regard it as an alle- 
gory, framed in child-like words as befitted the child- 
hood of the world, but conveying to us a deeper spir- 
itual truth. But in the latter case we ought not to 
deny that spiritual truth. Neither should wc overlook 
the very important bearing which this narrative has 
on the whole of the subsequent history of the world 
and of Israel. Delitzsch well says, “ The story of the 
Fall, like that of the Creation, has wandered over the 
world. Heathen nations have transplanted and mixed 
it up with their geography, their history, their mythol- 
ogy, although it has never so completely changed form, 
and color, and spirit that you cannot recognise it. 


Here, however, in the Law, it preserves the character 
of a universal, human, world-wide fact ; and the groans 
of Creation, the Redemption that is in Christ Jesus, and 
the heart of every man, conspire in their testimony to 
the most literal truth of the narrative.” See Fall 
of Max. 

(2.) The universality of the Deluge, it may be proved, 
is quite at variance with the most certain facts of ge- 
ology. But then we are not bound to contend for a 
universal deluge. The Biblical writer himself, it is 
true, supposed it to be universal, but that was only be- 
cause it covered what was then the known world: 
there can be no doubt that it did extend to all that 
part of the world which was then inhabited; and this 
is enough, on the one hand, to satisfy the terms of the 
narrative, while, on the other, the geological difficulty, 
as well as other difficulties concerning the ark, and tiie 
number of animals, disappears with this interpretation. 
See Deluge. 

3. When we come down to a later period in the nar- 
rative, where we have the opportunity of testing the 
accuracy of the historian, we find it in many of the 
most important particulars abundantly corroborated. 

(1.) Whatever interpretation we may be disposed to 
put on the story of the confusion of tongues, and the 
subsequent dispersion of mankind, there is no good 
ground for setting it aside. Indeed, if the reading of 
a cylinder recently discovered at Birs Nimrud may be 
trusted, there is independent evidence corroborative of 
the Biblical account. But, at any rate, the other ver- 
sions of this event are far less probable (see these in 
Josephus, Ant. i, 4, 3; Euseb. Prwp. Ev. ix, 14). The 
later myths concerning the wars of the Titans with the 
gods are apparently based upon this story, or rather 
upon perversions of it. But it is quite impossible to 
suppose, as Kalisch does ( Genesis , p. 313), that “ the 
Hebrew historian converted that very legend into a 
medium for solving a great and important problem.” 
There is not the smallest appearance of anv such de- 
sign. The legend is a perversion of the history, not 
the history a comment upon the legend. The inci- 
dental remark concerning the famous giants, the prog- 
eny of the “ sons of God” ami the “sons of men” (Gen. 
vi, 4), seems to be the true key to the demigod heroes 
of ancient mythology. 

(2.) As to the fact implied in this dispersion, that all 
languages had one origin, philological research has not 
as yet been carried far enough to lead to any very cer- 
tain result. Many of the greatest philologists (Bopp, 
Lcpsius, Burnouf, etc. ; Renan, Ilistoire des Lanyues 
Semitiques , 1. v, c. 2, 3) contend for real affinities be- 
tween the Indo-European and the Shemitic tongues. 
On the other hand, languages like the Coptic (not to 
mention many others) seem at present to stand out 
in complete isolation. The most that has been ef- 
fected is a classification of languages into three great 
families. This classification, however, is in exact ac- 
cordance with the threefold division of the race in 
Shem, Ham, and Japhet, of which Genesis tells us. 
See Philology (Comparative). 

(3.) Another fact which rests on the authority of the 
earlier chapters of Genesis, the derivation of the whole 
human race from a single pair, has been abundantly 
confirmed by recent investigations. For the full proof 
of this, it is sufficient to refer to Prichard’s Physical 
History of Mankind, in which the subject is discussed 
with great earc and ability. See Adam. 

(4.) One of the strongest proofs of the bona-fide his- 
torical character of the earlier portion of Genesis is to 
be found in the valuable ethnological catalogue con- 
tained in chap. x. Knobel, who has devoted a volume 
( Die Volkertafcl dcr Genesis ) to the elucidation of this 
document, has succeeded in establishing its main accu- 
racy beyond doubt, although, in accordance with his 
theory as to the age of the Pentateuch, he assigns to 
it no greater antiquity than between 1200 and 1000 
B.C. See Ethnology. 


GENESIS 


1S2 


GENESIS 


Of the minute accuracy of this table we have abun- 
dant proof: for instance (Gen. x, 4), Tarshish is called 
the son of Javan. This indicates that the ancient in- 
habitants of Tarshish or Tartessus in Spain were erro- 
neously considered to be a Phoenician colony like those 
of other towns in its neighborhood, and that they 
sprang from Javan, that is, Greece. That they were 
of Greek origin is clear from the account of Herodotus 
(i, 1G3). Also (ver. 8), Ni inrod, the ruler of Babel, is 
called the son of Cush , which is in remarkable unison 
with the mythological tales concerning Bel and his 
Egyptian descent (comp. Diodor. Sic. i, 28, 81 ; Pan- 
sanias, iv, 23, 5). JSidon alone is mentioned (ver. 15), 
but not Tyrus (comp, xlix, 13), which arose only in the 
time of Joshua (Josh, xix, 23) ; and that Sidon was an 
older town than Tyrus, by which it was afterwards 
eclipsed, is certified by a number of ancient reports 
(comp, llengstenberg, De Re bus Tyriorum , p. G, 7). 

4. With the patriarchal history (xii sq.) begins a 
historical sketch of a peculiar character. The circum- 
stantial details in it allow us to examine more closely 
the historical character of these accounts. The nu- 
merous descriptions of the mode of life in those days 
furnish us with a very vivid picture. We meet every- 
where a sublime simplicity quite worthy of patriarchal 
life, and never to be found again in later history. One 
cannot suppose that it would have been possible in a 
later period, estranged from ancient simplicity, to in- 
vent such a picture. 

The autheneity of the patriarchal history could be 
attacked only by analogy, the true historical test of 
negative criticism ; but the patriarchal history has no 
analogy ; while a great historical fact, the Mosaical 
theocracy itself, might here be adduced in favor of the 
truth of Genesis. The theocracy stands without anal- 
ogy in the history of the human race, and is, neverthe- 
less, true above all historical doubt. But this theoc- 
racy cannot have entered into history without prepar- 
atory events. The facts which led to the introduction 
of the theocracy are contained in the accounts of Gene- 
sis. Moreover, this preparation of the theocracy could 
not consist in the ordinary providential guidance. r \ he 
race of patriarchs advances to a marvellous destina- 
tion : the road also leading to this destination must be 
peculiar and extraordinary. The opponents of Gene- 
sis forget that the marvellous events of patriarchal his- 
tory which offend them most, partake of that charac- 
ter of the whole by which alone this history becomes 
commensurate and possible. 

(1.) There are also many separate vestiges warrant- 
ing the antiquity of these traditions, and proving that 
they were neither invented nor adorned ; for instance, 
Jacob, the progenitor of the Israelites, is introduced 
not as the first-born, which, if an unhistorical and 
merely external exaltation of that name had been the 
aim of the author, would have been more for this pur- 
pose. 

(2.) Neither the blemishes in the history of Abra- 
ham. nor the gross sins of the sons of Jacob, among 
whom even Levi, the progenitor of the sacerdotal race, 
forms no exception, are concealed. 

(3.) The same author, ■whose moral principles are so 
much blamed by the opponents of Genesis, on account 
of the description given of the life of Jacob, produces, 
in the history of Abraham, a picture of moral great- 
ness which could have originated only in facts. 

(4.) The faithfulness of the author manifests itself 
also especially in the description of the expedition of 
the kings from Tppcr to Western Asia; in his state- 
ments concerning the person of Mclehizedek (Gen. 
xiv); in the circumstantial details given of the inci- 
dents occurring at the purchase of t he hereditary bur- 
ial-place (chap, xxiii) ; in the genealogies of Arabian 
tribes (chap, xxv) ; in the geuealogv of Edoni (chap, 
xxxvi); and in many remarkable details which are 
interwoven with the general accounts. 

(5.) Passing on to a later portion of the book, we 


find the writer evincing the most accurate knowledge 
of the state of society in Egypt. The Egyptian jeal- 
ous} r of foreigners, and especially their hatred of shep- 
herds ; the use of interpreters in the court (who, we 
learn from other sources, formed a distinct caste) ; tho 
existence of caste; the importance of the priesthood; 
the use of wine by the kings (Wilkinson, ii, 142-158); 
the fact that even at that earty time a settled trade 
existed between Egypt and other countries, are all 
confirmed by the monuments or by later writers. So 
again Joseph's priestly dress of fine linen, the chain of 
gold round his neck, the chariot on which he rides, the 
body-guard of the king, the rites of burial (though 
mentioned only incidentally), arc spoken of with a nii- 
tnue accuracy which can leave no doubt on the mind 
as to the credibility of the historian. In particular, 
the account given (xlvii, 13-2G) of the manner in 
which the Pharaohs became proprietors of all the lands, 
with the exception of those belonging to the priests, is 
confirmed by Herodotus (ii, 100), and by Diodorus Sic- 
ulus (i, 73). The manner of embalming described in 
Gen. 1 entirely agrees with the description of Herodo- 
tus, ii, 84, etc. For other data of a similar kind, com- 
pare llengstenberg (Die Bucher Mosis und A eyypten, 
p. 21 sq.). See Egypt. 

5. It is quite impossible, as has already been said, to 
notice all the objections made by hostile critics at ev- 
ery step as we advance. But it may he well to refer 
to one more instance in which suspicion has been cast 
upon the credibility of the narrative. Three stories 
are found in three distinct portions of the book, which 
in their main features no doubt present a striking sim- 
ilarity to one another, namely, the deliverances of Sa- 
rah and Ilebekah from the harems of the Egyptian 
and Philistine monarchs (xii, 10-20; xx ; xxvi, 3-11). 
These, it is said, besides containing certain improbabil- 
ities of statement, are clearly only three different ver- 
sions of the same story. 

It is of course j)ossible that these are only different 
versions of the same story. But is it psychologically 
so very improbable that the same incident should hap- 
pen three times in almost the same manner? All men 
repeat themselves, and even repeat their mistakes; 
and the repetition of circumstances over which a man 
lias no control is sometimes as astonishing as the rep- 
etition of actions which he can control. Was not the 
state of society in those days such as to render it no 
■way improbable that Pharaoh on one occasion, and 
Abimelech on another, should have acted in the same 
selfish and arbitrary manner? Abraham, too, might 
have been guilty twice of the same sinful cowardice; 
and Isaac might, in similar circumstances, have copied 
his father’s example, calling it wisdom. To say, as a 
recent expositor of this hook has done, that the object 
of the Hebrew writer was to represent an idea , such 
as “the sanctity of matrimony,” that “in his hands 
the facts are subordinated to ideas,” etc., is to cut up 
by the very roots the historical character of the hook. 
The mythical theory is preferable to this, for that 
leaves a substratum of fact, however it may have been 
embellished or perhaps disfigured by tradition. If the 
view' of Dolitzsch is correct, that xii. 10 20 is Jcho- 
vistic ; xx, Elohistic (with a Jehovistic addition, ver. 
18); xxvi, 1-13, Jehovistic, but taken from written 
documents, this may to some minds explain the repeti- 
tion of the story. 

There is a further difficulty about the age of Sarah, 
who at the time of one of the occurrences must have 
been 65 years old, and the freshness of her beauty, 
therefore, it is said, long since faded. In reply it has 
been argued that as she lived to the age of 127, she was 
then only in middle life; that consequently she would 
have been at G5 what a woman of modern Europe 
would he at 35 or - 40, an age at which personal attrac- 
tions are not necessarily impaired. 

But it is a minute criticism, hardly worth answer- 
ing, which tries to cast suspicion on the veracity of the 


GENESIS 


7 S3 


GENESIS 


writer, because of difficulties such as these. The pos- 
itive evidence is overwhelming in favor of his credi- 
Lilitv. The patriarchal tent beneath the shade of some 
spreading tree, the wealth of flocks and herds, the free 
and generous hospitality to strangers, the strife for the 
well, the purchase of the cave of Machpelah for a bur- 
ial-place — we feel at once that these are no inventions 
of a later writer in more civilized times. So again, 
what can be more life-like, more touchingly beautiful, 
than the picture of Ilagar and lshmael, the meeting of 
Abraham’s servant with Kebekah, or of Jacob with 
Rachel at the well of Ilaran? There is a fidelity in 
the minutest incidents which convinces us that wc are 
reading history 5 ', not fable. Or can anything more 
completely transport us into patriarchal times than 
the battle of the kings and the interview between Abra- 
ham and Melchizedek? The very opening of the sto- 
ry, “ In the days of Amraphel,” etc., reads like the 
work of some old chronicler who lived not far from the 
time of which lie speaks. The archaic forms of names 
of places, Bela for Zoar; Chatsatson Tamar for En- 
gedi ; Emek Sliaveh for the King’s Vale ; the Vale of 
Siddim, as descriptive of the spot which was afterwards 
the Dead Sea; the expression “Abram the Hebrew;” 
are remarkable evidences of the antiquity of the nar- 
rative. So also are the names of the different tribes 
who at that earl}" period inhabited Canaan ; the Re- 
phaim, for instance, of whom we find in the time of 
Joshua but a weak remnant left (Josh, xiii, 12), and 
the Zuziiii, Emim,Chorim, who are only mentioned be- 
sides in the Pentateuch (Deut. ii, 10, 12). Quite in 
keeping with the rest of the picture is Abraham’s “arm- 
ing his trained servants” (xiv, 14) — a phrase which 
occurs nowhere else — and, above all, the character 
and position of Melchizedek : “ Simple, calm, great, he 
comes and goes the priest-king of the divine history.” 
The representations of the Greek poets, says Creuzer 
(, Symb . iv, 378), fall very far short of this ; and, as Hii- 
vernick justly remarks, such a person could be no theo- 
cratic invention, for the union of the kingly and priest- 
ly offices in the same person was no part of the theoc- 
racy. Lastly, the name by which he knows God, “the 
most high God, possessor of heaven and earth,” oc- 
curs also in the Phoenician religions, but not amongst 
the Jews, and is again one of those slight but accurate 
touches which at once distinguishes the historian from 
the fabulist. See Melchizedek. 

V. Author and Date of Composilioji. — It will be seen, 
from what has been said above, that the book of Gene- 
sis, though containing different documents, owes its 
existing form to the labor of a single author, who has 
digested and incorporated the materials he found ready 
to his hand. A modern writer on history, in the same 
way, might sometimes transcribe passages from an- 
cient chronicles, sometimes place different accounts to- 
gether, sometimes again give briefly the substance of 
the older document, neglecting its form. 

But it is a distinct inquiry who this author or editor 
was. This question cannot properly be discussed apart 
from the general question of the authorship of the en- 
tire Pentateuch. Under that head we shall show that 
this could have been no other than Moses, and that 
the entire work was finished when he deposited a copy 
of the law within the “sides” of the sacred Ark (Deut. 
x, 5). See Pentateuch. We shall here confine our- 
selves to a notice of the attempt of some critics to as- 
certain the period when Genesis was composed, from a 
few passages in it, which they say must be anachro- 
nisms, if Moses was really the author of the book (e. g. 
Tucli, Commentar fiber Genesis , p. lxxxv sq.). 

A distinction, it is obvious, must be made between 
anachronisms of a subjective character, originating 
merely in dogmatic preconceptions, and such as relate 
to matters of fact. Thus the rejection of prophecy 
leads critics like Vater, Von Bohlcn, and Kali sell to 
conclude that passages of Scripture declaratory of mat- 
ters realized in the historv of Israel must have been 


written subsequent to such events. But even as re- 
gards matters of fact, the existence of anachronisms 
requires to be placed beyond doubt, before they can 
have any weight in sucli a case, just because of the 
improbability of a writer who wished his work to pass 
as that of an earlier age allowing such contradictions. 
To notice, however, a few examples ; Hebron (Gen. 
xiii, 18 ; xxiii, 2), it is alleged from Josh, xiv, 15; xv, 
13, was not so named until the entrance into Canaan, 
its ancient name being Kirjath-Arba (Gen. xxiii, 2). 
That Hebron was the original name appears from the 
fact that on its first mention it is so designated. In 
Abraham’s time it was also called Mamre (xxiii, 19), 
from an Ainoritish prince of that name (xiii, 18; xiv, 
13). Subsequently, but prior to the Mosaic age, the 
Anakim possessed the place, when it received the name 
of Kirjath-Arba, or the city of Arba, “a great man 
among the Anakim” (Josh, xiv, 15). The place Dan 
(Gen. xiv, 14), it is also alleged, received that name 
only in the time of the judges from the tribe of Dan, 
its original name being Laish or Lesheni (Josh, xix, 
47 ; Judg. xviii, 29). The localities, however, are by 
many thought to be quite distinct; the former being 
Dan-Jaan, between Gilead and the country round about 
Zidon (2 Sam. xxiv, 1G), the adjunct Jaan being in- 
, tended to distinguish it from Dan-Laish in the same 
neighborhood. See Dan. In Genesis, these critics 
further add, frequently occurs the name Bethel (xii, 8 ; 
xxviii, 19; xxxv, 15); while even in the time of 
I Joshua, the place was as yet called Luz (Josh, xviii, 
13). But the name Bethel was not first given to the 
I place by the Israelites in the time of Joshua, there be- 
ing no occasion for it, since Bethel was the old patri- 
! archal name, which the Israelites restored in the place 
I of Luz, a name given by the Canaanites. The ex- 
I planatory remarks added to the names of certain places, 

| as “ Bela, which is Zoar” (Gen. xiv, 2, 8); “ En-misb- 
! pat, which is Kadesli” (vcr. 7), and some others, the 
opponents of the genuineness regard as indications of 
| a later age, not considering that these explanations 
were required even for the Mosaic age, as the ancient 
designations were forgotten or rarely used. For prov- 
ing them to be anachronisms, it must be shown that 
the new names were unknown in the time of Moses, 
though with the exception of “the king’s dale” (xiv, 
17), which does not again occur till 2 Sam. xviii, 16, 
j all the names are referred to as well known in the 
books of the period immediately succeeding. The no- 
i tice that “the Canaanite was then in the land” (xii, 
G; xiii, 7), is thought to imply that the Canaanites 
were still in possession of Palestine, and so could not 
have been written till after their expulsion. But such 
is not the import of the passage. The descent of the 
Canaanites from Ham, and their progress from the 
south towards Palestine, had been described (x, 15-19), 
and they are now represented as in possession of the 
land to which the “sons of Eber” were advancing from 
an opposite point. Standing in connection with the 
promise of the land to Abraham, this notice contrasts 
the present with the promised future. The passage 
(Gen. xv, 18) where the land of Israel is described as 
extending from the river of Egypt (the Nile) to the 
great river (Euphrates), it is alleged, could only have 
been penned during the splendid period of the Jews, 
the times of David and Solomon. Literally taken, 

| however, the remark is inapplicable to any period, 

] since the kingdom of the Jews at no period of their 
| history extended so far. That promise must, there- 
I fore, be taken in a rhetorical sense, describing the cen- 
tral point of the proper country as situated between 
the two rivers. The remark, “Before there reigned 
any king over the children oi Israel” (xxxvi, 31), 
could not have been made, it is maintained, until the 
establishment of the Hebrew monarchy — an assump- 
tion which overlooks the relation of this statement to 
the promises of a royal posterity to the patriarchs, and 
especially that in an immediately preceding passage 


GENESIS 


784 


GENESIS 


(xxxv, 11). Tt stands in a relation similar to Dent. [ 1GG5, Lips. 1711 ; Vitemb. 171 G, 4to): Calov, Common. 
xvii, 11, where the erection of a kingdom is viewed as | tarius (Vitemb. 1 G71 , 4to); Hughes, Exposition (Load, 
a necessary step in Israel's development. This ex- 1672, fob); Cocceius, Commentarius (in Opp>. i, 1) ; also 
planation will of course not satisfy those who hold that Curat (ib. ii, 1); Anonymous, Traduction , etc. [patris- 
in a simple historical style, a statement having such tic] (Paris, 168*2, l*2mo); Masson, Quasliones (Paris, 


prophetical reference “is not only preposterous, but 3G85-8, 3 vols. 12mo); Pom parte, Notai [from profane 
impossible” (Kalisch, Genesis, p. 001); but against ra- sources] (Amst. 1G89) ; Akiba-Bar, SpZ? [Rab- 


tioualistic prepossessions of this kind there is no ar- 
guing. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. 

VI. Commentaries . — The following are expressly on 
the whole of this book, the most important being des- 
ignated by an asterisk (*) prefixed : Origen, Commen- , 
taria (in Opp. ii, 1) ; also Jlomilice (lb. ii, 52); Chrysos- 
tom, Horn flue (in Opp. iv, 3: also [Spuria ] ib. vi, 019) ; 
and Sermones (ib. iv, 74G, 790); Jerome, Qucrsiiones (in 
Opp. iii, 301); Kucherius, Commentaria (in Bill. Max. 
Pair, vi) ; Isidore, Commentaria (in Opp. p. 283) ; Da- 
mianus, Exposiiio (in Opp . iii, 889) ; Bede, Ej posit io (in 
Opp. iv, 19) ; also Quastiones (ib. viii, 78); Alenin, lu- 
te rroyationes (Ilaguenau, 1529, 8vo ; also in Opp. I, ii, 
303); Angclomus, Commentarius ( in Pez, Thesaur. IV, 

45): Bemigius, Commentarius (ib. IV, i, 1); Hugo, I 


binical] (Sulzb. 1G90, 1700, 4to, and later); * Pat rick, 
Commentary (Bond. 1G95, 4to ; afterwards embodied in 
Patrick, Lowth, Arnold, and Whitby's Comment cap on 
the Bible); Schmid, Adnotaiioncs (xirgent. 1G97, 4to) ; 
Giintzburg, inn 522 (Amst. 1713, 4to); Baruch 

ben-1 saak, ilZ?u3 [polemical] (Halle, 1714, 

4to) ; Von Sanden, Quastiones (Regiom. 171G, 4to); 
Duquet, Explication (Paris, 1732, 0 vols. 12ino); San- 
dus, Lectiones (Veil. 1733, 4to) ; Ilagemann, Betracht- 
mujen (in 3 parts, Brunswick, 1734-G, 4to) ; Lookup, 
Translation (1740, 8vo) ; Haitsma, Cune (ITaneek. 
1753, 4to) ; Dawson, Notes (Lond. 17G3-87, 3 vols. 4to) ; 
Murray, Lectures (Newe. 1777, 2 vols. Svo) ; Dubno, 
nnxz, etc. (in Mendelssohn’s Pentateuch , Berl. 1781-3, 


Annotationes (in Opp. i, 8); Rupert, Commentarii (in 1 Svo, and later); Giesebreelit, Erkldrung (Rostock, 1784 
Opp. i, 1); Aquinas, Expositio (Antwerp, 1572, Lngd. sq., 2 vols. 4to) ; Bosnians, Notes, etc. (London, 1787, 
1573, Svo; Paris, 1041, fol.); (Ecolampadins, Adnoia- j Svo); Rudiger, Erkldrung (Stendal, 1788, 8vo) ; Har- 
tiones (Basil. 1523, 153G, Svo); Zwingle, Adnotaiioncs wood, Annotations (Lond. 1789, Svo) ; Ilgcn, Urkunde , 


(Tignr. 1527 ; also in Opp. iii, 4); Zeigler, Commenta 
rii (Basil. 1540, fob); Frusius, Adsertiones (Rom. 1541 
fol.); *Lutber, Enurrationes (by different eds., part i, 
Vitemb. 1544, fol.; ii-iv, Norib. 1550-4 ; together, 
Francof. 1545-50, Svo, and later; also in Op. Exeg. I, 
ii ; in English, London, 1855, Svo) ; Melanehthon, Com- 
mentarius (in Opp. ii, 377); Muse ulus, Commentaria. 
(Basil. 1554, 15G5, 1000, fol.); Honcala, Commentarius 
(Complut. 1555, fol.); Chytrams, Commentarius (Vi- 
temb. 1557, 1558, 1590, Svo); *Marloratus, Expositio 
(Par. 1502; Morg. 1508, 1580, 1584, fol. ; Genev. 1580, 
Svo); *Calvin, In Genesim (in Opp. i; also tr. Lond. 
1578, 4to ; also ib. 1847-50, 2 vols. Svo) ; Strigcl,*SW<o- 


etc. (Ilallc, 1798, Svo) ; Franks, Remarks (Hal if. 1802, 
Svo); Dimock, Notes (Gloucester, 1804, 4to); Rosen- 
miiller, Scholia (Lips. 1821, 8vo) ; Fuller, Discourses 
(London, 1825,1830, 12mo); Close, Discourses (London, 
1828, 12mo); liudge, Lectures (London, 1828, 2 vols. 
Svo); Schumann, Annotatio (Lips. 1829, Svo); Selt- 
mann, Uebers. (Hamm, 1831, Svo); Coghlan, Commen- 
tary (London, 183*2, 2 vols. Svo) ; *Von Bohlen, Erliiu- 
tenmy (Konigsb. 3835, Svo); Von Schrank, Commen- 
tarius (Salzburg, 1835, Svo); Sibthorp, Observations 
(Lond. 1835, Svo); *Tiele, Commentar (Erl. 1830, Svo, 
vol. i) ; Warner, Exjwsition (Lond. 1838, Svo); *Tncb, 
Commentar (Halle, 1838, Svo); Priaulx, Comparison , 


Ha (Lips. 1500, 1574, Svo); Selnecker, Commentarius etc. [antiquarian] (London, 1842, Svo); *Do Sola and 
(laps. 1509, fol.); Martyr, Commentarius (Tignr. 1572, others, Notes (Lond. 1844, Svo); Heim, Lehre (Stuttg, 
1579, 1595; ITeidelb. 3 GOG, fol.); Brentius, Commenta- | 1845, Svo); * Turner, Companion (N. York, 1840, Svo); 
rii (in Opp. i); Iiroeard, Interpret atio [mystical] (L. Trevanion, Sermons (Lond. 1847, Svo) ; Schroder, A us- 
P*. 1580, Svo : ib. 1584, 4to ; Bremen, 1585, 1593, 4to) ; ! leyuny (Berl. 1848, Svo) ; Evans, Sermons (Lond. 1849, 
Fabricius, Commentarius (Lips. 3584, 3592, Svo; 1590, I 32mo); Sorensen, Commentar (Kiel, 1851, Svo) ; *l\no- 
xVrgent. 3584, 4to): *Pererius [Romanist], Commenta- bel, Erkldrung (Lpz. 3852, Svo, in the Knrzgef. exeg. 
rius (Rom. 1589-3598, 4 vols. fol. : Colon. 3001, 100G, lulbk .); Candlish, Lectures (Edinb. 1852, 2 vols. 12mo; 
Yen, 1G07, fol.; Lngd. 3G10, 4 vols. 4to ; and later); Lond. 1808, 2 vols. Svo) ; Paul, Analysis (Edinb. 1852, 
Musams, AusUgung (Magdeb. 1595, fol.) ; Martinengns, i Svo) ; *Delitzseli, Amlegung (Lpz. 385*2, 3- w 53, Svo); 
Glossa (Patav. 1597, 2 vols. fol.); Daabitz, Predigten Jervis, Notes (Lond. 1852, Svo); *Bush, Notes (N. Y. 
(Lpz. 1597, Svo) ; Mercor, Commentarius (Genev. 1598, 2 vols. 12mo) ; Macgregor, A otes (London, 185.j, 


5 (Ge 

fol.); Kalmankas, (Lublin, s. a. fol.) 

Ilaminelmann, Adnotaiioncs (Taps. 1000, fol.); Stella, 


Svo) ; Cnmming, Readings (Lond. 1853, Svo) ; Preston, 
Notes (London, 1853, Svo) ; Putnam, Gosp. in Gen. (N. 
Y. 3854, Svo): Howard, Tr. from Sept. (Cambr. 1855, 
Commentaria (Rom. 1G01, fol.) ; Sell muck, Auslegung \ 8vo ) . *Knlisch, Commentary (London, 1859, Svo); 
(L])z. 1003 9, in 8 pts. 4 to) ; Gesner, Disputationes (Vi- 1 Wright, Notes (Lond. 1859, Svo) ; Groves, Commentary 

frung (Berl. 
38GO, Svo); 


temb. 1004, 1033, 1029, 4to) ; Lvser, Commentarius (in ] (Oambr. 18G3, 32mo) ; Mandelstamm, Erkldrumj (P,erl. 
0 pts., Lips. 3004 sq., 4 to) ; *Willet, Sixfold Commen- ■ 18G2 , 4 to) ; Bolimer, Commentarius (Halle, li 



Commentaria (Yen. 1030, 4to); Ferdindez, Commenta < 
tiojies (Lngd. 3018-28, 3 vols. fol.); Babington, Notes 
(in i); Merscnmis, Quastiones [polemical] (Par. 

1023, fob); Garzia, Discussio (Coesaraug. 10*24, fob); 
Bohmc, Erkldrung [mystical] (s. 1. 1024; also in bis 
other works) ; Rivctus, Ex< reitationes ( b. B. 3033, 4 to) ; 
Gerhard, Commenittnus (Jen. 3G37, 1G54, 3093, 4 to) ; De 
la Have, Commentarii (laigd. 1G38, Par. 1051, 1003, 2 
vols. fob): Sylvius, Commentarius (Dnaei, 1039, 4to); 
Lightfoot, Observations ( bond . 304*2; also in IForEs, ii, 
329) : and Annotationes (ib. x, 532) ; Gaudentiiis, Cona- 
tus (Pisis, 1044, 4 to); Cartwright, Adnotationes [from 
Targums] (Lond. 3048, Svo;^also in Critiei Sacra , i) ; 
Rivet, Exercitationes (in Opp. 5, 1); Terser, Adnotatio- 
nes (Upsal. 1057, fob); Chemnitz, Disputationes (Jen. 


1806, Svo); Conant, Revised Version (N. Y. 1808, Svo); 
*Taylcr Lewis, Commentary (in the x\m. ed. of Lange’s 
Bibehrerk , cd. Dr. ScliafF, New York, 1808, Svo). See 
Old Testament. 

Genesius, St., a comedian of the time ofDiocle- 
sian, of whose conversion the following marvellous 
but doubtful story is told, lie was playing, before the 
emperor, the part of a candidate for Christian baptism, 
robed in the habit of a catechumen. But at the mo- 
ment in the farce when the emperor was to judge the 
new convert, he was suddenly convinced by the Holy 
Spirit, and declared himself really a convert. lie was 
scourged and tortured, but nothing could shake his 
fidelity, and he was decapitated. Different dates are 


GENET 


*8 5 


GENEVIEVE 


assigned for his death : Tillemont and Ruinart fix it at f 
A. I). 28G ; Baronins and Fleury at A.D. 303. Ills day 
in the Roman Catholic calendar is Aug. 25. Rotrou 
has made this apocryphal history the subject of a trag- 
edy. See Acta Sanctorum , August, vol. v; Ruinart, 
Acta Sincera , p. 2G9 ; Butler, Lives of the Saints , Aug. 25. 

Genet, Francois, a French prelate, was born at [ 
Avignon Oct. 1G, 1G40. lie became canon and theo- 
logian of the cathedral of Avignon, and in 1G85 bishop j 
of Vaison. 1 mplicated in the affair of the Daughters of 
Childhood of Toulouse, whom he had received in his 
diocese, and who were held to be Jansenists, he was j 
arrested in 1G88, and imprisoned for fifteen months. 
The pope finally persuaded Louis XIV to restore Ge- 
net to his diocese. lie was drowned in 1702, while on | 
his way from Avignon to Vaison. lie is the author j 
of Theologie Morale , which was disapproved by the 
bishops, and condemned by the University of Louvain, 
March 10,1703. The best edition is that of 1715 (8 
vols. 12mo) : it was reprinted at Rouen in 1749. — Hoo- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xix, 873. 

Genethliaci, astrologers, who pretended to calcu- 
late mens’ nativities by erecting schemes and horo- 
scopes, to know what position the stars were in at their 
birth, and thence to foretell their good or bad fortune. 
“And because some of these pretended to determine 
positively of the lives and deaths of kings, which was 
reputed a very dangerous piece of treason, therefore 
the laws of the state were more severe against them 
even under the heathen emperors, as Gothofred shows 
out of the ancient lawyers, Ulpian and Paulus; and 
that was another reason why the Church thought it ; 
proper to animadvert upon these with the utmost se- 
verity of ecclesiastical censures, as thinking that what 
the heathen laws had punished as a capital crime ought 
not to pass unregarded in the discipline of the Chris- 
tian Church. It was this crime that expelled Aqtiila 
from the Church. For Epiphanius says (De Mensuris 
et Ponderibus') he w r as once a Christian, but, being in- 
corrigibly bent upon the practice of astrology, the 
Church cast him out, and then he became a Jew, and 
in revenge set upon a new' translation of the Bible, to 
corrupt those texts which had any relation to the com- 
ing of Christ.” — Bingham, Orig. Bccl. bx. xvi, ch. v. 
See Divination. 

Geneva (French Geneve), capital of the Swiss can- 
ton of the same name, celebrated for its historical and 
religious associations, and in particular as the seat of the 
reformatory labors of Calvin. The canton had, in 18G0, 
82,87G inhabitants, of whom 40,0G9 were Protestants, 
42,099 Roman Catholics, 331 Dissidents, 377 Jews. 
During the Middle Ages Geneva was an object of dis- 1 
pute between the bishop of Geneva, w ho was an inline- j 
diate feudatory of the German empire, and the count I 
of Gcnevois, who ruled the adjoining province of Sa- j 
vov. After the extinction of the line of the counts of j 
Genevois, the dukes of Savoy w'ere appointed their sue- j 
ccssors by the German emperor Sigismund (1422). 
Hence the claim of Savoy upon Geneva, from which ^ 
the Genevans could only free themselves by alliances 
with the Swiss cantons of Fribourg (1519) and Berne I 
(152G), and by the aid of the Reformation. The latter 
was introduced into Geneva by Farel, Prominent, and 
others, about 1532, and in 1535 w as officially establish- 
ed. Being put under the ban by the bishop, the city 
declared the episcopal see vacant, and declared itself a 
republic. Calvin first came to Geneva in 153G, and 
after an absence of a few years returned in 1541, wdien 
he soon succeeded in making himself the temporal as 
well as the spiritual ruler of the town. Thus Geneva 
became the metropolis of Calvinism, and, as such, exer- 
cised a great infitience upon all the Calvinistic church- 
es. From 1798 to 1814 Geneva was united with France; 
in 1814, its territory having been enlarged by the an- 
nexation of a few Savoyan and French communes, it 
joined the Swiss Confederation as the 22d canton. The 1 
III.— D D D 


Reformed State Church, which in 18G8 had 1G congre- 
gations and 35 ministers, has for some time been under 
the infiuence of Rationalism, and a part of the ortho- 
dox members have therefore organized a Free Evan- 
gelical Church, which has a celebrated theological 
school, several of whose professors, as Merle d’Aubigno 
and Gaussen, have established a great theological rep- 
utation throughout the Protestant world. — Thourel, 
Histoire de Geneve (Geneva, 18G3) ; Cherbuliez, Geneve 
et les Gtnevois (Geneva, 18G8). (A. J. S.) 

Geneva Bible. See English Versions. 

Genevieve, St., the patron saint of Paris, w f as, 
according to tradition, born at Nanterre, near Paris, 
about 423. By the advice of St. Germain, bishop of 
Auxcrre, she took the vow of chastity, and when af- 
ter wards accused of hypocrisy and superstition, she 
w r as warmly defended by the bishop. When the in- 
habitants of Paris, frightened at the approach of Attila, 
contemplated leaving their city, Genevieve dissuaded 
them, saying that Paris would be spared; and as the 
prediction proved true, she became the object of general 
veneration. She also advised the building of a church 
to St. Peter and St. Paul, in which she was afterwards 
buried, and which bears her name. She died in 512. 
Her reputation for sanctity became so great that Sim- 
eon Stvlites inquired about her from all persons com- 
ing from Gaul. Miracles were said to take place at 
her tomb. There exists a life of her in Latin, claim- 
ing to have been written eighteen years after the death 
of Clovis. The life of St. Germain by the priest Con- 
stance, said to have been written during her lifetime, 
relates her consecration by that bishop. See the Bol- 
landists, Acta Sand. July 31; Charpentier, Vie de St. 
Genevieve (1G87) ; Butler, Lives of the Saints , Jan. 3. 

Genevieve, St., Canons of, called also canons 
regular of the Congregation of France, a congregation 
of canons regular (q. v.) established in 1G14 by Charles 
Faure, a member of the abbey of St. Vincent of Senlis, 
who effected a reformation of the French canons which 
w'as soon adopted by several other abbeys. Cardinal 
de la Rochefoucauld, who in 1G19 had been made abbot 
of the abbey of St. Genevieve du Mont at Paris, being 
desirous to reform his abbey, sent, in 1G24, for tw'elve 
members of St. Vincent of Senlis, and made Faure its 
spiritual superior. In 1G34 the pope confirmed the 
new' congregation. Scon after its first chapter gener- 
al was held, which w r as attended by the superiors of 
fifteen houses, and elected Faure coadjutor of the abbot 
of St. Genevieve and general of the congregation. The 
king had previously given up his right of nominating 
the abbot of St. Genevieve, and consented that he be 
elected every third year. Helyot, in his History of 
Religious Orders, states that at his time the congrega- 
tions had in France G7 abbots, 28 priors, 2 provosts, 



Canon of St. Genevieve. Daughter of St. Genevieve. 


GENEVIEVE 


786 


GENNATII 


and 3 hospitals, besides, in the Netherlands, 3 abbots | 
and 3 priors. A large number of parishes were served 
by its members. It was customary to elect one of the 
chancellors of the University of Paris from this con- 
gregation. Ilelvot, Did. des Ordres Reliy ., art. Genove- , 
fains. (A. J. S.) 

Genevieve, St., Daughters of (more common- 
ly called M iron lions), a monastic order in the Roman 
Catholic Church, founded, in 1G36, at Paris, by Fran- 
cisca de Blosset, for the purpose of nursing the sick 
and instructing girls. In 1665 it was united by Marie 
Bonneau dc Kubelle Beauharnois de Miramion with a 
similar order which she had founded in 1GG1, under the 
name of the Holy Family. The order obtained con- 
siderable reputation, and extended widely. Its mem- 
bers took no vows, but only promised a faithful obser- 
vation of the rule and the statutes of the society as 
long as they might belong to it. — Helvot, Did. des Or- 
dres Reliy., art. Miramiones. (A. J. S.) 

Genius, Attendant. See Guardian Angel. 

Gennadius, patriarch of Constantinople, succeed- 
ed Anatolius in that dignity A.D. 458. He was a 
man of quick parts, and composed Homilies; a Com- 
mentary on Paul's Epistles ; and a Commentary on Dan- 
iel. lie died A. I). 471. His writings arc lost, except 
an Epistle preserved by Grymcus, and other fragments, 
all of which are given by Migne, Patroloyia Grecca, 
tom. lxxxv. — Evagrius, Ilist. Eccl. ii, 11 ; Dupin, Eccl. 

1 1 Viters, iv, 156; Ccillicr, Auteurs Sacres (Paris, 1861), 
xi, 345. 

Gennadius, patriarch of Constantinople (whose 
proper name was George Scholarius), was one of the 
most original and prolific writers in the Greek Church 
of the loth century. He was secretary to the emperor 
John Paheologus, and attended the Council of Flor- 
ence in 1438, while yet a layman. He became an ec- 
clesiastic in 1449 or 1450, and entered a monastery, 
taking the name of Gennadius. At Florence he had 
declared himself strongly on the side of union with the 
Latin Church, in three orations to be found in Har- 
douin, Concilia, ix, 44G (supposed to be much interpo- 
lated). After becoming a monk he changed his views, 
and wrote against the Council of Fcrrara-Florence. 1 n 
1453 lie was made patriarch by the sultan, but retired 
in 1458, and died about 14G0. Some have disputed the 
identity of Scholarius with Gennadius, but Renaudot 
puts it beyond doubt. A list of his writings will be 
found in Renaudot, who edited his homily De Eucha- 
ristia (Paris, 1704), and, in a larger edit., with Meletins 
and others (Paris, 1709, 4to). 1 1 is treatise 7 rcoi irpo- 

opar/iov, De Predestinatione , was edited by Libcrtinus 
(Prague, 1G73, Svo). Migne, in Patroloyia Grwca, tom. 
clx, gives Renaudot’s dissertation on the life and writ- 
ings of Gennadius, with his writings as follows: Con- 
fessio Eidei (i, ii): — llomiliic: — Orationes in Synodo 
Elorent.: — De Predestinatione: — De Deo in Trinitate 
uno: — Epistolic ; and other writings. Fabricius, Bibli- 
otheca Grcecn (ed. llarles), xi,349 sq., gives Renaudot’s 
list of the w r ritings of Gennadius, seventy-six in num- 
ber, and adds twenty-four more. See also a list of his 
writings and their various editions, in Hoffmann, Bib- 
lioyraphhches Lexikon , ii, 155 sq. Of the writings at- 
tributed to him, perhaps the most important are the 
two Confessions made for the sultan, (1) OpiXia (or 
bpoXoyia') pijOHaa mpi rye bpOijc rc/t dfuofiiirov i tig- 
Ttujc noy XpitTTtcivutv ; and (2) a dialogue 7noi rijg 61 ov 
rpg aojrtjpiaej rioy dyOpioTrior, both given in Migne 
(Gr. and Lat.), in Kimmel, Monument a Eidei Eccles. 
Orient alls (Jena, 1850, Svo), and in Gass, Gennadius 
and Pletho (see below). Those confessions have been 
critically studied bv I)r. Otto, who gives the text 
of the dialogue, a literary history of the two confes- 
sions, and an investigation of the genuineness of the 
dialogue, in Zeitschnjt fur iiistor. Theolnyie, xx, 389 
sq. ; xxxiv, 111 sq. ; and separately, from additional 
sources, Des Patriarch Gennadlos Confession (Wien, 


18G4). Otto decides that the dialogue was not written 
by Gennadius, but is probably a recension of the £>£- 
pai mag iptoryaeig (falsely ascribed to Athanasius), 
made by some Greek, in the interest of the Church of 
Rome, to favor the union of the Greek and Latin 
churches. As it gives the procession of the Holy 
Ghost from the Father and the Son (Migne, tom. clx, 
p. 322 D), the Latins and Latinizing Greeks have made 
much use of it in the FiHoqae controversy. — Mosheim, 
Church History, cent, xv, pt. ii, chap, ii, § 23; Dupin, 
Eccl. Writers , v, 110; Fabricius, Biblioth. Graca, 1. c. ; 
Iloefer, Eouc. Bioy. Generale, xix, 913; Gass, Genna- 
dius and Pletho (Breslau, 1844). 

Gennadius, Massiliensis, a presbyter of Mar- 
seilles, a Gaul (end of 5th century). Although some 
modern writers assert that he was a bishop, some say 
of Marseilles, others of Toledo, lie was only a presb}*- 
ter. lie was versed in Greek and Latin, and a labori- 
ous student of the Scriptures and the fathers. He 
wrote a number of books, of which only two have come 
down to us: (1.) De 1 Iris illustribus , or De Scriptoribus 
Ecclesiasticis (Catalogue of Ecclesiastical Writers), a 
1 continuation of that of Jerome, to which it is usually 
joined. It begins where Jerome’s ends, A.D. 392, and 
ends 493. There have been many editions of it, be- 
sides that which is inserted in the works of St. Jerome ; 
the best is that of Fabricius, in his Bibliotheca Ecclesi- 
astica (llamb. 1718, fol.). (2.) De Ecclesiasticis Doy- 
matibus (llamb. 1594 and 1614, 4to). Gennadius .ad- 
vocates doctrines on free-will and predestination simi- 
lar to those of Faustus of Rliegium. u In his treatise 
Dc Doymatibus Ecclesiasticis, he says, God first of all 
warns man, and invites him to salvation ; it is in the 
power of man to follow him. In his work De Yiris Il- 
lustribus, cap. 38, he speaks of Augustine with commen- 
dation, yet does not hesitate to add, that by writing so 
much lie fell into the error of which Solomon says in 
the 10th chapter of Proverbs, ‘In the multitndo of 
words there wanteth not sin.’ He makes mention of 
an error which had arisen from much speaking, and 
i evidently refers to the doctrine of absolute predesti- 
nation. This arose from carrying things to an ex- 
treme, but for all this Augustine had not fallen into 
heresy” (Neander, History of Dcymas , Rvland’s transl. 
p. 383). — Dupin, Eccl. Writers, iv, 185 ; Mosheim, Ch. 
Hist, ii, 341 ; Neander, Ch. Ilist. ii, 647 ; Hook, Eccles. 
Bioy. v, 289; Cave, Hist. Lit. (Genev. 1720, fob), i, 299. 

Gennae'us (rtj'ixdor, i. e. h'yh-bom , but v. r. P*- 
rfor), apparently given (2 Macc. xii, 21 as the name 
of the father of the Syrian general Apollonius (q. v„); 
but perhaps it is a mere epithet. 

Gennath (Vtvvit5, apparently for the Chald. 
or XrOJ, yarden, q. d. “garden-gate;” perhaps [as 
Schwarz suggests. Palest, p. 254] from the “rose-gar- 
den,” r|a, mentioned in the Talmud [ Maaser . 

ii, 5] as lying west of the Temple mount), the name, 
according to Josephus (1) r ar, v, 4, 2), of one of the 
gates of Jerusalem, important as mainly determining 
the course of the second wall, which has been greatl} r 
disputed. Sec Calvary. II is account is as follows: 
“But the second (wall), while it had its beginning 
from that gate which they called ‘Gennath,’ which 
belonged to the first wall, yet encircling only the 
northern slope [or quarter], reached as far as Antonia” 
(To H Itrrtpov n)v ptv dp\ i}r «7ro TrvXtjg ei\ «i', i)v 
PfumSf itcdXovy, rov 7rpwrov ret\ovg ova ciy, kvkXov- 
fievov Ce to TrooodpKTioi' rXipa povov avytt pi\oi rijc 
‘Amoving); from which, together with the context, 
the following conclusions arc certain : (1.) The gate in 
question formed part of the first wall that skirted the 
northern brow of Mount Zion, for the second wall must 
have started from this quarter, since it ran northward, 
and lay between the first and tiie third wall on the 
same side of the city. (2.) It was situated at some point 
, cast of the tower Hippicus, which formed the common 


GENNESAli 


787 


GENNESARET 


starting-point of both the other walls, hut not of this; i 
its distance from this tower is the chief matter of dis- 
agreement between topographers ; the following con- i 
siderations will serve to show that it was considerable : 
[1.] There were two other adjacent towers, not very 
far from each other, along the same wall, and the gate 
must have been beyond them all, as they would have 
been useless for defense if inclosed within the second 
wall ; nor does the precipitous rock here admit egress 
for some distance. [2.] Several indications of the junc- 
tion of the walls, if not of the gate in question itself, 
have been discovered about 1000 feet east of the pres- 
ent Jaffa gate (Williams, Ilolt) City , i, Append, p. 83 
sq.); this would make the line of the second wall cor- 
respond very nearly to the modern division between 
the Christian and Mohammedan quarters. The only 
objection of any force against this location of the gate, 
and consequently of the wall in question, is that it 
brings the latter upon the side of a descent, where no 
engineer would think of constructing a mural defence, 
as it M ould he commanded by the higher ground out- 
side. On the other hand, the hill is not so steep as is 
implied in this argument ; there is no evidence that the 
wall here was erected specially because the nature of 
the ground afforded a peculiarly favorable situation, 
but simply to include the existing buildings; nor 
would the matter he much improved by carrying the 
wall a little further up the same general shelving 
■wedge of land, which here extends indefinitely west- 
ward. Moreover, the weakness of the second wall at 
this point may have been the reason for the construc- 
tion of the three impregnable towers expressly so as 
to flank it. See Jerusalem. 

Genne'sar, the water of (to vS<op Fevvijado), 
a place where Jonathan Maceabaaus encamped oil his 
way to attack the forces of Demetrius at lvadesh (3 j 
Mace, xi, 67) ; doubtless the Luke Gennesaret (q. vA. 

Gennes'aret \_y proa, hard] (Pfin'i/anpir), the 
Greek form of the lake (Luke v, 1) and plain (Matt, 
xiv, 34; Mark vi, 53), invariably found in the N. T. 
in place of the Gennesar (rfrr?/<T«n) of the Apocry- 
pha (1 Mace, xi, 67), and usually also of Josephus 
(ITrtr, iii, 10, 7, 8). In the Talmudieal writings and 
Targums we always find the latter form Hebraized 
Ginesur ', as an equivalent of r.123, Kinne - 
reth or Ciunnereth (Lightfoot, Works, ii, 222); from 
which accordingly it has usually been derived, by an 
interchange of 3 for and the insertion of O; al- 
though others derive it from a valley, and 
a shoot or flower, as if i. q. “the vale of flowers” (Je- 
rome, Opp. vii, 103, ed. Migne), or from a garden, 
and a prince, as if i. q. “the prince’s garden” 
(Lightfoot, i, 489), or even from Sharon, a fertile vale 
not far distant (lfeland, Paltcst. p. 193, 259). 

1. The town. This is variously named in the O. T. 

as Cinnereth (or “ Chinnereth,” Josh, xix, 35), where it 
is assigned to Naphtali. In later times it was called 
Genusar Megilla , 6, a), and in the Talmudic 

period one Jonathan ben-Charsa was from there (7b- 
siphta helim, s. f.). At the time of Farelii (beginning 
of the 14th century) it was still in existence ; doubt- 
less the ruins Gansur , still found at the present day 
one hour north-west of Tubnriyeh, according to Furst 
(Ileb. Lex. p. 676, a), although no modern map lays it 
down. See Cinnereth. 

2 . The district (N. T. yij, land'), named from its ha- 
m-like form (like the body of a *V:23, or lyre). This 
was a small region of Galilee, on the western shore of 
the lake, visited by Christ on his way (southward 
along the lake) to Capernaum (Matt, xiv, 35, 36). It 
is described bv Josephus (War, iii, 10, 8) as about four 
miles in length and three in breadth, and as distin- 
guished for its fertility and beauty. The Talmud also 
(BeraJc.44) describes the luxuriant grow th of this low- 


lying district (!"I3*jP3) under the same name (7^5:3). 
Dr. Uobinson thus describes it (Bib. Pes. iii, 282 sq.) : 
“The plain upon which we now entered from Medjel 
is at first called Ard el-Medjel, but further on takes 
the name of eU Glut weir, 4 Little Ghor,’ which strictly, 
perhaps, includes the whole. It is exceedingly fertile 
and well watered ; the soil, on the southern part at 
least, is a rich black mould, which in t he vicinity of 
Medjel is almost a marsh. Its fertility, indeed, can 
hardly be exceeded ; all kinds of grain and vegetables 
are produced in abundance, including rice in the moist- 
er parts, while the natural productions, as at Tiberias 
and Jericho, are those of a more southern latitude. 
Indeed, in beauty, fertility, and climate, the whole 
tract answers w r ell enough to the glowing though ex- 
aggerated description of Josephus. Among other pro- 
ductions, he speaks here also of walnut-trees, but we 
did not note whether any now exist.” It is a eres- 
eent-shaped plain, about three miles long and two 
broad, shut in by steep, rugged hills. Only a few 
patches of it are cultivated, its melons and cucumbers 
being the first and best in market, owing to its deep 
depression. The rest is covered with tangled thickets 
of lotus-trees, oleanders, dw'arf palms, and gigantic 
thistles and brambles. (See also Wilson, Lands of 
Bible , ii, 136 sq. ; Thomson, Land and Book , i, 535; 
Stanley, Palestine , p. 368.) In this identification of 
the plain of Gennesaret with the one in question, Mr. 
De Sau ley coincides ( Narrative , ii, 356-8 ; see also 
Haekett’s Illustra. p. 320). See Capernaum. 

3. The Lake (\ipvij, N. T. and Josephus), or water 
(rtSwp, 1 Mace, xi, 67 ; vccit a rtvvpadpa, Joseph. Ant. 
xiii, 5, 7), or sea (C^ 1 , O. T.). Josephus calls it Gen- 
nesar it is (FtwiiGapiTiQiAnt. xviii, 2, 1), and this seems 
to have been its common name at the commencement 
of our era (Strab. xvi, p. 755 ; Tlin. v, 16 ; Ptol. v, 15). 
At its north-western angle was a beautiful and fertile 
plain (Matt, xiv, 34), from w hich the name of the lake 
was taken (Josephus, War, iii, 10, 7). The lake is also 
called in the N. T. 44 Sea of Galilee,” from the province 
of Galilee which bordered on its western side (Matt, 
iv, 18; Mark vii, 31; John vi, 1); and “Sea of Tibe- 
rias,” from the celebrated city (John vi, 1 ; so also 
Harhebr. Chron. p. 400; the Talmud, Midrash Kohel. 
fol. 102, 1 ; Pausanias, Xifivi} Tifiepic, v, 7, 3; Eusebi- 
us, A ip vi) Ti j3epiciQ, Onom. s. v. Eapior; see also Cvr. 
ad Jts. i, 5). It is a curious fact that all the numerous 
names given to this lake were taken from places on its 
western side. Its modern name is likewise Bahr Tu- 
bariyeh. 

In Josh, xi, 2, “ the plains south of Chinueroth” are 
mentioned. It is the sea and not the eity that is here 
referred to (comp. Deut. iii, 17 ; Josh, xii, 3), and “ the 
plains” are those along the banks of the Jordan. Most 
of our Lord’s public life was spent in the environs of 
the Sea of Gennesaret. On its shores stood Caperna- 
um, “his own city” (Matt, iv, 13); on its shore he 
called his first disciples from their occupation as fisher- 
men (Luke v, 1-11); and near its shores he spoke 
many of his parables and performed many of his mir- 
acles. This region was then the most densely peopled, 
in all Palestine. No less than nine cities stood on the 
very shores of the lake, while numerous large villages 
dotted the plains and hill-sides around (Porter, Hand- 
book , p. 424). 

A “ mournful and solitary silence” now' reigns along 
the shores of the Sea of Gennesaret, which were in for- 
mer ages studded with great cities, and resounded with 
the din of an active and industrious people. Seven 
out of the nine cities above referred to are now unin- 
habited ruins ; one, Magdala, is occupied by half a doz- 
en mud hovels; and Tiberias alone retains a wretched 
remnant of its former prosperit}'. — Smith, s. v. See 
Galilee, Sea of. 

Gennesareth ; Gennesaritis. See Gennesa- 

ret, 


GENNEUS 


1 SB 


GENTILE 


Genne'us. See Genius. 

Genoude, Antoine Eugene de, a French priest 
ami publicist, was horn in 1792 at Montelimart. Af- 
ter the first expulsion of Napoleon he entered the ser- 
vice of Louis XVI 11, and became adjutant of the prince 
de Polignac. In 1820 he established the journal Le 
Difenseur. In 1*21 he bought the journal Etoile, the 
name of which in 1827 was changed into Gazette tie 
France. In 1822 he was ennobled. After being for 
some time censor under the ministry of Villele, he en- 
tered the priesthood, but soon devoted himself again 
wholly to the editing of political papers. After the 
Revolution of July he was one of the most violent de- 
fenders of the fallen dynasty, and was involved on 
that account in difficulties with the pope and the 
French bishops. In 1840 he was elected member of 
the Chamber of Deputies for Toulouse; and after the 
outbreak of the Revolution of 1848, lie moved in the 
Chamber of Deputies, though without effect, an ap- 
peal to the people concerning a restoration of the el- 
der branch of the Bourbons. Besides several political 
pamphlets, he wrote, La Raison da Christianisme (3d 
edit. Paris, 1841, 12 vols.) : — Les peres de Viglise t les 
trois prem. siecles (Paris, 1837): — Lemons ct modules de 
lift . sacrie (Paris, 1837) : — La Vie tie Jisus Christ it des 
Apotres (Paris, 1836; 2d edit. 184G): — Ilistoire etun 
a me (Paris, 1844): — Hist, de France (Paris, 1844 1847, 
10 vols.). He also published a new translation of the 
Bible, ns well as of Thomas a Kempis’s Imitation of 
Christ , and new editions of the works of Malebranche, 
of the spiritual works of Fenelon (1842), and of select 
works of Bossuet. — Brockhaus, Conversed. -Lex. s. v. ; 
Hoe for, Xouv. Iliogr. Gin. xix, 927. (A. J. S.) 

Genovesi, Antonio, an Italian metaphysician, 
was born at Castiglione Nov. 1, 1712. He studied the- 
ology at Salerno, and was ordained priest in 1730. lie 
lectured on philosophy at Naples with great reputa- 
tion for some time, but at length he was attacked by 
numerous enemies for publishing his metaphysics, in 
which he recommended the works of Galileo, Grotius, 
and Newton. lie was protected by the archbishop of 
Tarentum, and by the king of Naples, who made him 
professor of moral philosophy, and even of theology, 
in the Neapolitan university. In 1754 the chair of 
political economy was founded for him, and he contin- 
ued to teach this science until his death in 1709. lie 
was the author of Elementa Metaphysics (Naples, 1744, 
et sq., 5 vols. 8vo) : — Element, art. logico-cnticte (1745, 
8ve). In these hooks he followed D'Alembert and 
Helvetia*. He published also Elementa Theologian (Na- 
ples, 1751), which caused him to be interdicted by the 
Church from teaching theology. A historical eulogy 
of Genovesi was published by Galanti (Venice, 1774, 
8vo). — Iloefer, Xouv. Ring. Generate, xix, 932. 

Genoveva. See Genevieve. 

Geuovevans. Sec Genevieve, Orders of. 

Gentile (usually in the plur. goyim ; Sept, 

and X. T. 73m/). The Hebrew word ■'*3, a people , is 
derived from the obsolete verb IT'S, to flow together , as 
a crowd , and was originally used in a general sense of 
any nation, including the Jews themselves, both in 
the singular (Gen. xii, 2; Dent, xxxii, 28; Isa. i, 4), 
and in the plural (Gen. xxxv, 11). It is also used po- 
etically (like the Gr. tOvea, Horn. //. ii, 87 ; Od. xiv, 
73, and the Latin r/entes, Virg. Georg, iv, 430) of insects 
and animals (Joel i, 6; Zeph. ii, 14). 

But as the sense of n peculiar privilege dawned on 
the minds of the Jewish people, they began to confine 
the word 11*13 to other nations (Nch. v, 8), and al- 
though at first it did not connote any unpleasant asso- 
ciations, it began gradually to acquire a hostile sense, 
which never attached itself tp the other terms, 713-5, 
tongues (Isa. lxvi, 18), or the peoples. In pro- 

portion as the Jews began to pride themselves upon 


being “the first-born of God” (Exod. iv, 22), “the 
people of the covenant,” “a holy nation, and a king- 
dom of priests” (Exod. xix, 4), they learned to use 
the indifferent expression Goyim to imply that all oth- 
er nations were more or less barbarous (Rsa. ii, 1, 8; 
ix, 7; x,lG; evi, 47), profane (Jcr. xxxi, 10; Ezek. 
xxiii, 30), idolatrous, uncircumciscd, and unclean (Isa. 
lii, 1 ; Jer. ix, 20). Thus age after age the word be- 
came more invidious, and acquired a significance even 
more contemptuous than that of the Greek /3«p/3«oo£, 
which, being an onomatopoeia to imitate the strange 
sound of foreign tongues, is paralleled by the Hebrew 
33‘5, a stammerer , applied to foreigners in Rsa. 

| exiv, 1 ; Isa. xxviii, 11; xxxiii, 19. The word C*13 
! gains its last tinge of hatred as applied by Jews to all 
Christians. Other expressions, intended to point out 
the same distinction, arc used with a shade less of 
j scorn; such, for instance, as (see Buxtorf, 

i Lex. col. 723), o\ tZto, those without , which is Hebrais- 
1 ticallv used in the N. T. (1 Tim. iii, 9. Sec Otho, Lex. 
Rah. p. Ill ; Schottgen, Hew. Hehr. in 1 Cor. v, 12. In 
Mark iv, 11 it is applied to the incredulous Jews them- 
selves); and r’lZ5*3^, kingdoms (1 Chron. xxix, SO). 
The Jews applied the terms niSIX, leinds , and, ac- 
cording to some Rabbis, r«"T*2, region of the sea , 

to all countries except Palestine, just as the Greeks dis- 
tinguished between Ilellas and ij (3ctpi3aoog (2 Chron. 
i xiii, 9; xvii, 10; Ezra ix, 1; Luke xii, 30; Lightfoot, 
Centuria Chorcgr. i, ad init.). Although the Jews thus 
separated between themselves and other nations, they 
hesitated as little as the Romans did to include them- 
I selves in the Greek term fidpfiapoc (Josephus, .4 nt. xi, 
7, 1 ; comp. Justin Mar. Apol. i, 4G). 'See Barrarian. 

In the N. T. Wvij (although sometimes used in the 
! singular of the Jewish nation, Acts x, 22 ; Luke vii, 5) 
is generally opposed to Israel (rtg Xatij 0 toe), God’s 
people (Luke ii, 32). But the term most frequently 
thus rendered is (not tOnj, but) "EAAjjrtc, which is dis- 
tinguished from 'EWijrarrai (Acts vi, 1), and, although 
literally meaning Greeks (as in Acts xvi, 1, 3; xviii, 
17 ; Rom. i, 14), yet usually denotes any non-Jews, bc- 
I cause of the general prevalence of the Greek language 
i (Rom. i, 16, and passim ; 1 Cor. i, 22 ; Gal. iii, 28, etc.). 
Thus Timothy, who was of Lystra, is called "EAA/;r 
(Acts xvi, 1, 3), and a Syrophocnician woman 'EAA?;- 
vig (Mark vii, 26), and the Jews of the Dispersion, ?/ 
1 ctaoiropa rtov 'EAA ip’tov (John vii, 35). This usage is 
i even found in the -apocryphal writings, where tWgria- 
ftog is made a synonym to d\Xo(j>v\iofwg (2 Macc. iv, 
13), and rii iWijviKit iOi) are pagan morals (vi, 9); 
ami oven so early as the Sept, version of Isa. ix, 12, 
eWijveg is adopted as a rendering of n*r. w>2, Philis- 
tines. In the Greek fathers 'EAA lpuapog is used for 
the pagan, in contradistinction to the Christian world 
(Justin Mart. Resp. ad Quast. 42, etc.), and they call 
their Apologies Aoyoi 7rptjg ,, E\\i]i , ag, or Kara TSAAij- 
mov (Schleusner,\Lc.r. X. T. ii, 759). See Greek. 

It was pci liaps impossible for the Jews, absorbed as 
they were in the contemplation of their own especial 
mission, to rise into any true or profound conception 
[ of the common brotherhood of all nations. Hedged 
round by a multitude of special institutions, and taught 
to regard the non-observance of these customs as a 
condition of uncleanness, imbued, too, with a blind 
and intense national pride — they often seem to regard 
the heathen as only existing at all for the purpose of 
punishing the apostasy of Judaea (Dent, xxviii, 49; 1 
Kings viii, 33, etc.), or of undergoing vengeance for 
their enmity towards her (Isa. Lxiii, 6). The arrogant, 
unreasoning hatred towards other nations, generated 
by too exclusive a brooding upon this partial and nar- 
row conception,’ made the Jews the most unpopular 
nation of all antiquity (Tacitus, Ilist. v, 2; “gens te- 
j terrimaf ib. v, 8 ; Juvenal, Sat. xiv, 103 ; Quint. Just. 

] iii, 7, 21 ; Pliny, xiii, 9 ; Diod. Sic. Eel. 34 ; Dio Cass, 


GENTILIS 


*789 


GENTILLET 


ixviii, 32; Philostr. Apolog . v, 33; Ammian. Marcel, 
xxii, 5, 11 f ententes Judafi,” etc., “ contrary to all men,” 
1 Thess. ii, 15). See Jew. This disgust and scorn un- 
fortunately fell on the early Christians also, who were 
generally confused with the Jews until the time of Bar- 
Cochba (Tacit. Ann . xv, 44; Sueton. Claud. 25; Ner. 
1G). To what lengths the Jews were carried in recip- 
rocating this bitter feeling may be seen in the writings 
of the Rabbins; the Jews did not regard the Gentiles 
as brethren, might not journey with them, might not 
even save them when in peril of death (Maimonhles, 
Rozeach. iv, 12, etc.), and held that they would all be 
destroyed and burned at the Messiah’s coming (Otlio, 
Lex. Rabbin, s. v. Gentes, p. 231 ; Eisenmenger, Ent- 
deckt. Judent. ii, 200 sq.). There is the less excuse 
for this violent bigotry, because the Jews not only 
held that all nations sprang from one father (Gen. x), 
but had also received abundant prophecies that God 
v/as but leaving his heathen children in temporary 
darkness (Acts xiv, 1G), and intended hereafter, in his 
mercy, to bring them under the Messiah’s sceptre, and 
make them “one fold, under one shepherd” (Isa. lx, 2, 
and passim ; Mic. iv, X ; Zeph. iii, 9 ; Psa. xlv, 18 ; cx, 
1, etc.). The main part of the N.-T. history is occu- 
pied in narrating the gradual breaking down of this 
f.it<roToi\ov too t poayfiov (the strong barrier of imme- 
morial prejudice which separated Jew and Gentile, 
Eph. ii, 14), first in the minds of the apostles, and then 
of their converts. The final triumph over this obsta- 
cle was mainly due to the inspired ministry of him 
who gloried in the title of ctcdmcaXog rtov tGiaov (1 
Tim. ii, 7 ; see Conybeare and llowson, i, 219 sq.), who 
has also given, in a few pregnant sentences, the most 
powerful description of the blessings which God had 
granted to the Gentiles, the means of serving him 
which they possessed, and the shameless degeneracy 
which had ensued on their neglect of the natural law, 
written on their consciences (Rom. i, 18-32). See 
Heathen. 

In one or two places the words CV3 and iGvi] arc 
used as proper names. Thus we have “Tidal, king 
of nations,” i. e. of several conquered tribes (Gen. xiv, 
1, 2; Kalisch, ad loc.). In Josh, xii, 23 we find “the 
king of the nations of Gilgal,” where Goyim is possi- 
bly the name of some local tribe (j3am\tvc ^ raytyvXi- 
aQ , Interpr. Anon.). In Judg. iv, 2, “ llarosheth of 
the Gentiles” probabl} r received its name from the 
mixture of races subjugated by Jabin, and settled in 
the north of Palestine (Donaldson, Jashar , p. 2G3). 
See Hakosiieth. The same mixture of Canaan ites, 
Phoenicians, Syrians, Greeks, and Philistines, origin- 
ated the common expression “ Galilee of the Gentiles,” 
2*53, Sept. raXiXaia aXXotyuXioi' v. r. tCjv i'O- 
vtov, Isa. ix, 1; Matt, iv, 15 (Strabo, xvi. 7G0; Jose- 
phus, L[fe, 12; Euseb. Ononi. s. v.). See Galilee. 

On the various meanings of the phrase “Isles of 
the Gentiles” (D^H Gen. x, 5; Zeph. ii, 11; 
Ezek. xxvii, 15, etc.), see Gesenius, Thesaurus, p. 38, 
272, and Isle. On the Court of the Gentiles, see 
Temple, and Josephus, War, vi, 3. — Kitto, s. v. 

Gentilis, Giovanni Valentino, an Arian, was 
born at Cosenza, in Calabria, about 1520. Having be- 
come a convert to the Reformation, he was obliged to 
take refuge at Geneva, where several Italian families 
had already formed a congregation. Here he became 
dissatisfied with the orthodox doctrine of the Trinity, 
and, together with George Blandrata, John Paul Alci- 
ati, and Matthew Grimbaldi, formed a society to dis- 
cuss the sense of the passages of Scripture referring to 
the subject. “ The result of their discussions was that 
the terms co-essential, co-equal, and co-existent, were 
improperly applied to the Son and Spirit, and that they 
were subordinate in nature and dignity to the Father. 
But however privately their meetings were held, such 
information w r as conveyed to the Italian consistory as 
led them to suspect that the associates had departed 


' from the orthodox creed ; upon which they drew up 
i articles of faith, subscription to which was demanded 
from all the members of their communion. These ar- 
ticles consisted of Calvin’s confession of faith, which 
had been lately approved of by the ministers, syndics, 
councils, and general assembly of the people : to which 
a promise was annexed, never to do any thing directly 
or indirectly that should controvert the doctrine of the 
Trinity as therein defined.” Gentilis signed these ar- 
ticles, influenced, not improbably, by his recollection 
of the tragical fate of Servetus. In private, however, 
lie still avowed and maintained his change of senti- 
ment, which coming to the ears of the magistrates, 

! they committed him to prison. At length he “de- 
1 dared his readiness to abjure whatever should be pro- 
nounced erroneous. Upon this he was sentenced to 
make the amende honorable, to throw his writings into 
the fire, and to take an oath not to go out of Geneva 
without the leave of the magistrates.” lie satisfied 
himself “that lie was justifiable in breaking an oath 
which had been extorted from him by terror, and with- 
drew into the country of G ex, where he joined Grim- 
baldi ; thus proving himself to have, with much obsti- 
nacy, very little true religion.” He went to Lyons, 
thence to Savoy, and finally to Gex. As soon as he 
was known there he was sent to prison, but was lib- 
erated within a few days, when, upon the bailiff’s de- 
manding from him a confession of faith, that he might 
j cause it to be examined by some ministers, and sent 
to lierne, Gentilis printed the same, with a dedication 
to the bailiff. From Gex, Gentilis went again to Ly- 
ons, where he was imprisoned, but soon obtained his 
liberty, and went to Poland, where he joined Blandrata 
and Alciati, who were very successful in propagating 
1 their opinions. Tn 15GG, the king of Poland, at the in- 
j stigation of the Calvinists as well as the Catholics, 
published an edict, by which all strangers who taught 
I doctrines inconsistent with the orthodox notion con- 
cerning the Trinity were ordered to quit the kingdom. 
From Poland, Gentilis withdrew into Moravia, whence 
he went to Vienna, and then resolved to return to Sa- 
voy, where he hoped still to find his friend Grimbaldi, 
and flattered himself that he might be suffered to re- 
main unmolested, as Calvin was dead. The bailiff of 
i Gex seized him and delivered him to the magistrates 
1 of Berne. He was convicted of obstinately impugn- 
ing the mystery of the Trinity, and was condemned to 
death. This sentence was carried into execution Sep- 
| tern her, 15G6. “ Gentilis triumphed over his enemies 

I by the fortitude with which he met his death, rejoic- 
ing, as he said, that he suffered for asserting and vin- 
dicating the supremacy and glory of the Father. II is 
hypothesis concerning the person of Christ was that 
of the Arian school. His history affords a striking 
evidence that the first reformers, when they renounced 
the communion of Rome, entertained but imperfect and 
contracted notions of Christian freedom and tolera- 
tion.” Benedict Aretins wrote an account of his trial 
and punishment (15G7, Lat. 4to). See also Beza, Yal. 
Gentilis, Teterrimi IReretici , etc. (Geneva, 15G7) ; Hook, 
Eccl. Biog. v, 293 ; Moslieim,C%. Hist. cent, xvi, sec. iii, 
pt. ii, chap, iv, § G ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xix, 948 ; 
Bayle, Dictionary, s. v. ; Bock, Ilist. Antitrin. i, 3G9 ; ii, 
427 ; Trcchsel, Antitrinitarier, ii, 31G ; Christian Exam- 
iner, 1, 20G ; Gieseler, Church Ilist . (ed. Smith), iv, 3G0. 

Gentillet, Innocent, a learned Protestant juris* 
consult of the IGth century. The time of his birth is 
unknown, though it is settled that lie was born at Vi- 
enne, in Dauphiny, and that he fled his country on ac- 
count of the ediets against Protestants in 1585. He is 
supposed to have been afterwards syndic of the repub- 
lic of Geneva. Besides other works, he wrote two of 
great value: (1.) Apologia pro Christianis Gallis relig. 
evangelical sen reformat a? (2d ed. Genev. 1588, 8vo ; also 
in French, same year) : — (2.) Le Bureau da Conrile de 
Trente; and in Latin, Examen Concilii Tridentini (Ge- 
neva, 15G8, 8vo). The full title is.. “ The trial of the 


GENTILLY 


'TOO 


GEOGRAPHY 


Council of Trent, wherein the said council is proved in I 
many points to be contrary to the ancient councils and 
canons, and to the king’s authority.” He died about 
1505. See Bayle, Diet. s. v. ; Haag, La France Pro?- i 
cstantc , vol. iv ; Hoefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, xix, 040. ' 

Gentilly, Council of ( Concilium Gentiliacensc ), 
held on Christmas day, A.D. 7G7. Six legates from 
Iiome, six ambassadors from the emperor Constantine 
Copronymus, several Greek bishops, and most of the 
bishops of Gaul and Germany, were present, together 
with king Pepin and many of his nobles. The ques- 
tion of the procession of the Holy Spirit was discussed, 
with regard to the addition made bv the Latins of the 
words kk lilioque” to the creed. There was also a d is- j 
eussion concerning the use of images. — Lamlon, Man- 
ual of Councils, s. v. ; Gicseler,CA. History , per. iii, § 1‘2. 

Gentoos. See Hindoos; India. 

Gen'ubatli [many Getm'bcitJi] (Ileb. Genubath' , 
TZZ?, Sept. r«F7//3«3), the son of Iladad, of the Edom- 
itish royal family, by the sister of Tahpenes, the queen 
of Egypt (in the time of David), reared in Pharaoh’s 
household (1 Kings xi, 20). to save him from the ex- 
termination by Joab (ver. 1G). lie was born (B.C. cir. 
103G) in the palace of Pharaoh, and weaned by the 
queen herself ; after which he became a member of the 
royal establishment, on the same footing as one of the 
sons of rharaoh. Some connect the name with the 
lleb. root to steal, and suppose an allusion either 
to his being the product of a furtive amour (Clericus), ; 
or to his existence being owing to bis father’s having , 
stolen away from the destructive fury of the Israelites j 
(Thenins); others, with greater probability, find in it 
an allusion to the Egyptian deity Kneph or Cnuphis. i 
See Hadad. 

Genuflectentes, yojwXiVorrfc, l-neelers , a class 
of penitents in the ancient Church; also called pro- 
strati, prostraters, because they were allowed to stay 
after the hearers were dismissed, and to join in eer- 
tain prayers particularly offered for them while they j 
knelt. Forms of prayer, prepared for such occasions, 1 
are to be found in the Apostolical Constitutions (lib. viii, 
cap. viii); also in Chrysostom ( Horn . 18 in 2 Cor.). 
The station of this class was within the nave or body 
of the church, near the ambo or reading-desk, where 
they received the bishop’s benediction, and imposition 
of hands. Some canons call these the penitents, by way 
of emphasis, without any other distinction, because 
they were most noted, and the greatest number of pen- 
itential acts were performed by them whilst they weie 
in this station. — Bingham, Oriy. Act/, bk. x, eh. ii, § 4, 
and xviii, ch. i, § 5. 

Genuflection, the act of bending the knee, or 
kneeling in prayer. Baronins says that the early 1 
Christians carried the practice of genuflection so far, 
that some of them had worn cavities in the floor where 
they prayed; and Jerome relates of St. James, that he 
had, by this practice, contracted a hardness on his 
knees equal to that of camels. The Church of Eng- 
land gives many directions in her rubrics as to the 
proper time of kneeling in prayer; but warns all wor- 
shippers, in the last rubric on the communion service, 
that by the posture prescribed for receiving the sym- 
bols, “no adoration is intended, or ought to be done, 
either unto the sacramental bread and wine there bod- 
ily received, or unto any corporal presence of Christ’s 
natural flesh and blood.” — Farrar, Keel. Dictionary, s. 
v. ; Buck, Theof. Dictionary , s. v. See Kneeling. 

Genus Idiomaticum. See Ciikistology, vol. 
ii, p. 281. 

Geoffrey (Geoff rot) of Auxerre, a French theo- 
logian, was born at Auxerre about 1120. lie studied 
under Abelard, and was at the Uni versity of Paris 
when St. Bernard came there to preach on the conver- 
sion of the clergy ( de conversione ad c lencos'). Deeply | 
impressed by Bernard’s preaching, ho. entered the con- 1 


vent of Clairvaux in 1140. For thirteen years he was 
principal secretary and travelling companion of St. 
Bernard. In 11G1 or 11G2 ho was elected abbot of 
Clairvaux, but the monks, dissatisfied with the sever" 
ity of his rule, petitioned Alexander III to depose him. 
Geoffrey voluntarily resigned, and withdrew to Ci- 
teaux. In 11G7 the abbot of Citeaux sent him to Italy 
to attempt a reconciliation between the pope and em- 
peror Frederick, but he did not succeed. The follow ing 
year he endeavored to make peace between the arch- 
bishop of Canterbury and Henry II of England, who 
invited him to remain in his kingdom. Geoffrey be- 
came successively abbot of Fosse-Ncine in 1170, and 
of Haute-Combe in 117G. AVe have no information 
concerning him after 118$, though Gudin claims that 
he lived until 1215. He compiled the letters of St. 
Bernard, and his own writings have been inserted in 
the works of that saint. A number of his letters, to- 
gether with a life of St. Bernard, and a tract against 
Gilbert de la For rue, will be found in Bernardi Opera, 
vol. ii. He is considered as the author of the Compen- 
dium Gavfredi de corpore Christi et sacramento Kucha - 
ristice, a manuscript tract against Abelard. See Gu- 
din, De Scriptor. eccles. vol. ii ; Hist, litter, de, la France, 
xiv, 430; Hoefer, Xouv. Eioy. Gin* rale, xx. 27 sq. 

Geoffrey of Monmouth (Gualfruhts, Galfidvs, 
Ganf ruins) was first archdeacon of Monmouth, after- 
wards (1152) bishop of St. Asaph. He died in 1154. 
lie wrote a Chronieon sive Ilistona Britamim in xii 
1 ooks, supposed by some to be a translation from the 
Welsh. It is one of the sources for the legendary his- 
tory of Britain. The first edition is that of Paris, 15G8, 
4to; the latest, that of J. A. Giles (London, 1814, 8vo). 
Translated, The British History , from the Latin by A. 
Thompson, Esq. (Loud. 171s, 8vo; new ed. revised by 
J. A. Giles, Loud. 1842, 8vo) ; also in Bohn's Antiqua- 
rian Library. See Wright, Bioy. Britann. Lit., Anglo- 
Norman Period, p. 143-149. 

Geogony. See Cosmogony. 

Geography, considered as a systematic descrip- 
tion of the earth, took its rise at a much later period 
than other sciences, probably because it is of less es- 
sential necessity to man; yet the elements of the 
knowledge out of which scientific geography is con- 
structed must have existed as soon as men turned 
their attention to the earth on which they dwelt, and 
found it necessary to journey from one part of its sur- 
face to another. See Cosmology. 

1. In the absence of positive statements, we have to 
gather the views of the Hebrews as to the form of the 
eaith from scattered allusions, and these for the most 
part in the poetical books, where it is difficult to decide 
liow far the language is to be regarded as literal, and 
how far as metaphorical. There seem to be traces of 
the same ideas as prevailed among the Greeks, that 
the world was a disk (Isa. xl, 22; the word “H, cir- 
cle, is applied exclusively to the circle of the hoiizon, 
whether bounded by earth, sea, or sky), bordered by 
the ocean (Dent. xxx,13; Job xxvi, 10; Psa. cxxxix, 
9; l’rov. viii, 27), with Jerusalem as its centre (Ezck. 
v, 5), which was thus regarded, like Delphi, as the 
navel ; Judg. ix, 37 ; Ezek. xxxviii, 12), or, ac- 

cording to another view (Gesenius, Thesauv. s. v.), the 
highest point of the world. The passages quoted in 
support of this view admit of a different interpreta- 
tion ; Jerusalem might be regarded as the centre of 
the world, not only as the seat of religions light and 
truth, but to a certain extent in a geographical sense; 
for Palestine was situated between the important em- 
pires of Assyria and Egypt ; and not only between 
them, but above them, its elevation above the plains 
on either side .contributing to the appearance of its 
centrality. A different view has been gathered from 
the expression “ four corners” (r"S:r, generally ap- 
plied to the skirts of a garment), as though implying 


GEOGRAPHY 


791 


GEOGRAPHY 



The World as known to the Romans. 


the quadrangular shape of a garment stretched out, 
according to Eratosthenes’s comparison ; but the term 
“corners” may be applied in a metaphorical sense for 
the extreme ends of the world (Job xxxvii, 3 ; xxxviii, 
13; Isa. xi, 12; xxiv, 1G; Ezck. vii, 2). Finally, it 
is suggested by lbilir ( Symbolik , i, 170) that these two 
views may have been held together, the former as the 
actual and the latter as the symbolical representation 
of the earth’s form. See Earth. 

In the account of creation mention is made of a spot 
called Eden, out of which a river, after watering Par- 
adise, ran, and “from thence it was parted, and be- 
came into four heads” (fountains), which sent forth as 
many rivers — Pison, Gihon, Hiddekel, Phrat or Eu- 
phrates. See Eden, Josephus, on this point, says 
(Ant. i, 2), “The garden was watered by one river 


which ran round about the whole earth and was parted 
into four parts.” The idea here presented is that of a 
vast circular plain (the earth), with water, a river, cr 
the sea (w/efopoc in Homer, 11. xxi, 19G) encircling it, 
from which encircling body of water ran the said four 
rivers. Such, whether derived from the Hebrew Scrip- 
tures or not, was the earliest conception entertained 
of the earth. That some such idea was entertained 
among the Hebrews, even at a later period, appears 
from the words found in Psa. xxiv, 2: “He hath 
founded it (the earth) upon the seas, and established it 
upon the floods” (see also Prov. viii, 27); though Job 
xxvi, 7, “ He stretchcth out the north over the empty 
place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing” (compare 
Job xxxviii, 4, G), would seem to intimate that the 
writer of that book entertained superior notions on the 


GEOGRAPHY 


792 


GEOGRAPHY 


point. That, however, the general idea was that the 
earth formed an immense disk (“the circle of the 
earth”), above which were the substantial and firmly- 
fixed heavens, the abode of God, while the earth be- 
neath was his footstool, appears from the general 
phraseology employed in the sacred books, and may 
be found specially exhibited or implied in the follow- 
ing passages: Isa. xl, 21 sq. ; Job xxxvii, 18; Psa. 
iii, 25. See Astronomy. 

As to the size of the earth, the Hebrews had but a 
very indefinite notion ; in many passages the “ earth,” 
or “whole earth,” is used as co-extensive with the 
Babylonian (Isa. xiii, 5; xiv, 7 sq. ; xxiv, 17) or As- 
syrian empires (Isa. x, 11; xiv, 26; xxxvii, 18), ju*t 
as at a later period the Homan empire was styled ot'bis 
terrarum; the “ends of the earth” (r^J?) in the lan- 
guage of prophecy was applied to the nations on the 
border of these kingdoms, especially the Modes (Isa. v, 
2G; xiii, 5) in the east, and the islands and coasts of the 
Mediterranean in the west (Isa. xli, 5, 0) ; but occa- 
sionally the boundary was contracted in this latter di- 
rection to the eastern shores of the Mediterranean (Isa. 
xxiv, 1G; Zech. ix, 10; Psa. Ixxii, 8). "Without un- 
duly pressing the language of prophecy, it may be said 
that the views of the Hebrews as to the size of the 
earth extended but little beyond the nations with 
which they came in contact; its solidity is frequently 
noticed, its dimensions but seldom (Job xxxviii, 18 ; 
Isa. xiii, 5). The world in this sense was sometimes 
described by the poetical term tebel (53 T), correspond- 
ing to tiie Greek oiicoi 'fiivij (Isa. xiv, 21). 

The earth was divided into four quarters or regions 
corresponding to the four points of the compass ; these 
were described in various ways, sometimes according 
to their positions relatively to a person facing the east, 
before (-'ll?), behind (ITiX), the right hand (’,**2^), 
and the left hand (5X33*), representing respectively 
E., W., S., and X. (Job xxiii, 8, 9); sometimes rela- 


tively to the sun’s course, the rising ( nip), the setting 
(X’33, Psa. 1,1), the brilliant quarter (Z1*"l, Ezek. xl, 

21) , and the dark quarter (*p2*J, Exod. xxvi, 20 ; comp, 
the Greek £o^of, Horn. Jl. xii, 210); sometimes as the 
seat of the four winds (Ezek. xxxvii, 0) ; and some- 
times according to the physical characteristics, the sea 
(-^) for the W. (Gen. xxviii, 11), the lunched (3:3) for 
the S. (Exod. xxvii,9), and the mountains (Z"?tl) for 
the X. (Isa. xiii, 1). The north appears to have been 
regarded as the highest part of the earth’s surface, in 
consequence, perhaps, of the mountain ranges which 
existed there, and thus the heaviest part of the earth 
(Job xxvi, 7). The north was also the quarter in 
which the Hebrew El- Dorado lay, the land of gold 
mines (Job xxxvii, 22, margin ; comp. Herod, iii, 11G). 

These terms are very indistinctly used when applied 
to special localities; for we find the north assigned as 
the quarter of Assyria (Jer. iii, 18), Babylonia (Jcr. vi, 

22) , and the Euphrates (Jer. xlvi, 10), and more fre- 
quently Media (.Jer. 1,3; comp, li, 11), while the south 
is especially represented by Egypt (Isa. xxx, G ; Dan. 
xi, 5). The Hebrews were not more exact in the use 
of terms descriptive of the physical features of the 
earth's surface ; for instance, the same term (3^) is ap- 
plied to the sea (Mediterranean), to the lakes of Pales- 
tine, and to great rivers, such as the Xile (Isa. xviii, 
2), and perhaps the Euphrates (Isa. xxvii, 1) ; moun- 
tain (“«!) signifies not only high ranges, such as Sinai 
or Ararat, but an elevated region (Josh, xi, 16): river 
(" , Pf2) is occasionally applied to the sea (Jonah ii,3; 
Psa. xxiv, 2) and to canals fed by rivers (Isa. xliv, 
27). Their vocabulary, however, was ample for de- 
scribing the special features of the lands with which 
they were acquainted, the terms for the different sorts 
of valleys, mountains, rivers, and springs being very 
numerous and expressive. We cannot fail to be 



The Countries kuown to the Patriarchs. 


793 


GEOGRAPHY 


GEOGRAPHY 

struck with the adequate ideas of descriptive geogra- 
phy expressed in the directions given to the spies 
(Numb, xiii, 17-20) and in the closing address of Moses 
(Deut. viii, 7-9); nor less, with the extreme accuracy 
and the variety of almost technical terms with which 
the boundaries of the tribes are described in the book 
of Joshua, warranting the assumption that the Hebrews 
had acquired the art of surveying from the Egyptians 
(Jahn, i, 6, § 104). See Topographical Terms. 

2. We proceed to give a brief sketch of the geograph- 
ical knowledge of the Hebrews down to the period 
when their distinctive names and ideas were super- 
seded by those of classical writers. Like most other 
sciences, geography owes its elementary cultivation as 
a science to the Hellenic race, who, from the mythic 
period of their history down to the destruction of the 
Western empire (A.D.476), continued to prosecute the 
study with more or less system, and to more or less 
definite results ; yet it must be added that it is only in 
a qualified sense that the ancients may be said to have 
known or advanced scientific geography. 

The highlands of Armenia would appear to have 
been the first known to the human family. Descend- 
ing from these, some may have gone eastward, others 
westward. The latter alone are spoken of in Scripture. 
Coming south and west, the progenitors of the world 
first became acquainted with the countries lying be- 
tween the Euphrates and the Tigris, roughly termed 
Mesopotamia, whence they advanced still more south 
and west into Aram or Syria, Arabia, Canaan, and 
Egypt. These are the chief countries with which the 
ancient Hebrews seem to have possessed an acquaint- 
ance; yet if the national geographical table found in 
Gen. x is to be referred to the early period which its 
position in the Bible gives it, it would appear that the 
geographical knowledge of the Hebrews was, even be- 
fore the flood, far more extensive, embracing even 
“ the isles of the Gentiles.” See Ethnology. Oth- 
er parts of Scripture by no means warrant us in ascrib- 
ing to the Hebrews, before the Babylonian captivity, a 
wider range of knowledge than wc have indicated 
above. This national calamity had the effect of en- 
larging the circle of their knowledge of the earth, or 
at least of making their knowledge of Assyria, Media, 
and Babylonia more minute and definite. It was to 
their neighbors, the Phoenicians, that the Israelites 
owed most of’ their geographical knowledge. This 
commercial people must have early acquired a super- 
ficial acquaintance with remote regions, while engaged 
in their maritime commercial expeditions. The knowl- 
edge they brought back to Palestine would spread be- 
yond their own borders and reach the Hebrew?, though 
t hey may not have been given to inquiry and study 
on subjects of the kind ; nor is it safe to attempt to de- 
fine at how early a period some rough notions of the 
isles of the Gentiles may, by means of the Phoenician 
navigators, have been spread about in the East. Ac- 
cording to Clemens Alexandrinus {Strom, vi, 4, 36), 
the Egyptians had in circulation writings on geogra- 
phy. Their king Sesostris may have had maps ( Sckol . 
ad A poll. Rkod. iv, 292 ; Coguet, Grip, des Loix, ii, 227), 
though probably the first attempt to form a map (that 
is, a written catalogue of places, with something like 
their relative positions and distances roughly guessed) 
is to he ascribed to the men whom Joshua (Josh, xviii) 
sent with orders to “go through the land and describe 
it ;” and the men “ went and passed through the land,” 
and described it by cities into seven parts in a book. 

At a later period, it is unquestionable that the He- 
brews possessed a knowledge of the north-west, and a 
wider knowledge of the east, and even of the north of 
Asia (Ezek. xxvii; Isa. li, 27). From the period of 
the Maccabees the Jews entered into relations of a 
mercantile and political character, which extended 
their knowledge of the earth, and made them better 
acquainted with Asia Minor, Greece, and Italy. In 
the time embraced by the New -Testament history 


they must have been widely acquainted with the then 
known world, since colonies and individuals of their 
nation were spread over nearly the entire surface cov- 
ered by ancient civilization, and identified with the 
Roman empire. The occasional, if not periodical, re- 
turn of the Jews thus scattered abroad, or at least the 
relations which they would sustain with their mother 
country, must have greatly widened, and made less in- 
accurate, the knowledge entertained in Palestine of 
other parts of the world. Accordingly we read (Acts 
ii, 5 sq.) that, at the effusion of the Hol} r Spirit on the 
day of Pentecost, “there were dwelling at Jerusalem 
Jews out of every nation under heaven.” 

3. The Hebrews do not seem to have devoted any 
attention to geography as a science, though they were 
widely scattered at the commencement of our a*ra, 
and occupied a distinguished place in literature. The 
Greeks probably led the way in systematic geography. 
The first map is said to have been constructed by 
Anaximander, about B.C. COO. Nearly a century later, 
Hecatceus of Miletus wrote a geographical work enti- 
tled II fpiucor ytjc ((’kerf, Geographic des Jlecat. und 
Damastes). These were followed by Strabo and Ptol- 
emy. The Phoenicians and Egyptians were likewise 
distinguished as geographers. Ptolemy acknowledges 
that his great work was based on a treatise written 
by Marinus of Tyre (Ileeren, Commentatio de Fontilus 
Geog raphicontm Ptolemai , etc.). Pliny, the only Ro- 
man writer deserving of special mention in this place, 
was a mere compiler. As a geography his book is of 
little value (see Ukert, Geographic d.Griech.u.Rijmer ; 
Mannert, Gergntphie, etc.). Sacred geography was not 
reduced to a system until a comparatively recent time. 
The Onnmasticon of Eusebius and Jerome is an alpha- 
betic list of places, with brief descriptions. The 1 ract 
of Broeardus, written in the 18th century, is little more 
than an itinerary. To Samuel Boehart, a French Prot- 
estant minister (born 1599), belongs the honor of 
writing the first systematic work on Biblical geogra- 
phy. His Geographia Sacra is a storehouse of learn- 
ing from which all subsequent writers have drawn 
freely. Wells wrote his Historical Geography of the 
O. and X. T. in the beginning of last century. Ro- 
land’s Palastina , published in 1714, remains to this day 
the standard classic work. Dr. Robinson's Rest unites 
open a new era in Biblical geography. It. however, 
is neither complete nor systematic ; it is only a book 
of travels, with most important historical and geo- 
graphical illustrations. Ritter’s Palastina und Syrian 
aims at system and completeness, but it is too diffuse. 
It gives a resume of everything that has been written 
on Bible lands. A systematic and thorough treatise 
on Biblical geography is still a great desideratum in 
literature. See Archaeology, Biblical. 

Among the profane writers, Herodotus mentions 
Palestine, and probably Jerusalem, which he names 
Cadvtis (Ilerod. i, 105; ii, 106, 157, 159; iii, 5, 62, 64, 
91; iv, 89). Strabo (in the time of Augustus) treats 
of Palestine in the second chapter of his sixteentli book 
on Geography, mingling together much truth and much 
error. Ptolemy, who died A.D. 161, treats of Palestine 
and the neighboring countries in chaps, xv-xvii of his 
fifth hook (see Roland, p. 456 sq.). Dion Cassius re- 
lates the conquest of Palestine by Pompey (xxvii, 15- 
17), the siege of Jerusalem by Titus (lxi, 4-7), the res- 
toration of the Temple by Hadrian, and the insurrec- 
tion of the Jews under the same emperor (lix, 12-14). 
Of the Roman w riters, Pliny, in his Natural Hist, (v, 
13-19), treats of Syria, including Palestine, and sup- 
plies much useful information. Tacitus’s History , 
from the first to the thirteenth chapter of the fifth hock, 
also relates to our subject. He hated both Jews and 
Christians {Annal. xv, 44), and in consequence gave 
false colorings to much of what he said relating to 
them ( Hist . v, 3,4 ; ii, 79 ; Annal. ii, 42 ; xii, 23). Some 
information may also be found in Justin (xxxvi, 2), in 
Suetonius {Augustus, 93; Claudius, 25, 28 ; Vespasian, 


GEOGRAPHY 


794 


GEOLOGY 


4, 5 ; Titus, 4, 5), in Pompom us Mela (i, 2), and tn Am- 
mianus Marccllinus (xiv, 8; xxiii,l). 

Among the fathers of the Church much serviceable 
knowledge on the subject of Biblical geography may 
be found in the expository writings of Theodoret and 
Jerome. The most important work, however, is the 
Onomasticon terbium et loco mm sacra Scriptime (ed. J. 
Bonfrerii, 1707). Living as they did for a long time 
in Palestine, the writings both of Eusebius and Jerome 
possess peculiar value, which, however, grows less as 
the times of which they speak recede from their own. 

Some Arabian writers arc not without value. AVe 
have Edrisi, Geographia Nubimsis (Paris, 1G19); also 
Abulfedaj Tabula Syria, and his Annates Muslemici. 
Schultcns, in his Index Geoyraphicus in Vitam Scdadini 
(Lugduni Batav. 1732), has collected many observa- 
tions of Arabian authors on Palestine. See also Ro- 
senmuller, Hand ). Bibl. A Iterth. i, 34 ; Bitter, Erdkunde , 
ii, 47."!. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. Earth. 

Modern works of travel in Bible countries have con- 
tributed much original information on this subject. 
They arc too numerous, especially those on Palestine 
(q. v.), to be enumerated here in detail. Some of them 
may be seen in Darling’s Cyclopaedia, col. 1810 sq. ; 
and most of them are referred to under each country 
in this work. The following lists embrace the most 
important in the several classes, including the above : 

a. Ancient and Medieval Writers who have incident- 
ally furnished Inform ition on Sacred Geography. — The 
chief text-book is of course the Bible. Next to this 
are (1.) Jewish — The Apocrypha ; Josephus, Opera (ed. 
Hudson, 1720, 2 vols. fol.). Traill’s translation of the 
War (London, 1851, 2 vols.) contains important notes 
and illustrations. (2.) Heathen — Herodotus, especially 
Bawlinson’s translation (Loud, and N. York, 1858-GO, 
4 vols.) ; Strabo, Geographia (ed. Casaubon, Geneva, 
1587) ; Pliny, Jlistoria Xaturalis (ed. Sillig, Geneva, 
1831-36, 5 vols.). Dio Cassius (Hamburg, 1752) gives 
some short notes on Palestine. The few remarks in 
Tacitus and Livy are of little value. (3.) Christian 
— Eusebius, Socrates, Sozomcn, and Theodoret, in His- 
toric Eccles. Scriptor . Grad (1695, 3 vols. fol.); Je- 
rome, Opera (ed. Mignc, 9 vols. 8vo) ; Theodoret, Opera 
(ed. Migne, 5 vols.). In the exegetical writings of 
Jerome and Theodoret are some useful notes; they 
both resided in Palestine. William of Tyre, Ilistoria 
Belli Sacri; James dc AT try, Ilistoria Orient alis, etc. 
(these two works, with several others, are contained in 
Hunger's Gesta Dei per Francos, fol. 1611); Chronicles 
of the Crusades (ed. Bohn, 1848), containing Richard of 
Devizes, Geoffrey de Vinsauf, and De Joinville. 

b. Geographical Works and Itineraries. — Ptolemy, 
Geographia (fol. 1535); Tabula Pentingeriana, a rude 
chart of the Roman empire, made in the 3d century. 
Reland gives the part including Palestine. Eusebius 
and Jerome, 0 nomast icon Erbium et. Locorum S. Scrip- 
tune (ed. Clerico, fol. 1707; last edit, by Larsow and 
Parthev, Ber. 1862); Vetera Romanorum Itinerant i (ed. 
AVesselingio, 1735), containing the important itinera- 
ries of the Bordeaux pilgrim, and of Antonine, with 
Syneklmus of Hierocles ; Edrisi, Geographia Univer- 
salis (in Koscnnmller’s Anal eta Arabicu, 1828) ; To- 
pographical Index in Bohadini Vila et Pcs Gcstw Safa- 
dini (ed. Scliultens. folio, 1732); Brocardus, Locorum 
Term San. Ikscriptio (ed. Clcrico, appended to the 
Ownnasticon, folio, 1707); Almlfeda, Tabula Syriaca 
(1766); Bochart, Opera (ed. Lcusden et ATllcmandy, 
1712, 3 vols. fol.) ; Sanson , Geographia Sacra (ed. Cleri- 
eo, folio, 1701); Caroli A. S. Paulo, Geographia Sacra 
(ed. llolsten, fol. 1701); Cellarius, Nolitia Orbis Anti- 
qni (1701-5, 2 vols. 4to); A Veils, Historical Geography 
(\f the O. and A. T. (1819, 2 vols.); Roland, Pahvstina 
ex monumentis veteribus lllustmta (1714, 2 vols. 4to); 
Busching, Erdbeschreibung, Paliistina, Ara’bien, ete. 
(178o); Kosenmuller, Bib. -Geogr. of Central Asia (by 
Morren, 1836, 2 vols.); Rauiner, Paldstina (1850); For- 
ster, Historical Geography of Arabia (1844, 2 vols.); 


Rohr, II istorico- Geograph. Account of Palestine (1843); 
Ritter, Die Sinai- Halbinsel, Paldstina und Syrien (1848- 
55, 4 vols. in six parts; an English transl. has appear- 
ed, Lond. 1868, 2 vols.) ; Kitto, Physical Geography of 
Palestine (1841,2 vols.); Conybeare and Howson, life 
of St. Paul (1855, 2 vols. 4to) ; Smith, Voyage and Sh>p- 
wreck of St. Paul (2d ed. 1856) ; Porter, Hand-book fir 
Syria and Palestine (1858, 2 vols.) ; Van de Velde, Me- 
moir of Map of Palestine (1858) ; Robinson, Phys. Geog. 
of the Holy Land (1865). 

c. Books of Travel. — AVright’s Early Travels in Pal- 
estine (1848, containing, among otheis, Arculf, Saewulf, 
Benjamin of Tudela, Maundeville, and Maundrell); 

, Cotovicus, Itinerarinm llierosolymitanum (1619) ; Qtia- 
: resmius, Ilistoria Theoloyica et Morales Terra ? Sanctee 
Elucidatio (1639, 2 vols. fol.); D’Arvicux, Travels in 
Arabia the Desert (1732); Shaw, Travels in Barbary 
1 and the Levant (1808, 2 vols.) ; l’ococke, Description of 
j the East (1743^15, 2 vols. fol.); Ilasselquist, Travels in 
the Levant (1766); Niebuhr, Travels throuyh Ai'abia 
(1792, 2 vols.); Volnev, Voyage en Syrie , etc. (Paris, 
1807, 2 vols.) ; Ali Bey, Travels in Morocco, Egypt, Syr- 
ia, etc. (1816, 2 vols. 4to) ; Seetzen, Pc isen dui'ch Syr- 
ien, Paldstina . etc. (1854-55, 3 vols.) ; Burckhardt, Trav- 
els in Syria (1822, 4to); Travels in A robin (1829, 4 to) ; 
Xotes on the Bedouin and Wahabys (1830, 4t.o); Travels 
in Xubia (1822, 4to); Buckingham, Travels in Palestine 
(1822, 4to) ; 'Travels among the Arab Tribes (1825, 4to); 
Irby and Mangles, Trends in Egypt and Xubia, Syria , 

! and Asia Minor, etc. (1822); Laborde, Journey through 
Arabia Petr ee a to Sinai and Petra (1838); Lord Lind- 
say, Letters on Egypt, Eelam , and the Holy Land (1838, 

I 2 vols.) ; Addison, Damascus and Palmyra (1838, 2 
vols.); Bowrimr, Report on Statistics of Syria (1840); 
Williams, The Holy City (1849,2 vols.); Bartlett, Forty 
j Days in the Desert (5th ed.); Walks about Jerusalem ; 
Jerusalem Revisited (1855); Footsteps of our Lord and 
his A postles (1852) ; Wilson, Lands of the Bible (1847, 2 
vols.); Tobler, Bethlehem (1849); Topographic von Je- 
rusalem and seinen Umyebungen (1853-54, 2 vols.); 
Lynch, Official Report of Expedition to Explore the 
! Dead Sea, etc. (1852, 4to) ; Narrative (f Expeelition , 
etc. (1849); De Sanlcy, Narrative of Journey round 
the Dead Sea, etc. (1853, 2 vols.); Van dc A'ekle, Nar- 
rative of Journey through Syria anel Palestine (1854, 2 
vols.); Lepsius, Discoveries in Egypt, the Peninsula of 
Sinai, etc. (1853) ; Robinson, Biblical Researches in Pal- 
estine in 1838-52, 2d edit. (1856, 3 vols.); Porter, Eire 
Years in Damascus, Researches in Palmyra , Lebanon, 
and Bash an (1855, 2 vols.) ; Layard, A 'inert h and its 
Remains (1849); Nineveh and Babylon (1853); Loftus, 
Chakl ea and Snsianu (1857) ; Stanley, Sinai ami Pales- 
tine (1856) ; Thomson, The Land and the Book (1858). 
In addition to the above, important articles on Biblical 
Geography and Topography may be seen in various 
numbers of the American Bibliotheca Sacra, the Jour- 
nal of Sacred Literature , and the Journal of the Royal 
j Geographical Society . bv Robinson, Thomson, Porter, 
Rawlinson, Layard, AVallin, Poole, Ainsworth, and oth- 
ers. 

d. The host small snaps are those in Robinson’s Re- 
| seai'ches (1st edit.) and Porter’s Hand-book ; A T an de 

Velde’s large map of Palestine is the most complete 
I and accurate hitherto published (2d ed. 1865); Ilenkc’s 
Bibel-Atlas (Gotha, 1868) is valuable for the ancient 
divisions. — Kitto, s. v. 

Geology, the science that treats of the earth’s 
crust, its rocky strata, and the fossil remains found in 
them. Its interest to the Biblical student chiefly 
arises from its bearings upon the Mosaic account of 
t!ie creation. (See M‘Caul, Notes on Gen. i [London, 
1861]; Challis, Creation [Lond. 1861]; Pratt, Geneal- 
ogy of Creation [Lond. 1861] ; Christ. Remembrancer , 
Apr. 1861 ; Evang. Review, Oct. 1861 ; Koerl, Link. d. 
bib. Urge seh . . etc. [Basle, 1863] ; A on Schleidon, Das 
Alter ties Menscken Gesckfechts [Lpz. 1863]; Free-will 
Baptist Quarterly , Apr. 1864 ; Burton, Creation [Lond. 


GEOLOGY 


795 


GEOLOGY 


383G] ; Dawson, Arcliaia [Lond. 18G2] ; Gloag, Rela- 
tions of Geology to Theology [Edinb. 1858] ; Huxtable, 
Record if Creation Vindicated [London, 18G1] ; Ilutton, 
Chronol. of Creation [Lond. 18G0] ; Lime, Mosaic Rec- 
ord [Edinburgh, 1857] ; Anon. iS 'acred Geology [Lond. 
1847] ; Sunnier, Records of Creation [Gth ed., London, 
1850] ; "Wight., Mosaic Creation (Lond. 1847] ; Crofton, 
Geology and Genesis [London, 1854] ; Young, Scriptural 
Geology [London, 1840] ; De Serres, La Cosmogonie de 
Mo'ise [Par. 1840; in Germ., Till). 1841] ; Bosizo, I/exa- 
emeron und Geologic [Mainz, 18G5] ; Pori son , The Creative 
Week , art. v of Replies to “Essays and Re vines ” [Lond. 
and N. Y. 18G2] ; Lewis, God's Week of Work [Lond. 
18G5] ; Amer . Presb. Rev. Oct. 18G5 ; Poole, Genesis of 
Earth and Man [2d ed. Lond. 18GU] ; Wolf, Die Urge- 
schichte [Homb. 18G0] ; Baltzer, Schupf ungsgeschichte 
[Lpz. 18G7 sq.] ; Brit, and For . Evany. Rev. Apr. 18G7 ; 
Keusch, Bibel vnd Katur [Freib. 18GG] ; Lucas, Biblic. 
Ant. of Man [Lond. 18GG] ; Pitcairn, Ages of the Earth 
[Lond. 18G8] ; Worgan, The Divine Week [Manchester, 
1864] ; Wright, Geology and Antiquity of Earth [Lond. 
18G4] ; Anon. Phys. Theory of the Earth [Lond. 18G4] ; 
M‘Causland, The Adamite [Lond. 18G4] ; Gartner, Bi- 
bel und Geologic [Stuttg. 1SG8].) See (Jmeation. 

I. History f the Inquiry. — ('l’h is we condense from 
Pattison, The Earth and the Word , Lond. 1858, p. 123- 
139.) The prevalent opinion among the learned for 
upwards of two centuries after the revival of letters 
was that organic remains were mere mineral concre- 
tions. Hypotheses were invented purporting to ac- 
count for their production in methods quite worthy of 
the school of subtle philosophy whence they issued. 
This was maintained, not by obscure monks, but by 
really accomplished persons, the lights of natural his- 
tory in their day, such as Fallopio, Mercati, and Olivi 
in Italy, Plot and Lister in England, and Agricola in 
Germany. 

The excavations made for repairing the city of Ve- 
rona in 1517 brought to light a number of fossil re- 
mains, the appearance of which exercised the w r its of 
that time; and, among others, Fracastoro boldly ex- 
pounded their true meaning and relations. He de- 
clared that they had not originated in any such “plas- 
tic force” as was pretended, nor could they have been 
the results of the waters of the deluge. After having 
been thus rescued from the mineral kingdom, they 
were, however, universally attributed to the deluge. 
Fabio Colonna, in 1G00, and the whole of the Italian 
writers of this period, considered that all petrifactions 
were the remains of the Noachian deluge. 

In 1GG9, Stcno, a Dane, attached to the court of 
Tuscany, expounded the true theory of organic fos- 
sils ; he labored to harmonize his views with Scripture 
by selecting strata which appeared to him to he unfos- 
siliferous, and treating them as having been created 
before the existence of animals and plants. In 1G7G, 
Quirini contended that the diluvial waters could not 
have effected all the operations attributed to them, and 
maintained that the universality of the Mosaic deluge 
was not to be insisted on. In 1G88, Pobert Hook, in 
his posthumous treatise on earthquakes, assigns to or- 
ganic remains their true character, and supposes that 
some species may have been lost. In his diluvial the- 
ory he attempts to .crowd into the time between the 
creation and the deluge, and into the latter, all the 
visible phenomena of upheaval or dislocation. 

In 1G90, Dr. Thomas Burnet, in his Sacred Theory 
of the Earth, describes the earth at the beginning as a 
fluid mass composed of all kinds of materials. The 
heaviest descended to the bottom and formed a solid 
kernel, around which the waters, and afterwards the 
atmosphere, united ; hut between the water and at- 
mosphere there was formed an oily stratum, which re- 
ceived, little by little, all the earthy constituents with 
which the air was still charged. On this consolidated 
bed, marshy, thin, uniform, level, without mountains, 
Without valleys, without either seas or rivers, lived 


the antediluvian generations. At this epoch the 
marshy crust, dried up by the heat of the sun, split, 
and fell down in the great abyss of waters. From 
thence came the universal deluge, the disarrangement 
of the axis of the globe, and the changing of climates. 
The earth, thus drowned, had still some cavities into 
which the waters entered, little by little, and so re- 
turned to their subterranean reservoir. Thus the 
ocean is a part of the great abyss, the isles are the 
fragments,, the continents are the great residuary 
masses of the old world. To the confusion brought 
about by the breaking up of the waters are owing the 
mountains and other undulations that we now see. 
This is a specimen of a large class of writings which 
passed fur the effusions of learning and piety in the 
Augustan age of English literature. 

In 1GCG, Whiston, the great astronomer, published 
his new theory of the earth. He conceived of the 
earth as still having in its midst a solid and burning 
kernel, retaining the heat which it received from the 
sun when it was only the nucleus of the comet, and 
continually spreading it towards its circumference. 
This nucleus is itself surrounded by a great abyss, 
which is composed of two rings, of which the lower is 
a heav} r fluid, and the upper water ; it is this layer of 
water which constitutes the foundation of our earth. 
The deluge was occasioned by another comet striking 
the earth, and was the parent of all the disturbances 
now manifest in its crust. 

About 1G80 the great Leibnitz wrote of the earth as 
an extinct sun vitrified. According to him, its great- 
er portion was the subject of a violent fil e, at the time 
when Moses tells r.s that the light was separated from 
the darkness. The fusion of the globe produced a vit- 
rified crust; when the crust was cold, the humid parts, 
which had risen in vapor, fell again, and formed the 
ocean. The sea then deposited calcareous rocks. It 
at l.rst enveloped all the surface of the globe, and sur- 
mounted the higher parts which at present form the 
continents and isles. Thus the shells and other rub- 
bish of marine animals that one finds every w he: a 
prove that the sea has covered all the land ; and the 
great quantity of fixed salts, of sand, and other mat- 
ters, fused and calcined in the earth, testify to the uni- 
versal fire, and that it preceded the existence of the 
sea. 

In 1G95, Dr. Woodward, in his Discourse on the Nat- 
ural History of the Earth , most ably \ indicates the 
proper nature of organic remains, and disposes of the 
views of those who attribute them to casual inunda- 
tions, or to the wash of the sea when the land was first 
made ; but he is equally unsuccessful in the formation 
of a hypothesis with his predecessors. He holds that 
at the deluge the solid strata of the earth were dis- 
solved in the water; the remains of animals sank 
down and became imbedded according to their relative 
gravity. 

In Italy, Yallisneri, finding by his own careful ob- 
servations that the facts were not in accordance with 
the theories then in vogue, which were affirmed to he 
founded in the interpretation of Scripture, attacked 
the interpreters, and demonstrated that they were in 
error. He wisely contented himself with recording 
his own observations, and would not attempt the con- 
struction of a theory. 

In 1740, Moro, on the other hand, with much that 
is valuable in his onslaught upon other eosmogonists, 
fell into the error of becoming one of their number. 
His theory, however, is much more consistent, as well 
as reverential to the truth, than that of any of bis pre- 
decessors. 

In 1749, Buffon published, like his fellow philoso- 
phers, a theory of the earth, which is now found in 
the first part of his collected works. It is a free and 
easy way of world-making with the aid of a sun, a 
comet, volcanic and aqueous forces at pleasure. The 
Sorbonne required him to recant so much cf his work 


GEOLOGY 


796 


GEOLOGY 


as expressed the sentiment that the voters of the sea 
had produced the land, and then left it dry, and that 
the land was again, by wear and tear, gradually merg- 
ing into the sea. The recantation is published with 
his works. These gorgeous dreams cost their author 
forty years’ thought, and enjoyed uncommon reputa- 
tion. Even now their decision of tone and eloquence 
of statement command an interest. 

In 175G, Lehmann, the German mineralogist, con- 
fined the action of the flood to the production of a few 
only of the rocks, and assigned the unfossiliferous stra- 
ta to tho original creation, and the conglomerates to an 
intermediate revolution. 

In 1760, Michcll, who held for eight years the Wood- 
wardian professorship at Cambridge, showed himself 
the true predecessor of modern geology. Neglect- 
ing cosmogony altogether, and applying himself to 
the description of the strata as they appeared under 
liis own observation, he discovered the true sequence 
of the beds, and indicated a direction in which the ge- 
ologist might pursue his labors without infringing on 
theology. 

After Michell, the visions of the cosmogonists were 
again reproduced by various English writers. Sound 
geology, however, began to take precedence of world- 
making; the actual wonders of the subterranean world 
were preferred to the gay creations of the world-mak- 
ers. Hutton, William Smith, and a host of followers, 
comprising Cuvier and Brogniart, kept the republic of 
letters well employed in acquiring the grammar of the 
new science, which was created by physical researches 
into the strata and their contents. Henceforward cos- 
mogony assumes a second-rate position. 

Ue l.uc, in 1700, wrote the chronology of Moses, as 
only commencing with the creation of man ; and of 
the clays of creation as being not natural days, but in- 
definite periods. A long line of illustrious men, many 
of whom arc now living, diverted attention from the 
vain attempts of the early philosophers, and occupied 
themselves exclusively with descriptive geology. A 
classification of opinions — taking only the views of 
the leading men — will serve to show, in a general way, 
what has been said and done for the last fifty years in 
this department of knowledge. The following are the 
principal hypotheses ; 

1. That the days of creation are indefinite periods, 
during which all the phenomena of geology occurred ; 
that the deluge is now marked by the drift and gravel 
remains of the post-tertiarv age (Cuvier, Parkinson, 
Jameson, and others). 

2. That the first sentence of Genesis has no connec- 
tion with the subsequent verses. The phenomena of 
geology have place between the first and second verses. 
The chaos was universal, and ushered in the present 
creation (Chalmers, 1804. See also The Earth's An- 
tiquity in harmony uith the Mosaic Account of Creation, 
by dames Gray, M.A., 1840). 

3. That the earth that now is was the bed of the 
antc-diluvian sea. That all the phenomena now visi- 
ble resulted from operations in the interval between 
the creation and the end of the deluge. That, save 
this, the rocks were created as they now exist (Gran- 
ville I’enn, Young). 

4. That we cannot rely on an interpretation of the 
Hebrew records, and therefore we may set them aside 
when apparently at variance with geological facts 
(Babbage). 

5. That the records arc poetical representations, and 
not historical (Baden Powell). 

G. That t he first verse is a detached account of the 
original creation. The chaos, the six days’ creation, 
and the flood were local phenomena, and refer to what 
was transacted in the province occupied by man only 
(I)r. Pve Smith). 

7. That the “days were great natural periods. The 
Paleozoic system, pre-eminently that of plants, is the 
work of the third day; the secondary, pre-eminently 


the epoch of sea-monsters and creeping things, is the 
work of the fifth day; and the tertiary, the time of 
mammalian creatures, is the work of the sixth day” 
(Hugh Miller). 

8. That the Mosaic narrative is a revelation made 
in visions to the mind of the prophet; the days are 
therefore spoken of not in connection with the events, 
but the duration of the vision. The events occurred 
in extremely lengthened periods. The deluge was 
partial (Lime, Mosaic Record in harmony tvith Geoloy - 
leal, 1854 ; Poole, Gent sis of the Earth and Man , 1856). 

9. That all creation took place consecutively, ac- 
cording to the literal reading of Gen. i. All things, 
fossil and recent, form part of one whole system of 
life, and were created at once on the successive days 
of creation. That the fossil species have become grad- 
ually extinct, and their remains buried by disturb- 
ances occurring from the first (L’abbe SoignetjCos/wo^r- 
onie de la Bible , Paris, 1854). 

10. P. H. Gosse ( Omphalos , Lond. 1857). The theory 
of this writer is a reproduction of Granville Penn, with 
a dash of the old, arbitrary, anti-geologic notion of 
the creation of the rocks, with fossils complete as they 
arc. He affirms a principle which he calls the law of 
“ Prochronism,” in virtue of which the strata of the 
surface of the earth, with their fossil flora and fauna, 
may possibly belong to a “prochronic” (i. e. to an un- 
real and symbolical or typical) development of the 
mighty plan of the life history of the world. 

The preceding account, though it is only a very 
general view of the principal hypotheses on t his sub- 
ject, yet sufficiently shows how the minds of the 
framers have felt the power of the sacred writings. 
They have done homage, unconsciously in many in- 
stances, to divine truth, by acknowledging the neces- 
sity of accordance with it, however widely they have 
diverged from its plain teaching. It is a notable in- 
stance of the commanding power of the Scriptures 
that thus, through ages of ignorance and periods of 
enlightenment, they should still have been the pole- 
star, guiding all voyagers in their pathless track to- 
wards the unknown. 

11. We have reserved until last, as being, on the 
whole, the most comprehensive and satisfactory, the 
conclusions of Mr. Crofton, which have now for some 
years heen before the world (originally sketched in 
Kitto’s Journal, Jan. 1850), and have not been refuted 
by any philologer. He affirms that, apart from geo- 
logical considerations, and judging from analogy with 
Scripture alone, the interpretation of the sacred vol- 
ume renders the following ten propositions credible. 

(1.) That the absolute age of our earth is not defined 
in the sacred volume. 

(2.) That there may have heen a long interval in 
duration between the creation of “the heaven and the 
earth” mentioned in the first verse of the first c hapter 
of Genesis and the continuation of the earth’s history 
in the second verse. 

(G.) That the term “the earth” does not apply nec- 
essarily, in every instance, to the whole of our planet, 
but sometimes only to a part of it. 

(4.) That the state of the earth, described in the 
second verse as “without form and void,” does not 
necessarily mean matter never reduced to form and 
order, but may signify matter reduced to disorder, 
after previous organization and arrangement. 

(5.) That the “darkness” “upon the face of the 
deep,” also mentioned in the second verse, is not neg- 
ative of the previous existence of light, but may have 
boon only a temporary one. 

(G.) That the commencement of the account of the 
first six clays’ creation dates from the beginning of 
the third verse, “And God said, Let there be light.” 

(7.) That the act of “ the first day” does not neees- 
sarilv signify the creation of light, blit may have been 
only the calling of it into operation upon the scene of 
“darkness” described in the second verse. 


GEOLOGY 


GEOLOGY 


197 


(8.) That the calling of “the light Day” and “ the | 
darkness Night,” with the declaration that “ the even- 
ing and the morning were the first day,” does not nec- 
essarily imply that this was the first day, absolutely 
speaking. 

(9.) That the work of “ the second day,” mentioned 
in the sixth, seventh, and eighth verses, may have been 
only an operation performed upon the atmosphere of 
our earth. 

(10.) That the work of “the fourth day,” described 
from the fourteenth to the eighteenth verses, does not 
necessarily imply that the sun, moon, and stars were 
then tirst created or formed, for the first time, from 
pre-existent matter; but may only have been that 
they were then, for the lirst time in the detail of the 
history of the present earth, made visible to it, and 
ordained to their offices with respect to the coining hu- 
man creation ( Genesis and Geology , Loud. 1852; Phila. 
1853). 

II. Controversy between Geologists and Theologians . — 
“The kindred sciences of geology and palaeontology 
cannot yet be said to have been in existence more than 
eighty years, lint they had scarcely begun to assume 
the form and lineaments of sciences when that jeal- 
ousy, which has never since the days of Galileo ceased 
to exist to some extent between the religionist and 
the natural philosopher, began to evince itself. The 
religionist was alarmed by rumors that the rocks, un- 
der the searching eye of the geologist, disclosed a state 
of facts which was wholly at variance with the Mosaic 
detail of the manner and order of the creation ; and 
the studies of the geologists were, without much in- 
quiry, condemned and denounced, in no very measured 
terms, as destructive of the doctrine of the divine in- 
spiration of the Scriptures, and as infidel in their in- 
ception and tendency. On the other hand, the man 
of science was not slow in retorting that, if the record 
of Moses was of divine origin, it had nothing to appro- I 
bond from the development of facts ; and that, if it 
could not bear the test of ph} r sical truth, it must give 
way, even though it stood on the threshold of the 
treasury of inspiration ; for that, in such a crisis, the 
testimony of the senses with which man lias been en- 
dowed for his guidance must prevail against mere 
matters of faith. In argument the man of science 
had the advantage, but in practice he erred by too fre- 
quently assuming geological facts and Scripture inter- 
pretation without sufficient inquiry, and so contribu- 
ted, by hastily formed conclusions, to put asunder the 
word and the works of God, which, by the decrees of 
Omniscience, must ever be joined together. 

“The contest, in its early stages, was carried on by 
those religionists who construed the Mosaic days of 
the creation to have been six successive natural days 
of twenty-four hours each, measured by the revolution 
of our globe on its axis ; and the objection of the ge- 
ologist was founded on the obvious impossibility or 
absurdity that the world could have been stocked with 
the various animal and vegetable organisms, whose re- J 
mains have been found in the crust of the earth, in the l 
brief period of the six natural days that preceded the [ 
birth of Adam. The evidence was incontrovertible 1 
that for untold ages before that event generation upon 
generation of extinct animals had lived and died upon 
the earth. 

1. “To meet this difficulty, which threatened to blot 
out the lirst page of the Scriptures from inspired rev- 
elation, and which was obviously subversive of the 
authenticity and inspiration of all Scripture, a host of 
champions arose, who, instead of examining with pa- 
tience and testing with care the alleged facts of geol- 
ogy, recklessly denied their existence, or sought to 
explain and account for them on wholly inadequate, 
and in many instances on false and absurd principles 
and grounds. Some ascribed the existence of fossil 
remains to the Hood in the days of Noah ; others to 
what was termed a plastic power that existed as one 


of the natural laws of matter; and others, again, in- 
sisted that the various systems of rocks were created 
by the fiat of the Almighty with the fossil remains of 
animals that had never lived, and of plants that had 
never growm, imbedded in them. These w*ere the rea- 
sonings of Granville Penn, Fairholm, Kirby, Sharon 
Turner, Gisborne, Taylor, dean Cockburn, etc. ; and 
of them it is unnecessary to say more than that the 
progress of seientitic discovery lias extinguished their 
arguments, not only without injury to the cause of 
Scripture truth, but with the effect of establishing it 
on a surer basis. 

2. “ Another class of inquirers sought to solve the 
difficulty by conceding the well-established facts of 
geology and the geological explanations of those facts, 
but suggesting that the imperfection of our knowledge 
of the original Hebrew r at the present day was such as 
to preclude all certainty of a right interpretation of its 
meaning. This w'as the position of Babbage; while 
Baden Powell insisted that the narrative of the crea- 
tion is couched in the language of mythic poetry, and 
w’as not intended to he a historical detail of natural 
occurrences. It is satisfactory to know that the ne- 
cessity* for arguments so injurious in their tendencies 
to the cause of the truth and integrity of the Bible no 
longer exists; for the precision of the Mosaic phrase- 
ology will be found confirmed by every step that lias 
been taken in the development of the truths of geology. 

3. “At an early period of this controversy, Dr. Chal- 
mers, whose sagacious mind and prudent foresight 
comprehended the importance of this issue between 
the facts of geology and the language of the Scrip- 
tures, propounded the proposition that 4 the writings 
of Moses do not fix the antiquity of the globe’— that 
after the creation of the heavens and the earth, which 
may have comprehended any interval of time and any 
extent of animal and vegetable life, a chaotic period 
ensued, when death and darkness reigned upon our 
globe, and the earth became, in Scripture language, 
‘without form and void,’ and all that had previously 
existed was, by some catastrophe, blotted out, and a 
new world of light and life produced, by fiats of the 
Deity, in a period of six natural days, closing with 
the hirtli of Adam ; and thus the world which r.ow r 
exists was cut off from that which preceded it by a 
period of black, chaotic disorder. The geologist had 
thus ample room for the existence of all the organisms 
whose remains are found in the rocks that compose 
the crust of the earth, and he might labor in his in- 
vestigation of the nature and order of geological events 
w ithout endangering the truth of the Mosaic record of 
the creation” (Kit to). 

Against this view* Dr. Conant urges several objec- 
tions ( Revised Version of Genesis, p. xx), the force of 
which, however, may in a great measure be readily 
parried. 1. The sacred writer himself gives no inti- 
mation of such an interval. Of course not, since its 
mention forms no part of his plan. An argumentum a 
sileniio is wholly invalid. It is sufficient if a space 
can he found in point of fact. 2. It assumes that Mo- 
ses has given us an account of only a part of the crea- 
tive work. But no one claims that he has given all 
the details of creation, or even a complete outline of 
it. Ilis object w*as merely to state so much as stands 
connected w itli human history ; and on the view in 
question, this is more perfectly done than by any other 
interpretation, since it was the last creative stage by 
which the earth was specially fitted for man’s abode. 
3. Science show’s no such convulsion in the period pre- 
ceding man’s introduction on the earth. On the con- 
trary, an innumerable series of such cataclysms are 
revealed between the various strata of the earth’s 
crust, and there is special evidence of some genera] 
ice-wave almost immediately preceding the historic 
period, in the phenomena of drift, bowlders, and stria- 
ted rocks, all of which are everywhere strewn upon 
the present surface of the globe. 4. Six extended ere- 


GEOLOGY 


798 


GEOLOGY 


ative periods allow time for the operation of second 
causes, such as were obviously at work for long ages 
in the formation of the earth, whereas six mere (lays 
would he no more called for than a single instant, 
such as that in which the Almighty fiat evoked the 
primitive matter into being. Hut we are not compe- 
tent to prescribe what would be a worthy process for 
the Creator, and this objection overlooks the moral 
significance of these week-days as compared with the 
Sabbath. Besides, the. theory in question affords equal 
scope with any other for the. cycles of geogony, geol- 
ogy, and gcontology, while it brings the inspired nar- 
rative closer to man’s present home, with his animal 
and vegetable companions. For example, on the op- 
posite view, little propriety could be made out of the 
historical statement, Gen. ii, It), 20: “Now Jehovah 
God had formed from the ground every living [thing] 
of the field, and every bird of the heavens, and brought 
[each] to the man to see what he would call it; so 
[that] whatever the man might call it [as] a living 
creature, that [was] its name ; accordingly, the man 
called names to all the cattle, and to the bird of the 
heavens, and to every living [thing] of the field ; but 
for the man [one] did not find a helper as his counter- 
part [(or mate)]/’ Surely Adam did not call forth in 
review the fossil forms of long-extinct species from 
the bowels of the earth; and yet he must have done 
so if the animated tribes just spoken of, 'which are ob- 
viously the same with those of the sixth demiurgic 
day, were those of the geological ages. The advocates 
of a literal — although not local — creation on the sixth 
day are at liberty to apply the above-quoted language 
to an inspection of merely the surrounding creatures, 
or those inhabiting the garden of Eden along with 
Adam, as specimens of the various races roaming the 
earth — as in the case of the animals assembled from 
his own neighborhood by Noah into the ark [see Del- 
uge] ; for their interpretation gradually narrows down 
the scope of the Mosaic cosmogony to man’s special 
accommodation ; but this symbolical theory, being 
throughout of cosmopolitan extent, requires all its 
terms to he taken in their most universal application. 
Indeed, in order to be consistent, it should not be con- 
tent with the creation of a single human pair, and 
their location in a particular spot; but it really favors 
the modern skeptical demand for an aboriginally wide- 
spread humanity in various independent centres of or- 
igin. Sec Adam. 

The objections of Kalisch (Commentary on Genesis, 
p. 48 sq.), who concludes that, “ with regard to astron- 
omy and geology, the Biblical records are, in many 
essential points, utterly and irreconcilably at variance 
with the established results of modern researches” (p. 
52), are as follows : (1.) That the connecting *1, and , of 
vcr. 2, “expresses immediate sequence.” So little 
force is there in this as an absolute or universal re- 
mark, that the connection in question occasionally ap- 
pears at the beginning of a book (Exod. i, 1 ; 1 Kings 
i, 1 ; Ezra i, 1) or even an isolated epistle (2 Kings v, 
0; x, 2). See Gcsenius, Thesaurus , p. 305, b. (2.) 
Exod. xx, 31, “For in six days the Lord made the 
heaven and the earth,” etc., so far from being “in di- 
rect opposition” to this view, is in exact agreement 
with it, since that expression, which is a mere repeti- 
tion of the summary statement in Gen. ii, 1, contains 
not one syllable concerning the creation (it is i“lw” 
there, not as in Gen. i, 3) of matter. The for- 

mula “ heavens and earth” in Gen. i, 1 denotes the 
universe , as its absolute position there shows ; whereas 
in Exod. xx, 33 it merely designates the sky and the 
land as subdivisions of our planet, in distinction from 
the sea, which is immediately added to embrace the 
whole. (3.) “In Matt, xix, 4 man is said to have 
been created ‘ in the beginning the work of the sixth 
day was therefore believed to he coeval with the time 
specified in the first verse.” This is a piece of reason- 


ing which refutes itself. (4.) “ The earth could not 
have been termed ‘ dreary and empty’ if it [had] teem- 
ed with life and vegetation long before.” Certainly 
it could if this life and vegetation had been destroyed, 
as we suppose. (5.) For the same reason, the argu- 
ment cited by the same author (p. 45) from Hugh 
Miller (Testimony of the Rocks , p. 123, 122) is inappo- 
site here, that “for many ages ere man was ushered 
into being not a few' of [the species of]/ his humble 
contemporaries of the fields and woods enjoyed life in 
their present haunts, and that for thousands of years 
previous to their appearance many of the existing 
[species of] molluslcs "were in our seas ;” for these spe- 
cies may very readily have been recreated , on the the- 
ory wc are now advocating, even if they had been ex- 
terminated just before the period of man — which, how- 
ever, does not necessarily follow, for their germs may 
have survived the cataclysm supposed. 

The objections which Dr. Tayler Lewis urges against 
this “chasm theory,” as he styles it, and which he 
regards as “the most difficult as well as the most un- 
satisfactory” of all the proposed solutions, are still less 
forcible (Lange’s Commentary on Genesis, p. 367): 1. 
The incongruity between the events spoken of before 
and after the chasm. But on this theory there is no 
direct connection. 2. Want of natural or moral rea- 
sons for the alleged catastrophe. But no catastrophe 
is stated in the narrative; it is only an inference of 
modern times. 3. The theory is evidently brought in 
as an escape from geological difficulties. That is little 
against it, for all the modern explanations are but in- 
genious devices to meet some speculative view, except 
the bald one that holds to the literal creation of the 
universe in six periods of twenty-four hours each. On 
the other hand, the interpretation under consideration 
simply allows Moses to say nothing about matters with 
which he had nothing to do. We protest against mak- 
ing him wise in all the modern scientific ratiocinations. 
4. It makes the “heavens” of ver. 1 different from 
those of ver. 8. This is true only as to the extension 
of the term, which t he different character of the two 
contexts requires us to vary. Does any reasonable 
interpreter suppose the mere sky alone to be meant in 
vcr. 3, as in ver. 8 ? 5. The connecting 1, “and,” docs 
not admit “so sharp and remote a severance” in the 
history. We may reply that there was no wide gap. 
in the imagination of the writer; it exists only in the 
mind of the modern savant. But, supposing that Mo- 
ses did know all about the period thus ignored by him, 
every Bible reader is aware how often such gaps arc 
silently bridged by the conjunction in question, 'which 
might almost be described as a “disjunctive” rather 
than a copulative. The erudite objector himself can- 
didly admits (p. 130) that such minute grammatical 
points as the tense of the verb Jir^n, “was,” instead 
of ■'HPP, as well as the question whether the first day 
is exclusive or inclusive of the “beginning,” arc in- 
conclusive. 

On the other hand, the sacred text itself discloses 
several positive indications of such a hiatus as we have 
supposed between verse 1 and 2 of Gen. i. (3) The 
term “ beginning” implies a sequel or later stage of 
creation, especially as it stands in so emphatic a posi- 
tion and absolute a form. (2) The act here designated 
by the word “created” is not a general one, of which 
the details follow, but one totally distinct in kind from 
them, namely, the aborigination of matter itself : hence 
it is not used again until the bringing into existence 
of animal life is specified. (3) Accordingly, the phrase 
“heavens and earth,” although expressive of the uni- 
verse, does not mean the celestial and terrestrial worlds 
as such, or as now extant, hut merely their element- 
ary state or materials. This will be disputed by few 
if any interpreters. But thus, under any theory, a 
long interval must have elapsed between this primor- 
dial state of matter, and its organization or crystal li- 


GEOLOGY 


799 


GEOLOGY 


zation into the most rudimentary forms to which it is j 
possible to apply the statements of the succeeding 
verse. (4) For “the earth” is there spoken of sepa- 
rately as at least a segregated globe, and special prom- 
inence is given to it by its emphatic position in the 
sentence, as well as by the strong disjunctive accent 
placed upon it b}' the Masoretes, whereas the reduc- 
tion of the heavenly bodies to their present order is 
not spoken of till a much later point — a fact utterly 
irreconcilable with the view that makes the latter 
phenomena coincide with their astronomical produc- 
tion. (5) The force of the substantive verb <"1“?^. 
“was,” which, as being expressed in ver. 2, is not the 
simple copula, adds intensity to this distinction of the 
terrene from the aerial sphere, and shows that the 
writer has descended from the universal creation to 
our own planet as the immediate abode of man. Now, 
although the verb in question ought not perhaps, with 
some, be rendered became , remained , etc., yet as the 
equivalent of U7r«pyw, in distinction from tipi, it cer- 
tainly serves to point out a particular condition of the 
earth at a definite stage of its history as an actual 
event in contrast with its later and prior state; q. d. 
“The earth , however, still existed as,” etc. (C) The 
peculiar phrase employed to describe the condition in 
question is even more conclusive of this interpreta- 
tion ; for not only is this not an adjective, which would 
have expressed simple quality, but the nouns vlth 
literally tvasieness and desolation , or emptiness 
and vacuity (for both these ideas are implied, and the 
two words are almost s 3 monvmous), used superlatively 
by way of reiterated asseveration, are both expressive 
of a positive rather than a negative fact, the result of 
an active cause, and not a mere continuance of disor- 
der or the absence of organic principles, q. d. “ wreck 
and ruin” (compare Isa. xxxiv, 11, “He shall stretch 
out upon it the line of confusion [tulni], and the stones 
of emptiness \bbhu]f speaking of the complete demo- 
lition of a city'). (7) The same picture of devastation 
is contained in the parallel terms D".nri, abyss , and 
"T-vY' 1 '?®, surface of the icater ; b} r which the face of 
the globe (not its interior) is represented as a vast and 
billowy sea, just such as an arctic deluge or a sudden- 
ly melted mer de place would exhibit. (8) Finally, 
the brooding (rsrP^S) of the divine Spirit over this 
dark and turbid nest (not chaotic world-egg) does not 
exclude all previous creative or reductive energy, but 
rather implies the already fecundated germ or organ- 
ized embryo, which only needed incubation to bring 
it to perfection and manifestation. The semina rerum 
survived the extinction of the parent races, and a 
fresh brood was to repopulate the globe. Or perhaps 
the figure may still better be interpreted of the fledg- 
ling earth, chilled and stunned by the recent catastro- 
phe, nestling for warmth and protection beneath the 
genial wings of its Creator, to gather new vigor for the 
final essay at independent life and action. 

4. “ Dr. Pye Smith, in his Geology and Scripture , 
suggested that the chaotic period had been confined 
and limited to one particular portion of the earth’s 
surface, viz. that part which God was adapting for the 
dwelling-place of man and the animals connected with 
him. This section of the earth he designates as ‘a 
part of Asia lying between the Caucasian range, the 
Caspian Sea, and Tartary on the north, the Persian 
and Indian seas on the south, and the mountain ridges 
which run, at considerable distances, on the eastern 
and western flanks;’ and he suggests that this region 
was brought by atmospheric and geological causes into 
a condition of superficial ruin, or some kind of general 
disorder. This theory left to the geologist his unbro- 
ken series of plants and animals in all parts of the 
world, with the exception of this particular locality, j 
But the explanation was never received with favor, ! 
and was obviously inconsistent with the language of , 


Scripture, inasmuch as the term ‘the earth,’ in the 
first verse of the first chapter of Genesis, embraces the 
whole of the terrestrial globe, and ‘ the earth’ that 
is, in the next verse, described as ‘without form and 
void,’ cannot be more restricted in its meaning and 
extent.” This theory, however, is maintained by one 
of the latest expositors of this portion of Scripture 
(Murphy, Commentary on Genesis, ad loc.). 

5. Another scheme of reconciliation of Scripture and 
geology has for its foundation the assumption that the 
Mosaic days designate periods of vast and undefined 
extent — that the six days of creation portray six long 
periods of time, which commenced with “the begin- 
ning,” and have succeeded each other from thence 
through the various scenes depicted by Moses, up to 
and inclusive of the creation of man ; and that the 
seventh day, on which God rested from his work of 
creation, is still current. Against such a construction 
of the word “ day ” in the Mosaic record, Dr. Buck- 
land, who was one of the advocates for the natural-day 
interpretation, asserts that “ there is no sound critic- 
al or theological objection an admission, however, 
which there is abundant leason to dispute. See Day. 

“Long before the question had assumed the impor- 
tance and interest which the discoveries of geology 
have given to it, many well-informed philologists ad- 
vocated the opinion that the Mosaic da} r s were periods 
of long duration. Among the Jews, Josephus and 
Philo, and of Christians, AVhiston, Des Cartes, and De 
Luc, have so expressed themselves ; while of those 
who have written with full knowledge of geological 
facts, we have Cuvier, Parkinson, Jameson, Silliman, 
and Hugh Miller — all of them holding the opinion that 
the Mosaic days of creation were successive periods 
of long duration.” Nevertheless, in a hermeneutical 
point of view’, this theory is open to the gravest objec- 
tions. See Cosmogony, Mosaic. 

The statement of Prof. Tavler Lewis is perhaps the 
most finished form of this fashionable theorizing, name- 
ly, that, as St. Augustine expresses it, “common solar 
days are mere ricissitndincs cali , mere changes in the 
position of the heavenly bodies, and not spatia morn- 
rum , or evolutions in nature belonging to a higher chro- 
nology, and marking their epochs by a law of inward 
change instead of incidental outward measurements. 
.... This is not a metaphorical, but the real and 
proper sense of the word ‘ da} T ’ — the most real and 
proper, the original sense, in fact, inasmuch as it con- 
tains the essential idea of cyclicity or rounded perio- 
dicity, or self-completed time, without any of the mere 
accidents that belong to the outwardly measured solar 

or planetary epochs, be they longer or shorter 

Wonderful things are told out of the common use of 
language, and therefore common terms are to be taken 
in their widest compass, and in their essential instead 
of their accidental idea. . . . No better term could be 
used for the creative morce , pauses, or successive nat- 
ures, as Augustine styles them ; and so no better words 
than ‘evening’ and ‘morning’ could he used for the 
antithetical vicissitudes through which these succes- 
sions were introduced” (Lange’s Genesis, p. 131). This 
appears to us a gratuitous assumption of the whole 
question in debate, and that in a form so nearly akin 
to pure transcendentalism as to be beyond the reach of 
sober criticism. Its acceptance or rejection will de- 
pend upon the subjective condition of the inquirer’s 
own mind. But this interpretation, whether true or 
false, does not, in fact, at all touch the real difficulty be- 
tween the geologists and Moses; it rather occasions 
that difficulty, for it essentially identifies the creative 
reras of the two schemes. Now the discrepancy in 
question, as we shall see, relates not so much to the 
absolute or comparative length of the several creative 
processes, as to their relative order and character. 
These are unmistakably fixed in the most marked and 
indelible characters in the respective records of geol- 
ogy and Genesis, and, unfortunately for the theory in 


GEOLOGY 


800 


GEOLOGY 


question, they altogether fail to tally. However in- 
definite an extension, therefore, we may give to the 
word “day” in the sacred narrative, this will avail lit- 
tle so long as the successive events themselves so 
widely (lifter from those of the scientific system. More- 
over, the creations of the geological world overlap 
each other, and vary in their relative position in dif- 
ferent regions, whereas those of the Biblical cosmog- 
ony are strictly consecutive and universal. 

Similar objections apply to an ingenious theory of 
Prof. S. 1). Hillman (in the Meth. Quar. Rev. Oct. 18G8), 
who, while admirably defending the “nebular hypoth- 
esis,” proposes to identify the days of creation with as- 
tronomical mras. He leaves no room for the alterna- 
tions of “ evening and morning.” 

‘‘The consistency or harmony of these two records 
of the creation — that of Moses and that of the geologist 
— has, in conformity with the foregoing interpretation 
of the word ‘day,’ been attempted to be traced and 
vindicated by the late Hugh Miller in a lecture deliv- 
ered by him to the ‘Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tion’ in the year 18")5, and afterwards republished in 
The Testimony of the Rorks, and also by Dr. M‘Cans- 
land in his Sermons in Stones. The former sought to 
show the consistency between the facts of geology and 
the events recorded by Moses as having occurred on 
the third, fifth, and sixth days or periods of creation, 
stating that, as a geologist, he was only called on to 
account for those three of the six days or periods, in- 
asmuch as geological systems and formations regard 
the remains of the three great periods of plants, rep- 
tiles, and mammals, and those only; and ‘that of the 
period during which light was created — of the period 
during which a firmament was made to separate the 
waters from the waters — or of the period during w hich 
the tw o great lights of the earth, w’ith the other heav- 
enly bodies, became visible from the earth’s surface, 
we need expect to find no record in the rocks.’ But 
the author of the latter w r ork (Sermons in Stones ) has 
undertaken further to show r that geology confirms and 
establishes the truth of every statement in the record 
cf Moses, from the beginning down to the creation of j 
man — the original state of the globe 4 without form 
and void’ — the first dawn of light — the formation of | 
the firmament, and the separation of the w'aters below r I 
from the w'aters above it — and the first appearance of 
the sun, moon, and stars on the fourth day, intermedi- J 
ate between the creation of the vegetable w orld on the 
third, and the creation of the creeping things and birds 1 
on the fifth day.” But neither of these writers, how- 
ever acute and accurate in matters of natural science, 
was competent to appreciate the philological and exe- i 
getical bearings of the subject, and hence both have ! 
palpably warped the statements of the sacred text into 
a forcible conformity to their geological prepossessions. 
The many and striking discrepancies w ill appear in 
the following discussion of the facts of geology in de- 
tail. See section iv. 

The only objection which even these geologists have 
deemed sufficient to set aside the above explanation 
of Dr. Chalmers is that geology (in their view) fur- 
nishes no evidence of such a sudden and total break in 
the order of creation immediately previous to the in- 
troduction of man. It is difficult to see how r they can 
maintain this argument in the face of the two well- 
known facts, that no remains of the present races of an- 
imals or vegetables are to be found in the fossiliferous 
rocks (at least none in those below' the “ tertiary”), and 
that none of the fossil species are now extant upon the 
globe*. The few' exceptions claimed to these rules are 
too trifling and doubtful to affect their validity (these j 
are strongly adduced bv Lyell, Aniiq. of J fan, Bond, 
and X. V. 1803; a careful synopsis may be found in 
Bruce’s Races o f the Old World , X. Y. 18(53, di. xxxii ; 
comp. Rrii. and For. Evan. J&\ Oct. 18G1 ; Meih. Quar. 
Rev. Jan. 1XG4), and the eases of striking resemblance 
may be referred to the maintenance of analogous types 


of being in each fresh creation. Indeed, the universal 
presence of “drift,” and the s trite everywhere found 
upon rocks at the surface, seem to be conclusive evi- 
dence of some grand cataclysm closing the pre-Adam- 
ite period with universal wreck, which the flippant as- 
sertions of seme modern W’riters cannot gainsay. Sev- 
eral of the recently discovered cases of human remains 
or art, covered by deposits computed to be of immense 
age, are examined by an expert in the Meth . Quarterly 
Review for Oct. 18G5, and the preposterous conclusions 
derived from them by Lyell and others fully exploded, 
'file well-know n rate of the growth of deltas at the al- 
luvial mouths of all great rivers proves that they be- 
gan their course not over six thousand years ago. 
Prof. Jewell, of Chicago, in the Meth. Quar. Review for 
Jan. 18G9, carefully examines all the most recent dis- 
coveries alleged in favor of the antiquity of man under 
the five heads: “1. Lacustrine habitations of Central 
and Southern Europe; 2. ‘ Kjocken-middmgs' or Kitch- 
en refuse-heaps of the coasts of Denmark and Norw'ay, 
and the Atlantic coast of Xorth America ; 3. Deltas , as 
those of the Xile, Po, Ganges, and Mississippi ; 4. Cave 
deposits , in various parts of Europe; 5. Remains [of 
human bones and other objects] found in the peat, 
clay, and gravel-beds and terrace-formations of vari- 
ous parts of the world.” He then sums up the prop- 
er scientific conclusions from these geological data 
thus : 

(1 ) 5VTn.n anrl the mammoth in some parts of the globe were 
contemporaneous. 

(2.) Instead of carrying man back to the period assigned to 
the mammoth and other great extinct pachyderms, we are re- 
quired rather to bring the mammoth down to the period of 
man. 

(3.) AVe may safely say that the facts elicited not only show 
that those deposits in which remains of man have been found 
mat) have been formed within the six thousand years of his- 
torical chronology, but that in all probability such was the 
case. 

(4.) The knowledge we yet have of the dynamical geology 
of the various superficial formations from the “ pleistocene” 
upward, is riot such as to enable us to reach trustworthy con- 
clusions with regard to past time. 

(5.) Geological changes have taken place in the past with a 
rapidity seldom if ever witnessed at present. 

G. In view of all the difficulties, some interpreters in 
despair abandon all attempt at reconcilement between 
the Mosaic record and scientific findings, e. g. Kalisch, 
as above, and in general the whole nationalistic school. 
Even Quarry (Genesis aud its Authorship , Loud. l^GG 
chap, i), while acutely and forcibly showing the nn 
tcnahleness of the adjustments proposed in favor of 
the geological schemes, is not content with pronounc- 
ing the efibrt premature, in view of the unsettled state 
of the sciences involved, but proceeds to lay down the 
axiom that w'e must “give up looking for physical 
truth where moral truth alone is to be expected.” But 
surely this is not simply a case where the phenomenal 
theory of interpretation is competent to explain the 
■whole discrepancy — applicable as that principle was 
seen to be to much of the phraseology of the Mosaic 
account as early as the time of Gregory of Xvssa 
( ilexaemeron , in Opp. Greg. Xys., where the optical ex- 
planation is advocated); for as Moses is expressly 
writing on the subject of creation, a just exegesis de- 
mands that his statements — so far as they are parallel 
— must tally w ith all later discoveries and conclusions. 
See Hermeneutics. 

Mr. Quarry (Genesis, p. 17 sq.) adduces the follow- 
ing alleged discrepancies as evidence of the non-liis* 
torical character of the narrative in Gen. i, ii : (1.) 
The apparently simultaneous creation of both “ the 
heavens and the earth” in the beginning, whereas the 
firmament, the celestial bodies at least, are represented 
as being formed in detail at a later day. But if, as we 
hold, the first verse merely declares the calling into 
existence of the primordial matter or elements, not only 
does all repetition vanish, but the distinction inherent 
in the nature of the case between creation proper and 
progressive development is duly observed. Our ex* 


GEOLOGY 


801 


GEOLOGY 


planation likewise dissipates his objection to the use 
of the term “ days” before the creation of the sun. (2.) 
He alleges that the numeral “rnx, one, being here anar- 
throus, cannot properly be rendered “ first” in connec- 
tion with the opening eve-morn of creation, in the 
sense of the order of time. But certainty it can have 
no other meaning when followed in the same series by 
the other undoubted ordinals “second,” “third,” etc. 
That the sixth day alone has the article is due to its 
emphasis as the concluding one of the working week. 
(3.) The correlation between the two triads of works — 
“ the luminaries of the fourth day corresponding to the 
light of the first, the fishes and birds of the fifth to the 
waters and the firmament of the second, and the ter- 
restrial animals of the sixth to the dry land of the 
third” — constitutes no valid argument against the 
matter-of-faet character of the representation ; for these 
are merely signs of the progress and harmony observ- 
able in all God’s plans, and a special coincidence aris- 
ing in this case from the necessarily gradual prepara- 
tion of the globe for its varied classes of tenants. The 
assumptions that birds are impliedly represented as 
being produced from the air, that the creatures were 
all brought before Adam immediately upon their crea- 
tion, and that the woman was formed on a different 
day from the man, are all gratuitous and erroneous, 
as is likewise the supposition that the absence of veg- 
etation in chap, ii, 5 was absolute and universal, in- 
stead of referring to a mere spontaneous growth , and 
that in Eden simply. 

III. Geological Formations . — “ The crust of the earth 
is composed of locks, which have been formed, some 
by the action of fire, such as granite, basalt, porphyry, 
and greenstone, -which are termed igneous rocks, and 
some by sedimentary deposit at the bottom of water, 
such as sandstone, limestone, shale, etc., which are 
known as aqueous or stratified rocks. Igneous rocks 
were first formed ; and on these, from time to time, 
through the long ages of our planet's existence, were 
deposited the many successive layers of sedimentary 
stratified rocks, in which are found the fossil remains 
of the animals ami plants that were in existence 
during the several periods of deposition. These lay- 
ers of rocks have been frequently and extensively, 
throughout these jeras of their formation, broken up 
and distorted by volcanic action, and the protrusion of 
igneous rocks from beneath, upwards, and through 
them ; and by these the mountain ranges, in all parts 
of the earth, have been elevated, and those diversities 
of land and sea which the face of our planet presents, 
have been formed.” AVe shall continue, in accordance 
with the prevalent theory, to characterize the basis 
rocks, i. e. granite, and its unstratified congeners, as 
igneous , although recent investigations tend to the con- 
clusion that they, as well as the superincumbent anima- 
ted scries, are the result of the disintegrations, decom- 
positions, and fresh combinations of aqueous ^agency. 

“The first aspect of the globe which the investiga- 
tions of the cosmogonist have enabled us to realize, 
present to view a viscid igneous ball revolving on its 
axis, and wheeling its annual course around the sun, 
its centre of attraction. Its present oblate spheroid- 
ical form, flattened at the poles and elevated at the 
equator, is the exact form that a liquid sphere of the 
size and weight of the earth, revolving on its axis in 
twenty-four hours, would assume; and the still pre- 
vailing central heat, which is indicated by the gradual 
increase of temperature as we descend in mines from 
the surface in the direction of the earth’s centre, re- 
veals the igneous origin of the mass. The gradual 
cooling clown of this fiery sphere, by radiation into 
space, would result in the formation of a crust of gran- 
ite or some other igneous rock on the surface; and as 
the cooling progressed, the gases which are the constit- 
uents of water, and which are kept asunder by intense 
heat, would naturally combine, and thus the crust, in 
III.— E E E 


process of time, -would be covered with an ocean. Thus 
w r e have all the elements requisite for the production 
of the first series of sedimentary rocks, which were 
formed out of the disturbed particles or detritus of the 
igneous crust at the bottom of the waters which encir- 
cled the globe. The lowest of our sedimentary rocks, 
gneiss and mica schist, which rest on the primordial 
granite, or some other rock of igneous origin, are found, 
on inspection, to be composed of the debris or broken 
particles of granite, and so far the foregoing theory of 
their origin is confirmed. This series of rocks has 
been styled ‘ metamorphic,’ from the great change that 
has been wrought in their structure by the action of 
the intense heat to which, at the time of tlieir forma- 
tion, they must have been exposed, and bj” which they 
have been partially crystallized, and their lines of 
j stratification obliterated. They form a portion of that 
I vast pile of the bottom rocks which have been termed 
| ‘the Cambrian,’ and which have been calculated to be 
25,000 feet, or nearly five miles, in depth or thickness. 

“Throughout the long ages occupied by the deposi- 
tion of the mass of sediment of w-hicli these bottom 
rocks are composed, the temperature of the globe must 
have been very high, though gradually becoming more 
cool ; and the traces of animal life in them are ex- 
tremely rare and difficult to detect and identify. The 
scanty fossil remains which have been discovered by 
the industry and research of the geologist, reveal no 
type of animal life of a higher order than the zoophyte 
(a creature partly of animal and partly of a vegetable 
nature), annelids, or sea-worms, and bivalve mollusks 
— all of them marine creatures devoid of the senses of 
sight and hearing; and with them have been found 
traces of fucoids or sea-weeds, but no land vegetation. 
In fact, all that has been discovered of organic matter 
in these rocks indicates a beginning of life at the time 
of their formation, and a beginning of life in the low- 
est and most humble of its forms. 

“The long o?ra of the Cambrian formation was suc- 
ceeded by another as extensive, during which the rocks 
| which have been denominated ‘the Silurian’ were form- 
ed, by sedimentary deposits, to the depth (as some es- 
timate) of 80,000 feet. The fossil remains of animals 
throughout this formation are abundant, and disclose 
the zoology of the ara to have been confined to sub- 
marine invertebrates, zoophytes, mollusks, and crus- 
taceans; and no vertebrate animal appears until the 
close of the ara, when the remains of fishes are found 
in the beds which lie immediately at the top of the 
Silurian formation. Light to some extent must have 
pervaded the earth during this period ; for many of the 
mollusks, and all of the crustaceans, were furnished 
with eyes, some of them, as in the instance of the tri- 
lobite, of a peculiarly elaborate and perfect structure. 
It appears to l>e a law of nature, that animals whose 
entire existence is passed in darkness arc either wholly 
devoid of the organs of sight, or, if rudimentary eyes 
are discoverable, they are useless for the purposes of 
vision, as exemplified in the animals of all orders, from 
the mollusk to the mammals, which have been discov- 
ered in the caverns of Illyria, in the caverns of ►South 
America, mentioned bv Humboldt, in the Mammoth 
Cave of Kentucky, in deep wells, and in depths of the 
| sea where no ray of light can penetrate, 
i “The system that succeeded the Silurian was that 
in which the Devonian or Old-Bed-Sandstone locks 
were formed ; and all geologists concur in stating that 
the position in which these rocks are found indicates 
, that the ama was ushered in by violent commotions, 

! during which most of the principal mountain ranges 
in the world were thrown up. The fossil remains of 
this era, during which sedimentary rocks, calculated 
to be about 10,000 feet in thickness, were formed, pre- 
sent to our view, in addition to the previous existing 
orders of animals, vertebrate fish of the Placoid and 
| Ganoid species. These have been graphically de- 
scribed by Hugh Miller, in The Old Red Sandstone , as 


GEOLOGY 


802 


GEOLOGY" 


mk /£ci 

, h m JL. 

mm it 

PRINCIPAL ROCKS. 

Thickness in Feet. 

Classifica- 

tion. 

c 

g 

£ 

Predominant 

Fossils, 


Vegetable mould. 


Soil. 

Histor- 

ical. 

Human. 

Clay, sand, ami pebbles. 


Alluvium. | 

Post -ter- 
tiary. 

*3 

5 

S 

Marl and detritus. 


Drift. 


Freestone, calcareous grits, blue and j 
plastic clay, estunry marls, etc. | 1,550 

Pliocene, Mio- 1 Terti- 
ceue, Eocene. | ary. 

Chalk. j 60(1 

Cretaceous. 

11 

5 

04 

« 


Wealden clay. 

000 

Jura 

Lime-rocks. 


Oolite. 

1030 

Lias. 

1050 

Jf 

£fi 


Trias. 

1200 

New Red 
Sandstone. 


Perminn system. 

C 3 

f. ° 

3 

o 


Coal-veins. j 3000 

Coal 

Measures. 

Carboniferous limestone. 

| 2700 


Devonian system. 

9900 

O. R. Sandstone. 


Fish. 






Graywacke group. 

7500 

Silurian. 

c 

.2 

§ 

Molluscan. 


10,000 

Cnmbrian. 

*3 

< 

'/ ' v 'V) 

mm 

Slate, 

3 

O 

2- 

if 

CO 

* 5‘ 

3 

£ 

c5 

* 

1 

£ 

Quartz, 

S 

Hornblende, 

Talc, 

Limestone, 

| Serpentine, 

f? tAJ % apSMfet- 

| Mica, 

- Gneiss, 

| Granite. 

1 Indefinite. 

l.’nstratitied. 

hi j i i : 

hr 1 lie* £ 

2 £ a ^ O el 

i h o a K-, Cu >— 

Dikes running up. 


Plutonic. 

Igne- 

ous. 



Section of the Earth's Crust, showing the Relative Position of Us Strata. 


N.B.— The above distribution of the successive layers consist merely of the titles and systems adopted by different authors. Some of the strata are 
found onlv in certain localities of limited extent, and there nre modifications peculiar to other places. The “ rocks'’ (a general term in geology for all 
strata, of whatever chnracter) are represented in the cut as tilted up by an adjacent mountain. Several such changes of level, and not seldom even by 
dfi.remon, are sometimes exhibited us having successively taken place. The layers are frequently corrngated or otherwise disturbed, either singly or 
throughout the whole or various parts of the series. Any one of them may appear at the surface, in consequence of derangement or the absence of 
those properly belonging above it. Seldom or never are they all found together as here. They exist in endless variety of combination, both chemical 
and mechanical, and are sometimes thrown into almost promiscuous confusion by volcanic and other causes; but when present and in their natural site, 
they observe the arrangement indicated on the diagram. 


cartilaginous, and clad in strong integuments of bone 
composed of enamelled plates, instead of the horny 
scales which form the covering of the fish of the pres- 
ent day ; and it has been suggested by Dr. Buckland 
that this hard coating may have formed a defence 
against the injurious effects of water of a high temper- 
ature. The first traces of land vegetation have been 
found at the top of the Silurian, where the Old Red 
Sandstone rests on it.” “The fossil remains of a 
small reptile, which is stated to have been found in a 
rock at the top of the Old Red Sandstone, have been 
supposed to be the first traces of terrestrial life upon 
the globe; but professor Owen is of opinion that the 
rock in question does not belong to the Old Red Sand- 
stone formation, but to another long subsequent — the 
Trias. 

“The system that succeeded the Devonian is the 
Carboniferous, which is one of importance and interest 
to mankind, as having been the perioYI of the forma- 
tion of coal, iron, and the mountain limestone — a com- 


bination of products that have contributed so largely 
in these latter days to the comfort and convenience 
of the human race. The coal-measures, it is well as- 
certained, are the product of profuse and extensive 
vegetation, and the nature of the plants of which it 
has been formed is easily discoverable by a close ex- 
amination of the mineral itself, which, on inspection, 
discloses them to have been almost entirely of the 
cryptogamie order, and such as would be produced in 
abundance in positions of shade , heat, and humidity . 
Ferns, calamites, and esquisitaceons plants preponder- 
ate, and wood of hard and ligneous tissue, which is, in 
a great measure, dependant on the unshaded light of 
the sunbeam, is of rare occurrence in this formation, 
while season rings, which result from the impact of 
the direct rays of sunlight on the tree, are not found 
at all in the fossil woods of this or the previous forma- 
tion, though they appear in those of the succeeding 
systems.” 

“ In confirmation of these views, it is remarkable 


GEOLOGY 


803 


GEOLOGY 


that other geological phenomena, besides that of the 
absence of the season rings in the trees, indicate that 
there was no variation of seasons on our earth before 
the close of the carboniferous sera. Temperature ap- 
pears, up to that period, to have been tropical and uni- 
form in all latitudes; for the fossil remains testify 
that the animals and plants that lived and grew in the 
carboniferous and preceding se. as at the equator were 
cf the same species as those that lived and grew at the 
same period in the arctic regions — and the coal-meas- 
ures arc as abundant in the high latitudes as in the 
temperate and tropical zones. These phenomena can 
only be accounted for by the continued prevalence of 
the central heat, and the consequent neutralization of 
the effect of the sun’s rays, the influence of which now 
operates to produce the variety of seasons. The cli- 
matal condition of the earth in those ages must have 
been similar to those of a vast humid hothouse shaded i 
from the direct radiance of the sun, and which would 
be eminently conducive to the production of a prolific 
vegetation, such as that which has been stored up in 
our extensive coal-measures. 

“The zoology of this ajra furnishes us with the first 
undoubted traces of terrestrial animal life, in the form 
of insects of the beetle and cockroach tribes, scorpions, 
and reptiles of the batrachi.ui order — creatures which 
were adapted by nature to live in the dull, hazy, tepid 
atmosphere that overspread our planet at this time. 

“At the close of the carboniferous £era another com- 
menced, during which the system of rocks, which lias 
been denominated ‘the Permian’ system, was formed, 
the fossil remains of which indicate that great changes 
must have taken place in the physical constitution and 
aspect of the earth. The exuberant vegetation which 
had supplied the material of the coal-measures of the 
preceding formation had died away, and a vegetation 
of a higher order succeeded.” “The animals, too, 
which inhabited the Permian earth disclose an advance 
in organic life. The Saurian, or true reptile, here 
made its first appearance ; and the earliest traces of 
birds present themselves in the New Red Sandstone, 
a member of this system. The foot-tracks of these 
birds, of immense magnitude, which stalked on the 
Permian sands and mud, are found impressed on the 
now hardened slabs of sandstone and shales of that 
formation both in Scotland and in America. 

“ The Permian was succeeded hv the systems of the 
Trias and Oolite, whose fossil remains attest an ad- 
vance in animal as well as in vegetable organization. 
Trees of the palm, pine, and cypress species were min- 
gled with the diminished ferns, calamites, and coni- 
fers of the coal aera; and with this improved vegeta- 
tion, a higher order of insects appears to have come 
into existence to feed on and enjoy the increasing 
bounties of Providence. Put the peculiar and most 
striking feature of the age was the extraordinary in- 
crease, in number and magnitude, of the Saurian rep- 
tiles which then peopled the earth. The Saurians 
were divisible into three distinct classes — the terres- 
trial, or Dinosaurians ; the marine, or Elaniosaurians ; 
and the aerial, or Pterosaurians. They were all of 
them air-breathing creatures — amphibious, and more 
or less aquatic in their nature and habits; together 
with the birds whose tracks have appeared in these 
same systems.” “ The fossil remains of the reptilian 
inhabitants of earth, ocean, and air of the Oolite world, 
more especially of the Lias member of it, have reveal- 
ed them to have then swarmed out in such amazing 
numbers, and of such vast dimensions, that geologists 
have always dwelt on the scenes which the earth of 
those da}'s must have presented with astonishment 
and wonder, and have named that au'a ‘the age of the 
reptiles.’ ” 

“The Chalk or Cretaceous system succeeded that 
of the Oolite, and presents little, if any evidence of 
advance in creation. There is, however, a manifest 
decrease of the Saurian reptiles, which reigned in such 


abundance in the preceding formation, and some traces 
of the true mammals have, it is said, been found in this 
system. At all events, in the next formation, the 
Tertiary, we have distinct evidence of the existence of 
the mammal race of animals, including the quadruped 
inammifers, resembling those now extant.” 

“No traces of human remains, or of any work of 
art, have been found below the superficial deposits, or 
outside coating of the globe ; yet there is no evidence 
of the introduction on the earth of any species of ani- 
mal whose prototype was not in being before the hu- 
man race became inhabitants of the earth. Man’s 
pedigree is of less antiquity than that of any other 
known creature, though, geologically and physically, 
he is at the top of the ascending orders or scale of cre- 
ated beings; for it is admitted by the most eminent 
and best-informed geologists that the well-attested 
facts of their science demonstrate that the plan or law 
of the creation was progressive, beginning with the 
zoophyte in the bottom rocks, and ascending through 
the succeeding formations in the advancing forms of 
the Mollusk, C rustacean, Fish, Reptile, and Mammal, 
culminating with Man, since which no new species 
has been introduced on the scene. Sec Spectes. 

“The length of the time which has elapsed since 
our planet was a ball of liquid fire, and during which 
our world of light and life was elaborated in its vari- 
ous stages by the hands of the Almighty, admits of no 
calculation. It is not to be reckoned by days or years, 
or any known measure of time. We can only lock 
at the vast piles of the sedimentary rocks which have 
been laid down at the bottom of the waters in that pe- 
riod, to the depth of fifteen miles at the lowest calcu- 
lation, and ask how long was the space of time occu- 
pied in the formation of those masses by the slow pro- 
cess of depositing grain after grain of the particles of 
the matter of which they have been formed, and yet 
that is but a brief portion of duration when compared 
with that which must have been occupied by the cool- 
ing down of the globe, so as to admit of the existence 
of life upon its surface.” “The Scriptures do not fix 
the age of the earth, or supply any means by which 
we could calculate the length of time that had elapsed 
between ‘the beginning’ and the first appearance of 
the creation, including that of Adam ; and the Biblical 
records have unfolded to us that nearly six thousand 
years have passed away since he became an inhabitant 
of the earth. Facts, however, have recently come to 
light on which it has been argued that, though the ex- 
tent of the human a.*ra must have been short indeed 
when compared with the vastness of the geological 
ages, yet some of the human race must have tenanted 
the earth at a time long anterior to that assigned by 
the Bible records to have been the date of Adam’s 
birth. Mr. Leonard Horner’s experimental researches 
in Egypt, instituted with a view to ascertain the depths 
of the sedimentary deposits in the valley of the Nile, 
have brought to light relics of works of art and speci- 
mens of man's handiwork, such as pieces of pottery 
and sculpture, that tend to prove the existence of in- 
telligent manufacturers at a period of time that could 
not he less than eleven or twelve thousand years; but 
the premises from which this conclusion has been de- 
duced are too uncertain and fallible to warrant such 
an extension of the commonly received age of man. 
The rate of accretion of sedimentary deposits of a river 
like the Nile is subject to so many varying external 
influences, that, as a measure of time, it may be most 
fallacious, and no reliance can be placed upon it aS 
disproving the record of Moses. Still greater impor- 
tance has been ascribed to the discoveries in the gravel 
quarries of Abbeville and Amiens, in the north of 
France, and also in Suffolk in England, of flint imple- 
ments, such as hatchets, spears, arrow-heads, and 
wedges of rude manufacture, associated in undisturbed 
gravel, with the bones of extinct species of the ele- 
phant, rhinoceros, and other animals, whose remains 


GEOLOGY 


SOT 


GEOLOGY 


are found in the diluvium formed bv the last great 
geological revolution. If these implements arc of ar- 
tificial origin, they afford strong evidence that the 
races of men by whom they were manufactured were 
the contemporaries of animals which geologists affirm 
could not have existed within the Scripture term ot' 
human life. Nevertheless, many of those best ac- 
quainted with geological phenomena and the knowl- 
edge to be derived from them have not admitted that 
this association of a mixture of the Hint implements 
with the extinct animal remains is conclusive evidence 
of the co-existence in life of the manufacturer of the 
implements with those animals, and affirm that mere 
juxtaposition is no evidence of contemporaneity, when 
no remains of the human frame are to be found in the 
same place” (Kitto, Cyclnpccdia, s. v. Creation). The 
few instances in which such remains have been found 
together are all resolvable into cases of animals of 
comparatively recent extinction ( Bibliotheca Saci'a, 
July, 18G7, p. 457 sq.). The age of the diluvium also 
in which these remains have been discovered, uncer- 
tain as it was before, has not been determined by the 
presence of these human relics in it, so that the Scrip- 
ture chronology of the human arra has not been dis- 
placed. 

IV. Proposed Identification of these Geological Periods 
with the Mosaic '"Days.'' — Most geologists have frank- 
ly avowed the utter incompatibility of these rocky rev- 
elations with that of Genesis, if intended as the records 
of the same events; while those who have believed 
them to be reconcilable have usually contented them- 
selves with vaguely referring to the progress and or- 
der evinced in both accounts as a proof of their gener- 
al agreement, without attempting anything like a mi- 
nute comparison — doubtless for the reason that any 
distribution of the geological mras into precise por- 
tions, such as those of Moses, whether six or any oth- 
er number, must be highly arbitrary and fanciful. A 
few, however, following out the suggestion of Jame- 
son, have of late ventured upon such a collation in 
detail, e. g. Hugh Miller and Dr. M‘Causland (see 
above). 

1. The most ingenious of these schemes makes the 
first Mosaic “day” correspond to the age of the lower, 
metamorphic, or Cambrian rocks, in which the eyeless 
zoophytic life is compared with the vivifying influence 
of the Spirit brooding over the abyss as yet in dark- 
ness ; the second “day,” on which the firmament was 
formed, would answer to the Silurian series, contain- 
ing only submarine invertebra, evincing the presence 
of light; the third 11 day,” when the dry land brought 
forth the vegetable tribes, would be represented by the 
Old Ued Sandstone period, containing also vertebrated 
fish and traces of land vegetation ; the fourth “ dav,” 
which witnessed the development of the celestial lu- 
minaries, would agree with the Carboniferous tern, 
which indicates the lifting up of the veil of vapor that 
had before enshrouded the globe, thus giving rise to a 
more solid form of woody fibre ; the fifth “day,” when 
birds and reptiles were produced, would be denoted by 
the group of the Permian, New Ued Sandstone, Trias, 
and Oolite systems, with their gigantic Saurians and 
bird-tracks; and finally, the sirth “dav,” which saw 
the creation of land animals, would fail in the Creta- 
ceous or rather the Tertiary epoch, which presents the 
most perfect fossil mammals. Unfortunately, howev- 
er, there exist several important discrepancies in this 
effort at identification, which go to show that it is alto- 
gether artificial and untrue. In the first place , there 
are not exactly six of these strata of rocks, but some 
ten or a dozen; indeed, geologists are not agreed among 
themselves as to their proper number and classifica- 
tion, some making them out to hr* a score or more. 
Each of these is well defined in itself, and most of them 
contain their own peculiar -fossil forms;, yet even they 
are evidently in general hut progressive developments 
of the same organic types, and not totally fresh orders 


of being, such as the successive stages of the Mosaic 
creation exhibit. Nor are they uniformly distributed 
over the earth's surface, but some here and others 
there, although preserving almost invariably the same 
relative order; so that it is doubtful whether in all 
! cases they mark regularly consecutive reras in the 
earth’s history as a whole. Neither are they equal in 
I extent or thickness, so as to lead us to conclude that 
they occupied fixed portions of time, such as the Mo- 
saic days of co-ordinate length. In the second place , 
they do not tally in their productions with the Mosaic 
series. The account in Genesis does not introduce life 
at all until the third day, whereas we find the very 
lowest stiatified rocks teeming with certain kinds of 
animation. Nor is this the vegetable life, which first 
appears in the record of Moses; on the contrary, it is 
such as belongs to the animal kingdom, and is precise- 
ly of the marine order, which Moses withholds till the 
fifth day ; while geology does not discover vegetation 
(unless inferentially) till the junction of the Silurian 
with the Old lied Sandstone, and it docs not become 
characteristic till we reach the Carboniferous icra. In 
like manner, Moses makes the creation of birds simul- 
taneous with that of fishes, whereas fish appear in the 
strata of the period prior to that of the bird-tracks— in- 
deed, anterior to plants themselves. Moreover, rep- 
tiles, which figure so conspicuously in the geological 
annals, are passed over with little, if any distinction in 
( the Mosaic statement. Terrestrial animation, on the 
j other hand, to which Moses does not allude till the 
' sixth day, begins in the geological series as early as 
the Carboniferous age. In a word, the animal and 
vegetable kingdoms, which the sacred narrative places 
I at a decided interval, go on in parallel progression 
I through the rocky cycles ; and their relative order of 
| appearance is, if anything, rather the reverse of that 
given by Moses, while as little coincidence appears in 
the order of land and water products. In the thii'd 
place , not only is this theory opposed to the obviously 
literal meaning of the word “day” in the Mosaic rec- 
ord, and hampered by cxegetical difficulties at every 
point in its details (such as the application of the Spir- 
it's formative “ hovering,” ver. 2, upon the dark chaos, 
to the evolution of zoophytes; the segregation of the 
“firmament,” to the deposition of the Silurian rocks; 
the emergence of “ d v land,” to the fossil casts of the 
Old lied Sandstone ; tiic bursting forth of the heaven- 
ly “lights,” to the production of the coal-measures; 
the formation of marine “creatures and fowl,” to a 
motley stratification that chances to contain huge liz- 
j ards and nondescript rocs; and the creation of anima- 
ted nature, to the piling up of chalky or earthy sedi- 
; ment as a basis for alluvial soil) — aside from these for- 
midable difficulties, the whole interpretation of Moses’s 
simple language as adumbrating the vast and compli- 
i cated systems of geological changes is preposterous in 
the highest degree. We conclude, therefore, that a 
hypothesis, which, while it outrages every just and 
natural principle of hermeneutics, at the same time so 
utterly breaks down the moment it is actually brought 
to the test of scientific comparison, is wholly unworthy 
our acceptance. Moses is clearly relating a historic 
' creation of the present races of animal and vegetable 
life, and the analogies between the events and pro- 
gression of his days and those of the geological cycles 
1 are merely such resemblances as the successive resto- 
rations from a chaotic state would naturally present, 
although on a vastly different scale in point of dura- 
tion. 

2. Prof. Dana, in his Manual of Geology (Phila. 1802), 
gives (p. 712), as the latest conclusion of science on the 
relation between the Mosaic and the geological cos- 
mogonies, the following, which he has condensed from 
the lectures of Prof. Guyot (see Bibliotheca Sacra , Apr. 
1855, p. 321 sq.), and which wc here place in parallel 
columns with the statements of the first chapter of 
Genesis : 


GEOLOGY 


805 


GEOLOGY 


1. The beoinntno of activ-| 
ity in matter.— In such abe-J 
ginning from matter in the 
state of a gaseous fluid the .ac- 
tivity would be intense, and it 
would show itself at once by a 
manifestation of light, since 
light is a resultant of molecu- 
lar activity. A hash of light 
through the universe would 
therefore he the first announce- 
ment of the work begun. 


2. The development of the 
Earth. — A dividing and sub- 
dividing of the original fluid 
going on would have evolved 
systems of various grades, and 
ultimately the orbs of space, 
among these the earth, an ig- 
neous sphere euveloped in va- 
pors. 


3. The production of the 
earth's physical features, 
by the outlining of the conti- 
nents and oceans. The conden- 
sible vapors would have grad- 
ually settled upon the earth as 
cooling progressed. 


4. Tiie introduction of 

LIFE UNDER ITS SIMPLEST 

forms, as in the lowest of 
plants, and perhaps, also, of 
animals. The systems of struc- 
ture characterizing the two 
kingdoms of nature, the Radi- 
ate of the vegetable kingdom, 
and the Radiate , Molluscan. 
Articulate, and Vertebrate of 
the animal, are not brought 
out in the simplest forms of 
life. The true Zoic sera in his- 
tory began later. As plants 
are primarily the food of ani- 
mals, there is reason for be- 
lieving that the idea of life was 
first expressed in a plant. 


5. The display of the sys- 
tems in the kingdoms or LIFE 
— the exhibition of the four 
grand types under the animal 
kingdom, being the predomi- 
nant idea in this phase of prog- 
ress. 


6. The introduction of 

THE HIGHEST CLASS OF VER- 
TEBRATES — that of the Mam- 
mals (the class to which Man 
belongs', viviparous species, 
which are eminent above all 


And the earth was without 
form, and void ; and darkness 
was upon the face of the deep. 
And the Spirit of God moved 
upon the face of the waters. 
And God said, Let there be 
light; and there was light. 
And God saw the light, that, it 
was good ; and God divided 
the light from the darkness. 
And God called the light day, 
and the darkness lie called 
night. And the evening and 
the morning were the first day. 
— Ver. 2-5. 

And God said. Let there be 
a firmament in the midst of 
the waters, and let it divide the 
waters from the waters. And 
God made the firmament, and 
divided the waters which were 
under the* firmament from the 
waters which were above the 
firmament; and it was so. 
And God called the firmament, 
heaven. And the event ny and 
the morning were the second 
day — Ver. G-S. 

And God said, Let the wa- 
ters under the heaven be gath- 
ered together unto one place, 
and let the dry land appear; 
and it was so. And God call- 
ed the dry land earth, and the 
gathering together of the wa- 
ters called he seas ; and God 
saw that it was good. — Ver. 9- 
10 . 

And God said, Let the eaith 
bring forth grass, the herb 
yielding seed, and the fruit- 
tree yielding fruit after bis 
kind, whose seed is in itself, 
upon the earth ; and it was so. 
And the earth brought forth 
grass, and herb yielding seed 
after his kind, and the tree 
yielding fruit, whose seed is in 
itself, after his kind ; and God 
saw that it was good. A tid the 
eveniuy and the momma tcere 
the third day. — Ver. 11-13. 

And God said. Let there he 
lights in the firmament of the 
heaven, to divide the day from 
the night ; and let them be for 
signs and for seasons, and for 
days and years; and let them 
be for lights in tile firmament 
of the heaven, to give light 
upon tiie earth; and it was 
so. And God made two great 
lights ; the greater light to rule 
the day, and the lesser light to 
rule the night; he mad- the 
stars also. And God set them 
in tiie firmament of the heav- 
en, to give light upon tiie earth, 
and to rule over the. dav and 
over the night, and to divide 
tiie light from the darkness; 
and God saw that it was good. 
A nd the evening and the morn- 

i ng were the fourth day Ver. 

14-19. 

And God said, Let the waters 
hring forth abundantly the 
moving creature that hath life, 
and fowl that may fly above 
the earth in the open firma- 
ment of heaven. And God cre- 
ated great whales, and every 
living creature that movetli, 
which the waters brought forth 
abundantly after their kind, 
and every winded fowl after 
his kind ; and God saw that it 
was good. And God blessed 
them, saying, lie fruitful and 
multiply, and fill the waters in 
the seas; and let fowl multiply 
in the earth. Ami the evening 
and the morning were the fifth 
day. — Ver. 20- r 3. 

And God said, Let the earth 
bring forth the living crea- 
ture after his kind, cattle and 
creeping tiling, and beast of the 
eartli after his kind ; and it 
was so. And God made the 


other vertebrates for a qual- 
ity prophetic of a high moral 
purpose, that of suckling their 
young. 


7. The introduction of 
man — tiie first being of moral 
and intellectual qualities, and 
one in whom the unity. of na- 
ture has its full expression. 


beast of the earth after his 
kind, and cattle after, their 
kind, and everything that 
creepeth upon the earth after 
his kind ; and God saw that it 
was good. — Ver. 24-25. 

And God said, Let us make 
man in our image, after our 
likeness; and let them have 
dominion over the fish of the 
sea, and over tiie fowl of the 
air, and over the cattle, and 
over all the earth, and over ev- 
ery creeping tiling that creep- 
eth upon tiie earth. So God 
created man in bis own image, 
in the image of God created lie 
him ; male and female created 
lie them. ... And God saw 
everything t hat lie had made, 
and, behold, it was very good. 
And the evening and the morn- 
inn were the sixth dan.— Ye r. 
2G-31. 


Now, however probable these stages of creative prog- 
ress may be as an exposition of science , yet we find the 
following (among other) discrepancies in them when 
compared with the Biblical text, which to our mind 
show their utter incompatibility, if intended as an 
ACCOUNT OF TIIE SAME SERIES OF EVENTS, and which 
would hopelessty entangle the philologist and exposi- 
tor in any careful and judicious comparison of the geo- 
logical details with the language of the sacred writer. 

(1.) It is not clear how light would necessarily be 
the first result of molecular activity in a gaseous fluid ; 
the mass, we should suppose, would have already' been 
in an incandescent state. Nor would such “cosmical 
light” (whatever that phrase may mean) have been 
subject to the ebb and flow' constituting the alternations 
of “ day and night,” or “ evening and morning.” In- 
deed, the phraseology of Moses reveals to us at the 
outset a turbulent surface rather than a homogeneous 
hut quiescent mass of igneous vapor as the primeval 
chaos. 

(■2.) “Waters” is certainly a very inappropriate term 
for a fiery nebular substanee in whatever stage of flu- 
idity ; and the division of the supra from the infra- 
firmamental liquid is a strange description of the dis- 
integration of melted spheres from each other, wheth- 
er still vaporized or eooled to semi-solidity. 

(3.) The picture of the chaotic floods retiring to their 
proper beds bears very little resemblance to the crys- 
tallization of the azoic rocks, or the hardening of the 
metamorphie basis of the earth’s e:ust, and but slight- 
ly more to the condensation of steam and other vola- 
tilized matter by a radiation of heat. Besides, as ge- 
ology itself shows, the present configuration of land 
and crater, plain and mountain chain, river and desert, 
has been the efteet of innumerable changes, elevations, 
and subsidences at vastly different periods scattered 
throughout the pre-Adamie history of the globe. 

(4.) On the third day life was not merely “intro- 
duced under its simplest forms,” hut there were cre- 
ated, besides “grass” and “ herb yielding seed,” also 
the fully deveioped “fruit-tree, whose seed is in it- 
self;” whereas geology, instead of exhibiting in the 
lowest stratified rocks any of these higher forms ot 
vegetation, leaves but the bare presumption (for the 
author is only able to state, page 120, that “sea-weeds 
or alf/ce are the earliest of the globe, probably preceding 
animal life”) of the existence of any plants whatever 
in that age. The fourth day. which was devoted to 
the production or manifestation of the heavenly lumi- 
naries, has, it will be observed, nothing corresponding 
to it in the geological cyeles. A notable chasm ! 

(5.) The “four grand types of the animal kingdom 
(radiate, mollusk, articulate, and vertebrate),” how- 
ever, are not to he found in the Mosaic statement, 
which refers only to marine creatures and (aquatic) 
birds as belonging to the fifth “phase of progress” 
(day), for the reason obviously that the soil was still 
too "hum id for land animals, such as geology, never- 


GEOLOGY 


806 


GEOLOGY 


thelcss, exhibits in company with the finny and feath- 
ered tribes indiscriminately. 

(6.) If the rendering “whales” be allowable in ver. 
21, Moses has already anticipated the lactiferous ani- 
mals oil the preceding “ day and, at any rate, some 
of the lower orders of vertebrates, if not actual reptiles 
(for the author’s gloss of “prowling” for “creeping” 
things is an unheard-of interpretation), are here first 
introduced in connection with their terrene associates. 

(7.) In the Mosaic account man is not assigned to 
a separate sera from the quadrupeds, although he is 
mentioned last. The planting of Eden and the forma- 
tion of Eve likewise must have taken place on the 
same sixth day. 

In short, striking as are the general features of re- 
semblance between the above geological and Mosaic 
schemes of creation, especially in the idea of syste- 
matic progression manifest in both, yet, when closely 
examined, in no instance are the epochs found to tally 
in particulars. It is only by a most violent distortion 
of facts on the one side, or of language on the other, 
that the two can be assimilated in detail. We prefer, 
therefore, to adhere to the older explanation, which 
finds a silent place for the records of geology in the 
first and second verses of Genesis, and refers the narra- 
tive of Moses to a subsequent creation of the present 
order of terrestrial things in six literal days. Nor are 
we deterred by the supposed “belittling conception of 
a Deity working like a day-laborer by earth-days of 
twenty-four hours,” since the Almighty lias grounded 
upon precisely this fact the institution of the Sabbath 
for man during all the weeks of time. See Cosmog- 
ony. 

3. A still more recent and plausible schedule is pro- 
pounded by Trof. C. H. Hitchcock, in the Bibliotheca 
Sacra , July, 1807, as follows: 


! » 

Order 

Order of Geology. 


Names 


£ 

of 

Scripture. 

When 

Introduced. 

Predomi- 

nance. 


of 

Formations. 


6. 

Man. 

Mam mills. 

Man. 

Large Mammals. 

Man. 

Mammals. 

f 

w 

jl 

1 Alluvium. 

1 Tertiary. 

L 

5. 

Birds. 

Water, 

Animals. 

Small Mammals. 
Birds. 

Reptiles and 
Reptilian 
birds. 

’s 

| 

1 1 

’■! 

\ Cretaceous. 

\ Jurassic. 
j^Triassic. 

4. 

Sun, 
Moon, 
ami Stars. 

Reptiles, Fishes, 
Artieulata, 
Molluson, and 
Radiata. 

Plants. 
Amphibians. 
Fishes, Plants, 
Mollushs, and 
Trilobites. 

1 


Permian. 

Carboniferous. 

Devonian. 

Silurian. 


3. 

Plants. 

Pry land, 
and seas. 

Protozoans. 

Plants, 

Dry land, and 
* Oeean. 


Azoic. 


f Iluroninn. 

| Labradorian. 

[Laurenlian. 


2. 

Clouds and 
water sepa- 
rated. 

Atmosphere. 

Development of 
Atmosphere. 
Gradual cooling 
nnd condensation 
of earth. 




Previous 

to 

the 

formation 

of 

Strata. 


1 . 

1 

Day and night. 

Light. 
Creation of 
matter. 

Day and night. 
Igneous fluidity. 
Nebular stale'. 
Light. 

Creation of mat- 
ter. 






The author carries out the parallel between the Mosaic 
narrative and the geological phenomena at considera- 
ble length under each day, and makes a closer approx- 
imation to a harmony in the details than any previous 
writer. lie wisely abstains, however, from a minute 
examination of the sacred text in comparison with the 
scientific elements ; for here, like all his predecessors 
in this direction, his exegesis would inevitably have 
broken down. The obvious purport of the account in 
Genesis is sacrificed to the geological theory, and its 
phraseology is forced into the geological formula}. 
There is no natural or critical agreement. Nearly all 
the above strictures apply with more or less force to 
this new version : we have space to point out hut a 
few special discrepancies: “day and night” are only 
provided for at the close «f the first, “day,” and then 
as an indefinite series of alternations between light and 
darkness, not as a singlo voxStjiuyov ; each day in the 


geological order laps over into the other, instead o i 
being sharply defined as in the scriptural statement ; 
it is the “plants” of the fourth geological “day,” 
rather than those of the third, that correspond with 
the vegetable productions of the scriptural progres- 
sion ; t he marine creatures of the fifth Scripture day 
are only to be recognised in the “amphibians” and 
“fishes” of the fourth geological cycle; indeed, the 
fourth of the Scripture (lays, which is occupied only 
with the appearance of the heavenly luminaries, is the 
most active of the geological periods in the production 
of every form of animated existence, beginning with 
trilobites and running up to complete vegetation. 

But, most of all, we object to the general view under 
which this is set forth as an interpretation of the Bib- 
lical passage in question, namely, that it is a “ picto- 
rial” description, or “symbol,” or “vision,” “retro- 
spectively prophetic:” whereas it seems to us a plain 
literal history, utterly destitute of the least semblance 
of imagery or seer-like import beyond the mere use of 
a few anthropomorphisms familiar to the Hebrews. 
If such liberties are allowable in hermeneutics, that is 
the end of all meaning in words. For instance, when 
the successive scenes in the Mosaic narrative are com- 
pared (J leth. Quart. Rev. April, 1808, p. 298) with the 
regularly numbered emblems of the Apocalypse (the 
seven seals, trumpets, angels, vials, etc.), the very im- 
portant fact is overlooked that the latter are avowedly 
set forth as symbolical representations of ecclesiastical 
import, while the former are unaccompanied by any 
intimation of an ulterior significance. Indeed, this 
comparison is suicidal to the interpretation which it is 
put forth to support; for, as the visions of John in tho 
Kevelation could only have authority as premonitions 
of the future on the concession of their actual occur- 
rence in the manner related by himself, so the descrip- 
tion of Moses in t lie opening chapters of Genesis must 
be accepted as literal statements of real phenomena, in 
the most obvious and bona-fide sense, before they can 
be made the basis of a symbolical application. See 
Cosmology, p. 52S. 

This much only may, however, be granted as true in 
the hypothesis upon which these and similar explana- 
tions are based : that the geological and the Mosaic cre- 
ations being, like all of God's acts in a given line, mu- 
tually typical of each other, inasmuch as they proceed 
upon a uniformity in the divine plan — the development 
of an archetypal idea — were in their great outlines , 
of course, similar, and hence may, to a considerable ex- 
tent, be justly compared together, and even portray- 
ed in the same general terms ; but on this very account 
interpreters of the Bible ought to be the more careful 
not to confound the two, and especially not to substi- 
tute the distant and more dimly shadowed event for 
the one directly in the mind of the sacred writer. See 
Double Sense (of Scripture'). In t lie present in- 
stance, moreover, there is eminently a natural ground 
of necessity for the coincidences above discernible : al- 
though no amount of ingenuity has been able to dram- 
atize the facts of geology into precisely six acts, yet 
the aboriginal creation of matter is of course the first 
I scene in each case ; light is a prerequisite of vegeta- 
tion, and this, again, must he the antecedent food for 
the animal tribes, while man forms the fit outcome of 
the entire plot : the incidental details of the two schemes 
might, he expected to vary, as, in fact, they are found 
to do. 

V. Scriptural A l fusions to Geological Facts. — (Con- 
densed from Piittison, ut sup. p. 103-108.) The sacred 
writers make frequent references to the physical phe- 
nomena of the earth beneath. Are such references in 
accordance with the facts established by subsequent 
researches and the observation of travellers, or do the 
latter convict the former of ignorance and error? The 
question is the more important as the materials of the 
earth are not treated conventionally in the Scriptures, 
but naturally. In speaking of the saml on the sea- 


GEOLOGY 


807 


GEOLOGY 


shore, one writer alludes to it as a barrier placed by 
God against the encroachments of ocean, another as j 
an illustration of the countless host of the Philistines, | 
a third as representative of the multitude of God's peo- 
ple. Far different and more adapted to universal use ! 
is tiiis than the employment of one object always to 
express one and the same idea, as in the symbolic pic- 
ture-writing of the Egyptians and Assyrians, and as is 
the usage in much of the literature of the East. Free- 
dom of language, if not of thought, is unknown where 
every object is used as a conventional sign, always ap- 
propriated to one fixed sentiment. We shall find inci- 
dental accordances between the facts and the record in 
regard to all things capable of such verification. Take, 
for instance, the references to stone as an illustration. 

The patriarchs and Israelites are frequently direct- 
ed to build an altar; the injunction to form it of un- 
hewn stones will be found given where rocks abound ; 
the permission to make it of earth refers to districts in 
which we now find that stone cannot readily be pro- 
cured. The numerous instances given of the setting 
up of commemorative stones in Palestine by the Isra- 
elites could not have occurred in the rockless plains 
of the Euphrates. See Stone. The geological trav- 
eller can readily understand the perfect congruity of 
the picture which A ^presents the army of the Philis- 
tines encamped on one hill, the hands of Israel on the 
opposite slope, and a brawling brook in the valley be- 
tween, to which David descended, and from its water- 
worn pebbles selected five for bis sling, smoothed and 
sharpened by the stream. 

The mention of slime for mortar, and brick for stone, 
in the Babylonian plains (Gen. xi, 3), in Egypt (Exod. 
i, 14), and again by the Euphrates during the captiv- 
ity (Nah. iii, 14) ; and of bitumen in the vale of Sid- 
dim (Gen. xiv, 10), equally corresponds with the pres- 
ent geological character of the regions referred to. 

The frequent occurrence of rocks and broken ground 
in Syria is the groundwork of much of the scenery re- 
flected in the general language of Scripture writers, 
and of many incidents in the history. This accurately 
accords with the actual physical character of the land 
itself. 

The representations of scenery are so minute in 
some cases — for instance, the rocky defile in Gibeah, 1 
Sam. xiv, 4 — that it becomes quite easy for travellers 
to test the fidelity of the writer. To this kind of crit- 
icism the Bible is more exposed than any other book, 
owing to its variety in time and place; and it need 
hardly be said that it has escaped not only' unscathed, 
but illustrious, from the trial. The peninsula of Sinai 
is nowhere formally geographically described in the 
Bible; but from the record of events alleged to have 
taken place there, wc infer that it was a mountainous 
district, full of barren, rugged rocks, towering into 
peaks, and cleft by deep, dry valleys. Laborde, and 
the numerous tribe of Oriental travellers, in describing 
the surface scenery, bring before ns evidence of the 
peculiarly appropriate terms in which Scripture alludes 
to this region. ( )ne of the latest travellers thus writes : 

“ Soon after this we came to an immense plain of hard 
rocks. The mountains which bounded it were truly 
magnificent: their numerous summits seemed not so 
much peaks as spikes, or tall spires of rocks. The 
whole scene is one of the most magnificent desolation 
and unminglcd terror” (II. Bonar, Desert of Sinai). 

So, in the limestones, there exist now caverns which 
are the verifications of the cave of Mnchpelah, of Adul- 
lam, and others, by showing the oecurrenec of strata in 
which the requisite phenomena are found; while the 
water-supply of the whole country at present is an ac- 
curate reflection of the scriptural account of wells and 
streams. The language of David and of the prophet 
Isaiah could only have been employed by persons fa- 
miliar with the need of irrigation, and its modes, pe- i 
euliar to the countries to which they profess to belong. 
How vividly were the mountains of the Holy Land ] 


impressed upon the minds of the principal writers of 
the Bible ! There are about three hundred distinct 
references in Scripture to mountains ; a glance at a 
good physical map of the region will show the corre- 
spondence between the statements of the record and 
the facts of the earth’s surface in the districts referred 
to. 

Were a student shut up in a cell, without any other 
channel of knowledge than the Word, he might con- 
struct a physical geography of the East which would 
contain all the leading features of that remarkable 
portion of the globe. The river of Egypt, with its 
fertile plains, the stony desert, the rocky Sinai, the 
hills of Judaea, the rivers and lakes, the mountain 
chains, and the Great Sea, would all fall into their 
proper places on his ideal map. 

So the allusions to “the dust of the earth” will car- 
ry a fulness of meaning to persons living in a land 
where, during a large portion of the year, the whole 
surface is reduced to dust by the influence of heated 
winds. God’s power in creating man out of such in- 
coherent matter, and man's humble bodily origin and 
end in this life, are forcibly represented bv the frequent 
employment of this illustration, so familiar to the in- 
habitant of the East. 

In like manner, the references to the inundation of 
the Nile (Amos ix, 5; Job xxviii, 11), to earthquakes 
(Isa. ii. 19; Job ix, G; xxxiv, 20), to mines, metals, 
precious stones, flints, and other mineral substances, 
are all found to be in accordance with the actual phys- 
ical phenomena. 

The references to day in the Scriptures are frequent, 
and accord with its uses and localities at the present 
day. Sec Clay. 

VI. (leoh fjij of Bible Lands . — (Condensed from Pat- 
j tison, ut sup. p. 111-11G.) The geology of the coun- 
tries mentioned in holy Scripture is as yet but imper- 
t fcctlv known to us, but quite sufficient has been ascer- 
tained to test the accuracy of the incidental allusions 
made by the writers of the Bible. 

1. The framework of Syria is composed of two 
mountainous ranges, running in a parallel strike with 
the coast of the Mediterranean, much broken by trans- 
verse clefts, extended by irregular spurs on either 
I side, with detached minor masses, having the same 
north and south bearing. Between the two ridges 
runs the valley of the Jordan, occupying a deep de- 
pression, terminating in the Dead Sea. 

The body of the country is a mass of Jurassic 
(oolitic) rocks, overlaid unconformably by a spread of 
, cretaceous deposits (chalk and green sandstones), both 
much disturbed by outbursts of trnppean matter (green- 
stone and basalt), and scooped into valleys along nu- 
merous lines of ancient fracture. The oolite was eroded 
before the deposition of the chalk, and the latter has 
been washed and worn away prior to the deposition of 
the third system, namely, the eocene tertiary, which 
is found in patches, and abounds along the lands of 
medium height on the shores of the Great Sea. There 
are a few rceonsolidated rocks and gravels of a more 
recent period, but the bulk of the whole region is a 
highl y contorted, inclined, and broken mass of second- 
ary, metamorphic, and igneous rocks. 

The Libanus is an axis of Jurassic rock, with some 
thin beds of oolite coal, surmounted by chalk, and 
flanked towards the coast by the great tertiary num- 
mulitic limestone so universal along this parallel of 
the earth. The chalk contains fossils similar to that 
of the south of France. The tertiaries are often found 
isolated after the fashion prevalent in other countries. 
In some places conglomerates of the later Jurassic age 
occur, containing pebbles and fossils of the lower 
oolites. 

Towards the sources of the Jordan we find igneous 
rocks prevailing, with their usual concomitants of me- 
tallic minerals, highly-colored landscapes, abundant 
springs, and verdant pastures. Ilermon (the highest 


GEOLOGY 

>> 


808 


GEOLOGY 



mountain in Palestine) is formed of limestone, with 
bursts of trap. In this range occur the strata contain- 
ing abundant remains of tish and vegetable impres- 
sions. 

Galilee exposes similar conditions: an underlying 
oolite rock, an overlying cretaceous, with quartz, much 
broken up by trap. 

The upper portion of the Jordan valley, as far south 
as the lower shores of the Sea of Tiberias, are much 
diversified by greenstone, lavas, pumice, and other 
kinds of igneous rock. 

On the east rise the granitic and trappean moun- 
tains ot Moab, inclosing a limestone country. In the 
valley itself are tertiary and post-tertiarv accumula- 
tions, while on the west the tertiary sandstone occu- 
pies in force the plateaus of the subjacent limestone. 
Mount 'l abor is a mass of chalk rock, and ‘the cliffs 
around the Sea of Galilee are much intersected by ba- 
salts and lavas. 

The Jordan valley itself shows two terraces far 


above its present waters, 
both due to its former con- 
dition, first as an arm of 
the Red Sea, and then as 
a lake. 

The Mount of Olives 
and the other eminences 
around Jerusalem are 
composed of chalk with 
Hints; the older lime- 
stones appear in the bot- 
tom of the deep valleys. 
T his is the substratum of 
the Iloly City and its vi- 
cinity. Rethlelieni is sur- 
rounded by coarse yellow 
cretaceous limestone. 

The Dead Sea is bound- 
ed on the west principally 
by tall cliffs of stratified 
limestone, with much rub- 
ble of an ancient date : to- 
wards the south, tertiary 
marls and clays prevail, 
the whole abounding with 
traces of volcanic agen- 
cies. The upper portion 
of the long mound at the 
south of the lake is gyp- 
sum, overlying rock salt, 
which is furrowed into 
knolls and pillars. The 
south-eastern shore is col- 
ored by the bright red 
of the sandstone; on the 
east are heavy limestones 
and chalk, altered by the 
igneous masses forming 
the mountains of Moab. 
The north-east angle is 
formed of basaltic rocks, 
with volcanic slag and 
pumice. 

The whole Jordan val- 
ley was undoubtedly a 
vale in tertiary periods ; 
but the Dead Sea appears 
to have received the re- 
markable features which 
now characterize it sub- 
sequently to the deposi- 
tion of the tertiary beds. 

2. Extending our sur- 
vey eastward from Pales- 
tine, we may embrace a 
wide area, extending from 
Ararat to the head of the 
Persian Gulf, the general features of which arc now 
well known. Many of the groups of secondary sedi- 
mentary strata familiar to ns in Western Europe also 
occur here, uplieaved, together with their overlying 
tertiary deposits, by igneous rocks, in like manner. 

Along the margin of the present river-courses are 
alluvial deposits now in process of formation. Next, 
marine alluvium, following the direction of the exist- 
ing great valleys, opening out into the sea, and still 
increasing at the outlet. Colonel Rawlinson and Mr. 
Ainsworth represent the marine alluvium as increasing 
at the head of the Persian Gulf at the rate of a mile in 
thirty years (Quarterly Journal , x, *4 G5). There are 
occasional fresh-water deposits, showing the former 
existence of small lakes; somewhat of earlier date are 
extensive formations of gravel, proving the occurrence 
here, as in the West, of a period of turbulence at the 
commencement of the post-tertiary epoch. 

The highest tertiary deposits form a system of red 
sandstone and marls underlying the valleys of tho 


GEOMETRICAL STYLE 


809 


GEORGE 


Mesopotamian rivers. This newest red sandstone ter- 
tiary is much developed in Asia Minor, and thence 
eastward. It has subordinate beds of gypsum, with 
occasional naphtha and bitumen springs. Underneath 
this the nmnmulitic series extends lor 800 miles with 
a thickness of 3000 feet. This has been much disturb- 
ed by elevation, which has thrown it into domes and 
waves, constituting much of the peculiar scenery of 
the Turkish eastern frontier. Below this occurs the 
cretaceous series in the form of bine marls, white lime- 
stone with Hints, and hippurite limestone. A few 
traces of Palaeozoic rocks are brought to the surface: 
the whole is sustained by the granitic axis of the Cau- 
casian chain, and occasionally metamorphosed by an- j 
cient volcanic contact. 

There are no fossils common to the cretaceous series 
and the beds above, though both are marine deposits, 
nor arc there any common to the tw r o great tertiary 
divisions, the nmnmulitic and t lie red. 

3. On turning westward towards the head of the 
Red Sea w-e encounter the remarkable peninsula of 
Sinai, formed of red sandstone, borne up and lifted 
by one of the most forcible exhibitions of igneous rocks 
to be found in the world. 

On approaching the spurs of the Sinaitic range, 
boulders of red granite and metamorphic rock give in- 
dications of the disturbed district beyond. 

4. The well-known narrow plain of Egypt is a val- 
ley bordered by nummulitic rocks of eocene age, inter- 
spersed w r ith sandstones. As the plain narrows, the 
scenery becomes diversified by frowning precipices of 
granite, basalt, and porphyry, which confine the foam- 
ing river at the cataracts, and expand into the moun- 
tains of Nubia. The sands, which stretch away to- 
wards the peninsula, cover tertiary strata, with silici- 
fied forests of the same age. 

Geometrical Style. See Gothic Architec- 
ture. 

Ge'on (r?/<ap), a Griecizeil form (comp. Gen. ii, 13, 
Sept. Taui’) of the name Giiion (q. v.), one of the liv- 
ers of Paradise, mentioned (Ecclus. xxiv, 27) along 
w r ith the Jordan, Euphrates, etc., in a description of 
wisdom (“as Gcon in the time of vintage,” meaning 
apparently the Nile at its period of annual overflow'. 
Fritzschc, ad loc.). 

George, David. See Joris. 

George, duke of Saxony, celebrated for his an- 
tagonism to Luther and to the Reformation, was born 
Aug. 4, 1471. lie began to govern his province in 
1500, and immediately showed a persecuting spirit 
against those wdio inclined to the Information. In 
1519 he attended the fonr-davs’ controversy bctw r een 
Eck and Garlstadt at Leipzic, and afterwards that of 
Eck and Luther, from the 4th to the 14th of July. 
Discussions followed between the duke and Luther, 
which were afterwards continued alternately in Dres- 
den and Wittenberg. He several times accused Lu- 
ther to his uncle, the elector of Saxony, and sought to 
prejudice him against the reformer. Family misfor- 
tunes, such as the death of his brother Frederick in 
1510, of his daughter Margaret in 1524, and of his w ife 
in 1525, also contributed to embitter his disposition, 
lie died April 17, 1539, but his religious views had 
some time before undergone a change ; and under his 
successor and brother, Henry, the Deformation made 
great progress in Saxony. There is a MS. life of 
George of Saxony by George Spalatinns in the libra- 
ry of Gotha. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 28 ; Schulze, 
Georg u. Luther (Leipz. 1834). 

George, elector of Brandenburg-Anspaeh, one of 
the first German princes who embraced the doctrines of 
the Reformation, and who was therefore surnamed the 
Confessor, or the Pious, w r as born at Onolzbach March 
4, 1484. In 1515 he became, conjointly with his broth- 
er Casimir, regent of the province, in consequence of i 


the infirmities of his father, Frederick. Both his fa- 
ther and his brother having died, he assumed the gov* 
eminent in his own name in 1527. In 1524 he had 
become acquainted with Luther, and adopted his views. 
In 1529 he accompanied the reformer to the Diet of 
Spires, where he signed, on the 19th of April, the cele- 
brated protestation against the “Majority Decision” of 
the German princes. The next year he went to the 
Diet of Augsburg, where he indorsed the Evangelical 
Confession on the 25th of June, on which occasion he 
Boldly'- said to the emperor that “ he would rather lose 
his head than renounce his religious convictions.” 
Follow ing out the plans of ecclesiastical reform of his 
brother Casimir, he framed in 1533 the Church organ- 
ization of Brandeiiburg-Nuremberg, as also the liturgy 
which accompanied it, and which has been recently 
revived. He died at Onolzbach Dec. 17, 1543. See 
Pauli, Allgem. Preuss. Staatsgesch. iii, 457, 470; Buch- 
liolz, Gesch. d. Kurmurk Brandenburg, iii, 217, 290, 305; 
Mosheim, Ch. llist. iii, 42; Herzog, Real-Encyld. v, 28. 

George, Enoch, bishop of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born in Lancaster Co., Virginia, in 
1707 or 1708; was converted at about eighteen ; en- 
tered the itinerancy in 1790 ; was made presiding elder 
in 1796; 1801 and 1802 located ; in 1803 re-entered the 
travelling ministry; was elected bishop in 1810; and 
died at Staunton, Va., August 23, 1828. He was the 
son of a planter in moderate circumstances, and of no 
religions profession. His mother died while he was 
young, and he acquired in youth the gnv and dissolute 
morals of the district where he lived. He was, how'- 
cver, at this period deeply convinced of sin under the 
preaching of that holy man, the Rev. I>. Jarratt (q. 
v.), of the English Church. But the subsequent re- 
moval of his father to North Carolina for a time left 
him to grow more -wicked than before, until at length, 
with his father, he was converted by the instrumental- 
ity of the Rev. John Easter. Although young, and 
exceedingly reluctant, he wt.s thrust out l>y r his breth- 
ren and his own inward convictions into public serv- 
ice, and for two or three years was very useful as an 
i exhorter, local preacher, and assistant on circuits with 
Philip Cox and Daniel Asbury. In 1790 he entered 
the itinerancy, and from that time he bore for many 
years the hardships and trials of a pioneer Methodist 
preacher. His usefulness and influence continually 
increased, and in 1796 lie was made presiding elder on 
a district which included Charleston, S. C., and his la- 
bors there resulted in a great revival of religion. In 
1799 his health failed, and he became “superannu- 
ated.” In 1800 he re-entered the itinerancy, but in 
1801 his health failed again, and lie located and opened 
a school at Winchester, in Virginia, and soon after 
married. In 1803 lie re-entered the Conference. In 
1816 lie w-as delegate to the General Conference at 
Baltimore. In the same year his w ife died. Bishop 
McKendree’s health had now nearly failed, and -when 
the Conference met it w-as decided to elect more bish- 
ops, and the choice fell upon R. R. Roberts and Enoch 
George. From this time he labored with untiring zeal 
and universal acceptability in supervision, visitation, 
and in preaching the word with mighty power, until lie 
was taken from labor to rew’aid. His funeral sermon 
was preached I 13 ' bishop MeKendree at the General Con- 
ference of 1832. Bishop George was a mail of large 
information, 'and of great activity and force of mind. 
His genius was very original ; the effect of his preach- 
ing was very great. Dr. Samuel Luckev gives the fol- 
lowing account of a sermon by bishop George at John 
Street Church, New' York, in June, 1816. “The .sub- 
ject of the discourse was the conquest which Christ 
achieved over sin and death. He announced his text : 
‘When he ascended up on high, he led captivity cap- 
tive;’ and, from the moment he uttered it, had com- 
plete command of his audience. The picture he drew 
of sin, and the desolations it has wrought, was truly 
terrific. Like a mighty cataract, he rushed on with 


GEORGE 


S10 


GEORGE 


constantly increasing impetuosity, till every nerve 1 
that had braced itself to resist was unstrung, and his j 
hearers seemed passively to resign themselves to an 
influence which was too strong for them. At a felici- 
tous moment, when the feelings of his audience would 
bear to be turned into a different channel, he exclaim- 
ed, in the language of holy triumph, and in a man- 
ner peculiar to himself, ‘ But redemption smiled, and 
smiled a cure !’ His train of thought was now changed, 
but the power of his eloquence was not at all dimin- 
ished. Sin had been personified as the tyrant mon- 
ster, swaying his daemon sceptre over our race, and 
death in liis train, dragging the conquered millions to 
their dark abode. A mightier than these was now in- 
troduced — the sinner’s Friend and the conqueror of 
death, lie came to destroy the works of the devil, 
and to deliver those who, through fear of death, were 
all their lifetime subject to bondage. The risen and 
ascended Saviour was represented as coming up from 
the empire of death, having seized the tyrant upon his 
throne, and then as triumphantly passing the portals 
of heaven amid the acclamations of heaven’s shining 
hosts. The description was so vivid as to be almost 
overwhelming. The audience, which had just before 
seemed like a terror-stricken multitude, almost within 
the very grasp of the destroyer, now exhibited coun- 
tenances relumed with returning smiles. The whole 
assembly was actually in a commotion” (Sprague, An- 
nals, vii, 193). — Minutes of Conferences , ii, 35 ; Wakely, 
Heroes of Methodism, p. 137 ; Fry, Life of If. George 
(18mo) ; Stevens, Hist, of the Methodist Episc. Church , 
vols. iii, iv. 

George of Laoihcea, one of the Semi-Arian lead- 
ers in the theological controversies of the 4th century, 
lie was born at Alexandria, and was presbyter of the 
church there before the Council of Kicjea in 325, when 
his Arian opinions caused him to be deposed. lie 
then removed to Syria, where he became bi>hop of 
Laodicea. He attended the Council of Antioch in 329 
or 339, and the Council of Tyre in 335. He failed to 
be present at the Council of Sardica in 347 (his ene- 
mies said through fear), and, while absent, was deposed 
and excommunicated, but the sentence was never car- 
ried into effect. Ho was in great favor during the 
reign of Constantius II, and took part in many matters 
of importance ; among others, in the elevation of Mile- 
tius to the bishopric of Antioch. Basil of Ancyra (q. 
v.) and George of Laodicea were the heads of the so- 
called Semi- A rians, who adopted the Eusebian doctrine 
that the Son is of similar essence with the Father. 
They published, “in conjunction with other bishops 
assembled in a synod at Ancyra, A.D. 358, a long and 
copious document, of a doctrinal and polemical nature, 
in which the doctrines of this party concerning the re- 
semblance of essence, as well in opposition to the Ni- 
cene as to the Eunomian articles, were fully unfolded ; 
at the- same time that the Church was warned against 
the artifices of those who, by expunging the term ov- 
e Tia , were seeking to suppress the doctrine of the re- 
semblance of essence itself. It was here very clearly 
shown that true resemblance in all other things pre- 
supposed resemblance of essence, and that without 
this the notion of a Son of God, essentially different 
from created existences, could not he maintained” 
(Neander, Ch . Jlistor //, ii, 405). This creed was adopt- 
ed by the emperor Constantius and by the Synod of 
Sirminm, A.l). 358. We know nothing of him after 
the death of Constantius. II is works are, Letters to 
A leva nder, bishop of Alexandria : — ’HZyicdifiior tig Erai- 
fiiov tov ’Efuwii’uv : — A work against the Manichrcans, 
now lost. — lloefer, Hour. Biog. Generate, xx, 11 G; Ne- 
ander, Church History, Torrey's transl., ii, 405 ; Banr, 
Trinit dtshhre, i, 471 : Herzog, Reul-Enryklop. v, 30 ; 
Lardner, H r or&j, iii, 590. 

George of Poi.fxz, the first regular Homan Cath- 
olic bishop who embraced the Reformation, was born 


at Meissen in 1478. lie studied theology in Italy, was 
licensed there, and, having gone to Rome, became pri- 
vate secretary to pope Julius II. Having been admit- 
ted to the order of Teutonic Knights, he went to Prus- 
sia, where, in 1518, the grand master, Albrecht, mar- 
grave of Brandenburg, appointed him bishop of Sambia. 
Kis diocese was the first in which the Reformation 
strongly established itself. Brissman, a pupil of Lu- 
ther, who had previously been a Franciscan, came to 
lvonigsberg, and the bishop invited him to preach the 
first evangelical sermon in the cathedral, Sept. 24, 1523. 
The bishop himself soon openly adopted the Reformed 
doctrines. In January, 1524, he ordered that all ser- 
mons and baptisms should take place in the vernacu- 
lar throughout Prussia, and at the same time recom- 
mended Luther’s Bible and writings. Luther wrote 
to Spalatin (Feb. 1, 1524), Episcopus tandem units Chris- 
to nomen dedit et evangelizut in Prussia, nt-mpe Sambi- 
ensis , and in the following year, 1525, lie dedicated to 
Dr. Georgia a Polentis, vere episcopo Sambiensis eccle- 
sia?, his Latin commentary on Deuteronomy. In 1525 
bishop George resigned all secular government. He 
then retired to the palace of Balga, and died April 28, 
1550. — Herzog, 1 hal-Encgklop. v, 2G. 

George of Trebizoxd was really a native of 
Crete, but as that island has a bad name, especially 
unfit for a priest, he took that of Trebizond, whence 
his ancestors had come. In 1420 he came to Italy — 
first to Venice, afterwards to Rome, where he lectured 
on rhetoric and philosophy. He was made secretary 
to Nicholas V, but lost t lie favor of the pope by his 
tierce advocacy of Aristotle against Bessarion, Pletlio, 
and other learned Greeks. Alphonso, king of Naples, 
received him at his court and gave him a pension. 
11 3 died at Rome in 148G, aged 91. He was undoubt- 
edly a man of talent and learning, but quarrelsome 
and vain. He translated some of Plato’s writings, and 
Eusebius’s, but inaccurately. He published also a 
treatise De Rhetorica (Venice, 1523, fol.); controversial 
pieces against the Greek Church, to be found in Alla- 
tius, Gra cia Orthodoxa. (Rome, 1G52, vol. i); Compara- 
tio A nstotclis et Platonis (Von. 1523, 8voV See Bruek- 
er, Hist. Phil, iv, G5 ; Herzog, Peal-Ennjllopii die, v, 23 ; 
Cave, Hist. Lit. ii, App. p. 49; Fabricius, LihL Graca , 
iii, 102; Niecron, Mem. j)oiir Servir , etc., tom. xix; 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, xx, 127. 

George, prince of Anhalt and bishop of Merse- 
burg, was born at Dessau Aug. 13, 1507, and educated 
at Lcipsic. In 1525 he was made subdcacon, and in 
152G cathedral provost at Magdeburg. When twenty- 
two years of age his attainments were such that he 
I was chosen by Albert, elector of Mentz, to be one of 
his council, and gained his highest confidence. About 
this time the Reformation attracted the attention of 
i all men, and Luther's writings concerning the dif- 
ference between the law and gospel, etc., were dis- 
I persed and read everywhere. Prince George was no 
idle spectator. At first he diligently opposed the 
so-called “novelties,” and devoted himself specially 
to the study of Church history and to the Scriptures, 
the better to defend the “Church.” lie began all his 
investigations with prayer. The result was that he 
openly embraced the doctrines of the Reformation, 
and renounced all connection with popery. He put 
down superstition and set up seminaries of learning — 
the surest way, under God, of exterminating the er- 
rors which superstition had engendered. AH, how- 
ever, was done with Christian mildness, and multi- 
tudes were soon brought by divine grace to rejoice 
experimentally in the light of the Gospel. By 1534 
Anhalt may he said to have become Lutheran. In 
1545, hv t lie persuasion of Luther, lie consented to give 
himself to the work of the ministry, and was made 
bishop of Merseburg — an office full of danger and dif- 
cultv, which no worldly man would covet. He was 
ordained by Luther, Melancthon, and other divine^ 


GEORGE 


811 


GEORGE 


August 2, 1545, in the cathedral at Merseburg. His 
whole time was thenceforth devoted to this holy work. 
Above all low ambition and revenge himself, he en- 
deavored to remove them from others. He was a 
peacemaker among princes. Insults he bore with 
Christian magnanimity. He lived with God in his 
heart, and for God in his intercourse with men. Lu- 
ther, Justus, Johns, and others were his most intimate 
friends. As in life, so in death, he was full of resig- 


Antioch, in the year 356, there was an assembly of 
thirty’ - Arian bishops, and in this assembly George was 
ordained, and received the mission to go and govern 
the Church of Athanasius. George entered Alexan- 
dria accompanied, by the order of Constans, by sol- 
diers under the command of Sebastian, duke of Egypt, 
and a Manichasan. Under pretext of searching for 
Athanasius, they violated the most sacred places, and 
committed every kind of crime. The Alexandrians 


nation, faith, and love ; dwelling most sweetly on the | rose against him and obliged him to fly ; but, sup- 
promiscs, especially John iii, 16; x, 27, 28, and Matt, ported by Constans, he returned more powerful than 
xi, 28. lie died Oct. 17, 1553, aged forty-six. His | ever. 13ut “the pagans, whose temples George had 


y nodal addresses, in Latin, were published by Came- 
rarius (1555) ; his German writings by Melancthon 
(7th edit. 1741). Melancthon wrote two elegies on his 
death, and Camerarins wrote his life in Latin, which 
was translated into German by Schubert, and publish- 
ed, with additions (Zerbst, 1854). — Middleton, Biog. 


pillaged, afterwards rose in revolt, threw themselves 
upon George, and overwhelmed him with abuse and 
with blows. The next day they paraded him through, 
the town upon a camel, and, having lighted a pile, they 
threw him and the animal on which he was mounted 
upon it, after which they threw his ashes to the winds, 


Fvang. i, 292 ; Beckmann, Hist. d. Fiirst. Anhalts , vols. | and plundered his house and his treasures (A.D. 361). 


v, vi ; Herzog, Real-Encgklop. v, 24. 

George Scholarius. See Genxadius of Con- 
stantinople. 


Julian, on learning this outrage, was much irritated, 
or pretended to be so; he wrote a severe letter to the 
insurgents, but pursued them no further. As a lover 
of books, he endeavored to recover the library of 
George, St., patron of England, and of several George, which was very numerous. It is hard to rec- 
other countries and towns, according to the legend. onc j] e the accounts of George’s extreme ignorance 
was a prince of Cappadocia, who fell a martyr under y^th the accounts given of this librarv. — Socrates, 
Dioclesian, 303. Ilis greatest achievement was the j m st Ecc i Lk> iiy cll> xiv? 28; bk. iii, ch.‘ ii; Neander, 

i. * - i i - 1 ”"- " IJist. ii. 60; Hook, Eccles. Biog. v, 295; Sozomen, 

Hist. Eccl. iii, 5 ; iv, 10 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Ginirale , 
xx, 116. 

George the Pisipian (Georgius Pi sides or Pisida) 
flourished about the middle of the 7th century. (This 
account is taken substantially from Smith, Dictionary 
of Biography , s. w) George is described, in the manu- 


conqnest of a dragon, by which he delivered a king’s 
daughter from death. He is common]}’ figured on 
horseback, in full armor, with the dragon writhing 
at his feet. It is difficult to separate the mythical 
from the historical in the accounts of St. George. Cal- 
vin and the Magdeburg centuriators deny that there 
ever was such a person. But it is certain that he was 


honored, and churches named after him, at a very early j scripts of his writings, as deacon and \aoro<pv )■ «£, “rcc- 
period, in the Eastern Church, especially in Georgia. | ord-keeper,” or 2rero0iUa£, “keeper of the sacred ves- 
Gregory of Tours mentions the honors paid him in Fels ” of the Great Church (that of St. Sophia) at Con- 
Franee in the Gth century ; and Gregory the Great or- pt«ntinoplc. He appeals to have accompanied the em- 
dered the renewal of an ancient church of St. George p eror Heraclius in his first expedition against the Per- 
that was falling to ruin. His relics are said to be still s j ans? and to have enjoyed the favor both of that cm- 


preserved in the church of St. Germain dcs Prcsat 
Paris. The Crusaders held St. George in special devo- 
tion ; the English Council held at Oxford, 1222, made 
St. George’s day a festival for all England ; in 1347 
Edward III instituted the Order of the Garter under 
his protection. Some writers identify St. George with 
the Arian George of Cappadocia (so Gibbon, Decline, 
and Fall , Harpers’ edit., ii, 454). Mr. John Hogg, sec- 
retary of the Iloyal Society of Literature, published a 
pamphlet in 18G2, entitled Supplementary Notes on St. 
George the Martyr, in which he professes to settle the 
question by a Greek inscription taken from a very an- 
cient church at Ezra, in Syria, in which George is 
styled Martyr, and the date of his death fixed before 
A.I). 346, while George the Arian, of Cappadocia, was 
yet living. Sec Heylyn, Historic of St. George (Loud. 
1631, 4to); Gibbon, Decline and Fait, chap, xxiii ; 
Sanctorum, t. iii ; Milner, Historical and critical Inquiry 
into the History and Character of St. George ; Lowick, 
Life and Martyrdom of St. Georye; Methodist Quarter- 
ly Review, 1862, p. 499. 

George the Arian, also George tiie Fuller, 
or of Cappadocia, was called by the first name from 
the occupation of his father, and by the second be- 
cause he was an inhabitant of that province. Few 
men have been more corrupt and more despicable. 
He began life as a parasite. Afterwards he was pro- 
vided with a subaltern office in the commissariat de- 
partment of the army, and he there embezzled the 
money intrusted to him, and was obliged to fly. He 
then became a vagabond. To so many bad qualities 
he added profound ignorance : he had no knowledge 
of letters, and still less of the holy Scriptures and the- 
ology. Notwithstanding these disadvantages, this man 
appeared to the Arians a fit instrument to work their 
will. They brought the emperor Constans into their 
views ; be was their protector and their support. At i 


peror and of Sergius, l.r.t nothing further is known of 
him. Among his writings are Ei’f rijv Kara Tlfpc-diu 
'EKGTparttav 'BpaicXtiov rov fiaenXeujg dicpoaaetg rpGe, 
De Expeddione Ileraclii Imperatoris contra Persas Li - 
bri tns. I his work is mentioned by Suidas, and is 
probably the earliest of the extant works of this writer. 
The three books are written in trimeter iambics, and 
contain 1098 verses. They describe the first expedition 
of Heraclius, whose valor and piety are immoderately 
praised, against the Persians, A.D. G22, when he at- 
tacked the frontier of Persia in the neighborhood of 
the Taurus. YlvXepog ’Afianacog or ’Afiapuca, Helium 
Araricum or Avarica, a poem of one book of 541 trim- 
eter iambic verses, describing the attack of the Avars 
on Constantinople, and their repulse and retreat (A.D. 
626); Et’t; ti)v ayiav rov Xotorov rov Oeov i/ftaiv arao- 
rarjiv. In Sanctum Jcsu Christ i, Dei Nostri , Resurrec - 
tionem, consisting of 129 trimeter iambic verses, in 
which George exhorts Flavius Constantine, the son of 
Heraclius, to emulate the example of his father ; prob- 
ably written about A.D. 627. 'EZaiipepov ifoi Ko<r- 
porpyia,Opus Sex Dicrum seu Mlineli Opifcium , a poem 
of 1910 iambic verses in the edition of Quercius, who 
restored some lines omitted by previous editors. It 
has been supposed that this work has come down to us 
in a mutilated condition, for Suidas speaks of it as con- 
sisting of 3000 verses. But it is possible that the text 
of Suidas is corrupt, and that we should read elg tV// 
dtaylXta instead of rpt<r\iXia. The poem lias no ap- 
pearance of incompleteness. The Hexaemeron con- 
tains a prayer as it" by the patriarch Sergius for He- 
raclius and iiis children. The poem was probably writ- 
ten about A.D. 629. Etc rop pccraiov fiiov,De Vanitate 
Vitce, 262 iambic verses; Kara Hevijpov, Contra Serer- 
nm, or Kara evoaefiove Stvfjaav ’Aimoxeiag, Contra 
impium Severum Antiochice. This poem consists of 
731 iambic verses. A passage of Nicephorus Callisti 


GEORGIA 


812 


GEORGIA 


(Wist. Eccl. xviii, 48) lias been understood as declaring 
that George wrote a poem against Johannes Philopo- 
iius, and it has been supposed that Philoponus is aim- 
ed at in this poem under the name of Sevcrus, while 
others have supposed that Nicephorus refers to the 
Hex.iemeron, and that Philoponus is attacked in that 
poem under the name of Prod us. Put the words of 
Nicephorus do not require us to understand that George 
wrote against Philoponus at all. This poem against 
Severus contains the passage to which Nicephorus re- 
fers, and in which the Monophvsitc opinions which 
Philoponus held are attacked. liytcibgiov £ u; ran iiyi- 
o v Avugtihtio)' nanrvpa. Encomium in Sanctum Anas - 
tasixnn J fartyrem, in prose ; I'ht; rbv iv B\a\epi'att; 
vaui\In Templum Deipirce Constant inopoli in Blache mis 
situm ; a short poem in iambic verse. Some works 
known or asserted to be extant have been ascribed to 
George, but without sufficient reason. Usher and oth- 
ers have conjectured that he was the compiler of the 
Ckronicon Paschale, but Qtiereius refutes the supposi- 
tion. Le Long speaks of Greek commentaries on the 
epistles of Paul by George of Pisidia as being extant 
in the Imperial Library at Vienna, but they are not 
noticed in the catalogues of Lambeeius and Reimau- 
nus : and it is probable that Le Long’s statement is 
erroneous. Some persons have improperly confound- 
ed George of Pisidia with George of Nicomedia, who 
lived two centuries later ; and Cave erroneously makes 
George of Pisidia archbishop of Nicomedia, although 
he correctly fixes the time in which he lived. The 
versification of George is correct and elegant, and in- 
harmonious verses are very rare. lie was much ad- 
mired by the later Hyzantine uniters, and was very 
commonly compared with Euripides, to whom some 
did not hesitate to prefer him. But his poems, how- 
ever polished, are frequently dull, though in the Ilex- 
a'emeron there are some passages of a more elevated 
character. The Ilexaemeron and De Vanitate 1 V/rp, 
with such fragments as had been collected, w ith a Lat- 
in version by Fred. Morel, were first published in 4to, 
Paris, 1584. Some copies of the edition have the date 
1585 in the title-page. The Uexarmeron w’as also pub- 
lished by Brunellus, as a work of Cyril of Alexandria, 
together with some poems of Gregory Nazianzen and 
other pieces (Pome, 1590, 8vo). Both pieces, with the 
fragments, were reprinted in the appendix to the Bib- 
liotheca Pat rum of La Bigne (Paris, 1(524, fol.), and with 
the version of Morel, and one or tw’o additional frag- 
ments, in the Paris edition of the Bibliotheca Patrum 
(1654, fol.), xiv, 389, etc. The Latin version of Morel 
is in the edition of the Bibliotheca (Lyon. 1G77, fol.), 
xii,323, etc. (Quercias, ut sup. ; Fabricius, Bibl. Gr. i, 
185 ; vii, 450, 472, etc. ; viii, 612, 615 ; Cave, /list. Lit. 

i, 583). — Smith, Dictionary of Gr. and Rom. Biography , 

ii, 253, 254. 

Georgia, or Grusia, formerly an independent 
country of Asia, now included in the Bussian prov- 
inces of Tiflis and Kutais. The name is sometimes 
employed to designate the whole territory possessed 
or claimed by the Russians south of the Caucasus, 
and embracing the districts of Kachetli, Karthli (Kar- 
thnlinia, Karduel), Imereth, Mingrelia, and Guria. In 
this larger sense it has an area of about 28,000 square 
miles, and in 1862 a population of 1,142,611 inhabit- 
ants ; while Georgia proper, embracing the three first- 
named districts, contains only 12,800 square miles and 
577,267 inhabitants. The Georgians are one of that 
numerous group of nations or tribes that inhabit the 
Caucasus, to which Dr. Latham has given the name 
of Dioscurians. They are celebrated for the athletic 
frames of their men and the beauty of their women, 
but their long oppression by the Mohammedans has 
had its effect both upon their intelligence and their 
morality. Of the total population of Georgia, taken 
in the larger sense, 835,830- belong to the Georgian 
race (inclusive of Miiigrelians and Lnzi); the remain- 
der are Turcomanni, Ossetes, Armenians, Jew's, Pus- 


1 sians, and Germans. The Christian population num« 
bers 1,003,791, and the non-Christian 138,820 souls. 
On their language and literature, see the articles 
Georgian Language and Georgian Version. 

The ancient history of Georgia is altogether fabu- 
lous. It submitted to Alexander the Great, but after 
his death was made an independent kingdom. In 
this condition it remained for about twenty-one cen- 
turies. Christianity spread in Georgia aliout the close 
of the 4th century and dislodged the ancient religion, 
which w'as probably kindred to the Mithras service of 
the ancient Persians. In consequence of the profes- 
sion of the Christian faith, Georgia became allied to 
the Byzantine empire, conjointly with which it re- 
sisted the attacks of the Sassanides. More successful 
than the inroads of the Sassanides w’ere those of the 
Arabs, and under the dynasty of the Bagratides, n 
branch of the Armenian dynasty of that name (since 
614), Georgia became a province of the empire of the 
Arabian caliphs, and only the mountainous districts 
ill which the kings of Georgia found a refuge preserved 
a kind of independence. In the 9th century, during 
the decline of the Arabian caliphate, t lie Georgians 
recovered their independence for a short period, but in 
the 10th century they became tributary to the Moham- 
medan dynasties in Persia. Toward the end of the 
10th century they again achieved independence, and 
inaugurated the most brilliant era in Gceorgian his- 
tory; for from this period to the 13th century, when 
they were conquered by the Mongols, Georgia w r as 
governed by a series of able sovereigns, who increased 
J its extent and raised it to great prosperity. Toward 
the end of the 14th century the country was conquered 
by Timour, who w'as driven from it in the beginning 
of the following century by George VII. Alexander 
I, the successor of George V" II, divided the kingdom 
between his three sons. Each of these states was again 
divided, and at one time 26 different princes reigned in 
Georgia. The general history of Georgia now divides 
into tw'o parts: that of the eastern states, Karthli and 
Kachetli ; and that of the western states, including 
Imereth, Mingrelia, and Guria. From the 16th to the 
18th century the eastern states were heavily oppressed 
by Persia, and in 1799, Gregory XI, after many at- 
tempts to establish their independence, resigned the 
states in favor of Paul, emperor of Pussia, and in 1802 
the emperor Alexander proclaimed the territory a Bns- 
sian province. Of the three states forming Western 
Georgia, Guria fell into the hands of Pussia in 1801, 
and formally surrendered itself to that empire by the 
treaty of 1810 ; Mingrelia was virtually added to Rus- 
sia in 1803, and fully incorporated w 4th it in 1868, and 
the state of Imereth toward the close of the 18th cen- 
tury. Thus the whole of Georgia has been brought 
under the dominion of 
Pussia, and has been umt- 
I ed, along with the other 
Transcaucasian posses- 
sions of that country, into 
a general government, 
the head of which unites 
in his own person the 
military and civil pow’- 
ers, and exercises mili- 
tary supremacy over the 
whole of the Caucasus. 

The Georgians were 
represented in the synods 
convened by t he Arme- 
nian patriarch in the 5th 
and 6th centuries, and 
embraced^ the Monophv- 
site faith, and they also 
withdrew from the com- ^ 
in union of the patriarch 
of Constantinople. In the 
latter part of the 6th ccn- 



Mingrclian Monk. 


GEORGIAN LANGUAGE 


813 


GEORGIAN VERSION 


tury they resumed their former ecclesiastical connec- 
tion, and they have since been considered as a part of 
the Greek Church. When Georgia passed into the 
hands of Russia it lost the independence of its nation- 
al Church. The differences between the Russian and 
the Georgian forms of religion being very small, the 
latter became subject to the Synod of Petersburg ; the 
authority of the Georgian catholicos was also transfer- 
red, and a Russian archbishop sent to occupy the see 
of Georgia. Convents and nunneries are abundant, 
and the inmates are all mendicants. Most of the bish- 
ops are rich, but the majority of the priests are both 
very poor and ignorant. The best and fullest informa- 
tion about Georgia is contained in the works of Bros- 
set, / list, ancienne de la Georgie (Petersb. 1840, 2 vols. ; 
Additions, 1851), and JJistoire Mod? me de la Georgie 
(Peters. 1854-57, 3 vols.). — Brockhaus, Convers.-Lcx. ; 
Farrar ; Helyot ,Ordrcs des Relig. (ed. Migne), s. v. Mel- 
chitcs. (A. J. 8.) 

Georgian Language. The Georgian language, 
which is also spoken by the Mingrelians, Lazians, and 
the Suani, belongs to the Iberian family. The chief 
characteristics of it are as follows. Its alphabet con- 
sists of thirty- five letters ; it has no articles; the sub- 
stantives have eight cases and no genders ; the adjec- 
tives, when associated with nouns, are indeclinable, 
but when they stand by themselves are declined ; the 
comparative is formed by the prefix n and the suffix 
si, and cardinals arc obtained by prefixing me to the 
ordinals. It possesses eight conjugations with several 
minor subdivisions, and the different persons arc indi- 
cated by terminations and personal prefixes; it has 
several forms for the pneterite and the future tenses, 
and only one form for the present tense; three modes, 
viz. indicative, imperative, and the participle, and 
supplies the place of the infinitive by a verbal noun; 
it has postpositions governing different cases, in addi- 
tion to the prepositions, and can multiply verbs to 
any extent by the terminations eleba and ola , form ab- 
stracts from adjectives by the terminations oba and 
eba, as well as active personal nouns, adjectives — both 
active and passive — and diminutives, by various ter- 
minations and prefixes, and its construction allows 
many liberties. From the venerable old Georgian 
language a dialect developed itself, in the course of 
time, by the introduction into it of many Armenian, 
Greek, Turkish, and other foreign words, and by the 
vitiation of the pronunciation and spelling of many 
expressions. The two dialects have distinct alpha- 
bets: the alphabet in which the old Georgian is writ- 
ten is called Kuzuri , i. e.the sacred, and consists of the 
letters invented by Miesrob; and the alphabet of the 
modern Georgian is called Kedindi , and is supposed to 
have been invented by the Georgians themselves in 
the 14th century. The old language is the ecclesias- 
tical or literary, and is employed in all sacred and lit- 
erary writings, while the modern is the civil dialect, 
or the dialect of common life ( lingua vulgaris). Com- 
pare Ersch und Gruber's Encgklopadie, s. v. Georgier, 
]>. 192; Eichhorn, Allgemeine Bibliothek der biblischen 
L.'teratur , i, 15G sq. — Kitto, s. v. 

Georgian Version. This is one of the oldest 
versions of the Bible extant. 

I. Xa me, Bate, a/ul Source of this Version. — The 
Georgians call their Bible by different names — 1. Bib- 
bia , i. e. the Bible : 2. Zminda Zerili , the holy Scrip- 
ture; 3. Samkto Zerili. the divine Scriptures; 4. Zigh- 
ni Zuelisa da akalio aghlkmisa, the books of the 0. and 
N. T. ; and, 5. Babadeba, Genesis, after the first book 
of the Bible. The version is supposed to have been 
made about A. I). 570, when the Georgians, stimulated 
by the example of the Armenians [see Armenian 
Version], sent young men of talent to Greece to 
study the Greek language, who, on their return, trans- 
lated the Scriptures and liturgical books of the Greek 
Church. The translation of the 0. T. is made from the 


Sept., and of the N. T. from Greek MSS. of the Con- 
stantinopolitan family, and is composed in the ecclesi- 
astical or ancient dialect. See Georgian Language. 

II. Text and Editions of the Version. — This venera- 
ble version has shared in all the troubles to which 
Georgia has been subject. The entire books of Mac- 
cabees and Ecdesiasticus were lost in the many revo- 
lutions of the country, passages disappeared from dif- 
ferent parts of the volume, and the whole text got 
into a state of confusion. It was only in the begin- 
ning of the 18th century that prince Vaktangh pub- 
lished at Tiflis the Psalms, the Prophets, and the New 
Testament, and split up the text into chapters and 
verses. Shortly after, prince Arcil, uncle of prince 
Vaktangh, who fled from Kartel to Russia, undertook 
a revision of this version, making it conformable to 
the Russian translation as it then was, and divided it 
only into chapters, because the Russian translation 
was divided into chapters only. But this prince only 
lived to cairy through the revision from Genesis to 
the Prophets, and to translate from the Russian Bible 
the lost books of Maccabees and Ecdesiasticus. Ilis 
son, prince Vakuset, v r as, however, induced by the 
solicitations of his brother, prince Bacliar, and the 
Georgian clergy resident in Russia, to continue the 
work of revision, lie made the text conform still 
more to the Russian translation, newly revised accord- 
ing to the command of Teter the Great, supplied from 
this translation all the passages which were wanting 
in the Georgian version, made also the portions which 
his father had published conformable to this transla- 
tion, and divided the whole into chapters and verses. 
He had Georgian types east at Moscow, and at once 
began printing in that city; the correction of the press 
he committed to four native Georgians, and the first 
edition of the entire Georgian Bible appeared in 1743, 
fob, prince Bacliar, brother of the editor, defraying the 
entire expense. From this edition the Moscow Bible 
Society reprinted the N. T. in 1810, 4to, under the su- 
perintendence of the Georgian metropolitan Ion and of 
archbishop l’afnut, with types cast from the very ma- 
trices which had been used for the former edition, and 
which had escaped the conflagration of the city at the 
time of Napoleon’s invasion. Another edition was 
published in 1818, in the civil character, 4to. It is said 
that there have appeared more recent editions of va- 
rious portions of this version both at Tiflis and in Rus- 
sia, but there is no particular account of them. 

III. Critical Value of the Version. — The value of 
this version, in a critical point of view, lias been great- 
ly impaired by the corruptions which it has suffered 
during the centuries of political changes to which the 
country lias been exposed, and especially by the en- 
deavor of its editors to make it conform to the Russian 
translation. It must not, however, be supposed that 
its value is entirely gone. Both Tischendorf (A”. T. 
Grcec. 2d ed. praef. p. lxxviii) and Mr. Malan regard it 
as a good auxiliary to the criticism of the Greek text. 
Indeed, Mr. Malan, who has published an English 
translation of the Georgian version of John's Gospel, 
goes so far as to say that “it differs from the Sla- 
vonic in many places in which it might be expected to 
agree, it has a character of its own, is a faithful ver- 
sion, and valuable for criticism” (The Gospel according 
to St. John, translated from the eleven oldest Versions , 
etc., by the Rev. S. C. Malan, M.A., Loud. 18G2, p. 5x, 
note 3). 

IV. Literature. — A very interesting treatise on this 
version, containing a brief account of its history and 
publication, from the preface of prince Vaktangh, was 
communicated by professor Adler, of Copenhagen, to 
Eichhorn, who published it in his Allgemeine Bibliothek 
der biblischen Literatur , i, 153 sq., and afterwards re- 
printed it in his Einleitung in eles Alte Testament , vol. 
ii, sec. 318, b. etc. Dr. Henderson, who had visited 
both Georgia and Russia, could do no more in his Bib - 
lical Researches and Travels in Russia (London, 1S2G, p. 


GEORGIUS SYNCELLUS 


814 


GERAR 


518, etc.) than to give a literal translation of this ac- 
count. A valuable book has also been published by 
Franz Carl Alter, entit’e 1 Ceber Ge trgianische Literu- 
tur (Wien, 1798), in which is given an extensive colla- 
tion of the various readings from both the O. and N. 
T. — Ivitto, s. v. 

Georgius Syncellus, termed also “Abbas and 
Monachus,” lived in the hitter part of the 8th and be- 
ginning of the 9th century. lie obtained his distin- 
guishing epithet from having been syncellus or per- 
sonal attendant of Tarasius, patriarch of Constantino- 
ple, who died A.D. 80G. Theophanes, who was his 
friend, describes him as a man of talent and learning, 
especially well versed in chronographical and histor- 
ical subjects, which he had studied very deeply. He 
died in “the orthodox faith,” without completing his 
principal (and, indeed, only known) work, the comple- 
tion of which he strongly urged, as his dying request, 
upon his friend Theophanes. lie is the author of a 
chronographv or chronicle, the title of which in full is 
as follows : 'EfcAoy/) A oovoypa^ia^ avvraytioa vtto 
Fftapyioi; Mom\o5 SnyjeaAAou ytyovoroQ ’Vctpctaiov 
J l n -or (/p.yoo K<ur<7rurrN'07rd\£<0£ citto ’Ac dp ptypi \ 
AioK\))Tiavov, A select Chronicle, drawn up by Georye I 
the Monk, Syncellus of Sarasivs, Patriarch of Constan- j 
tinople, f rom Adam to Diocletian. The author states 
that he intended to bring his work down to A.D. 800; 
but, as already stated, he was cut off by death, and the 
work only comes down to the accession of Diocletian, 
A.D. 284. The work is included in the various edi- ! 
tions of the Jlyzantine writers. Goar, the Parisian 
editor, contended that we have the work of Syncellus 
in a complete form, but the contrary opinion seems 
to be the better founded. Possevino, Vossius, and 
others have identified Syncellus with Georgius Har- 
martolus; but Allatius has shown that this identifica- 
tion is erroneous. Syncellus has transcribed verbatim 
a considerable part of the Chronieon of Eusebius, so 
that his work has been employed to restore or com- 
plete the Greek text of the Chronieon. The Chrono- 
gruphia of Theophanes, which extends from A.D. 285 
to A.D. 813, may be regarded as a continuation of that 
of Syncellus, and completes the author’s original de- 
sign. The Bonn edition of Syncellus is edited by AY. 
Dindorf, and, with the brief Chronographia of Niceph- 
orns of Constantinople, occupies 2 vols. 8vo, 1829. 
(Theophanes, Prooemhim ad chronog. ; Cedren. Com- 
pend. sub. init. ; Allatius, Ibid. p. 24; Fabricius, Bibl. 
Gr. vii, 457 ; Cave, Ilist. Lit. i, 641). — Smith, Dictionary 
of Gr. and Pom. Biography , ii, 254. See Syncellus. 
Geplien. See Vine. 

Gephrus (r^poTc, prob. a Grascized form of the 
Heb. “is 3, a village; see Capua r), a town mentioned 
by Polybius (v, 70, 12) as captured by Antiochus along 
with Pella and Camus (Gam on), and therefore situated 
in the same vicinity east of the Jordan (Belaud. Pa- 
lost. p. 804); perhaps the present Kef r- A wan, a short 
distance N.E. of Kefr-Abil (Bobinson, Later Research- 
es, p. 318). 

Ge'ra (lleb. Gera', a grain [see Geraii] ; 
Sept. Ei/pd), the name of at least three Benjamites. 

1. The son of Bela and grandson of Benjamin (1 
C hron. viii, 3); probably the same with the one men- 
tioned (with some confusion) in verses 5, 7, unless one 
of these be identical with No. 2 below. In Gen. xlvi, 
21. he is given as if directly the son of Benjamin; and 
lie there appears among the descendants of Jacob, at 
the time of that patriarch’s removal to Egypt, B.C. 
1871. See Jacob. “Gera is not mentioned in the 
list of Benjamite families in Numb, xxvi, 38-40, of 
which a very obvious explanation is that at that time 
he was not the head of a separate family, Imt was in- 
cluded among the B daites ;Jt being a matter cf neces- 
sity that some of Bela’s sons should be so included, 
otherwise there could be no family of Belaitcs at all. 


To the remarks made under Becher should be added 
that the great destruction of the Benjamites recorded 
in Judg. xx may account for the introduction of so 
many new names in the later Benjamite lists of 1 
Chron. vii and viii, of which several seem to be wom- 
en’s names’’ (Smith). See Benjamin. In 1 Chron. 
vii, 7, l zziel occupies the same position as Gera else- 
where in the genealogy. See Bela. 

2. The father (or ancestor) of Eliud the judge (Judg. 
iii, 15); compare 1 Chron. viii, 5, 7 ; possibly identical 
with No. 1 above. B.C. ante 1509. See Eiiud. 

3. The father (or ancestor) of Shimei, which latter 
so grossly abused David (2 Sam. xvi, 5; xix, 1G, 18; 
1 Kings ii, 8) ; thought by some to be identical with 
both the foregoing. B.C. ante 1023. See Shimei. 

Gerah (i~Pi., gerah' , a berry or granule [compare 
English “ barley-corn” and “grain” as measure and 
weight] ; Sept. u/loAof, Vulgate obolus ), the smallest 
weight, and likewise the smallest piece of money 
among the Hebrews, equivalent to the twentieth part 
of a shekel (Exod. xxx, 13; Lev', xxvii, 25; Numb, 
iii, 47 ; xviii, 1G ; Ezek. xlv, 12). It would therefore 
weigh 13 T \, Paris grains, and be worth about 3 cents. 
The same Hebrew word also signifies cud , as being a 
round mass. It has been supposed by many that the 
gerah was so called from the fact that some kernel, as 
of pepper or barley, or perhaps the seeds of the carob- 
trec (ice(idrioi’) may have been originally used for this 
weight, but it would be equal in weight to 4 or 5 beans 
of the carob, and according to the Babbins, it weighed 
as much as 1G grains of barley. — Gesenius. See Me- 

TROLOGY. 

Gsrando, Joseph Marie, Baron De, a french 
statesman and philosophical writer, was born at Lyons 
February 29, 1772, and was educated for the priest- 
hood. During the Revolution he served in the French 
army, and, under Napoleon, he tilled various high civil 
offices. lie was made a French peer in 1837. and died 
at Paris November 10, 1842. He is mentioned here 
for his philosophical and ethical writings. Having 
| sent an article to the French Academy in 1799, which 
received a prize, he enlarged it into a treatise entitled 
Des Signes et de Vart de penser (1800, 4 vols. 8vo). This 
was followed by De la Generation des connaissances hu- 
maines (1802, Svo), which was crowned by the Berlin 
Academy. 1 1 is most important work is his Ilistoire 
complete des systemes de Philosophic considercs r chit i ce- 
ment aux principes des connaissances humaines (1803, 3 
vols ; 3d ed. is 17-8, 4 vols. 8vo) :• — Du perjectiemnement 
moral on de C education de soi-meme (1824; 1832, 2 vols.), 
which received the Montyon prize from the French 
Academy, and was translated into English and pub- 
lished under the title Self .education (Boston, 18G0, 

, 12mo). De Gerando wrote many works on economical 
and political science. — lloefer, Xouv. Biogr. Generate , 
xx. 143. 

Ge'rar (Heb. Gerar ’, according to Simonis 
a lodging-pl- tee, according to others from the Arabic 
water-pots, but more prob. with Furst, a region , as be- 
ing the centre of a distinct Philistine kingdom ; Sept, 
and Josephus [rd] Pspapa), a very ancient town and 
district on the southernmost borders of Palestine, in 
the country of the Philistines, and not far from Gaza. 
It was visited by Abraham after the destruction of 
Sodom (Gen. xx, 1), and by Isaac when there was a 
dearth in the rest of Canaan (Gen. xxvi, 1). The in- 
tercourse, differences, and alliances of the Hebrew fa- 
thers with the king and people of Gerar form a very 
curious and interesting portion of patriarchal history 
(Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 350). See Isaac. In 
Genesis the people are spoken of as Philistines ; but 
their habits appear, in that early stage, more pastoral 
than they subsequently were. Yet they arc even then 
warlike, since Abimeleeh had “a captain of the host,” 
who appears from his fixed title, “ Phichol,” like that 


GERARD 


815 


GERASA 


of the king, “Abimelech,” to he a permanent officer 
(comp. Gen. xxi, 32 ; xxvi, 2G ; and Psa. xxxiv, title). 
See Auimelech. The local description, xxi, 1, “be- 
tween Kadesh and Shur,” is probably meant to indi- 
cate the limits within which these pastoral Philistines, 
whose chief seat was then Gerar, ranged, although it 
would by no means follow that their territory em- 
braced all the interval between those cities. It must 
have trenched on the “south” or “south country” of 
later Palestine. From a comparison of xxi, 32 with 
xxvi, 23, 20, Beersheba would seem to be just on the 
verge of this territory, and perhaps to be its limit to- 
wards the N.E. For its southern boundary, though 
very uncertain, none is more probable than the wadys 
El-Arish (“ River of Egypt”) and El-’Ain ; south of 
which the neighboring “ wilderness of Faran” (xx, 15 ; 
xxi, 22, 34) may probably be reckoned to begin. Isaac 
was most probably born in Gerar. The great crops i 
which he subsequently raised attest the fertility of the I 
soil, which, lying in the maritime plain, still contains 
«ome of the best ground in Palestine (xxi, 2 ; xxvi, 
12). It was still an important place in later times, as 
we may gather from 1 Chron. xiv, 13, 14. According 
to the ancient accounts, Gerar lay in or near a valley 
(“the valley of Gerar,” Gen. xxvi, 17 ; comp. 1 Sam. 
xv, 5), which appears to be no other than the great 
wady Sheriah (or one of the branches of it) that comes 
down from Beersheba; besides, we know that it was 
in the land of the Philistines, and that it was not far 
from Beersheba when Isaac resided there (Gen. xxvi, 
1,20, 23; 20-33; comp, .xx, 1). The name continued | 
to exist (perhaps as a matter of tradition) for several 
centuries after the Christian a?ra. Eusebius and Je- , 
rome ( Onomust . s. v. Gerar) place it twenty-five Ro- 
man miles southward from Eleutheropolis ; and Sozo- j 
men {Hist. Eccles. vi, 32; ix, 17) reports that a large 
and celebrated monastery stood there, near a winter 
torrent. The abbot Sil vaults resided there towards 
the end of the 4th centur} r , and the name of Marcion, 
bishop of Gerar, appears among the signatures of the 
Council of Chalcedon in A.D.451. In the Talmudical 
writings the district is termed Gerarki (Schwarz, Pal- 
estine, p. 109). The name seems to have been after- 
wards lost, and Dr. Robinson (. Researches , i, 279 ; ii, 
383) was unable to discover any traces of it in the lo- 
cality ; but he unnecessarily disparages the claims of 
w'ady El-Jerur , which runs into the wady El-Arish at 
Jebel el-FIelal, to be regarded as a southernmost trace 
of the ancient kingdom {Jour. Sac. Lit. July, 1800, p. 
309-319). It is possible that the wells mentioned by 
him as lying in the shallow wady EI-Knsaimeh, in the 
same neighborhood (i, 280), may represent those digged 
by Abraham and reopened by Isaac (Gen. xxvi, 18-22). 
— Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. J. Rowlands, in travelling 
from Gaza to Khulassah, came after 3 hours’ march to 
a broad, deep wady, Jurf el-Gerar , a little below its 
junction with a branch- valley from w r ady Sheriah. 
Near this junction are ruins called Khurbet el-Gerar 
(Williams, Holy City , 1845, App. p. 488-492), which he 
identifies with Gerar. This account Van de Velde 
heard confirmed by the people of Gaza, with a slight 
modification {Narrative, ii, 183). There are no ruins 
yet standing, but scattered stones which appear to have 
been once used in buildings ; and in the absence of old 
wells, it would seem as if the ancient city had been 
supplied from some spring. Stewart’s suggestion of 
the ruins of El- A bdeh {Tent and Khan, p. 207) is out 
of the question (Van de Velde, Memoir , p. 314). In 1 
Chron. iv, 39, the Sept, substitutes Gerar (rtpopa) for 
Gedor (q. v.). 

Gerard, Alexander, an eminent Scotch divine, 
was born Feb. 22,1728, at Garioeh, in Aberdeenshire, 
and was educated at Marischal College and the Uni- 
versity of Edinburgh. In 1750 he succeeded l’ordyce 
as professor of moral philosophy at Marischal College, 
and in 1700 w r as appointed divinity professor. In 1771 
he obtained the theological professorship at King’s 


College, Aberdeen. He died in 1795. lie w'rote (1.) 
An Essay on Taste (1759, 8vo; enlarged edition, 1780). 
This work obtained the prize of a gold medal offered 
by the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh. (2.) An 
Essay on Genius (bond. 1707, 8vo) : — (3.) Sermons (Lou- 
don, 1780, 1782, 2 vols. 8vo): — (I.) Dissertations on the 
Genius and Evidences of Christianity (Loud. 1700, 8vo) : 
— (5.) The Pastoral Care, edited by his son (Loud. 1799, 
8vo). 

Gerard, Gilbert, D.D., son of Alexander Gerard, 
was born and educated at Aberdeen. He was for 
some time pastor of the English church at Amsterdam, 
and afterwards professor of Greek in King’s College, 
Aberdeen, and in 1775 of divinity. He died in 1815. 
His “ Institutes” are valuable for the numerous refer- 
ences to authorities which they contain, and are very 
scarce. The greater part of the first edition w as lost 
at sea. Ilis w ritings are, Institutes of Biblical Cnti- 
cism (Edinb. 1808, 2d edit. 8vo) : — Compendious View of 
the Evidences of natural and revealed Religion (Loudon, 
1828, 8vo). — Darling. 

Gerard, Thom, Turn, Tunc, or Tenque, found- 
er and first grand master of the order of St. John of Jeru- 
salem, w'as horn about 1040, on the isle of Martigues, 
on the coast of Provence. While Jerusalem was in the 
hands of the Saracens, some merchants of Amalfi ob- 
tained permission from the sultan of Egj'pt and Syria, 
in 1050, to erect a Benedictine monastery near the 
holy sepulchre, for the convenience of the pilgrims. 
It w'as called Sainte Marie la Latine. Among others, 
Gerard arrived to pay his devotions, and he acquired 
a high character for his piety and prudence. The 
number of pilgrims increased every year, enriching the 
treasury of the monastery. In 1080 the abbot, built a 
hospital for the reception of poor and sick pilgrims, the 
management of wdiich he gave to Gerard. Ihe chapel 
of that hospital was consecrated to St.John, because 
of a tradition among the inhabitants of Jerusalem that 
Zacliarias, the father of St.John, had lived on the spot 
where it was built. After the conquest of Jerusalem 
by Godfrey of Bouillon, Gerard projected a new relig- 
ious order, in which the ecclesiastical and military 
characters were to he blended. This design he began 
to carry out in the year 1100, when numbers associ- 
ated with him under the denomination of “Hospital- 
lers of St. John of Jerusalem,” “ who, besides the three 
vow r s of chastity, poverty, and obedience, took a par- 
ticular vow to devote themselves to the relief of all 
Christians in distress. This order, and the rules drawn 
up for its government, were approved and confirmed 
by pope Paschal 1 1, who, by a bull wdiich he issued, 
granted it various considerable privileges, and recog- 
nised Gerard as the first grand master. Gerard died 
in the year 1120. Such was the commencement of 
that order which in succeeding times became so cele- 
brated in history, when its members were commonly 
known by the name of knights of Rhodes, and after- 
wards by that of knights of Malta.” — Hook, Eccles. 
Biog. v, 298 ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gaierale, xx, 149. 

Gerard or Gerhard Groot. See Grout, Ger- 
hard. 

Gerasa ([?/] Tipaaa, prob. of Ileb. origin), a cele- 
brated city on the eastern borders of Peraia (Josephus, 
War, iii, 3, 3), placed by some in the province of Coe.le- 
Syria and region of Decapolis (Steph. s. v.), by oth- 
ers in Arabia (Epiph. adv. liar. ; Origen, in Johan.'). 
It is doubtless the Gelasa assigned by Pliny (v, 18) to 
the Decapolis. These various statements do not arise 
from any doubts as to the locality of the city, hut from 
the ill-defined boundaries of the provinces mentioned. 
In the Roman age no city of Palestine was better 
known than Gerasa (Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v.). 
It lay on elevated ground, according to Ptolemy, in 
68° if/ = 31° 45' (Reland, ralwst. p. 459), wdio distin- 
guishes it from the Gerassa (P iparroa) of Arabia Pe- 
trrea {ib. p. 4G3). It is not mentioned in the O. T., 


GERASA 


816 


GERAULD 


nor in the New, unless in the reading Gerasene (q. v.) 
at Matt, vii, 28. It is not known when or by whom 
Gerasa was founded. Its inhabitants were mostly 
heathen (Josephus, War, iii, 3, a ; comp, iv, 0, 1 ; ii, 18, 
5 ; Ant. xiii, 15, 5). It is lirst. mentioned by Josephus 
as having been captured by Alexander Jannaeus (15. C. 
cir. 85), who was actuated by a desire of gaining a 
large treasure (Josephus, II or, i, 4, 8; Ant. viii, 2, 3). 
That king died near it while besieging Regaba (Ant. 
xv, 5). Before the place had time to recover from this 
capture, it was included among the number of those 
cities which were burnt by the enraged Jews in their 
vengeance on the Syrians, and on the Homan power 
generally, for the massacre of a number of their nation 
at Caisarea (Josephus, II<ir, ii, IS, 1). A terrible re- 
venge was taken by other cities, but Gerasa is honor- 
ably excepted (Bur, ii, 18, 5). it had scarcely recov- 
ered from this calamity when the emperor Vespasian 
dispatched Annins, his general, to capture it. Anni- 
ns, having carried the city at the lirst assault, put to 
the sword one thousand of the youth who had not ef- 
fected their escape, enslaved their families, and plun- 
dered and fired their dwellings. It appears to have 
been nearly a century subsequent to this period that 
Gerasa attained its greatest prosperity, and was adorn- 
ed with those monuments which give it a place among 
the proudest cities of Syria. History tells us nothing 
of this, but the fragments of inscriptions found among 
its mined palaces and temples show that it is indebted 
for its architectural splendor to the age and genius of 
the Antonines (A.D. 138-80). It subsequently became 
the seat of a bishopric. Baldwin II of Jerusalem de- 
stroyed its castle in the year 1T22 (Will. Tyr. p. 825; 
Jlistor. Ilierosol. p. 015). This was the native place 
of Nicomachus Gerasenus. Coins of Gerasa may be 
seen in Eckhel (A Ion. Vet. iii, 350). There is no evi- 
dence that th j city was ever occupied by the Saracens. 
There are no traces of their architecture — no mosques, 
no inscriptions, no reconstruction of old edifices, such 
as are found in most other great cities in Syria. All 
here is Roman, or at least ante-lslamic ; every struc- 
ture remains as the hand of the destroyer or the earth- 
quake shock left it, ruinous and deserted. It is now 
called Jerash. Its ruins were first discovered by Seet- 
zen (i, 388 sq.), and have often been subsequently vis- 
ited. They are by far the most beautiful and exten- 
sive east of the Jordan. They are situated on both 
sides of a shallow valley that runs from north to south 
through a high undulating plain, and falls into the 
Ztirka (the ancient Jabbok) at the distance of about 
five miles. A little rivulet, thickly fringed with ole- 
ander, winds through the valley, giving life and beau- 
ty to the deserted city. The first view' of the ruins is 
very striking, and such as have enjoyed it will not 


soon forget the impression made upon the mind. The 
long colonnade running through the centre of the city, 
terminating at one end in the graceful circle of the fo- 
rum ; the groups of columns clustered here and there 
round the crumbling w'alls of the temples ; the heavy 
masses of masonry that distinguish the positions of the 
great theatres; and the vast field of shapeless ruins 
rising gradually from the green banks of the rivulet 
to the battlemented heights on each side — all combine 
in forming a picture such as is rarely equalled. The 
form of the city is an irregular square, each side meas- 
uring nearly a mile. It w r as surrounded by a strong 
wall, a large portion of which, with its flanking towers 
at intervals, is in a good state of preservation. Three 
gateways are still nearly perfect, and within the city 
upwards of two hundred and thirty columns remain on 
their pedestals. A description of them may be found 
in Burckhardt’s Syria , p. 252-G4 ; also in those of Lord 
Lindsay and others, which are well condensed in Kel- 
ley’s Syria , p. 448 sq. See also Buckingham’s Pales- 
tine, p. 405; Keith, Evidence of Prophecy (3Gth ed.). — 
Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. 

Gerasene (lVoutri/i'dr), an inhabitant of Gerasa (q. 
v.). Several MSS. read VepaotjvGjv instead of ITpyt- 
in Matt, viii, 28 ; but the city of Gerasa lay too 
far from the Sea of Tiberias to admit the possibility of 
the miracles having been wrought ill its vicinity. If 
the reading Vepacnjinor be the true one, the \d>na, “dis- 
trict,” must then have been very large, including Ga- 
dara and its environs ; and Matthew thus uses a broad- 
er appellation, where Mark and Luke use a more spe- 
cific one. This is not impossible, as Jerome (ad Obad.) 
states that Gilead w f as in his day called Gerasa, and 
Origen affirms that rtpaatjviov was the ancient read- 
ing (Opp. iv, 140). — Smith, s. v. See Gadaua. The 
nature of Origen’s argument makes this statement 
very doubtful. It looks like a hold hypothesis to get 
over a difficulty (see Alford, ad loc.). The rival Ger- 
gesa, however, is also mentioned by Eusebius and Je- 
rome. The latter thus writes : “ Hodieque super mon- 
tem viculus demonstratur juxta stagnum Tyberiadis 
in quod poroi praecipitati sunt” (O nomast. s. v.). Thom- 
son thinks he has discovered Gergesa as a ruin called 
Kersa or Gersa , on the bank of wady Semak, east of 
the lake. He describes it as “ within a few' rods of 
the shore, and an immense mountain rises directly 
above it, in which are ancient tombs. . . . The lake 
is so near the base of the mountain, that the swine 
rushing madly down it could not stop, but would be 
hurried on into the water and drowned" (Land and 
Book , ii, 34-38). It is uncertain which reading has 
tiie highest authority, and consequently these conjec- 
tures are very doubtful (see, however, Ellicott's Lec- 
tures on the Life of our Lord , p. 188, note ; Van de 
Velde, Memoir , p. 311 ; Reland, 
p. 502, 807). See Gergesene. 

Gerauld, Htgues, a 
French priest of evil name in 
the 13th cent., first mentioned 
as chaplain of pope Clement V. 
He afterwards became arch- 
deacon of Eu, in the diocese of 
Rouen. Clement V finally ap- 
pointed him bishop of Cahors, 
in consideration, it is said, of a 
large sum of money. He soon, 
how'ever, took advantage of his 
position to despoil the inhab- 
itants of his diocese, and pope 
John XXII appointed the bish- 
ops of Riez and Arras to inves* 
tigate the charges against Ge- 
rauld. Accused of simony, of 
ingratitude towards the see of 
Rome, of cruelty to those who 
appealed from his decisions, of 
spoliation, and of criminal con* 



GERBAIS 


817 


GERDIL 


nection with women, he was condemned to prison for 
life. An author of that period, Bernard Guidonis, says 
that Gerauld, after being stripped of the insignia of his 
office, was condemned to be dragged on the public high- 
way, Hayed in some parts, and finally burned alive. 
The execution took place in July, 1317. See liaynal- 
dus anno 1317; Martene, Veterum Scriptorum, t. v, p. 
174 ; Bzovius, Num. 16 ; Duchesne, Ilistoire. des Curdi- 
iiaux frangais, t. ii, p. 290. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, xx, 185. 

Gerbais, Jean, doctor of the Sorbonne, was born 
at Rupois in 1629, and became professor of rhetoric at 
the royal college of Paris, 1662, and principal of the 
college of Rheims, wdiere he died in 1699. lie was 
commissioned by the French clergy to publish the De- 
cisions touckant les Reguliers (decreed in the assembly 
of 1645), with Hallier’s notes. He wrote, 1 . Dc Causis 
Majoribus (1679, 4to), in which lie ably supports the 
liberties of the Galliean Church, and maintains that 
episcopal causes ought to be first judged by the metro- 
politan, and the bishops in his province ; Innocent XI 
condemned this work in 1680:— 2. Traite du Pouvoir 
de L'e'glise et des Princes sur les empechcmens du Mai'- 
Huge (A Treatise on the authority of Kings over the 
liinderances to Marriage, 1690, 4to) : — 3. Lettres touch- 
ant le Pecate des Religieux (1698, 12mo) 4. A transla- 
tion of the treatise by Panormus on the Council of Baste 
(8vo) : — 5. Lettre sur la Comedie (12mo) : — 6. Leltre sur 
les Domras et le Luxe des Habits des Femmes. — Dupin, 
Eccles. Writers, cent, xvii ; Ilook, Ecctes. Biog. v, 299; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xx, 186 ; Nieeron, Me- 
moires, tom. xiv. 

Gerberon, Gabriel, an indefatigable Benedictine 
author, was born at St. Calais, in the province of Maine, 
France, Aug. 12, 1628. He became a Benedictine in 
the congregation of St. Maur in 1649. After teaching 
theology with reputation for several years, lie declared 
himself in favor of Jansenism, and for this he was or- 
dered to be arrested in 1682 by Louis XIV. lie es- 
caped to Holland, and in 1703 was seized by the bishop 
of Mechlin and imprisoned at Amiens, and afterwards 
at Vincennes, for no crime but following strictly the 
Augustinian theory of grace, lie died at the abbey 
of St. Denis March 29,1711. His chief work is the 
Ilistoire Generate du Janscnisme (General History of 
Jansenism, Amsterd. 1703, 3 vols. 12mo), but he wrote 
very largely also on the Jansenist and other contro- 
versies. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 31 ; Ilook, Ecctes. 
Biog. v, 299 ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gener. xx, 194 sq. 

Gerbert. See Sylvester II, Pope. 

Gerbert, Martin, baron of Hornan and Benedic- 
tine abbot of St. Blasien, one of the most learned Roman 
Catholic prelates of the last century, was born at llorb, 
on the Neckar, Aug. 13, 1720. He was educated at the 
Jesuits’ college in Freiburg, and at the cloister of St. 
Blasien, where he became priest in 1744, and abbot in 
1764. He enlarged his mind by travel and varied cul- 
ture, and his works bear every mark of industry and 
learning. He died May 3, 1793. His principal works 
are Ilistoria nigree sylvce ord.St. Benedicts (Colon. 1783- 
88, 3 vols. 4to) : — Principia theoolgiec (St. Blasien, 1757 
-59, 7 vols.): — Theologia Vetus el Nova circa Pnesen- 
tiam Christi in Eucharistia (Freiburg, 1756, 12mo) : — 
Monumenta Veteris LiturgUe Alemannicce, ex antiquis 
MSS. colleeta et digesta (St. Blasien, 1777-79, 4to) : — 
De Cantu et Music d Sacra a primn Ecclesice JEtute usque 
ad presens Tempus (1774, 2 vols.). Gerbert divided 
his history of church music into three parts: the first 
ends at the pontificate of St. Gregory ; the second goes 
as far as the fifteenth century; and the third to his 
own time. In 1784 he published a work of more im- 
portance, under the title of Scriptores Ecclesiastici de 
Musicd Sacra, potissimum ex variis Italia’, Gallice, et 
Germaniai Codicibus collecti (3 vols. 4to). This is a col- 
lection of all the ancient authors who have written on 
music, from the 3d century to the invention of print- 
III.— F F F 


ing, and whose works had remained in manuscript.— 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 33 ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. vol. 
v. ; Choron, Dictionnaire des Musicitns ; Hoefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, xx, 198 sq. 

Gerbillon, Jean Francois, a French Jesuit mis- 
sionary to China, was born at Verdun Jan. 11, 1634. 
He studied at Nancy under the Jesuits, and was, with 
five others, sent as missionary to China, where he 
arrived March 25, 1686. The missionaries at once 
sought an audience from the emperor, who refused to 
admit the new religion, on the ground that as the sects 
of Fo, Tao-sse, the Lamas, and the Ha-changs taught 
men to do good and avoid evil, there was no need of a 
fourth for the same purpose, which would only lead to 
doctrinal disputes. Yet, by special edict, he retained 
at his court the missionaries Gerbillon, Pereira, and 
Bouvet, with permission to practice the religion, but 
not to teach it. He commanded them to learn the 
Chinese and other dialects, and sent them on several 
diplomatic missions. In 1692 Christian worship was 
finall} r permitted in China ; but Gerbillon’s attempts 
to introduce the Roman Catholic religion, and to open 
the country to European commerce, failed through the 
jealousy of the divers other orders of Roman mission- 
aries. He was for some time rector of the French 
College of China, and died at Pekin March 25, 1707. 
lie wrote Elements of Geometry in Chinese and Tartar 
(Pekin): — Theoretical and Practical Geometry, in the 
same languages, and published also at Pekin : — Obser- 
vations Mstoriques sur la grande Tartarie (in Du Halde’s 
Description de la Chine, t. xxxiii) : — Relation de huit 
Voyages en Tartarie (in Du Halde). lie is also con- 
sidered by some as the author of the Elementu Lingua 3 
Tartaricce, which others attribute to the missionaries 
Couplet or Bouvet. See Lettres telifi antes, tom. xviii ; 
Hist, gener. des Voyage*, t. vii and viii. — Hoefer, Nouv. 

| Biog. Generate, xx, 203 sq. 

Gerdes, Daniel, a learned German divine, and 
member of the Berlin Academy, was born at Bremen 
April 19,1698. He took his doctor’s degree at Utrecht, 
after which (1726) he became professor of theology 
and ecclesiastical history at Duisburg. He remo\ r ed 
to Groningen in 1735, and died Feb. 11, 1765. His 
works are accurate, and of great utility for the history 
of the Reformation. Among them are Ilistoria Refor- 
maiionis , she Introductio in historiam evangel', i sacido 
xvi passim per Europam renovati, etc. (Gron. 1744-52, 
4 vols. 4to) : — Florilegium historico-cnticum librorum 
variomm (Gron. 1763, 8vo) : — Meletcmata Sacra (Gron. 
1759, 4to): — Specimen Bailee Reform a tec (L. Bat. 1765, 
4to) : — Doctrina gratiee sire compendium theologiev dog- 
matical (Duisb. 1734, 4to). — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rate, xx, 206 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 34. 

Gerdii, Hyacinthe Sigismond, a Roman Catho- 
lic theologian, and cardinal of the Congregation of St. 
Paul, was born at Samoens, in Savoy, June 23, 1718. 
In 1732 he entered the order of the Barnabites, and 
studied at Bologna, where his talents attracted the 
notice of the cardinal archbishop Lambertini, who se- 
cured his aid in the preparation of his great work on 
Canonization. He was subsequently made professor 
of philosophy and theology, first at Macerata (1737) 
and afterwards at Turin (1749). In 1777 pope Pius 
VI made him cardinal, with the title of St. Cecilia, 
and afterwards prefect of the Propaganda. He would 
probably have been elected pope on the death of Pius 
VI but for his great age. lie died August 12, 1802. 
Gerdii was undoubtedly a mail of considerable intel- 
lect and of large acquirements. His writings on met- 
aphysical subjects, especially against Locke’s philoso- 
phy, have secured the admiration of many Protestants 
as well as of Roman Catholics. He also wrote largely 
on the evidences of Christianity, and against Bayle and 
the Enc} T elopedists. Editions of his works were pub- 
lished by P.Toselli (Bologna, 1781-1794, 6 vols.), and 
by Fontana and Grandi (Rome, 1806 sq., 20 vols.). Ip 


GEREM 


81S 


GERHARD 


the 20th vol. of the latter edition there is a biography 
of Gerdil Fontana. Sec Tipaltlo, Biografa tlegli 
Jtalimi illustri , tom. iv ; lloefer , Xouv. Biog. Generate , 
xx, 207 sq. ; Gams, Gesch. der Kirche Christi im ID' 6 " 
Jahrhuiulert (Junsb. 1853, vol. i). 

Gerem. See Gaiuiite. 

Gergasa, Gergesa. See Gerasene ; Gadara ; 
Gergesexe. 

Gergesene (t\oy£07/i'oe), a reading (rtpyteri/i/wi') 
found in the Received Text (with many fragmentary 
uncial and other MSS.) in the account of the expul- 
sion of the swine by our Lord (Matt, viii, 28), instead 
of Gadarene (Vadaptjv w, as Tischeiulorf, with several 
of the earliest and many later MSS.), or Gerasene (Ff- 
so Lachm. with most of the cursive MSS. 
and several versions), or even Gazarene (Va^apijiabu, 
so the Codex Sinaiticus). In the parallel passages 
(Mark v, 1 ; Luke viii, 20) the readings are different, 
but equally disputed (IL T. VciSupi) i'wr, with by far 
the greatest weight of authority ; Lachm. and Tisch. 
Vtpacnjviov, with X [in Mark only, in Luke repytorj- 
vd)v ], B, etc.). It is evident that the evangelists did 
not write the same name ; and we may therefore sup- 
pose that the exact spot was one on the immediate 
lake shore, within the bounds of the region indifferent- 
ly known by either of the general names Gadara or 
Gerasa ; or if Gcrgesenes” be retained, it may refer 
to the ancient territory of the Girgnshites (q. v.), iti 
the same neighborhood. Sec Gerasene. 

Ger'gesite (only in the plur. Tfoyfcrmo*), a Grre- 
cized form (Judith v, 10) of the ancient Girgasiute 
(q. v.). 

Gerhard, Johann, an eminent theologian of the 
Lutheran Church of Germany, was born in Quedlin- 
burg October 17, 1582. In 1599 he went to the Uni- 
versity of Wittenberg, and studied medicine for a 
time, then went to Jena, where he privately stud- 
ied Hebrew, the Scriptures, and the fathers. After 
passing A.M., he began to give private lectures in 
those branches and in theology. Thence he went to 
Marburg, where the teachings of Winckelmann and 
Mentzer deeply impressed him. After lecturing on 
theology at Jena, he accepted the superin tendency of 
Heldburg, offered him bv Casimir, duke of Coburg, in 
1G0G. Declining two calls to Jena in 1610 and icil, 
and one to Wittenberg in 1613, he finally accepted the 
senioratc of the faculty of Jena, at the command of 
George I, elector of Saxony, in 1G15. Here he devo- 
ted his great talents industriously to his duties to the 
university, the Church, and the state. He held the 
first place in the ecclesiastical conferences at Jena, 
1621; Leipsic, 1G24 and 1G30 ; and was consulted by 
princes both in ecclesiastical and secular matters. He 
died Aug. 20, 1G37. Gerhard’s great points of excel- 
lence as a dogmatic writer are comprehensiveness of 
plan, thoroughness of the treatment of topics, and per- 
spicuity of style. The Loci Communes Theologici has 
not only been a standard of Lutheran theology for two 
centuries, but has also been greatly valued by Roman 
Catholic and Reformed theologians. 

The cxcgetical writings of Gerhard are also of great 
value, the most important being Comment, in Harmoni- 
um l list . evang.de russione et Resurrcctione Christi (1617, 
4 to), a continuation of the commentaries of Chemnitz 
and Lyscr, and published with them (Hamburg, 1G52, 
3 vols. fol.). It is specially valuable for its patristic 
learning. Posthumously appeared his Comm, in Gen- 
csin (1G37, 4 to) ; Comm, in Dcnteronomium (1G38, 4to) ; 
in 1 and 2 Tim. (1G43) ; in 1 and 2 Peter (1641) ; ad Co- 
loss. (1G60, 4to) ; ad Romanos (1GGG, 4 to). lie also pub- 
lished De Sacra} Script. Interpretatione (1G10, 4to) : — 
Methodus Stud. Tkeol. (1G20) — still valuable as a meth- 
odological work. In the sphere of dogmatic theology 
Gerhard has made his name immortal by two great 
works ; the first is Doctnna catholica et evangelica , quam 


ecclesice A ugustanre confessions addicts profiteniur ex 
Romano - catholicorum scriptorum suffrages confrmata 
(1634, 3 vols.), a work which many theologians consid- 
er the best of Gerhard’s writings. The other great 
work is Loci Theologici, cum ]>ro adstruenda veritate , 
turn pro destruenda quorumvis cant ra dice ntium fdsit ate, 
which he begun in Heldburg when only twenty-seven 
years of age, and of which he celebrated the comple- 
tion (ninth volume) at Jena in 1629 (first edit. Jena, 
1610 1625, 9 vols.; frequently reprinted ; one of the 
best editions is that by Cotta, Tiib. 1762-1789, 22 vols. 
4to, the two last volumes containing index by G. H. 
Muller; a new edition was begun by Dr. Preuss, Ber- 
lin, 1867 sq.). That part of the Loci which treats of 
God and of t lie person of Christ was developed more 
fully in his work published in 1625, under the title Ex- 
egesis sire nberior explicatio articulorum , etc. The value 
of the Loci Theologici in comparison witli the predeces- 
sors of Gerhard in the Lutheran Church, especially 
with Hutter and with his successors, especially with 
Calov and Quenstedt, is ably treated by Gass in his G'e- 
schichte dev protest. Dogmat. i, 261. 

The practical writings of Gerhard are full of the 
spirit of Christian love and devotion. He was, indeed, 
charged by the cold dogmatists of the time with pie- 
tism and mysticism. Among them are Meditationes 
Sacra} ad veram pietatem excitandam etc. (Jena, 1606): 
— Schola Pietatis , d. i. christi. Unterrichtung z.- Gottselig- 
keit (Jena, 1622-23, 12 vols.) : — 52 Ileilige Betrachtungen . 
These have been frequently reprinted ; the Medita- 
tiones has passed through scores of editions, and has 
been translated into English and often reprinted (lat- 
est, Lond. 1841, 12mo). For a list of all his writings, 
see Fischer, Vita Joannis Gerhardi (Lips. 1723): see 
also Herzog, Real- Envy klopddie, v, 40 ; Gieseler, Church 
History (ed. Smith), iv, 574. 

Gerhard, Johann Ernst, (1.) a theologian, was 
born at Jena December 15, 1621. He studied at the 
universities of Jena, Altdorf. Helmstadt, Leipzig, and 
Wittcmberg, devoting himself to Oriental literature 
and theology. He visited successively the libraries of 
Holland, Switzerland, and France, and in his journey 
became acquainted with some of the most eminent lit- 
erary men of that period. After his return to Jena he 
became professor of history, afterwards of theology, in 
the university, and died in that city Feb. 24, 1688. 
lie wrote Ilarmonia linguarum orientalimn : — Consen- 
sus et Dissensns religiomim profananim Judaismi , Sa- 
maritanismi , Muhamedlsmi et paganismi. — Ersch mid 
Gruber, Allg. Encycl. ; Jochcr , Allg. Gel. -Lex. ; lloefer, 
jYouv. Biog. Generate, xx, 213. 

Gerhard, Johann Ernst, (2.) son of Johann 
Ernst (1.), was born at Jena Feb. 19, 1662. He studied 
theology at Jena and Altdorf, became a member of the 
Societas Disquirentium, and contributed a number of 
Memoirs to the Acta Eruditonnn of Leipzig. He was 
afterwards appointed church and school inspector of 
Gotha; was called to Giessen in 1696 as professor of 
theology, and became preacher in the same city in 
1698. He wrote some controversial works little sought 
after now ; the most remarkable of them is entitled 
Der lutherischen vnd reformirten Religion Einigkeit . — 
Ersch u. Gruber, Allg. Encycl. ; Fischer, Vita Gerhardi ; 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , xx, 213. 

Gerhard, St., was born at Staves, diocese of Na- 
mur, in 890. In bis youth he served under Bcrcngar, 
count of Namur. Being once at a hunt, he left bis 
companions and retired to pray in a chapel built on a 
high cliff near the village of St. Gerhard. Having 
fallen asleep there, he had a dream in which he thought 
that he saw the apostles, and that Peter, taking him 
by the hand, took him around the chapel, afterwards 
telling him that it was to he enlarged in honor of St. 
Peter and the martyr Eugene, and that the bones of 
the latter were to he brought there. Gerhard fulfilled 
this dream, and in 918 built there a church and also a 


GERHARDT 


819 


GERIZDI 


convent. Some time after he was sent by Berengar 
on a mission to count Robert of Paris, after fulfilling 
which lie entered the abbey of St. Denis, near Paris. 
The relics of St. Eugene and of several other saints 
were given him by the abbey of St. Denis, which was 
said to possess enough of them to supply all France ! 
The fame of the miracles wrought by the relics of St. 
Eugene was soon spread around, and drew crowds of 
visitors, obliging Gerhard to live in a cell near the 
church in order to obtain some quiet. After spending 
twenty-two years in the reformation of convents, he 
died Oct,. 3, 957. lie was canonized by Innocent II. 
See Mnbillon, Acta ss. onl. s. Bened . v, 218 sq. — Her- 
zog, Recd-Encyklop. v, S9. 

Gerhardt, Paul, the “prince of German bym- 
nists,” was born at Gratenhainichen, in the electorate 
of Saxony, in 1G0G or 1G07. lie received his first ap- 
pointment in 1G51 as minister at Mitten walde. In 
1657 he was called to the church of St. Nicholas, in 
Berlin. In 1GG8 he became archdeacon at Lilbben, 
in Saxony, where he died in 1G7G. As a theologi- 
an, he is noted particularly in the controversies be- 
tween the Lutherans and the Reformed. As a poet, 
his hymns are remarkable for dept h of Christian feel- 
ing and suggestive thought. They are the expres- 
sion of his own feelings and experience, and charac- 
terized generally by their subjective tone. Among 
his 120 hymns there are no less than 1G commencing 
with u I,” and GO others referring exclusively to God 
and the individual heart; yet their popular element 
distinguishes his productions from the poets of the Ref- 
ormation and those of the later rationalistic period. 
“His hymns happily combine simplicity with depth 
and force. They are the heart-utterances of one who 
had a simple blit sublime faith in God, and w ho recog- 
nised his fatherly presence in the operations of nature, 
the superintendence of Providence, and the daily be- 
stowment of the surpassing gifts of redemption.” lie 
never published a complete edition of his hymns, hut 
after 1G49 they found their way into Protestant hymn- 
hooks. J. E. Ebeling, music director in Gerhardt* s 
church, had them published in 1GG7, with music of his 
own composition. There have been many editions 
since ; among the latest are those of Wackerangel 
(Stuttg. 1843; new edit. 3849), Schultz (Berlin, 1842), 
Becker (Lpz. 1S51\ and Langbecker, Leben mid IJeder 
Gerliardts (llerl. 1841). Many of liis hymns have been 
translated into English; the fullest collection is Paul 
Gcrliardt’s Spiritual Songs, translated by John Kelly 
(Loud. 1867),a well-meant hut unsuccessful effort. 11 is 
noble hymn, 0 Haupt roll Bhd vnd Wunden (based on 
Bernard’s Salve caput cruentatum), lias been repeatedly 
rendered; the best version is that of Dr. J.W. Alex- 
ander ( 0 sacred Head now wounded), given in Sehaff’s 
Christ in Song, p. 178. His Be field dn deine Wege is 
admirably translated by John "Wesley in the hymns, 
Commit thou all thy griefs (779 of Methodist Episcopal 
Hymn-book), and Give to the winds thy fears (780 of 
the same collection). His 0 Jesn Chidst mein scliunes 
Lust is also translated by John Weslcv (Jesus, thy 
boundless love to me, Hymn 833, Methodist Hymn- 
hook). Dr. Schaff also gives versions of his Wir singen 
dir, Immanuel, We sing to thee, Immanuel (Christ in 
Song, p. 50); Frohlicfi soil mein Ilerze springen , All my 
heart this night rejoices (Christ in Song, p, 58, C. 
Winkwortli’s version); 0 Welt, sirh hier dein Leben , 
O world, behold upon the tree (Christ in Song, p. 174, 
C. Winkworth’s version). Some of these, and also 
versions of other of Gerhardt’s hymns, are given by 
Cox, Hymns from the German (Lond. 18G5) ; and by C. 
Winkworth, Lyra Germanica (London ; reprinted in 
New York). See, besides the "works already cited, 
Herzog, Real-Eneyklopddie, v, 45 ; Hoefer, Now. Biog. 
Gener. xx, 214; Miller, Our Hymns, their Authors and 
Origin (Lond. 18G6, 32mo); Wimmcr, Leben GAs (Al- 
tenburg, 1723) ; Roth, G. nach seinem Leben u. Wirken 
(Leipz. 1829) ; Schulz, Paul G, u. der grosse Kurfurst 


(Berl. 1840); Wildenhahn, Paul G.,ein kirchen-gescL 
Lebensbild (Leips. 1845 ; 2d edit. 1850). 

Gerhoch or Geroch, a Roman Catholic priest 
of Germany, was horn in 1093 at Polling, in Bavaria. 
Soon after completing his theological studies he took 
an active part in the conflict between the popes and 
the emperors in favor of the former. Bishop Herman 
of Augsburg made him a canon and scholasticus of the 
cathedral school ; but he soon left this position, as the 
bishop, who sided with the emperor, appeared to him 
to he a schismatic, lie withdrew to the Augustinian 
monastery of Raitenbuch (now Rotenbuch), where he 
remained until 1122, w hen, peace having been made bc- 
I tween the pope and the emperor, the bishop of Augs- 
burg recalled him. In 1123 he accompanied the bishop 
to Rome, to reconcile him with the pope. After his re- 
turn from Rome he was again for a time A f agister and 
Doctor Juvenum at Augsburg, but, being disgusted 
with the want of ecclesiastical discipline which pre- 
vailed there, he left the city again for Raitenbuch. 
But there also his reformatory efforts were unsuccess- 
ful, although they were supported by the pope. In 
1126, bishop Kuno,of Ratisbon,made him his secretary; 
soon after he ordained him priest, and gave him the 
1 parish of Cham, to establish there a house for regular 
j canons ; blit the opponents of a rigid discipline again 
thwarted the whole plan. After the death of bishop 
Kuno, Gerhoch found a new patron in archbishop Con- 
j rad I of Salzburg, who, in 1132, made him provost of 
the monastery of Reichcrsberg, which position he re- 
tained until his death in 1169. Gerhoch was a zeal- 
ous defender of a rigid orthodoxy and of all the claims 
' of the pope, and a violent and quarrelsome opponent 
j of the rights claimed by the emperors in Church af- 
fairs, of simony, and of the marriage of priests. He 
devoted throughout his life a special attention to the 
I reformation of the clergy, and was a steadfast adher- 
j ent of the theological method of the earlier fathers in 
opposition to the rising scholasticism, lie even went 
so far as to charge the M agister Sententiarum with her- 
esy. liis eagerness in combating Adoptianism and 
Nesterianism carried him tiff into the other extreme, 
i and he used many expressions on the person of Christ 
which seem to he Eutychian. Of his writings, a com- 
mentary on the G4tli Psalm, in 'which he treats of the 
corrupt condition of the Church, is best known. He 
gives, himself, a list oi all his works, in the preface to 
the Commentary cn the Psalms, w hich has been pub- 
lished by Pcz as the fifth volume of his Thesaurus 
Anecdotormn. in 1728. Some of these works have not 
yet been found. Those that are known are given in 
Migne, Patrologia Latina, vols. cxciii, exciv. — See 
Herzog, Real-Encyllop. v, 49; Neander, Church His- 
tory (Torrey’s transl., vol. iv). (A. J. S.) 

Ger'izim (always with the prefix “ti, Har 

Gcrizzim ', Mount of the Gerizites [from ’"•?'“>> Gerizzi' , 
dwellers in a shorn (i. e. desert) land, from t jJ, ga- 
raz ' , to cut off ; possibly the tribe subdued by David, 
1 Sam. xxvii, 8] ; Sept. Vani^iv, Josephus Vapi^th 1 ) 
and Ebal were two mountains of Samaria, forming 
the opposite sides of the valley which contained the 
ancient town of Shechem, the present Nablus. From 
this connection it is best to notice them together. The 
valley which these mountains enclose is about 200 or 
300 paces wide, by above three miles in length ; and 
Mount Ebal rises on the right hand and Gerizim on 
the left hand of the valley (which extends west-north- 
west) as a person approaches Shechem from Jerusa- 
lem (see Ritter, Erdk. xvi, G41 sq.). These two moun- 
tains were the scene of a grand ceremony — perhaps 
the most grand in the history of nations — duty per- 
formed by Joshua as soon as he gained possession of 
the Promised Land (Deut. xxvii; Josh, viii, 30-35). 
See below. These mountains are mentioned by Jose- 
phus as being similarly situated on either side of She- 
chem (Ant. iv, 8, 44). He also refers to the temple 


GERIZDI 


820 


GERIZDI 


built upon one of them by the Samaritans after the 
exile as the seat of their national worship xi, 7, 

2 ; 8, 2-G), as related in the Apocrypha (2 Maee. vi, 2). 
See below. In order to justify their traditions in this 
respect, they have corrupted the reading of their text 
of the Pentateuch in Dent, xxvii, 4, so as to read 
“ Gerizim” instead of “ Ebal.” It was from the top 
of this mountain that Jotham uttered the famous para- 
ble of the trees to the JShechemite insurrectionists un- 
der Abimeleeh, gathered in the plain below (Judg. ix, 
7), a position from which lie could easily be heard (see 
llackett’s IUustra. of Script, p. 108). The ascent of 
the hill is so difficult that, ere any of the followers of 
Abimeleeh could climb it, Jotham would be far away 
among the detiles of the neighboring mountains. See 
Jotham. 

1. Mount Gerizim has been fully described by sev- 
eral travellers who have ascended it. The latest and 
most complete account of the objects of interest extant 
upon it may be found in M. Satiley's Xarrutice, chap, 
viii, where also its history is given in detail. See also 
Robinson's Bibl. Researches, iii, 9G sq. ; Olin’s Travels , 
ii, 340 sq. Dr. Robinson saj's : “ Mounts Gerizim and 
Ebal rise in steep, roeky precipices immediately from 
the valley on each side, apparently some 800 feet in 
height. The sides of both these mountains as here 
seen (i. e. from Nablus) were, to our eyes, equally 
naked and sterile. The side of the northern mountain, 
Ebal, along the foot, is full of ancient exeavated sep- 
ulchres. The southern mountain is now called by the 
inhabitants Jebul et-Tiir , though the name Gerizim is 
known at least to the Samaritans. The modern ap- 
pellation of Ebal we did not learn.” Dr. Olin states 
that the summit of Gerizim is somewhat higher than 
that of Ebal. The top of Gerizim affords a command- 
ing view of a considerable region, chiefly occupied 
with mountains of inferior elevation, but also embrac- 
ing several fruitful valleys, especially those of Nab- 
lus and of wady Sahl, through which lies the road to 
Jerusalem. A great number of villages are seen all 
along its north-eastern side, upon high and apparently 
precipitous spurs of the mountain which push out into 
the valley from (wady Sahl) the main ridge. Culti- 
vation is carried quite to t lie top of the mountains, 
whieh are adorned with plantations of fruit-trees, 
while every level spot and a vast number of small 
lields, supported by terraces, are sown in wheat. A 
considerable portion of the table-land on the summit 
of Gerizim itself exhibits marks of recent tillage. 
Mount Ebal, as viewed from Gerizim, spreads out, like 
the latter, into a table-land, but is apparently roeky , 
and more broken, and less susceptible of cultivation. 
Mount Gerizim is ascended by two well-worn tracks, i 
one leading from the town of Nablus at its western 
extremity, the other from the valley on its northern 
side, near one of the two spots pointed out as Joseph’s 
tomb. It is on the eastern extremity of the ridge 
that the holy places of the Samaritans are collected. 
Eirst, there occurs the small hole in the rocky ground 
where the lamb is roasted on the evening of the Pass- 
over; next, the large stone structure occupying the 
site of the ancient temple. In one of the towers of 
this edifice, on the north-east angle, is the tomb of a 
Mussulman saint, Sheik Ghranem. Under the south- 
ern wall of this castle or temple is a line of rocky 
slabs, called the u ten stones,” in commemoration of 
the ten (or twelve) stones brought by Joshua, or of 
the ten tribes of the northern kingdom ; they have cv- 
erv appearance of a large rocky platform, divided by 
twelve distinctly marked natural fissures. Beyond 
this platform, still further to the east, is a smooth sur- 
face of roek, sloping down to n hole on its south side ; 
the scene, according to Samaritan tradition, which 
some recent travellers have endeavored to vindicate, ' 
of Abraham’s sacrifice (Moriah, Gen.'xxiv), of his 
meeting with Melehizedek (Gen, xiv ; so Theodotus in 
Eusebius, Prap. Lv. ix, 22), and several other sacred j 


events. (See Stanley’s Sinai and Palest., p.245.) Mr. 
Bartlett also ascended Mount Ebal, but he says he 
“could discover no trace of bv-gone generations, though 
the view, like that from Gerizim, is splendid and ex- 
tensive” ( Footsteps of our Lord , p. 18G). The remains 
of the temple on Mount Gerizim are fully described 
by Thomson {Land and Book, ii, 213 sq.). — Ivitto, s. v. 
See SiiECiiEM. 



South. 

Foundations of Samaritan Temple on Gerizim. 

2. The leading historical incidents connected with 
Mount Gerizim are of a highly interesting character, 
and some of them (as above intimated) have been the 
subjects of controversy. 

(1.) High places had a peculiar charm attached to 
them in those days of external observance. The law 
was delivered from Sinai : the blessings and curses af- 
fixed to the performance or neglect of it were directed 
to be pronounced upon Gerizim and Ebal. (See Mi- 
chaelis, De montibus Ebal et Garizim , Argent. 1773 ; 
Stiebritz, Vindicke run* 5Z m V contra Eennicottum , Ilal. 
17G7 ; Zeficl, id. ib. 17GG ; Vershnir, De lectione Samar. 
ad loc., Franec. 17G7.) Six of the tribes — Simeon, 
Levi (but Joseph being represented by two tribes, 
Levi’s actual place probably was as assigned below), 
Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin, were to take 
their stand upon the former to bless ; and six, name- 
ly, Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun. Dan, and Naphtali, 
upon the latter to curse (Dent, xxvii, 12-13). Ap- 
parently, the ark halted midway between the two 
mountains, encompassed by the priests and Eevites, 
thus divided by it into two bands, with Joshua for 
their eoryplneus. lie read t he blessings and cursings 
successively (Josh, viii, 33, 34), to be re-echoed hv the 
Eevites on cither side of him, and responded to by the 
tribes in their double array with a loud Amen (Dent, 
xxvii, 34). Curiously enough, only the formula for 
the curses is given (ibid, v, 14-2G); and it was upon 
Ebal, and not Gerizim, that the altar of the whole 
unwrought stone was to be built, and the huge plas- 
tered stones, with the words of the law (Josh, viii, 32; 
Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 44, limits them to the blessings 
and curses just pronounced) written upon them, were 
to lie set up (Dent, xxvii, 4-G) — a significant omen for 
a people entering joyously upon their new inheritance, 
and yet the song of Moses abounds with forebodings 
still more sinister and plain-spoken (Dent, xxxiii, 5, 
G, and 15-2<s). See Joshua. 

(2.) The next question is, Has Moses defined the lo- 
calities of Ebal and Gerizim ? Standing on the eastern 


GERIZIM 


821 


GERIZIM 


side of the Jordan, in the land of Moab (Dcut. i, 5), he | 
asks : “ Are they not on the other side Jordan, bv the I 
way where the sun goetli down (i. e. at some distance 
to the W.), in the land of the Canaanites, which dwell 
in the champaign over against Gilgal (i. e. whose ter- 
ritory — not these mountains — commenced over against 
Gilgal; see Patrick on Dent, xi, 80), beside the plains | 
of Moreh?” . . . These closing words would seem to 
mark their site with unusual precision ; for in Gen. 
xii, 6 “the plain (Sept, ‘oak’) of Moreh” is expressly 
connected with “the place of Sicliem or Shechem” (N. 
T. Syckem or Sychcir , which last form is thought to con- 
vey a reproach. Sec Reland, Diss. on Gerizim , in llgo- 
lini, Thes. p. deexxv ; in Josephus the form is Sicimd ), 
and accordingly Judg. ix, 7, Jotham is made to address 
his celebrated parable to the men of Shechem from “the 
top of Mount Gerizim.” The “hill of Moreh,” men- 
tioned in the history of Gideon bis father, may have 
been a mountain overhanging the same plain, but cer- 
tainly could not have been farther south (comp, vi, 33, 
and vii, 1). Was it therefore prejudice, or neglect of 
the true import of these passages, that made Eusebius 
and Epiphnnius, both natives of Palestine, concur in 
placing Ebal and Gerizim near Jericho, the former 
charging the Samaritans with grave error for affirm- 
ing them to be near Neapolis ? (Reland, Dissert., as 
above, p. deexx). Of one thing we ma}'" be assured, 
namely, that their scriptural site must have been, in 
the fourth century, lost to all but the Samaritans, oth- 
erwise these two fathers would have spoken very dif- 
ferently. It is true that they consider the Samaritan 
h} r pothesis irreconcilable with Dent, xi, CO, which it 
has already been shown not to be. A more formidable 
objection would have been that Joshua could not have 
marched from Ai to Shechem, through a hostile coun- 
try, to perform the above solemnity, and retraced his 
steps so soon afterwards to Gilgal, as to have been 
found there by the Giheonites (Josh, ix, G ; comp, viii, 
30-35). Yet the distance between Ai and Shechem is 
not so long (under two days’ journey). Neither can 
the interval implied in the context of the former pas- 
sage have been so short as even to warrant the modern 
supposition that the latter passage has been misplaced. 
The remaining objection, namely, “ the wide interval 
between the two mountains at Sheebem” (Stanle} r , S. 
andP. p. 238, note), is still more easily disposed of, if 
we consider the blessings and curses to have been pro- 
nounced by the Levites, standing in the midst of the 
valley — thus abridging the distance by one half — and 
not by the six tribes on either hill, who only respond- 
ed. Ilow indeed could 600,000 men and upwards, be- 
sides women and children (comp. Numb, ii, 32 with 
Judg. xx, 2 and 17), have been accommodated in a 
smaller space? Besides, in those days of assemblies 
“ sub dio,” the sense of hearing must have been nec- 
essarily more acute, just as, before the aids of writing 
and printing, memories were much more retentive. 
We may conclude, therefore, that there is no room for 
doubting the scriptural position of Ebal and Gerizim 
to have been — where they are now placed — in the ter- 
ritory of the tribe of Ephraim ; the latter of them over- 
hanging the eit} T of Shechem or Sieima, as Josephus, 
following the scriptural narrative, asserts. Even Eu- 
sebius, in another work of his ( Pnrp . Evany, ix, 22), 
quotes some lines from Theodotus, in which the true 
position of Ebal and Gerizim is described with great 
force and accuracy; and St. Jerome, while following 
Eusebius in the Onomaslicon , in his ordinary corre- 
spondence does not hesitate to connect Sicliem or Ne- 
apolis, the well of Jacob, and Mount Gerizim ( Ep . e viii, 
c. 13, ed. Migne). Procopius of Gaza does nothing 
more than follow Eusebius, and that clumsily (Eeland, 
Palast. ii, 13, p. 503); but his more accurate namesake 
of Caesarea expressly asserts that Gerizim rose over 
Neapolis ( De sEdif. v, 7) — that Ebal was not a peak 
of Gerizim (see Quaresm. Elucid. T. S. lib. vii, per. i, 
c. 8), but a distinct mountain to the north of it, and 


separated from it by the valley in which Shechem 
stood, we are not called upon here to prove ; nor again, 
that Ebal was entirely barren, which it can scarcely be 
called now ; while Gerizim was the same proverb for 
verdure and gushing rills formerly that it is now, at 
least where it descends towards Nablus. See Ebal. 

(3.) It is a far more important question whether, as 
the Samaritans believe, Gerizim was the mountain on 
which Abraham was directed to offer his son Isaac 
(Gen. xxii, 2, and sq.). It has been observed that it 
is not the mountain, hut the district which is there 
called Moriah (of the same root with Moreh: see Corn, 
a Rapid, on Gen. xii, 6), and that antecedently to the 
occurrence which took place “ upon one of the moun- 
tains” in its vicinity — a consideration which of itself 
would naturally point to the locality, already known 
to Abraham, as the plain or plains of Moreh, “the land 
of vision,” “the high land,” and therefore consistent- 
ly “the land of adoration,” or “religious worship,” as 
it is variously explained. That all these interpreta- 
tions are incomparably more applicable to the natural 
features of Gerizim and its neighborhood than to the 
hillock (in comparison) upon which Solomon built his 
Temple, none can for a moment doubt who have seen 
I both. Jerusalem unquestionably stands upon high 
ground; but owing to the hills “round about” it, can- 
not be seen on any side from any great distance ; nor, 
for the same reason, could it ever have been a land of 
vision or extensive views. Even from Mount Olivet, 
j which must ahvaj’S have towered over the small emi- 
nences at its base to the southwest, the view cannot be 
named in the same breath with that from Gerizim, 
which is one of the finest in Palestine, commanding, as 
it does, from an elevation of nearly 2500 feet (Arrow- 
smith, Gcoyraph. Diet, of the If. S. p. 145), “the Medi- 
terranean Sea on the west, the snowy heights of ller- 
mon on the north, on the east the wall of the trans- 
Jordanic mountains, broken by the deep cleft of the 
Jabbok” (Stanley, S. and I\ p. 235), and the lovely and 
tortuous expanse of plain (the Mukhna) stretched as a 
carpet of many colors beneath its feet. Neither is the 
appearance which it would “present to a traveller 
advancing up the Philistine plain” (ib. p. 252) — the di- 
rection from which Abraham came— to be overlooked. 
On the other hand, it is clear that the “land of Mo- 
riah” was only thus designated as containing the nota- 
ble mountain there referred to; and any of the hills 
I about Jerusalem are sufficiently conspicuous for the 
purpose. Abraham was undoubtedly at Beersheba 
when he received the command (comp. Gen. xxi, 33, 
and xxii, 1-3, 19). It appears from the narrative that 
on the third day he reached the place, offered the sac- 
rifice, and returned to the spot where he had left his 
servants. The distance from Beersheba to Gerizim is 
about 70 geographical miles, as the crow flies, which, 
in such a country, will give 90 of actual travel. Abra- 
ham’s servants were on foot, carrying wood ; Isaac 
was also on foot, and Abraham rode an ass. It is 
not, indeed, absolutely necessary, as Mr. Porter thinks 
(Hand-look of S. and P. i, 339), that he should have 
started from Beersheba (see Gen. xxi, 34 — “the whole 
land being before him,” c. xx, 15). But had he set 
out, even from so southern a spot, “on the morning 
of the third day, he would arrive in the plain of .Sha- 
ron, exactly where the massive height of Gerizim is 
visible afar off” (Stanley, p. 248), and from thence, 
with the mount always in view, lie would proceed to 
the exact “place which God had told him of” in all 
solemnity — for again, it is not necessary that lie should 
have arrived on the actual spot during the third day. 
All that is said in the narrative is that, from the time 
that it hove in sight, he and Isaac parted from the 
young men, and went on together alone. Still this 
interpretation is not the natural and obvious one, and 
supposes too protracted a journey for the circum- 
stances. The Samaritans, therefore, through whom 
the tradition of the site of Gerizim has been preserved, 


GERIZIM 


822 


GERIZDI 


are probably wrong when they point out still — as they 
have done from time immemorial — Gcrizim as the hill 
upon which Abraham's “faith was made perfect ;” a 
natural result of their desire to magnify their national 
seat of worship. It is, moreover, strange that a place 
once called bv the “Father of the faithful” Jchovah- 
jireh, should have been merged by Moses, and ever 
afterwards, in a general name so different from it in 
sense and origin as Gcrizim. Josephus, in more than 
one place, asserts that where Abraham offered, there 
the Temple was afterwards built {Ant. i, 13, 2 ; vii, 13, 
0). St. Jerome follows Josephus {Quasi, in Gen. xxii, 
5, ed. Mignc), and the Rabbinical traditions respecting 
Mount Moriah are strongly in the same direction (Cu- 
uauis, De Repitbl. Ueb. ii, 12). The Christian tradi- 
tion, which makes the site of Abraham’s sacrifice to 
have been on Calvary, is merely a monkish transfer- 
ence from the Jewish vicinity. See Moriaii. 

(4.) Another tradition of the Samaritans is still less 
trustworthy, viz., that Mount Gerizim was the spot 
w here Melchizedek, met Abraham — though there cer- 
tainly was a Salem or Shalem in that neighborhood 
(Gen. xxxiii, 18 ; Stvnle.y, S. and P. p. 247, and sq.). 
The first altar erected in the land of Abraham, and the 
first appearance of Jehovah to him in it, was in the 
plain of Moreh, near Sichcm (Gen. xii, C); but the 
mountain overhanging that city had not in any ease, | 
as yet, been hallowed to him by any decisive occur- 
rence. lie can hardly, therefore, be supposed to have 
deviated from his road so far, which lay through the J 
plain of the Jordan ; nor again is it likely that lie 
w'otild have found the king of Sodom so far away from 
his own territory (Gen. xiv, 17, and sq.). See Siiaveu, 
Valley of. Lastly, the altar which Jacob built w r as I 
not on Gerizim, as the Samaritans contend, though j 
probably about its base, at the head of the plain be- 
tween it and Ebal, “ in the parcel of a field” wdiich that 
patriarch purchased from the children of Hamor, and 
where he spread his tent (Gen. xxxiii, 18-20). Here 
was likewise his w'ell (John iv, 0), and the tomb of 
his son Joseph (Josh, xxiv, 32), bath of which are still 
shown, the former surmounted by the remains of a 
vaulted chamber, and with the ruins of a church hard 
by (Robinson, Bibl. Res . ii, 283) the latter with “ a 
fruitful vine” trailing over its whitewashed inclosure, 
and before it two dwarf pillars hollowed out at the 
top to receive lamps, which are lighted every Friday 
or Mohammedan Sabbath. There is, however, anoth- 
er Mohammedan monument claiming to be the sahl 
tomb (Stanley, 8. and P. p. 241 note). The tradition 
(Robinson, ii, 283 note) that the twelve patriarchs were 
buried there likewise (it should have made them eleven 
without Joseph, or thirteen including his two sons) is 
probably an erroneous inference from Acts vii, 1G 
(where avrog is not to be included in the subject of 
; see Ilackett, ad loc.). See Melciiize- 

DEK. 

(5.) We now* enter upon the second phase in the his- 
tory of Gerizim. According to Josephus, a marriage 
contracted between Manasseh, brother of Jaddus, t lie 
then high-priest, and the daughter of Sanballat the 
Cuthivan (comp. 2 Kings xvii, 24), having created a 
great stir amongst the Jews (who had been strictly 
forbidden to contract alien marriages ; Ezra ix, 2 ; 
Nell, xiii, 23) — Sanballat, in order to reconcile his son- 
in-hnv to this unpopul ir affinity, obtained leave from 
Alexander the Great to build a temple upon Mount 
Gerizim, and to inaugurate there a priesthood and al- 
tar rival to those of Jerusalem {Ant. xi, 8, 2-4, and, 
for the harmonizing of the names and date, Frideaux, 
Connect, i, 39G, and sq., M'OauFs edit.). “Samaria 
theneetorth,” says Frideaux, “ became the common 
refuge and asylum of the refractory Jews” {ibid. ; see 
also Joseph. Ant. xi, 8, 7t, and for a time, at'lcast, their 
temple seems to have been called by the name of a 
Greek deity {Ant. xii, 5. 5). Hence one of the first 
acts of Hyrcanus, when the death of Antiochus Sidetes I 


| had set his hands free, W'as to seize Shechem, and de- 
stroy the temple upon Gerizim, after it had stood there 
200 years {Ant. xiii, 9, 1). But the destruction of 
their temple by no means crushed the rancor of the 
Samaritans. The road from Galilee to Judcea lay 
then, as now, through Samaria, skirting the foot of 
Gerizim (John iv, 4). Here was a constant occasion 
for religious controversy and for outrage. “How is 
it that thou, being a Jew', askest to drink of me, which 
am a woman of Samaria?” said the female to our Lord 
at the well of Jacob — where both parties w ould always 
bo sure to meet. “ Our fathers worshipped in this 
mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place 
where men ought to worship?” . . . Subsequently we 
read of the depredations committed on that road upon 
a party of Galileans {Ant. xx, G, 1). The liberal at- 
titude, first of the Saviour, and then of his disciples 
(Acts viii, 14), w'as thrown away upon all those who 
would not abandon their creed. Gerizim thus con- 
tinued to be the focus of outbreaks through successive 
centuries. One, under Filate, while it led to their se- 
vere chastisement, procured the disgrace of that ill- 
starred magistrate, who had crucified “Jesus, the king 
of the Jew's,” with impunity {Ant. xviii, 4, 1). An- 
other hostile gathering on the same spot caused a 
slaughter of 10, GOO of them under Vespasian. It is re- 
markable that, in this instance, want of water is said 
to have made them easy victims ; so that the delicious- 
ly cold and pure spring on the summit of Gerizim 
must have failed before so great a multitude (liar, iii, 
7, 32). At length their aggressions were directed 
against the Christians inhabiting Neapolis — now' pow- 
erful, and under a bishop — in the reign of Zeno. Ter- 
cbinthus at once carried the news of this outrage to 
Byzantium : the Samaritans were forcibly ejected from 
Gerizim, w hich w'as handed over to the Christians, and 
adorned with a church in honor of the Virgin ; to some 
extent fortified, and even guarded. This not proving 
sufficient to repel the foe, Justinian built a second wall 
round the church, which his historian says defied all 
attacks (Procop. De _ Edif '. v. 7). It is probably the 
ruins of these buildings which meet the eye of the 
modern traveller (Porter, Handb. of S. and P. ii, 339). 
Previously to this time the Samaritans had been a nu- 
merous and important sect — sufficiently so, indeed, to 
be carefully distinguished from the Jew's and Ca?lico- 
lists in the Theotlosiau Code. This last outrage led to 
their comparative disappearance from history. Trav- 
ellers of the 12th, 14tli, and 17tb centuries take notice 
of their existence, but extreme paucity {Early Travel- 
lers , by Wright, p. 81, 181, and 432), and their numbers 
now', as in those days, is said to be below’ 200 (Robin- 
son, Bib. Res. ii, 282, 2d ed.). We are confined by our 
subject to Gerizim, and therefore can only touch upon, 
the Samaritans, or their city Neapolis, so far as their 
history connects directly with that of the mountain. 
We may observe, however, that as it was undoubtedly 
' tills mountain of which our Lord had said, “Woman, 

! believe me, the hour eometh, when ye shall neither 
in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem (i. e. exclusive- 
ly), worship the Father” (John iv, 21) — so likewise it 
is a singular historical fact, that the Samaritans have 
continued on this self-same mountain century after 
century, w’ith the briefest interruptions, to worship ac- 
cording to their ancient custom ever since to the pres- 
ent day. While the Jews — expelled from Jerusalem, 
and therefore no longer able to offer up bloody sacri- 
fices according to the law' of Moses — have been obliged 
to adapt their ceremonial to the circumstances of their 
destiny; here the Paschal Lamb has been offered up 
in all ages of the Christian sera by a small but united 
nationality (the spot is accurately marked out by I>r. 
R., Bill. Res, ii, 277). Their copy of the law', probably 
the work of Manasseh, and known to the fathers of 
the 2d and 3d centuries (Frideaux, Connection , i, GOO; 
and Robinson, ii, 297-301), w'as, in the 17th, ^indicated 
from oblivion by Scaliger, Usher, Moriuus, and others; 


GERIZZITE 


823 


GERMAN CATHOLICS 


and no traveller now visits Palestine without making 
a sight of it one of his prime objects. Gerizim is like- 
wise still to the Samaritans what Jerusalem is to the 
Jews, and Mecca to the Mohammedans. Their pros- 
trations are directed towards it, wherever they are ; its 
holiest spot in their estimation being the traditional 
site of the tabernacle, near that on which they believe 
Abraham to have offered his son. Both these spots 
are on the summit ; and near them is still to be seen a 
mound of ashes, similar to the larger and more cele- 
brated one north of Jerusalem ; collected, it is said, 
from the sacrifices of each successive age (Dr. B., 
Bill. Res. ii, 202 and 290, evidently did not see this on 
Gerizim). Into their more legendary traditions re- 
specting Gerizim, and the story of their alleged, wor- 
ship of a dove — due to the Jews, their enemies (Keland, 
Biss. up. Ugolin. Thesaur. vii, p. dccxxix-xxxiii) — it is 
needless to enter. — Smith, s. v. See Samaritans. 

Gerizzite. See Gezrite. 

Gerlacli, Otto von, a German theologian, was 
born in 1801 at Berlin, and studied first law and then 
theology at the university there. In 1$28 he became 
privat docent in theology; in 1834, pastor of the Eliza- 
beth-Kirche ; in 1847, court preacher; in 1849, pro- 
fessor ordinarius of theology. He was a man of ear- 
nest piety, and labored zealously as pastor and in fos- 
tering missions at home and abroad. In this respect 
he has been called “ the Wesley” of the Berlin Church. 
The translation of Wesley’s sermon on “Awake, thou 
that sleepest !” was his first literary work. He trans- 
lated Baxter’s Saint's Rest into German. His reputa- 
tion was largely extended by his Commentar z . X. T. 
(Berlin, 1841 ; 3d ed. 1844, 2 vols. 8vo ; new ed. 1858). 
The O. T. was also added, the whole under the title 
Bie heilige Schrift nach Luther's Uebersetzung mit Ein- 
leitungen u. erkfarenden Anmerkungen (1847-53, 6 vols.). 
He also published a new edition of select writings of 
Luther (Berl. 18-10-48, 24 vols.): — Relig. Zustand der 
Avgli. Kirche (Potsdam, 1845) : — Kirchliche Armenpjlcge 
(trans. from Chalmers, 1847). The last two works were 
the fruit of a tour in England and Scotland, under- 
taken by Gerlach in 1842 at the command of the king, 
to investigate the workings of British Christianity. 
Gerlach died at Berlin, greatly lamented, Oct. 24, 1849. 
— Methodist Quarterly Review , April, 1849, p. 2G8 ; Her- 
zog, Real- Ency klop. v, 83. 

Gerle, Christoph e-Antoine, a French religious 
enthusiast, was born A.D. 1740, in Auvergne, and died 
about 1805. When quite a young man he entered the 
order of Carthusian monks, and soon afterwards was 
made prior of Pont-Sainte-Marie. In 1789 he was 
chosen deputy to the Estates General by the clergy of 
Biom, and was one of the first representatives of the 
clergy who supported the policy of the Tiers Etat. In 
the famous Tennis-Court session of the National As- 
sembly {Seance du Jeu dc Paume') he exhibited so much 
earnestness and patriotic fervor that David assigned 
him a conspicuous place in his painting ( Serment du 
Jeu de Paume) (Tennis-Court Oath) representing the 
most imposing scene in that meeting. Having become 
a member of the Constitutional Assembly, Gerle pro- 
posed, Dec. 12, 1789, that all monks who wished to do 
so might be allowed to retire to the monasteries of 
their order and live according to their particular rules, 
provided they conformed to the general laws, and, 
April 12, 1790, urged in vain the issuing a proclama- 
tion declaring the Roman Catholic faith to be the only 
one accepted by the French nation. In June following 
he brought to the notice of the Convention the proph- 
ecies of Susanne de Bonze, of Perigord, made eleven 
years before, in regard to an impending general revo- 
lution, and the reforms consequent thereon. In 1792 
he was chosen one of the electors of Paris. There was 
a strange mixture of philosophism and superstition in 
his nature, as was evinced by his becoming a Theo- 
tist, or follower of Catharine Theos or Theot, an old 


woman who styled herself the mother of God, and an- 
nounced the near advent of a regenerating Messiah, 
and in whose following a number of silly, supersti- 
tious, or intriguing characters were gathered. Gerle 
thought that both himself and the French Revolution 
were clearly indicated in the prophecies of Isaiah. As 
these visionaries were politically friendly to Robes- 
pierre, whom they invoked as supreme pontiff, Robes- 
pierre’s enemies sought to increase the odium against 
him by a public exposure of their absurdities, and ac- 
cordingly Vadier, the organ of the Committee of Gen- 
eral Safety, made a report to the National Convention 
demanding the prosecution of Theos, Gerle, and others 
as guilty of plotting a fanatical conspiracy, which was 
adopted, and on May 1G, 1794, these persons were ar- 
rested and imprisoned on the orders of the committee. 
In the excitement and confusion following the fall of 
Robespierre they seemed to have been forgotten. Theos 
died in prison, and Dom Gerle remained there until the 
advent of the Directory. He was for some time one 
of the editors of the Messager du Soir, and afterwards 
employed in the bureau of the minister of the interior, 
Benezech. A memoir written by him in regard to his 
arrest appeared in the Revue Ritrospyective , No. xi, 2 me 
serie, Nov. 30, 1835. — Ilocfer, None. Biog. Generate, 
xx, 233-23G; Alison, History of Europe , iii, 92 (9th ed. 
Edinburgh, cr. 8vo). (J.W. M.) 

Germain, St. Sec Germ anus. 

Germain, St., ell Laye, a place near Paris, noted 
| for a treaty of peace concluded between the king of 
France and the Huguenots, Aug. 8, 1570, in which it 
was provided that the Protestants should thereafter be 
unmolested on account of their religion. This treaty 
was only made to be broken, as the massacre of St. 
Bartholomew, only two years later (Aug. 24, 1572), 
terribly demonstrated. See Mosheim, Church Hist, iii, 
173; S medley, Reformed Religion in France, i, 322. 

Germain, St., Manuscripts (Codices San- 
germanenses), the name of two very ancient Latin 
MSS. of the N. T. (usually designated as g l and g 2 ), 
so called from having formerly been in the library of 
the Benedictine monastery of St. Germain des Pres at 
Paris, partially examined by Marteanay (whose cita- 
tions were repeated by Blanchini), and afterwards 
t hroughout by Sabatier. — Tregelles, in Horne’s Introd. 
iv, 238 ; Scrivener, Introd. p. 257. See Manuscripts, 
Biblical. 

German Baptists. See Dunkers, and Men- 

nonists. 

German Catholics, the name of a sect in Ger- 
many which sprung up in 1844 in consequence of the 
exhibition of the holy coat at Treves [see Holy Coat]. 
This proceeding called forth a vigorous protest from 
. Johannes Ronge, a priest in Silesia, who, having been 
! suspended from his office, was living in retirement. 
Ronge addressed a public letter to bishop Arnoldi, of 
Treves, Oct. 1, 1844, in which he characterized the ex- 
hibition of the coat as idolatry. Even before the pub- 
lication of this letter, another priest, J. Czerski, at 
Schneidemuhl, in the Prussian province of Posen, had 
formally seceded from the Roman Catholic Church, 
and was about to form a congregation of “Christian 
Apostolic Catholics.” Czerski and Ronge were nat- 
urally drawn into confederacy, though their views on 
doctrine radically differed ; the former sympathizing 
* with evangelical Protestantism, and the latter being 
an ultra Rationalist. Ronge addressed an appeal to 
the lower orders of the priesthood, calling upon them 
to use their influence in the pulpit and everywhere to 
break the power of the court of Rome, and priestcraft 
in general throughout Gennanj r ; to set up a national 
German Church independent of Rome, and governed 
by councils and synods ; to abolish auricular confes- 
sion, the Latin mass, and the celibacy of the priests ; 
and to aim at liberty of conscience for all Christians, 
and perfect freedom for the religious education of chil- 


GERMAN METHODISTS 824 GERMAN REF. CII. IN AMERICA 


(Iren. Czerski, on the other hand, drew lip a confes- 
sion of faith differing hut little from that of the Roman 
Catholic Church, though it declared the Holy Scrip- 
tures and the Nicene Creed as the only standards of 
Christian faith. The new sect quickly increased. At 
the beginning of 1845 more than a hundred congrega- 
tions were in existence, each adopting its own confes- 
sion of faith, some agreeing with that of Czerski, and 
the majority adopting the rationalistic views of Rouge. 
In the confession of faith adopted by the Congregation 
of Breslau, of which Rouge was chosen preacher, the 
essentials of belief were restricted to a few doctrines: 
belief in God as the Creator and Governor of the world, 
and the Father of all men ; in Christ as the Saviour, 
in the Ilolv Spirit, the holy Christian Church, the for- 
giveness of sins, and eternal life. Baptism and the 
Lord's Supper were held to be the only sacraments. 
Confirmation was retained, but most of the rites and 
practices peculiar to the Roman Catholic Church were 
given up. The first council of German Catholics was 
held at Leipzic, March 22, 1845, and attended by depu- 
ties from many of the leading congregations. The 
majority declared in favor of the principles expressed 
in the rationalistic Breslau confessions. The inter- 
pretation of Scripture, the only source of Christian be- 
lief, was left to the free exercise of reason, pervaded 
and actuated by the “ Christian idea.” Forms of wor- 
ship were to he adapted to the requirements of time 
and place. With regard to church government, the 
council declared in favor of the presbyterial and synod- 
al constitution. The congregations were to have the 
free election of their clergy and eldership. The in- 
crease of the sect continued to he so rapid that by the 
end of 1845 it numbered nearly 300 congregations. 
Many prominent Roman Catholics joined it, and even 
a number of Protestant rationalistic clergymen went 
over to it. Distinguished historians like Gervinus 
looked upon the movement as a momentous event in 
the history of Germany. It even exercised a consid- 
erable influence upon the Protestant Church of Geiv 
many, by causing the organization of the Free Con- 
gregations (q. v.), a similar rationalistic sect, chiefly 
consisting of seceders from the Protestant state church- 
es. Several state governments, as those of Saxony, 
Prussia, Baden, Bavaria, and Austria, took very se- 
vere measures against them, and either altogether sup- 
pressed them, or at least tried to put as great obstacles 
as possible in their way. The internal disagreements 
between the orthodox and the rationalistic sections 
also discouraged the spread of the movement, which, 
at the second council, held in Berlin in 1847, appeared 
to be on the decrease. The revolutionary movements 
of 1848 gave the German Catholics full liberty, and, [ 
consequently, some additions were made to the number j 
of their congregations, especially in Austria. But the ' 
further advance which the majority of the German 
Catholics now' made in their opposition to evangelical 
Christianity, and the profession of some of their prom- > 
inent men, that on their part the religious movement 
had been merely a cloak for covering their revolution- 
ary tendencies in politics, estranged many of their 
friends. After the political reaction set in, in 1849, 
strong measures against them w r ere again taken by 
most of the state governments, and in Austria they 
w'crc again wholly suppressed. In 1850 delegates of 
the Gorman CatholJh congregations attended the coun- 
cil of the Free Congregations, and a union of the two 
organizations v\as agreed upon. This union w r as con- 
solidated at the eouneil held in Gotha in 1857, v’hen 
the united body assumed the name of “ found f 'reireligi- 
iwr Gemeinden For their further history, see Free 
Congregations. (A. J. S.) 

German Methodists. See United Brethren. 

German Reformed Church in. America. 
The German Reformed Church is the historical con- 
tinuation in America of the Reformed branch of the 


Protestant Reformation of Germany. The great 
movement of the lfitli century in the bosom of the Ro- 
man Catholic Church v'as at first known as simply 
the Reformation, or Reformed Church, the term Re- 
formed being used in a general sense as designating 
the w’hole religious movement in its opposition to the 
errors and corruptions of Rome. Two distinct tenden- 
cies, embracing theology and practical life, were, how- 
ever, at work from the beginning. The one received 
its type and character primarily from the genius, 
faith, and spirit of Martin Luther, and prevailed chief- 
ly among the northern states of the German nation. 
The other is not thus related to the peculiar spirit of 
one man. Its character was wrought out rather by a 
succession of ministers and theologians in Switzerland, 
France, the Netherlands, and the German provinces 
bordering on the Rhine, among whom are prominent 
Zwingle, Bullinger, Calvin, Mclancthon, Olevianus, 
Uvsinus, and others of the same type of faith. Lu- 
theran theology reached its full development in the 
Form of Concord, 1580 ; Reformed theology in the Pa- 
latinate Catechism, 1503, so called from the German 
province in which the Catechism originated; called 
. also the Heidelberg Catechism, from the University of 
Heidelberg, in which Ursinus and Olevianus, the au- 
thors of the work, were professors of theology. 

Palatinate v r as the name formerly borne by two 
provinces of Germany, distinguished as Upper and 
Lower, and situated along the river Rhine. The first 
(Oberpfalz) bordered on Bohemia and Bavaria ; the 
other (Untcrpfalz) was situated on both sides of the 
Rhine, touching on different sides Maycnce, Wiirtem- 
berg, Baden, Alsace, and Lorraine. The Palatinate 
did not yield to the pow'er of the Reformation move- 
ment until 154G, when it embraced the Lutheran faith. 
It was moulded, however, rather by the gentle spirit 
of Melancthon than by the stern spirit of Luther. Un- 
der Frederick III, surnamed the Pious, who acceded 
to power in 1559, these German provinces passed over 
from the Lutheran to the Reformed faith. The theo- 
logical controversies which preceded and accompanied 
this transition gave rise to the formation of a cate- 
chism, the design of wdiicli w'as to reconcile opposing 
Lutheran and Reformed elements on a new basis. 
The principle and the scope of this new' confession is 
Reformed, not Lutheran; but, resting on the Apos- 
tles’ Creed as its animating and form-giving principle, 
it rises above extreme antagonisms, and aims at re- 
solving into one consistent whole the divergent tend- 
encies of faith characterizing the two original branch- 
es of Protestantism. The adoption of this catechism 
by a synod of the Palatinate, convened for the purpose 
Jan. 19, 15G3, w r as followed by the preparation of an 
order of worship answ'erable to it, and by a complete 
religious and educational organization of the two prov- 
inces ; the great design of Frederick 1 1 1 being to estab- 
lish and perpetuate the Reformed faith in this German 
electorate. Thus arose the Reformed Church of Ger- 
many, or the German Reformed Church, in distinction 
from the Reformed Church of Switzerland, of France, 
Holland, Scotland, and other states and countries. 

Religious persecution at home, civil oppression and 
confusion, and the gratuitous offer of land in Pennsyl- 
vania by William Penn, led to the emigration of a 
large number of Palatines to America in the beginning 
of the last century. From year to year their num- 
bers increased. To these were added hundreds and 
thousands coming from other states of Europe, hold- 
ing the Reformed faith. The}' settled in New York, 
along the Hudson, in New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, 
and even extended into the Carol inns; but the great- 
er number located in Pennsylvania, east of the Sus- 
quehanna. The first minister was the Rev. George 
Michael Weiss, who, assisted on his way by the Chassis 
i of Amsterdam, emigrated from the Palatinate in com- 
pany with about 400 Palatines in the year 1727. They 
i settled along the Skippach, Montgomery Count}’, Pa. 


GERMAN REF. CH. IN AMERICA 825 GERMAN REF. CII. IN AMERICA 


Here a congregation was organized, and a wooden 
cliureh immediately built. This, so far as known, was 
the first German Reformed Church in America. 

Until the year 1747 the religious condition of these 
people was very sad. They had no ministers; no 
Church organization ; no sehool-teaehers ; no books, 
excepting a few Bibles, Catechisms, Liturgies, and 
Uvmn-books, which they brought with them from the 
fatherland ; and no pecuniary resources, for the ma- 
jority were extremely poor. Besides, they were sep- 
arated by national customs and by language from the 
large English population of the country. So helpless 
and destitute, yet anxious to enjoy the means of grace, 
they were exposed to the danger of being misled into 
all sorts of errors by irresponsible teachers. But they 
were distinguished for morality, industry, and thrift. 
In the eourse of time they began to accumulate prop- 
ert} r , and acquire a reputation for honesty and integ- 
rity. With this came respeet, influence, and general 
prosperity. 

Yet this chaotic state of the Reformed Church grew 
worse rather than better. Emigration continued. 
This, added to the natural increase of population, ex- 
tended the religious destitution, and multiplied their 
moral ami spiritual dangers; for from the first settle- 
ment of Palatines in America, throughout this entire 
period, there were at no time more than three or four 
ordained ministers of the Reformed Confession among 
them. 

The arrival in 174G of the Rev. Michael Schlatter, a 
Reformed minister from St. Gall, Switzerland, who 
was commissioned and supported by the synods of 
North and South Holland, introduces the formative 
period in the history of the Church. A man of great j 
energy, strong faith, burning zeal, and indomitable 
perseverance, lie visited all the German settlements in 
Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and 1 
some in New York; gathered the people; preaehed I 
the Gospel; administered the sacraments; organized 
churches: loeated pastors; established schools; and 
on Sept. 29, 1747, in the city of Philadelphia, succeed- 
ed in effecting the organization of the first synod, or 
the Coetus , as it was called, of the German Reformed 
Churel). Subsequently he visited Europe for the pur- 
pose of representing the extreme destitution of the 
Germans in America. He travelled through Holland, 
Switzerland, Germany, and England, and everywhere 
awakened profound interest. He succeeded in creating 
a large fund, the yearly interest of which was devoted 
to the support of ministers and sehool-teaehers in Amer- 
ica, and to the purchase of Bibles for gratuitous distri- 
bution among the people. He also induced a number 
of young ministers to go forth as missionaries to their 
brethren in the New World, of whom five came with 
him on his return to America. 

The first Coetus consisted of thirty-one members — 
five ministers and twenty-six elders — and represented 
fortj'-six churches and a population then estimated at 
thirty thousand. Organized by direction of the Synod 
of Holland, the Coetus stood under the jurisdiction of 
that body. Its proceedings were sent annually for 
review and confirmation to the Classis of Amsterdam, 
that Classis having been charged by the Synod of 
Holland with the duty of superintending the affairs of 
the German Church in America. No one was ordain- 
ed to the office of the ministry without its eonsenf. 

This subordinate relation to the Church of Holland 
continued until 1793, a period of forty-six years. Em- 
igration increased. From time to time, ministers and 
sehool-teaehers from the Palatinate and other Reform- 
ed provinces of Europe arrived. But the increase of 
ministers was not in proportion to the increase of the 
population. Though the Church grew, yet the spirit- 
ual destitutions multiplied, so that at the end of this 
period there were at least one hundred and fifty church- 
es, but no more than about twenty-two ordained min- I 
isters. | 


In 1793 the Coetus resolved no longer to transmit 
its acts and proceedings for revision to the Classis of 
Amsterdam, and assumed the right to govern itself, 
and to have the care of the churches in America, inde- 
pendently of foreign oversight and eontrol. A con- 
stitution was adopted, entitled “ Synodal-Ordnuny des 
hochdeutschen Reformirten Synods nnd dtr mil ihr ver- 
bundenen Gemeinden in den I ’ ereinigten Staatcn von Xord- 
America By this act the Coetus became the Xynod, 
and the Reformirte Kirche , or Reformed Church , be- 
came the Jloch-deutsche Reformirte Kirche , or lliyh-Ger- 
man Reformed Church , in order to distinguish it from 
the Nieder-Dtutsche , or Low-German, or Low-Dutch 
Church. 

This event introduces a period of thirty-two years , 
extending to the establishment of a theological semi- 
nary in 1825, a period which it is not easy to charac- 
terize. In one respect there was progress. The peo- 
ple increased in numbers and wealth. There were 
also large accessions to the population by immigra- 
tion. Congregations multiplied. Many Germans mi- 
grated westward, and cliurelies were organized in Ohio. 
There was also proportionally a larger accession to the 
ranks of the ministry, the number rising from twen- 
ty-two to eiyhty-two. But in another respect there was 
retrogression. So long as the Church stood directly 
under the supervision of Holland, the great majority 
of ministers were men who had been thoroughly edu- 
cated in the gymnasiums and universities of Europe. 
But now, while some men of thorough education still 
came from Europe, the larger number came from the 
membership of the American Church. As the synod 
had no theological seminary, no eollegc, and no aead- 
emv, candidates for the office could acquire only a su- 
perficial or partial knowledge of Latin and Greek, of 
science and theology. Young men had to prosecute 
their studies under the tuition of pastors who had 
charge of from two to eight churches. As a natural 
consequence, the standard of ministerial qualifications 
had to be lowered ; and with the loss of broad culture, 
departed also, in great measure, the sense of its value. 
Some of the leading ministers saw the evils to which 
the Church was exposed from this tendency, and en- 
deavored to resist it manfully, but without avail. 

With the depression of the ministry came ecclesias- 
tical disorders, the fruit of tendencies at work from 
the beginning. Some laymen presumed to administer 
the sacraments ; some ministers, also, were disorder- 
ly. They were disposed to ordain men to the holy of- 
fice on their own judgment and authority as individu- 
als. The Church, moreover, felt the enervating influ- 
ence of German rationalism or neology, and of the de- 
ism of England. The most active and influential men, 
though struggling earnestly against these downward 
forees, could offer but a feeble resistance ; for, taking 
the faith of the Reformation as the standard of judg- 
ment, they themselves occupied a false theologiea! at- 
titude. The rationalistic habit of thought of the 18th 
century, taking hold of them, gave an undertone to 
their preaching and ecclesiastical life, which, though 
they cherished firm faith in the truth of supernatural 
revelation, nevertheless nourished comparative indif- 
ference to the original faith of the Reformed Church 
as embodied in the Palatinate Catechism, and even ex- 
erted an influence in dircet opposition to it. 

Though separated by the ocean, the Church in Amer- 
ica was always in close sympathy with the Church of 
Germany. The profound reaction against Rational- 
ism, which began to reveal its presence there during 
the second decade of the present century, was almost 
simultaneous with a revival of a better faith in the bo- 
som of the American Church. The first decided indi- 
cations appear in the records of 1815, and trom that 
time onward with gradually increasing clearness.. In 
that year we meet the first recognition of the Heidel- 
berg* Cateehism. In all the records preceding this 
time, we find no reference to any confession of faith. 


GERMAN REF. CII. IN AMERICA 82 G GERMAN REF. CH. IN AMERICA 


In 1820, the synod enjoins on all ministers to use no j 
other book but the Heidelberg Catechism in the in- 
struction of youth preparatory to confirmation. The 
want of literary and theological institutions seems to 
be more deeply and generally felt. Earnest and per- 
severing efforts are made to establish a theological sem- 
inary. In 1S19 the constitution is revised and amend- 
ed. The territory is subdivided into classes; a classis 
corresponding to a presbytery in the Presbyterian 
Church. And the synod, instead of being a general 1 
convention of all the ministers and one elder from each 
parish, as it had been since 1747, becomes a delegated 
body composed of ministers and elders chosen by the 
classes. 

The revival of faith and activity resulted finally, af- 
ter a struggle against much opposition extending 
through seven years, in the creation of a theological 
seminary by the Synod of Bedford, Pa., in 1824. The 
Rev. Lewis Maj'er, D.D., was chosen professor of the- 
ology. The seminary opened at Carlisle, Pa., the fol- 
lowing spring. Removed to York in 1829, the insti- 
tution was finally, 1835, located at Merccrsburg, Pa., 
where it still remains. AVith the seminary was re- 
moved also to Merccrsburg tbe higli-school opened at 
York in 1830. This school, under a charter granted 
by the Legislature of the state, became Marshall Col- 
lege in 1830. 

The opening of the theological seminary constitutes 
the most important epoch in the history of the Church 
in America. Followed soon after by the creation of a 
classical institution of a high order, it was the means 
of quickening the historical faith and dormant ener- 
gies of the Church. Though several decades of years 
were necessary in order to unfold the moulding power 
of these institutions in the sphere of philosophy, theol- 
ogy, and practical life, yet a new impulse was at once 
given to thought and life. The standard of qualifica- 
tion for the ministry was elevated. A much larger ! 
number of pious young men responded to the call of 
God to preach the Gospel. The ministry increased 
rapidly. Religious periodicals were .established : first, 
one in English, 1828; and several years later, one in 
German, 1<S3G. A board of domestic missions and a 
board of beneficiary education were created. The be- 
nevolence of the people w’as evoked. Greater zeal 
manifested itself for the extension of the Church. 
About this time, also, some men were admitted to the 
ministry who could preach acceptably in English, and 
were thus prepared to meet the wants of the younger 
membership in the cities and larger towns ; W’ants 
arising from the growing prevalence of that language 
among the German people ; for, until 1825, with per- 
haps but two or three exceptions, all the pastors con- 
ducted public worship exclusively in the mother 
tongue; in consequence of which, scores of families, 1 
who preferred the English language, had, during the 
previous fifteen or twenty years, in particular locali- 
ties, passed over to other denominations. The transi- 
tion, though generally gradual, caused no little dissen- 
sion and confusion in nearly every congregation where 
the change was felt to be necessary, owing to the firm- 
ness with which the older people clung to German 
worship. At present this difficulty has been surmount- 
ed throughout nearly all portions of tbe Church west 
of the Susquehanna and south of the Potomac, where 
the English language is now generally used either ex- 
clusively or in conjunction with the German ; but east 
of the Susquehanna, where the Pennsylvania dialect 
of the German language has been perpetuated among 
not less than fifty thousand of her people, and where 
the great majority of ministers conduct public w orship 
hi the mother tongue, the problem still awaits solution. 

Though the theological seminary and the gradual 
introduction of the English language both met a great 
want and proved to be a great good, yet the Church 
was thereby exposed to new and serious dangers. This 
spiritual awakening united positive and negative ele- I 


ments. It w’as the assertion and development of the 
old faith, and, at the same time, a reaction against what 
was defective and wrong in her American history. 
This reaction, modified by contact with the Presbyte- 
rian, Methodist, and other denominations, for a while 
confounded what W’as true and good in the past with 
what w’as false and evil, and was disposed, with the 
abuse of catechisation, confirmation, the observance of 
the great festivals of the Church year and other cus- 
toms, to set aside these customs themselves, and thus 
ignore the historical character of the German Reform- 
ed Church. The false tendency prevailed most gener- 
ally among the congregations that had introduced the 
use of the English language. The German sections 
of the Church enjoyed a large measure of protection. 
As the prevalence of the German language deprived 
them of the advantage of fellowship with the English 
denominations, so it shielded them also measurably 
against the transforming influence of a foreign spirit. 

But even where this spirit, foreign to the genius of 
the Church, had acquired the most commanding influ- 
ence, the traditional habit of thought and life w r as not 
extinct. The conditions of a strong counter reaction 
were always present. It was only necessary that 
some one assert clearly and forcibly the latent faith of 
the Church. This was done with great power by the 
Rev. John AY. Kevin, D.I)., several years after he had 
become, in 1840, professor of didactic theology in the 
seminary at Merccrsburg. 

For nearly twenty years the tendency to surrender 
her distinctive faith and customs had been gaining 
strength in the German Reformed Church, slowly in- 
deed, but steadily, and the process of assimilation to a 
foreign form of Christian life was silently going for- 
ward. A powerful counteracting element, however, 
W'as developed as early as 183G in the profound Anglo- 
German philosophy taught by the Rev. Frederick Au- 
gustus Rauch, D.P., the first president of Marshall 
College, who laid the foundation of the system of or- 
ganic and objective thinking which has ever since 
characterized the leading educational institutions of 
the Church. There was accordingly at hand both a 
general and special preparation for the great Church 
movement of the last twenty-five years, of which I)r. 
Kevin has been the principal organ : general, in the 
slumbering spirit of the Heidelberg Catechism, which, 
living in the hearts of ministers and people, perpetua- 
ted a sense of dissatisfaction with a foreign religious 
habit, and constituted a general qualification to sup- 
port, as by intuition, the protest against error, and the 
affirmation of fundamental truth pronounced by a 
great leader; and special, in the genetic method of 
thought which, in full sympathy with the spirit of the 
Catechism, had, through the teaching of l)r. Rauch, 
given character to the college, and moulded the philo- 
sophical thinking of the first ministers of the Church, 
who received a full literary and theological training 
in her own institutions. 

This profound and comprehensive movement consti- 
tutes the leading characteristic of the Church in the 
last period of her American history. The bold criti- 
cisms of Protestantism, and the unequivocal reasscr- 
tion of the catholic truth contained in the Protestant 
confessions of the lGtli cent my by Dr. Kevin, and the 
publication of the Principle of Protestantism by the 
Rev. Philip Schaff, D.I)., in German and English, 
called forth earnest and sometimes very violent rejoin- 
ders from religious papers and quarterly reviews, and 
provoked a series of controversies concerning the new- 
measnre system, the Lord’s Supper, tradition and the 
rule of faith, the nature of the Church, the present at- 
titude of Protestantism and its relation to Roman Ca- 
tholicism, the person of Christ, the nature of Christi- 
anity, and, in the course of time, holy baptism and 
liturgical worship, with many other cognate funda- 
mental doctrines ; controversies which have been pros- 
ecuted vigorously, with short intervals of repose, down 


GERMAN REF. CH. IN AMERICA 82 V GERMAN REF. CH. IN AMERICA 


to the present time, and have not only involved some 
of the principal denominations in this country, but of 
late have also extended to Germany. 

The main positions, both negative and positive, af- 
firmed by Dr. Nevin and his coadjutors, have from time 
to time been sustained by the Eastern Synod and by 
the General Synod, sometimes by direct and formal 
action, but generally in an indirect way, since the 
main questions have only occasionally been at issue 
before the judicatories in a formal manner. Indeed, 
instead of being merely the innovation of a party, the 
great movement has been onty a life movement of the 
German Reformed Church herself, the men promi- 
nent in the controversies being rather the exponents 
and organs than leaders. Yet a portion of the Church 
has all along been opposing the prevailing theological 
views. The opposition has generally been conducted 
with moderation and sobriety, but sometimes it has 
been violent and disorderly, and has even indicated 
an inclination towards schism. Another effect of the 
controversies and of the theological attitude of the 
Church has been to provoke a large measure of oppo- 
sition from some of the principal Protestant denomi- 
nations. A disposition even shows itself to maintain 
that the German Reformed Church is no longer true 
to her origin and history as a branch of the Protestant 
Church. 

Soon after the controversies began the Mercersburg 
Review was established, in order to serve as a medium 
for the development, defence, and progress of what 
came to be known among opponents as Merccrsburg 
Philosophy and Theology. It was issued regularly 
from 1849 until 18G1 inclusive. Suspended during the 
progress of the Civil War, it was resumed in January, 
18G7. 

In 1820 the ministers and churches in Ohio organ- 
ized themselves by the authority of synod into a dass- 
is, called the Classis of Ohio ; but it stood in organic 
relation to synod only during the short period of four 
years. In 1824 it became an independent body, and 
assumed the title of the Synod of Ohio , having 11 min- 
isters, 80 congregations, and 2500 members. In 1837 
the Synod of Ohio became the Synod of Ohio and Adja- 
cent States. In 1842 this synod subdivided its terri- 
tory into six classes. Thus there came to exist two 
mutually independent synods, having the same organ- 
ization, holding the same faith, governed by the same 
constitution, having the same usages and customs, and 
each one possessing supreme and final authority with- 
in its own bounds. The two bodies exchanged dele- 
gates annually, the delegate being admitted as a full 
member of the body to which he was commissioned. A 
sense of dissatisfaction with this incomplete and anoma- 
lous organization began to prevail, and a strong desire 
became general, both East and West, to effect a more 
perfect organization by creating a higher body that 
should have jurisdiction over the whole Church. The 
constitution was accordingly so changed by a vote of 
two thirds of all the classes of each synod as to make 
room for the organization of a triennial General Synod. 
This body, composed of delegates, ministers and el- 
ders, chosen by all the classes, represents the whole 
Church. It is the highest judicatory, and “the last 
resort in all cases respecting the government of the 
Church not finally adjudicated by the synod.” The 
General Synod held its first session in Pittsburg in 
November, 18G3. 

During the same year the Church celebrated the 
three hundredth anniversary of the formation and 
adoption of the Heidelberg Catechism. This celebra- 
tion was originally suggested by the Rev. Dr. Har- 
baugh, and the preparatory arrangements made by a 
committee of which he was chairman. Ministers, el- 
ders, and members from all parts of the Church met 
in General Convention in the German Reformed 
church, Race Street, Philadelphia, Jan. 17, 1863, and 
continued in session six days. Twenty essays and 


discourses on the origin, history, doctrines, confession- 
al relations, and the fortunes of the Heidelberg Cate- 
chism, prepared by distinguished theologians of Eu- 
rope and America, were read and discussed. The ju- 
bilee was formally closed by a similar convention held 
at Reading May 21, 1864. 

Though held during the darkest times of the war of 
the Rebellion, yet the celebration was in all respects 
a success. Profound and general interest was awak- 
ened in the origin, history, faith, and relations of the 
German Reformed Church among ministers and the 
laity. The Church came to a better apprehension of 
her historical character as an original branch of the 
Protestant Reformation, and acquired a clearer con- 
sciousness of her present relative position and voca- 
tion, and of her future mission. A new impulse was at 
the same time given to all her practical operations. 

As the fruit of this celebration, two volumes pos- 
sessing permanent historical value were published: 
the Tnglott Catechism and the Tercentenary Monument . 
The first is a critical edition of the Catechism in the 
original German, in Latin, modern German, and in 
English, printed in parallel columns, and accompanied 
with an historical introduction. The English is a 
new translation. The Monument consists of the dis- 
courses and essays delivered at the Convention held 
in Philadelphia, and was published in English and 
German. 

This tercentenary jubilee constitutes a most impor- 
tant epoch in the history of the Church, and may be 
regarded as the relative conclusion of the ethical 
forces at work for the previous twenty or thirty years. 

The second General Synod, held at Dayton, 1866, 
authorized the organization of two additional synods : 
the one, consisting of the classes of St. Joseph, Indi- 
ana, Sheboygan, Heidelberg, and Erie, to be called 
the North-western Synod ; and the other, consisting 
of the classes of Clarion, St. Paul’s, West New York, 
and Westmoreland. The first was organized at Fort 
Wayne, Ind., May 28, 1SG7. The organization of the 
other body is still pending, but will probably be ac- 
complished during the coming year (1870). 

For the last ten years measures have been in prog- 
ress to restore the original title Reformed Church by 
dropping the American prefix German. The change 
has finally been secured bv a vote of two thirds of the 
classes, and only awaits the formal decision of the 
General Synod. 

The Heidelberg Catechism is the symbol of faith, 
and the only standard of doctrines. The book may be 
said to embody two theological tendencies; the one 
Melancthonian, the other Calvinistic. We may des- 
ignate them more correctly, perhaps, by saying that 
the one tendency, proceeding from faith in the divine- 
human Saviour, a concrete fact, as the fundamental 
principle, is christological, sacramental, churchly, and 
conservative ; while the other, presupposing the sover- 
eign will of God as the determining principle of Chris- 
tianity, is in sympathy with intellectualistic, unsacra- 
mental, and unchurchly views, and renders the book 
susceptible of a construction which is apparently in 
full harmony with all the logical deductions which 
flow from the supralapsarian theory. Hence it is that 
the Catechism could be cordially indorsed by the Synod 
of Dort, 1618, which wrought out and affirmed with 
such logical consistency the celebrated Five Points of 
Calvinism ; and that the Reformed (Protestant Dutch) 
Church, wdiile it receives the Heidelberg Catechism as 
a correct and excellent exponent of revealed truth, 
nevertheless holds it only as construed according to 
the famous decrees of Dort and the Belgic Confes- 
sion. 

The German Reformed Church has never affirmed 
this supralapsarian element as a ruling principle. We 
mean the German , in distinction from the Swiss Re- 
formed, French, Dutch, Scotch, and other branches of 
the Reformed Church. In the German branch tho 


GERMAN REF. CII. IN' AMERICA 828 GERMAN REF. CH. IN AMERICA 


Melancthonian element has been predominant rather \ 
than the Calvinistic, though many of her theologians 
and ministers, and even Ursinns, one of the authors, 
interpret the Catechism in accordance with the Calvin- 
istic theory of decrees. 

The leading characteristic of the Catechism is the 
peculiar position which the Apostles’ Creed occupies. 
The Creed is principial. It is not an element co-ordi- 
nate with the Decalogue and the Lord’s Prayer, but 
the Decalogue and Lord’s Prayer hold a place respect- 
ively which is demanded by the idea of the Creed. The 
Creed underlies and pervades the Catechism like a 
^plastic power, and determines, prevailingly, the nature j 
and substance of what must be? received as the true 
faith. 

It determines the ruling theory of Christianity as 
being a new creation rather than a system of revealed 
doctrines ; as being an objective and concrete order of 
life rather than subjective experience and abstract 
theory. It determines the relation in which the be- 
liever is held to the new' creation as being immediate, 
direct, and personal. Like the earth before t lie nat- 
ural eye, so do supernatural objects stand before the 
eye of the spirit as a reality — a reality which is the 
possession of the believer. 

The Creed also determines the order in which the 
facts of supernatural revelation are developed. As 
the Creed, on the one hand, presupposes the fall and 
misery of man, and, on the other, involves and implies 
holy living as a necessar}' consequence of the new life, 
whilst it embraces only those facts which belong to 
the positive side of revelation, the Catechism, an- 
swering to this order, places the creation and fall of 
man, sin and depravity, in the first part; conversion, 
good works, and prayer, as the necessary fruit of the 
neiv life, in the third part, under the general head of 
Thankfulness, taking the Decalogue as the law of good 
works, and the Lord’s Prayer as the model of devo- 
tion ; whilst the second part gives the positive objec- 
tive substance of redemption, and consists in setting 
forth the facts of revelation in the order in which the 
Creed affirms them ; and, in immediate connection 
therewith, expounds the sacraments and the office of 
the keys ; the sacraments as the means of grace by 
which, through faith, we have part in the one sacrifice 
of Christ on the cross, and are fed and nourished unto 
everlasting life; and the office of the keys as embrac- 
ing the preaching of the Gospel and Christian disci- 
pline, by w hich tw'O things the kingdom of heaven is 
opened to believers and shut against unbelievers. 
Holding this central position, the Creed informs the 
constitution of the Catechism, projects its peculiar 
structure, and breathes its animating spirit into the 
form of instruction. Not that the Catechism realizes 
the idea of the Creed perfectly at all points ; but it ac- 
knowdedges the original authority of the Creed, and 
realizes its fundamental characteristics. The Creed 
thus also holds the Catechism in organic connection 
with the undoubted faith of the one holy Catholic 
Church in all the ages of her history up to the apos- 
tolic period. 

Though the peculiar organizing force of the Creed 
may not, at all times since the Reformation, or even at 
the time of its first publication, have been clearly or 
consciously apprehended, yet this principial element has 
always been felt, and lias ahvays had a correspondent 
moulding influence whenever and wherever the Cate- 
chism has been cordially received, and has, without 
prejudice and obstruction, been allowed freely to exert 
its educational pow'er. Whatever is distinctive in the 
original character, or subsequent history, or the pres- 
ent attitude, as regards doctrine and worship, of the 
German as compared with other Reformed branches 
of the Protestant Church, is owing primarily and main- 
ly to this fundamental and distinguishing element of 
her confession. 

It is the peculiar genius of the Heidelberg Catechism 


which has given impulse to the profound and compre- 
hensive theological movement by which the Church 
is now' apprehended, and has sustained it with increas- 
ing power; a movement that is progressively elimi- 
nating two classes of doctrinal view's : those which fol- 
low' logicall}' from the Calvinistic theory of the divine 
sovereignty, and those which proceed from the Arniin- 
ian conception of human freedom. Neither the sov- 
ereign will of God on tiie one hand, nor the free will 
of man on the other, is the principle of salvation ; nei- 
ther God apart from man, nor man apart from God. 
According to the general idea of the Catechism, this 
principle is found in a concrete fact, the person of the 
Redeemer, w ho, being true God and true man, unites in 
himself mysteriously the freedom of the human with 
the sovereignty of the divine will. Being hv true faith 
a member of Christ through the power of the Holy 
Ghost, a Christian determines himself freely, and is at 
the same time determined by God, when lie lives ac- 
cording to the will of God, actualized in the person and 
work of Christ. 

The most important result, theologically, of the ter- 
centenary celebration, 18G3, w*as the advancing and 
maturing of a consciousness of this principial element 
of the Catechism, namely, the organic relation which 
the Creed bears to its structure and doctrines. For 
the first time in her American history did the Church 
formally recognize the Creed, in its proper historical 
sense, as possessing fundamental authority for the Re- 
formed faith. The tercentenary convention held in 
Reading, May, 18G4, appointed a committee to submit 
to the (Eastern) synod for adoption certain topics hav- 
ing reference to the theological and religious bearings 
of the tercentenary jubilee. The report of this com- 
mittee was presented to the Synod of Lancaster in Oc- 
tober of the same year. It sums up the theological 
and religious results in the following theses: 

1. “Our tercentenary jubilee has served a whole- 
some purpose for renewing for our ecclesiastical con- 
sciousness a proper sense of w hat is comprehended in 
our confessional title Reformed, as related originally 
to Lutheranism in one direction, and to the Catholic 
Church of the olden times in another. 

2. “It is an argument of sound and right historical 
feeling in this case, that the beginnings of our Church- 
life are referred, not simply to the epoch and crisis of 
the Reformation, but through that also to the original 
form of Christianity as it existed in the first ages. 

3. “ The true genius and spirit of our Church in this 
respect is shown by the place which is assigned to the 
Apostles’ Creed in the Heidelberg Catechism, where it 
is plainly •assumed that the Creed, in its proper histor- 
ical sense, is to lie considered of fundamental author- 
ity for the Reformed faith. 

4. 11 It is a matter of congratulation that our growl- 
ing sympathy with the Apostles’ Creed is attended 

' with a growing power of appreciation among us also 
for that christological way of looking at the doctrines 
of Christianitv which has come to characterize all the 
evangelical theology of Germany in our time, and b} r 
which only, it would seem, the objective and subjec- 
tive (iu other words, the ehurchlv and experimental) 
sides of the Gospel can be brought into true harmony 
with each other.” 

These theses were adopted without dissent. They 
show w ith what unanimity the mother synod stands, 
in doctrinal apprehension, upon an historical and catho- 
lic basis, and protests both against all the sectarian and 
rationalistic tendencies of Protestantism, and against 
the errors and corruptions of the Roman and Greek 
churches. 

Taking as a general principle the idea enunciated in 
these theses, that the Church refers her life not only 
to the epoeh of the-Reformation, but through this also 
to the original form of Christianity as it existed in the 
first ages, and that the Apostles’ Creed is to be consid- 
ered of fundamental authority for the Reformed faith, 


GERMAN REF. CH. IN AMERICA 829 GERMAN REF. CH. IN AMERICA 


we proceed to state in few words some of the principal 
doctrinal views which the Palatinate Catechism, thus 
interpreted, teaches and involves : 

1. Adam, created in the image of God, was endowed 
with capacity to resist temptation and abide in his orig- 
inal state of life-communion with God ; but lie trans- 
gressed the command of God by a free act of his own 
will through the instigation of the devil, the head of 
the kingdom of darkness. 

2. The fall of Adam was not that of an individual 
only, but the fall of the human race. 

3. All men are born with the fallen nature of Adam, 
and are thus under the power of the kingdom of dark- 
ness, inclined to all evil, and unapt to any good ; and ' 
are subject to the wrath of God, who is terribly dis- 
pleased with their inborn as well as actual sins, and 
will punish them in just judgment in time and in eter- 
nity. 

4. The eternal Son of God, incarnate by the Holy 
Ghost of the Virgin Mary, true God and true man in 
one person, is the principle and substance of the new 
creation. 

5. In the mystery of the AVord made flesh, the hu- 
manity which the Son of God assumed into organic 
and eternal union with himself is the most perfect form 
of supernatural revelation, and the only medium of di- 
vine grace. 

G. All the acts of Christ are not those of God or of 
man separately taken, but the acts of the God-man. 

7. llis baptism, fasting, and temptation; his mira- 
cles and his word; his agony, passion, and death ; his 
descent into Hades; his resurrection from the dead, 
ascension to heaven, and session at the right hand of 
God; the coming of the Holy Ghost, and his second 
advent — all derive their significance and saving virtue 
from the mysterious constitution of his person. 

8. The atonement for the sin of man is the reconcil- 
iation of God and fallen humanity in the person and 
work of Jesus Christ. It is not simply the offering of 
himself on the cross, but the whole process of resuming 
human nature into life-corn nninion with God, and in- 
cludes both perfect satisfaction to the law by suffering 
the penalty and all the consequences of sin, and com- I 
plete victory over the devil. The full benefit of the 
atonement inures to the believer, because by faith he 
is a member of Christ and a partaker of his anointing, 
and thus stands before God in the life and righteous- ! 
ness of Christ. 

9. The Church constituted by the coming of the 
Holy Ghost is the mystical body of Christ, a new, real, 
and objective order of existence, and is both super- 
natural and natural, divine and human, heavenly and 
earthly, the fulness of him that filleth all in all; in 
whose communion alone there is redemption from sin 
and all its consequences, fellowship with God in Christ, 
and the hope of complete victory over death and hell, 
and of eternal glory. The relation which the new, 
regenerated humanity, his mystical body, bears to 
Christ the head, the second Adam, is analogous to the 
organic relation which the old, fallen, accursed hu- 
manity bears to the first Adam. 

10. The sacraments are visible, holy signs and seals, 
wherein God, by an objective transaction, confirms to 
sinners the promise of the Gospel. They are the 
means whereby men, through the power of the Holy 
Ghost, are made partakers of the substance of divine 
grace, that is, of Christ and all his benefits. 

11. Iloly baptism is a divine transaction, wherein 
the subject is washed with the blood and spirit of 
Christ from all the pollution of his sins as certainly as 
he is washed outwardly with water; that is, he is re- 
newed by the Holy Ghost, and sanctified to be a mem- 
ber of Christ, that so he may more and more die unto 
sin, and lead a holy and unblamable life. 

12. Baptized persons do not attain unto the resur- 
rection of the dead and eternal life in virtue simply of 
holy baptism, but only on the condition that, improv- 


ing the grace of baptism, they believe from the heart 
on Christ, die unto sin daily, and lead a holy life, and 
thus realize the full virtue of the incarnation and 
atonement. 

13. The sacrament of the holy supper is the abiding 
memorial of the sacrifice of our blessed Saviour Jesus 
Christ for our sins upon the cross ; the seal of his per- 
petual presence in the Church by the Holy Ghost ; the 
mystical exhibition of his one offering of himself made 
once, but of force always to put away sin ; the pledge 
of his undying love to his people, and the bond of his 
living union and fellowship with them to the end of 
time. In the use of this sacrament believing commu- 
nicants do not only commemorate his precious death 
as the one all-sufficient vicarious sacrifice for their 
sins, but Christ himself also, with his crucified body 
and shed blood, feeds and nourishes their souls to ev- 
erlasting life ; that is, by this visible sign and pledge 
he assures them that they are really partakers of his 
true body and blood, through the working of the Holy 
Ghost, as they receive by the mouth of the body these 
holy tokens in remembrance of him. 

14. The bread and wine of the holy supper are not 
transmuted into the very body and very blood of 
Christ, but continue to be natural bread and wine ; nor 
is the body and blood of Christ consubstantial, that is, 
in, with, and under the natural bread and wine ; but 
the sacramental transaction is a holy mystery, in 
which the full life-giving and saving virtue of Christ, 
mediated through his humanity, is really present by 
the supernatural power of the Holy Ghost, and com- 
municated to those who, by true faith, eat and drink 
worthily, discerning the Lord’s body. 

15. At death the righteous pass into a state of joy 
and felicity, and abide in rest and peace until they 
reach their consummation of redemption and bliss in 
the glorious resurrection of the last day. 

16. The second advent of Christ to judge the world 
in righteousness will complete the objective order of 
redemption, and also the subjective process of life and 
salvation in his body, the Church ; when the last en- 
emy, which is death, shall be destroyed ; when the 

I saints shall come forth from the dead in the full image 
of their risen Lord, and with him pass into heaven, 
the state of perfect blessedness ; and the wicked shall 
, rise to the resurrection of eternal damnation. 

AVe add a brief summary of doctrine on points not 
j directly included in the foregoing formal statements. 

The German Reformed Church denies that the will 
of God or the will of man is the principle of theology; 
that Christianity is merely a system of doctrine or a 
rule of moral conduct ; that the covenant is only a 
compact between God and man, or between the Father 
i and the Son; that there is a twofold eternal decree, 
i electing some unto salvation and others unto damna- 
tion ; that the election of God unto eternal life in 
Christ becomes effectual outside of the economy of 
grace ; that the humanity of Christ, or the incarna- 
tion, is an expedient in order to make an atonement 
for sin ; that the Church is an association of converted 
individuals; that the Bible is the foundation of the 
Church ; that the relation of the contents of the Bible 
to the individual is immediate; that the authority of 
the Church is subordinate to the private judgment of 
the individual Christian ; that the unconverted and 
| ungodly may observe the holy communion ; that jus- 
tification consists in a forensic act of God imputing 
the righteousness of Christ ah extra, or that it is real- 
ized by an act of faith in the imputed righteousness of 
I Christ ; that the faithful use of the ordinary means of 
grace is inadequate to the wants of the Church and 
the world ; that the Church of Rome is a total aposta- 
sy; and that Protestantism has its ground immediately 
in the sacred Scriptures. 

On the contrary, the Church 'affirms that the person 
of Christ is the true principle of sound theology; that 
Christianity is a new life ; that the humanity of Christ 


GERMAN REF. CII. IN AMERICA 830 GERMAN REF. CII. IN AMERICA 


is an essential constituent of Christianity : that the 
Christian Church is an organic continuation in time 
and space of the life-powers of the new creation in 
Christ Jesus ; that the covenant is an order or institu- 
tion of grace, spiritual and real ; that the Bible was 
written by members of the Church under plenary in- 
spiration of the Holy Ghost; that private judgment is 
subordinate to the general judgment of the Church as 
expressed particularly in the oecumenical creeds; that 
the word of God is the only norm of faith and prac- 
tice, and is superior to all creeds and confessions; that 
the individual comes to a right apprehension of the 
contents of the Bible through the teaching of the 
Church ; that the election of grace unto life is effec- 
tual in and by the established economy of grace; that 
justification is by an act of faith in the person and 
work of Christ, and consists both in the imputation 
and impartation of Christ and his righteousness ; that 
holy baptism is the sacrament of regeneration, regen- 
eration being the transition from the state of nature to 
the state of grace, as natural birth is the transition to 
the natural world ; that regeneration, succeeded by 
conversion and sanctification, completes itself in the 
resurrection from the dead, inasmuch as regeneration 
and salvation pertain to the entire man, the body no 
less than the soul ; that believers only bold commu- 
nion with Christ in the Lord’s Supper; that the ordi- 
nary, divinely-ordained means of grace are adequate 
to all the needs of the Church and the world, and, if 
faithfully used, do not fail to promote a steady and 
vigorous growth of the Church ; that, although the 
Church of Rome holds many articles of faith, and ap- 
proves and perpetuates many customs which are not 
warranted hv the Scriptures and are wrong, she is 
nevertheless a part of the Church of Christ; and that 
Protestantism is an historical continuation of the 
Church Catholic, in a new and higher form of faith, 
organization, and practice. 

There is a respectable minority, located chief!}' in 
the West, who dissent from many of the doctrines as 
given in this statement; a few even resist the whole 
system of thought as being subversive of the true Re- 
formed faith. Some of them adopt the theory of sal- 
vation taught by the Methodist Church, and observe 
some of her measures and customs. Others hold the 
Calvinistic theory of decrees, and their teaching con- 
forms to the Presbyterian or Puritan type of religion. 
But the prevailing faith, as held by the Eastern Synod, 
is gradually overcoming opposition, and extending; 
and from year to year the number of ministers and 
churches is increasing, both West and East, that stand 
firmly on the historical, churchly, and sacramental 
basis of the Palatinate Catechism. 

As regards worship , the Church is in a state of tran- 
sition. During the present century extemporaneous 
prayer lias prevailed in the regular services of the 
Lord’s day ; but this is a departure from the original 
custom. Originally the worship was liturgical. The 
Palatinate Liturgy was issued one year after the Pa- 
latinate Catechism. It did not, however, like the 
Catechism, acquire an (ecumenical character. Every 
state or province in Europe where the Reformed 
Church was established had its own liturgy. In 
Switzerland there were as many liturgies as Reformed 
cantons. In Scotland they were in use also for at 
least a century after the Reformation, 

These liturgies contain offices for the regular service 
of the Lord’s day; for the administration of the sacra- 
ments; for the ordination of ministers, elders, and 
deacons; for the solemnization of marriage, burial of 
the dead, etc. ; and contain the creed, the Lord’s pray- 
er, confession and absolution, the Gloria in Excelsis, 
Tc Doum,and the Litany and responses, although no 
one book unites all these elements. They a’re all a 
liand-hook for the minister rather than an order of 
worship for the people. 

The first ministers in America brought with them 


the liturgies of those sections of Germany or Switzer- 
land from which they emigrated. These continued in 
common use, particularly in the German congrega- 
tions, though preference was generally given to the 
Palatinate liturgy, until partially superseded by the 
book prepared at the direction of the synod by the 
Rev. Dr. Mayer, and adopted in 1810. This work had 
no historical basis, and never took root. 

General dissatisfaction prevailed with this state of 
things. The great christological movement deepened 
the sense of want; and there was an earnest demand 
for a liturgy answerable in spirit and character to 
the churchly and sacramental ideas which had been 
revived in the Church. A liturgical committee was 
accordingly appointed in 1840. Specific instructions 
were given in 1852. The book known as the Provi- 
sional Liturgy was reported to synod in 1857, and sub- 
mitted to the churches for trial. This liturgy excited 
a controversy which continued until 186-4, when the 
Eastern Synod, in compliance with an order of the 
General Synod of Pittsburg, referred the work for re- 
vision to a committee consisting of Rev. Drs. Schafif, 
Ncvin, Wolff, Zaeharias, Bomberger, Harbaugh, Por- 
ter, Fisher, Gerhart, and Apple ; and Messrs. John 
Rodenmayer, George Shafer, George C. Welker, and 
Louis H. Steiner, M.D. This committee reported a 
book entitled An Order of Worship for the Reformed 
Church to the Synod of York, 1S6G. After a long and 
animated discussion, a resolution was passed by a vote 
of 53 to 14, authorizing the optional use of the “ Order 
of Worship” within the limits of the Eastern Synod, 
and referring the hook for action to the General Synod, 
which convened at Dayton, Ohio, Nov. 28, the same 
year. The General Synod devoted three days to a 
calm and full discussion of the questions relating to 
doctrine and cultus, when certain resolutions disap- 
proving the book were lost by a vote of 55 to GG. 
Thereupon the book was approved “ as an order of 
worship proper to be used in the congregations and 
families of the Reformed Church” by a vote cf G4 to 
57. The opposition arose chiefly from ministers and 
churches in the West. Of the ministers and churches 
East a very large majority supported the “ Order of 
Worship.” 

This liturgy is not simply a hand-book for the min- 
ister, or a pulpit liturgy, but it is an order in which 
the people take part with the minister in the worship 
of God. Less complicated and shorter in many of its 
offices than the Book of Common Prayer, it unites all 
the historic elements of liturgical worship on the basis 
of the apostolic faith and the custom of the primitive 
Church, modified, however, by the faith, genius, and 
history of the Reformed Church, and adapted to the 
needs of the present age. 

Though not yet formally adopted, many churches 
use the Order of Worship in full, many more use it in 
part, while it is held in high honor by nearly all those 
who do not yet feel prepared to use all its offices regu- 
larly. The hook is daily gaining ground, and the 
probability is that in the course of one or two decades 
of years liturgical worship will become the established 
order of all the churches East, and to a large extent 
also of the churches in the West. 

The government is Presbyterian. Every congrega- 
tion is governed by a consistory, which is composed 
of the pastor, elders, and deacons ; no congregation is 
without cither elders or deacons. They are chosen by 
the communicant members for a term of two, three, or 
four years, generally only two years, and ordained by 
the laying on of hands, and installed. When the term 
expires, the administrative power ceases, but not the 
office. If re-elected, installation is repeated, but not 
ordination. The consistory is subject to the classis, 
which consists of the ministers and an elder from each 
parish within a given district. The classes are sub- 
ject to the synod. The synod is a delegated body, and 
consists of a given number of ministers and elders, 


GERMANUS 


GERMAN REF. CH. IN AMERICA 831 


chosen by four or more adjacent classes. The s}mods 
are subject to the General Synod. This body consists 
of ministers and elders chosen by all the classes of the 
Church. It is the highest judicatory, and the last re- 
sort in all cases respecting government not finally ad- 
judicated by the synods. Every judicatory has legis- 
lative authority within its own sphere; every minis- 
ter and member possesses the right of appeal from a 
lower to a higher court. 

All the children and youth are carefully catechized 
by the pastor once in two weeks, or once or twice a 
week, for a period of from three to nine months in the 
year, the time being determined by the ability of the 
pastor. Some pastors, particularly those located in 
cities and larger towns, have each but one church ; but 
the majority have parishes consisting of from two to 
four churches, and not a few of from five to eight. 
Catechumens possessing the requisite qualifications 
are, after examination in presence of the elders, re- 
ceived into the full communion of the Church by the 
rite of confirmation. The holy communion is com- 
monly administered twice a year, and in many of the 
churches four times. The communicants receive the 
sacred emblems by companies, standing around the al- 
tar. In many of the churches it is still customary to 
administer the communion to the sexes separately; 
first the men come to the altar, and afterwards the 
women. But this old German custom is going into 
disuse. In the English churches men and women ap- 
proach the altar in company; so also in some of the 
German churches. Services preparatory to the cele- 
bration of the hoi}' communion are held on the Satur- 
day or Friday previous. 

The baptism of infants is faithfully and universally 
observed. Children are presented by their parents. 
Sponsors are allowed, but the parents themselves must 
also be present. Baptism may he administered at any 
time and in any suitable place, but an occasion of pub- 
lic worship in the church is held to be most appropriate. 

The principal festivals, Christmas, Good Friday, 
Easter, and Whit-Sundav, are held in high honor, and 
observed with much solemnity. The liturgy has re- 
vived the idea of the church year. In many congre- 
gations, the pulpit teaching and the worship observes 
the concrete historic movement of revelation from Ad- 
vent to Trinity Sunday, and from Trinity Sunday to 
Advent, as set forth in the catholic cycle of Lessons. 
As the liturgy becomes known and is appreciated, so 
does the observance of the church year gain favor. 
Acquiring greater practical power from month to 
month, it is gradually receiving more general confi- 
dence, and being observed in all its parts. 

There are connected with the General Synod 4 syn- 
ods : 1. The Synod of the German Reformed Church 
in the United States, with 10 classes, 290 ministers, 
718 congregations, and 88.003 members ; 2. The Syn- 
od of Ohio and adjacent States, with 8 classes, 130 min- 
isters, 308 congregations, and 20,009 members ; 3. The 
North-western Synod, with 7 classes, 92 ministers, 106 
congregations, and 9811 members ; 4. The Pittsburg 
Synod (in process of formation), which will have about 
44 ministers, 126 congregations, and 9240 members. 
Its statistics are included in synod No. 1 (two thirds) 
and in synod No. 2 (one third). Total, 31 classes, 512 
ministers, 1192 congregations, 118,483 members. Re- 
ceived by confirmation and certificate during the year, 
11,337. Aggregate membership, including those who 
are baptized, but not confirmed, 192,000. 

Institutions of Learning . — Two theological semina- 
ries. Seminary at Mercersburg, Pa., founded in 1825 : 
four professors, twenty-eight students. Seminary at 
Tiffin, Ohio; founded at Canton, O., 1838 ; suspended 
from the fall of 1839 to 1848 ; reopened at Columbus, 
O., Oct., 1848; removed and permanently located at 
Tiffin, O., 1851 : two professors, twenty students. One 
mission -house, Sheboygan, Wis. : three professors, 
twenty-two students. 


Two fully- organized colleges, (1.) Franklin and Mar- 
shall, at Lancaster, Pa. Franklin College, founded at 
Lancaster in 1787 ; and Marshall College, at Mercers- 
burg, in 1836 ; Franklin and Marshall consolidated at 
Lancaster in 1853 : seven professors, 110 students, 442 
alumni. (2.) Heidelberg College, founded at Tiffin, 
O., in 1850 : five professors, 182 students. 

There are, besides, seven classical institutions: Ca- 
tawba College, Newton, N. C. ; Mercersburg College, 
Mercersburg, Pa.; Palatinate College, Myerstown, Pa. ; 
Westmoreland College, Mount Pleasant, Pa. ; Reimers- 
burg Institute, Reimersburg, Pa. ; Calvin Institute, 
Cleveland, O. ; and Ursinus College, Montgomery Co., 
Pa. Mercersburg College is in process of organizing 
a full college course. It has 4 professors and 124 stu- 
dents. Two female seminaries ; one at Allentown, 
Pa., the other at Tyrconnell, Md. 

Periodicals. — Two reviews, four weekly papers, and 
one semi-monthly ; one monthly magazine, and three 
Sunday-school papers. 

There are two printing-establishments ; one at Phil- 
adelphia, Pa., and one at Cleveland, O. 

These statistics represent the condition of the Ger- 
man Reformed Church in America in 1809. 

Literature. — Mercersburg Review (Phila. 10 vols.) ; 
Heidelberg Catechism , by Rev. J. IV. Nevin, D.D. (Phila. 
1847) ; The Life of Rev. Michael Schlatter, by the Rev. 
H. 1 Iarbaugh, D.D. (1857) ; The Fathers of the Reform- 
ed Church (2 vols.), by Rev. Dr. Harbaugh ; The Prin- 
ciple of Protestantism, by Rev. Philip Schaff, D.D. 
(1845); The Mystical Presence, by Dr. Nevin (1846); 
The Liturgical Question, by Dr. Nevin (1802) ; The Ger- 
man Reformat Church, a monograph by Rev. E. V. Ger- 
hart, D.D. (1803) ; Tercentenary Monument (1863, p. 
574) ; Per Ileidelberger Catechismus , by Rev. Dr. Schaff’ 
(1803) ; A History and Criticism of the Ritualistic Move- 
ment in the German Reformed Church , bv the Rev. J. 
H. A. Bomberger, D.D. (1866) ; 1 Indication of the Re- 
vised Liturgy, by Dr. Nevin (1867). Comp, the Hei- 
delberg Catechism in German, Latin, and English, with 
an historical introduction, prepared and published by 
the direction of the German Reformed Church in the 
U. S. of America (tercentenary edition, N. Y., Charles 
Scribner, 1863, p. 277). Also a Liturgy for the use of 
the Ger. Ref. Church in the U. S. of America (1858, p. 
340); revised under the title An Order of Worship for 
the Ref. Ch. (Phila., S. IL Fisher & Co., 1807, p. 388). 
See also Creed and Customs, by Rev. George B. Russell, 
A.M. (Phila., S. R. Fisher & Co., p. 420). (E. V. G.) 

German Theology. See Theology, German. 

Germanus, the name of three patriarchs of Con- 
stantinople. (1.) The first was transferred from the 
see of Cyzicus to that of Constantinople in 715, and 
was a zealous defender of image-worship, for which he 
was degraded, in a council held at Constantinople in 
730. He died in 740, and was anathematized by a 
council at Constantinople, fourteen years afterwards 
(754). A treatise of his, 7 rtpi rwv ay'uov oitcovperucibv 
(tvvoclov, etc., may be found in II. Justel’s Bibliotheca 
Canonica, and in Le Moyne, Varia Sacra: there also 
remain some letters and homilies of his (Bib. Max. 
Pair, xvii, xx). His remains are all given in Migne, 
Patrologia Grceca, tom. 98. See also Fabricius, Bibli- 
otheca Grccca , ed. Harles, xi, 155 ; Ceillier, Auteurs Sa- 
cres (Paris, 1862), xi, 36 sq. 

(11.) Germanus the younger, a monk of the Propon- 
tis, who became patriarch in 1222 ; but as Constantino- 
ple was then in the hands of the Latins, he resided at 
Nicasa, in Bithynia. He corresponded with pope Greg- 
ory IN, in hope of bringing about a union between 
the Eastern and Roman churches, but in vain. He 
was deposed in 1240, restored again to his see in 1254, 
and died in 1255. II is Epistles and Homilies are given 
by Migne, Patrologia Grceca, tom. 140. 

(TIL) Germanus, bishop of Adrianople, became pa- 
triarch of Constantinople in 1267. He accepted the 


GERMAN US 


832 


GERMAN VERSIONS 


honor with great reluctance, and resigned it in a few 
months, to retire to a monastery. — Neander, Ch . llist. 
iii, 203; Fabricius, Bibl. Graca, vii, 10; viii, 84; xi, 
162 ; Cave, Hist. Lit. i, 621 ; ii,289; Hoefer, Nouv. Bi- 
ographic Ginerale , xx, 238. 

Germanus okAi’XKHre, St., one of the most strik- 
ing figures in the period of the fall of the Roman empire, 
was horn in Auxerre, in Roman Gaul, of illustrious par- 
ents, about A. D. 380. He was placed in the best schools 
of Gaul, and having tinishedhis early education, he went 
to Rome, to pursue a course of civil law and study elo- 
quence. His merit, and his marriage with a lady of 
high rank, brought him into notice at the court of the 
emperor Ilonorius, and procured for him, besides the 
government of Auxerre, the office of duke or general 
of the troops of several provinces. Although a Chris- 
tian, he was a skilful hunter, and was in the habit of 
hanging on a large tree, in one of the public squares, 
the heads of the animals he had killed. This custom 
bearing some resemblance to pagan superstitions, St. 
Amatorius, bishop of Auxerre, one day, when the duke 
was absent, caused the tree to be cut down, and the 
monuments of his vanity to be removed. Germanus 
suffered this correction with impatience, and threaten- 
ed to be revenged, but God ordered it otherwise. Am- 
atorius was advanced in years, and discerning in Ger- 
man us such qualities as were calculated to make a 
great bishop, he convoked in his church an assembly 
of the faithful, and Germanus being present, he seized 
on him, and compelled him to assume the ecclesiasti- 
cal habit, without giving him time to reflect, and in- 
formed him that he was to be his successor. On the 
death of Amatorius, May 1, 418, Germanus was elected 
bishop by the clergy and people. From that time he 
was completely changed. lie practised his episcopal, 
duties to their fullest extent. The Christians of Great 
Britain, frightened at the progress of Pelagianism in 
their island, had applied to pope Celestine and the bish- 
op of Gaul to obtain aid, and they, in an assembly held 
in 428-9, sent them Germanus, with whom they joined 
Lupus, bishop of Troyes. Both set off instantly. This 
mission had great success at the time, but Pelagianism 
reappeared seventeen or eighteen years afterwards, 
and Germanus went again with Severus, bishop of 
Troyes, to extirpate it. To prevent its return, Ger- 
manus established schools in Britain, which afterwards 
became celebrated. He had scarcely arrived again at 
Auxerre, when the Armoricans entreated him to me- 
diate for them with Evaricus, who had been sent by 
yEtins to chastise them for an imputed rebellion. Ger- 
manus set out immediately, saw the prince of the bar- 
barians, and succeeded in arresting his march. As 
this affair could not end without the consent of the em- 
peror, Germanus went to Ravenna, where the court 
was then held: he was received with great honor by 
Placidia, mother of Valentinian 111. This work was 
the last which the holy bishop undertook. He died in 
Ravenna, on the 31st of July, 448, after having been 
thirty years bishop of Auxerre. lie is commemorated 
as a saint on the 31st of July. — Hook, Eccl. Bing, v, 303; 
Smith, It dig. of Anc. Britain, p. 1G8 ; Neander, Light in 
Dark Places , p. 50-54 ; Baillet, I7es <Jes Saints , July 3. 

Germanus, St., of Paris, was born at Antun, A.I). 
496; was made deacon 533, presbyter 53G, and bishop 
of Paris 555. He was noted for his strict asceticism, 
for his great charity to the poor, and especially for his 
zeal in the purchase and redemption of slaves. He 
died in 57G. There is extant a letter of his to queen 
Bruneliild (Condi, tom. v). lie was buried in St. Vin- 
cent’s church, which was burnt by the Normans in 
88 1 ? and reconstructed in 11G3, under tire name of St. 
Germain dcs Pres. The monks of St. Germain, of the 
Benedictine rule, have their abbey here. Bouillart, 
Benedictine of St. Maur, published in 1724 a Ilistoire 
dr I'abbaye de St. Germain, iri which he gives a life of 
Germanus. The aristocratic quarter of St. Germain in 
Paris is named from the abbey and church. — Migne ; 


Baillet, Hes des Saints , May 28 ; Ceillier, Auteurs Sa- 
cres (Paris, 18G2), xi, 306. 

German Versions of the Holy Scriptures. 
1. Eaiiy Versions . — There is no certain trace of any at- 
tempt to translate the Scriptures into the vernacular 
dialects of the German people previous to the latter 
half of the 9th century. Though Charlemagne en- 
joined upon his clergy the study of the Bible and the 
delivering of expositions of it to the people in the vul- 
gar tongue, there is no evidence for the assertion haz- 
arded by Usher (De Script. Vernac. p. 109) and others 
that German versions of the Bible were made bv his 
order ; nor is the statement that a Saxon poet had, 
by order of his son Lewis, versified the whole Bible 
(Flacius 111. Catal. Test. p. 93) better supported. It is 
to tbe poetical narratives of the life of our Saviour 
which appeared after the middle of the 9th century, 
that the beginnings of Biblical translation among the 
Germans are to be traced. The Krist of Otfried of 
Weissenburg (in A.I). 860) ; the Ileliand , by an un- 
known author, and perhaps about the same time, are 
the earliest documents of which anything certain can 
be said. Of both of these editions have been printed ; 
the best are, of the Knst, that by E. G. Graff (Konigsb. 
1831); and of the Ileliand , those of J. A. Schmeller, 
with a glossary (Miinch. 1840), and J. Ti. Kone, with a 
translation (Miinst. 1855). Some fragments of a very 
ancient translation of Matthew have been published 
by St. Endlicher and II. Hoffmann, 1834, and by J. F. 
Massmann, 1841, from a codex in the library at Yi- 
| enna; the dialect in this version is very rude, and, if 
' not provincial, would seem to point to an earlier date 
than the 9th century. Versions of the Psalter seem to 
j have been executed in considerable numbers in the 
10th century ; one of these, by Notker Labeo, abbot of 
| St. Gall, is given by Sehilter (Ties. vol. i), and others 
; anonymous are to be found in Graff’s Deutsche Inter- 
linear versionen der Psalmen (Quad. 1839). A para- 
phrase of the Song of Songs, in Latin verse and Ger- 
man prose, by William of Ebersberg in Bavaria (eir. 
1080), has been edited in Schilter’s Thes. i, and sepa- 
rately by Merida (Leyd. 1598), Freher (Worms, 1631), 
j and recently, with additional fragments of other parts 
of Scripture, by Hoffmann (Berk 1827). This scholar 
has also edited, in the 2d vol. of his Fundgruben , a met- 
rical translation of Genesis and part of Exodus, be- 
longing to the same period or a little later. To the 
13th century belongs the chronicle of Rudolf von IIo- 
|icncms, which is a sort of poetical version of the his- 
torical parts of the O. T. ; of this many MSS. exist, 
and an edition has been published, but from a bad text, 
by Schiitze (Hamb. 1779). Several works of a similar 
kind, in which the Biblical narratives are set forth, 

| sometimes with apocryphal additions, were produced 
about this time; of these, one, which exists in various 
dialects and in numerous codices, is a version of the 
historical parts of Scripture in prose, composed partly 
from the poetical versions already extant, partly trans- 
lated from the Vulgate (Massmann, Die Kaiser chronik, 
iii, 54). Formal translations from the Vulgate began 
now to be multiplied ; of these MSS. exist, though the 
names of the authors have for the most part perished 
(Reiske, De J em. Germ, ante Lutherum , 1697 ; Sehdber, 
Bericht. rnn alien Dentschen geschnebenen Bibeln , 1763; 
Rosenmiiller, Hist. Interpr. v, 174, etc.). Out of these, 
though by what process we are unable to describe, 
came the complete version of the Bible in German, 
which was in the possession of the people before the 
invention of printing, and of which copies were multi- 
plied to a great extent as soon as that art came into 
operation. Before 1477 five undated editions, the four 
earlier at Mayence and Strasburg, as is believed, the 
fifth at Augsburg, as the book itself attests, had been 
printed ; and between 1477 and 1522, nine editions, 
seven at Augsburg, one at Nuremberg, and one at 
Strasburg, were issued. Several editions of the Psal- 
ter also appeared, and one of the Gospels, with tbe 


GERMAN VERSIONS 


833 


GERMAN VERSIONS 


Perieopae from the Epistles. Collectors tell also of a 
translation of Ruth by Boschenstayn, 1525; of Malaehi 
by Iletzer, 1526 ; of Hosea by Capito, 1527, and other 
similar attempts (liietlerer, Nachriclilen II ., 8vo, sq.). 
An important place must be also assigned t£> the trans- 
lation of the N. T. into Danish by Hans Mikkelsen 
(Leips. 1524) ; which, though avowedly “ret effter la- 
tinen vdsatthe,” bears numerous traces of indepen- 
dence of the Vulgate, and of being made directly from 
the Greek (Henderson, Dissertation on Ilans Mikkelsen' s 
jV. 7 7 ., Copenh. 1818). Of translations into Low Ger- 
man, one was printed at Cologne, 1480 ; another at Lii- 
beek, 1498; and a third at Halberstadt, 1522. 

2. Luther's Version. — The appearance of this consti- 
tutes an epoch, not only in the history of the Church, 
but also in that of German literature and of the Ger- 
man people. Luther’s version is a permanent monu- 
ment of the author’s ability and indomitable perse- 
verance. Luther had few helps in his arduous work. 
His exegetical aids were limited to the Septuagint, the 
Vulgate, a few Latin fathers, the N. T. of Erasmus, and 
such Hebrew as could be learned from the imperfect 
elementary books then extant. He had, however, val- 
uable coadjutors in Melancthon, Bugenhagen. Jonas, 
Aurogallus, and Creuziger, whom he constantly con- 
sulted, especially when any difficulty occurred. He 
had access also to the Rabbinical expositions through 
some learned Jews. But the main burden of the work 
rested with himself, and it was to his own resources he 
had chiefly to trust for success. Of the patient toil he 
bestowed upon it some idea may be formed from what 
he himself says of his labors on the book of Job : “ On 
Job, M. Philip, Aurogallus, and I, worked so that some- 
times in four days we had hardly succeeded in accom- 
plishing three lines.” With what anxious care he 
sought to perfect his work may be seen from the IMS. 
of the third part of his translation, containing Job, 
Psalms, and the writings of Solomon, still preserved in 
the Royal Library at Berlin, written in his own hand, 
and exhibiting the corrections which he made in the 
style and expression before sending it to press. Not 
unfrequently as many as three forms of expression, 
and sometimes more, occur, between which he hesi- 
tated before flnallv fixing on the one which he would 
print, lie spent on the work in all twelve years. 
The N. T., completed by him in the Wartburg, appear- 
ed in 1522; the five books of Moses (Das A Ite Testa- 
ment^ Deutsche th. i) in 1523; the other historical books 
as far as Esther (Das A. T. Deutsch , th. ii) in the close 
of the same year; Job, Psalms, and the Solomonic 
writings (Das A. T., th. iii) in 1524; between 1526 
and 1531 several of the prophetic writings were issued, 
and in 1532 appeared the collective body of the Proph- 
ets as th. iv of Dus A. T. Deutsch. The Book of Wis- 
dom was issued in 1529, and the rest of the apocryphal 
books in 1533 and 1534. The whole Bible was thus 
completed, and appeared under the title “ Biulia : d. 
i. die gan:.e heilige Schrift. Deutsch , Martin Luther, 
Wittenberg. Gedruckt durch Ilans Lufft, 1534,” fol. 
(Pisehon, Die hohe Wichtigkeit der Ueberselz. der JJ. S. 
durch Dr. M. Luther , fieri. 183 1). Of this work thirty- 
eight editions were printed in Germany before 1580, 
besides seventy-two of the N. T., and innumerable re- 
prints of other smaller portions (Panzer, p. 38G). 

3. Zurich Bible. — This is a combination of Luther’s 
translation of the other books with a new translation 
of the prophetical writings by Con. Pellican, Leo Judii, 
Theod. Bibliander, etc. It appeared in 1524, and was 
reprinted in 1527, and twice in 1580. In 1531 another 
edition appeared, with a new translation of the poetical 
books (Panzer, p. 2G0). The Worms Bible , 1529, is a 
work of the same kind as the Zurich Bible. 

4. Versions from Luther's Bible in the other Teutonic 
Dialects. — 1. Low Getmiau, by J. Iloddersen, 1533 and 
often ; 2. Danish , N. T., 1524, Bible, 1550 : this is found 
also in Hutter’s Polyglot; 3. Swedish , N. T., 152G, by 
Laurentius Andrea, Bible, 1541, by Laurent, and Olaus 

III.— G G G 


Petri ; 4. Icelandic , N. T. 1540, Bible 1584, by Gudb. 
Thorlakson, bishop of Holum ; 5. Dutch , N. T. 152G, 
Antw., printed by Liesvelt, whence this is called the 
Liesvelt N. T. ; the whole Bible w r as translated anew 
after Luther into Dutch by Ad. Viseher in 1648, and 
this is the existing authorized version for the Dutch 
Lutherans ; G. Pomeranian , 1588. 

5. Versions of the Reformed Church. — Of these the 
first was the production of David Parens, and appeared 
in 1579. It w’as superseded by that of J. Piseator in 

1602, of which many editions have appeared. A trans- 
lation of the N. T., by Amaiulus Polanus, appeared in 

1603. In 1GG5 a new translation for the use of the 
Swiss churches appeared at Zurich, the authors of 
which were Jlottinger, Suicer, Ftisslin, and others. 
In Holland various attempts were made to produce 
versions direct from the originals. In 155G J. Uiten- 
hoven issued the N. T., and in 1562 the w hole Bible ; 
and in 1587 appeared the Bible translated by J. Ilackius, 
which chiefly follow's the Geneva [French] Bible. 

6. Authorized Versions. — In the year 1618 the Synod 
of Dort appointed a commission of 22 members to pre- 
pare a new r version ; this appeared in 1637, and re- 
ceived the authorization of the States General. This 
is the authorized Dutch version. The Danish version 
was completed in 1607 by P. J. Resen, and in 1647 ap- 
peared w'ith the royal sanction, after it had been care- 
fully revised by Hans Svaning, archbishop of Zealand. 
Tin} Icelandic version received its permanent form in 
1644 from Thorlak Skuleson, the grandson of Thorlak- 
son, and his successor in the episcopate. Tire author- 
ized Swedish version was completed under the au- 
spices of Gustavus III. ; it consists of a revised edition 
of the w'ork of Andrea and Petri, and appeared in 1618. 

7. Roman Catholic Versions.— The earliest of these is 
the N. T. of Emser, “nach lawt der christlichc Kirchen 
bew’crten Text,” etc., sine loe. 1527, fol., Leipz. 1529,, 
8vo, and often since. In 1534 the Bible of Dietcn- 
berger (q. v.) appeared at Mayence ; and in 1537, that 
of Eck (q. v.) at Ingolstadt. Previous to these, Cas- 
per Ulenberg had translated the Bible in accordance 
with the Sixtine text of the Vulgate, and this transla- 
tion, revised by t lie Jesuits at Mayence in 1661, ap- 
peared as Die Catholische Bibel. Revised editions 
were issued by Ehrhard ill 1722, and by Cartier in 
1751; and it has been often reprinted botli with and 
without the Latin text. More recent versions by Ro- 
man Catholics are those of Salzmann (Lux. 1770), 
Wittola (Vien. 1775), Weitenauer (Augs. 1777), Fleis- 
chutz (Fuld. 1778), Rosalino (Vien. 1781), Fischer 
(Prag. 1784), Braun (Vienna, 1786), Lauber (1786), 
Mutschelle (Munich, 1789), Weyl (May, 1789), Krach 

i (Aug. 1790), Brentano, Derescr, and Scliolz (1790- 

> 1833), Babor (1805), Van Ess (1807), Schnappfinger 
(1807), Widemann (1809), Kistemaker (1825), Seholz 
(1828), Allioli (1838), Loch and Reischl (1857). Of 
these, the majority are confined to the 1ST. T. The trans- 
lations of Van Ess, Seholz, and Allioli have been re- 
peatedly issued. Gossner, pastor of the Bohemian 
Church in Berlin, published a translation of the N. T. 
from the Greek in 1815, which lias often been reprinted. 

8. Other Versions . — In 1G30 J. Crell issued a German, 
translation of the Bible in the interests of Socinianism ; 
and in 16G0 another, in the interests of Arminianism, 
w\as published by Jer. Felbinger. The Remonstrant 
party in Holland published a translation in Dutch, 
made by Chr. Hartsoeker, in 1680. In 1666 n Jewish 
translation of the O. T. into German was published by 
Joseph Athias ; this, along w ith the versions of Luther, 
Piseator, Caspar Ulenberg, the Dutch A. V., and a ver- 
sion of the K. T. bv J. H. Pteitzen, printed in parallel 
columns, w as published under the title of Biblia Pen - 
tapla (3 vols. 4to, Ilamb. 1711). Of German ver- 
sions of more recent date there are many. Those of 
Triller (1703), Reiz (1712), Junkherrot (1732), Heu- 
mann (1748), Benge! (1753), Miehaelis (1769-85), Sil- 

l lig (1778), Seiler (1783), Stolz (1795), the Berleburg 


GERMANY 


834 


GERMANY 


Bible (172G, etc.), belong to the Lutheran Church; 
those of Grynanis (3 vols. 8vo, Basle, 177G), and Voege- 
lin (Zurich, 1781) to the liefonned. Belonging to the 
jiresent century are the translations of Preiss (1811), 
Schafer (181G), Merer (1829), [Bichter and Pleissner] 
(1830), Bockel (1832), Alt (1837), Von tier llcycl (1852), 
chiefly of the N. 1’. only. But all these yield in im- 
portance to the work of De Wette, prepared original ly 
in conjunction with August! (G vols., Heidelh. 1809- 
14), subsequently wholly by himself (3 vols., 1831-33, 
4th ed. 1858). The Jewish version by Arnheim, Burst, 
and Sachs, under the editorship of Zunz (Berlin, 1838), 
is also deserving of notice. Finally we notice the 
careful translations in Phillippson’s Israelitische Bibel 
(1858) and Bunsen’s Bibelwerh (1858 sq.). — Kitto, s. v. 

Germany. I. Ancient Religion of. — The informa- 
tion we now possess concerning the religion of the 
tribes of Germania Magna , such as the Alemans, Sax- 
ons, Franks, etc., is very incomplete and disconnect- 
ed. The Greek and Latin authors mention the names 
of but a few deities, who seem to have been to some 
extent similar hi their attributes to their own gods. 
The Christian writers also mention them onty in so far 
as is necessary for their purpose, and their views are 
naturally colored with their own opinions. The Scan- 
dinavian mythology must originally have been very 
closely connected with that of Germany ; but we can 
get no light from that quarter, as we do* not know the 
early period of the former. It is clear that at an 
early period the Celtic element was infused in the Ale- 
man and the Frank, while among the northern tribes, 
the Slavonic, Lithuanie, and Finnic myths were intro- 
duced ; while a tendency towards the Greek worship 
is also perceptible. As for the divinities of the ancient 
Germans, Ciesar states that they worshipped only such 
as visibly exerted a decided influence over events ; lie 
particularly mentions three: jthe Sun, Vulcan, and the 
Moon. The domestic divinities werre : 1 Yuotan (Wo- 
den), the supreme god, and his wife Freia , the goddess 
of the household and of marriage ; Zio , the god of 
war ; Fro, who watched over the crops, and his wife 
Frouica; afterwards came Rhol or Paltar (the Balder 
of the north), Fosite , and Thunar (Donar), god of the 
clouds and storms. The progenitor of the human race 
was Tuisco, who combined the attributes of the Greek 
Uranos and Zeus, and whose son Mannus is identical 
with the subsequent Irmin , or the Greek Hercules. 
Among the special divinities of different tribes were 
Kerthus (commonly Bertha'), goddess of fertility and 
the chase; the A Ices, two brothers (a sort of Castor 
and Pollux) ; Costra , in Saxony, etc. Other goddesses 
appear to have been merely aliases of these : thus Hlu- 
dana and Fisa were identical with Freia, etc. Among 
the inferior divinities (daemons) were the Riesen (gi- 
ants), physically resembling men, who were supposed 
to belong to a former period of creation, and dwelt in 
the mountains, where they erected gigantic fortifica- 
tions, and defended themselves against intruders with 
stones and rocks. In direct contrast from these were 
the Zirerge (pigmies), who appeared among men on 
special occasions, sometimes to impart gifts and bless- 
ings to them, at other times to do them evil and frus- 
trate their plans. There were also Berggeister (spirits 
of the mountains), called also Elbe or El fen (elves); 
Waldgeister (spirits of the forests), especially the Wild 
Hunter, Schratz ; Wassergeister (spirits of the waters), 
or Nixen. There were also a quantity of lares, or 
favorable household gods of an inferior degree, while 
tormenting genii haunted the houses and their neigh- 
borhoods at night, disturbing slumberers and throw- 
ing stones at passers-by. Horses and bulls were con- 
sidered sacred, and bears, wolves, and foxes were 
objects of respectful awe. The gods and goddesses 
often took the form of birds, and among these the ea- 
gle, raven, and -woodpecker were regarded with the 
highest veneration. The cuckoo was supposed to pos- 
sess the gift of prophecy. Serpents also were wor- 


shipped, and the fear they inspired gave rise to the 
fable of the dragon. The cosmogony of Germany 
seems to have greatly varied with the times and in the 
different tribes ; the general belief -was that the gods 
originated out of chaos, created the world, and gov- 
erned it. Belief in continued existence after death 
was shown by the idea of the great city of the dead, 
Walhulht. The mode of worship was very simple, if 
compared with that of the Greeks and Homans, or 
even of the Celts. The temples were not generally 
structures made by men, but often trees or groves 
which the deity was supposed to inhabit, revealing 
himself in the rustling of the leaves. Some of the 
gods dwelt in the mountains, caves, or streams. Yet 
there were also regular temples, of which vestiges are 
yet found, and -which contained images of the gods; 
for, although Cajsar and Tacitus deny their existence, 
there is oft mention made in the early times of Chris- 
tianity of the destruction of idols in Germany [see Ir- 
mexsul], and images of the sun and the moon have 
been found (though these may also have belonged to 
Celtic or Slavonic tribes). The holy places were moun- 
tains or rocks ; e. g. the Blocksberg, the chain of moun- 
tains between Silesia and Bohemia, etc. The woods 
and trees, especially the oak, beech, and linden-tree, 
were objects of particular veneration. Unbelievers 
were not allowed to touch them, or to enter the groves. 
The worship consisted in prayer to the gods ; the sacri- 
fices were either propitiatory or thank-offerings ; they 
also took place before consulting the omens, going to 
war, electing a king, or on any other special occasion. 
These sacrifices consisted generally in horses, bulls, 
goats, etc., and even human beings. The color of the 
animal was generally white. Besides this, on all fes- 
tive occasions, a portion of the feast was offered to the 
household gods, and laid before their shrine. No 
mention is made of the general feasts of the Germans 
in the earlier times, } T et it is considered likely that they 
had at least as principal ones the Juel , Easter , and the 
Summer feasts. The priests took part in legislation 
and the wars as well as in worship, and in war they 
carried the sacred images or symbols against the ene- 
my. In the household the head of the family could 
act as its priest. Chosen women, called Airlines, con- 
secrated the horses, and prophesied by consulting the 
omens at the sacrifices. See Schedius, Be diis germei- 
nis (Amst. 1648) ; G. Sehiitz, Ejercitationes ad Germa- 
nium sacrum gentilem facientes (Lpz. 1748) ; Moser, De 
vett. Gennanorum et Gallorum theologia (1749); Meyer, 
Erortcrung d. ehemaligen Religionswe.sens d. Deutschen 
(Lpz. 175G) ; Hermann, De jntriori Dei ctdtu naturali 
veterum Germrinorum (Baireuth, 17G1); Siebenkees, 
Yon der Religion der altcn Dentschcn (Altdorf, 1771); 
Reinliold, Beitriige einer Mgthologie, der alien D. Gutter 
(Miinst. 1791); Loos, D. Gotterhlire der alt. Deutschen 
(Col. 1804) ; Scheller, Mgthologie d. nordischen a. deut- 
schen Vbllcer (Regen sb. 181G); Braun, Der relig. der alt . 
Deutschen (Mainz, 1819) ; Mono, Gesch. d. E< id cut hums 
im nordischen Europa (Lpz. 1819-23, 2 vols.) ; Bonisch, 
D. Gutter Deutschlands (Kamenz, 1830) : Lcgis, Hand - 
buch d. alteleutschen n. norelisch. Gotterlehre (Lpz. 1831) ; 
Barth, Altdeutscke Religion (Leipz. 1832); J. Grimm, 
Deutsche Mgthologie (Gotting. 1835 ; 2d ed. 1844) ; Sim- 
rock, JIandbuch der D. Mgthologie (Munich, 1844-55, 2 
vols.) ; J. \V. Wolf, Zeitschrift fur D. Mgth. u. Silten- 
kunde (Gott. 1853-55, 2 vols.). (J. N. I J .) 

II. J 1 istory of Christianity in Germany. — As some of 
the German tribes were under the rule of the Romans 
at the beginning of the Christian a?ra, Christianity be- 
came known to the Germans at a very early date. 
Some of the episcopal sees, as Cologne, even claim to 
have had disciples of the apostles as their first bishops. 
Peter is said (Baron, ad ann. 4G) to have ordained the 
bishops Eueliarius, Egistns. and Marcianus for Ger- 
many. In 314, when the Council of Arles was held, 
we have trustworthy information of a bishopric in Co- 
logne. In the south of Germany, on the other hand, 


GERMANY 


835 


GERRHENIAN 


we find the first Christians at Augusta Viiulelicorum 1 
(Augsburg), in Rhcetia, into which Christianity was in- 
troduced by the bishop Narcissus, in the time of Dio- 
clesian (284-305). In the following centuries the num- 
ber of bishoprics in Western Germany gradually in- 
creased, and at the beginning of the 6th century we 
find subject to the jurisdiction of the metropolitan of 
Treves, bishops at Cologne, Mentz, Martignv. Worms, 
Spires, besides a number of others whose sees now be- ' 
long to France or Switzerland. Next to south-western 
Germany, it was the south-east in which Christianity I 
made the greatest progress. At the beginning of the 
7th century there were in the two Norieums, or mod- 
ern Bavaria and Austria, proportionally almost as 
many Christian churches as in the other countries of 
the ancient Western empire, and Bavaria, in particular, 
became an entirely Christian state. Even before this 
time many of the German tribes which had invaded 
and conquered the western provinces of the Roman i 
empire had either become Christian or were inclined 
to be so. The Goths received the first announcement 
of Christianity from prisoners taken in war, and a 
Gothic metropolitan had a seat in the Synod of Nictea. 1 
Among the West Gothic princes, Fritigern was favor- | 
able to Christianity, but Athanarich cruelly persecuted 
it. When the Western Goths, conquered by the Iluns. ! 
had to seek refuge in the Ilotnan empire, they had to 
consent to be baptized. The form of Christianity , 
which they then received from the emperor Valcns 
was Arian. Other German tribes, like the Eastern 
Goths and the Vandals, likewise became Christians of 
the Arian faith, which was carried by the German con- 
querors into Spain, Italy, and Northern Africa. To an 
Arian bishop of the West Goths, Ulfilas, Germany is 
indebted for the first German version of the Bible, 
The conversion of Clovis, the king of the Franks, to ; 
the Catholic Church, gave to the German tribes who 1 
had left the fatherland the first orthodox king ; and 
the success of the Franks in their wars with the Arian 
kings, in which they were aided not a little by the 
Catholic subjects of the latter, soon led to the destruc- 
tion of Arianism as a national religion in the Germanic 
world. Under the influence of the Franks, in the be- 
ginning of the 8th century, the Catholic Church press- 
ed forward as far as the Saale and the Elbe, but it was 
under no ecclesiastical regulations, and was much cor- 
rupted by paganism. British monks carried the Gospel 
as far as the Main, and among the Alemanni, but they 
had no connection with Rome. See Columbanus; 
Gall. Winfred, the Anglo-Saxon monk, bettor known 
under the name of Boniface (q. v.), was sent from 
Rome to undertake the conversion of Germany, and 
finally became the apostle of the Germans, and the 
founder of the German Church. lie made the Ger- 
man Church dependent upon Rome, and, in consequence 
of the plenary powers given him by the Roman see, 
was looked upon as the general bishop of Germany. 
The last serious struggle in defence of German pagan- 
ism was made by the Saxons; but, finally acknowledg- 
ing their inability to resist Charlemagne” they resolved 
to adopt the religion of the conquerors, and become 
one nation with the Franks. The Christianization of 
Eastern Germany, which at that time was chiefly in- 
habited by Slavic tribes, was not completed until the 
13th century. 

When the Roman empire bad been revived in the 
German nation by the Othos, the emperor was regard- 
ed as the political head of Christendom in the West, 
and the holy empire as a divine institution. The old 
legal principle that God has divided all power on earth 
between the emperor and the pope was frequently con- 
strued in German)' so as to mean that the emperor car- 
ried the secular sword as a feudal investiture from the 
pope. The efforts of mediaeval popes to enlarge the 
papal power at the expense of the imperial, and even 
to establish the absolute superiority of the pope over 
all secular power and the whole world, led to continual 


wars oetween the emperors and the popes. The popes 
entirely failed to carry through their theocratic idea; 
but the authority of the emperors of Germany, as the 
first among the Christian rulers, likewise steadily de- 
clined. 

In the lGtli century Germany was the birthplace of 
the great reformation of the Church, which substituted 
the Lutheran and Reformed churches for that of Rome 
not only in a large portion of Germany, but in a num- 
ber of other European countries. It seemed at one 
time probable that the whole of the German empire 
might be gained for the Reformation ; but, after many 
wars, one of which, the Thirty Years’ War, was one of 
the fiercest and longest religious wars oil record, the 
activity of the Jesuits and the courts of Austria and 
Bavaria saved a large portion of Germany, especially 
in South Germany, for the old Church. 

The old German empire was dissolved in 1806. In 
1815 the German Confederation was established as a 
league of independent states. Another great change 
in the constitution of the German nation was effected 
by the war of 1866, which united most of the German 
states into the North-German Confederation, under the 
leadership of Prussia, while Austria was wholly ex- 
cluded from Germany. Bavaria, Wurtemberg, Baden, 
and part of Ilesse-Darmstadt were recognised as in- 
dependent South-German states. The Grand-duchy 
of Luxemburg was also released from all connection 
with Germany, and remained a semi-independent state, 
under the rule of the king of Holland. The little 
principality of Lichtenstein, in South Germany, was 
totally ignored at this reconstruction of Germany, and 
likewise formed henceforth an independent state. Our 
Cyclopaedia devotes a special article to Austria, Prus- 
sia, and each of the smaller German states, in which a 
full statement of their Church history and ecclesiasti- 
cal statistics is given. 

In 1868, the number of Protestants, Roman Catho- 
lics, and Jews in the North-German Confederation 
and the South-German states was about as follows : 


North German Confederation. 

South German States 

Vital 


Protestants. 

Rom. Calh. 

Jews. 

20,682,000 

3,051,000 

7.875.000 

4.935.000 

340,200 

133,000 

24,030,000 

12,810,000 

473,200 


See Hansiz, Germania Sacra (2 vols. Augsburg ; 3d 
vol. Vienna, 1755); Holl, Statistica Eccles. German. 
(Manheim, 1788, 2 vols.) ; Germania sacra (St. Blasien, 
1794 and 1797, 2 vols.) ; Rettberg, Kirch enyesch ich te 
Deutschlands (Gotting. 1846 ; thus [1869] far 3 vols.); 
Friedrich, Ki rchen geschichte Deutschlands (Bamberg, 
1867, vol. i; 1868, vol. ii). (A. J. S.) 

Gerobulus, Johannes, a clergyman of the Re- 
formed Church of Holland, was born at Utrecht. He 
was settled successively at Delft, Ennlen, Ylissingen, 
Ghent, Harlingen, Deventer, Harderwyk, and Utrecht, 
lie died at Utrecht Feb. 14, 1606. He translated into 
Latin the East Friesland Catechism, and also wrote a 
defence of the Heidelberg Catechism against Dirk 
Volkertsz. Coornhert, a translation of Beza’s Para- 
ph rase of the Psalms, Advice to the Sick, and an Ac- 
count of the Reformed Church in Utrecht. (J. P. W.) 

Geroch. See Geruocii. 

Geroda, a place mentioned in the Antonine Tables , 
possibly the modern Jerud , a large village on the great 
caravan road from Damascus to Palmyra (Porter, Da- 
mascus, i, 371). — Van dc Velde, Memoir, p. 314. 

Gerrhe'nian (only in the plural, Ytpppvoi v. r. 
Yervrjpoi, Vulg. Gerreni), apparently the designation 
of the inhabitants of a town, which is named in 2 Macc. 
xiii, 24 only as one limit (ewg tmv F.) of the district 
committed by Antioehns Eupator to the government 
of Judas Maccabneus, the other limit being Ptolemais 
(Accho). To judge by the similar expression in de- 
fining the extent of Simon’s government in 1 Macc. 
xi, 59, the specification has reference to the sea-coasfc 


GERSIIOM 


836 


GERSOX 


of Palestine, and, from the nature of the case, the Gcr- 
rhenians, wherever they were, must have been south 
of Ptolemais. Grotius seems to have been the tirst to 
suggest that the town Gerrhou or G err ha (1 'ijjfiov, 
Ptolemy, iv, 5, p. 103; Gerro , Pliny, Nat. Hist, vi, 29; 
rippa, Strabo, xvi, p. 760 ; t’sprt, Sozomen, Hist, Eccl. 
viii, 19) was intended, which lay between Pelusium 
and Khinocolura (wady el-Arish). It lias been point- 
ed out by Ewald ( Geschichte , iv, 365, note) that the 
coast as far north as the latter place was at that time 
in possession of Egypt, and he thereon conjectures that 
the inhabitants of the ancient city of Gerar, south- 
east of Gaza, the residence of Abraham and Isaac, are 
meant. In support of this, Grimm ( Kurzg . Ilandb. ad 
loc.) mentions that at least one MS. reads ftpaju/i'w 7/, 
which would without difficulty be corrupted to Vtppr,- 
vCov. The Syriac version (early, and entitled to much 
respect) has Gozor , by which may be intended either 
(«) the ancient Gezek, which was near the sea — some- 
where about Joppa ; or (b) Gaza, Avhiek appears some- 
times to take that form in these books, llut these are 
evidently conjectural emendations of the text; and 
the objection of Ewald is sufficiently met by observing 
that the place in question was not included in the 
Maccabaian province of Judas, any more than Egypt 
of the parallel passages (1 Macc. xi, 59; Josephus, 
Ant. xiii, 5, 4). — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. See Mac- 
cabeus, J UDAS. 

Ger'shom (Meb. Gershnm [in Chron. usu- 
ally expulsion [see Gersiion], an etymology 

alluded to in Exod. ii, 22, where there is a play upon 
the word, as if written C’j ’“15, or Ger-Sham , q. cl. a 
sojourner there ; in which passage the Sept, preserves 
the form Vgnodp [comp. Josephus, Vtjperoe; ~ eiaXacroQ, 
Ant. ii, 13, 1], but elsewhere Graecizes Vgocnbfi or F/;p- 
erwr), the name of three or four Levites. 

1. The oldest son of Levi (1 Chron. vi, 16, 17, 20, 43 
[in the Ileb.], 62, 71; xv, 7), elsewhere distinctively 
written Gersiion (q. v.). 

2. The elder of the two sons (the second being Elie- 
zer) who were born to Moses in the land of Midian by 
Zipporah (Exod. ii, 22 ; xviii, 4). B.C. 1698. These 
sons of the great lawgiver held no ether rank than 
that of simple Levites, while the sons of their uncle 
Aaron enjoyed all the privileges of the priesthood (1 
Chron. xxiii, 1, 5,16; xxvi, 24), a proof of the rare 
disinterestedness of Moses. Shebuel, one of his (Io- 


nian ent arrangements for the service of Jehovah were 
made (1 Chron. xxiii, 7-11). At this time Gershon 
was represented by the famous Asaph “the seer,” 
whose genealogy is given in 1 Chron. vi, 39-43, and 
also, in part, 20, 21. The family is mentioned once 
again as taking part in the reforms of king Hezekiah 
(2 Chron. xxix, 12, where it should be observed that 
the sons of Asaph are reckoned as distinct from the 
Gershonites). At the census in the wilderness of Si- 
nai the whole number of the males of the Bene-Ger- 
shon was 7500 (Numb, iii, 22), midway between the 
Kohathitcs and the Merarites. At the same date the 
efficient men were 2630 (iv, 40). On the occasion of 
the second census the numbers of the Levites are given 
only in gross (Numb, xxvi, 62). The sons of Gershon 
had charge of the fabrics of the tabernacle — the cover- 
ings, curtains, hangings, and cords (Numb, iii, 25, 26; 
iv, 25, 26); for the transport of these they had two 
I covered wagons and four oxen (vii, 3, 7). In the en- 
campment their station was behind ("“HN) the taber- 
nacle, on the west side (Numb, iii, 23). When on the 
march they went with the Merarites in the rear of the 
first body of three tribes — Judah, Issachar. Zebulun — 
with Beuben behind them. In the apportionment of 
the Levitical cities, thirteen fell to the lot of the Ger- 
shonites. These were in the northern tribes — two in 
Manasseli beyond Jordan, four in Issachar, four in 
Asher, and three in Naphtali. All of these are said 
to have possessed “suburbs,” and two were cities of 
refuge (Josh, xxi, 27-33; 1 Chron. vi, 62, 71-86). It 
is not easy to see what special duties fell to the lot of 
the Gershonites in the service of the tabernacle after 
its erection at Jerusalem, or in the Temple. The sons 
of Jednthun “prophesied with a harp,” and the sons 
of Heman “lifted up the horn,” but for tbe sons of 
Asaph no instrument is mentioned (1 Chron. xxv, 1- 
5). They were appointed to “prophesy” (that is, 
probably, to utter, or sing, inspired words, NX I), per- 
haps after tbe special prompting of David himself 
(xxv, 2). Others of the Gershonites, sons of Laadan, 
had charge of the “treasures of the house of God, and 
over the treasures of the holy things” (xxvi, 20-22), 
among which precious stones are specially named 
(xxix, S). 

In Chronicles the name is, with two exceptions (1 
Chron. vi, 1 ; xxiii, 6), given in the slightly different 
form of “ Gershom.” — Smith, s. v. See Gersiionite. 


scendants, was appointed ruler (‘T3]) of the treasury 
under David (1 Chron. xxvi, 24-28). 

3. The son of one Manasseli (according to the text) 
and father of Jonathan, which last acted as priest to 
the Danites who captured Laish (Judg. xviii, 30) ; but, 
according to a more correct reading, be is not different 
from the son of Moses. See Jonathan’. The Tal- 
mud explains the substitution of “Manasseli” for 
“Moses” in the text by asserting that Jonathan did 
the works of Manasseli, and was therefore reckoned 
in his family ( Baba Bathru , fol. 109, b). See Ma- 
nasseii. 

4. A descendant of Pliinehas, and chief of his house, 
who returned from Babylon with Ezra (Ezra viii, 2), 
B.C. 459. 

Ger'shon (Ileb. Gershon *,* T“T, expulsion , from 
to drive out ; Sept, in Gen. V^poow, elsewhere [and 
usually there also in the Cod. Alex.] Vtcutov ; Joseph, 
r/joffn/njc, Ant. ii, 7, 4), the eldest of the three sons of 
Levi, apparently born before the migration of Jacob’s 
family into Egypt (Gen. xlvi, 11 ; Exod. vi, 16). B.C. 
cir. 1895. But though the eldest born, the families of 
Gershon were outstripped in fame by their younger 
brethren of Kohath, from whom sprang Moses and the 
priestly line of Aaron (see 1 Chron. vi, 2-15). Gcr- 
shon’s sons were Libni an<rShimi (Exod. vi, 17 ; Numb, 
iii, 18, 21 ; 1 Chron. vi, 17), and their families were 
duly recognised in the reign of David, when the per- 


Ger'shonite (Ileb. Gershunni , Sept. ITc- 

(Ttoi’t, but often simply like Gershon , and so A. V. often 
“son of Gershon”), a designation, usually in the plur., 
of the descendants of Gershon, one of the sons of Levi 
(Numb, iii, 21; iv, 24. 27; Josh, xxi, 33; 1 Chron. 
xxiii, 7 ; 2 Chron. xxix, 12). Their office, (hiring the 
inarches in the wilderness, was to carry the vails and 
curtains belonging to the tabernacle, on the western 
side of which they encamped (Numb. iii. 23-26; xxvi, 
57). In tbe singular the term is applied to Laadan (1 
Chron. xxvi, 21) and Jehiel (1 Chron. xxix, 8). 

Ger'son {Tfioaibi’), the Greek form (1 Esdr. viii, 
29) of the name Gekshom (q. v.). 

Gerson, Jean Charlter ( Doctor Christ iemissinms'), 
one of the greatest names in the history of France and 
of the Galilean Church. He was named Gerson from 
a village in the diocese of Kheims, where he was born, 
Dec. 14, 1363. He entered the college of Navarre in 
1377, and passed through all the degrees. He then 
studied theology seven years under the grand master 
Fierre d’Ailly, whom lie succeeded as chancellor of the 
university and prebendary of Notre Dame in 1396. 
Here lie strenuously devoted himself to improving the 
course of theological study, on which his views may 
be seen in a letter to D’Ailly, dated April 1, 1400, De 
I reformations Theologies- {Opera, vol. i). But the diffi- 
1 culties of his position were very great. The univer- 
I sity was in disorder ; the state was torn by contending 


GERSON 


837 


GERSON 


factions ; the Church was divided by the great papal 
schism which began in 1378, when Urban VI was elect- 
ed pope at Rome, and Clement VII at Avignon. Ger- 
son found so much opposition in his efforts to reform 
theology, and to bring peace to the Church, that he 
decided" to retire from Paris to the quiet charge of the 
cathedral at Bruges, a preferment given to him by 
Philip of Burgundy. At last he gave up this purpose, 
and gave up, with it, the tranquillity of his whole life. 
Gerson was more than once deputed to the popes dur- 
ing the schism. In a memoir, De imitate ecclesiasti- 
ca, he defended the Council of Pisa (q. v.), and con- 
ducted himself in a firm though prudent manner when 
the council proceeded to depose Gregory XII and Ben- 
edict XIII, and to elect Alexander Y. It was during 
the sitting of this council that he published his famous 
treatise De auferibilitate Paper, to prove that there are 
cases in which the assembled Church may command 
two rivals to desist from their strife, and has a right 
to depose them if they refuse, for the sake of peace and 
unity. The Council of Constance (q. v.) opened a new 
field for his talent; lie took a place there as ambassa- 
dor from king Charles VI, from the Church of France, 
and from the University of Paris, and he directed all 
the measures which were adopted respecting John 
XXI 1 1, who had succeeded Alexander V, and whose 
licentious conduct had tended rather to increase than 
to allay the schism. In this council Gerson and D’Ail- 
ly were the chief leaders in the so-called reforming 
party. The discourses which Gerson on various occa- 
sions pronounced during the council, and the treatises 
which lie published, were intended principally to show 
that the Church may reform itself as well in its gov- 
ernors as in its members ; and that it lias the power of 
assembling, without the consent of the pope, when he re- 
fuses to convoke it; to prove the necessity of holding 
councils, as well general as special ; to prescribe the 
payment of first-fruits, and to extirpate simony, which 
had become very common. lie had established, as the 
basis of the decrees of the council, the doctrine of the 
supremacy of the Church in all which concerns faith 
and morals, and on this subject a discourse on the Im- 
maculate Conception has been ascribed to him, but 
which was, in fact, pronounced at the Council of Basle 
after his death. It was principally through his efforts 
that the council ‘‘declared itself independent of all 
popes, and superior to them.” The piety of Gerson, 
though strong and zealous, was neither superstitious 
nor credulous ; he denounced, in his treatise Contra sec- 
tam Flagellant ium, the abuse made of flagellation, of 
which Vincent Ferrier was the advocate. lie also 
composed a book, De probatione spirituum , in which he 
gave rules for distinguishing false revelations from true 
ones. The pretended visions of St. Bridget would have 
been condemned at his instigation had they not found 
an apologist in the cardinal Torquemada; and though 
his theology was professedly mystical as opposed to 
scholasticism, he opposed the theories of John Rus- 
broeck, of the passive union of the soul in the Deity, 
which is similar to the pure love of the Quietists. lie 
also wrote against D’Ailly on judicial astrology, which 
was then in high repute among the princes of Europe, 
and which he combated with great success, even in his 
old age, against the physicians of Lyons and Mont- 
pellier. Before that time, his treatise on this subject, 
De cistrologia reformat a, had procured for him the 
praise of the learned bishop of Cambrny. In another 
treatise, De erroribvs circa artem magi cam, he attacks 
the superstitious errors of magic and the prejudices of 
the empirics. With regard to toleration, Gerson was 
involved in all the errors of his times. At the trial 
of John IIuss (q. v.), his writings and speeches con- 
tributed greatly to the condemnation of that eminent 
reformer, who was burnt by order of the Council of 
Constance, July G, 1415. lie took a similar share in 
the prosecution of Jerome of Prague (martyred May 
BO. 1416). “ Cut off,” said he, in a letter to the arch- 


bishop of Prague, “the heresies, with their authors, 
and hum them.” He called this terrible punishment 
a “merciful cruelty.” Gerson’s hopes for a reform of 
the Church at the Council of Constance wore bitterly 
disappointed. The election of Martin V (Nov. 11, 
1417) put an end to all hope of reform, and Gerson re- 
tired, fatigued and discouraged, from the scene of ster- 
ile disputes. He had contributed by his writings to 
the revocation of a bull of Alexander V in favor of the 
preaching friars, against the privileges of the clergy 
and of the universities. Gerson’s zeal raised against 
him many enemies, and the fear of the dangers to 
which he would be exposed from the Burgundian fac- 
tion induced him to take refuge in Germany, disguised 
as a pilgrim, about the time of the last sittings of the 
Council of Constance. In Bavaria he composed his 
De Consolatione Theologi(e,a mixture of prose and verse, 
containing an apology for his conduct at the Council 
of Constance. Soon after he retired into Austria, 
where the duke offered him an asylum at Vienna. In 
1419 he returned to France, and took up his abode at 
the monastery of the Celestines at Lyons, of which his 
brother was prior. Here he spent his remaining years 
in catechising poor children, of whom he required no 
other reward than their simple prayer, “ Lord, have 
mercy on thy poor servant Gerson.” lie died July 
12, 1429. 

We now state briefly the relations of Gerson to the 
Church, to theology, and to philosophy. (1.) As to the 
Church, his whole life was spent in mourning over its 
abuses and corruptions, and in struggles for reforma- 
tion. Full of respect for the papacy, which he consid- 
ered necessary to the existence of the Church, he nev- 
ertheless opposed both its spiritual and temporal en- 
croachments. lie looked upon the dogma of the in- 
fallibility and consequent inviolability of the popes as 
a remnant of superstition which could not be extir- 
pated too soon. To the whole mass of the faithful, as- 
I sembled in general council, he attributed alone infalli- 
bility, the power of binding and loosing, the right of 
deciding, without appeal, all matters pertaining to 
faith and discipline, and that of judging the pope him- 
self, whom his high position does not render impeccable. 
“Lot the ecclesiastical power,” said ho, “so restrict 
j itself within its natural limits as to remember that 
secular autborit}', even among the heathen, has its dis- 
tinct rights, its laws, its verdicts, on which the spiritu- 
al power must guard from encroaching, lest the secular 
power miglTt also encroach on the faith and lawful 
rights of the Church.” By his settled doctrine of the 
relation existing between the papacy and the general 
I councils on the one hand, and between the spiritual au- 
thority and the temporal power on the other, Gerson 
may be considered as one of the originators of Galli- 
canism (q. v.), and the forerunner of Bossuet (q. v.). 
The spirit of the famous “ four propositions” of 1G82 
breathes in every page of the writings of the chancel- 
lor of the university. (2.) There are two elements to 
be distinguished in Gerson’s philosophy : the outward 
scholastic element, with its pedantic divisions and 
subtle distinctions, and the mystical element, which 
lifted his soul, thirsting for God, above the dry forms 
of the schools into the superior sphere ofineftaI.de love. 
Gerson distinguishes in the nature of the soul a double 
set of faculties, whose highest degree is the simple un- 
derstanding, and whose highest effort is the instructive 
| perception of spiritual truths ; and the affective facul- 
ties, which, in their highest flights, attain to a state of 
ecstatic enjoyment, whose proper object is God. (3.) 
His theology is that of love. Faith and penitence are 
the wings on which divine love rises and attains to the 
possession of the Infinite Being. This possession is 
naturally imperfect ; here below' none can see God face 
to face, “ for there shall no man see it and live;” but 
it produces peace in the heart ; the ignorant and the 
lowly can attain to it, and it is much superior to that 
which results from speculative theories, with their at- 


GERSOX 


S3S 


GEEVASE 


tending abstractions and syllogism, and the uncertain- 
ty and the agonizing doubts which often accompany 
them. Gcrson’s is a mild form of mysticism, based on 
the nicest analysis : it does not lead to the absorption 
of the personality into the bosom of the Infinite Being, 
nor exclude the normal exercise of the function of the 
intellect and volition. Gcrson was a determined ene- 
my of scholasticism. He signalized, as the origin of 
all the evils of theology, that vain curiosity which 
leads to the disregard of the most reliable authorities, 
the dangerous taste for novelty in things and in words, 
the love of argument, and the mixing up of the differ- 
ent sciences. Revelation, with him, is the limit of the- 
ology, and to endeavor to carry it farther by human 
reasonings is to lead it astray. “ If the Scriptures arc 
insufficient as a means of arriving at God, where shall 
we find anything to lead us higher ? Let us then guard 
against attempting to help theology by an admixture 
with other sciences, and against introducing into it the 
exercises of the schools.” As to practical religion, as 
we have already said, Gerson was of the moderate 
mystical school. In his view all the moral and intel- 
lectual powers of man were originally in harmony with 
each other, and directed to God; but sin destroyed this 
harmony, and it is the object of mystic theology to re- 
store it. But, in order to effect this, it must first know 
the nature of the powers of the mind, and the manner 
of acting upon them. Following Richard de St. Victor 
( de Contemplations), Gerson distinguishes in the opera- 
tions of the two orders of faculties three different de- 
grees : in the vis cognitiva , 1 . the cogitatio , involuntary 
tendency of the soul to moral consideration ; 2. the 
meditatio, voluntary effort to learn the truth; 3. con- 
templatio , the voluntary inquiry into spiritual, and es- 
pecially divine subjects ; in the ris afeetiva, 1. the de- 
sire, libido; 2. piety, dtvotio; 3. loving aspirations, di- 
ke tio ccstatica , and anagogica , inseparably connected 
with the contempt atio : these are only separately or the- 
oretically considered. In this union of love with con- 
templation resides the true essence of mystic tlicol- 
ogy, which is essentially a theology of love. Gerson 
designated it as theologia ajfectira , in contradistinction 
from scholastic theology, which lie called theologia 
speculatira. Love consists only in an “ experimentalis 
bei percept iof from which, however, Gerson abstracts 
all that is material or figurative. In his definition of 
it, he says: u Bv love is the eternal Word born in the 
soul, and the unity with God achieved.” That wonder- 
ful book, De Imitatione Christi , is attributed bv many 
of the best critics to Gerson. On this question, see 
Kempis. 

There arc several editions of Gerson’s collected 
works, but the most complete is Opera Omnia J. Gerso- 
nii, op, et stud. L. Ellies du Pin (Antwerp, 17CG, 5 vols. 
fol.). Vol. i contains a life of Gerson, an essay on the 
authorship of the Imitation of Christ, a critical cata- 
logue of his writings, together with his dogmatical 
works. Vol. ii contains his treatises on ecclesiastical 
polity, etc.; vol. iii, his writings on moral theology; 
vol. iv, exegctical writings ; vol. v, controversial writ- 
ings, sermons, etc. Some works are included in this 
edition which do not belong to Gerson. See Richer, 
Vie de Gerson; L’ Enfant, Hist, of the Council of Con- 
stance ; Leciiv, Essai sur Gerson (Paris, 1832, 2 vols. 
8vo) ; Schmidt, Essai sur Gerson (Strasb. 1839) ; Tho- 
massy, Jean Gerson (Paris, 18-13, lGmo) ; Fail gore, 
Eloge de Gerson (Paris, 1837) ; Engelhnrdt, de Gersonio 
Mystivo (Erlang. 1843, 4to) ; Illgen's Zeitsch rift fur d. 
hist. Theol. (1833); Stndien u. Kritiken (1835), p. 278; 
•lourdain, Doctrina Gersonii de theolog. myst . (Par. 1838, 
Svo); Michelet, Ilist.de France, x ol. iv ; Bonnechose, 
Rformatevrs a rant la lief or me, i, 3 GO; Neander, Ch. 
Ilist. vol. v; Neander, History of Christian Dogmas , 
519, G07. G12; Mosheim, Ch. Ilist. ii,443; Dtipin, Hist, 
of Eccles . 1 1 'riters, cent, xv; lloefer, Xonr. Biog. Gene- 
rals, xx, 283 sq. ; Hase, Ch. Hist. 250, 251 ; Hook, De- 
cks. Biog. v, 30G ; Schwab, J . Gerson , cine Monographic 


(Wurzburg, 1858, Svo) ; Herzog, Real-Encyhlopadie, v, 
89 sq. 

Gertrude, St., born in G2G, w r as the daughter of 
Pepin of Landen, majordomo of the king of Austrasia, 
France. She was religiously brought up, and finally 
entered the nunnery of Nivelles, nine miles from Brus- 
sels, of which she was elected abbess at the early age 
of twenty. She died there March 17, 659, and that 
day has since been kept in commemoration of her 
throughout Brabant. — Acta Sanctorum, March 17. 

Gertrude, St., was born at Eisleben, Germany, 
and became in 1294 abbess of a congregation of Bene- 
dictine nuns at Roberdorf. She was thoroughly versed 
in Latin and the holy Scriptures, but is particularly 
known for the visionary mysticism of her piety. A 
series of editions of her Ivsinuatiomim diviuie pktatis 
exercitia appeared during the 16th and 17th centuries. 
Mege published an edition in 1GG4, and in 1G7G trans- 
lated it, together with her biography, into French. 
She died in 1334. Her saint’s day is Nov. 15. — Iler- 
zog, Real-Encglclop. v, 100. 

Geruphina (S;*2T3), the name of a mountain 
not very far from Jerusalem, mentioned in the Tal- 
mud ( Rosh hasli-Shanali , ii, fol. 22, 1>) as the third sum- 
mit distant, on which signal-fires were lighted; held 
by Schwarz to be a prominent peak near the centre of 
.a mountain-chain called u Arctpnn, about three Eng. 
miles south of Kalat el-Raba, or Ramoth Gilead” (Pal- 
I est. p. 82) ; hut we find no corresponding name in any 
other modern authority. 

Gervaise, Fran^ois-Armanp, a Trappist monk, 

I was horn at Paris in 1GG0. Having studied under the 
Jesuits, he then entered among the barefooted Carmel- 
ites ; but, not finding this reform sufficiently austere 
to satisfy his love of asceticism, he took the habit of 
La Trappe in 1G95, and insinuated himself so much 
into the favor of the celebrated abbe De Ranee that he 
was appointed abbot of La Trappe on the death of Zo- 
zimus Eoisel in 1G9G. The abl 6, however, soon rc- 
I pented of his choice, for the new abbot began, by bis 
austerity and intriguing spirit, to foment divisions 
among the monks, and to undo all that De Ranee had 
done. He soon resigned, and in leaving La Trappe he 
drew up a long Apology. When his JJistoire ginerale 
de Citcaux (Avignon, 174G, 4to) appeared, the Beniar- 
dines, who were violently attacked in it, obtained an 
order from the court against him, and lie was arrested 
at Paris and conveyed to the abbey of Notre Dame des 
, Reclus, where ho died in 1755. He wrote La Vie de 
St.Cyprien (Paris, 1717, 4to) : — La Vie d' A bailor d et 
d'Hc’loise (Paris, 1720, 2 vols. 12mo) : — La Vie de St. 
Irenie (Paris, 1723, 2 vols. 12mo) : — La Vie dc I A pot re 
St. Paid (Par. 1734, 3 vols. 12mo): — La Vie tie St. Epi- 
| phane (Paris, 1738, 4to) : — L'hunneur de Viglise def -nda 
i contre I\ Le Courayer (1742, 2 vols. 12mo). ISce Rich- 
ard, Bibliotheque Sacree ; Hook, Eccles. Eiogr. vol. v ; 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Ginerale, xx, 830. 

Gervaise and Frotaise (Gf.rvasius et Frota- 
I sius), two saints always named together in the Roman 
martvrologv. Ambrose gives an account of them, 
and calls them the “first martyrs of Milan.” They 
appear to have suffered martyrdom in the time of Dio- 
clcsian. Many stories are told of the miracles wrought 
by their “relics.” Their commemoration day is June 
19. See Butler, Lives of the Saints , J Line 19. 

Gervase of Canterbury, a mediaeval English 
chronicler, was born about 1350, and died in the early 
part of the 13th century. We know but little of his 
i history. It appears that he was a monk of the priory 
of Christ’s Church, Canterbury, and held the office of 
sacristan, was present at the burning in 1174 of Can- 
terbury Cathedral, and watched the erection of the 
new cathedral, until the election of Baldwin as arch- 
bishop in 118-1, when he wrote his account of the de- 
| struetion and rebuilding thereof, entitled Tractatus de 
j combustione Dorobornensis ecclesiic. Another work, 


GERZITE 


839 


GESHU1 


Imaginationes de discordiis inter monachos Cantuarienses 
et archiepiscopum Baldewin , written, perhaps, after Hu- 
bert became archbishop in 1193, gives a full account 
of the dissensions between Baldwin and his monks. 
His next work, Vitcc Dorobornensium arch iejnscopoiu m , 
contains lives of the archbishops of Canterbury, end- 
ing soon after Hubert’s accession. His most valuable 
work, Chronica de tempore region Anglice Stephmi , Hen. 
II, et Ricardi II, chronicles the reigns of these sover- 
eigns, and contains in the conclusion an announce- 
ment of a second part, to be devoted to the reign of 
John, which was probably never written. In the li- 
brary of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge (No. 438), 
there is a MS. treatise of Gcrvase, entitled Mappa 
Mundi, the lirst pait of which gives a topographical 
description of England by counties, with lists of the 
bishops’ sees and monasteries in each, and the second 
part lists of the archbishops of the whole world and 
their suffragans, and added thereto a chronicle of Eng- 
land from the fabulous times to the death of Richard 
I. Bishop Nicolson {Eng. Hist. Library ) characterizes 
Gcrvase as a diligent and judicious historian ; and 
Wright ( Liog . Brit. Lit.) says “his writings show 
great care in collecting information, and discrimina- 
tion in using it; and his chronicle of the reigns of 
Stephen, Henry, and Richard is one of the most valu- 
able of the historical memorials of the l*2th century.” 
His works, except the Mappa Mundi, were published 
in Twysden’s Hist or ice AngJicanre Scriptores JJecim 
(Londoni, 1652, fob, Coll. 1285-1684), and an English 
translation of his Tractatus de Combustione, etc., is 
given in the Report of the Proceedings of the British 
Archeological Association, at the first General Meeting, 
held at Canterbury in the Month of September, 1844, ed. 
by Alfred John Dun kin (bond. 1845, 8vo), p. 194-240. 
— Wright, Biographia Britannica. IJteraria (Anglo- 
Norman period, .p. 419-421) ; lloefer, Xouv. Blog. Gen. 
xx, 326, 327 ; Rose, Xew Gen. Biog. Dictionary , viii, 12. 
(J. W. M.) 

Gerzite. See Geziiite. 

Ge'sem (reai/i), a Grmcized form (Judith i, 9) of 
the name of the land of Gosiien. 

Gesenius, Friedrich Heinrich Wilhelm, a 
distinguished Oriental scholar, was bom at Nordhau- 
sen February 3, 1785. After finishing his education 
at the universities of Helnistadt and Gottingen, he 
was for a short time teacher at the pmdagogium at 
Helnistadt. In 1806 he became privat docent at the 
University of Gottingen, and in 1809 professor of an- 
cient literature at the college of lleiligenstadt. In 
1810 lie became extraordinary, and in 1*11 ordinary 
professor at llalle. In 1814 he received the degree 
of doctor of divinity; and in 1820 he made a scientific 
journey to Baris and Oxford, where he chiefly collect- 
ed material for his projected Hebrew dictionary, lie 
died Oct. 23, 1842. Gesenius was an outspoken adhe- 
rent of the Ration ali tie school. In the study of Orien- 
tal languages, liis works, which had an almost unprece- 
dented circulation, began a new era. The most impor- 
tant among them are : Hebniisches und Chalddisches 
Jfandwbrterbuch (Lpz. 1810-1812, 2 vols. ; 7th ed. 1868; 
Latin ed. 1833 ; 2d ed. by Hoffmann, 1847 ; Eng. trails], 
by O. Leo, Cambridge, i825 ; by J . W. Gibbs, Andover, 
1824, and bv Robinson, Boston, 1850): — Ilebrdisrhe 
Grammatik (Halle, 1813; 20th edit, by Dr. Rfuliger, 
I860; English transl. by M. Stuart, Andover, 1826, 
and by Oonant, Boston, 1839; also a French transl.): 
— Hebi iiisehes Lesebuch (llalle, 1814; 7th edit, hv De 
Wettc ; 9th edit, by lleiligstedt, 1858; transit into 
English, N. Y.) : — Kntische Geschichte dor hebr. Sprache 
u. Schrift (Laipz. 1815 ; 2d edit. 1827): — De Pentatevchi 
Samar itani origine indole ct anctoritale (llalle, 1815): 
— G rammatisch-Krit. Lehrgebaude der hebr. Sprache (2 
vols., Leipz. 1817): — Uobersetzung des Propheten Je- 
saias mit einem phil.-krit. u. hist. Commentar (3 vols., 
Leipz. 1820-1821 ; 2d edit. 1829) : — Thesaurus phil . 


crit. ling. hebr. et chald. (Leipz. 1827-1853, S vels. ; part 
of the 3d vol. by Rudiger): — Scriptural linguaque 
phcenieice monumenta (Leipz. 1837, 3 vols.). lie also 
wrote many valuable articles for the Allgemeine En- 
cycl. of Erseh mid Gruber, and translated Burckhardt’s 
Travels to Syria and Balestine (Weimar, 1823, 2 vols.), 
with many valuable notes illustrating Biblical geog- 
raphy. See Gesenius, cine Erinnerung an seine Freunde 
(Berlin, 1843) ; Herzog, Real-Encyhlop. v, 121-3. 

Gesenius, Justus, a German divine and scholar, 
was born at Essbeck, in Hanover, July 6, 1601, stud- 
ied theology at Helnistadt and Jena, and became pas- 
tor in Brunswick in 1629. In 1636 lie became court 
preacher at Hildesheim, and finally councillor and 
general superintendent of Hanover. He died Sept. 
18, 1673. II is principal works are, Passionspredigten 
(Hanov. 1660) : — Trostpredigten (Hanov. 1661) ; and, 
under the name of Timotlieus Fridlibius, Waruni irillst 
du nicht Katholisch werden wie deine Vorfahren waren 
(on the conversion of the duke John Frederick to Ro- 
manism) (Hanov. 1669-72, 4 parts). lie wrote also a 
number of hymns, which have been incorporated in 
the Hanoverian Hymn-book. — Pierer, Unicersal Lexi- 
kon, s. v. ; Herzog, Real-Encyhlop). v, 117. (J. N. P.) 

Ge'sham, or rather Gesiian [as in the edit, of 
1611] (Heb. G ey shan' , 1 ’11^, filthy, Sept, rtjpenbp v. r. 
Xwy«p,VuIg. Gesan ), the third named of the sons of 
Jahdai (q. v.) among the descendants of Caleb (1 
Ohron. ii, 47). B.C. post 1612. 

Ge'sliem (Ileb. id. B1135, a shower , if Heb. ; Fiirst, 
firmness ; but more prob. the Arabic Jasim or Jahum , 
a historical name in Arabia Proper; Sept, rppadjp, 
Vulg. Gesam), once (Nell, vi, 6) in the prolonged form 
Gasii'mu (Ileb. Gashmu\ * -225), an Arabian (Nell, ii, 
19 ; vi, 1), and one of the enemies of the Jews on the 
return from the exile, especially in the plots against 
the life of Nehemiah (Neh. vi, 2). B.C. 446. Gc- 
shem, we may conclude, was an inhabitant of Arabia 
Fctrica, or of the Arabian Desert, and proba! ly the 
chief of a tribe which, like most of the tribes on the 
eastern frontier of Palestine, was, in the time of the 
captivity and the subsequent period, allied with the 
Persians, or with any peoples threatening the Jewish 
nation. Geshem, like Sanballat and Tobiah, seems to 
have been one of the “governors beyond the river,” 
to whom Nehemiah came, and whose mission “grieved 
them exceedingly, that there was come a mail to seek 
the welfare of the children of Israel” (Neh. ii, 10); for 
the wandering inhabitants of the frontier doubtless 
availed themselves largely, in their predatory excur- 
sions, of the distracted state of Palestine, and dreaded 
the rc-establishmcnt of the kingdom ; and the Ara- 
bians, Ammonites, and Ashdodites are recorded as 
having “ conspired to tight against Jerusalem, and to 
hinder” its repairing. {See Nehemiah. 

Ge'shur (Heb. Geshur ', ta l-ViTS; Sept. IYcroep and 
reaovpi), the name of a district of Syria near Gilead 
(2 Sam. xv, 8 ; 1 Chron. ii, 23), which adjoined, on the 
east side of the Jordan, the northern border of the He- 
brew territory, and lay between Mount Hermon, Ma- 
aehah, and Bashan (Dent, iii, 13, 14 ; Josh, xii, 5). It 
is plain from these notices that Geshur lay in that 
portion of Syria which was connected with or adjoin- 
ing to the land of Gilead, and the Geshurites probably 
dwelt in the rocky fastnesses of Argob. This region 
is supposed to he the same with what is now called the 
Lejah , and is remarkable for its singularly wild and 
rugged scenery. Eurckhardt says, “ Til the interior 
parts of the Lejah the rocks are in many places cleft 
asunder, so that the whole hill appears shivered, and 
in the act of falling down,” etc. Porter adds, “No 
description can approach the reality. One cannot re- 
press a shudder when he finds himself in such a den, 
surrounded by armed hordes on whose faces the coun- 
try seems to have stamped its own savage aspect. 


GESIIUI! 


840 


GESHUEI 


Ibrahim Pasha, flushed with victory, ami maddened ' 
by the obstinacy of a handful of Druses, attempted to 
follow them into this stronghold ; but scarcely a sol- 
dier who entered returned. Every nook concealed an 
enemy. ... The Lejah has for ages been a sanctuary 
for outlaws, and not 1111 frequently a refuge for the op- 
pressed” {Handbook for Syria, p. 504). See Ancon. 

Geshur is first associated with Aram or Syria as 1 
among the conquests of .lair, the son of Manasseh. 
After stating that he had three and twenty cities in 
the land of Gilead, it is said, Jair took “Geshur and 
Aram, w ith the towns of Jair, from them, with Kc- I 
natli, and the towns thereof, three-score cities” (1 
Chron.ii, 23). While these places were taken, they 
were held only as subject territories, still to a great 
extent occupied by their original inhabitants. See 
Havotii-Jair. According to the boundaries of the 
Holy Land, as defined by Closes, Geshur would have 
formed part of it; but in Josh, xiii, 2, 13, it is stated i 
that the Israelites had expelled neither the Geshurites j 
nor the Maachathites, but dwelt together with them, j 
That the Hebrews did not afterwards permanently 
subdue Geshur appears from the circumstance that, in 
David’s time, this district had a king of its own, called 
Talmai, whose daughter, Maachah, was one of the 
wives of David (2 Sam. iii, 3; 1 Chron. iii, 2). She 
was probably a person of superior beauty, as she be- 
came the mother of the two handsomest of David’s 
children, Absalom and Tamar, llow David should 
have thought of getting a wife from such a quarter, or 
what prior link of connection between him and the 
king of Geshur might have led to such a result, is left 
unnoticed in the history. Hut possibly the Geshurites, 
who are mentioned among the tribes against whom 
David made incursions while be dwelt in Ziklag (1 
Sam. xxvii, 8), and w ho, from the name being once 
found in connection with the Philistines (Josh, xiii, 3), 
are generally supposed to have been a different tribe 
from the other, may, after all, have been the same. 
See Gesiiurite. The Geshurites, very probably, 
from their fastnesses in Argob, were wont to sally 
forth, like the Amalekites, in occasional raids upon the 
districts to the south and east of Palestine, without 
having ain r settled habitations there ; and David might 
justly regard them (though located at some distance), 
equally with the Amalekites who are mentioned along 
with them, as fair subjects for making reprisals upon. 
In that ease he would be brought into close contact 
with Talmai, first, indeed, as occupying a hostile rela- 
tion to him, but not unnaturally afterwards as wish- 
ing to form with him a bond of alliance. Amid the 
troubles and difficulties which encompassed David’s 
access to the throne, a marriage into the family of the 
king of Geshur might seem to afford a prospect not to 
be slighted of strengthening his position. As it ulti- 
mately proved, this alliance became the source of one 
of his greatest dangers, in giving birth to the fascinat- 
ing, but restless and aspiring Absalom. The wild acts 
of Absalom’s life may have been to some extent the 
results of maternal training; they were at least char- 
acteristic of the stock from w liich he sprung. In flee- 
ing, as Absalom did, after the assassination of his 
brother Amnon, to the court of his maternal grandfa- 
ther at Geshur (2 Sam. xiii, 37, 38; xiv, 23, 32), one 
can easily understand how secure a refuge he might 
find there, while lie required to he in concealment, but 
at the same time how unlikely it was his ambition 
could remain long satisfied with its dreary aspect and 
dreadful seclusion. See Ar.SAi.mi. The word Geshur 
signifies a bridge, and corresponds with the Arabic 
Jhr , Syriac Giy third ; and in t he same region where, 
according to the above data, we must fix Geshur, be- 
tween Blount llennon and the Lake of Tiberias, there 
still exists an ancient stone bridge over the Upper 
Jordan, called Jisr-Rendt-Jukuh, or “ the bridge of the 
daughters of Jacob,” i. e. the Israelites. 'The ancient 
commercial route to and from Damascus and the East 


seems to have lain in this direction in the most ancient 
times (Gen. xxxvii, 25), and hence the probability 
that there was even then a bridge over the river, which 
(in times when bridges were rare) gave its name to the 
adjacent district. The Jordan, however, is at a con- 
siderable distance from the region in question. Dr. 
Robinson, moreover, regards the bridge in question as 
a structure of the time of the Crusades, although he ad- 
mits that it occupies the site of a traditionary Ford of 
Jacob {Researches, iii, 3G1). — Kitto, s. v. ; Fairbairn. 
s. v. See Bridge. 

Gesh'uri (Ileb. Geshuri , ‘nsrra, Sept. Tanytoi v. 
r. Pfpyffffi, and IT coup t v. r. ITffipti' ; the sing. Dent, 
iii, 14 ; Josh, xii, 2), or Gesii'urites (Heb. Geshuriin , 
S'HSCSi, plur. Josh, xii, 5; xiii, 11, 13; 1 Sam. xxvii, 

8 ; but in Josh, xiii, 13, second clause, where the Heb. 
has Geshur simply), the name of an aboriginal people 
of Palestine, who appear at opposite extremities of the 
country. See Canaax, Land of. 

1. r llie natives of a district geographically within 
Bash ail, but politically reckoned to Aram (2 Sam. xv, 
8). It seems, from the various references in Scripture, 
that the Geshurites occupied a territory of great natu- 
ral strength, and that thus, though small in number, 
they were able to defend themselves against all assail- 
ants. Belaud thinks ( Pala-st . p. 77 sq.) that Geshur 
of Bashan (Josh, xii, 5) w*as distinct from the Geshur 
of Aram (2 Sam. xv, 8). For this, however, there is 
no authority, and the whole tenor of the Scripture 
narrative seems opposed to it. The view of Keil (on 
Josh, xii, 5), Rosenmuller {Bib. Geogr. ii, 227), and Ge- 
senius ( Thesaurus , s. v.), that Geshur lay along the 
east hank of the upper Jordan, is opposed to the tepo- 
graphical details of the Bible, in which it is closely 
connected with Argob. Their chief argument is that 
Geshur signifies “a bridge,” and there is a bridge on 
the upper Jordan. Porter, after a careful survey of 
the whole country, w*as led to the conclusion that Ge- 
shur embraced the northern section of the wild and 
rocky provinces now* called Lejah, and formerly Tra- 
ehonitis and Argob. It probably also took in the 
neighboring plain to the north as far as the banks of 
the Tharpar, on which there are several important 
bridges ; but on the approach of the Israelites, the peo- 
ple may have concentrated themselves in their rugged 
stronghold, where the Israelites deemed it more pru- 
prudent to leave them than to attempt to expel them. 
The wild tribes that now occupy that region hold a 
somewhat similar position, being really independent, 
but nominally subject to the Porte (see Journ. of Sac. 
Lit . July, 3854, p. 300; Porter’s Damascus, vol. ii ; 
Burekhardt’s Travels in Syr. p. 105 sq.). See Gkzer. 
The Geshurites appear to have maintained friendly 
relations with the Israelites east of the Jordan ; prob- 
ably from mutual interest, both being extensive cattle 
owners. The community of occupation may have led 
to the alliance between David and the daughter of 
Talmai, king of Geshur (2 Sam. iii, 3). See Tracho- 
nitis. 

2. A people who dwelt on the south-western border 
of Palestine, adjoining the Philistines (Josh, xiii, 2). 
They appear to have been nomads, and to have roam- 
ed over the neighboring desert, though occupying for 
a time at least a portion of Fhilistia. “David went 
up and invaded the Geshurites, and the Gezrites, and 
the Amalekites; for those nations were of old the in- 
habitants of the land as thou goest to Sliur, even unto 
the land of Egypt” (1 Sam. xxvii, 8). — Kitto, s. v. 
These, however, appear to have been but a branch of 
the foregoing tribe, settled more or less permanently 
on the maritime outskirts of Judah. Schwarz finds 
the latter “in the modern village Aehhur, one mile 
from Deir-Diban, on the road to Higdal” {Pedcst. p. 
113). Thcnius {Comment, ad loc.) thinks that Geshurites 
should be read instead of “ Ashuritcs” in 2 Sam. ii, 9. 
See Gesiiuk. 


841 


GETHSEMANE 


GESSELIUS 


Gesselius, Timan, M.D., was born at Amers- I 
foort near the close of the lGth century. Ills father, 
Cornelius Gesselius, was rector of the Latin school of 
that place, hut lost his situation in consequence of re- 
fusing to subscribe the canons of the Synod of Dort. 
His son Tinian, associate rector, holding his father’s 
sentiments, shared the same fate. Being a doctor of 
medicine, he established himself first at Nymegen, and 
subsequently at Utrecht as a practising physician. 
He deserves mention here chiefly on account of his 
labors in Church history. II is principal works arc, 
Historic i sncra et ecclesiasiicn online chronnlogica et ri i 
compendiaria digesta (Traj. 1G59, 4 vols.) : — Ilistoria 
rerum mcmorabilium in orbe gestarum ab anno mundi 
usque ad annum Christi 1G25 (Traj. 1G61). See Gla- 
sius, Godgeleerd Nederland , 1 D. biz. 517 en verv. (J. 
T. N.) 

Gessner, Salomon, D.D., a Lutheran divine, 
was born in Silesia in 1559, appointed professor of the- 
ology at Wittenberg in 1592, and died in 1G05. He 
wrote Commentationes in Psalmos Davidis (Wittenb. 
1G29, fob). — Darling, Cyclop. Bibliograpkica , s. v. ; Mel- 
chior Adam, Vita Theologorum , etc., i, 352. 

Ge'ther (Heb. id. ‘ITS, -signif. unknown ; Sept. 
Tarip v. r. FaS'ip), the name of the third of the sons 
of Aram (Gen. x, 23). B. C. post. 2513. Josephus 
(AnL i, G, 4) makes him the ancestor of the Bactrians 
(but see Michaelis, SpicUeg. ii, 138); and in the tradi- 
tionary legends of the Arabs one Ghathir appears as 
the source of the Thamudites in Ilcjaz and the Jadi- 
sites in Jemama (Abulf. Hist. Anteisl, p. 1G). The 
Arab. vers, of the Polyglot has the Geramaka, a tribe 
which in the time of Mohammed must have inhabited 
the district of Mosul. See Auaeia. Jerome (ad loc.) 
proposes the Carians. Bochart asks (. Phalcg , ii, 10) 
whether the river Centrites , mentioned by Xenophon 
(Anab. iv, 3, 1) and Diodorus Sic. (xiv, 27), and which 
lay between the Carduchians and Armenians, may not 
have derived its name from Gcther ; and Le Clcrc finds 
a trace of the name in Cathara ((Ca.^dpa), a town on 
the Tigris (Ptol. v, 18). Kalisch ( Commentary , ad loc.) 
thinks it may be but an Aram man form of Geshur , an 
identification already proposed by Thomson ( Land and 
Book , i, 38G). (See Schulthess, Parad. p. 282.) See 
Aram. 

Getlisem'ane (r &<nma\n) v. r. re^aqpavd, 
prob. for Aramaean oil-press, such being 

doubtless in the vicinity), the name of a small field 
(\iopiov, plot, A. V. “place,” Matt, xxvi, 3G) or olive- 
yard (comp. Rt}7TQc, John xviii, 1), just out of Jerusa- 
lem, over the brook Kedron, and at the foot of the 
Mount of Olives, to which Jesus, as often before (comp. 
Luke xxii, 39), retired with Ids disciples on the night 
of his betrayal (Mark xiv, 32), and which was the 
scene of his agony (q. v.). The Kedron runs in the 
bottom of a deep glen, parallel with the eastern wall of 
Jerusalem, and about 200 yards distant. Immediate- 
ly beyond it rises the steep side of Olivet, now, as for- 
merly, cultivated in rude terraces. Somewhere on 
the slope of this mount Gethsemane must have been sit- 
uated (see Nitzsch, De horto Gethsemane, X iteb. 1750). 
According to Josephus, the suburbs of Jerusalem 
abounded with gardens and pleasure-grounds (irapa- 
tdcroic, 11 ar, vi, 1, 1 ; compare v, 3. 2); now, with the 
exception of those belonging to the Greek and Latin 
convents, hardly the vestige of a garden is to be seen. 
There is, indeed, a favorite paddoek or close, half a 
mile or more to the north, on the same side of the con- 
tinuation of the valley of the Kedron, the property of 
a wealthy Turk, where the Mohammedan ladies pass 
the day with their families, their bright, flowing cos- 
tume forming a picturesque contrast to the stiff, som- 
bre foliage of the olive-grove beneath w hich they clus- 
ter. But Gethsemane has not come down to us as 
a scene of mirth ; its inexhaustible associations are the 


offspring of a single event — the agony of the Son of 
God on the evening preceding his passion. Here em- 
phatically, as Isaiah had foretold, and as the name 
imports, were fulfilled those dark words, “ 1 have trod- 
den the wine-press alone” (lxiii,3; compare Rev. xiv, 
20, “the wine-press . . . without the city'"). “The pe- 
riod of the year,” remarks Mr. Gresswell (Harm. Diss . 
xlii), “ w r as the vernal equinox ; the day of the month 
about two days before the full of the moon — in which 
case the moon would not be now very far past her me- 
ridian, and the night would be enlightened until a 
late hour towards the morning;” the day of the week 
Thursday, or rather, according to the Jews, Friday, 
for the sun had set. The time, according to Mr. Gress- 
wcll, would be the last watch of the night, between 
our 11 and 12 o’clock. Any recapitulation of the cir- 
cumstances of that ineffable event would be unneces- 
sary, any comments upon it unseasonable. A mod- 
ern garden, in which are eight venerable olive-trees, 
and a grotto to the north, detached from it, and in 
closer connection with the Church of the Sepulchre of 
the Virgin — in fact, with the road to the summit of the 
mountain running between them, as it did also in the 
days of the Crusaders (Sanuti, Secret. Fidel. Cruc. lib. 
iii, p. xiv, c. 9) — both securely enclosed, and under 
lock and key, are pointed out as making up the true 
Gethsemane. These may be the spots w hich Eusebius 
(Onomast. s. v. “ where the faithful still re- 

sort for prayer”), St. Jerome ( Liber de Situ et Nomini- 
bus, s. v.), and Adam nun us mention as such ; and from 
the 4th century downwards some such localities are 
spoken of as known, frequented, and even built upon. 
This spot w r as probably fixed upon at the wish of He- 
lena, the mother of Constantine, in A.D. 32G. The 
pilgrims of antiquity say nothing about those time- 
honored olive-trees, w’hose age the poetic minds of 
Lamartine and Stanley shrink from criticising — they 
were doubtless not so imposing in the Gth century; 
still, had they been noticed, they w r ould have afforded, 
undying testimony to the locality — while, on the other 
hand, few modern travellers would inquire for and 
adore, with Antoninus, the three precise spots where 
our Lord is said to have fallen upon his face. Against 
the contemporary antiquity of the olive-trees, it has 
been urged that Titus cut down all the trees round 
about Jerusalem ; and certainly this is no more than 
Josephus states in express terms (see particularly War, 
vi, 1, 1, a passage w hich must have escaped Mr. Wil- 
liams, Ilolg City, ii, 437, 2d edit., who only cites v, 3, 
2, and vi, 8, 1). Besides, the tenth legion, arriving 
from Jericho, were posted about the Mount of Olives 
(v, 2, 3; and comp, vi, 2, 8). and in the course of the 
siege a wall w r as carried along the valley of the Ke- 
dron to the fountain of Siloam (v, 10, 2). The proba- 
bility, therefore, would seem to be that they were 
planted by Christian hands to mark the spot ; unless, 
like the sacred olive of the Acropolis (Bahr, ad Herod . 
viii, 55), the}' may have reproduced themselves as sci- 
ons from the old roots, a supposition which their shape 
and position render not unlikely (Aiton, Land of the 
Messiah, p. 204). Maun die 11 (Early Trav. in Palestine , 



Garden of Gethsemane a3 seen from the North. 


GEUEL 


842 


GEZER 


by Wright, p. 473) and Quaresmius ( Elttcid . T. S. lib. 
iv, per. v, ch. 7) appear to have been the first to no- 
tice them, not more than three centuries ago ; the for- 
mer arguing against and the latter in favor of their 
reputed antiquity, but nobody reading their accounts 
would imagine that there were then no more than eight, 
the locality of Gethsemanc being supposed the same. 
Parallel claims, to be sure, are not wanting in the ce- 
dars of Lebanon, which are still visited with so much 
enthusiasm ; in the terebinth, or oak of Mamre, which 
was standing in the days of Constantine the Great, and 
even worshipped (Vales, ad Euseb. 1 'it. Const, iii, 53); 
and the fig-tree ( Jicus clasticci) near Nerbndda, in In- 
dia, which native historians assert to be 2500 years 
old (Patterson's Journal of a Tour in Egypt, p. 202, 
note). Still more appositely, there were olive-trees 
near Liternum 250 years old, according to Pliny, in 
his time, which are recorded to have survived to the 
middle of the 10th century (Xoui\ Diet, de Hist. Nat. 
Paris, 1846, xxix, Gl). There can, indeed, be no cer- 
tainty as to the precise age of the trees ; blit it is ad- 
mitted by all travellers that the eight which still stand 
upon the spot in question bear the marks of a venera- 
ble antiquity, having gnarled trunks and a thin foli- 
age. Several young trees have been planted to sup- 
ply the place of those which have disappeared (Olin’s 
Travels , ii, 115). Some years ago the plot of ground 
was bought by the Latin Church ; and, having been 
enclosed by a wall, the interior is laid out in walks 
and flower-beds after the fashion of a modern Euro- 
pean garden : the guardian padre, however, still points 
out to pilgrims not only “the grotto of the agony,” 
but also the spot where Judas betrayed Jesus, and that 
where the three disciples slept (Geramb, Pilgrimage to 
Palestine , i, 03 sq.). Mr. G. Pobinson says: “The 
grot to which our Saviour retired, and where, ‘hilling 
to the ground’ in the agony of his soul, and sweating 
‘as it were great drops of blood,’ he was comforted by 
an angel (Luke xxii, 43, 44), is still shown and vener- 
ated as such. It is excavated in the rock, and the 
descent to it is by a flight of rudely-cut steps. The 
form of the interior is circular, about fifteen feet in 
diameter, and the roof, which is supported by pilasters, 
is perforated in the middle to admit light. There are 
some remains of sepulchres in the sides” ( Travels in 
Palestine , Par. 3837. i, 328). The Armenian or Greek 
Church, however, denies that this is the actual site, 
and has fixed upon another as the proper one, at some 
little distance to the north of it. But both sites have 
been deemed by many writers as too public for the 
privacy of prayer (Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 284). 
The solemn quietude of the Latin site, however, is 
strongly commented upon by Bartlett (BW£s about 
Zion , p. 98). Dr. Robinson remarks that there is noth- 
ing particular in the traditionary plot to mark it ns the 
garden of Gethsemanc, for adjacent to it are many 
similar enclosures, and many olive-trees equally old 
(7 Researches, i, 34G). lie admits, however, the proba- 
bility that this is the site which Eusebius and Jerome 
had in view, and as no other site is suggested as en- 
titled to superior credit, we may be content to receive 
the traditional indication (Tischendorf, Peise in dem 
Orient , i, 312). It has been visited and described bv 
nearly every modern traveller in Palestine. Some 
have even heard the ancient name given in connection 
with this spot, hut this was probably borrowed by the 
Arabs from the Christian traditions. — Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. See Jerusalem. 

Geii'el (bN*Na, elevation of Cod; Sept. FoveiljX), 
son of Mnclii of the tribe of Gad, and one of the com- 
missioners sent by Moses to explore Canaan (Numb, 
xiii, 35). B.C.1G57. 

Geulinx, Arnold, a Belgian philosopher, born 
about 1025 at Antwerp, died about 1668 as professor 
of philosophy at Leyden, lie at first taught the clas- 
sics and the Cartesian philosophy at Louvain, but sub- 


sequently went to Leyden, where he abjured Cathol- 
icism, and finally obtained the chair of philosophy, 
which lie retained until his death. He was the most 
remarkable disciple of Des Cartes prior to Spinoza and 
Malebranche, and his writings contain the germs of 
some of the doctrines of these later philosophers. He 
in particular developed the hypothesis of occasional 
I causes. He wwote Ethica (Amsterdam, 1GG5) ; Logica 
j (Amsterd. 16G2) ; Metaphysica (Amsterd. 1G91). (A. 

J. S.) 

Gez. See Locust. 

Ge'ser (Heb. id. “75, prob. a precipice , from “75, 
to cut off; Sept. TaZtp, but in Chron. vi, 67 and xx, 4 
r«3p, ill 1 Chron. xiv, 1G Va^ppd ; in pause Ga'zer, 
“I75, which Ewald, Isr. Gesch. ii, 427, note, deems the 
original form), an ancient city of Canaan, whose king, 
Horam, or Elam, coming to the assistance of Lachish, 
was defeated and probably killed, with all his people, 
by Joshua (Josh, x, 33 ; xii, 32). The town, however, 
is not said to have been destroyed ; it formed one of 
the landmarks on the southern boundary of Ephraim, 
not far from the lower Beth-boron, towards the Medi- 
terranean (xvi, 3), the western limit of the tribe (1 
Chron. vii, 28). It was allotted, with its suburbs, to 
the Kohathite Levites (Josh, xxi, 21 ; 1 Chron. vi, G7) ; 
blit the original inhabitants were not dispossessed 
(Judg. i, 29); so' that in the time of David the Pbilis- 
; tine territory seems to have included it (2 Sam. x, 25 ; 
3 Chron. xx, 4); and even down to the reign of Solo- 
mon the Cnnaanites (or, according to the Sept, addi- 
I tion to Josh, xvi, 10, the Canaanites and Perizzites) 
were still dwelling there, and paying tribute to Israel 
(1 Kings ix. 16). At this time it must, in fact, have 
I been independent of Israclitish rule, for Pharaoh had 
I on some occasion burnt it to the ground and killed its 
j inhabitants, and then presented the site to his daugh- 
ter, Solomon’s queen. But it was immediately rebuilt 
by the latter king (1 Kings ix, 15-21); and, though 
not heard of again till after the captivity, yet it played 
a somewhat prominent part in the later struggles of 
the nation, being the Gazera {Tct^pa, 1 Macc. iv, 15 ; 
vii, 45), or Gazara {TuZapa, 1 Macc. xv, 28, 35; xiii, 

I 53; 2 Macc. x, 32), of the Apocrypha and Josephus 
(rdr«p«, Ant. xiii, 9, 2), who once calls it Gudara 
{Tcihipa, Ant. xiii, 9, 2). Strabo (xvi, 759) also men- 
tions a town called Gadaris {facet pic)' Ewald {Gesch. 
iii, 280), somewhat arbitrarily, takes Gezcr and Geshur 
to he the same, and sees in the destruction of the for- 
mer by Pharaoh, and the simultaneous expedition of 
Solomon to Ilamath-zobali, in the neighborhood of the 
latter, indications of a revolt of the Canaanites, of 
whom the Geshurites formed the most powerful rem- 
nant, and whose attempt against the new monarch was 
thus frustrated. In one place Gob is given as identi- 
cal with Gezer (1 Chron. xx, 4 ; comp. 2 Sam. xxi, 38). 

1 Gezer was perhaps the original scat of the Gezrites (q. 
v.) whom David attacked (1 Sam. xxvii, 8), in the 
vicinity of the Amalekites ; and as they are mention- 
! ed in connection with the Geshurites, they may have 
lived a considerable distance north of Philistia. Fi- 
nally, Mount Gerizim (q. v.) appears to have derived 
j its name from the vicinity of this tribe (compare the 
name A r-Gerizim, by Thcodotius, in Eusebius, Prayi. 
j Evang. ix, 22). 

Gezer must have been between the lower Beth-horon 
and the sea (Josh, xvi, 3; 3 Kings ix, 17), therefore 
on the edge of the great maritime plain which lies be- 
neath the hills of which Beit-nr et-tahta is tbe last 
, outpost, and forms the regular coast road of communi- 
cation with Egypt (1 Kings ix, 36). It is therefore 
I appropriately named as the last point to which David’s 
pursuit of the Philistines extended (2 Sam. v, 25; 1 
Chron. xiv, 16), -and as the scene of at least one sharp 
encounter (3 Chron. xx, 4), this plain being their own 
I peculiar territory (comp. Josephus, Ant., viii, 6, 1, Tci- 
I %apa Tijv rijg YlaXaiarivoiv \d)pag v^dpxovaav ) ; and 


GEZERITE 


843 


GHISLAUST 


as commanding the communication between Egypt 
and the new capital, Jerusalem, it was an .important 
point for Solomon to fortify. By Eusebius ( Onomast . 
s. v. T a£ep) it is mentioned as four miles north of Ni- 
copolis (Am was), a position exactly occupied by the 
important town Jimzu, the ancient Gimzo, and cor- 
responding well with the requirements of Joshua. 
But this hardly agrees with the indications of the first 
book of Maccabees, which speak of it as between Em- 
maus (Amwas) and Azotus and Janmia ; and again as 
on the confines of Azotus. In the neighborhood of the 
latter there is more than one site bearing the name 
Yusur; but whether this Arabic name can be derived 
from the Hebrew Gezer, and also whether so impor- 
tant a town as Gazara was in the time of the Macca- 
bees can be represented by such insignificant villages as 
these, are doubtful questions. — Smith, s. v. Schwartz 
{Palest, p. 85) identifies it with Yazur, a little village two 
miles eastof Jaffa ; butthishas long since been identi- 
fied with the Ilazor of Eusebius (see Robinson’s Res. 
ii, 370, note). Van Senden proposes to identify it with 
El-Kubab , a place on a tell north-west of Amwas ; but 
Van de Velde suggests that this would require the sup- 
position of two Gezers {Memoir, p. 315). The site 
seems rather to be that of the modern Urn-Rush , a vil- 
lage with ruins and a well on the Jaffa road (Robin- 
son, Researches , iii, 57), a place which must, from its 
position (commanding the thoroughfare), have always 
been of great importance, like Gezer. 

Gezerite. See Gezrite. 

Gez'rite (Heb.witli the art. hag-Gizri ' 7 ap- 

parently from “Via, a section , or Via, a shorn, i. e. sterile 
tract ; the marginal reading at 1 Sam. xxvii, 5, errone- 
ously adopted instead of the textual hag-Girzi , 
the Girzite ; Sept, b TriToaloc v. r. Tfcrtpi, Vulg. Gerzi, 
A. V. “ the Gezrites”), the designation of a tribe in the 
vicinity of the Anialeldtes, attacked and subdued by 
David while residing among the Philistines (1 Sam. 
xvii, 8), and hence probably Canaanitish nomades in- 
habiting the south-western wastes of Palestine. The 
twofold form of the name, GezeHte or Gerizzite, seems 
to furnish a link between the city of Gezer and 
Mount Gerizim. See also Gesiiurite. They were 
rich in Bedouin treasures — sheep, oxen, asses, camels, 
and apparel” (vcr. 9; comp, xv, 3; 1 Chron. vi, 21). 
They appear to have occupied Central Palestine at a 
very early period, and to have relinquished it in com- 
pany with the Amalekites, who also left their name 
attached to a mountain in the same locality (Judg. xii, 
35), when they abandoned that rich district for the 
less fertile but freer south. Other tribes, as the Av- 
vim and the Zemarites, also left traces of their presence 
in the names of towns of the central district. — Smith, 
s. v. See Canaaxite. 

Gfrorer, August Friedrich, a German historian, 
was born March 5, 1803, at Calw. In 182G he was for 
a time tutor in a private family at Geneva, made then 
a journey in Italy, and in 1828 was appointed lecturer 
(repetent) in the Evangelical “ Stift” in Tubingen. In 
1830 he became librarian in Stuttgardt, and devoted 
henceforth his whole time to historical studies. Hav- 
ing at first been a Liberal Protestant of the Tubingen 
school, he gradually changed his views, and became 
partial to Roman Catholicism. In 184G he accepted a 
call as professor of history to the University of Freiburg. 
In 1848 he was elected a member of the German Par- 
liament, in which he belonged to the “ Grossdeutsche” 
(Great German) party. In November, 1853, he joined 
the Roman Catholic Church. He died July 10, 18G1. 
The most important of his works are: Geschichte un~ 
serer Page (under the assumed name of Ernst Freg- 
muiul, 1830-1835) : — Philo u. die jud. alexandria Theo- 
sophie (Stuttg. 1831, 2 vols.): — ( lustav Adolf u. seine 
Zeit (Stuttg. 1835-37, 2 vols. ; 3d edit. 1852) : — Gesch. 
des Urcliristcnthums (Stuttg. 1838, 3 vols.): — Allgem. 


Kirckengesch. (Stuttg. 1S41-4G, 4 vols.) : — Geschichte 
der ost. u. west frank. Karolinger vom Tode Ludwig des 
Frommen bis %um Ende Konrad J (Freiburg, 1848, 2 
vols.) : — Untersuchung iiber Alter , Urspmng, Zweck der 
Decretalen des falschen Isidorus (Freiburg, 1848) : — 
Ursprung des menschlichen Geschlechts (Schaft’hausen, 
1855, 2 vols.): — Papst Gregorius u. sezn Zeitalter (Schaft- 
hausen, 1859-61, 7 vols.) : — Geschichte des 18 ,€a Jahr- 
hunderts (after his death edited by Weiss, Schaffhau- 
sen, 18G2). — Allgem. Encycl. s. v. (A. J. S.) 

Ghazzali, Abu Hamid Mohammed Ibn Ahmad, 
“surnained Zaineddin {glory of the law ), one of the 
most eminent Mohammedan philosophers and divines, 
and one of the warmest adherents of Sufism (q. v.), 
born in 450 H. (1058, A.D.), at Tus, in Khorassan, the 
birthplace also of Firdusi, and burial-place of Haruu- 
al- Rashid. The surname of Ghazzali was given to him, 
according to some, because his father dealt in ghctzal or 
spun cotton. Left an orphan at an early age, by the 
advice of his guardian, a Sufi, he •went to Djorslian, 
with the intention of devoting himself to study and 
science as a means of support, and became the favorite 
pupil of Abu Nasr Ismail, an eminent teacher of the 
time. He afterwards betook himself to Nishapur, 
where he attended the lectures of the learned Imam of 
the two sanctuaries (Mecca and Medina) on law, po- 
lemics, philosophy, and theology, aucl remained till the 
death of his instructor. The grand vizier of Bagdad 
then appointed him (A.D. 1091) to a professorship at 
his Xizamje (university), which he left four years later 
in order to perform the holy pilgrimage to Mecca. 
On his return he visited Jerusalem and Damascus, and 
remained for ten years at the mosque of the latter 
place, leading a studious and ascetic life. He after- 
wards visited Cairo, Alexandria, and other places in 
Africa, everywhere teaching and lecturing on religion 
an 1 science, and also returned for a short time to Nish- 
iipur ; but he finally went back to Tus, his native 
place, where he died, 505 H. (A.D. 1111), having 
founded a monastery for Sufis and a college for the 
studious. Of the ninety-nine works written by him 
(mostly in Arabic, a few in Persian), the most famous 
is his Ihjd Glum ad-Dln (Restoration of Religious Sci- 
ences), a work so remarkable and exhaustive, that it 
has been said, ‘ If all the books of the Islam were lost, 
and we had only this one left, we should not miss the 
others’ {Ilcji Khalifah ). The academies of the West, 
however, Cordova, Morocco, Fez, etc., condemned it as 
contrary to the teachings of the Sunna (q. v.), and had 
it publicly burned. Next in importance stands his 
great philosophical work Tahdfat AUFildsafah (The 
Overturning of the Philosophers), which has survived 
only in Hebrew translations, and which gave rise to a 
warmly contested controversy between him and Aver- 
roes (ibn lioshd). We may mention also his com- 
mentary on the ninety-nine names of God, and an eth- 
ical treatise, O Child! published and translated into 
German by Hammer-Purgstall. About one third only 
of his works is known to have survived, and of this but 
a very small part has been published.” — Chambers, 
Encyclop. s. v. 

Ghibellins or Ghibellines. See Guelphs. 

Ghislain, or Gcillain, St., called the apostle of 
Belgian Gaul, is said to have been a native of Athens. 
He came to Gaul in G33, and in G41, with the assist- 
ance of king Dagobert, he founded the convent of St. 
Ghislain (originally St. Peter’s cell). The legend says 
that he was led to that spot by an eagle, who guided 
him in the search after his ecclesiastical vestments, 
which had been stolen by a she-hear. After M aide- 
trade’s husband had retired from the world and found- 
ed t lie convent of Ilaumont, Ghislain induced M alde- 
trude to found one at Castrilocus: this was the first 
settlement of the present city of Mons, and the origin 
of its chapter. Ghislain died in G87, and was canon- 
ized in 925. Miracles were said to take place at his 


GHOST 


844 


GIANT 


tomb, especially the cure of epilepsy, which is still 
commonly called in Belgium St. Ghislain’s Evil. Ilis 
life was written in the 12lh century by Philippe De- 
harveng, abbot of Bonne-Esperance. See A da Sancto- [ 
rum Ord. iSuneti Benedict! ; Baillet, 17c des Saints , 17/4 J 
Oct. ; Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , xx, 4.03 sq. 

Ghost, an old English word of Saxon origin (Germ. 
geist), equivalent to soul or spirit, occurs as the transla- | 
tion of the lleb. ne'pkesh , and the Greek tt vtvpa, j 
both signifying breath , life , spirit, or living principle , by 
which andsimilar terms they are elsewhere rendered 
(Job xi, ‘20; Jer. xv, 9; Matt. xxvii, 50; John xix, 
30). It frequently occurs in the N. T. in the sacred 
name “ IIolv Ghost.” See Spirit. Other phrases in 
which it occurs are those rendered to “give up the 
ghost,” etc., all simply signifying to die , e. g. p?J,to 
expire (Earn, i, 19 ; Gen. xxv, 17 ; xxxv, 29 ; xlix, 33; , 
Job iii, 11 ; x, IS ; xiii, 19 ; xiv, 10) ; tKTrvtio, to breathe 
out , etc., one's life (Mark xv, 37, 39 ; Luke xxiii, 40) ; | 
tK\pc\io, to breathe out one’s last (Acts v, 5, 10 ; xii, 23). j 
Many commentators suppose, from the original terms 
used in the Gospels (JupyKt ro mavpa , Matt, xxvii, 50; 
rrap’ihoKt ro Trvtvpa, John xix, 30), something preter- 
natural in Christ’s death, as being the effect of his voli- 
tion . But there is nothing in the words of Scripture j 
to countenance such an opinion, though our Saviour’s 
volition must be supposed to accompany his offering 
himself for the sins of the world. The Greek words 
rendered yielded up, and gave up, are no other than such 
as is frequently used, both in the Septuagint (Gen. I 
xxxv, 18 ; comp. Psa. xxxi, 5; Eccles. xii, 7) and the 
classical writers, of erjriration, either with the spirit or 
the soul (Josephus, Ant. v, 2, 8; vii, 13, 3; TElian, II. 
An. ii, 1 ; Herod, iv, 190. See SrECTRE. 

Ghostly (i. c. sjnrituaF) occurs in the expressions 
“ ghostly enemy ” and u ghostly counsel ,” found in the 
Catechism and in the Communion- service of the 
Church of England, signifying the one our spiritual 
enemy Satan ; the other, spiritual advice preparatory 
to partaking of the Eucharist (Eden, s. v.). See Spir- 
it, Holy. 

Gi'ali (Heb. Gi'ach, rp*, a breaking forth sc. of a 
fountain; Sept. Ets v. r. Tai', Vulg. simply vallis ), a 
place (probably marked by a spring) opposite the hill 
Anunah, on the road to the “wilderness (east?) of 
Gibeon,” where Joab and Abishai ceased at sun-down 
from the pursuit of Abner after the death of Asahel 
(1 Sam. ii, 24). It is perhaps identical with the “ pool” 
mentioned in ver. 13, although in that case the parties 
must have become far separated in the rout, since they 
would thus have returned to the spot where the battle 
began. See Gibeon. 

Giant. These beings of unusual height are found 
in the early history of all nations, sometimes of a pure- 
ly human origin, but more frequently supposed to have 
partaken also, in some way, of the supernatural and the 
divine. The scriptural history is not without its gi- 
ants, and the numerous theories and disputes which 
have arisen in consequence render it necessary to give 
a brief view of some of the main opinions and curious 
inferences to which the mention of them leads. The 
English word has several representatives in the origi- 
nal Hebrew. 

1. In Gen. vi, 4, we have the first mention of giants 
nephilim', according to some from the Arabic, 
but better from 5E2, to fall, q. d. causing to fall, i. e. vio- 
lent ; Sept, yiyavrtc, Vulg. gigantes; but more discrim- 
inatingly A q u i 1 . t 7 ti 7 ri tt ro i » rt c, Symn. fitaioi) — “There 
were giants in the earth in those days; and also after 
that, when the sons of God came in unto the daugh- 
ters of men, and they hare children to them, the same 
became mighty men, which were of old men of re- 
nown.” A somewhat similnrjntercour.se is made men- 
tion of in the second verse of the same chapter — “The 
sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were 


fair, and they took them wives of all which they chose” 
(see Jour. Sac. Lit. Oct. 18G7). Well beloved (ad loc.) 
and others translate and interpret the passage so as to 
make it speak merely of “men of violence; men who 
beat down, oppressed, and plundered the weak and de- 
fenceless.” Doubtless this is an agreement with the 
meaning of the original word (which occurs also in 
Numb, xiii, 33, in connection with the Anakim). But 
these giants, as in other cases, would naturally be des- 
ignated by a descriptive name, and great strength is 
generally accompanied by violence and oppression. In 
our judgment, the bearing of the passage obviously fa- 
vors the common notion of giants, and that the rather 
because their origin is traced to some unexplained con- 
nection with “the sons of God,” that is, with beings 
of high endowments, if not of a superior nature. We 
have here given, in all probability, the true basis of all 
those mythological heroes with which the history of 
ancient nations is found to begin, such as Hercules and 
others of a like stamp. 1 1 is also especially woithv of 
note that these are ascribed to a similar parentage, 
half human, half celestial. Their famous deeds have 
been immortalized by their deification in every pro- 
fane system of religion. This appears to us a more 
substantial interpretation of the Greek and lloman, 
and even of the Indian and Scandinavian systems of 
mythology, than the subtle resolution of these semi- 
fabulous characters into symbols of the various powers 
of nature, after the mythical theory of the German 
writers. It is simply the traditions of these cases of 
antediluvian prowess and fame that the early poets of 
each nation have wrought up into the divine person- 
ages of their heroic age. Wc merely add that, by the 
“sons of God” and the “daughters of men” in t ho 
above passage, we are doubtless to understand the de- 
scendants of Seth and Cain respectively (see Gesenius, 
Heb. Thesaur. p. 96); yet Kitto inclines to regard the 
former as angelic beings ( Daily Illust. ad loc.). See 
Nephilim. 

2. In Gen. xiv, 5, we meet with a race termed Re- 
phaim (^PISiEp), as settled on the other side of the 
Jordan, in Ashteroth-fvarnaim, whom Chcdorlaomer 
defeated. Of this race was Og, king of Bashan, who 
alone remained, in the days of Moses (Dent, iii, 10), of 
the remnant of the Bephai'm. A passage, which is ob- 
viously from a later band, goes on to say, “ Behold, 
his bedstead (— canopy, others coffin ; see Michae- 
lis, Da the, Rosenmullcr) was a coffin of iron ; is it 
not in Habbath of the children of Ammon ? nine cu- 
bits is its length and four cubits its breadth, according 
to the cubit of a man,” or the natural length of the cu- 
bit. See Cubit. Tt does not appear to us to he 
enough to say that Og was “ no doubt a man of un- 
usual stature, but we cannot decide with accuracy 
what his stature was from the length of the iron couch 
of state or coffin in which he was placed” (Wellbe- 
loved, ad loc.). Whatever theory of explanation may 
he adopted, the writer of the passage clearly intended 
to speak of Og as a giant, and one of a race of giants 
(compare Josh, xii, 4 ; xiii, 12). See Og. 4 his race 
gave their name to a valley near Jerusalem, termed 
by the Sept, if koiXuq t(ov rireirio v. Sec Rephaim. 

The rephaim (A. V. “dead”) of Job xxvi, 5; Trow 
ii, 8, etc., are doubtless the shades of the departed. 
See Dead. 

3. The Analim or sons of Anode), 

In Numb, xiii, the spies sent by Moses before his army 
to survey the promised land, report, among other 
tilings, “ The people be strong that dwell in the land; 
and, moreover, wc saw the children of Anak” (verse 
28). This indirect mention of the children of Anak 
shows that they were a well-known gigantic race. In 
the 32dand 33d verses the statement is enhanced — “ It 
is a land that eateth up the inhabitants; and all the 
people that we saw in it are men of great stature. 
And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak which 


GIANT 


845 


GIANT 


came of the giants; and we were in our own sight as 
grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.” How- 
ever much of exaggeration fear may have given to the 
description, the passage seems beyond a doubt to show 
the current belief in a race of giants (Dent, ix, 2). 
From Deut. ii, 10, it appears that the size of the Ana- 
kin) became proverbial, and was used as a standard 
with which to compare others. In the time of Moses 
they dwelt in the environs of Hebron (Josh, xi, 22). 
They consisted of three branches or clans — “ Ahiman. 
Sheshai, and Talmai — the children of Anak” (Numb, 
xiii, 22). They were destroyed by Joshua (Josh, xi, 
21) “from the mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, 
from Anab, and from all the mountains of Judah, and 
from all the mountains of Israel : Joshua destroyed 
them utterly with their eities. There was none of the 
Anakim left in the land of the children of Israel : only 
in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, there remained” 
(Jiulg. i, 20; Josh, xiv, 12). See Anakim. 

From this remnant of the Anakim thus left in Gath 
of the Philistines proceeded the famous Goliath (r^>^), 

1 Sam. xvii, 4. This giant is said to have been in 
height six cubits and a span. He challenged the army 
of Israel, and put the soldiers in great alarm. The 
army of the Philistines and that of Israel were, how- 
ever, on the point of engaging, when David, the youn- 
gest son of Jesse, came near, bringing, at the command 
of his father, a supply of provisions to his three eldest 
brothers, who had followed Saul to the battle ; and, 
becoming aware of the defiance which had been again 
hurled at “the armies of the living God,” he at once 
went and presented himself as a champion to the king ; 
was offered, but refused, a coat of mail ; and, arming 
himself solely with a sling, smote the Philistine in his 
forehead, so that he fell upon his face to the earth, and 
was decapitated by David with his own sword. A 
general victory ensued. This achievement is ascribed 
to the divine aid (xvii, 4G, 47). In 2 Sam. xxi, 19, 
“Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like 
a weaver’s beam,” is said to have been slain by Ellia- 
nan, a chief in David’s army. This apparent contra- 
diction the common version tries to get over by in- 
serting words to make this Goliath the brother of him 
whom David put to death. Some suppose that the 
former was a descendant of the latter, bearing the 
same, perhaps a family name. See, however, the par- 
allel passage in 1 Chron. xx, 5. Ot]ier giants of the 
Philistines are mentioned in the passage before cited, 

2 Sam. xxi, 1G sq., namely : 1. “ Ishbi-benob, which 
was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear 
weighed three hundred shekels of brass, he being gird- 
ed with a new sword, thought to have slain David ; 
but Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, succored him, and 
smote the Philistine and killed him.” 2. Saph, who 
was of the sons of the giant, and was slain by Sibbe- 
chai. 3. “ A man of great stature, that had on every 
hand six fingers and on every foot six toes, four and 
twenty in number, and he also was born to the giant; 
and when he defied Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shim- 
eah, the brother of David, slew him.” These four 
were sons of the giant in Gath, that is, probably of 
the Goliath of Gath whom David slew (1 Kings xx, 8 ; 
2 Sam. xx, 22; 1 Sam. xvii, 4). See each of these 
names in their alphabetical order. 

4. Another race is mentioned in Deut. ii, 10, the 
Emim (a * *2“!K), who dwelt in the country of the Moab- 
ites. The}’’ are described as a people “great and 
many, and tall as the Anakims, which were also ac- 
counted giants” (Gen. xiv, 5). See Emim. 

5. The Zamzummim also (E^r^f) (Deut. xxi, 20), 
whose home was in the land of Ammon — “ That also 
was accounted a land of giants: giants dwelt therein 
of old time, and the Ammonites called them Zamzum- 
mirns, a people great and many, and tall as the Ana- 
kims ; but the Lord destroyed them before them, and 


they (the Israelites) succeeded them, and dwelt in 
their stead.” See Zamzummim. 

G. The only other passage where the term “giant” 
occurs (except as a rendering of yiyag in Judith xvi, 
G ; AVisd. xiv, 7 ; Ecclus. xvi, 7 ; xlvii, 4 ; Bar. iii, 2G ; 
1 Macc. iii, 3) is Job xvi, 14, w'here the original is 
“liS3, elsewhere “a mighty man” i. e. champion or 
hero. See Gibborim. 

All nations have had a dim fancy that the aborigines 
who preceded them, and the earliest men generally, 
were of immense stature. Berosus says that the ten 
antediluvian kings of Chaldiea w r ere giants, and w r e 
find in all monkish historians a similar statement 
about the earliest possessors of Britain (comp. Homer, 
Od. x, 119 ; Augustine, De Civ. Dei , xv, 9 ; Plinv, vii, 
1G ; Yarro, ap. Aul. Gell'tus , iii, 10; Jerome on Matt, 
xxvii). The great size decreased gradually after the 
Deluge (2 Esdr. v, 52-55). That we are dwarfs com- 
pared to our ancestors was a common belief among the 
Latin and Greek poets {II. v, 302 sq. ; Lncret. ii, 1151 ; 
Virg. AEn. xii, 900; Juv. xv, G9). On the origin of 
the mistaken supposition there are curious passages in 
Natalis Comes ( Mytholog . vi, 21) and Maciobius {Sa- 
turn. i, 20). See Nimrod. At an early period and 
under favorable circumstances, individuals, and even 
tribes, may have reached an unusual height and been 
of extraordinary strength. This was in great part, no 
doubt, owdng to the simpler mode of life and more 
hardy habits that prevailed in early times. But many 
things concur to show' that the size of the race did not 
differ materially from what it is at present. This is 
seen in the remains of human beings found in tombs, 
especially among the mummies of Egypt. To the 
same effect is the size of ancient armor, as w'ell as ar- 
chitectural dimensions, and the measures of length 
which have been received from antiquity. Ancient 
writers who are free from the influence of fable are 
found to give a concurrent testimony. “ Homer, 
when speaking of a fine man, gives him four cubits in 
height and one in breadth ; Vitruvius fixes the usual 
standard of a man at six Roman feet ; Aristotle’s ad- 
measurement of beds w r as six feet” (Millingen’s Curi- 
osities of Medical Experience , p. 14), No one has yet 
proved by experience the possibility of giant races, 
materially exceeding in size the average height of 
man. There is no great variation in the ordinary 
standard. The most stunted tribes of Esquimaux are 
at least four feet high, and the tallest races of America 
(e. g. the Guayaquilists and people of Paraguay) do 
not exceed six feet and a half. It was long thought 
that the Patagonians w'ere men of enormous stature, 
and the assertions of the old voyagers on the point 
were positive. For instance, Pigafetta {Voyage round 
the World , Pinkerton, xi, 314) mentions an individual 
Patagonian so tall that they “ hardly reached to his 
■waist.” Similar exaggerations are found in the voy- 
ages of Byron, AVa 11 ace, Carteret, Cook, and Forster; 
but it is now a matter of certainty, from the recent vis- 
its to Patagonia (by AVinter, captain Snow, etc.), that 
there is nothing at all extraordinary in their size. The 
general belief (until very recent times) in the exist- 
ence of fabulously enormous men arose from fancied 
giant-graves (see De la A r alle’s Travels in Persia , ii, 
89), and, above all, from the discovery of huge bones, 
which w'ere taken for those of men, in days when 
comparative anatomy was unknown. Even the an- 
cient Jew's were thus misled (Josephus, Ant. v, 2, 3). 
Augustine appeals triumphantly to this argument, and 
mentions a molar tooth which be had seen at Utica a 
hundred times larger than ordinary teeth {De Civ. Dei , 
xv, 9). No doubt it once belonged to an elephant. 
A T ives, in his commentary on the place, mentions a 
tooth as big as a fist which was shown at St. Christo- 
pher's. In fact, this source of delusion has only very 
recently been dispelled (Martin’s West. Islands, in Pin- 
kerton, ii, G91). Most bones which have been exliib- 


GIB 


84G 


GIBBON 


ited have turned out to belong to whales or elephants, 
as was the case with the vertebra of a supposed giant 
examined by Sir Hans Sloane in Oxfordshire. On 
the other hand, isolated instances of monstrosity are 
sufficiently attested to prove that beings like Goliath 
and his kinsmen may have existed. Columella ( R . 
R. iii, 8, § 2) mentions Navius Rollio as one, and Pliny 
says that in the time of Claudius Caisar there was an 
Arab named Gabbaras nearly ten feet high, and that 
even he was not so tall as Pusio and Secundilla in the 
reign of Augustus, whose bodies were preserved (vii, 
16). Josephus tells us that, among other hostages, 
Artabanus sent to Tiberius a certain Eleazar, a Jew, 
surnamed “the Giant,” seven cubits in height (Ant. 
xviii, 4, 5). Porus, the Indian king, was five cubits 
in height (Arrian, Exp. Al. v, 19). Nor are well-au- 
thenticated instances wanting in modern times. Del- 
rio says he saw in 1572 a man from Piedmont whose 
height exceeded nine feet (Not. ad Senec. (Ed. p. 39). 
O'Brien, whose skeleton is preserved in the Museum 
of the College of Surgeons, must have been eight feet 
high, but his unnatural height made him weakly. On 
the other hand, the blacksmith Parsons, in Charles IPs 
reign, was seven feet two inches high, and also re- 
markable for his strength (Fuller’s Worthies, Stafford- 
shire). The tallest person of whom we have a trust- 
worthy record did not, according to Haller, exceed 
nine feet. Schreber, who has collected the description 
of the principabmodern giants, found few above seven 
feet and a half, although he mentions a Swedish peas- 
ant of eight feet Swedish measure ; and one of the 
guards of the duke of Brunswick was eight feet six 
inches Dutch. Such well-known instances as those 
of Daniel Lambert and others in modern museums 
probably come fully up to an}' of the measures of the 
Biblical giants. See art. Giant in the Encyclopa dia 
Metropolitana ; Whiston, “On the old Giants,” Auth. 
Records , ii, 872-938 ; Prichard, Researches into the Phys- 
ical Iliotory of Mankind, i, 358 (183G). — Kitto, s. v. ; 
Smith, s. v. 

Gib, Adam, one of the founders of the anti-burgher 
secession in Scotland, was born in Perthshire in 1713, 
and educated in Edinburgh. He was a bitter oppo- 
nent of private church patronage, and in 1733 -was dis- 
missed from his pastoral charge. He was made pas- 
tor of a secession church in Edinburgh in 1741, and 
when the dispute began in 1743 about the swearing of 
the oaths of burgesses, Mr. Gib was considered the 
ablest advocate of the anti-burgher party. He died 
in 1788. He published A Display of the Secession Tes- 
timony (1744, 2 vols. Svo) : — Sacred Contemplations, with 
an essa} r appended on Liberty and Necessity in reply to 
Lord Ivames (1786). — Allibone, Dictionary of Authors, 
i, 660; Rose, New General Biographical Dictionary , 
viii, 18. 

Gib'bar (Chald. Gihhar', ^ , for Heb. W2&, a 
hero, as in Dan. iii, 20; Sept. Tfr/ltp, Vulgate Gtbbar), 
given as the name of a man whose descendants to the 
number of 95 returned with Zerubbabel from Babylon 
(Ezra ii, 20), probably an error for the remnants of the 
natives of Gideon (Neh. vii, 25). 

Gib'bethon (Hebrew Gibbethon, “ir23, a height; 
Sept. Va(3a6ibv v. r. Vafi&ow, Pa /3«wj\ V&tCuv and 
l>£yf3w), a city of the Philistines, which was included 
in the territories of the tribe of Dan (Josh, xix, 44), 
and was assigned, with its “ suburbs,” to the Kohathite 
Levites (Josh, xxi, 23). It was still in the hands of 
the Philistines in the time of Nadab, king of Israel, 
who besieged it, and was slain under its walls by Baa- 
sha, one of his own officers (1 Kings xv, 27). B.C. 
950. The effort to expel the Philistines seems to have 
been continued by the forces of the northern kingdom, 
till the siege was finally raised by Omri in consequence 
of the necessity of pursuing the usurper Zimri (1 Kings 
xvi, 15). B.C. 926. It is said by Eusebius and Je- 
rome (apparently even to their time) to be inhabited 


by Gentiles (rm> *A\\o0i'\wv rafiaSrohi), but they ex* 
pressly distinguish this from the Daiiite town, and they 
seem uncertain whether to identify it with a village 
(ttoAi'yi'i/) called Gabe (P a fit), about 16 R. miles from 
Caesarea, near the great plain of Legio, or with one of 
two or three other places named Gabbatha (Onomast. 
s. v. Prt/3o3wi', Gabathon). Josephus (Ant. viii, 12, 5) 
calls it Gabathone (VafiaStovrf). The signification of 
the name and the great strength of the place seem to 
fix it upon the hills west of Gibeah of Benjamin (with 
w hich M. D. Saulcy confounds its locality, Narrative , 
i, 98). It is possibly the modern large village Saidon , 
a short distance beA'ond the well S.E. of Ramlch (Rob- 
inson, Researches, iii, 21). Van de Velde calls it also 
Sheik Musa (Memoir, p. 114). 

Gibbites, The, a small fanatical sect in Scotland 
about 1681, named from their leader, John Gib, a sail- 
or. They never exceeded thirty persons. Their doc- 
trines were a compound of Quaker ideas, with some of 
the extreme speculative views of the strict Covenant- 
ers. They were seized as a body, put into the House 
of Correction, and soon ceased to exist as a sect. — I Ieth- 
erington, Church of Scotland, ii, 114. 

Gibbon, Edward, historian, was born at Putney, 
in Surrey, A'pril 27, 1737. He w r as sent to Oxford too 
young, and did not learn much there. At sixteen he 
embraced Romanism. He was immediately placed un- 
der the care of a Calvinist minister at Lausanne, whose 
instructions led him in a few r months back to Protes- 
tantism. “ The five years he spent at Lausanne, clos- 
ing in 1758, when he was just of age, formed the real 
commencement of his education ; and at their close, he 
w r as. not only a ripe scholar in French and Latin, but 
possessed of an extraordinary amount of historical and 
other information. He found leisure, however, for fall- 
ing in love, unsuccessfully, w r ith a young lady, who 
afterwards became the wife of M. Neeker, and the 
mother of Madame de Stack For several years after 
Gibbon's return to England he lived chiefly at his fa- 
ther’s house in Hampshire, and, failing in attempts to 
obtain diplomatic employment, he accepted a militia 
commission, attended zealously to his duties, and rose 
to be lieutenant colonel. But the studious habits and 
literary ambition which he had acquired never flagged. 
In. 1761 he published, in French, a short essay On the 
Study of Literature. He extended his acquaintance 
with English authors, and, beginning to learn Greek 
thoroughly, pursued the study zealously, wdien, in 1763, 
he was allowed again to visit the Continent. In Rome, 
next year, he conceived the design of his great liLtor- 
ical work. Returning home in 17G5, he passed some 
years unsatisfactorily to himself, but not without much 
improvement both in knowledge and in skill of writ- 
ing. In 1774 he entered the House of Commons, in 
which he sat for eight sessions ; and he w’as rewarded 
for his silent votes in favor of Lord North’s adminis- 
tration by holding for three years a seat at the Board 
of Trade. In 1770 he published, in answer to Warbur- 
ton, his spirited Dissertation on the Sixth Book of the 
sEneid. In the same year, the death of his father 
placed him in possession of a fortune, which, though 
embarrassed, lie w'as able to extricate so far that it af- 
forded a handsome competence, and enabled him to de- 
vote himself exclusively to study and composition. 
In 1776 he published the first volume of The History 
of the Decline and Fall of (he Roman Empire, the first 
edition of which was sold in a few' days, and was rap- 
idly followed by others. The second and third vol- 
umes, appearing in 1781, brought down the narrative 
to the fall of the Western Empire; and for a while the 
author hesitated whether he should not here allow the 
work to drop” (Rich, Blog. s. v.). He resumed the de- 
sign, however, in*1783, when lie fixed his abode at Lau- 
sanne, and prepared the remaining volumes, the last 
of which appeared in 1788. He died January 16, 1794, 
during his last visit to England. His posthumous 


GIBBONS 


847 


GIBBORIM 


works were published by liis friend Lord Sheffield. The 
best editions of the “ Decline and Fall” are that of Mil- 
man (Loud. 1 84G, G vols. 8vo, 2d edit.), and that by Dr. 
Wm. Smith (1855, 8 vols. Svo). In a literary point of 
view, the merits of this history are very great ; its style 
has a loftiness in harmon}' with the grandeur of the 
theme ; its erudition is vast to a degree unknown before 
in English writers of history; its arrangement is lumi- 
nous, and its execution is sustained at the same point 
of excellence throughout. But Gibbon was an infidel, 
and his unbelief lurks in every page of his work where 
Christianity is nearly or remotely touched on. His skep- 
ticism leads him into manifold displays of unfairness, 
and even into inaccuracies, many of which are correct- 
ed in Milman’s notes. Dr. J. M. Macdonald wrote an 
able article in the Bibliotheca Sacra (July, 18G8), de- 
fending Gibbon from the charge of infidelity, and seek- 
ing to account for the opposite opinion about him so 
generally adopted. The attempt is very ingenious, 
but will not shake the established opinion. — Milman, 
Life of E. Gibbon (Lond. 1839, Svo) ; Quarterly Re vie tv, 
xii, 375; Ixii, 19G; Literary and Thcol. Review , ii, 38; 
Christian Review, xiii, 34; National Review , Jan. 1856. 

Gibbons, Thomas, D.D., a pious and eminent 
English dissenter, was born at Beak, near Cambridge, 
in 1720. Ilis father, who was pastor of a Congrega- 
tional church at Olney, in Bucks, gave him the best 
education his circumstances would permit. In 1742 
he became acquainted with Dr. Isaac "Watts ; and by 
showing him a volume of poems in manuscript, an 
intimate friendship was formed between them, which 
continued unabated to the close of Dr. Watts’s life. 
In 1743 Dr. Gibbons was called to the pastoral charge 
of the Independent church meeting in Haberdashers’ 
hall, Cheapside, which he held till his death, Feb. 22, 
1785. lie wrote Memoirs of Dr, Watts (1780, Svo): — 
Poems, on several Occasions (1743): — Rhetoric ; or, a 
View of its principal Tropes and Figures, in their Origin 
and Powers (17G7, Svo) : — Hymns (1709): — Hymns, sec- 
ond series, entirely original (1784): — Lives and Me- 
moirs of eminently pious Women (1777, 2 vols. 8vo). Af- 
ter Dr. Gibbons’s death, three volumes of sermons by 
him were published in 8vo by subscription. Some of 
his hymns are still used, and will continue to hold 
their place in Christian song. — Jones, Christian Biog- 
raphy, p. 177 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliograph. i, 1244. 

Gibbonm, plur. of ^*125, Gibber , a warrior (Isa. 
iii, 2; Ezek. xxxix, 20); especially spoken of David’s 
noted braves or u mighty men” (2 Sam. xxiii, 8; 1 
Kings i, 8 ; 1 Chro'n. xi, 2G; xxix, 24). See Cham- 
pion. The sons of the marriages mentioned in Gen. 
vi, 1-4, are called Gibborini (S^ZlS, from “"C-l, to be 
strong), a general name meaning powerful (jufipiarai 
icai mivTog virtpOTTrai KaXov, Josephus, Ant. i, 3, 1 ; 
yijg Tratdeg top vqvv tKfiifiaaavrtg rou Xoyi^toQai 
k. r. X., Philo, De Gigant. p. 270; comp. Isa. xlix, 24 ; 
Ezek. xxxii, 21). They Mere not necessarily giants 
in our sense of the word (Theodoret, Quast. 48). Yet, 
as M r as natural, these powerful chiefs Mere almost uni- 
versally represented as men of extraordinary stature. 
The Sept, renders the word yiyaurtg, and call Nimrod 
a yiyag Kvrijy6g(l Chron. i, 10) ; Augustine calls them 
Staturosi (De Civ. Dei, xv, 4); Chrysostom i/pioeg tu- 
pijKtic, Theodoret TiafiptytOtig (comp. Bar. iii, 2G, tbpt- 
ytOttc, iTTwrapevoL ic oXegoii). 

These beings are chiefly interesting as connected 
with the question, Who M ere their parents, “ the sons 
of God” (2*'n*2Xfl ^22)? The opinions respecting 
the import of this latter title are various : (1.) Men of 
power (otoi ivvaoTivovrtov, Symm., Jerome, Qua?st. 
IJeb. adloc. ; X* 2727 l *r!2, Onk. ; *^2, Sa- 

mar. ; so too Selden, Vorst, etc.), (compare Psa. ii,7; 
Ixxxii, 6 ; Ixxxix, 27; Mic. v, 5, etc.). The expres- 
sion will then exactly resemble Homer’s Aioyeueig Ba- 
ciXijtg, and the Chinese Tidn-tseu , “son of heaven,” as 


| a title of the emperor (Gesenius, s. v. ) 2). But why 
should the union of the high-born and the low-born 
produce offspring unusual for their size and strength ? 
(2.) Men with great gifts, “in the image of God” (Bit- 
ter, Schumann) ; (3.) Cainites arrogantly assuming the 
title (Paul us); or (4.) the pious Sethites (comp. Gen. 
iv, 2G; Maimon. Mor. Neboch. i, 14 ; Suidas, s. v. E//0 
and piaiyapiag ; Cedren. Hist. Comp. p. 10 ; Augus- 
tine, De Civ. Dei, xv, 23 ; Chrysost. Horn. 22, in Gen. ; 
Theod. in Gen. Quast. 47 ; Cyril, c. Jul. ix, etc.). A 
! host of modern commentators catch at this explana- 
tion, but Gen. iv, 2G has probably no connection M r ith 
the subject. Other texts quoted in favor of the view 
are Deut. xiv, 1, 2; Psa. lxxiii, 15; ITov. xiv, 2G; 
IIos. i, 10; Bom. viii, 14, etc. Still the mere antitlie- 
j sis in the verse, as M r ell as other considerations, tend 
strongly against this gloss, M’hich indeed is built on a 
foregone conclusion. Compare, lunvever, the Indian 
notion of the two races of men Suras and Asuras (chil- 
dren of the sun and of the moon, Nork, Bramm. und 
Rabb. p. 204 sq.), and the Persian belief in the mar- 
riage of Jemshid ndth a sister of a dev, whence sprang 
black and impious men (Kalisch, Gen. p. 175). 5. Wor- 
shippers of false gods (tt aidtg tujv 9tiov, Aqu.) making 
722 = “servants” (comp. Dent, xiv, 1 ; Prov. xiv, 2G; 
Exod. xxxii, 1 ; Deut. iv, 28, etc.). This view is ably 
supported by Poole in Genesis of Earth and Man, p. 39 
sq. (G.) Devils, such as the Incubi and Succubi. Such 
M r as the belief of the Cabbalists (Valesius, L)e S.Phi - 
losoph. cap. 8). That these beings can have intercourse 
with women St. Augustine declares it M ould lie folly 
to doubt, and it M'as the universal belief in the East. 
Mohammed makes one of the ancestors of Balkis, 
queen of Slieba, a dromon, and Damir says he had 
heard a Mohammedan doctor openly boast of having 
married in succession four dromon M-ives (Bochart, 
flieroz. i, p. 747). Indeed, the belief still exists (Lane’s 
Mod. Eg. i, ch. x, ad in.). (7.) Closely allied to this is 

the oldest opinion, that they M'ere angels (Sept, dyyt- 
Xoi too 0£ou, for such was the old reading, not viol, 
August. De Civ. Dei, xv, 23 ; so too Josephus, Ant. i, 3, 
1 ; Philo, De Gig. ii, 358 ; Clem. Alex. Strom, iii, 7, G9 ; 
Sulp. Sever. Hist. Script, in Orthod. 1, i, etc. ; compare 
Job i, 6; ii, 1; Psa. xxix, 1; Job iv, 18). The rare 
expression “sons of God” certainly means angels in 
Job xxxviii, 7 ; i, 6 ; ii, 1 ; and that such is the mean- 
ing in Gen. vi, 4 also, Mas the most prevalent opinion 
both in the Jewish and early Christian Church. It 
seems, however, to be directly negatived by Matt, xxii, 
30. See Sons of Gor>. 

It M r as probably this very ancient view which gave 
rise to the spurious hook of Enoch, and the notion 
quoted from it by Jude (G), and alluded to by Peter (2 
Pet. ii, 4; compare 1 Cor. xi, 10; Tertul. De Yirg. Vel. 
7). According to this book, certain angels, sent by 
God to guard tlie earth (’ Rypi]yopoi , (pvXatcec), Mere 
perverted by the beauty of women, “went after strange 
flesh,” taught sorcery, finely ( lumina lapillorum, circu- 
los ex aure, Tertullian, etc.), and, being banished from 
heaven, had sons 3000 cubits high, thus originating a 
celestial and terrestrial race of dromons — “ Unde modo 
vagi subvertunt corpora mnlta” (Commodiani Instruct. 
Ill , Cultus Dtemonum), i. e. they are still the souree of 
epilepsy, etc. Various names Mere given at a later 
time to these monsters. Their chief Mas Leuixas, and 
of their number M ere Maclisael, Aza, Sbemcliozai, and 
(the wickedest of them) a goat-like dromon Azael (com- 
pare Azazel, Lev. xvi,8: and for the very curious ques- 
tions connected with this name, see Bochart, Ilieroz. 
i, G52 sq. ; Bab. Eliezer, cap. 23, Bereshitli Rah. ad Gen. 
vi, 2; Sennert, De Gigantilus, iii). See Asmod.eus. 

Against this notion (M’hich lliivernick calls “the 
silliest whim of the Alexandrian Gnostics and Cabba- 
listic Babbis,” Introd. to Pentateuch, p. 345) Heidegger 
(Hist. Pair. I. c.) quotes Matt, xxii, 30; Luke xxiv, 
39, and similar testimonies. Philastrius (Adv. Ilwres . 


GIBBS 


848 


GIBEAH 


cap. 108) characterizes it as a heresy, and Chrysostom 
( Horn . 22) even calls it to (3\ uo<p)fpa iicth' o. Vet Jude 
(ver. 6, 7) is explicit, and the question is not so much 
what can l»e, as what was believed. 1 lie fathers al- 
most unanimously accepted these fables, and Tertul- 
lian argues warmly (partly on expedient grounds!) for 
the genuineness of the book of Enoch. The angels 
were called ’E yfjgyopoi, watchers , a word used by 
Aquil. and Symin. to render the Chaldee T 1 " (Dan. 
iv, 13 sq. ; Vulg. Vigil ; Sept, tip ; Lex Cyrilli, dyytXoi 
^ dypvni'oi ; Fabric. Cod. Pseudepigr. V. 77 p. 180), and 
therefore used, as in the Zend-Avesta, of good guar- 
dian angels, and applied especially to archangels in 
the Syriac liturgies (compare Isa. xxi, 11), but 

more often of evil angels (Castelli Lex. Syr. p. 649; 
►Scaligcr, ml Euseb. Chrcn . p. 403; Gcsenius, Thes. s. v. 
T"). The story of the Egregori is given at length in 
Tcrtull. De Cult. Fan. i, 2; ii, 10; Commodianus, In- 
struct. iii. ; Lactant. Div. Inst . ii, 14 ; Testam. Pat Hare. 
c. v., etc. Every one will remember the allusions to 
the same interpretation in Milton, Par. Reg. ii, 179: 


Biblical Chaldee, 1828 ; 2d edit, enlarged, New Haven, 
1832, 8vo. In 1824 lie was called to be lecturer of sa- 
cred literature in the theological school of Yale Col- 
| lege. In 1826 a professorship in that branch was 
founded, to which Mr. Gibbs was called. lie remain- 
[ ed in this post until his death, March 25, 1861, at New 
llavcn. Professor Gibbs was a constant contributor 
to periodicals, especially on the points of Biblical crit- 
j ieism, archaeology, and philological science. Many of 
| his valuable papers appeared in newspapers, often 
I anonymously. Others were published in the Chris- 
I tian Spectator , Biblical Repository, New Englander, and 
American Journal of Science. During his later years 
his attention was chiefly given to comparative gram- 
mar, and in this branch, as in every other which he 
touched, his work was that of a thorough scholar. For 
j several years he was one of the publishing committee 
| of the American Oriental Society. Some of his essays 
were collected, with additions, under the title Philo- 
logical Studies , with English Illustrations (New Ilaven, 
1856), and Teutonic Etymology (New Haven, I860). — 
Fisher, in New Englander , July, 18G1, ait. ii, 


“ Before the Flood, thou with thy lusty crew. 
False-titled sons of God, roaming the earth, 

Cast wanton eyes on the daughters of men. 

And coupled with them, and begat a race.” 

The use made of the legend in some modern poems 
deserves to be severely reprobated. See Angel. 

We need hardly say how closely allied this is to the 
Greek legends which connected the ciypia <jw\a yiydi 1 - 
Tior with the gods (Ilomer, Od. vii, 205; Pausan. viii, 
29), and made c cii gov sq sons of the gods (Plato, Apolog. 
ygiOeoi ; Cratylus, § 32). Indeed, the whole heathen 
tradition resembles the one before us (Cumberland’s 
Sanchoniatho, p. 24; Homer, Od. xi, 306 sq. ; Hesiod, 
Theog. 185, Opp. et I). 144 ; Plato, Pep. ii, § 17, 604 E. ; 
De Legg. iii, § 16, 805 A. ; Ovid, Met am. i, 151 ; Lu- 
can, iv, 293; Lucian, De Ded Syr., etc. ; compare Gro- 
tius, De Ver. i, 6); and the Greek translators of the 
Bible make the resemblance still more close by intro- 
ducing such words as 9i6pa\oi, y ip/tveig, and even 
Tiraveg, to which last Josephus (/. c.) expressly com- 
pares the giants of Genesis (Sept, at Prov. ii, 18; Psa. 
xl viii, 2 ; 1 Sam. v, 18 ; J uditli xvi, 5). The fate, too, 
of these daemon-chiefs is identical with that of heathen 
story (Job xxvi, 5 ; Sir. xvi, 7 ; Bar. iii, 26-28 ; Wisd. 
xiv, 6; 3 Mace, ii, 4; 1 Pet. iii, 19). See D.emon. 

These legends may therefore be regarded as distor- 
tions of the Biblical narrative, handed down by tradi- 
tion, and embellished by the fancy and imagination 
of Eastern nations (Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 395 
sq.). The belief of the Jews in later times is remark- 
ably illustrated by the story of Asmodanis in the book 
of 1 obit. It is deeply instructive to observe how wide 
and marked a contrast there is between the incidental 
allusion of the sacred narrative (Gen. vi, 4), and the 
minute frivolities or prurient follies which degrade the 
heathen mythology, and repeatedly appear in the 
groundless imaginings of the IJabbinic interpreters. 
If there were fallen angels whose lawless desires gave 
birth to a monstrous progeny, both they and their in- 
tolerable offspring were destroyed by the deluge, 
which was the retribution on their wickedness, and 
they have no existence in the baptized and renovated 
earth. — Smith, s. v. Giants. Sec Giant. 

Gibbs, Josiaii W., LL.P., professor in the theo- 
logical department of Yale College, was born in Sa- 
lem. Mass., April 30, 1 790. lie graduated at Yale Col- 
lege in 1809, and was tutor in the College from 1811 
till 1815. lie then spent some years at Andover, 
Mass., devoting himself to the study of Hebrew and 
biblical literature. While there lie publislved a trans- 
lation of Storr on The Historical Sense of the New Tes- 
tament (Boston, 1817, 12mo), and also prepared a trans- 
lation of Geseiiius’s Hebrew- Lexicon, which appeared 
in 1x24; also London, 1827, 2d edit. 1832: in abridged 
form. Manual Hebrew and English Lexicon, including 


Gib'ea (Ileb. Giba' , hill; Sept. T cu(3aa v. 

r. VcafidX), a place built or occupied in connection 
with Macbenah by Sheva, son of Caleb’s concubine 
Maaciiah (1 Chron. ii, 49) ; hence probably the same 
with G i beau (q. v.) of Judah (Josh, xv, 57). 

Gib'eah (Heb. Gibah' , a hill , as the word 

is sometimes rendered ; likewise the Sept., which usu- 
ally has r«/3««, but in Josh, xviii ro/3«o S'; Josephus 
Yajja&b, Ant. vi, 4, 6), the name of three cities, all 
doubtless situated on hills. The term is derived, ac- 
cording to Gesenius {Thes. p. 259, 260), from a root, 
"^3, signifying to be round or humped (compare the 
Latin gibbus, Eng. gibbous ; the Arabic jtbel, a moun- 
tain, and the German gipfel ). It is employed in the 
Heb. Bible to denote a “ hill,” that is, an eminence of 
less considerable height and extent than a “ moun- 
tain,” the term for which is “’Ft, har. For the distinc- 
tion between the two terms, see Psa. cxlviii, 9 ; Prov. 
viii, 25; Isa. ii, 2; xl, 4, etc. In the historical hooks 
gibeah is commonly applied to the bald, rounded hills 
of Central Palestine, especially in the neighborhood of 
Jerusalem (Stanley, Palest. App. § 25). There is no 
lack of tlic corresponding name among the villages of 
Central Palestine. Several of these are merely men- 
tioned as appellatives : 

(1.) The “hill of the foreskins” (Josh, v, 3), be- 
tween the Jordan and Jericho; it derives its name from 
the circumcision which took place there, and the vi- 
cinity seems afterwards to have received the name of 
Gilgal (q. v.). 

(2.) “The hill” of Ivirjath-jearim, a place in which 
the ark remained from the time of its return by the 
Philistines till its removal by David (2 Sam. vi, 3, 4; 
comp. 1 Sam. vii, 3, 2). See Kirjatii-jearim. 

(3.) The hill of Moreh (Judg. vii, 1). See Moreii. 

(4.) The hill of God — Gibeah ha-EIohim (1 Sain, x, 
5) ; one of the [daces in the route of Saul, which is so 
difficult to trace. In verses 10 and 13 it is apparently 
called “the hill,” and “the high place.” See Elo- 
jiim. 

(5.) The hill of Hacliilali (1 Sam. xxiii, 19; xxvi, 
1). See Haciiil.ah. 

(G.) The hill of Ammah (2 Sam. ii, 24). Sec Am- 

M All. 

(7.) The hill of Gareb (Jer. xxxi, 39). Sec Gareb. 
— Smith, s. v. 

1. Gibeah of Benjamin is historically the most 
important of the places hearing this name. It is call- 
ed “Gibeah of Benjamin” (1 Sam. xiii, 15; 2 Sam. 
xxiii, 29) and “'Gibeah of Saul” (1 Sam. xi, 4; Isa. 
x, 39; \6(f)oc YflocAoc, Josephus, P Vir, v, 2, 1); also 
“ Gibeah of God,” rendered hill of God (1 Sam. x, 5) ; 
and Gibeatji (Josh, xviii, 28, where is enumerated 


GIBEAH 


849 


GIBEOX 


among the last group of the towns of Benjamin, next 
to Jerusalem). This last name (rrS3, which fre- 
quently appears elsewhere in the original), being the 
form olf Gibeah in the construct state , has been joined 
bv some to the following name, i. e. “ Gibeah of Kir- 
jath-jearim” (Schwarz, Phys. Descrip . of Palestine , p. 
132) ; but these two cities are evidently counted sepa- 
rately in the text. Others regard ‘‘Gibeah” here as 
a mere appellative denoting some hill near Kirjath- 
jearim (compare 1 Sam. vii, 1, 2). This city is often 
mentioned in Scripture (llos. v, 8 ; ix, 9 ; x, 9 ; 1 Sam. 
x, 26). It was the scene of the atrocious crime which 
involved in its consequences almost the entire extirpa- 
tion of the tribe of Benjamin (Judg. xix, 12-30; xx, 
1-48). It soon recovered from that eventful siege and 
sack. It was the birth-place of Saul, and continued 
to be his residence after he became king (1 Sam. x, 
2G ; xi, 4; xv, 33; xxiii, 19; xxvi, 1); and it was 
doubtless on account of this its intimate connection 
with Saul that the Gibeonites hanged up here his sev- 
en descendants (2 Sam. xxi, G). An erroneous trans- 
lation of the name lias led to the misapprehension that 
this was the scene of Jonathan’s romantic exploits 
against the Philistines (1 Sam. xiv). See Geba. Like 
Bethel, it seems to have been reckoned among the an- 
cient sanctuaries of Palestine (1 Sam. x, 5, G ; xv, 34 ; 
xxiii, 19; xxvi, 1; 2 Sam. xxi, G-10). The inhabit- 
ants were called Gibcatliites (1 Chron. xii, 3). Jose- 
phus locates it twenty {Ant. v, 2, 8) or thirty (JK«r, 
v, 2, 1, rafiaSvaovXtj) stadia north of Jerusalem. Je- 
rome speaks of Gibeah as, in his time, level with the 
ground ( Ep . 8G, ad Eustoch .), and since then it does 
not appear to have been visited by travellers till re- 
cently. Ur. Robinson at first identified it with Jeba, 
a half-ruined place about five miles north by east of 
Jerusalem ( Researches , ii, 114) ; but he afterwards re- 
tracted this position as being that of Geba {Bibliotheca 
Sacra , 1844, p. 598); and he has finally fixed upon 
Tell el-Ful, about four miles north by west of Jerusa- 
lem, as the site of Gibeah of Saul (new cd. of Research- 
es, iii, 28G). Tell el-Ful (“hill of the bean”) is a high 
knoll, with a curiously knobbed and double top, having 
a 1 lrge heap of stones upon it. There seems to have 
originally been here a square tower, fifty-six feet by 
forty-eight, built of large unhewn stones, and appar- 
ently ancient; this has been thrown down, and the 
stones and rubbish, falling outside, have assumed the 
form of a large pyramidal mound. No trace of other 
foundations is to be seen. The spot is sightly, and 
commands a very extensive view of the country in all 
directions, especially towards the east. There are no 
other remains around the hill itself; but a few rods 
further west, directly upon the great road as it en- 
ters the lower plain or valley, there are seen a number 
of ancient substructions, consisting of large unhewn 
stones in low massive walls. Probably the ancient 
city extended down from the hill on this side and in- 
cluded this spot (Robinson, in Researches and Biblioth. 
Sacra , lit sup. ; Stanley’s Palestine , p. 210). The an- 
cient road from Jerusalem to Bethel and Shechem 
passes close along its western base, and Hamah is in 
full view on another hill two miles further north {Hand- 
book of S. and P. p. 325). The narrative of the Levite’s 
journey is thus made remarkably graphic. He left 
Bethlehem in the afternoon to go home to Mount 
Ephraim. Two hours’ travel (six miles) brought him 
alongside Jerusalem. Evening was now approaching. 
His servant advised him to lodge in Jehus, but he de- 
clined to stop with strangers, and said he would pass 
on to Gibeah or Ramah. The “ sun went down upon 
them when they were by Gibeah,” and they resolved 
to pass the night there (Judg. xix). The site of Gib- 
eah was well adapted to form the capital of Israel dur- 
ing the troublous times of Saul, when the whole coun- 
try was overrun by the hostile bands of the Philis- 
tines. It was naturally strong, it was on the very 
crest of the mountain range, and it commanded a wide 
III.— H h ii 


view, so that Saul’s watchmen could give timely no- 
tice of the approach of the enemy. 

2, Gibeah of Judaii, situated in the mountains of 
that tribe (Josh, xv, 57, where it is named with Maon 
and the southern Carmel ; compare 1 Chron. ii, 49), 
which, under the name of Gabatha {VafiaSci), Eusebius- 
and Jerome place twelve Roman miles from Eleuther- 
opolis, and state that the grave of the prophet Ilabak- 
knk was there to be seen ( Onomasticon , s. v. YafiadS, 
Gabaath ; although they there confound it with the 
Gibeah of Phinehas in Ephraim, and elsewhere [s. v. 
KfaAn, Ceila] state that Habakkuk’s tomb was shown 
in Keilah), or, more probably, one of those by a simi- 
lar name (r«/3«n\ Vaf3a$(i) lying in the Daroma or 
near Bethlehem {ib. s. v. YafiaSuv, Gabathon). Dr. 
Robinson ( Researches , ii, 327) identifies it with the vil- 
lage of Jtbcili , which stands upon an isolated hill, in 
the midst of wady el-Mtissur, about ten miles south- 
west of Jerusalem ; but this is too far from tiie associ- 
ated names in Joshua, which require a location south- 
east of Hebron (Keil, Comment . ad loe.), possibly at 
the ruins on a mound with caves marked as Frfaiyeh 
on Van de Velde’s Map east of tell Zif. See Judah. 

3. Gibeaii of Phinehas, in Mount Ephraim, where 
the high-priest Eleazar, son of Aaron, was buried by 
his son Phinehas (Josh, xxiv, 33, where the name is 
rendered “hill of Phinehas”). Eusebius and Jerome 
{Onomasl. s. v. Yi)(3tvd, Gebin) probably mention this 
place by the name of Geba (although they incorrectly 
identify this with the Gcbim of Isa. x, 31) (s. v. “ Ge- 
bim”), five Roman miles from Goplma, on the road to 
Neapolis (Shechem), which was itself fifteen Roman 
miles north of Jerusalem. Josephus appears also to 
allude to it {YafiaSd, Ant. v, 1, 20). Dr. Robinson 
{Researches, iii, 80, note) finds it in a narrow valley 
called wady el-Jib, the Geeb of Maundrell, lying just 
midway on the road between Jerusalem and Shechem ; 
the indication of direction in the Onomasticon agrees 
with the position of the village Jibea (located on that 
wady), west of the Nablus road, half way between 
Bethel and Shiloh (Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 315), 
but the distance still better suits that of the Moslem 
ruined village Jibia , west of this (Robinson, Reseai'ch- 
es, iii, Append, p. 125; Van de Velde, Map'). 

Gib'eath (Josh, xviii, 28). See Gibeaii 1. 

Gib'eathite (Heb. with the article hay-Gibathi' , 
; Sept, o r«/3rt3(n/c v. r. Yafiaunjc, Vij3oj- 
Sanjc), the designation of a native of Gibeah (1 Chron. 
xii, 3); in this case, Shemaah, or “the Shemaah,” fa- 
ther of two Benjamites, “ Saul’s brethren,” who joined 
David. See Gibeah 1. 

Gib'eon (Heb. Gibon, yesa, hill-city ; Sept. IYr- 
ficuov, Josephus Tafiadi), one of the four cities of the 
Ilivites, the others being Beeroth (omitted by Jose- 
phus, Ant. v, 2, 16), Chephirah, and Kirjath-jearim 
(Josh, ix, 17). See Canaanite. Its inhabitants 
made a league with Joshua (ix, 3-15), and thus escaped 
the fate of Jericho and Ai (comp, xi, 19). See Gibe- 
onite. It appears, as might be inferred from its tak- 
ing the initiative in this matter, to have been the 
largest of the four — “ a great city, like one of the royal 
cities”- — larger than Ai (x, 2). Its men, too, were all 
practiced warriors ( Gibborim , C 1 *^?*). Giheon lay 
within the territory of Benjamin (xviii, 25), and with 
its “ suburbs” was allotted to the priests (xxi, 17), of 
whom it afterwards became a principal station, where 
the tabernacle was set up for many years under David 
and Solomon (1 Chron. xvi, 39 ; xxi, 29 ; 2 Chron. i, 3), 
the ark being at the same time at Jerusalem (2 Chron. 
i, 4). For these and other notices in the historical 
books of Scripture, see below. From Jer. xii, 16, we 
may infer that after the destruction of Jerusalem by 
Nebuchadnezzar, Giheon again became the seat of 
government. It produced prophets in the days of 
Jeremiah (Jer. xxviii, 1). After the captivity we find 


GIBEON 


850 


GIBEON 


the “ men of Gibeon” returning ■with Zerubbabel (Neb. 
vii, 25 : in the list of Ezra the name is altered to Gic- 
baii), and assisting Nehemiah in the repair of the wall 
of Jerusalem (iii, 7). In the post-Biblical times it was 
the scene of a victory by the Jews over the ltoman 
troops under Cestius Gallus, which offers in many re- 
spects a close parallel with that of Joshua over the Ca- 
nannites (Josephus, ir«r, ii, 19, 7 ; Stanley, Palest, p. 
212). In 2 Sam. v, 25 it would seem to be called 
Geba (where the error of the original has been follow- 
ed by all the versions), as compared with 1 Chron. xiv, 
10; but it is to be distinguished from both Gcba and 
Gibeali. It is said (2 Sam. ii, 13) that there was a 
pool in Gibeon. Whether it were of any considerable 
extent does not appear from this passage; but there is 
little doubt that it is the same as “the great waters 
that are in Gibeon” (Jer. xli, 12). There was also a 
great stone or rock here (2 Sam. xx, 8), and also the 
great high place (1 Kings iii, 4). All this shows that 
Gibeon was situated on an eminence, as its name im- 
ports. 

Location. — None of the scriptural passages mark 
the site of Gibeon ; but there are indications of it in 
Josephus (IVar, ii, 19, 1), who places it 40 (Ant. vii, 11, 
7) or 50 stadia north-west from Jerusalem, and in Je- 
rome (Ep. 80, ad Eusioch .), which leave little doubt 
that Gibeon is to be identified with the place which 
still bears the name of El-Jib. The name Gabaon is 
indeed mentioned by writers of the time of the Cru- 
sades, as existing at this spot, and among the Arabs it 
then already bore the name of El-Jib, under which it is 
mentioned by Bohaedinn ( Vita Salad in , p. 243). Af- 
terwards it was overlooked by most travellers till the 
last century, when the attention of Pococke was again 
directed to it ( Description of the East , ii, 49). The 
traveller who pursues the northern camel-road from 
Jerusalem, turning off to the left at Tuleil el-ful (Gib- 
eah) on that branch of it which leads westward to 
Jaffa, finds himself, after crossing one or two stony 
and barren ridges, in a district of a more open charac- 
ter. The hills are rounder and more isolated than those 
through which he has been passing, and rise in well- 
defined mamelons from broad undulating valleys of 
tolerable extent and fertile soil. This is the central 
plateau of the country, the “land of Benjamin and 
these round hills are the Gibeahs, Gebas, Gibeons, and 
Ramahs, whose names occur so frequently in the rec- 
ords of this district. Retaining its ancient name al- 
most intact, El- Jib stands on the northernmost of a 
couple of these mamelons, just at the place where the 
road to the sea parts into two branches, the one by the 
lower level of the -wady Suleiman, the other by the 
heights of the Betli-horons, to Gimzo, Lvdda, and 
Joppa. The road passes at a short distance to the 
north of the base of the hill of El-Jib. The strata of 
the hills in this district lie much more horizontal 
than those further south. With the hills of Gibeon 
this is peculiarly the case, and it imparts a remarkable 
precision to their appearance, especially when viewed 
from a height such as the neighboring eminence of 
neby Samwil. The houses stand very irregularly and 
unevenly, sometimes almost above one another. They 
seem to be chiefly rooms in old massive ruins, which 
have fallen down in every direction. One large build- 
ing still remains, probably a former castle or tower of 
strength. The natural terraces are carried round the 
hill like contour lines ; they are all dotted thick with 
olives and vines, and the ancient-looking houses are 
scattered over the flattish summit of the mound. On 
the cast side of the hill is a copious spring, which is- 
sues in a cave excavated in the limestone rock, so as to 
form a large reservoir. In the trees farther down are 
the remains of a pool or tank of considerable size, 
probably, says I>r. Robinson, 120 feet by TOO, i. e. of 
rather smaller dimensions than the lower pool at He- 
bron. This is doubtless the “pool of Gibeon,” at 
which Abner and Joab met together with the troops of 


Ishbosheth and David, and where that sharp conflict 
took place which ended in the death of Asahel, and 
led, at a later period, to the treacherous murder of Ab- 
ner himself. Here or at the spring were the “ great 
■waters (or the many wuters, D^w) of Gibeon” 

(both here and in 1 Kings iii, 4, Josephus substitutes 
Hebron for Gibeon, Ant. x, 9,5; viii,2, 1), at which Jo- 
hanan, the son of Kareah, found the traitor Ishmael 
(Jer. xli, 12). Round this water also, according to the 
notice of Josephus (*7ri nvi 7 rtjyy rijg TroXtwc ovk dVw- 
9tv, Ant. v, 1, 17), the five kings of the Amorites were 
encamped when Joshua burst upon them from Gilgal. 
The “wilderness of Gibeon” (2 8am. ii, 24) — the Mid- 
bar, i. e. rather the waste pasture-grounds — must have 
been to the east, beyond the suburb of cultivated fields, 
and towards the neighboring swells, which bear the 
names of Jedireli and Bir Neballah. Such is the situ- 
ation of Gibeon, fulfilling in position every require- 
ment of the notices of the Bible, Josephus, Eusebius, 
and Jerome. Its distance from Jerusalem by the main 
road is as nearly as possible 6^ miles; but there is a 
more direct road reducing it to 5 miles (Robiuson, Res. 
ii, 137, 138; Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 315 ; Thomson, 
Land and Booh, ii, 546; Porter, Ilandb.for Syria , p. 
225). 

Scriptural Incidents . — Several of these are of such 
deep interest as to call for a detailed notice. 

(1.) The name of Gibeon is most familiar to us in 
connection with the artifice by which its inhabitants 
obtained their safety at the hands of Joshua, and with 
I the memorable battle which ultimately resulted there- 
from. (See Kitto’s Daily Bible IUust. ad loc.) This 
j is the first mention of the place in Scripture, and the 
| battle is considered “one of the most important in the 
j history of the world” by Stanley, whose graphic de- 
j scription (Jewish Church, i,2GG sq.) we condense, slight- 
ly modified and illustrated. 

The kings of Palestine, each in his little fastness, 
were roused by the tidings that the approaches to their 
territory in the Jordan valley and in the passes leading 
from it were in the hands of the enemy. Those who 
occupied the south felt that the crisis was yet more 
imminent than when they heard of the capitulation of 
Gibeon. Jebus or Jerusalem, even in those ancient 
times, was recognised as their centre. Its chief took 
the lead of the hostile confederacy. The point of at- 
tack, however, was not the invading army, but the 
traitors at home. Gibeon, the recreant city, was be- 
sieged. The continuance or the raising of the siege 
became the turning question of the war. The sum- 
mons of the Gibeonites to Joshua was as urgent as 
words can describe, and gives the key-note to the 
whole movement (Josh, x, G). Not a moment was to 
j be lost. On the former occasion of Joshua’s visit to 
Gibeon (Josh, ix, 16, 17), it had been a three-days’ jour- 
ney from Gilgal, as according to the slow pace of east- 
j ern armies and caravans it might well be. But now, 
by a forced march, “Joshua came unto them suddenly, 
i and went up from Gilgal all night.” When the sun 
rose behind him, he was already in the open ground at 
the foot of the heights of Gibeon, where the kings were 
encamped (according to Josephus, Ant.v, 1, 17) by a 
spring in the neighborhood. The towering hill, at the 
foot of which Gibeon lav, rose before them on the west. 
The besieged and the besiegers alike were taken by 
surprise (in the Samaritan version of Joshua, the war- 
cry is given, “God is mighty in battle,” ch. xx, xxi). 

As often before and after, so now “not a man could 
stand before” the awe and panic of the sudden sound 
of that terrible shout. The Canaanites fled down the 
western, pass, and “the Lord discomfited them before 
Israel, and slew them with a great slaughter at (lib- 
eon, and chased them along the way that gocth up to 
Beth-lioron.” ‘This w r as the first stage of the flight. 
It is a long, rocky ascent, sinking and rising more than 
once before the summit is gained. From the summit, 
which is crowned by the village of Upper Beth-horon, 


GIBEON 


851 


GIBEON 



Slap of the scene of Joshua’s great Battle at Gibeon and Beth-lioron. 


a wide view opens over the valley of Ajalon, which 
runs in from the plain of Sharon. 

“And it came to pass, as they fled before Israel, 
and were in the going down to Beth-lioron, that the 
Lord cast down great stones from heaven upon them 
unto Azekah.” This was the second stage of the flight. 
The fugitives had outstripped the pursuers; they had 
crossed the high ridge of Beth-lioron the Upper ; they 
were in full flight to Beth-horon the Nether. It is a 
rough, rocky road, sometimes over the upturned edges 
of the limestone strata, sometimes over sheets of 
smooth rock, sometimes over loose rectangular stones, 
sometimes over steps cut in the rock. It was as they 
fled down this slippery descent that a fearful tempest, 
“thunder, lightning, and a deluge of hail” (Josephus, 
Ant. v, 1, 17), broke over the disordered ranks; and 
“ they were more which died of the hailstones than 
they whom the children of Israel slew with the sword.” 

Then follows the poetic version of the story, taken 
from the ancient legendary “ Book of Jaslier.” On 
the summit of the pass, where is now the hamlet of the 
Upper Beth-horon, looking far down the deep descent 
of the western valleys, with the green vale of Ajalon 
stretched out in the distance, and the wide expanse of , 
the Mediterranean Sea beyond, stood, as is intimated, 
the Israelitish chief. Below him was rushing down, j 
in wild confusion, the Amoritish host. Around him 
were “all his people of war, and all his mighty men 
of valor.” Behind him were the hills which hid the 
now rescued Gibeon from his sight. But the sun stood 
high above those hills, “in the midst of heaven” (it 
was the middle of the forenoon, or at most midday), for 
the day had now far advanced since he had emerged 
from his night-march through the passes of Ai ; and 
in his front, over the western vale of Ajalon, may have 
been the faint crescent of the waning moon, visible 
above the hail-storm driving lip from the sea in the 
black distance. Was the enemy to escape in safety, 
or was the speed with which Joshua had “come quick- 
ly, and saved and helped” his defenceless allies, to be. 
rewarded, before the close of that day, by a signal vie- j 
tory? It is doubtless so standing on that lofty emi- 
nence, with outstretched hand and spear, that the hero 
appears in the ancient record: “Then might Joshua 
[be heard to] speak to Jehovah in the day of Jehovah’s 
giving [up] the Amorite before the sons of Israel, when 
he said in the eyes of Israel : 

1 Sun, in Gibeon stand still ; 

And, moon, in Ajalon’s vale 1’ 

So the sun stood still, and moon stayed until a people 
should take vengeance [upon] its enemies. [Is] not 
this written on [the] Book of the Upright ? 


‘So the sun stayed in the midst of the heavens, 

And hasted not to go [down] as a whole day ; 

And [there] was not like that day [another] before it or 
after it. 

For Jehovah’s hearkening to a man’s voice, 

For Jehovah [it was that] fought for Israel.’ 

So Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the 
camp at Gilgal” (Josh, x, 12-15). See Joshua. 

(2.) We next hear of Gibeon at the encounter be- 
tween the men of David and of Ishbosheth, under their 
respective leaders Joab and Abner (2 Sam. ii, 12-17). 
The meeting has all the air of having been premedita- 
ted by both parties, unless we suppose that Joab had 
heard of the intention of the Benjamites to revisit from 
the distant Mahanaim their native villages, and had 
seized the opportunity to try his strength with Abner. 
See Abner. Tbe place where the struggle began re- 
ceived a name from the circumstance, and seems to 
have been long afterwards known as the “field of the 
strong men.” See Helkatii-tiazzukim. 

(3.) We again meet with Gibeon in connection with 
Joab; this time as the scene of the cruel and revolting 
death of Aniasa by his hand (2 Sam. xx, 5-10). Joab 
was in pursuit of the rebellious Sheba, the son of Bich- 
ri, and his being so far out of the direct north road as 
Gibeon may be accounted for by supposing that he was 
making a search for this Benjamite among the towns 
of his tribe. The two rivals met at “the great stone 
which is in Gibeon” — some old landmark now no lon- 
ger recognisable, at least not recognised — and then 
Joab repeated the treachery by which he had murder- 
ed Abner, but with circumstances of a still more re- 
volting character. See Amasa. 

It is remarkable that the retribution for this crown- 
ing act of perfidy should have overtaken Joab close to 
the very spot on which it had been committed. For it 
I was to the tabernacle at Gibeon (1 Kings ii, 28, 29 ; 
comp. 1 Chron. xvi, 39) that Joab fled for sanctuary 
when Iiis death was pronounced b} r Solomon, and it 
was while clinging to the horns of the brazen altar 
there that he received his death-blow from Benaiah, the 
son of Jehoiada (1 Kings ii, 28, 30, 34). See Joab. 

(4.) Familiar as these events in connection with the 
history of Gibeon are to us, its reputation in Israel 
was due to a very different circumstance — the fact that 
the tabernacle of the congregation and the brazen altar 
of burnt-offering were for some time located on the 
“ high place” attached to or near the town. "NV e are 
not informed whether this “high place” had any fame 
for sanctity before the tabernacle came there ; but if 
not, it would probably have been erected elsewhere. 
We only hear of it in connection with the tabernacle ; 
nor is there any indication of its situation in regard to 



GIBEON 


852 


GIBEONITE 


the town. ^ Stanley has suggested ( Sinai and raL p. 
212) that it was the remarkable hill of iiebv Samwi*l, 
the most prominent and individual eminence in that 
part of the country, and to which the special appella- 
tion of “the great high-place” (1 Kings iii, 4; 
nb'TM’j) would perfectly apply. Certainly, if “great” 
is to be understood as referring to height or size, there 
is no other hill which can so justly claim the distinc- 
tion. lint, the word lias not always that meaning, and 
may equally imply eminence in other respects, e. g. 
superior sanctity to the numerous other high places — 
Bethel, Hamah, Mizpeb, Gibeah — which surrounded it 
on every side. The main objection to this identifica- 
tion is the distance of nebv Samwil from Gibeon — 
more than a mile — and the absence of any closer con- 
nection therewith than with any other of the neighbor- 
ing places. The most natural position for the high 
place of Gibeon is the twin mount immediately south 
of El-Jib — so close as to be all but a part of the town, 
and yet quite separate and distinct. The testimony 
of Epiphanins, by which Stanley supports his conjec- 
ture, viz. that the “Mount of Gabaon” was the high- 
est round Jerusalem (A dv. /Icereses, i, 394), should be 
received with caution, standing as it does quite alone, 
and belonging to an age which, though early, was 
marked by ignorance, and by the most improbable 
conclusions. 

To this high place, wherever situated, the “ taber- 
nacle of the congregation” — the sacred tent which had 
accompanied the children of Israel through the whole 
of their wanderings — had been transferred from its la>t 
station at Nob. The exact date of the transfer is left 
in uncertainty. It was either before or at the time 
when David brought up the ark from Kirjath-jearim to 
the new tent which he had pitched for it on Mount 
Zion, that the original tent was spread for the last time 
atGibeon. The expression in 2Chron.i, 5, “The brazen 
altar he put before the tabernacle of Jehovah,” at lirst 
sight appears to refer to David. But the text of the 
passage is disputed, and the authorities are divided be- 
tween E'J, “lie put,” and CIT, “ was there.” "Wheth- 
er king David transferred the tabernacle to Gibeon or 
not, he certainly appointed the staff of priests to offer 
the daily sacrifices there on the brazen altar of Moses, 
and to fulfil the other requirements of the law (1 Cliron. 
xvi, 40), with no less a person at their head than Zadok 
the priest (ver. 39), assisted by the famous musicians 
Heman and Jeduthun (ver. 41). 

One of the earliest acts of Solomon’s reign — it must 
have been while the remembrance of the execution of 
Joal) was still fresh — was to visit Gibeon. The cere- 
monial was truly magnificent : he went up with all the 
congregation, the great officers of the state — the cap- 
tains of hundreds and thousands, the judges, the gov- 
ernors, and the chief of the fathers — and the sacrifice 
consisted of a thousand burnt-offerings (1 Kings iii, 4). 
This glimpse of Gibeon in all the splendor of its great- 
est prosperity — the smoke of the thousand animals ris- 
ing from the venerable altar on the commanding height 
of “the great high place” — the clang of “trumpets, 
and cymbals, and musical instruments of God” (1 
Chron. xvi, 42) resounding through the valleys far 
and near — is virtually the last we have of it. In a 
few years the Temple at Jerusalem was completed, 
and then the tabernacle was once more taken down 
and removed. Again “all the men of Israel assem- 
bled themselves” to king Solomon, with the “elders 
of Israel,” and the priests and the Levites brought 
up both the tabernacle and the ark, and “all the holy 
vessels that were in the tabernacle” (1 Kings viii, 3; 
Joseph. Ant. viii, -1, 1), and placed the venerable relics 
in t heir new home, there to remain until the plunder 
of the city by Nebuchadnezzar. The introduction of 
the name of Gibeon in 1 Chron. ix, 35, which seems so 
abrupt, is probably due to t fie fact that the preceding 
verses of the chapter contain, as they appear to do, a 


list of the staff attached to the “tabernacle of the 
congregation” which was erected there; or if these 
persons should prove to be the attendants on the “ new 
tent” which David had pitched for the ark on its ar- 
rival in the city of David, the transition to the place 
where the old tent was still standing is both natural 
and easy. 

It would be very satisfactory to believe, with 
Thomson ( Land and the Book, ii, 547), that the pres- 
ent wady Suleiman, i. e. “Solomon’s valley,” which 
commences on the west side of Gibeon, and leads down 
to the Plain of Sharon, derived its name from this visit. 
But the modern names of places in Palestine often 
spring from very modern persons or circumstances, 
and, without confirmation or investigation, this cannot 
be received with certainty. — Smith, s. v. 

Gib'eonite (Heb. Giboni', ; Sept. Ta/Jctw- 
wVi/t;), the designation of the people of the Canaanitish 
city Gibeon (q. v.), and perhaps also of the three 
cities associated with Gibeon (Josh, ix, 17) — Ilivites ; 
who, on the discovery of the stratagem by which they 
had obtained the protection of the Israelites, were con- 
demned to be perpetual bondmen, hewers of wood and 
drawers of water for the congregation, and for the 
house of God and altar of Jehovah (Josh, ix, 23, 27). 
The compact, although the punishment of fraud, was 
faithfully observed on both sides (see Benzel, Syntagm. 
dissertt. iii, 122 sq.). Saul, however, appears to have 
broken this covenant, and in a fit of enthusiasm or pa- 
triotism to have killed some, and devised a general 
mftssacre of the rest (2 Sam. xxi, 1, 2, 5). This was 
expiated many years after by David, at the suggestion 
of the priestly oracle, giving np seven men of Saul’s 
descendants to the Gibeonites, who hung them or cru- 
cified them “before Jehovah” — as a kind of sacrifice 
— in Gibeah, Saul’s own town (4, G, 9). At this time, 
or, at any rate, at the time of the composition of the nar- 
rative, the Gibeonites were so identified with Israel 
that the historian is obliged to insert a note explain- 
ing their origin and their non-Israelite extraction (xxi, 
2). The actual name “Gibeonites” appears only in 
this passage of 2 Sam. — Smith, s. v. There is not the 
slightest evidence for the allegation which has been 
sometimes made against David, that he purposely con- 
trived or greedily fell in with this device, in order to 
weaken^he house of Saul and place it under a darker 
stigma. On the contrary, David’s conduct throughout 
to that house was in the highest degree generous and 
noble ; and at the very time when this fresh public 
calamity befell it, he took occasion to have the bones 
of Saul and Jonathan, along with the bones of the sev- 
en now publicly hanged, gathered together and honor- 
ably buried in the sepulchre of Kish. — Fairbairn, s. v. 
See David. From this time there is no mention of 
the Gibeonites as a distinct people; but most writers 
suppose they were included among the Nethinim, who 
were appointed for the service of the Temple (1 Chron. 
ix, 2). Those of the Canaanites who were aftei wards 
subdued and had their lives spared were probably add- 
ed to ther Gibeonites. We see in Ezra viii, 20; ii, 58; 
I Kings ix, 20, 21, that David, Solomon, and the princes 
of Judah gave many such to the Lord ; these Nethinim 
being carried into captivity with Judah and the Le- 
vites, many of them returned with Ezra, Zernbbabel, 
and Nehemiali. and continued, as before, in the service 
of the Temple, under the priests and Levites. — Calniet, 
s. v. (See De Platen, De reltgione Gibeonitarum , Lost. 
1703 ; Fecht, id. ib. 1731.) See Nethinim. 

Individual Gibeonites named are (1) Ismaiaii, one 
of the Benjamites who joined David in his difficulties 
(1 Chron. xii, 4) ; (2) Meeatiaii, one of those who as- 
sisted Neliemiah in repairing the wall of Jerusalem 
(Neh. iii, 7); (3) Uananiaii, the son of Azur, a false 
prophet from Gibeon, who opposed Jeremiah, and short- 
ly afterwards died (Jer. xxviii, 1, 10, 13, 17). — Smith, 
s. v. 


GIBSON 


853 


GIBSON 


Gib'lite (Heb. with the art. in the sing. hag-Gibli', 
Josh, xiii, 5; Sept. Tcf/iXi [v. r. PaXitiS] <Fo- 
Xiermqu, Vulg. merely conjunct; plural, hag-Giblim' , 

1 Kings v, 18; Sept. Alex, oi Fi/SXtot, other 
MSS. omit; Vulg. Giblii, A. V. “ stone-squarers”), a 
people whose land is coupled with “all Lebanon,” as 
together belonging to the territory of the Israelites on 
the northern side, in the enumeration of the portions j 
of the Promised Laud remaining to be conquered by 
Joshua (Josh, xiii, 5). The ancient versions give no 
help, but there is no reason to doubt that the allusion , 
is to the inhabitants <Jf the city Gedal (q. v.), which 
was on the sea-coast at the foot of the northern slopes 
of Lebanon, and from which the name is a regular de- 
rivative (see Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 258 b). r Ihe whole 
passage is instructive, as showing how very far the 
limits of the country designed for the Israelites ex- 
ceeded those which they actually occupied. The peo- 
ple in question, who plainly belonged to the Phoenician 
territory, are understood to have been the people of 
Byblus , a city of the Phoenicians between Tripoli and 
Berytus. The inhabitants of Gebal are mentioned in 
the cuneiform inscriptions (q. v.). The Giblites are 
again named (in the Heb.) in 1 Kings v, 18 as assist- 
ing Solomon’s builders and Hiram’s builders to pre- 
pare the trees and the stones for building the Temple. 
'That they were clever artificers is evident from this 
passage ; and in connection with the shipping and mer- 
chandise of Tyre, the prophet Ezekiel mentions “the 
ancients of Gebal” as furnishing calkers, or perhaps 
generally ship-carpenters (Ezek. xxvii, 9). The Gib- j 
lites are not mentioned in immediate connection with 
the affairs of Israel ; if they did come into direct con- | 
tact with these, it must have been for evil, and not for 
good; for Byblus was the seat of the worship of the i 
Syrian Tammuz or Adonis, a worship which certainly | 
found its way, among other corruptions, into the later 
idolatries of the Jewish people (Ezek. viii, 14), but 
whether directly from Byblus, or from other parts of 
Phoenicia, we have no means of ascertaining. — Smith, 
s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. See Phoenicia. 

Gibson, Edmund, D.D., bishop of London, was 
born at Banipton in 1GG9, and was educated at Queen’s 
College, Oxford. He early devoted himself to the 
study of the languages of North Britain and of British 
antiquities. At twenty-two he prepared an edition of 
The Saxon Chronicle, with Latin translation and In- 
dexes (Oxford, 1G92, 4to). In 1G94 he became XL A., 
and soon after was ordained, and made fellow of his 
college. In 1G95 he published an English translation 
of Camden’s Britannia (2 vols. fob). In 1G96 he was 
appointed librarian at Lambeth by Tenison, archbish- 
op of Canterbury; and in lGOTlie was appointed morn- 
ing preacher at Lambeth church. In the same year 
he published Vita Thonm Bodleii, together with Histo- 
ria Bibliotliecm Bodleianv, both prefixed to the Cata- 
logs Librarian Manuscnptorum , in Anglia ct Hibernia, 
in mmm collecti (2 vols. fob). In 1G98 he published 
Reliquice Spelnianniana % together with the life of the 
author (tol.). He was now made domestic chaplain 
to the archbishop, through whose means he obtained, 
about the same time, the lectureship of St. Martin’s-in- 
the-Fielils, and in 1700 he was presented to the rectory 
of Stistcd, in Essex, a rectory still the seat of learn- 
ing. In 1709 he was made rector of Lambeth, and 
residentiary of the cathedral of Chichester. He was 
soon after appointed master of the hospital of St. Mary, 
and in 1710 he was promoted to the archdeaconry of 
Surrey. While he was chaplain to archbishop Ten- 
isou he engaged in the controversy between the two 
houses of Convocation. See Atterbury. Gibson 
enlisted on the side of the upper house, and published 
ten pamphlets on the subject in three years, to which 
he added another in 1707. And to the interest he took 
in this controversy we may trace the origin of his great 
work, Codex Juris Ecclcsiastlci Anglicani, or the Stat- 


utes, Constitution , Canons , Rubrics, and Articles of the 
Church of ' England , etc. (1713, fol. ; reprinted at Ox- 
ford in 17G1). In 1715 he succeeded Wake as bishop 
of Lincoln, and in 1723 he was translated to the sec of 
London. He subsequently became chief adviser of 
Sir Robert Walpole in ecclesiastical affairs, and wo- 
fully disappointed his former Whig friends by his in- 
tolerant support of the Test Act, and of the severe 
measnres adopted against the Quakers. His better 
qualities appeared in his opposition to the demoraliz- 
ing masquerades of the time, by which he lost the fa- 
vor of George II. Towards the close of his life he 
made a collection of the best treatises that were writ- 
ten against Popery during the reign of James II, and 
published them with a preface in 1738 (3 vols. fob); 
recently republished under the title of A Preservative 
against Popery, etc., edited by Dr. Cumming (London, 
1848-9, 18 vols. 8vo) ; there is also a Supplement (Loud. 
1849, 8 vols. 8vo). He died at Bath in 1748. — Hook, 
Eccl. Biog. v, 314; Darling, Cyclop . Bibliographica, i, 
1250. 

Gibson, Robert, a minister of the Reformed 
Presbyterian Church, was horn at Ballymena, Ireland, 
Oct. 1, 1793. llis parents migrated to the United 
States in 1797, and his father, the Rev. William Gib- 
son, settled as pastor of the Reformed Presbyterian 
Church at Ryegate, Vt. lie received his theological 
training at the Reformed Presbyterian Theological 
Seminary, Philadelphia, and was licensed to preach in 
1818. On Sept. G, 1819, lie was ordained and installed 
as pastor of the church at Beaver Dam, where he la- 
bored with great success lor twelve years. In 1831 
he became pastor of the Second Reformed Presbyterian 
church in the city of New York, and occupied that po- 
sition till liis death. In this new and extensive field 
he labored with great diligence, and his influence grew 
rapidly. He bore a prominent part in the controversy 
which resulted in the disruption of the Church in 1833, 
and published three pamphlets vindicating the course 
of the Synod. In 183G he showed symptoms of de- 
clining health. AH efforts to arrest his disease were 
unavailing, and he died in the midst of his people, Dec- 
22, 1837. We have from him only the three pamph- 
lets above mentioned. — Sprague, Annals (Ref. Presb.), 
ix, 71. 

Gibson, Tobias, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Liberty County, S. C., Nov. 10, 1771, en- 
tered the itinerant ministry in 1792, and died at Natch- 
ez, Miss., in April, 1804. He traveled and preached 
in the most important appointments of the Carolinas 
until the year 1800, and then went to Natchez as a 
missionary. The whole Louisiana purchase was then 
almost a wilderness. After penetrating the forest for 
six hundred miles to the Cumberland River, Mr. Gib- 
son took a canoe, and alone navigated that stream to 
the Ohio, and thence down the Mississippi in a boat. 
Tic made four trips through the wilderness to the 
Cumberland while missionary at Natchez, and laid 
the foundations of Methodism in that vast and now so 
important region. His fellow-laborers in Carolina tes- 
tify that “he did for many years preach, profess, pos- 
sess, and practise Christian perfection ; and that those 
who were acquainted with him must be impressed with 
liis depth of piety;” and “that infidelity itself would 
stagger before the life of so holy, loving, and devoted 
a man of God .” — Minutes of Conferences, i, 125. 

Gibson, William, a Reformed Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born near Knoekbracken, County Down, 
Ireland, in 1753. Fie studied at Glasgow, and was 
licensed bv the Reformed Presbytery of Ireland in 
1781. In the political ferment of Ireland towards the 
end of the century he joined the United Irishmen, and 
on the failure of the rebellion he fled to America, where 
he arrived in 1797. Finding a number of his own 
people there, he formed a congregation ; and the Re- 
formed Presbytery of North America was constituted 


GICHTEL 


854 


GIDEON 


in 1798. In 1799 he became pastor at Eyegate, Vt., 1 2 
and remained there till 1817, 'when he accepted a call 
to Canonshurg, I’a. In 1830 his infirmities compelled 
him to resign his charge. His latter years were spent 
in Philadelphia, where he died, Oct. 15, 1838. — Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac, 18G2, p. 274; Sprague, Annals \ 
(Kef. Presb.), ix, 0. 

Gichtel, Johann Georg, a German mystic, was 
horn at Katisbon in 1638. Pie studied theology and 
law at the University of Strasburg, and was after- 
wards distinguished as a lawyer. He became a fol- 1 
lower of Jacob Bdhme, and prepared for publication 
the lirst edition of his works (Amsterdam, 1682). lie ! 
linally devoted himself to the propagation of his tlieo- j 
sopliic and ascetic views. Gichtel considered his own 
announcements of divine commands as superior to the 
{Scriptures in authority. He was imprisoned as a dan- 
gerous visionary, struck off the list of barristers, and 
linally exiled. He retired in 1667 to Holland, where 
he died poor in 1710. His opinions have found occa- 
sional adherents to this day at Amsterdam, Leyden, 
and even in Germany. They were called Gichtelians, 
or Brothers of the Angels (Engelsbriider), and be- 
lieved themselves equal to the inhabitants of heaven 
on account of their celibacy, peculiar mode of life, etc. 
One of the most zealous adherents of Gichtel was pro- 
fessor Alandt de Eaadt, who, however, subsequently 
fell out with him, when a merchant, bv the name of 
Ueberfekl, became intimate with Gichtel. Bands of 
adherents were found in Berlin, Halle, Magdeburg, 
Altona, where Glusing (died 1728) was at their head, 
and other places, and partly maintained themselves to 
the 19th century. Gichtel’s Letters were published by 
Gottfried Arnold (1701, 2 vols. ; 1708, 3 vols.) ; and 
finally a complete collection of his writings, under the 
style Practische Theosophic (Leyden, 1722, 6 vols.). See 
Eeinbeck, GichteVs Lebenslaif und Lrhrtn (Berl. 1732) ; 
Harless, Gichtel s Lebcn %t. Irrthiimer, in Evang. Kirch. - 
Zeit. 1831, No. 77 ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , xx, 
454 ; Herzog, Real-EncyHop). v, 145. 

Giddal'ti (Heb. id. whom / [Jehovah] 

hare made great; Sept. r£c'c'oA\«37 and VtcdtXSi, Vulg. 
Geddelthi and Gedelthi), the ninth named of the four- 
teen musical sons of Pieman, and head of the twenty- 
second course of Levitical musicians in the tabernacle 
under David (1 Chron. xxv, 4, 29). B.C. 1013. The 
office of these brothers was to sound the horn in the 
Levitical orchestra (verse 5, 7). Fiirst (who reduces 
the sons of Ileman to five') suggests (/A b. Lex. s. v.) 
that the appended “ names probably formed together 
(r-N-m-2 -nr ihave 

dealt, otd fame and victorious help ; Ihave spoken oracles 
in fulness) an old prophetic saying with which an ora- 
cle began, whose words were applied to the five [as 
soubriquets] ; the tone itself [as a name it would reg- 
ularly be Giddalti'~\ pointing to this explanation.” | 
See I ! km ax. 

Gid'del (Ileb. GiddeV , ^“1?, perhaps giant ; Sept. 
EtubjA. Yalci) A, i>/e7/A), the name of two men whose 
descendants or relatives ( 13cne-Giddel ) returned from 
the captivity with Zerubbabel ; perhaps Gibeonitcs (q. 

1. One of the Nethinim (Ezra ii, 47 ; Nell, vii, 49). 
B.C. ante 536. 

2. One of “Solomon’s servants,” i. e. perhaps of 
the Canaan itish tribes enslaved by Solomon (Ezra ii, 
56; Noli, vii, 58; compare 1 Kings ix, 21). B.C. ante 
536. See Solomon. 

Giddings, Lockwood, a Baptist minister, was 
born in Plymouth, N. II., Aug. 8, 1812, graduated at 
Waterville College in 1833, and then went to Virginia, 
where ho commenced the study of medicine. lie Mas 
about settling as a physician in Missouri when lie felt 
called to preach the Gospel. He M'as shortly after- 
wards ordained, and in 1835 became pastor of the Bap- 


tist church in Shelbvville, Ky., where his ministra- 
tions were very successful. In 1838 he M’as appointed 
president of the Baptist College of GeorgetoM-n, then 
in a most destitute condition. lie accepted the nomi- 
nation, and in less than eight months secured more 
than eighty thousand dollars towards an endoM inent. 
But the severe labor he imposed on himself under- 
mined his health, and he died Oct. 29, 1839. — Sprague, 
Annals, vi, 818. 

Gid'eoil (Hcb. Gidon , tre a-fellcr, i. e. M’ar- 

rior, comp. Isa. x, 33; Sept, and N. T. Yuttov), aMa- 
nassite, youngest son of Joash of the Abiczrites, an 
undistinguished family, who lived at Ophrah, a toM’n 
probably on the M estern side of Jordan (Judg. vi, 15). 
He M’as the fifth recorded judge of Israel, and for many 
reasons the greatest of them all, being the first of them 
whose history is circumstantially narrated (Judg. vi- 
viii). B.C. 1362-1322. 

1. When M r e first hear of him he M’as groM n up and 
had sons (Judg. vi, 11 ; viii, 20), and from the apostro- 
phe of the angel (vi, 12) -we may conclude that lie had 
already distinguished himself in M’ar against the rov- 
ing bands of nomadic robbers M’ho had oppressed Is- 
rael for seven years, and M’hose countless multitudes 
I (compared to locusts from their terrible devastations, 
vi, 5) annually destroyed all the produce of Canaan, 

I except such as could be concealed in mountain-fast- 
nesses (vi, 2). The Midianites, in conjunction vith 
the Amalekites and other nomadic tribes, invaded the 
: country every year, at the season of produce, in great 
numbers, with their flocks and herds, rioting in the 
country after the manner which the Bedouin Arabs 
practise at this day. It M'as probably during this dis- 
astrous period that the emigration of Elimclech took 
place (Euth i. 1, 2; John’s llebr. Comm. § xxi). Some 
have identified the angel M’lio appeared to Gideon 
( (pctvrafTf.nt vscivigkov goptpjf Josephus, Ant. v, 6) with 
the prophet mentioned in vi, 8, which will remind the 
reader of the legends about Mala chi in Origcn and 
other commentators. Paulus ( Ereg . Conserv. ii, 190 
sq.) endeavors to give the narrative a subjective col- 
oring, but rationalism is of little value in accounts like 
this. When the angel appeared, Gideon M'as thresh- 
ing wheat with a flail (Sept. inoirTt) in the M'inc-press, 
to conceal it from the predatory tyrants. Such Mas 
the position and such the employment in m Inch lie M as 
found by the angel of the Lord, mIio appeared to him 
and said, “ Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of 
valor.” It M'as a startling address, and one that 
seemed rather like a latter irony, when viewed in con- 
nection M’ith the existing state of affairs, than the 
words of soberness and truth. Therefore Gideon re- 
plied, “Oh! my Lord, if Jehovah be M’ith us, M’hy 
then is all this befallen us? and M’hcre be all the mir- 
acles which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Je- 
hovah bring us up from Egypt? But now Jehovah 
hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hands of 
the Midianites.” The desponding tone of the reply 
M’as not unnatural in the circumstances, and what fol- 
lowed M’as designed to reassure his mind, and brace 
him M’ith energy and fortitude for the occasion. Je- 
hovah, it is said — for, instead of the angel of Jehovah, 
as formerly, it is now Jehovah himself — “Jehovah 
looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and 
thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midian- 
ites; have not 1 sent thee?” Gideon still expressed 
his fear of the result, mentioning his own comparative 
insignificance, and that of his father’s family, but M as 
again met M’ith a Mord of encouragement, “Surely I 
will he with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites 
as one man.” Gideon’s heart now began to take 
courage ; hut to make him sure that it really M'as a 
divine messenger lie was dealing M’ith, and that the 
commission he had received ’was from the Lord, he re- 
quested a sign from heaven ; and it was given him in 
connection M’ith an offering, M’hicli he M’as alloM’ed to 


GIDEON 


855 


GIDEON 


themselves, he encamped on one of the neighboring 
slopes, from which he overlooked the plains covered 
presently rose out of the rock and consumed them, by the tents of Midian. Mount Gilead, indeed, 


present, of a kid and some unleavened cakes. These 
the angel touched with the tip of his staff, and a fire 


Immediately the angel himself disappeared, though named in the movement of Gideon against Midian, but 
not till he had by a word of peaee quieted the mind of probably only as the first place of rendezvous for his 
Gideon, which had become agitated by the thought of j army (Judg. vii, 3). For the sake of security, lie might 
having seen the faee of the Lord (comp. Exod. xx, 19 ; 

Judg. xiii, 22). 

The family of Joash had fallen into the prevalent 
idolatry of the times, which was characterized by 
backsliding from the true worship of Jehovah; and it 
was the first, task of Gideon as a reformer to rebuke 
this irreligion, and his first sphere was at home. In 
a dream the same night he was ordered to throw down 
the altar of Baal and cut down the Asherah (A. Vers. 

“ grove”) upon it [see Asiieraii], which his father 
had caused, or at least suffered, to be erected on the 
family grounds ; and with the wood of this he was to 
offer in sacrifice his father’s “second bullock of seven 
years old,” an expression in which some see an allu- 
sion to the seven years of servitude (vi, 2G, 1). Per- 
haps that particular bullock is specified because it had 
been reserved by his father to sacrifice to Baal (Ro- 
senmiiller, Schol. ad loc.), for Joash seems to have 
been a priest of that worship. Bertheau can hardly 
be right in supposing that Gideon was to offer tiro 
bullocks {Richt. p. 115). At any rate, the minute touch 
is valuable as an indication of truth in the story (see 
Ewald, Gesch. ii, 498, and note). Gideon, assisted by 
ten faithful servants, obeyed the vision. He deemed 
it prudent, however, to do this under eover of the 


be obliged to assemble the people on the mountainous 
lands to the east of Jordan. Stanley {Sinai and Pal- 
estine, p. 342), after Le Clere, without any authority 
from MSS., would substitute Gilboa for Gilead in the 
passage referred to. This is otherwise objectionable, 
as one does not see how thousands from Asher, Naph- 
tali, about and beyond Esdraelon, could have been 
able to meet on Gilboa, with the Midianitish host lying 
between. Ewald is perhaps right in regarding the 
name as a sort of war-cry and general designation of 
the Manassites. (See, too, Gesenius, Thes. p. 804, n.) 

The inquietude connected with great enterprises is 
more sensibly felt some days before than at the mo- 
ment of action ; and hence the two miraculous signs 
which, on the two nights preceding the march, were 
required and given as tokens of victory. The first 
night a fleece was laid out in the middle of an open 
threshing-floor, and in the morning it was quite wet, 
while the soil was dry all around. The next night 
the wonder was reversed, the soil being wet and the 
fleece perfectly dry. Strengthened by this double 
sign from God (to which Ewald gives a strange figu- 
rative meaning, Gesch. ii, 500), Gideon advanced to 
the brook Harod, in the valley of Jezreel. See Ha- 
uod. He was here at the head of 32,000 men; but, 


darkness. The same night, apparently, he built on lest so large a host should assume the glory of the 
the spot desecrated by the idolatrous shrine the altar ! coming deliverance, which of right belonged to God 
Jehovah-shalom (q. v.), which existed when the book only, two operations, remarkable both in motive and 
of Judges was written (vi, 24). As soon as the act procedure, reduced this large host to a mere handful 
was discovered, and the perpetrator suspected and of men. hirst, by divine direction, the usual proela- 
identified, which was immediately on the following motion (Dent, xx, 8; eomp. 1 Macc. iii, 5G) was made 
morning, he ran the risk of being stoned ; but Joash that all the faint-hearted might withdraw ; and no 
appeased the popular indignation by using the com- ■ fewer than 22,000 availed themselves of the indul- 
mon argument that Baal was capable of defending his I gence. The remaining 10,000 were still declared too 
own majesty (compare 1 Kings xviii, 27). This cir- numerous : they were therefore all taken down to the 
eumstanee gave to Gideon the surname of Jerubbaal brook, when only those who lapped the water from 

(wa-p, ‘-Let Baal plead,” vi, 32; Sept. 'Upo/MaX), ‘ heir , ,1:lnds ’ '"f" in has | e - "' ere . ruSei ; V ? d 

v ~ " •• •. . 1 . . . . r . - for the enterprise, w hile all those who lay down Ieis- 


a standing instance of national irony, expressive of 
Baal’s impotence. Winer thinks that this irony was 
increased by the fact that was a surname of 

the Phoenician Hercules (eomp. Movers, Phuniz. i, 434). 
AVe have similar eases of contempt in the names Sy- 
char, Baal-zebul, ete. (Lightfoot, Ilor. F/eb. ad Matt. 
xii, 24). In eousequenee of this name, some have 
identified Gideon with a certain priest, Jeronibalus 
('lspo/w/3aXo£), mentioned in Eusebius {Prcep. Evang. 
i, 10) as having given much accurate information to 
Sanchoniatho the Berytian (Boehart, Phaleg , p. 77G ; 
Iluetius, Dem. Evang. p. 84, ete.\ but this opinion can- 
not be maintained (Ewald, Gesch. ii, 494). AVe also 
find the name in the form Jtrubbesheth (2 Sam. xi, 21); 
probably indicative of contempt for the heathen deity 
(comp. Eshbaal, 1 Chron. viii, 33, with lshbosheth, 2 
Sam. ii sq.). The mind of Joash, at all events, was 
confirmed by this bold act of his son, and he seems re- 
solved to leave the solution of the controversy to di- 
vine Providence. 

2. Gideon soon found oeeasion to act upon his high 
commission.* The allied invaders were eneamped in the 
great plain of Jezreel or Esdraelon, when, “clothed” 
I>y the Spirit of God (Judg. vi, 34 ; eomp. 1 Chron. xii, 
18 ; Luke xxiv, 49), he blew a trumpet, and thus gath- 
ered round him a daily increasing host, the summons 
to arms which it implied having been transmitted 
through the northern tribes by special messengers. 


enterprise, 

urely to drink were excluded. The former numbered 
no more than 300, and these were the appointed van- 
quishers of the huge host which covered the great 
plain. It was but a slight cireumstanee which mark- 
ed the difference between them and the others, but 
still it indicated a specific quality : they were the per- 
sons that took the more expeditious method of quench- 
ing their thirst, and thereby gave proof of a nimble- 
ness and alacrity which bespoke a fitness for executing 
quick movements in attacking or pursuing an enemy. 
This affords a perfectly sufficient and natural explana- 
tion, and there is no need for resorting, as many do, 
to peculiar usages in the East, and no one who knows 
anything of the manners of people in rural and high- 
land districts can need to be told how r common it is tor 
them, when wishing to get a hasty refreshment at a 
running stream, to lift the w'ater to their mouths in the 
palm of their hand, instead of leisurely bending down, 
or laying themselves along to get a fuller draught. 
Josephus, however, explains these men to have been 
the most cowardly in the army {Ant. v, G, 3). 

Finally, being encouraged by words fortuitously 
overheard (what the later Jews "termed the Bath- hoi) 
(compare 1 Sam. xiv, 9, 10; Lightfoot, Ilor. Ilebr. ad 
Matt, iii, 14), in the relation of a significant dream, 
Gideon framed his plans, which were admirably adapt- 
ed to strike a panic into the huge and undisciplined 
nomad host (Judg. viii, 15-18). We know from his- 


Being joined by k *Zebulun, Naphtali, and even the re- tory that large and irregular Oriental armies are cs- 
luetant Asher” (which tribes were chiefly endangered pecially liable to sudden outbursts of uncontrollable 
by the Midianites), and possibly also by some of the terror; and when the stillness and darkness of the 
original inhabitants, w ho would suffer from these pred- ! night were suddenly disturbed in three different direc- 
atory “sons of the East” no less than the Israelites | tions by the flash of torches and by the reverberating 


GIDEON 


856 


GIER-EAGLE 


echoes which the trumpets and the shouting woke 1 
among the hills, we cannot be astonished at the com- 
plete rout into which the enemy were thrown. It 
must be remembered, too, that the. sound of 300 trum- 
pets would make them suppose that a corresponding 
number of companies were attacking them. It is curi- 
ous to find “ lamps and pitchers” in use for a similar 
purpose at this very day in the streets of Cairo. The 
Zabit or . I glia of the police carries with him at night 
*• a torch which burns soon after it is lighted, without 
a flame, excepting when it is waved through the air, 
when it suddenly blazes forth : it therefore answers the 
same purpose as our dark lantern. The burning end is 
sometimes concealed in a small pot or jar, or covered 
with something else, -when not required to give light” 
(Lane's J fod. Eg. i, cli. iv). For specimens of similar 
stratagems, see Livy, xxii,lG; Polyamus, Strateg. ii, 
37; Frontinus, ii, 4; Sallust, Jug. 90; Niebuhr, Desc. 
de V Arable, p. 304; Journal .4s. 1841, ii, 51G. The 
custom of dividing an army into three seems to have 
been common (1 Sam. xi, 11; Gen. xiv, 15), and Gid- 
eon's war-cry is not unlike that adopted by Cyrus 
(Xenoph. Cyr. iii, 28). He adds his ow n name to the 
war-cry, as suited both to inspire confidence in his fol- 
lowers and strike terror in the enemy. His stratagem 
was eminently successful, and the Midianites, break- 
ing into their w ild peculiar cries, fled headlong down 
the descent to the Jordan,” to the “ house of the Aca- 
cia” (Beth-shitta), and the “ meadow of the dance” 
(Ahel-meholah), but were intercepted by the Ephraim- 
ites (to whom notice had been sent, Jtulg. vii, 24) at 
the fords of Beth-barah, where, after a second fight, 
the princes of Oreb and Zeeb (“ the Haven” and “ the 
Wolf") were detected and slain — the former at a rock, 
and the latter concealed in a wine-press, to which their 
names were afterwards given. The Ephrai mites took 
their heads over to Gideon, which amounted to an ac- 
knowledgment of his leadership; but still the ahvavs 
haughty and jealous Ephraim ites were greatl)” annoy- 
ed that they had not in the first instance been sum- 
moned to the field; and serious consequences might 
have followed but for the tact of Gideon in speaking 
in a lowly spirit of his own doings in comparison with 
theirs. Gideon’s “soft answer,” which pacified the 
Ephrai mite warriors, became a proverb (Jndg. viii, 1- 
3). Meanwhile the “higher sheiks, Zebah and Zal- 
munna, had already escaped,” and Gideon resolved to 
pursue them into eastern Manasseh, and hurst upon 
them among the tents of their Bedouin countrymen. 
On that side the river, however, his victory was not 
believed or understood, and the people still trembled 
at the very name of the Midianites. Hence he could 
obtain no succor from the places which he passed, and 
tow n after town refused to supply even victuals to his 
fatigued and hungry, but still stout-hearted troop. He 
denounced vengeance upon them, but postponed its 
execution until his return. Continuing bis pursuit of 
the Midianites southward, he learned that they had 
encamped with the remnant of their army in fancied 
security at Karkor, just without the limits of Pales- 
tine ; he therefore resolved to surprise them by a rapid 
detour through the edge of the nomadic region of the 
Hauran, a measure which he accomplished so success- 
fully that, falling suddenly upon them from the east 
by night, he utterly routed them, and by sunrise was 
on his way to the Jordan. In this his third victory lie 
avenged on the Midianitish emirs the massacre of his 
kingly brethren whom they had slain at Tabor. In 
those days captives of distinction taken in war were 
almost invariably slain. Zehali and Zalmunna had 
made up their minds to this fate; ami yet it was Gid- 
eon's humane intention to spare them till he learned 
that they had put to death his own brothers under the 
same circumstances ; upon which, as the avenger of 
their blood, lie slew the captives with hi§ own hand. 
In these three battles only 15,000 out of 120,000 Mid- 
ianites escaped alive. It is indeed stated in Judg. 


viii, 10, that 120,000 Midianites had alread x fallen ; but 
here, as elsewhere, it may merely be intended that 
such was the original number of the routed host. Dur- 
ing his triumphal return Gideon took signal and ap- 
propriate vengeance on the coward and apostate towns 
of Succoth and Peniel. The memory of this splendid 
deliverance took deep root in the national traditions (1 
Sam. xii, 11; Psa. lxxxiii, 11 ; Isa. ix, 4; x,2G; Heb. 
xi, 32). 

3. After this there was a peace of 40 years, and we 
see Gideon in peaceful possession of his well-earned 
honors, and surrounded by the dignity of a numerous 
household (viii, 29-31). It is not improbable that, like 
Saul, he had owed a part of his popularity to his 
princely appearance (Judg. viii, 18). In this stage of 
iiis life occur alike his most noble and his most ques- 
tionable acts. Gideon magnanimously rejected, on 
theocratic principles, the proffer of hereditary royalty 
; which the rulers in the warmth of their gratitude made 
him. He would only accept the golden ear-rings (q. 
v.) which the victors had taken from the ears of their 
slaughtered foes, and with these he made an ephod, 

! and put it in his city Ophrah (Judg. viii, 22-27). But 
whether Gideon intended it as a commemorative tro- 
phy, or had a Levitical priest in his house, as Micah 
on Mount Ephraim, and the Danites at Lai>h, it is dif- 
ficult to determine (Judg. xvii, 5-13; xviii, 15-31). 
The probability is that the worship rendered there was 
in honor of Jehovah. It became, however, a snare to 
the Hebrews in the vicinity, who thus, having an ephod 
and worship in their own country, would nut so read- 
ily go over to the tabernacle at Shiloh, and conse- 
quently fell into idolatry by worshipping the gods of 
the Phoenicians (Judg. viii. S3). Gesenius and others 
( Thes . p. 335; Bertlicau, p. 133 sq.) follow” the Peshito 
iu making* the word ephod here mean an idol, chiefly 
on account of the vast amount of gold (1700 shekels) 
and other rich material appropriated to it. But it is 
simpler to understand it as a significant symbol of an 
unauthorized worship. (See Crit. Sacr. Thes. i, 425.) 
— Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. See 
Ephod. 

The evil consequences of this false step in religion 
were realized in the miserable sequel of Gideon’s fam- 
ily. After his death his numerous sons were destroy- 
ed by Abimelech, their brother, who afterwards reign- 
ed at Shecheni (Judg. viii, 35; ix, 5). (See Evans, 
Script. Biog. ii, 55; Kitto, Daily Bible Must, ad loc. ; 
Stanley, Jewish Church, i, 374 ; Duncan, Gideon , son of 
Joash , Lond. 18G0). See Abimelech. 

GideoTii (Ileb. GidonT, or another 

form of Gideon”; Sept. Pnccwri"), the father of Abi- 
dan, which latter was a prominent man of the tribe of 
Beniamin at the Exode (Numb, i, 11; ii, 22; vii, GO, 
G5 ; x, 24). B.C. 1G57. 

Gidgad. See Hor-Hagigdad. 

Gi'dom (Heb. Gidomj a felling ; Sept. IT- 

lav v. r. Ya\acic), a place cast of Gibeab, towards the 
wilderness (of Bethel), where the routed Benjamites 
turned to escape to the rock Bimmon (Jndg. xx, 45); 
hence probably in the plain lying north-east of Micli- 
mash, and perhaps so called from being a clearing in 
the woods that anciently covered this tract (2 Kings 
ii, 24 ; 1 Sam. xiv, 25). See Menukah. . 

Gier-eagle [i. e. vulture-eagle] (CH^, racham'. 
Lev. xi,18, and [with *1 paragogie] racha'mah, 

Dent. xiv. 17, prob. so called from its tenderness to its 
young; Sept. urKvog and 7 ron(tiv<noi\X u 1 g. porphyrio), 
probably a smaller species of vulture, the Yultur perc- 
nopUrus of Siam (Bochart, Illeroz. iii, 5G). It is about 
the size of a raven, has an almost triangular bald and 
w'rinkled head, a -strong pointed beak, black at. the tip, 
large eyes and ears, the latter entirely on the outside, 
and long feet. The male is white, with black wings; 

; the female has a brow’ll body. It lives entirely upon 


GIER-EAGLE 


857 


GIESELER 


carrion. It is called in Arabic zoology rcicham, the ex- 
act equivalent of the Heb. name (Frey tag’s Selecta ex 
Ilist. Halelei , Paris, 1819, p. 87), and is found in Arabia 
and Syria (Burckhardt, ii, G81, 8G4 ; Russel’s Aleppo , ii, 
195), and likewise in Egypt, the streets of Cairo being 
infested with this disgusting but useful bird (Hassel- 
quist, Trav. p. 195). See Eagle. As to the identity 



Egyptian Vulture (Percnojitenis Seox>lirvn). 


of the bird in question, Gesner had alread} r figured (De 
Aquila quem Perenopterum volant, p. 199) the Barbary 
variety, and poiuted out the rcicham of Scripture as the 
identical species ; but Bruce first clearly established 
the fact of its agreement with the Egyptian variety, 
popularly called “Pharaoh’s chicken.” The ruckct- 
ma of the former writer is apparently the Ak-Bobha 
(“ white father”) of the Turks, and forms one of a 
small group of vulturida?, sub-generically distinguish- 
ed by the name of Perenoptcrus and Neophron, differ- 
ing from the other vultures in the bill being longer, 
straight, more attenuated, and then un ciliated, and in 
the back of the head and neck being furnished with 
longish, narrow, sub-erectile feathers, hut, like true vul- 
tures, having the pouch on the breast exposed, and the 
sides of the head and throat bare and livid. The great 
wing-coverts arc partly, and the quill-feathers entire- 
ly of a black and blackish ash-color; those of the 
head, nape, smaller wing-coverts, body, and tail, in gen- 
eral white, with tinges of buff and rufous ; the legs are 
flesh-color, and rather long; and the toes are armed 
with sharp claws. The females are brownish. In 
size the species is little bulkier than a raven, but it 
stands high on the legs. Always soiled with blood 
and garbage, offensive to the eye and nose, it yet is 
protected in Egypt both by law and public opinion, for 
the sen-vices it renders in clearing the soil of dead car- 
casses putrefying in the sun, and the cultivated fields 
of innumerable rats, mice, and other vermin. Pious 
Moslems at Cairo and other places bestow a daily por- 
tion of food upon them, and upon their associates the 
kites, who are seen hovering conjointly in great num- 
bers about the city. The racham extends to Pales- 
tine in the summer season, but becomes scarce towards 
the north, where it is not specially protected ; and it 
accompanies caravans, feasting on their leavings and 
on dead camels, etc. Mr. Tristram says it breeds in 
great numbers in the valley of the Kedron {[his, i, 2.3). 
Naturalists have referred this vulture to the m { jkvott- 
Tfpng or opH7rt\apyog of Aristotle {Hist. An. ix, 22, 2, 
ed. Schneid.). The species indicated in the Scriptures 
is now generally admitted to be the white carrion 
vulture of Egypt, Pcrcnopterus Neophron sEr/yptiacus, 
which differs but slightly from the above description. 
With respect to the original imposition of the name 
Racham, as connected with any unusual affection for 
its young, there is no modern ornithologist who as- 
signs such a quality fo perenoptcri more than to other 
birds, although it is likely that as the pelican empties 
its bag of fish, so this bird may void the crop to feed 


her brood. For the Arabian fables of the bird racham , 
see Boehart, Jlieroz. iii, 5G. The Pcrcnopterus is some- 
what singularly classed, both in Lev. and Deut., along 
with aquatic birds; and it may be questioned whether 
any animal will eat it, since, in die parallel case of Vul- 
tur aura, the turkey-buzzard or carrion-crow of Amer- 
ica, and even the ants, have been found abstaining from 
its carcass, and leaving it to dry up in the sun, though 
swarming around and greedy of every other animal 
substance. — Kitto, s. v. See Vulture. The Rev. G. 
E. Post, M.D., of Tripoli, Syria, suggests (Am. ed. of 
Smith’s Diet, of the Bible, s. v.) that the racham of 
Moses may rather be a kind of pelican ( Pelecana o«o- 
cratalus'), found in great numbers in Egypt and about 
lake Ilulek, and which he says is likewise called by 
the Arabs racham ; but this needs confirmation. See 
Pelican. 

Gieseler, Joiiann Karl Ludwig, one of the 
greatest of modern Church historians, was born at Pc- 
tershagen, near Mindcn, March 3, 1793. Ilis father 
and grandfather, from both of whom he received in- 
struction in childhood, were Lutheran ministers, some- 
what of the Pietistic school. In 1803 lie went to study 
at the Latin school of the Orphan House at Halle, 
and was afterwards made one of the masters. In 1813 
he entered the “liberating” army as a volunteer; at 
the peace in 1815 he returned to his mastership ; in 
1817 lie became co-rector of the gymnasium at Min- 
den ; in 1818 rector of that in Cleves; and in 1819 
professor ordinarius of theology in the newly-founded 
University of Bonn. For this rapid success he was 
indebted to his Historisch-kritischer Versuch vber die 
Entstehung und die fruhesten Schick sale der schrif lichen, 
Erangelien (Historico-ciitical Essay on the Origin and 
earliest History of the written Gospels). In 1824 he 
began the publication of his Lchrbuch chr Kirchevge - 
schichte (Text-book of Church History), a further ac- 
count of which is given below; and his studies were 
thenceforward almost wholly devoted to this science. 
In 1831 he accepted a call to the University of Gottin- 
gen, where he spent the remainder of his life. The 
university repeatedly conferred on him the dignity of 
pro-rector, and lie was almost uninterruptedly a mem- 
ber of one or more of the academical hoards. He was 
devoted to the interests of the Gottingen Orphan 
House, of which he was curator, and which he visited 
almost daily. He also gave much time and labor to 
a masonic lodge of which he was a member. In these 
various offices his high administrative talent found full 
play. He died July 8, 1851. His Church History is 
the chief work on which his reputation rests. The 
4th ed. of vol. i appeared in 1814 and 1845 ; the 4th ed. 
of vol. ii, carrying. the history down to A.D. 1409, ap- 
peared in 184G-49; vol. iii, reaching to 1G48, appeared 
in two parts in 1840 and 1853. The ivtli vol. (1G48 — 
1814), the vth (1814 to the present time), and the 
vith, containing Dogmnigeschichte (History of Doc- 
trines), were issued posthumously, 1855-1857. The 
history, as a whole, is, beyond question, the most 
learned, faithful, and impartial compendium of Church 
History that has ever appeared. Its most marked 
features are the judicious arrangement of the periods 
of history; the close, compact narrative in the text; 
and, most of all, the abundant sowres of information 
given in the notes. In this last particular no other 
work resembles it; it does not merely give references, 
hut on all difficult or controverted points the quotations 
hearing on the subject are given at length, thus ena- 
bling the reader who has not at command the treasures 
of a vast library, to consult, in no slight degree, the 
original sources for himself. It is true, however, that 
Gieseler moves through the field of Church History 
“with critical acumen and cold intellect” (Schaff), 
and not, like Neaiulcr, in the spirit of faith and devo- 
tion. The rationalism of the age in whicli he was ed- 
ucated leaves its traces, if not in his pages, at least 
between the lines. But his biographer, Iledepenning, 


GIFFEX 


858 


GIFT 


denies that he ever was a Rationalist in the ordinary | 
sense of the term, and affirms that from the beginning 
to the end of his career he held fast the fundamental 
Christian doctrine of justili cation by faith alone. A 
translation of the first three volumes of the Church 
History , by Cunningham (Philadel. 1836, 3 vols. Svo), 
was made from the earlier editions, and has been su- 
perseded by a new one from the fourth edition by Da- 
vidson (Edinb. 1848-56), of which live volumes have 
appeared. A better edition still is the American one, 
edited by l)r. H. 11. Smith, of which four volumes have 
appeared (X. Y., Harper and Brothers, 8vo). Of his 
other works, we mention those on the disturbances in 
the Dutch Reformed Church between 1833 and 1839 
( Unruhen in tier nied.-ref. Kirche , etc., I Iamb. 1840) ; 
on the Lehnin (q. v.) prophecy ( Ueber d. Lehninsche 
Weissagnng, Getting. 1840: and Die Lehninsche IFris- 
sagung als ein Gedicht des Abts von Iluyshriich uachge- 
wiesen, Elherleld, 1849) ; on the difficulty between the 
archbishop of Cologne and the Prussian government 
( Ueber die kbln. Angelegenheit , Leipz. 1838). lie was 
also one of the assistant editors of the Studien mid 
Kritiken , one of the best theological journals of Ger- 
many. — Redepenning, in vol. v of the Church History , 
translated in the Journal of Sacred Literature , Jan. 
1856 ; Herzog, Real-Kncyklop. v, 152 sq. 

Giffen, David Flud van, v r as born at Sneek. 
lie belonged to an honorable family. Following the 
bent of his own mind, though in opposition to the 
wishes of his relatives, he devoted himself to the study 
of theology, which he pursued at the University of 
Hardenvyk. In 1674 lie became pastor of the Re- 
formed church at YVvkell. He fully embraced the 
views of Cocceius. The sentiments which he held he 
boldly proclaimed. He did not, however, blend the 
Cartesian philosophy with his Cocceian sentiments, 
but gave a practical direction and tendency to his in- 
terpretations of the Scriptures, and oven to those of 
the prophecies, to whose elucidation he devoted special 
attention. To him, and his followers and successors 
of the same school, was applied the epithet serious , in 
distinction from those who were denominated Leyden 
Cocceians. II is Cocceianism excited the prejudice 
and opposition of many to his preaching during the 
early part of his ministry, and involved him in un- 
pleasant ecclesiastical proceedings. Finally, all fur- 
ther ecclesiastical and civil proceedings against him 
were prohibited by the States of Friesland, to which 
he had appealed. He died in 1701. An edition of his 
works was given to the public by professor A. A'oget in 
1735, under the title Versamelbig van aVe de I Vercken, 
nagehitcn en vitgegenen van den hoogge 1 eerden en god- 
vruchtigen heer David Flud van Giffen (Groningen, 1735). 
Sec Glasius, Godgeleerd Xederland , i D., biz. 522 en 
verv. ; II. Bonman, Geschiedenis der Gedersche Ifooge- 
school , ii D., biz. 45 (Utrecht, 1844, 1847); A. Ypeij en 
J. Dermout, Geschiedenis tier Xederlandsche Hcrvormde 
Kerk , ii D., biz. 51G en verv. (J. R.AV.) 

Gift, the rendering of seven Ileb. and four Greek 
terms (with their variations from the same root) in the 
A. A r ., besides being the import of others differently 
rendered. Several of these have a distinct and spe- 
cial meaning, indicative of the relation of giver and 
receiver, or of the motive and object of the presenta- 
tion. They are as follows : 

1. Properly and simply mattan ', a gratuity 

(Prov. xix, 6), to secure favor (Prov. xviii, 16; xxi, 
14), in religious thankfulness (Numb, xviii, 11), or in 
dowry (Gen. iv, 12). From the same root (“US, na- 
ihan , to bestotv, in the widest sense) are also 
mattannli , a present , e. g. a divine bestowal (Psa. 
1 xviii, lx A, in charity (Esth. ix, 22), in religious conse- 
cration (Exod. xxviii,3S; Lev. xxiii, 38 Numb, xviii, 
0, 7, 29; Deut. xvi, 17 ; Ezck. xx, 26, 31, 39), in in- 
heritance (Gen. xxv, G; 2 Chron. xxi, 3; Ezek. xlvi, 


16, 17), or as a bribe (Prov. xv, 27 ; Eecles. vi, 7) ; with 
its corresponding Chald. HDn?2, mattenah ' , e. g. a royal 
bounty (Dan. ii, 6, 48; v, 17); and the synonymous 
rr*2, niattath' , e. g. a reward (as rendered in 1 Kings 
xiii, 7) or fee (Prov. xxv, 14), or simple conferment 
(Eccles. iii,13; v, 19) or contribution (Ezek. xlvi, 5, 
11). From the same root likewise the Xethinim (sc. 
given , i. e. consecrated, Numb, viii, 19). 

2. From the root N'l’D, nasa to raise , in the “ Piel” 

sense of aiding , sc. by a gift, come maseth' , pe- 

cuniary assistance (Esth. ii, 18; elsewhere in various 
altered significations, and with different renderings) ; 
and nisseth, a present in token of respect (2 Sam. 

xix, 42). Perhaps the inherent idea of these terms, 
however, is rather that of oblation to a superior, i. e. 
honorary gift ; lienee the former is also used of a dish 
of honor sent to special guests (“mess,” xliii, 34; 2 
Sam. xi, 8), and of a tax or fixed contribution towards 
the sanctuary (“collection,” 2 Chron. xxiv, 6, 9), or 
voluntary first-fruits offered (“ oblation,” Ezek. xx, 
40): like the cognate S\'£*2, massa' (“tribute,” 2 

i Chron. xvii, 11). 

3. More distinctly in the sense of a votive offeriug is 

winch ah ', an oblation or propitiatory gift (2 
Sam. viii, 2, G; 1 Chron. xviii, 2, 6; 2 Chron. xxvi, 8 ; 
xxxii,23; Psa.xlv, 12; “present,” Gen. xxxii, 13, 18, 
20, 21 ; xxxiii, 10; xliii, 11, 15, 25, 26; Judg. iii, 15, 
17, 18 ; vi, 18 ; 1 Sam. x, 27 ; 1 Kings iv, 21 ; 2 Kings 
viii, 8, 9 ; 2 Chron. ix, 24 ; xvii, 5, 11 ; Psa. lxxii, 10 ; 
in several of which passages the word has the acees- 
; sory idea of tnbute ; elsewhere usually rendered “of- 
fering”). Kindred in meaning with the last, but from 
an entirely different root (“Ur, shur , to travel about 
with a commodity offered in sale), is teshurah ' , 

a conciliatory “present,” e. g. to a seer — fee (1 Sam. 
’ ix, 7). Different still is iT2*rFI, terumah' (from “^"1, 
rum, to be high), an oblation (Prov. xxix, 4), especial- 
ly a peace-offering (as usually rendered). The word 

blessing , is sometimes used of a piresent (Gen. 
xxxiii, 11; 1 Sam. xxv, 27; 2 Kings v, 15), munifi- 
cence (Prov. xi, 25), or benefaction (Gen. xlix, 25 ; Isa. 
xix, 24). 

4. Mercenary in character are the following: 

sho'chad , a bribe, especially given to a judge to obtain 
a favorable verdict (Exod. xxiii, 8; Deut. xvi, 19: 2 
Chron. xix, 7; Prov. vi, 35; xvii, 8, 23; Isa. i, 23; 
Ezek. xxii, 12; elsewdiere rendered “bribe,” “ re- 
ward,” “present”); eshkar (from to 

hire), price, i. e. tribute (Psa. lxxii, 10; “present,” 
Ezek. xxvii, 15). So also shilluchini (liter- 

ally sendings away), dotal “ presents” (1 Kings ix, 16) 
[see Downy] ; but !“H2, ne'deh (lit. liberality ), signi- 
fies the prodigal wages of a harlot (Ezek. xvi, 35). 

5. In Greek the usual terms are some derivative 
from cicwjtt , to give , namely i)6j.ia, a gift, simply, i. e. 
the thing given (Matt, vii, 11 ; Luke xi, 13; Ejih. iv, 
8 ; Phil, i v, 17), cbmc, the act of giving (James i, 17); 
ciboov, a confrment in token of amity (Matt, ii, 11 ; 
Eph. ii, 8; Rev. xi, 10). or sacrificial (Alatt. v, 23, 24 ; 
viii. 4; xxiii, 18, 19; Heb. v, 1; viii, 3, 4 ; ix, 9 ; xi, 
4), or merely eleemosynary (Luke xxi, 1) or in conse- 
cration (Alatt. xv, 5; Alark vii, 11) [^ee Conn an] ; 
whereas e toped, a gratuity (John iv, 10; Acts ii, 38; 
viii, 20; x, 45; xi, 17 ; Rom. v, 15, 17 ; 2 Cor. ix, 15; 
Eph. iii, 7 ; iv, 7; Heb. vi, 4), and ttopijfia, endowment 
(Rom. v, 16; James i, 17), refer to spiritual bestow- 
ments, i. e. grace. These significations are distribu- 
ted in th’dSfjga, a votive offering (Luke xxi, 5, as be- 
ing hung up), and \dptq (2 Cor. viii, 4 ; “ liberality,” 
1 Cor. xvi, 3; “benefit,” 2 Cor. i, 15), grace (as else- 
where usually rendered), and its cognate \dpiGga, an 

i impart ation winch is spoken of spiritual and unmerited 


GIFT 


859 


GIFTS, SPIRITUAL 


endowments (Rom. v, 15, 16 ; vi, 23), especially the 
miraculous or special powers granted to the early 
Christians (Rom. i, 11 ; xii, 6; 1 Cor. i, 7 ; vii, 7 ; xii, 
4, 9, 28, 30, 31 ; 2 Cor. i, 11 ; 1 Tim. is-, 11 ; 2 Tim. i, 
6 ; 1 Pet. iv, 10) ; while fifpiapog (a dividing, as in Heb. 
iv, 12), points out the distribution of these among be- 
lievers (Heb. ii, 1). Henderson has admirably ana- 
lyzed the terms used in the above passage (1 Cor. xii, 
4-6) for these various “operations” in his work on Di- 
vine Inspiration (Loud. 1847), lect. iv. See Spiritual 
Gifts. 

“The giving and receiving of presents has in all 
ages been not only a more frequent, but also a more 
formal and significant proceeding in the East than 
among ourselves. It enters largely into the ordinary 
transactions of life : no negotiation, alliance, or con- 
tract of any kind can be entered into between states or 
sovereigns without a previous interchange of presents: 
none of the important events of private life, betrothal, 
marriage, coming of age, birth, take place without 
presents: even a visit, if of a formal nature, must be 
prefaced by a present. The extent to which the cus- 
tom prevailed admits of some explanation from the 
peculiar usages of the East: it is clear that the term 
‘gift’ is frequently used where we would substitute 
‘tribute’ or ‘fee.’ The tribute of subject states was 
paid, not in a fixed sum of money, but in kind, each na- 
tion presenting its particular product — a custom which 
is frequently illustrated in the sculptures of Assyria 
and Egypt; hence the numerous instances in which 
the present was no voluntary act, but an exaction 
(Judg. iii, 15-18; 2 Sam. viii, 2, 6; 1 Kings iv, 21; 2 
Kings xvii, 3 ; 2 Chron. xvii, 11 ; xxvi, 8) ; and hence 
the expression ‘to bring presents’ = to own submission 
(Psa. lxviii, 29 ; Ixxvi, 11 ; Isa. xviii, 7). Again, the 
present taken to a prophet was viewed very much in 
the light of a consulting ‘fee,’ and conveyed no idea 
of bribery (1 Sam. ix, 7 ; comp, xii, 3; 2 Kings v, 5; 
viii, 9): it was only when false prophets and corrupt 
judges arose that the present was prostituted, and be- 
came, instead of a minchah (as in the instances quoted), 
a shochad or bribe (Isa. i, 23; v, 23; Ezek. xxii, 12; 
Mic. iii, 11). But even allowing for these cases, which 
are hardly ‘gifts’ in our sense of the term, there is 
still a large excess remaining in the practice of the 
East : friends brought presents to friends on an}^ joy- 
ful occasion (Esth. ix, 19, 22), those who asked for in- 
formation or advice to those who gave it (2 Kings viii, 
8), the needy to the wealthy from whom any assistance 
was expected (Gen. xliii, 11 ; 2 Kings xv, 19 ; xvi, 8), 
rulers to their favorites (Gen. xlv, 22; 2 Sam. xi, 8), 
especially to their officers (Esth. ii, 18 ; Josephus, Ant. 
xii, 2, 15), or to the people generally on festive occa- 
sions (2 Sam. vi, 19): on the occasion of a marriage, 
the bridegroom not only paid the parents for his bride 
(A. V. ‘ dowry’), but also gave the bride certain pres- 
ents (Gen. xxxiv, 12 ; comp. Gen. xxiv, 22), while the 
father of the bride gave her a present on sending her 
away, as is expressed in the term shilluchim (tt'Vtbr) 
(1 Kings ix, 16); and again, the portions of the sons 
of concubines were paid in the form of presents (Gen. 
xxv, 6). 

“The nature of the presents was as various as were 
the occasions: food (1 Sam. ix, 7; xvi, 20; xxv, 18), 
sheep, and cattle (Gen. xxxii, 13-15; Judg. xv, 1 ), 
gold (2 Sam. xviii, 11 ; Job xiii, 11 ; Matt, ii, 11), jew- 
els (Gen. xxiv-, 53), furniture, and vessels for eating 
and drinking (2 Sam. xvii, 28), delicacies, such as 
spices, honey, etc. (Gen. xxiv, 53; 1 Kings x, 25; 
2 Kings v, 22), particularly in the case of persons in- 
ducted into high office (Esth.vi,8; Dan. v, 16; comp. 
Herod, iii, 20). The mode of presentation was with as 
much parade as possible ; the presents were conveyed 
by the hands of servants (Judg. iii, 18), or, still better, 
on the backs of beasts of burden (2 Kings viii, 9), even 
when such a mode of conveyance was unnecessary. 


The refusal of a present was regarded as a high indig- 
nity, and this constituted the aggravated insult noticed 
in Matt, xxii, 11, the marriage robe having been offer- 
ed and refused (Trench, Parables). No less an insult 
was it not to bring a present when the position of the 
parties demanded it (1 Sam. x, 27)” (Smith, s. v.). 
Comp. Present. 

Gift of Tongues. See Tongues, Gift of. 

Gifts, Spiritual (xapiapara, chari sms'). On this 
subject we make the following extract, by permission, 
from Scliaff, History of the Apostolic Church , § 116: 

“By the expression spiritual gift or gift of grace, 
Xctpiapa, ivspyi)fjia, the apostle meaus ‘a revelation of 
the Spirit for the common good’ (dJnFfpwcrq- rov irvev- 
parog 7 rpbg to avfapipor, 1 Cor. xii, 7 ; 7 rpbg rt)v o(ko- 
COfu)v ri]Q kKK\i)<riag, xiv, 12; compare Eph. iv, 12); 
that is, not faith in general, which constitutes the es- 
sence of the whole Christian disposition, but a particu- 
lar energy and utterance of the believer’s life, prompt- 
ed and guided bv the Holy Ghost, for the edification 
of the Church ; the predominant religious qualification, 
the peculiar divine talent of the individual, by which 
he is to perform his function, as an organic member, in 
the vital action of the whole, and promote its growth. 
It is, therefore, as the name itself implies, something 
supernaturally wrought, and bestowed by free grace 
(comp. 1 Cor. xii, 11); yet it forms itself, like Chris- 
tianity in general, upon the natural basis prepared for 
it in the native intellectual and moral capacities of the 
man, which are in fact themselves gifts of God. These 
natural qualities it baptizes with the Holy Ghost and 
with fire, and rouses to higher and freer activity. The 
cliarisins arc many, corresponding to the various facul- 
ties of the soul and the needs of the body of Christ ; 
and in this ’very abundance and diversity of gifts are 
revealed the riches of divine grace (jrotuiXi) x ct P l G~* ov, 
1 lVt. iv, 10). As, however, they all flow from the 
same source, are wrought by the Holy Ghost, and are 
gifts of free grace, so they all subserve the same end, 
the edification of the body of Christ. Hence the apos- 
tle applies to them the beautiful simile of the bodily 
organism, the harmonious co-operation of different 
members (Rom. xii, 4-6; 1 Cor. xii, 12 sq.). To this 
practical design the term administrations or ministry 
( AiaKoviai , 1 Cor. xii, 5; comp. Eph. iv, 12; 1 Pet. iv, 
10) no doubt refers. Every one has ‘ his proper gift,’ 
which best corresponds to his natural peculiarity and 
is indispensable for his sphere of activity (1 Cor. vii, 
7; xii, 11; Rom. xii, 6; 1 Pet. iv, 10). But several 
charisms may also be united in one individual. This 
was the case particularly with the apostles, whose of- 
fice in fact originally included all other spiritual of- 
fices and their functions, even to the diaconatc (comp. 
Acts iv, 35, 37 ; vi, 2). It is true they all had not 
these gifts in equal measure. John seems to have pos- 
sessed especially the charisms of love, profound knowl- 
edge, and prophecy ; Peter, those of Church govern- 
ment and discipline, miracles, and discernment of spir- 
its (comp. Acts v, 1 sq.); James, those of the faithful 
episcopal superintendence of a congregation, and si- 
lent, patient service at the altar. Most variously en- 
dowed in this respect was St. Paul, eminent alike in 
knowing and in setting forth divine mysteries; fitted 
both for the labors of a pioneer, and for preserving and 
confirming established order; at home among visions 
and revelations ; excelling all the Corinthians in the 
gift of tongues (1 Cor. xiv, 18); and accredited among 
them by signs and wonders (2 Cor. xii, 12). The 
greatest movements in the history of the world always 
proceed from individuals uncommonly gifted, in whom 
the scattered mental energies of their age are harmo- 
niously concentrated. Of course, however, the num- 
ber or strength of the charisms establishes no merit of 
preference as to the attainment of salvation. For this, 
living faith in Christ is sufficient. The charisms are 
free gifts of grace ; and the man is responsible, not for 


800 


GIFTS, SPIRITUAL 


GIFTS, SPIRITUAL 


the possession, but for the use of them. Every spirit- 
ual gift is liable to abuse. Spiritual knowledge may 
putl' up (1 (’or. viii, 1). The gift of tongues may fos- 
ter vanity and the disposition to monopolize the ben- 
efit of worship in self-edifying rapture (xiv, 2 sq.). 
And every gift is attended with heavy responsibility. 
Hence the apostle’s earnest commendation of love, 
which alone would prevent such abuse of other gifts, 
and make their exercise pleasing to God. The value 
of the gifts varied ; not depending, however, as many 
of the Corinthians thought, on their splendor and out- 
ward effect, but on their practical utility for building 
up the kingdom of God (1 Cor. xii, 31 ; xiv, 3 sq.). 
This extraordinary operation of the Spirit showed it- 
self first in the apostles on the day of Bcntecost, the 
birthday of the Church. Some of these gifts, as those 
of prophecy and miracles, meet us, indeed, even in the 
Old Testament; and before the resurrection of Christ 
we find the disciples healing the sick and casting out 
devils (Matt, xi, 8 ; Mark vi, 13). But the permanent 
possession of the Holy Ghost as the Spirit of Christ 
was attached to his glorification and exaltation to the 
right hand of the Father (John vii, 39). Thence it fol- 
lowed the steps of the heralds of the Gospel as a holy 
energy, awakening in every susceptible soul a depth 
of knowledge, a power of will, and a jubilee of heav- 
enly joy, which formed a glowing contrast with the. 
surrounding paganism. For the Lord had promised 
(Mark xvi, 17, 18) that the gifts of speaking with 
tongues, easting out devils, and healing, should be not 
confined to a few, but bestowed on the mass of believ- 
ers. This blooming glory of the infant Church un- 
folded itself most luxuriantly among the. intellectual, 
excitable, gifted Greeks, especially in the Corinthian 
Church. But there, too, the dangers and abuses at- 
tending it most frequently appeared. The usual me- 
dium of communicating spiritual gifts was the laying 
on of the apostles’ hands (Acts viii, 17 ; xix, G ; 1 Tim. 
iv, 14); yet on Cornelius and his company the Holy 
Ghost fell immediately after the simple preaching of 
the Gospel, and they began to speak with tongues and 
prophesy, to the great astonishment of the Jewish- 
Christiau brethren, before Peter had baptized them 
(Acts x, 44, 46). 

“ It is the prevailing view that the charisms, some 
of them at least, as those of miracles and tongues, be- 
long not essentially and permanently to the Church, 
but were merely a temporary adventitious efflorescence 
of the apostolic period, an ornamental appendage, like 
the wedding-dress of a youthful bride, and afterwards 
disappeared from history, giving place to the regular 
and natural kind of moral and religious activity. So, 
among the ancients, Chrysostom, who begins his twen- 
ty-ninth homily on the Epistle to the Corinthians with 
these words ; ToDro i'nrai’ to ytupi \ov atyallpa iorin ctcra- 

f f, T)]V C f iKJCKptUlV If TtOV 7T p « y p rt T 0 ) V it y V 0 t Cl 

rf i cal f \Xf i\l / 1 q 7roi(7,Tiov tots fitv ovpf3ai VUV- 
TiuV'Vvv ot oil ytvofisviov. Among moderns 
compare, for example, Olshanscn ( Comment . iii, G83), 
who makes the charismatic form of the Spirit’s opera- 
tion cease with the third century. With special dis- 
tinctness, t his view is expressed by Trautmann as fol- 
lows (Die A postal. Kircke, 1848, p. 309) : ‘As, in the case 
of marriage, the, festivity of the wedding-day cannot 
always last, any more than the inspiration of the first 
love when the seriousness and steads' activity of the 
common pilgrimage just begun comes on ; as, accord- 
ing to the universal order of nature, the blossom must 
fall away if the fruit is to thrive — though, on the oth- 
er hand, the fruit docs not appear without the preced- 
ing blossom — so that gush of heavenly powers on the 
day of l'entecost conhl not, must not continue in the 
Church. It could not — because the earthly human na- 
ture is not able constantly to bear the bliss of ecstasy 
and such might}' streams of' power from ‘above, as is 
shown by the example of the three chosen disciples on 
the Mount of Transfiguration. It must not — because 


the continuance of the blossom would have hindered 
the development of the fruit. The splendor of these 
higher powers would unavoidably have fixed the eye 
and the heart too much on externals, and the proper 
object and work of faith, the inward conquest of the 
world, would have been neglected.’ The Irvingites, 
on the contrary, like the Montanists of the second cen- 
tury, look upon these apostolic gifts and offices as the 
necessary conditions of a healthy state of the Church 
at any time ; make their disappearance the fault of 
Christianity : and hold it impossible to remedy the de- 
fects of the Church without a revival of the charisms 
and the apostolate. They appeal to such passages as 
1 Cor. xii, 27-31 ; Eph. iv, 11-13, where undue empha- 
sis is laid on ‘till and to 1 Thess. v, 19, 20; 1 Cor. 
xii, 31 ; xiv, 1, where the apostle not only warns Chris- 
tians against quenching the holy fire of the Spirit, but 
also positively requires them to strive earnestly after 
his miraculous gifts. So Thiersch, the (only 4 scien- 
tific theologian of the Irvingite community, in his Jor- 
le sun gen i'ther Katholicismus und Protest an tismus, i, 80 
(2d edit.); compare my articles on ‘ Irvingisni and the 
Church Question’ in the Deutsche Kh\ henfremid , vol. 
iii, Nos. 2, 3, 5, and G, particularly p. 223 sq. The Mor- 
mons, too, or ‘Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day 
Saints,’ whose rise (April G, 1830) was almost simulta- 
neous with the appearance of Irvingisni in England, 
notwithstanding their radical difference in spirit and 
conduct, likewise claim to possess all the offices and 
spiritual gifts of the apostolic Church. Their founder, 
Joseph Smith, lays down, among other articles of faith : 
‘ We believe in the same organization that existed in 
the primitive Church, viz. apostles, prophets, pastors, 
teachers, evangelists, ete. We believe in the gift of 
tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, inter- 
pretation of tongues,’ etc. (Hist, of all the Relig. De- 
nominations in the U. S. p. 348, 2d edit.). There seems 
to us to be here a mixture of truth and error on both 
sides. In these charisms we must distinguish between 
the essence and the temporary form. The first is per- 
manent; the second has disappeared, yet breaks out at 
times sporadically, though not with the same strength 
and purity as in the apostolic period. In the nature 
of the case, the Holy Ghost, when first entering into 
humanity, came with peculiar creative power, copious- 
ness, and freshness; presented a striking contrast to 
the mass of the unchristian world ; and by this very 
exhibition of what was extraordinary and miraculous, 
exerted a mighty attraction upon the world, without 
which it could never have been conquered. Christian- 
ity, however, aims to incorporate herself in the life of 
humanity, enter into all its conditions and spheres of 
activity as the ruling principle, and thus to become 
the second, higher nature. As it raises the natural 
more and more into the sphere of the Spirit, so in this 
very process it makes the supernatural more and more 
natural. These arc but two aspects of one and the 
same operation. Accordingly we find, that as fast as 
the reigning power of heathenism is broken, those 
charisms which exhibited most of the miraculous be- 
come less frequent, and after the fourth century al- 
most entirely disappear. This is not owing to a fault 
of Christianity, for at that very time the Church pro- 
duced some of her greatest teachers, lier Athanasius 
and her Ambrose, her Chrysostom and her Augustine. 
It is rather a result of its victory over the world. Spir- 
itual gifts, however, did not then fully and forever dis- 
appear ; for in times of great awakening, and of the 
powerful descent of the Spirit, in the creative epochs 
of the Church, we now' and then observe phenomena 
quite similar to those of the first century, along with 
the corresponding dangers and abuses, and even Sa- 
tanic imitations and caricatures. These manifestations 
then gradually cease again, according to the law ot the 
development of a new principle as just stated. Such 
facts of experience may serve, to confirm and illustrate 
the phenomena of the apostolic age. In judging of 


GIFTTHEIL 


861 


GIIION 


them, moreover, particularly of the mass of legends of 
the Ivoinan Church, which still lays claim to the per- 
petual possession of the gift of miracles, we must pro- 
ceed with the greatest caution and critical discrimina- 
tion. In view of the over-valuation of cliarisms by 
the Montanists and Irvingites, we must never forget 
that Paul puts those which most shun free inspection, 
and most rarely appear, as the gift of tongues, far be- 
neath the others, which pertain to the regular vital ac- 
tion of the Church, and are at all times present in 
larger or smaller measure, as the gifts of wisdom, of 
knowledge, of teaching, of trying spirits, of govern- 
ment, and, above all, of love, that greatest, most valu- 
able, most useful, and most enduring of all the fruits 
of the Spirit (1 Cor. xiii). 

“Finally, as to the classification of the charisms. 
They have often been divided into extraordinary or 
supernatural in the strict sense, and ordinary or natu- 
ral. (So by Neander; also by Conybeare and How- 
son, The Life and Epistles of St. Paul [London, 1853], 
i, 453.) But thL is improper, for, on the one hand, 
they all rest on a natural basis, even the gift of mira- 
cles (upon the dominion of mind over body, of will 
over matter); and, on the other, they are all super- 
natural. St. Paul derives them all from one and the 
same Spirit, and it is only their supernatural, divine 
element, that makes them eharisms. Nor, according 
to what has been already said, eau the division into 
permanent, or those whieh belong to the Church at all 
times, and transitory, or such as are confined to the 
apostolic period, be strictly carried out. We there- 
fore propose a psychological classification, on the ba- 
sis of the thr & primary faculties of the soul; they all 
being capable and in need of sanctification, and the 
Holy Ghost, in fact, leaving none of them untouched, 
but turning them all to the edification of the Church, 
With this corresponds also the classification according 
to the different branches of the Church-life, in which the 
activity of one or the other of these faculties thus su- 
pernaturally elevated predominates. This would give 
us three classes of charisms : 1. Those which relate es- 
pecially to feeling and wot'ship. 2. Those whieh relate 
to knowledge and theology. 3. Those which relate to 
will and Church government. To the gifts of feeling be- 
long speaking with tongues, interpretation of tongues, 
and inspired prophetic discourse; to the theoretical 
class, or gifts of intellect, belong the eharisms of wis- 
dom and of knowledge, of teaching and of discerning 
spirits; to the practical class, or gifts of will, the eha- 
risms of ministration, of government, and of miracles. 
Faith lies back of all, as the motive power, taking up 
the whole man, and bringing all his faculties into con- 
tact with the divine Spirit, and under his influence 
and control.” 

On the special gifts, see further in Scliaff, Ilist . of 
the Apost. Church , § 117-120. On the gift of tongues, 
See Tongues, Gift of. See also Jortin, Remarks on 
Ecclesiastical History; Doddridge, Lectures on Pneu- 
matology ; Neander, Planting an l Training , ch. i; l)e- 
litzsch, Biblical Psychology , part v ; Martensen, Chris- 
tian Dogmatics, § 233-235; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. iv, 
735 sq. ; and the art. Catholic Afostolic Churcii ; 
Plymouth Brethren. 

Gifttheil, Ludwig Friedrich, a native of Sna- 
bia, made himself a name in the 17th century by his 
fanatical denunciations o' the State Church and its 
ministers. The date of his birth is not known, but he 
began to write during the Thirty- Years’ War. Gift- 
tlieil not only opposed the religious institutions of his 
day, hut also believed himself called to warn the gov- 
ernments against war and bloodshed. For this object 
he wrote to the king of England, in 1G43-1644, Ziccen 
Brief e, girichtet an die Machtigen in England , etc. ; 

then, in 1647, his Eme nene Deduction aus Orient , etc. 
He continued his warnings also to Cromwell, and, 
among other things, called the protector “field-mar- 
shal of the devil, highwayman, thief, and murderer.” 


After wandering over more than the half of Europe, 
he died at Amsterdam in 1611. See Arnold, Kirchen- 
u. Ketzerhist. iii, 10; Bohme, 8 Bucher v. d. Reforma- 
tion der Kirche in England (Altona, 1734, p. 941 sq.) ; 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 155. (J. N. I*.) 

Giger, George Musgrave, an eminent divine and 
scholar in the Presbyterian Church, was born in Phil- 
adelphia -June 6, 1822. He graduated with high honor 
at Nassau Hall in 1811, and studied divinity in the 
Theological Seminary at Princeton in 1844. “Soon 
after finishing his college course he was chosen tutor 
in New Jersey College. This position he held till 
1846, when he was elected adjunct professor of mathe- 
matics. In the following year he was elected adjunct 
professor of Greek, and in 1854 professor of the Latin 
language and literature. lie held this chair till 1*65, 
when tailing health obliged him to resign. He died 
in Philadelphia Oct. 11, 1865. Dr. Giger was heartily 
attached to the interests of the college with which he 
was so long connected. lie bequeathed to it his li- 
brary, and it is also a residuary legatee to the extent 
of thirty thousand dollars.” He also left legacies to 
“Clio Ilall,” one of the college societies, and to the 
order of 3. fa sons. — Wilson’s Presbyterian Historical Al- 
manac, ix, 146. 

Gi'hon (Heb. Gichon , *prpa, in 1 Kings *pnj;, a 
stream , as breaking forth from a fountain ; Sept. in 
Gen. ii, 13 rtub' v. r. Pijwv, in 1 Kings i, 33, 38 FuDr, 
in 2 Chron. xxxii, 30 Ffiwr, undistinguishable in 2 
Chron. xxxiii, 14; Vulg. Gihon'), the name of two wa- 
ter-courses. Gesenius compares Job xl, 23, and the 
Arabic jayhauna and jayhunu , spoken of several larger 
Asiatic streams, as the Ganges, Araxes, etc. 

1. The second of the four rivers of Eden, said to 
flow around the land of Cush or Ethiopia (1 Gen. ii, 13). 
What river is actually denoted here is a matter of 
great dispute and uncertainty; perhaps the face of the 
country in question has been so greatly changed since 
that time (although the present tense is used by Moses 
in the description) as to efface the distinctive marks 
given. See Paradise. We may here remark, how- 
ever, that the usual interpretation, and the one adopt- 
ed by Gesenius, is that of Josephus (17/<5 j , Ant. i, 1, 
3), which identifies the Gihon with the Nile; so also 
the Sept., which in .Ter. ii, 18, for Siiior or the Nile, 
has ripbv, and in Ecelus. xxiv, 27 puts V ipov (A. Y. 
“Geon’’) for the Nile. The Mohammedans likewise 
reckon the Nile as one of the rivers of Paradise ( Fund- 
grab \ des Orients, i, 304). Others regard the Oxus as 
meant (Bosennuiller, Alterth. i, 1, p. 184 ; Hitter, Erdk. 
ii, 480), others the Araxes (Belaud); others still the 
Ganges (Ewald, Isr. Gesch. i, 333). — Winer, i, 428. 

The second river of Paradise presents difficulties 
not less insurmountable than the first, or Pison. Those 
who maintained that the Pison is the Ganges held also 
that the Gihon was the Nile. One great objection to 
this theory' is, that although in the books of the Old 
Testament frequent allusion is made to this river, it 
nowhere appears to have been known to the Hebrews 
by the name Gihon. The idea seems to have origina- 
ted with the Sept, rendering of ‘"firV r .2 by Fiywn in Jer. 
ii, 18; but it is clear, from the manner in which the 
translators have given the latter clause of the same 
passage, that they had no conception of the true mean- 
ing. Among modern writers, Bertheau (quoted by 
Delitzsch, Genesis ) and Kaliseli ( Genesis ) have not hes- 
itated to support this interpretation, in accordance 
with the principle they adopt, that the description of 
the garden of Eden is to be explained according to the 
most ancient notions of the earth’s surface, without 
reference to the advances made in later times in geo- 
graphical knowledge. If this hypothesis he adopted, 
it certainly explains some features of the narrative, 
but, so far from removing the difficulty, it introduces 
another equally great. U has yet to be proved that 
the opinions of the Hebrews on these points were as 


GIHOX 


862 


GIHOX 


contradictory to the now well-known relations of land, 
and water as the recorded impressions of other nations 
at a much later period. At present we have nothing 
hut categorical assertion. Pansanias (ii, 5), indeed, 
records a legend that the Euphrates, after disappear- 
ing in a marsh, rises again beyond Ethiopia, and flows 
through Egypt as the Nile. Arrian {Exp. Alex, vi, 1) 
relates that Alexander, on finding crocodiles in the In- 
dus, and beans like those of Egypt on the banks of the 
Acesinos, imagined that he had discovered the sources 
of the Kile ; but he adds, what those who make use of 
this passage do not find it convenient to quote, that on 
receiving more accurate information Alexander aban- 
doned his theory, and cancelled the letter he had writ- 
ten to his mother Olympias on the subject. It is but 
fair to say that there was at one time a theory afloat 
that the Kile rose in a mountain of Lower Mauretania 
(Pliny, //. A r . v, 10). 

The etymology of Gihon (rPJi, to burst forth ) seems 
to indicate that it was a swiftly-flowing, impetuous 
stream. According to Golius {Lex. Arab .), Jichun is 
the name given to the Oxus, which has, on this ac- 
count, been assumed by Rosenmiiller, Hartmann, and 
Michaelis to be the Gihon of Scripture. Cut the Arax- 
es, too, is called by the Persians Jichun ar-Ras , and 
from this circumstance it has been adopted by Poland, 
Calmet, and colonel Chesney as t lie modern represent- 
ative of the Gihon. It is clear, therefore, that the 
question is not to be decided by etymology alone, as 
the name might be appropriately applied to many riv- 
ers. That the Gihon should be one of the channels by 
which the united stream of the Tigris and Euphrates 
falls into the Persian Gulf, was essential to the theory 
which places the garden of Eden on the Shat el-Arab. 
Bock art and lluet contended that it was the eastern- 
most of these channels, while Calvin considered it to be 
the most westerly. Ilopkinson and Junius, conceiving 
that Eden was to he found in the region of Auranitis 
{ — Audanitis, quasi Edenitis ), on the Euphrates, were 
compelled to make the Gihon coincide with the Nahar- 
sar, the Marses of Amm. Marc, (xxiii, C, § 25). That 
it should be the Orontes (Leclerc), the Ganges (Butt- 
mann and Ewald), the Kur, or Cyrus, which rises from 
the side of the Saghanlou mountain, a few miles north- 
ward of the sources of the Araxes (Link), necessarily 
followed from the exigencies of the several theories. 
Risk and Verbruggc are in favor of the Gyndes of the 
ancients (Ilerod. i, 180), now called the Diyalah, one 
of the tributaries of the Tigris. Abraham Peritsol 
(ITgolino, vol. vii) was of opinion that the garden of 
Eden was situated in the region of the Mountains of 
the Moon. Identifying the Pison with the Kile, and 
the Gihon with a river which his editor, Hyde, ex- 
plains to be the Kiger, he avoids the difficulty which 
is presented by the fact that the Hiddekel and P’rath 
are rivers of Asia, by conceiving it possible that these 
rivers actually take their rise in the Mountains of the 
Moon, and then run under ground till they make their 
appearance in Assyria. Equally unsatisfactory is the 
explanation of Ephraem Syrus that the four rivers 
have their source in Paradise, which is situated in a 
very lofty place, but are swallowed up by the sur- 
rounding districts, and, after passing underneath the 
sea, come to light again in different quarters of the 
globe. — Smith, s. v. Eden. 

Inasmuch as the sacred narrative makes it evident 
that all the rivers in question took their origin from 
the head waters of the Euphrates and the Tigris, we 
must refer the Gihon to one of the streams of the same 
region, namely, the lake system of Central Armenia, 
in the vicinity of Lake Van. As the Euphrates and 
Tigris flow southerly, so we may naturally conclude j 
that hv the Pison and Gihon are intended rivers .flow- I 
ing northerly, probably one towards the Caspian, and 
the other towards the Euxiite. Ko bettor representa- j 
five of the Gihon can he found in this region than the I 
Araxes { Apd&jg) of antiquity, which, as we have seen, | 


to this day bears the same name among the Arabs. 
This is a large river in Armenia Major, which takes its 
rise from a number of sources in Mount Abus (the 
present Bin-Gol), nearly in the centre of the space be- 
tween the east and west branches of the Euphrates 
(Strabo, p. 531 ; Pliny, vi, 10; Ptolemy, v, 13; § 3, G, 
9). The general course may be described as east, then 
south-east, and, after flowing in a north-easterly direc- 
tion, it resumes its south-east course, and, after its 
junction with the Cyrus (Kur), it discharges itself into 
the Caspian Sea (Col. Monteith, in the London Geoyr. 
Journ. vol. iii). It is the modern Arras (Smith, Diet, 
o f Class. Geoyr. s. v.). See Eden. 

2. A fountain near Jerusalem, to which the young 
Solomon was taken to be anointed king (1 Kings i, 33, 
88), out of sight, hut within hearing of En-rogcl, with 
the city between (ver. 9, 41), but its direction is not 
indicated. Subsequently Ilezekiah “stopped the up- 
per water-course [or upper outflow of the waters] of 
Gihon, and brought it straight down to the west side 
of the city of David” (2 Chron. xxxii,80; xxxiii, 14). 
This was, perhaps, on occasion of the approach of the 
Assyrian army under Sennacherib, when, to prevent 
the besiegers from finding water, great numbers of the 
people labored with much diligence in stopping the 
water of the fountains without the city, and in partic- 
ular of “ the brook that ran through the midst of the 
land” (2 Chron. xxxii, 3, 4). The author of the hook 
of Sirach (xlviii, 17) also states that “ Ilezekiah 
brought water into the midst of the city ; he dug with 
iron into the rock, and built fountains for the waters.” 
The fountain of Gihon is also mentioned by Josephus 
as lying outside the cit} T (Ptaij/, .4 nt. vii, 14, 5). From 
a comparison of these passages, the editor of the Picto- 
rial Bible (on 2 Chron. xxxii) arrived at the conclu- 
sion, since confirmed by Dr. Robinson {Researches, i, 
813), that tiiere existed anciently a fountain of Gihon 
on the west side of the city, which was “stopped” or 
covered over by Ilezekiah, and its waters brought by 
subterraneous channels into the city. Before that 
time it would naturally have flowed down through the 
valley of the Gihon, and probably formed the brook 
which was stopped at the same time. “The fountain 
may have been stopped, and its waters thus secured 
very easily by digging deep and erecting over it one 
or more vaulted subterranean chambers. Something 
of the very same kind is still seen in the fountains 
near Solomon's Pools beyond Bethlehem, where the 
water rises in subterranean chambers, to which there 
is no access except down a narrow shaft like a well. 
In this way the waters of Gihon would be withdrawn 
from the enemy and preserved in the city, in which 
they would seem to have been distributed among va- 
rious reservoirs and fountains.” From all these cir- 
cumstances there seems little room to doubt that an 
open fountain, called “the fountain of Gihon,” did 
anciently exist on the west side of the city, the waters 
of which may still continue to flow by subterranean 
channels down to the ancient Temple, and perhaps to 
Siloam. This fountain was probably near the present 
I T pper Pool, in the valley west of Jerusalem. This 
Upper Pool is a large tank, which is dry in summer, 
but in the rainy season becomes full, when its waters 
are conducted by a small, rude aqueduct or channel 
to the vicinity of the Jaffa Gate, and so to the Pool of 
Ilezekiah within the city (Robinson’s Researches, \, 
352, 512-514). Mr. Williams {Holy City, ii, 4^0) sug- 
gests another route for the water in question, namely, 
that the upper spring of Gihon once had its issue on 
the north side of the city, not far from the tombs of 
the kings, where its waters were originally received 
into a basin called the Serpent’s Pool, and thence 
flowed down the valley of Jehoshaphat. This upper 
outflow Hezckia'h stopped, and brought the water by 
an aqueduct down the Tyropoeon to the Temple, 
whence the surplus flowed off by an old chanuel to 
the fountain of the Virgin, and was continued through 


GIHOJST 


863 GILBERT DE LA PORREE 


a new bore to the Pool of Siloam, which Mr. Wil- 
liams thinks was the Lower Pool of Isa. xxii, 9, 11. 
Schwarz {Palest, p, 2GG) likewise confounds the lower 
spring of Gihon with Siloam. This latter, he says, 
has the same peculiar qualities as the water of a eis- 
tern found between the castle of David and the Tem- 
ple Mount, showing the course of the now closed up- 
per fount of Gihon. From the terms of the first pas- 
sage in which Gihon is mentioned (1 Kings i, 33, 38, 
45), it is evident it was at a lower level than the city 
— “Bring him down (Onn^h) upon (bv) Gihon” — 
“They arc come tip (*1^?) from thence.” With this 
agrees a later mention (2 Chron. xxxiii, 14), where it 
is called “ Gihon-in-the-valley,” the word rendered 
valley being nachal (^H3). In this latter place Gihon 
is named to designate the direction of the wall built 
by Manasseh — “outside the city of David, on the west 
of [rather to b] Gihon-in-the-valley to the entrance of 
the lish-gate.” It is not stated in any of the above 
passages that Gihon was a spring; but the only re- 
maining place in which it is mentioned suggests that 
idea, or at least that it had given its name to some 
water — “ilezekiah also stopped the upper source or 
issue (KSta, from X2P, to rush forth ; incorrectly 
‘water-course’ in A.V.) of the waters of Gihon” (2 
Chron. xxxii, 30). If the place to which Solomon 
was brought down on the king’s mule was Gihon-in- 
the-valley — and from the terms above noticed it seems 
probable that it was — then the “upper source” would 
be some distance away, and at a higher level. • Jose- 
phus also speaks of water brought to the tower of Hip- 
picus {War, v, 7, 3), which could only have come 
from the west. The following are therefore the views 
propounded as to its real import and locality : (1) Some 
affirm that Gihon was the ancient name of the valley 
of Jchoshapliat, and that it is compounded of the words 
fcC'S, “ a valley,” and in, “ beauty.” The fountain 
of the Virgin, which rises at the bottom of the valley, 
had originally flowed into the brook Ividron, but was 
artificially carried bv a conduit across the ridge of 
Sion (?) to the Pool of Siloam. This was the lower 
water-course of Gihon. More to the north was an- 
ciently another spring, called the upper water-course 
of Gihon, which was stopped or sealed in the time of 
Ilezekiah, and conveyed to the west side of the city 
of David (Lewin, Jerusalem , p. 11 sq.). It will be 
seen that in this theory the “ city of David” is iden- 
tified with Moriah. (2) Others think that Gihon was 
the old name of the Tyropoean valley ; that the Pool 
of Siloam was the “lower Gihon and that the “up- 
per Gihon” was only the table-land north of the Da- 
mascus gate (Williams, Holy City , i, 124, supplement). 
(3) Others hold that Gihon was a name sometimes 
given to the valley of Hinnom, and that the “up- 
per outflow” was at the head of that valley west of 
the city (Robinson, B. ft. i, 346). (4) An English en- 

gineer, recently sent out to survey the waters of Je- 
rusalem, has reported that there is not., and from the 
position of the city and the character of the strata 
there could not be, any perennial fountain in or around 
Jerusalem. The so-called Fountain of the Virgin, he 
says, is supplied by the leakage from the great cisterns 
under the Temple area ; and the peculiar taste of its 
water is occasioned by stagnation and filth (MS. Re- 
port). If this be so, then Gihon could neither be a 
fountain nor a perennial stream. The results of this 
examination of authorities may be thus stated. The 
upper fountain of Gihon was in the head of the valley 
of Hinnom, .and a stream from it ran down through 
that valley. The fountain was covered by Ilezekiah, 
and the water brought into the city of David by a con- 
cealed channel, partly hewn in the rock. There was 
an “upper” and a “lower” pool in this valley. A 
close examination of the place tends to confirm these 
views. Ko fountain has yet been discovered, nor could 


I it be without extensive excavations ; but a section of 
' an old aqueduct was laid bare when sinking the foun* 

! dations of the new church on the northern summit of 
Zion. It was twenty feet beneath the surface, in 
places excavated in the rock, and its direction was 
from -west to east (Bartlett, Walks about Jerusalem , p. 
84). This may be a portion of Hezekiali’s aqueduct 
from Gihon ; and it may have carried the water to the 
Temple area as well as to Zion. In the valley of Ilin- 
nom are still two great “pools one at its head, call- 
ed Birket el-Mamdla ; another west of the present 
Sion gate in the bottom of the glen, called Birket es- 
Sultan . r Ihe fountain or rivulet in question is doubt- 
less a part of the aqueduct system of Jerusalem, all of 
it probably traceable to the supply from the pools of 
Solomon at Bethlehem. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 
See Jerusalem. 

Gil, Juan, commonly called Dr. Egidius, was one 
of the early converts to the Reformation in Spain. 
He was born at Olivera, in Aragon, and was educa- 
ted at the University of Alcala, where he devoted him- 
self especially to the Scholastic theology. After his 
ordination he became eanon-preaeher at the cathedral 
of Seville, and professor of theology at Siguenza. 
Under the influence of Rodrigo de Valer (q. v.) he 
was led to the careful study of the Bible, and the ef- 
fect appeared in the life and power of his preaching, 
which was soon noised abroad. He united with Var- 
gas (q. v.) and Ponce de la Fuente in a plan for dif- 
fusing practical religious life. In 1550 he was nom- 
inated by the emperor to the bishopric of Tortosa, 
and this preferment excited the anger of his enemies. 
He was seized and imprisoned by the Inquisition on a 
charge of heresy. The emperor and the chapter of 
Seville interfered in his behalf ; but, after a singular 
trial (for details, see M‘Crie), he was condemned to 
imprisonment (1551), from which he was released in 
1555. He died soon after. His remains were taken 
from the grave by order of the Inquisition, and burnt, 
as those of a Lutheran heretic. — M‘Crie, Reformation 
in Spain , ch. iv. 

Gil'alai (Heb. Gilalay', perhaps dungy [Ge- 
senius], or weighty [Furst] ; Sept. FtXojA), one of the 
priests appointed by Nehemiali to aid Zechariah in the 
musical services under Ezra at the dedication of the 
walls of Jerusalem (Neh. xii, 36). B.C. 446. 

Gilbert de la Porree {Gislebertus Porretanus'), 
a Scholastic theologian and follower of Abelard, was 
born at Poitiers in 1070. He studied philosophy under 
Bernard of Chartres, and theology under Anselm and 
Radulfus of Laon. lie began to lecture at Chartres, 
and both there and at Paris achieved great distinction 
as a profound logician and an original teacher. In 
1142 he was made bishop of Poitiers, but did not give 
up his metaphysical pursuits. lie treated theology 
more as a metaphysician than as a divine, making 
more use of Aristotle than of Scripture or of the fa- 
thers. His style was very obscure. He was a thor- 
ough Realist in philosophy. For his theories with re- 
gard to the divine nature he was accused at the Coun- 
cil of Rheims in 1148, where Bernard of Clnirvaux 
headed the prosecution against him. The charges 
were founded on the following propositions of Gilbert: 
1. That the divine nature, the substance of God, is not 
God. 2. The properties of the divine persons are not 
the persons themselves ; . and the persons of the Trin- 
ity are one only in virtue of their divinity. 3. It was 
not the divine nature, but only the person of the Word, 
that became incarnate. 4. There is no merit possible 
but the merit of Christ. Gilbert was condemned, 
though some of the cardinals voted with him. He 
submitted to the decision of the council, and remained 
afterwards unmolested in his diocese. He died in 
1154. Gilbert wrote many books, part of which are 
yet in IMS. Among those printed are Commentarius 
in quatuor libros de Triniiate of Boethius, published hi 


GILBERT 


864 


GILBOA 


Boethii Opera (Bale, 1570, fol.) Liber sex Prince pi- 
arum , pub. in llennolau.s Barbarnsks edition of Aristo- 
tle. See llaureau, Philosophic Scolastique , i, 29G sq. ; 
Cousin, Introd. aux Outrages inedits d' Abe Hard; Baur, 
Dreietnigkeit , ii, 509 sq. ; Neandcr, Ch. History, iv, 410, 
461 ; X (‘under, History of Dogmas, p. 489, 497 ; Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. G inhale, xx, 464. 

Gilbert, Eliphalet Wheeler, D.D., a Presby- 
terian minister, and president of Delaware College, was 
born at Lebanon, Columbia Co., N. Y., Dec. 19, 1793, 
and graduated at Union College in 1813. After com- 
pleting Ins theological course at Princeton, lie was li- 
censed in 1817, went on a mission to the West, and on 
his return was elected pastor of the Second Presbyte- 
rian Church in Wilmington, Del. lie was frequently 
engaged in missionary labors ; and, on being released 
from his charge at Wilmington in 1834, he became 
agent for the American Education Society, but resign- 
ed on being chosen president of Delaware College. In 
1835 he returned to Wilmington, where he remained 
till 1841. when he was recalled to the presidency of 
Delaware College. After a second resignation of this 
oilice in 1847, lie w 7 as installed pastor of the Western 
Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, and died July 31, 
1853. lie published The Letters of Paul and Amicus ; 
two tracts, viz. Regeneration and Perseverance ; three 
articles in the Pi'tsb. Review , viz. Geology, The Apoca- 
lypse , and Millenarianism. — Sprague, Annals , iv, 596. 

Gilbert, Gad Smith, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in New Haven, Connec- 
ticut, September 22, 1814. lie studied at the Wesley- 
an University with a view' to the ministry, but for 
several years he turned his attention to secular pur- 
suits. In 1842 he joined the New 7 York Conference, 
and w r as stationed at New 7 Milford, Connecticut. Sub- 
sequently lie w'sis stationed at Woodbury and Wolcott- 
ville. In 1847 he located, and removed to Louisiana 
on account of the sickness of his wife, w ho died during 
the same year. While at the South, however, he had 
charge of the Methodist Church at Opelousas, La. In 
2818 lie returned and joined the New York East Con- 
ference, and was stationed at Greenport, L. I. After 
that he w'as stationed at Southport, Conn., First Place, 
Brooklyn, and Bye, N. Y. In 1855 he was agent for 
t lie Wesleyan University. In 1856 lie w 7 as stationed 
at Port Chester, N. Y., and afterwards at Second Ave- 
nue, New York City, Sag Harbor, L. I., De Kalb Ave- 
nue, Brooklyn, Tompkins Avenue, Brooklyn, which so- 
ciety he organized. His last appointment w'as South- 
port, Conn. He died in New 7 Haven, August 1, 1866. 
Shortly before his death he praised God, saying, “This 
house is as that of Obed-Edom, where the ark of the 
Lord rested ; it is the gate of heaven ; heaven has come 
clown to earth ; the angels are here. This disease is 
drawing my body down to earth, but Jesus is drawing 
my soul up to heaven; I shall soon be there.” And 
just before lie ceased to live on earth he said, “ Is this 
dying? it is felicity! 0 how precious Jesus is! Glo- 
ry, halleluiah !” — Minutes of Conferences, 1867, p. 77. 

Gilbert, Joseph, an English Independent minis- 
ter, was born in 1778, and was for many years pastor 
at Nottingham ; died in 3852. lie wrote The Christian 
Atonement (C ong. Lecture, London, 1836, 8vo; 2d edit. 
1852). See British Critic, xxi, 150; Life of Gilbert, bv 
his widow 7 (Loud. 1853, 12 mo); Darling, Cyclop. Bibli- 
ographicd , i, 1254; Allibono, Dictionary of Authors, i, 
668 . 

Gilbert of Sempringham (Guilbert), St., 
founder of the order of Gilbcrtincs, was the son of Jos- 
sclin, lord of Sempringham and Tirington, and was 
born in 1083. After completing his studies at Paris, 
he was ordained priest by the bishop of Lincoln, and 
received from bis father the stewardship of two estates. 
He then founded a house for seven poor maidens who 
had resolved to lead a life of chastity, and. who made 
vows of absolute seclusion. They were attended only 


by a few servants, from whom they received all they 
required through a window. The property with which 
I he had endowed this institution w 7 as attended to by 
poor laborers, w 7 hom he also subjected to certain rules 
! and observances. As similar institutions W'ere soon 
I erected in other places, Gilbert requested pope Eugene 
HI to incorporate his foundation with the Cistercians. 

! Eugene not complying with the request, he was obliged 
to provide in some other way for the guidance of his 
congregations, and in that view attached a convent of 
canons to each nunnery, framing at the same time 



Nun of the Order of St. Gil- 
bert. 


Regular Canon of tlie Order 
| of St. Gilbert. 

very strict rules to keep them each separate ; he placed 
the nuns under the rule of St. Benedict, and the can- 
ons under that of St. Augustine. The institution 
counted some 2200 men and several thousand women 
among its members, and hospitals for the poor, the 
■ sick, widows, and orphans were connected with their 
regular establishments. Gilbert died in 1189, aged 
106 years. The strictness of his life had not protected 
him from calumny. Ho was, however, canonized by 
pope Innocent 111 in 1202. At the time of the Refor- 
mation the order possessed 21 houses, and 11 double 
convents inhabited by both nuns and monks, but they'' 
were so strictly divided that the nuns received even 
communion through a window, and the canons admin- 
istered the extreme unction to dying nuns without 
seeing them. "Whenever it became absolutely neces- 
sary that a nun and monk should hold communication 
with each other, a witness w'as obliged to attend; 
hence a body of ten canons was appointed, together 
with a number of lay brethren, subject to the rule of 
Citeaux. The order was never propagated outside of 
England. The rule of the order is given in full by 
Holstenius (torn. ii). See Iiurter, Innocenz III u. s. 

' Zdtgenossen, iv, 230; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 413 
[ sq. ; Hoefef, Xouv. Biog. Gin. xx, 488. 

Gilbertilies. See Giliiert of Sempringham. 

Gilbo'a [many Gil 1 boa] (Heb. Cilbo'd , “2^5, boil- 
I ing spring, prob. from a neighboring fountain; Sept, 
and Joseph. Ant. vi, 14, 2, also Euseb. Onom. rt\(3ove), 
usually called Mount Gilboa (rS^SJn “H), a mountain 
near which (according to some) Gideon pitched on the 
! eve of his overthrow with the Midianites (Judg. vii,l 
[see Gilead, 2J) ; but especially memorable for the 
defeat of Saul by the Philistines, w here his three sons 
were slain, and where lie himself died by his own hand 
(1 Sam. xxviii, 4 ; xxxi, 1-8; 2 Sam. i, 6-21 : xxi, 12; 
1 Cliron. x, 1, 8). When the tidings w'ere carried to 
David, he broke out into tliis pathetic strain: “Ye 
mountains of Gilboa, let there be no rain upon you, 
neither dew, nor field of offering” (2 Sam. i, 21). 'I he 
j circumstances of the narrative would alone suffice to 


GILBOA 


865 


GILDER 


direct our attention to the mountains which bound the ] 
great plain of Esdraelon on the south-east, and are in- 
terposed between it and the Jordan valley. (See Stan- 
ley’s Sinai and Palestine, p. 337.) Here there are a 
number of ridges, with a general direction from north- 
west to south-east, separated by valleys running in the i 
same direction. The largest of these valleys is the 
southernmost: it is a broad, deep plain, about two 
i miles and a half wide, and leading direct into the Jor- 
dan valley. This is supposed to be distinctively (for 
the plain of Esdraelon is sometimes so called) t lie Val- 
ley of Jezrccl. The higher mountains which bound 
it on the south undoubtedly form Mount Gilboa. Eu- 
sebius mentions the mountains of Gilboa as lying six 
miles from Scythopolis, with a large village upon them 
called Gelhus (VtXjSovg). There is still, indeed, an in- 
habited village, in whose name o (Jelbon that of Gilboa 
may be recognised (Robinson’s Researches , iii,157, 170). 
The fountain implied in the name Gilboa may be that 
mentioned by 'William of Tyre (xxii, 2G) under the 
name of Tubania ("^? -^), being the large fountain 
still found at the north-eastern base, half a mile from 
the ruins, called in Scripture both the “Well of lla- 
rod” (Judg. vii, 1) and “The fountain of Jezreel” (1 
Sam. xxix, 1), and now called Ain-Jalud. See 11a- 

EOD. 

A knowledge of the topography of this region gives 
great vividness to several of the Scripture narratives, 
but especially to that of the fatal battle in which Saul 
fell. The range about six miles north of Gilboa, and 
».'f nearly equal elevation and length, was anciently 
called the “hill of Moreh” (Judg. vii, 1), but now Je- 
bel ed-Duhy (and by travellers “ Little Ilermon”). 
The intervening valley, named from the city of Jez- 
reel at the western extremity of Gilboa, has at its east- 
ern end, overlooking the Jordan, the mound and ruins 
of Bethshean. On the other side of the valley, and 
near the base of Moreh, stands Sliunem ; and away be- i 
hind the latter hill, hidden from view, is the village of 
Endor. The Philistines encamped oil the north side 
of the valley at S Inmem ; and Saul took up a position 
by the fountain of Jezreel, at the base of Gilboa (1 
Sam. xxviii, 4 ; xxix, 1). From the brow of the hill 
above the camp Saul had a full view of the enemy, | 
and he was struck with terror at their numbers (xxviii, 
5). The position he had chosen was a bad one. There 1 
is a gradual descent in the valley from Shunem to the 
base of Gilboa at the fountain, white immediately be- 
hind it the hill rises steep and rocky. The Philistines I 
had all the advantage of the gentle descent for their 
attack, and both front and flanks of the Israelites were | 
exposed, and retreat almost impossible up the steep j 
hill side. On the night before the battle Saul went to 
Endor. The battle seems to have begun early in the , 
morning, when the king was wearied and dispirited 
(xxviii, 19). The Israelites were broken at once by j 
the fierce onset of the enemy, and the slaughter was J 
terrible as they attempted to flee up the sides of Gil- 
boa. While the terror-stricken masses were clamber- 
ing up the rugged slopes, they were completely ex- i 
posed to the arrows of the Philistine archers. “ They 
fell down slain in Mount Gilboa” (xxxi, 1); “The 
Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons,” 
probably when they tried to rally their troops. The j 
three sons fell beside their father; “and the battle 
went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him ; and 
he was sore wounded of the archers” (ver. 3). David 
has caught the peculiarity of the position in his ode: 
“The beauty of Israel is slain upon the high places 
and, “ Jonathan, thou wast slain upon thine high 
places” (2 Sam. i, 19, 25). The stripping and muti- 
lating of the slain is characteristic of the Arab tribes 
to this day, and Porter witnessed some fearful instances 
of it in 1858 near this same spot {I land-honk for S. and 
P. p. 355). The Philistines took the body of Saul and 
fastened it to the wall of the neighboring fortress of 
Bethshean, from whence it was snatched by a few I 
III.— In 


brave men from Jabcsh-Gilead, on the opposite side of 
the Jordan (Stanley, Jetvish Church , ii, 30 sq.). See 
Saul. 

The ridge of Gilboa is bleak and bare (Wilson, Lands 
of Bible , ii, 85; Fiirst derives from this fact the name 
of the mountain, q. d. hare land , from 705, Ileb. Lex. 
s. v.). The soil is scanty, and the gray limestone 
rocks crop out in jagged cliffs and naked crowns, giv- 
ing the whole a look of painful barrenness. One 
would almost think, on looking at it, that David’s 
words were prophetic (Van de Velde, Narrative, ii, 3G9). 
The highest point of Gilboa is said to have an eleva- 
tion of about 2200 feet above the sea, and 1200 above 
the valley of Jezreel (Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 178). 
The range of Gilboa extends in length some ten miles 
from W. to E. The modern local name is Jebel Fukuali, 
and the highest point is crowned by a village and wely 
called Wezar (Porter, Hand-book, p. 353). — Kitto, s. v. 

Gildas the Wise, the first British historian, was 
born in the year 511 (according to Bede, 493), became 
scholar to lltutns, abbot of Morgan, and was made 
afterwards abbot of Bangor. The time of his death is 
uncertain. The legendary accounts of him differ so 
much that Bale and Usher suppose there were two of 
the same name, while others doubt the existence of 
any such person. “In truth, as Mr. Stevenson ob- 
serves, in his introduction to the Latin text of Gildas 
de Excidio Britannuc : ‘We are unable to speak with 
certainty as to the parentage of Gildas, his country, or 
even his name, the period when he lived, or the works 
of which he was the author.’ Mr. T. Wright attempts 
to show that Gildas is a fabulous person, and his his- 
tory the forgery of ‘some Anglo-Saxon or foreign 
priest of the 7th century’ ( Biog . Brit. Lit. Anglo-Sax- 
on period, p. 115-134). But Stevenson, Lappenberg, 
and others, while admitting the fabulous character of 
the common accounts, are inclined to believe that Gil- 
das really lived somewhere near the time usually 
stated” (English Cyclop, s. v.). The writings which 
pass under his name are valuable for their antiquity, 
and as containing the only information we have of the 
times in which he Wrote ; although Gibbon describes 
him as “a monk who, in the profound ignorance of hu- 
man life, has presumed to exercise the office of histori- 
an, and strangely disfigures the state of Britain at the 
time of its separation from the Roman empire.” They 
are, (1) Liber Quendus de excidio Britannia, etc., a 
picture of the evils of the times and of the previous 
ages of British history : — (2) Castiyatio Ordin. Eccles. 
(Reproach on the Clergy), a sad account of abomina- 
tions and vices imputed to the clergy. They are given 
in Gale’s Ilist. Brit.., etc., Scriplores xv (Oxon. 1G91, 
fol.), and in the 1 For As of Gildas and Nonnius, trans- 
lated by J. A. Giles (Lond. 1841, 8 vo) ; also in Gale, Re- 
rum Angl. Script. Ve teres (1G84-87, 3 vols. fol.) ; but the 
best edition is that published in 1838 by the Historical 
Society, and edited by Mr. Joseph Stavenson. There 
are three English translations of it : one by Ilabing- 
ton (Lond. 1G38, 8vo); another, entitled a. Description 
of the State of Great Britain , written eleven hundred 
genres since (London, 1G52, 12mo) ; and a third by Dr. 
Giles, but based on that of Habington, and published 
in Bolin's Antiquarian Library (1848). See Wright, 
l.o.; Poste, British Researches’, English Cyclopccdia; 
Clarke, Sure, of Sacred Literature, vol. i. 

Gilder, William H., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was horn in Philadelphia Sept. 17, 
1812, and was educated at the Wesleyan University, 
lie entered the Philadelphia Conference in 1833, and 
after three years’ preaching was compelled by ill health 
to retire from active service. About 1840 he estab- 
lished at Philadelphia the Pearl and Repository , an in- 
dependent Methodist paper. For some years he was 
principal of the Female Institute at Bordentown, N. J. 
He afterwards became president of Flushing Female 
College, at St. Thomas’s Hall, Flushing, L. I. While 


GILEAD 


SGG 


GILEAD 


at Bordentown he established the Literary Register , 
which he edited for several years. In 18G2 he became 
chaplain of the 40th New- York. Regiment, and shared 
in all its campaigns, following his charge into every 
battle. In 1863 he was taken with typhoid fever, 
which greatly impaired his strength. He returned to 
his post before he was in fit physical condition to do 
so, and, while attending to his duties in the regiment- 
al hospital, he contracted small-pox, of which be died 
at Culpepper, Va., April 13, 1864. No chaplain in the 
army had a stronger hold upon the affection and con- 
fidence of the men than Mr. Gilder. Shortly before 
his death he said to his son, “ I am in the hands of one 
whom I can trust ; I feel that I am perfectly safe 
and when he could no longer speak, he intimated by 
signs that all was well. — Minutes of Conferences , 186.6, 

p. 81. 

Gil'ead (TIeb. Gilad ', generally with the 

article prefixed, when applied to the region or moun- 
tain; properl}’’ a stony district, hence, according to 
Gen. xxxi, 41, heap or hill of testimony ; Sept. FaAa- 
«£), the name of several men, also of a region and 
mountain, and perhaps a city. The name Gilead, as is 
usual in Palestine, describes the physical aspect of the 
country. It signifies “a hard, rocky region;” and it 
may be regarded as standing in contrast with Bashan, 
the other great trans- Jordan ic province, which is, as 
the name implies, a “ level, fertile tract.” The state- 
ments in Gen. xxxi, 48, are not opposed to this ety- 
mology. The old name of the district was (Gil- 
ead), but, by a slight change in the pronunciation, the 
radical letters being retained, the meaning was made 
beautifully applicable to the “heap of stones” Jacob 
and Laban had built up — “and Laban said, this heap 
(5|0 is a witness O^*) between me and thee this day. 
Therefore was the name of it called Gal-eecl ” ?*, 

“the heap of witness”). Those acquainted with the 
modern Arabs and their literature will see how in- 
tensely such a play upon the word would be apprecia- 
ted by them. This Galecd could not have been far 
from Mahanaim, and was doubtless one of those round- 
ed eminences to the northward which overlook the 
broad plateau of Bashan (Gen. xxxi, 25; xxxii, 1, 2). 
See Galeed. 

1. A mountainous region east of the Jordan ; bound- 
ed on the north by Bashan, on the east by the Arabian 
plateau, and on the south by Moab and Ammon (Gen. 
xxxi, 21 ; Dent, iii, 12-17), properly extending from 
the parallel of Rabboth-Ammon on the south to the 
river Hieromax on the north. The same name, how- 
ever, was given to the ridge extending between these 
parallels. With the exception of the narrow strip of 
plain along the bank of the Jordan, the mountains, in 
fact, cover the whole region; hence it is sometimes 
called “Mount Gilead” (Gen. xxxi, 25), ; 

comp. Dcut. iii, 12 ; Jer. 1, 19), sometimes “ the land of 
Gilead” (Numb, xxxii, 1, "W25 compare Dent, 

xxxiv, 1 ; Numb, xxxiv, 29 : Zeeh. x, 10), and some- 
times simply “Gilead” (Psa. lx, 7 ; Gen. xxxvii, 25; 
Numb, xxxii, 40; Josh, xvii, 1; Amos i, 3); but a 
comparison of the several passages shows that they 
all mean the same thing. There is no evidence, in 
fact, that any particular mountain was meant by 
Mount Gilead more than by Mount Lebanon (Judg. iii, 
3) — they both comprehend the whole range, and the 
range of Gilead embraced the whole province, or group 
of mountains vaguely stated by Eusebius ( Onomast . s. 
v. VaXaeic) to be connected with Lebanon by means 
of Mount Hermon. It begins not far from the latter, 
and extends southward to the sources of the brooks 
Jabbok and Arnon, thus enclosing the whole eastern 
part of the land beyond the Jordan (Gen. •xxxi, 21 ; 
Cant, iv, 1). According to, Michaelis (J fos. Recht , i, 
8G), this mountain, which gave its name to the coun- 
try so called, must even be situated beyond the region 


sketched in our maps, and somewhere about the Eu- 
phrates. But this is fanciful. Strictly, the name 
comprehends the mountainous region south of thetiver 
Jabbok, where is the highest part of the mountains 
east of the Jordan ; and one ridge is still named Jebel 
Jelad or Jelud , from the ruined towns so called upon 
it (Burckhardt, Travels in Syria, p. 348; Robinson’s 
Researches , ii, 243, 306; App. p. 167). The inhabit- 
ants were called Gileadites (Judg. x, 3 ; 2 Kings xv, 
25). 

I. Divisions of the Territory. — (a.) Gilead is usually, 
therefore, the name of a large district beyond the Jor- 
dan, continually mentioned in the Scriptures in con- 
tradistinction to, or apart from, Bashan (l)eut. iii, 13; 
Josh, xii, 5 ; xiii, 11 ; xvii, 1 ; 2 Kings x, 33; 1 Cliron. 
v, 16; Micahvii, 14); though, to judge from its geo- 
graphical position (as given Numb, xxxii, 26; Dent, 
iii, 12), it must have comprised the entire possessions 
of the two tribes of Gad and Reuben, and even the 
southern part of Manasseh (Dent, iii, 13 ; Numb, xxxii, 
40; Josh, xvii, 2-6) ; corresponding to the region now 
called el-Beka and Jebel-Ajlun. Sometimes it is put 
for the territory of Gad and Reuben alone (Psa. lx, 9 ; 
cvlii, 9); at others for the tribe of Gad only (Judg. v, 
17 ; comp, v, 16), although this usage is not constant, 
and in 1 Sam. xiii, 7, the land of Gad and Gilead are 
joined. The cities Ramoth, Jabesh, and Jazer are 
usually designated as lying in Gilead. 

There is a special descriptive term, which may al- 
most be regarded as a proper name, used to denote the 
great plateau which borders Gilead on the south and 
east. The refuge-city Bezel* is said to be “in the 
country of the Mishor” (Dent, iv, 43); and Jeremiah 
(xlviii,21) says, “judgment is come upon the country 
of the Mishor” (see also Josh, xiii, 9, 16. 17, 21 ; xx, 8). 
Mislior (f] and Tw*£) signifies a “level plain” or 
“table-land;” and no word*could be more applicable. 
This is one among many examples of the minute ac- 
curacy of Bible topography. See Mishor. 

The extent of Gilead in this general sense we can 
ascertain with tolerable exactness from incidental no- 
tices in the Holy Scriptures. The Jordan was its west- 
ern border (1 Sam. xiii, 7 ; 2 Kings x, 33). A compar- 
ison of a number of passages shows that the river 
Hieromax, the modern Shcriat el-Mandliur, separated 
it from Bashan on the north. “Half Gilead” is said 
to have been po?|essed by Silion, king of the Amorites, 
and the other half by Og, king of Bashan ; and the 
river Jabbok was the division between the two king- 
doms (Dent, iii, 12; Josh, xii, 1-5). The half of Gil- 
ead possessed by Og must therefore have been north 
of the Jabbok. It is also stated that the territory of 
the tribe of Gad extended along the Jordan valley to 
the Sea of Galilee (Josh, xiii, 27); and yet “ all Ba- 
slian” was given to Manasseh (ver. 30). We therefore 
conclude that the deep glen of the Hieromax, which 
runs eastward, on the parallel of the south end of the 
Sea of Galilee, was the dividing line between Bashan 
and Gilead. Nortli of that glen stretches out a tint, 
fertile plateau, such as the name Bashan (‘,'1*2, like 
the Arabic bashah, signifies “soft and level soil”) would 
suggest; while on the south we have the rough and 
rugged, yet picturesque hill country, for which Gilead 
is the fit name. (See Porter, in Journal of Sac. Lit. 
July, 1854, p. 284 sq. ; compare lb. Jan. 1852, p. 364.) 
On the east the mountain range melts away gradually 
into the high plateau of Arabia. Tbe boundary of 
Gilead is here not so clearly defined, but it may lie re- 
garded as running along t lie foot of the range. The 
southern boundary is less certain. The tribe of Reu- 
ben occupied the country as far south as the river Ar- 
non, which was the border of Moab (Dent, ii, 36; iii, 
12). It seems, -however, that the southern section of 
their territory was not included in Gilead. In Josh, 
xiii, 9-11, it is intimated that the “plain of Medeba” 
(“the Mishor” it is called), north of the Arnon, is not 


GILEAD 


807 


GILEAD 


in Gilead ; and when speaking of the cities of refuge, 
Moses describes Bezel*, which was given out of the 
tribe of Reuben, as being “in the wilderness, in the 
plain count ry” (i. e. 44 in the country of the J lishorf 
■j’HN), while Kamoth is said to be in Gilead 
(Deut. iv, 4:3). This southern plateau was also called 
“the land of Jazer” (Xnmb. xxxii, 1; 2 Sam. xxiv, 
5 ; eomp. also Josh, xiii, 10-25). The valley of Ilesli- 
bon may therefore, in all probability, be the southern 
bounda y of Gilead. Gilead thus extended from the 
parallel of the south end of the Sea of Galilee to that 
of the north end of the Dead Sea — about GO miles ; and 
its average breadth scarcely exceeded 20. 

(6.) While such were the usual limits of Gilead, the 
name is used in a wider sense in two or three parts of 
Scripture. Moses, for example, is said to have seen, 
from the top of Pisgah, “all the land of Gilead unto 
Dan” (Deut. xxxiv, 1) ; and in Judg. xx, 1, and Josh. 
xxii,0, the name seems to comprehend the whole ter- 
ritory of the Israelites beyond the Jordan. A little 
attention shows that this is only a vague way of speak- 
ing, in common use everywhere. 

(c.) The district corresponding to Gilead is now di- 
vided into two provinces, separated by the Jabbok. 
The section lying between the Jabkok and the Hiero- 
max is now called Jebel .1 jinn ; while that to the south 
of the Jabbok constitutes the modern province of Bel- 
ka. One of the most conspicuous peaks in the moun- 
tain range still retains the ancient name, being called 
Jebel Jil'ad , “ Mount Gilead.” It is about seven miles 
south of the Jabbok, and commands a magnificent view 
over the whole Jordan valley, and the mountains of 
Judah and Ephraim. It is probably the site of Ra- 
math-Mizpeh of Josh, xiii, 2G; ttud the “Mizpeh of 
Gilead,” from which Jephtbali “passed over unto the 
children of Ammon” (Judg. xi, 2d). The spot is ad- 
mirably adapted for a gathering-place in time of inva- 
sion or aggressive war. The neighboring village of 
es-Salt occupies the site of the old “city of refuge” in 
Gad, Ramoth-Gilead (q. v.). 

II. History. — The first notice we have of Gilead is 
in connection with the history of Jacob (Gen. xxxi, 21 
sq.). That patriarch, having passed the Euphrates, 
“set his faee towards Mount Gilead ;” he struck across 
the desert by the great fountain at Palmyra ; then 
traversed the eastern part of the plain of Damascus, 
and the plateau of Bashan, and entered Gilead from 
the north-east. “In the Mount Gilead Laban over- 
took him” — apparently soon after he entered the dis- 
trict; for when they separated again, Jacob went on 
his way and arrived at Mahanaim, which must have 
been considerably north of the river Jabbok (Gen. 
xxxii, 1, 2, 22). See Jacob. 

Gilead is not mentioned again in the patriarchal his- 
tory ; but it is possibly this same region which is refer- 
red to under the name Ham (q. v.), and was inhabited 
by the gigantic Zuzim. The kings of the East who came 
to punish the rebellious “cities of the plain,” first at- 
tacked the Eephaim in Asliteroth Karnaim — i. e. in 
the country now called Haurdn ; then they advanced 
southwards against the “ Zuzims in Ham and next 
against the Emim in Shaveh-Kiriathim, which was 
subsequently possessed by the Moabites (Gen. xiv, 5; 
Deut. ii, 9 19). SeeE.um; Repiiaim. 

AVe hear nothing more of Gilead till the invasion of 
the country by the Israelites. One half of it was then 
in the hands of Sihon, king of the Amorites, who had 
a short time previously driven out the Moabites. Og, 
king of Bashan, had the other section north of the Jab- 
bok. The Israelites defeated the former at Jahaz, ami 
the latter at Edrei, and took possession of Gilead and 
Bashan (Numb, xxi, 23 sq.). The rich pasture-land 
of Gilead, with its shady forests and copious streams, 
attracted the attention of Reuben and Gad, who “ had 
a Yen'- great multitude of eattle,” and was allotted to 
them. Tiie future history and habits of the tribes that 
occupied Gilead were greatly affected bj^ the character 


of the country. Rich in flocks and herds, and now 
the lords of a fitting region, they retained, almost un- 
changed, the nomad pastoral habits of their patriarchal 
ancestors. Like all Bedawin,they lived in a constant 
state of warfare, just as Jacob had predicted of Gad — 
“ a troop shall plunder him, but he shall plunder at the 
last” (Gen. xlix, 19). The sons of Ishmael were sub- 
dued and plundered in the time of Saul (1 Chron. v, 9 
sq.), and the children of Ammon in the clays of Jeph- 
tiiah and David (Judg. xi, 32 sq. ; 2 Sam. x, 12 sq.). 
Their wandering tent life, and their almost inaccessi- 
ble country, made them in ancient times what the Bed- 
awi tribes are now — the protectors of the refugee and 
the outlaw. In Gilead the sons of Saul found a home 
while they vainly attempted to re-establish the author- 
ity of their house (2 Sam. ii, 8 sq.). Here, too, David 
found a sanctuary during the unnatural rebellion of a 
beloved son ; and the surrounding tribes, with a char- 
acteristic hospitality, carried presents of the best they 
possessed to the fallen monarch (2 Sam. xvii,22 sq.). 
Elijah the Tishbite was a Gileadite (1 Kings xvii, 1); 
and in his simple garb, wild aspect, abrupt address, 
wonderfully active habits, and movements so rapid as 
to evade the search of his watchful and bitter foes, we 
see all the characteristics of the genuine Bedawi, en- 
nobled by a high prophetic mission. See Gad. 

Gilead was a frontier land, exposed to the first at- 
taeks of the Syrian and Assyrian invaders, and to the 
unceasing raids of the desert tribes — “Because Machir, 
the first-born of Manasseh, was a man of war, there- 
fore he had Bashan and Gilead” (Josh, xvii, 1). Un- 
der the wild and wayward Jephtbali, Mizpeh of Gilead 
became the gathering-place of the trans-Jordanie tribes 
(Judg. xi, 29); and in subsequent times the neighbor- 
ing stronghold of Ramoth-Gilead appears to have been 
considered the key of Palestine on the east (1 Kings 
xxii, 3, 4, G ; 2 Kings viii, 28 ; ix, 1). 

The name Galaad (TaKadv') occurs several times in 
the history of the Maccabees (1 Maec. v, 9 sq.), and 
also in Josephus, but generally with the Greek termi- 
nation — VaXaacd-ir or VaXactp'ij (Ant. xiii, 14, 2; 11 r ar, 
i, 4, 3). Under the Roman dominion the country be- 
came more settled and civilized; and the great cities 
of Gadara, Pella, and Gerasa, with Philadelphia on its 
south-eastern border, speedily rose to opulence and 
splendor. In one of these (Pella) the Christians of 
Jerusalem found a sanctuary when the armies of Titus 
gathered round the devoted city (Eusebius, II. E. iii, 
5). Under Mohammedan rule the country has again 
lapsed into semi-barbarism. Some scattered villages 
amid the fastnesses of Jebel Ajlun, and a few fierce 
wandering tribes, constitute the whole population cf 
Gilead. They are nominally subject to the Porte, but 
their allegiance sits lightly upon them. The inhabi- 
tants, like the old Gadites, are semi-nomads, whose 
wealth consists in flocks and herds. Like them, too, 
they are harassed by the desert tribes ; they are inured 
to arms, and they are noted for their hospitality. The 
capital of the whole country is es-Salt (Bureldmrdt, 
Tran, in Syria , p. 270; Buckingham, Arab Tribes , p. 
21 sq. ; Lord Lindsay’s Travels , ii, 108 sq.). 

III. Description of modern Country. — The great body 
of the range of Gilead is Jura limestone, but there are 
occasional veins of sandstone. The oak and the tere- 
binth flourish on the former, and the pine on the lat- 
ter. The mountains of Gilead have a real elevation 
of from two to three thousand feet, but their apparent 
elevation on the western side is much greater, owing 
to the depression of the Jordan valley, which averages 
about 1000 feet. Their outline is singularly uniform, 
resembling a massive wall running along the horizon. 
From the distant east they seem very low, for on that 
side they meet the plateau of Arabia, 2000 feet or more 
in height. Though the range appears bleak from the 
distance, yet, on ascending it, we find the scenery 
rich, picturesque, and in places even grand. The sum- 
mit is broad, almost like table-land “tossed into wild 


GILEAD 


868 


GILEAD 


confusion of undulating downs” (Stanley, Sinai and 
Pal. p. 314). It is everywhere covered with luxuriant i 
herbage. In the extreme north and south there are 
no trees, but as we advance towards the centre they 
soon begin to appear, at lirst singly, then in groups, 
and at length, on each side of the Jabbok, in fine for- 
ests, chiefly of prickly oak and terebinth. The rich 
pasture-land of Gilead presents a striking contrast to j 
the nakedness of Western Palestine. Except among 
the hills of Galilee and along the heights of Carmel 
there is nothing to be compared with it as “a place [ 
for cattle” (Numb, xxxii, 1). “In passing through 
the country, one can hardly get over the impression 
that he is roaming through an English park. The 
graceful hills, the rich vales, the luxuriant herbage, J 
the bright wild flowers, the plantations of evergreen 
oak, pine, and arbutus; now a tangled thicket, and 
now a grove scattered over the gentle slope, as if in- 
tended to reveal its beauty; the little rivulets fringed 
with oleander, at one place running lazily between al- 
luvial banks, at another dashing madly down rocky 
ravines. Such are the features of the mountains of 
Gilead. Here, too, we have the cooing of the wood- 
pigeon, the hoarse call of the partridge, the incessant 
limn of myriads of insects, and the cheerful chirp of 
grasshoppers to give life to the scene. Add to all the 
crumbling ruins of town, village, and fortress, cling- 
ing to the mountain-side or crowning its summit, and 
you have a picture of the country between es-Salt and 
Gerasa”*(Portei\ Handbook for S. and P. p. 310). Such 
a picture, too, illustrates at once the fertility ascribed 
to it by Jeremiah (xxii, 6; 1, 10), and the judgments 
pronounced against it by Amos (i, 3, 13). 

Gilead anciently abounded in spices and aromatic 
gums, which were exported to Egypt (Gen. xxxvii, 
25 ; Jer. viii, 22 ; xlvi, 11). The balm of Gilead seems 
to have been valued for its medicinal properties from 
the earliest, times. The Midinnitish merchants to 
whom Joseph was sold were passing through the val- 
ley of Jezrcel on their way from Gilead to Egypt 
(Gen. xxxvii, 17). Josephus often mentions this halm 
or balsam, but generally as the product of the rich 
plain of Jericho, for example (Ant. xiv, 4): “Now 
when Pompey had pitched his camp at Jericho (where 
the palm-tree grows, and that balsam which is an oint- 
ment of all the most precious, which upon any incision 
being made in the wood with a sharp stone distils out 
thence like a juice), he marched in the morning to Je- 
rusalem.” I)r. Thomson found in the plain of Jericho 
some thorn-bushes called the zukum , “which is like 
the crab apple-tree, and hears a small nut, from which 
a kind of liquid balsam is made, and sold by the monks 
as balm of Gilead, so famous in ancient times,” and he 
supposes “that the halm which Jacob sent to Joseph 
(Gen. xlvii, 11), and that which Jeremiah (viii, 22) re- 
fers to for its medicinal qualities, were the same which | 
the trading Ishmaclites were transporting to Egypt, 
and that it was some resinous extract from the forest 
trees of Gilead” (Land and Boole, ii, 103, 194). — Smith, 
s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. ; l'airbairn, s. v. See below. 

01 LEAD, Balm of. Our English word balm, and 
its French equivalent baume , arc the contracted forms 
of balsam, a word (fiuXaap on) which the Greeks have 
adopted from the Hebrew words 5V2 and lord 

or chief of oils. In ordinary language the word is 
used very loosely, hut here we are only concerned 
with the substmcc to which the English translation 
of the Bible has given this name. As early as the 
days of Jacob the district of Gilead yielded aromatic 
substances which were in great request. After cast- 
ing Joseph into a pit, we arc told that his brothers 
espied a caravan on its way from Gilead, to Egypt, 
“with their camels bearing spicery, and balm, and 
myrrh” (Gen. xxxvii, 25)7 Afterwards, when Jacob 
dispatched his embassy into Egypt, bis present to the 
unknown ruler included “a little balm” (Gen. xliii, 


11) ; and at an interval of more than 1000 years late! 
we lind that the same region was celebrated Jor the 
same production, for we find Jeremiah asking, “Is 
there no balm in Gilead?” and from an expression in 
the prophet Ezekiel we find still later that balm was 
one of the commodities which Hebrew merchants car- 
ried to the market of Tyre (Ezek. xxvii, 17). In all 
these passages the original word is “’“II, tsori'. Dur- 
ing the interval, however, between Jacob and Jeremi- 
ah, we are told by Josephus that the queen of Sheba 
brought “the root of the balsam” as a present to Solo- 
mon (.l»L viii, G, G) ; and there can he no doubt that, 
in tiie later days of Jewish history, the neighborhood 
of Jericho was believed to be the only spot where the 
true balsam grew, and even there its culture was con- 
fined to two gardens, the one twenty acres in extent, 
the other much smaller (Theophrastus). 

Many attempts have been made by different writers 
to identify the tsori, not one of which, however, can 
be considered altogether conclusive. The Syriac ver- 
sion in Jer. viii, 22, and the Samaritan in Gen. xxxvii, 
25, suppose cera, “wax,” to be meant; others, as the 
Arabic version in the passages cited in Genesis, con- 
jecture theriaca, a medical compound of great sup- 
posed virtue in serpent bites. Of the same opinion is 
Castell (Lex. llept. s. v. ■’“IS). Luther and the Swed- 
ish version have “salve,” “ointment,” in the passa- 
ges in Jeremiah; but in Ezek. xxvii, 17 the)* read 
“mastic.” The Jewish Babbis, Junius and Tremel- 
lius, Deodatius, etc., have “balm” or “balsam,” as 
the A. V. ; Celsius (ffierob. ii, 180) identifies the tsori 
with the mastic-tree (Pistacia leniiscus'). EosenmUl- 
ler (Bill. Bot. p. 1G9) believes that the pressed juice 
of the fruit of the zukum-tree (Elaagnus avr/ustifolius , 

| Lin. [?]), or narrow-leaved oleaster, is the substance 
denoted; but the same author, in another place (Schol. 
in Gen. xxxvii, 25), mentions the balsam of Mecca 
(Amyris opobalsamum, Lin.), referred to by Strabo 
(xvi, p. 778) and Diodorus Siculus (ii, 132) as being 
probably the tsori (see Kitto, Phys. Hist, of Pal. p. 273 ; 
Hassclquist, Travels, p. 203). 

Hasselquist has given a description of the true bal- 
sam-tree of Mecca. He says that the exudation from 
the plant “is of a yellow color, and pellucid. It lias a 
most fragrant smell, which is resinous, balsamic, and 
very agreeable. It is very tenacious or glutinous, 
sticking to the fingers, and may be drawn into long 
threads. I have seen it at a Turkish surgeon’s, who 
had it immediately from Mecca, described it, and was 
informed of its virtues; which are, first, that it is the 
best stomachic they know, if taken to three grains, to 
strengthen a weak stomach; secondly, that it is a 
most excellent and capital remedy for curing wounds, 
for if a few drops are applied to the fresh wound it 
cures it in a very short time” (Travels, p. 203). 

The trees which certainly appear to have the best 
claim for representing the scriptural tsori — supposing, 
that is, that any one particular tree is denoted by the 
term — are the Pistacia lentisens (mastic) and the Amy- 
ris opobalsamum, Linnams, the Balsamodendron opo- 
balsamum, or Gileadense of modern botanists (Balm of 
Gilead). One argument in favor of t lie first-named 
tree rests upon the fact that its name in Arabic (dserz, 
dse?'ui) is identical with the Hebrew; and the Arabian 
naturalists have attributed great medicinal virtues to 
the resin afforded by this tree (Dioseorides, i, 00, 91; 
Pliny, xxiv, 7 ; Avicenna, edit. Arab. p. 204 and 277, 
in Celsius). The Pistacia lentiscus has been recorded 
to occur at Joppa both hv Ihiuwolf and Pococke 
(Strand. Flor. Palcesf. No. 5G1). The derivation of the 
word from a root, “to flow forth,” is opposed to the 
theory which identifies the pressed oil of the zukum 
with the tsori , although this oil is in very high esteem 
among the Arabs, who even prefer it to the halm of 
Mecca, as being more efficacious in wounds and bruises 
(see Mariti, ii, 353, ed. London). Maundrell (Journey 


GILEAD 


SG9 


GILEADITE 


from Alep, to Jerus. p. 86), when near the Bead Sea, 
saw the zukum- tree. He says it is a thorny bush with 
small leaves, and that “the fruit, both in shape and 
color, resembles a small unripe walnut. The kernels 
of this fruit the Arabs bray in a mortar, and then, put- 
ting the pulp into scalding water, they skim off the 
oyl which rises to the top: this oyl they take inward- 
ly for bruises, and apply it outwardly to green wounds. 
... I proenred a bottle of it, and have found it upon 
some small tryals a very healing medicine.” “This,” 
says Dr. Robinson (B'b. Res. ii, 291), “is the modern 
balsam or oil of Jericho.” From Maundrell’s descrip- 
tion of the zukum Dr. Hooker unhesitatingly identi- 
fies it with Balanites AUgyptiaca, which he saw abun- 
dant^ at Jericho ( Kew Garden Misc. i, 257). 

In the region of Gilead, the only production now 
which has any affinity to balm or balsam is a species 
of Elaeagnus, from the kernels of which a balsamic oil 
is extracted (Journal of Deputation of Malta Protestant 
College, p. 406) ; and even the balsam gardens of Jeri- 
cho have perished and left no trace. There is little 
reason, however, to doubt that the plants with which 
they were stocked were the A mgr is Gileadensis , or .1. 
opobalsamum, which was found by 1 5 ruce in Abyssinia, 
the fragrant resin of which is knowrn in commerce as 
the “balsam of Mecca.” Like most plants yielding I 
gum or gum-resin, the amyris requires a high temper- 
ature to elaborate its peculiar principle in perfection ; 
and in the deeply depressed and sultry valley of the 
Jordan it would find a climate almost as congenial as 
that of Yemen, where we find it now. Nor is it im- 
possible that there may have existed in Gilead at an 
early period a plantation of the self-same amyris; but, I 
yielding to the superior qualities of the queen of She- 
ba’s newly-imported specimens, the grow th of Gilead J 
may have become obsolete, and bequeathed its name 
and honors to its more favored rival. The Amyris 
Gileadensis is an evergreen shrub or tree, belonging to ! 
the natural order Amyridaceoe. Its height is about 
fourteen feet, with a trunk eight or ten inches in di- 
ameter. The wood is light and open, and the small 



and scanty leaves resemble rice. After the dog-davs 
when the circulation of the sap is most vigorous, in- 
cisions are made into the bark, and the balsam is re- 
ceived in small earthen bottles. The supply is very 
scanty. Three or four drops exude in a day through 
a single orifice, and the entire amount yielded by the 
gardens of Jericho did not exceed six or seven gallons 
a year. When first exuded the balsam is of a w hitish 
tinge, inclining to yellow, and somewhat turbid, and 
its odor is almost as pungent as volatile salts ; but, af- 


ter standing some time, it becomes pellucid, and deep., 
ens to an almost golden color. With its geni-like ap- 
pearance, its aromatic odor, audits great rarity — being 
worth twice its weight in silver — it has always been 
highly valued in the East as a remedy. It is consid- 
ered very efficacious in the cure of wounds, and the 
Egyptians esteem it as a preventive of the plague. As 
a vulnerary it appears to have been valued in the days 
i of Jeremiah (ch. viii, 22) ; and, could it be procured as 
easily as the balsams of Pern and Tolu, it is likely that 
it would find a place in European pharmacy. In de- 
scribing Palestine, Tacitus says that in all its produc- 
tions it equals Italy, besides possessing the palm and 
the balsam (Ilist. v, 6); and the far-famed tree excited 
the cupidity of successive invaders. By Pompey it 
was exhibited in the streets of Rome as one of the 
spoils of the newly-conquered province, B.C. 65; and 
one of the w’onderful trees graced the triumph of Ves- 
pasian, A.D. 79. During the invasion of Titus, tw r o 
battles took place at the balsam groves of Jericho, the 
! last being to prevent the Jews in their despairing fren- 
I zy from destroying the trees. They then became pub- 
lic property, and were placed under tbe protection of 
| an imperial guard; but history does not record how 
long the two plantations survived. — Smith, s. v. ; Fair- 
bairn, s. v. Balm. See Balm. 

2. Possibly the name of a mountain w'est of the Jor- 

dan, near Jezreel (Judg. vii, 3). Michaelis and others 
are inclined to agree with the suggestion of Clericns 
(ad loc.), that the true reading in this place should be 
?*£3a, Gilboa , instead of Gideon w’as encamped 

at the “spring of llarod,” which is at the base of 
Mount Gilboa. Gesenius, however, thinks ( Thesaur . 
Ileb. p. 804) that the passage merely implies that all 
those who should not feel inclined to prosecute the war 
against the Midianites farther than the mountain from 
which the latter had emerged, were at liberty to return 
home ("in'?, 11 per montem"). A better solution, how- 
ever, is that suggested by Schwarz (Palest, p. 164, note), 
that the northernmost spur of Mt. Gilboa w T as also call- 
ed Gilead; and this is confirmed by the actual exist- 
ence of the name Jalud to this day in this spot. See 
IIarod. 

3. A city of this name is apparently mentioned IIos. 
vi, 8 (comp. Sept. Judg. xii, 7) ; so, at least, it is given 
in most of the ancient and modern versions, though 
the meaning may only be that Gilead is (like) a city 
full of iniquity, i. e. a union of iniquitous people. This 
city (if one be meant) is perhaps the same w'ith Ra- 
moth-Gilead. 

4. The son of Machir (apparently by Maachah), and 
grandson of Manasseli ; his descendants bore his name 
as a patronymic (Numb, xxvi, 29, 30). B.C. prob. be- 
tween 1874 and 1658. 

5. The father of Jephtliah the judge, a descendant 
of the above (Judg. xi, 1, 2). B.C. ante 1256. It is 
not clear, however (comp. ver. 7, 8), whether this Gil- 
ead was an individual, or a personification of the com- 
munity. 

6. The son of Jaroah, and father of Michael, of the 
tribe of Gad (1 Chron. v, 14). B.C. considerably ante 
781. 

Gil'eadite (Hebrew prop. Gilad'i , 5 Sept, 

r aXaaci or VaXaadtTijQ: but often the same as Gilead 
simply), a descendant of one of the men, or an inhabi- 
tant of the region called Gilead (Numb, xxvi, 29; 
Judg. x, 3; xi,l,40; xii, 7 ; 2 Sam. xvii, 27 ; xix,31; 

1 Kings ii, 7 ; 2 Kings xv, 25 ; Ezra ii, 61 ; Neb. vii, 
63), or perhaps rather a branch of the tribe of Manas- 
seh, descended from Gilead. There appears to have 
been an old standing feud between them and the 
Ephraimites, who taunted them ivith being deserters. 
See Judg. xii, 4, which may be rendered, “And the 
men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Run- 
agates of Ephraim are ye (Gilead is between Ephraim 
and Manasseh).” — Smith, s. v. 


GILGAL 


GILGAL 


S 1 

Giles, St. (Eat. PEgidius ; Fr. Gilles ; Span. Gib), 
patron saint of woodlands, also of Edinburgh. '1 he 
Roman Catholic Church has set apart Sept. 1 for the 
commemoration of a saint of this name, though it is 
doubtful whether such a person ever lived. The ha- 
giographers describe two such persons : the first an 
Athenian of the Gth century, who wrought various mir- 
acles, and finally took up his abode in a cave near the 
mouth of the Rhone, living upon the milk of a hind, 
and upon herbs and fruits. The king’s hunters once 
wounded the hind, and the arrow also passed through 
the hand of St. Giles (whose attribute, in legendary 
art. is a wounded hind). He died in his cave, and tin 
noble monastery of St. Giles was erected near the spot. 
The other claimant to the name of St. Giles was abbot ! 
of a monastery near Arles in the Gth century. The 
first legend, as the more striking and poetical one, is 
naturally the most popular. St. Giles has been espe- 
cially venerated in England and Scotland. In spite 
of the Reformation, the name of this legendary saint 
is still retained in the English calendar. — A. Butler, 
Lives of Saints, Sept. 1 ; Mrs. Jamieson, Legends of the 
Monastic Orders , p. 28. 

Gil'gal (Heb. Gilgai’ , bah, a irheel, as in Isa. 
xxviii, 28; according to Josh, v, 9, a rolling away; 
with the article a prop, name, Sept, rd FaXyaXer, but 
FoXyoX v. r. ToXyoX in Dent, xi, 20 and Josh, xiv, G), 
the name of at least two places in Palestine. 

1. The site of the first camp of the Israelites on the 
west of the Jordan, the place at which they passed the 
first night after crossing the river, and where the 
twelve stones were set up which had been taken from 
the bed of the stream (Josh, iv, 19, 20; comp. 3) [see 



Pruidical Circle of (memorial) Stones. 


Stoxe] ; where also they kept their first passover in 
the land of Canaan (v, io). It was in the “end of 
the east of Jericho” (^ PTES ; A. V. “in the 

east border of Jericho’’), apparently on a hillock or 
rising ground (v, 3 ; compare 9) in the Arboth-Jericho 
(A.V. “the plains”), that is, the hot, depressed dis- 
trict of the Ghor which lay between the town and the 
Jordan (v, 10). Here the Israelites who had been born 
on the inarch through the wilderness were circum- 
cised, an occurrence from which the sacred historian 
derives the name: “‘This day 1 have rolled away 
(j rjaVo'thi ) the reproach of Egypt from off you.’ There- 
fore the name of the place is called Gilgai to this day.” 
The meaning does not seem to be that a new name 
was given, but rather that a new meaning and signif- 
icance were attached to the old name. The word Gil- 
gai means a “ circle,” and also a “rolling away.” A 
similar play upon a word was noticed in the case of 
Gii.i:ai>; and Bethel is an example of an old name 
having attached to it a new significance (Gen. xxviii, 
19; xxxv, 15). By Josephus {Ant. v, 1, 11) it is said 
to signify “freedom” {iXtotUino r). It would appear 
that Gilgai was the name of the place before the Exo- 
dus, for Moses describes the Canaanitcs aS dwelling 
“over against Gilgai” (l)cut. xi, SO). The difficulties 
connected with this passage have already been ex- 
plained under Eual. Keil supposes that this Gil- 


0 

gal was near Shechcm {Comm, on Josh . p. 219, 232). 
The camp thus established at Gilgai remained there 
during the early part of the conquest (Josh, ix, G; x, 
6, 7, 9,15, 43); and we may probably infer 'from one 
narrative that Joshua retired thither at the conclusion 
of his labors (xiv, 6 ; comp. 15). Saul, when driven 
from the highlands by the I’hilistines, collected his 
feeble force at the site of the old cam]) (1 Sam. xiii, 4, 
7). The tabernacle appears to have remained there at 
least until its removal to Shiloh (Judg. xviii, 1). It 
was one of the places to which Samuel regularly re- 
sorted, where he administered justice (1 Sam. vii, 1G), 
and where burnt-offerings and peace-offerings were 
accustomed to be offered “before Jehovah” (x, 8; xi, 
15 ; xiii, 8, 9 12 ; xv, 21) ; and on one occasion a sac- 
rifice of a more terrible description than either (xv, 
33). The air of the narrative all through leads to the 
conclusion that at the time of these occurrences it was 
the chief sanctuary of the central portion of the nation 
(see x, 8; xi, 14; xv, 12, 21). But there is no sign 
of its being a town ; no mention of building, or of its 
being allotted to the priests or Levitcs, as was the 
case with other sacred towns, Bethel, Shechem, etc. 
In the history of David’s return to Jerusalem (2 Sam. 
xix), the men of Judah came down to Gilgai to meet 
the king to conduct him over Jordan, as if it was close 
to the river (xix, 15), and David arrived there imme- 
diately on crossing the stream after his parting with 
Barzillai the Gileadite (xix, 40). After the erection 
of the Temple, Gilgai appears to have been utterly 
neglected. Perhaps, when Jericho was rebuilt, the tra- 
ditional sanctity of Gilgai was transferred to it, and 
there a school of the pro] diets was established and re- 
mained until a late period (2 Kings ii, 5). See Jeri- 
cho. How Gilgai became appropriated to a false wor- 
ship we are not told, but certainly, as far as the ob- 
scure allusions of Hosea and Amos can be unde; stood 
(provided that they refer to this Gilgai), it was so ap- 
propriated by the kingdom of Israel in the middle pe- 
riod of its existence (II os. iv, 15 ; ix, 15; xii, 11; Amos 
iv, 4 ; v, 5). These idolatrous practices arc specially 
mentioned by Epiphanius and others (Rcland, Pattest. 
p. 782 sq.). The utter desolation of its site, and the 
whole surrounding region, shows how fearfully the 
prophecies have been fulfilled. 

The place is not mentioned in the Apocrypha nor 
the X. T. Eater authorities are more precise, but un- 
fortunately discordant among themselves. By Jose- 
phus {Ant. v, 1, 4) the encampment is given as fifty 
stadia, rather under six miles, from the river, and ten 
from Jericho. In the time of Jerome the site of the 
cam]) and the twelve memorial stones were still dis- 
tinguishable, if we are to take literally the expression 
of the Ejnf. Paulte (§ 12). The distance from Jericho 
was then two miles. According to Eusebius, the spot 
(FaXywA) was left uncultivated, but regarded with 
great veneration by the residents {Onomast. s. v. FoA- 
yaXu). "When Arculf was there at the end of the 7th 
century, the place was shown at five miles from Jeri- 
cho. A large church covered the site, in which the 
twelve stones were ranged {Early Travels in Pal. p. 7). 
It is probable, however, that the ecclesiastical archi- 
tects had not been very part icular about topography 
(Robinson, Pc search, ii, 287). The church and stones 
were seen by Willibald thirty years later, but he gives 
the distance as five miles from the Jordan, which again 
he states correctly as seven from Jericho. The stones 
are mentioned also by Thiotmar, A.D. 1217 (according 
to whom it was to these that John the Baptist pointed 
when he said that God was “able of these stones to 
raise up children unto Abraham,” Peregr. 31): and, 
lastly, bv Rudolf de Stichem a century later. These 
specifications, show that Gilgai must have been near 
the site of the modern village of Riha (Porter, JIandb. 
for S. and P. p. 19G). In Van dc Velde’s Map (1858), 
a spot named Mohnrfer, a little south-east of er-Riha, 
is marked as probable. — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. 


GILL 


871 


GILLESPIE 


Sclnvarz ( Phjs . Descr. of Palest, p. 128) asserts that 
there is at present found near the Jordan in this vicin- 
itv a hill, which appears like a heap of stones, and is 
called by the Araos Galgala ; but this lacks confirma- 
tion. It is probably this Gilgal that is called Geli- 
i.otii in Josh, xviii, 17, where, as well as in the par- 
allel passage, xv, 7, the position is given with more 
minuteness than elsewhere. 

2. A royal city of the Canaanitss, whose sovereign 
(“king of the nations of Gilgal,” or, rather, perhaps 
the “king of Goim-at-Gilgal,” ^55 3? D') ; lir“b'2) is 
mentioned in the catalogue of the chiefs overthrown 
by Joshua (Josh, xii, 23), appears to have been situa- 
ted on the western plain, as it is connected with the 
“region of Dor” (verse 22). Eusebius and Jerome 
(Onnnast. s. v. FAyiA, Gelgel) say that it was in their 
time a village called GcitguHs (VciXyovXqo), about six 
Homan miles north of Antipatris (Kefr Saba) ; and 
this is probably the present ruined village Jiljulieh of 
the same neighborhood (Robinson, Researches , iii, 17 ; 
Schwarz, Palest, p. 92), although this is only two miles 
from Kefr Saba, and east-south-east (E. Smith, in the 
Bibliotheca Sacra , 1843, p. 492), rather than the Kilki- 
lieh , about two miles east of Kefr Saba (Robinson, 
Later Researches , p. 13G, 138). 

The ( ioim , or original inhabitants of this place, evi- 
dently were in some' distinctive sense heathen (q. v.). 
“ By that word (Judg. iv, 2) or ‘ nations’ (Gen. xiv, 1) 
the name is usually rendered in the A. Vers, as in the 
well-known phrase , 1 Galilee of the nations’ (Isa. ix, 1 ; 
comp. Matt, iv, 15). Possibly they were a tribe of the 
early inhabitants of the country, who, like the Geriz- 
ites, the A vim, the Zemarites, and others, have left 
only this faint, casual trace of their existence there” 
(Smith, s. v.). See Galilee. 

3. A town, evidently in the mountainous interior, 
whence Elijah and Elisha are said to have gone down 
to Bethel (2 Kings ii, 2), which is itself 3000 feet above 
the Gilgal in the Jordan valley. It was perhaps here 
that Elisha rendered the pottage harmless (2 Kings 
iv, 38) ; he may even have resided here (2 Kings ii, 1 ; 
iv, 38). It lay in the vicinity of Baal-shalisha (2 
Kings iv, 42). This is probably the Betii-Gilgal J 
(A. V. “house of Gilgal”) mentioned (Neb. xii, 29) as 
occupied by the Levitical singers after the exile; and 
it is evidently also the Galgala (VdXyaXci) on the 
route of the victorious Bacchides (1 Mace, ix, 3). See 
Galgala. Keil ( Comment . on Josh. p. 219, 232) and 
Van de Velde (Memoir, p. 31 G), after Winer (s. v.), 
unnecessarily identify this with the Gilgal of Joshua’s 
camp, etc. It is doubtless the Galgda (r«Xy«Ac/) 
stated by Eusebius and Jerome ( Onomast . s. v.) to be 
located near Bethel ; and is the large village Jifjilia, 
one hour west of Sinjil, on the road from Jerusalem to 
Nablus, situated so high on the brow of the central 
mountain tract as to alford an extensive view of the 
great lower plain and the sea, and even a view of 
Mount Ilermon (Robinson, Researches , iii, 81). 

Gill, Alexander, an English philologist and the- 
ologian, was born in Lincolnshire Feb. 27, 15G4. lie 
studied and graduated in Corpus Christi College, Ox- 
ford. In 1603 he became principal of St. Paul’s school, 
which post he filled until his death, Nov. 17, 1635. lie 
gained much reputation as a philologist and theologi- 
cal critic bv his Treatise concerning the Trinity (1601, 
8vo ) : — LogonnvTta A nglica (1621, 4to ) : — Sacred Philos- 
ophy of Holy Scripture , or a Commentary on the Creed 
(1635, 8vo). See Wood, A thence Oxaniensos, vol. i (Lon- 
don, 1691, 2 vols. fol.); 1 loafer, Xour. Bing. Generate , 
xx, 523; Knight, Life of Colet; Allibone, Diet, of Au- 
thors, i, G71. 

Gill, John, an eminent theologian and Biblical 
scholar, was born at Kettering, England, in 1697. He 
received his education at the grammar-school in his 
native town. But the tuition of the school was only 
one of the means of education that he availed himself 


of. “As sure as that John Gill is in the bookseller’s 
shop,” became a proverbial expression. He left school 
and began preaching at the age of nineteen, and was 
pastor successively of the Baptist churches in Higham- 
Ferrers and Kettering. In 1719 he was settled at 
Horsleydown, Southwark, where he ministered for fif- 
ty-one years. lie died in 1771. Short as was his term 
of preparatory study, he must have laid a good founda- 
tion, and have been diligent in his subsequent studies, 
lie made himself an excellent Latin and Greek schol- 
ar, and a learned Orientalist. 1 1 is Rabbinical studies 
were extensive and profound. The fruits of his learn- 
ing are chiefly deposited in his commentary, a work 
valuable to consult, but so heavy and prolix in style 
as to repel any but very courageous readers. lie was 
a voluminous author. For a time he exerted a com- 
manding influence in his own denomination, and en- 
joyed higli consideration with the religious public gen- 
erally. In theology lie was a Calvinist of the Supra- 
hpsarian type, and his peculiar doctrine concerning 
the relation of Christians to the law of God occasioned, 
though it scarcely justified, the charge of Antinomian- 
ism. His principal writings are, 1. Exposition of the 
Song of Solomon: — 2. Prophecies respecting the Messiah 
fuff led in Jesus : — 3. The Cause of God and Truth, 
being an examination of the several passages of Scrip- 
ture made use of by Arminians (4 vols. Svo, 1735 ; new 
ed. Lond. 1838, 8vo) : — 4. Exposition of the New Testa- 
ment (3 vols.) 5. Exposition of the Old Testament (6 
vols.) : — 6. Dissertation on the Antiquity of the Hebrew 
Language, Letters, Vowel Points, and Accents: — 7. A 
Body of Doctrinal and Practiced Divinity: — 8. Sermons 
and Tracts, lie also YTote several treatises on Bap- 
tism, one of which, entitled Infant Baptism a Part 
and Pillar of Popery, has been republished in America. 
Ilis Body of Divinity has also had some circulation in 
this country, and has been abridged. He received 
the degree of doctor of divinity from the University 
of Glasgow. (L. E. S.) 

Gill, William, one of the early Methodist minis*, 
ters in America, was born in Delaware (date unknown), 
lie entered the itinerant ministry in 1777, filled a num- 
ber of important stations successfully, and died in 1789. 
lie was a man “of very quick and solid parts,” and, 
although he had not enjoyed great advantages of early 
education, he became so skilled in theology that Dr. 
Rush, of Philadelphia, pronounced him “ the greatest 
divine he ever heard.” — Minutes of Conferences , i, 33; 
Wakelcv, Heroes of Methodism, p. 199. 

Gilles (Coloxxa). See yEgidiits, vol. i, p. 89. 
Gilles of Viterbo. See Egidio Axtoxixi. 

Gilles, Pierre, a pastor of the Vaudois Church at 
La Tour, was born in one of the valleys of Piedmont 
in 1571. He was appointed to collect and arrange all 
the documents lie could find on the origin, history, be- 
liefs, and religions customs of the Vaudois. lie de- 
voted his entire life to this Avork, which he published 
at the age of seventy-two. The title is Histoire eccle- 
siastique des eglises reformees recueillies en quelques 
rallies du Piemont <t circonvoisines, aulresfois appellees 
eglises Vaudoises (Geneve, 1644, 4to). — Hoefer, Xouv. 
Bing. Genirale , xx, 544. 

Gillespie, Geokge, minister at Edinburgh, a 
learned Presbyterian divine. He was one of the four 
sent ns commissioners from the Church of Scotland to 
the Westminster Assembly in 1643. He died in 1648. 
He wrote (1) Aaron's Rod blossoming, or the divine Or*, 
dinance of Church Government vindicated (Lond. 1616, 
4to): — (2) The Arlc of the. Testament opened ; a Treatise 
of the Covenant of Grace (Lond. 1661-77, 2 vols. 4to) ; 
besides other smaller treatises. A new edition of his 
entire works, edited by Hetlierington, was published 
at Edinburgh in 1816 (2 vols. 8vo\ with a memoir of 
his life.- — Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. i, 1258; Allibone, 
Diet, of Authors, i, 671. 


GILLIES 


872 


GILPIN 


Gillies, John, a Scotch divine, was horn in 1712, 
ordained minister of the New College Church, Glas- 
gow, in 1712, and continued to labor there until his 
death in 1796. II is works are, Historical Collections 
relating to remarkable Periods of the Success of the Gos- 
pel , etc. (Glasg. 1754, 2 vols. 8vo) : — The N. T ., with 
devotional Reflect i >ns (London, new ed. 1810, 2 vols. 
Svo):— Life of Whitefleld (177 ‘2, 8vo ; often reprinted) : 
— Essag on the Messianic Prophecies (Lond. 1773, Svo). 
Two supplements to the Historical Collections appeared 
in 1701 and 1790; and a new edition of the original 
work, with the two supplements and an additional one 
by II. Bonar, appeared at Kelso, 1845, Svo. — Darling, 
Cyclop. Hibliogr . i, 1200; Allibonc, Diet, of Authors, i, 


and graduated at Harvard College in 1811. From 1817 
to 1819 he was connected with the university as tutor. 
In the year last named he accepted an invitation from 
the Unitarian church at Charleston, S. C.,Mind was 
soon afterwards ordained. He continued to serve that 
church with great popularity up to the year of his 
death, which took place Feb. 9, 1858. He was a fre- 
quent contributor to the North American 1 levied', and 
his papers showed a wide range of scholarship, as well 
as great skill in execution. A number of his essays, 
etc., are collected in his Contributions to Literature 
(Host. 1856, 12mo). See Monthly Religions Magazine 
(Host. 185S); Allibonc, Dictionary of Authors, i, 674; 
New American Cyclopiedia , viii, 256. 


C72. 

Gillies, John, LL.D., was born at Brechin, Scot- 
land, Jan. 18, 1747, and was educated at the Universit}” 
of Glasgow. In 1793 he became historiographer royal 
for Scotland; in 1830 he removed to Clapham, near 
London, where lie died, Fel). 15, 1836. He wrote sev- 
eral historical works, now of little value, and transla- 
ted several Greek authors, among them Aristotle 
(Ethics, Politics, Khetoric), very badly. 

Gilly, David, a Protestant divine who became a 
Roman Catholic, was born at Nismes in 1648. He 
studied at Nismes, Montaubnn, and Saumur, and was 
appointed pastor at Bauge. His life there was quiet 
and studious until the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, 
when, to save himself from the dragonades, he abjured 
bis faith, and allied himself with the Roman Catholics. 
The Trotestants ordered public fasts to avert the wrath 
of God on account of this apostasy, but the king gave 
Gilly a pension of 1000 livres, which was increased hr 
t he clergy 400 livres more. lie was sent to Langue- 
doc by the court to preach against his old faith, and 
afterwards was brought to Paris to confirm the newly- 
converted in their faith. lie died at Angers Dec. 27, 
1711. — lloefer, Nouv. Blog. Generate , xx, 557. 

Gilly, William Stephen, D.I), a pious and ex- 
emplary English clergyman, and patron of the Vamlois 
Christians. He was horn in 1789, and educated at 
Cambridge, where be passed A.B. in 1812, A.M. in 
1817, and D.D. in 1833. In 1817 be became rector of 
North Fain bridge, Essex. In 1825 he became a canon 
of Durham and rector of St. Margaret’s in that city. 
He died Sept. 10, 1855. In the year 1823 Dr. Gilly 
paid his first visit to the Vaudois Christians, which 
has been attended with such important results, not 
only to himself, but likewise to that interesting peo- 
ple, who for so many centuries have maintained their 
independence against all the power and persecution of 
papal Rome. The following year he published a vol- 
ume entitled A Narrative of art Ercnrsion to the. Moun- 
tains of Piedmont in the Year 1823, and Researches 
among the Vamlois, or Waldenses , Protestant Inhabitants 
of the Cottian Alps. This work immediately attracted 
great attention, and the interest it produced was shown 
by its reaching a fourth edition in less than three 
years. A fund of over £7000 was raised, and devoted, 
in part to the maintenance of a college and library at 
La Tour, in Piedmont. Dr. Gilly ceased his labors 
on behalf of the Vaudois only with his life. See V.vr- 
nois. Besides the work above-named, he published 
The Spirit of the Gospel , or the four Evangelists ehui - 
dated (Lond. 1818, Svo): — Hone Catecheticfr, or an Im- 
position of the Duty and A drantages of public Catechis- 
ing in the. Church ( Lond. 18 * 28 , Svo): — Waldensian Re- 
searches , a second Visit to the Vaudois (Lond. 1831, 8vo) : 
— -1 Memoir of Felix Nef Pastor of the High Alps , 
and of his Labors among the French Protestants of Ihiu- 
ph'ne (Lond. 1832, 8vo) : — Our Protestant Forefathers 
(London, 1835, 12mo; twelve editions before 1844): — 
1 'igilaniins and his Times (London, 1844, 8vo).«s— Gentle- 
man s Magazine , Oct. 1855 ; Quart. Rev. xxxiii, 134. 

Gilman, Samuel, D.D., an eminent Unitarian 
minister, was born in Gloucester. Mass., Feb. 16, 1791, 


Gi'loh (Heb. Giloli , exile [Gesenius] or cir- 
cle [Fiirst] ; Sept, in Josh. ViXib v. r. VtjXdjfi and F> ( - 
A mv, in Sam. TAw v. r. Fw\«), the last named (after 
Goshen and Holon) in the first group of eleven cities 
in the south-western part (Keil, Josh. p. 384) of the 
hill-country of the tribe of Judah (Josh, xv, 51); and 
afterwards the native place or residence of Ahithophel 
(hence called “the Gilonite” [q. v.], 2 Sam. xv, 12 ; 
xxiii, 31), whence Absalom, on bis way from Jerusa- 
lem to Hebron, summoned him (perhaps from a tem- 
porary banishment or disgrace at court) to join his 
rebellious standard (2 Sam. xv, 12 >, and whither he re- 
turned to commit suicide on the failure of his colleagues 
to adopt liis crafty counsel (2 Sam. xvii, 23). Jose- 
phus calls it Gelmon (TeXfiwv, Ant. vii, 9, 8). De 
Saulcy ( Dead Sea , i, 453) and Schwarz ( Palist . p. 105) 
both make it to be the modern Beit- Jala, near Bethle- 
hem ; but this is rather tiie ancient Zelah or Zclzali 
(q. v.), and the scriptural notices require a different 
position, perhaps at Rafif , a village with extensive 
ruins one hour twenty minutes south of Hebron (Van 


de Velde, Memoir, p. 252). 

Gi'lonite (Heb. with the art. hag-Gihmi 
Sept. 6 PcAoji'aiog, 2 Sam. xv, 12, or h 3’?sn, Sept. 6 
rfA(fji4r;/e, 2 Sam. xxiii, 34), an epithet of the traitor 
Ahithophel (q. v.), doubtless from his city Giloii 
( q. v.). 

Gilpin, Bernard, called the apostle of the North, 
an eminent English reformer and itinerant preacher, 
was born at Kentmire, in Westmoreland, in 1517. At 
sixteen he was sent to Queen’s College, Oxford, where, 
stimulated by the works of Erasmus, he made the 
Scriptures in Hebrew’ and Greek bis chief study. In 
1541 he became M.A., and about the same time was 
elected fellow’ of bis college, and ordained. His repu- 
tation for learning soon after led to liis being solicited 
by cardinal M oisey’s agents to accept an establish- 
ment in his new' foundation at Christ’s Church, whither 
he removed from Queen's College. The university 
was divided between those who asserted the necessity 
of a reformation and those who resisted it. Gilpin 
was for some time opposed to the reformers, maintain- 
ing the Romish side in a dispute with Hooper, after- 
wards bishop of Worcester. But his mind was open 
to conversion, and in preparing himself for this dis- 
pute, he began to suspect that the peculiarities of Ro- 
manism were not supported by Scripture or by the fa- 
thers. This truth was still further forced upon him 
when, on the accession of Edward VI, lVtcr Martyr 
was sent to Oxford, and Bernard Gilpin was selected 
1 as one of the champions on the Romish side to oppose 
him. The result was that he embraced the Reforma- 
tion. In 1552 he was made vicar of Norton, and in 
the same year obtained from Edward VI a license as 
“general preacher,” which authorized him to preach 
in any diocese. He resigned his living soon after, and 
went to Louvain, where the priests sought in vain to 
reclaim him to Romanism. He returned to England 
in 1556, and found the Church oppressed and persecu- 
I ted by queen Alary with blood and fire. His uncle, 
bishop Tonstall, gave him the living of Easingdon, and 


GILPIN 


873 


GIN 


afterwards the rectory of Houghton-le-Spring ; and al- 
though his Protestant views were well known, the 
bishop protected him. II is enemies now accused him 
before bishop Bonner, and he was on his way to trial, 
and probably to the scaffold, but was detained by 
breaking his leg on the journey, till news arrived of 
Mary’s death, and he returned in peace to his rectory. 
The remainder of his life was spent in the assiduous 
discharge of his parish duties, and in preaching through 
the country as an itinerant. ‘‘The parts of Kedesdale 
and Tynedale, debatable land on the Marches, are par- 
ticularly named as the scenes of his labors. The peo- 
ple there, living on the borders of the two counties, 
had long led a lawless life, subsisting mostly on plun- 
der. Gilpin went fearlessly amongst them, holding 
forth the commands and the sanctions of Christianity, 
and did much to change the character of the country. 
Hence it was that he was commonly called the North- 
ern apostle, and his name for generations was repeated 
with reverence. His own parish of Houghton, which 
included within it fourteen villages, however, was the 
chief scene of his labors. It yielded him an ample in- 
come, for Houghton was then, as now, one of the rich- 
est benefices in the North. He was himself a bachelor. 
In hospitalit} r he was like what is said or fabled of the 
primitive bishops. Every fortnight, we are told, forty 
bushels of corn, twenty bushels of malt, and a whole 
ox, were consumed in his house, besides ample supplies 
of provisions of many other kinds. A good portion of 
this hospitable provision was no doubt consumed by 
liis parishioners, it being his custom, having ‘a large 
and wide parish and a great multitude of people, to 
keep a table for them every Sunday from Michaelmas 
to Easter.’ But the rectory-house was also open to 
all travellers, and so great was the reverence which 
surrounded the master that his liberality was rarely 
abused, even the most wicked being awed by it. 11 is 
skill in according differences was scarcely less famed 
than his hospitality and his preaching ; and when to 
this we add that his benevolence took the wise direc- 
tion of providing instruction for the young, and that 
he was assiduous in his attention to the sick and to the 
poor, we have touched upon all the points which can 
be prominent in the life of a good pistor. His zeal 
for education was manifested at once in the education 
of the poor children in his parish in homely learning, 
and in patronizing promising youth in their studies in 
the universities. Of these, his scholars, ‘he kept full 
four-aud-twenty in his own house, the greater number 
being poor men’s sons, upon whom he bestowed meat, 
drink, and cloth, and education in. learning;’ and out 
of these scholars, and from the grammar-school which 
he founded, we are told that ‘he supplied the Church 
of England with great store of learned men.’ Of his 
scholars he always maintained at his own expense at 
least six at the universities, and when they had com- 
pleted their studies charged himself with the care of 
their settlement” (English Cyclopedia. s. v.). II is Life, 
by bishop Carleton, is one of the most interesting of 
Christian biographies. lie died March 4,1583. See 
Wordsworth, Eccl. Biog. iv, 307 ; Life , by \V. Gilpin 
(Glasg. 1824, 12mo) ; Jamieson, Cyclop, Relig . Biog. p. 
222; Hook, Eccl. Biog . vol. v; English Cyclopedia, s. 
v. See Faitii, Kule of. 

Gilpin, Richard, M.D., a Nonconformist divine, 
was born in Cumberland, England ; studied at Queen’s 
College, Oxford, and became minister of Greystock, 
but was ejected for nonconformity in 1002, and after- 
wards practised physic. He died in 1007. While in 
the Church, he was very popular as a preacher. He , 
published Ihemonologia sacra; or, a Treatise of Satan's I 
Temptations (in three parts, London, 1077, 4 to) : — The 
Temple Rebuilt (Loud. 1058) : — Sermons (Load. 1700). ! 
— AUibone, Dictionary of Authors, i, 674 ; Darling, Cy- 
clopedia Bibliographic a, i, 1200. 

Gilpin, William, a descendant of Bernard Gil- | 


! pin, was born at Carlisle, 1724. He became master of 
the school at Cheam, in Surrey ; afterwards vicar of 
Bold re, aiul prebendary of Salisbury. He died at Bol- 
dre, April 5, 1804. Among his numerous publications 
| are, A n Exposition of the N. T. intended as an Introduc- 
tion to the reading of the Scriptures (Lond. 1811, 2 vols. 
8vo, 4th edit .): — Lives of the Reformers (Lond. 1800, 2 
vols. Svo) : — Sermons to a Country Congregation (Lond. 

| 1802-5, 4 vols. Svo ): — Lfe of Bernard Gilpin (Glasg. 
1824, 12mo, new ed .): — Lectures on the Church Cate- 
chism (Lond. 1770, 2 vols. Svo ): — Observations on Pic - 
! turesque Beauty (1700, 2 vols. 8vo ) : — Moral Contrasts 
(Lond. 1708, 12mo). — Darling, Cyclop . Bibliog. s. v. ; 
Lose, New Gen. Bioy. Diet, viii, 30. 

Gils, Antoni us Van, D.D., was born July 20, 
1758, at Tilburg. His parents were Roman Catholics, 
lie graduated at Louvain with high honor. In 1783 
he received spiritual consecration at Antwerp. Af- 
ter this he was appointed to give instructions in 
theology, and in 1785 he received his licentiate in 
theology. Not approving the changes made in the 
University of Louvain by order of the emperor Jo- 
j seph II, lie resigned his position there, and in 1786 
was made chaplain at Eindhoven. From Decem- 
ber, 1780, to April, 1790, he labored zealously among 
the Romanists at ’s Ilertogenboseh. He returned 
in 1790 to Louvain, where he was made president of 
the College of M alder and canon of St. Peter. In 
November of the same year he was taken prisoner 
by the Austrian troops, and conveyed to Mechlin. 
Released from confinement, lie defended the university 
before the Congress, assembled for the regulation of 
Belgian affairs. In 1791 he was appointed professor, 
and in 1794 was promoted to the degree of doctor of 
theology. The French, making themselves masters 
of Louvain soon after, conveyed him and other pro- 
fessors as prisoners to Peronne. On his return to 
Louvain he composed the reply to the magistrates of 
the city, declining, on the part of himself and his col- 
leagues, to attend the opening of the temple of rease.n . 
From 1795 to 1813 he experienced various fortunes, 
being sometimes imprisoned, and for most of the time 
an exile. After the overthrow of Napoleon be again 
stood at the head of the University of Louvain, lie 
died at the university June 10, 1834. His principal 
works are, De. ticee cosyns: — Eenvondiye samenspraeken 
over ele religiezaken ran dezen tyd (Leuv. 1790, 12mo): 
— Motifs de conscience qui emptchent les ministres de culte 
I catholiqne defaire la declaration exigee par la loi dn 7 
Vend. an. I U(Leuv. 1797 ; this was also translated into 
Flemish) : — I)e gronden ran het Christ< n-eath. gcloof te- 
genorer de gronden der philosophic ('s llertogenb. 1800): 
— Analysis epistolarum B. Pauli apostoli ad vsum semi- 
nurii Sylva-Ducensis (Lov. 1810, 3 vols. 12mo). See 
Glasius, Godyeleerd JYederland, D. i, biz. 527 en verv. ; 
also F. V. Goet-lials, Lectures relatives a I'histoire ties 
sciences, des arts, des maurs , et de la politique en Bel- 
! gique, etc., ii, 298 suiv. (J. P. W.) 

Gim'zo (Ileb. Gimzo' , IT a place fertile in syc- 
amores; Sept. Vi/iZm v. r. 11 c *t,V i 11 ^ ie 

plain of the kingdom of Judah, mentioned in connec- 
tion with Timnah, and taken, with its dependent vil- 
lages (Heh. daughters), by the Philistines in the time 
of Ahaz (2 Chron. xxviii, 18); now Jimzu , a common 
and rather large village, on an eminence, on the south 
side of the road, about an hour south-east of Ludd. 
(Lvdda or Ramleli) ; with many threshing-floors and 
ancient cisterns used as magazines for grain (Robin- 
son’s Researchrs, iii, 50). It is mentioned in the Tal- 
mud (Schwarz, Palest, p. 130). 

Gin, an old English word for trap, stands as the 
rendering of two Hebrew words in certain passages : 

-, mokesli, a noose or “snare” (as elsewhere ren- 
dered), Psa. cxl, 5; cxli, 9; Amos iii, 5; and 513, 
pach , lit. a plate or thin layer, hence a net or trap, Sept. 


GINA 


874 


GIOBERTI 


7 r«yic, Job xviii, 9; Isa. viii, 14; elsewhere “snare.” I 
See Hunting; Fowler, etc. 

Gina a brook or winter-stream (K^l"!:- 

mentioned in the Talmud as being not far from En) 
Gan ni m (q. v.) (Schwarz, Palest, p. 52). 

Gi'natll (lleb. Ginath r2“a, a garden [Gesen.J or 
protection [Fiirst]; Sept, rivifi v. r. rWdS’), the fa- 
ther of Tihni (q. v.), king of the northern tribes of Is- 
rael (1 Kings xvi, 23, 22). B.C. ante 92G. 

Giii'netho (lleb. Ginnethoy' , Sept. r*i'o- 

$wv. Vulg. Genthon'), a corrupt reading (Xeli. xii, 4) 
for the name Gixnktiiox (q. v.). 

Gin'nethon (Heb. Ginnethon , ‘pri5, gardener or 
great garden; Sept. Vactvva&bv and P«e«3 f w 3', Vulg. 
Genthon ), one of the “chief” priests that returned 
from the captivity with Zerubbabel (Xeh. xii, 4, where 
the reading is “Gennetho”), and subscribed the cove- 
nant with Xehemiah (x, G); his son Mcshullam is 
mentioned as contemporary with the high-priest Joia- 
kim (xii, 1G). B.C. 536-410. 

Gioberti, Vincenzo, a distinguished Italian phi- 
losopher and statesman, was born at Turin, April 5, 
1801. He studied theology in the university of his 
native city, was received doctor in 1823, and in 1825 
was ordained priest and appointed professor of theolo- 
gy in the university. He acquired great reputation, 
and became court chaplain in 1831. Soon afterwards 
he was implicated in a republican conspiracy (said to 
have been instigated by the Jesuits, in order to destroy 
the liberal sympathies of the king), was thrown into 
prison, and then exiled without trial. He went first 
to Paris, thence to Brussels, where he remained until 
1843, in the humble position of tutor in a private school. 
Some time after he declined a professorship of philoso- 
phy offered him by cardinal Wiseman, preferring to 
devote all his time to his literary labors. His first 
publication was the Teona del Sovraruiturale (Capo- 
lago, 1838). In 1839 he published his Introduzume ullo 
studio della Filcsofm . This remaikable work was fol- 
lowed in 1841 hy his Del Bello , in which the author 
analyzes Christian epopee, and especially Dante’s 
Dirina Comedia. Gioberti next employed himself 
against the modern German philosophers and the 
French encyclopedists, whose ideas outlived the devo- 
lution. He wrote successively the Lett res poL-miques 
cant re La Mennais (Paris, 1840); Del Buono ; and Er~ 
rori jHosojici di Antonio Rosmini (Capolago, 1842). In 
opposing the pantheistic tendencies of La Mennais and 
Rosmini, Gioberti evinces great argumentative talent, 
and a vivid imagination. He aimed at making Italy 
throw off the yoke of foreign doctrines, with the ulti- 
mate view of enabling her subsequently to expel for- 
eign political interference, lie was careful always to 
profess orthodox opinions, so as not to give either the 
Italian princes or the pope any hold against him. His 
new catholic system found many adherents. In order 
to raise the clergy in the popular esteem, lie advocated 
such reforms as the spirit of the times required, and ad- 
vised the priests to head the social movement and to 
disseminate instruction ninongthc people. He also call- 
ed on the learned men of Italy, inviting them to regain 
their former ascendency hy uniting faith with science 
and art. In this view he wrote his 11 Prhnato chile e. 
morale d gli ItaL (Paris, 1813). This remarkable work, 
which proposed the plan of a Roman confederacy headed 
by the pope, and which has had great inlluence on the. 
recent history of Italy, was not at the time in harmony 
with public opinion. The substance of the book is as 
follows: “Italy has been twice at the head of Euro- 
pean civilization ; once, in antiquity, and again in the 
Middle Ages. In the latter period Italy owed its su- 
premacy to the popes, who were then the natural arbi- 
ters of princes and the spiritual sovereigns of the na- 
tions. The downfall of Italy is due to the downfall of 
the papacy. The problem now is to restore the papal 


power, as a moral dominion based on religion and pub- 
lic opinion.” Gioberti aims at “restoring the papal 
arbitration between the sovereign and the people; lie 
wishes to lead it back to the time of Gregory VII and 
of Alexander III, and in this restoration of the past 
finds the best means of repulsing foreign oppression 
by the unaided efforts of Italy alone. As for the form 
of government, he inclines to a constitutional monar- 
chy, and, like Alfieri, considers Fiedmont as the most 
compact, best organized, and most vital state of Italy ; 
calls it to closer union with the other provinces, and 
by showing to it the perspective of a united Italy, in- 
vites it to become the champion of national independ- 
ence.” The work was published under the most un- 
favorable circumstances, during the last years of the 
pontificate of Gregory XVI. The Jesuits, despite a 
few compliments to their order, which the author had 
skilfully introduced in his hook, were alarmed at its 
tendencies. Gioberti, however, answered their objec- 
tions in 1 Prolegomeni (1845); 11 Gesuita mode mo (Ca- 
polago, 1847, 8 vols. ; German trails! . by Cornet, Lpz. 

I 1849, 3 vols.). This work, written ah irato , had an im- 
mense -effect; t lie Jesuits were expelled from Pied- 
mont, and from all the other states of Peninsular Italy. 

After the events of 1848 Gioberti was recalled from 
exile, and his return was a triumph. He went to 
j Milan, started the project of union between Lombardy 
and Piedmont, and traversed Central Italy, inviting 
all parties to unite for the good of the country, lie 
declined the office of senator which was offered him 
by Charles Albert, but was elected to the House of 
Representatives by the inhabitants of Turin, and at 
once chosen for its president. In 1848 he was minis- 
ter of public instruction, and president of the so-called 
Democratic council. Austrian intrigues defeated Gio- 
berti’s plans, and he was obliged to withdraw from 
the cabinet. lie then advocated his views in a news- 
paper entitled 11 Saggmtore. The misfortunes of Italy 
and the abdication of Charles Albert rendered it neces- 
sary for him to take again an active part in state af- 
fairs. Victor Emmanuel appointed him in the Delnu- 
nay-Pinelli cabinet, without any special department; 
yet the conservative party managed soon after to have 
him appointed ambassador to Paris, as a means of get- 
ting rid of him. Jle understood it so, sent in his res- 
ignation, and on the arrival of his successor, count 
I Gallinn, returned to private life. He afterwards pub- 
lished his Del Rinnovamento cirile dell ' Italia (Paris and 
Turin, 1851, 2 vols.). In this work lie examines with 
great impartiality into the causes of the present posi- 
tion of Italy. Among the chief obstacles to its inde- 
pendence lie signalizes, on the one hand, the exagger- 
ation of the principles of municipal and ecclesiastical 
power, and, on the other, the dangerous influence of 
Mazzinianism. Sympathizing with the loyalty and 
liberalism of Victor Emmanuel, he, so to say, traces 
out for him the line to be followed to arrive at the re- 
generation of Italy. Gioberti was preparing a philo- 
sophical work, entitled Protologia. when he died sud- 
denly at Paris, Oct. 25, 1851. IT is most important 
work is the I ntroduzione , which lias been translated 
into French under the title Introduction ii V etude de la 
Philosophic (Paris, 18-17, 3 vols. Svo). The Christian 
Remembrancer (July, 1853, art. i) remarks upon it as 
follows: “With regard to the Introduction to Philoso- 
phy, it is extremely difficult to express an opinion, 
because (speaking with the utmost seriousness) we 
have a great difficulty in deciding, upon internal evi- 
dence alone, whether it was the product of a sane 
mind. The excitement visible throughout ; the lofty 
tone in which he passes judgment upon others, and 
pours forth his own ‘utterances;’ the virulence with 
which lie treats some who differ from him, combined 
with the obscurity and dreaminess of the opinions ex- 
pressed ; the extraordinary nature of th^ premises he 
assumes, and his dogmatism, not the less arrogant 
from liis entire unconsciousness — all these things on 


GIOBERTI 


875 


GIRALDUS CAMBRENSIS 


the one hand, and, on the other, his acuteness, depth, 
information, and power of argument, leave us much 
at a loss to discover whether the author was in his so- 
ber senses or not. We give a brief abstract of his 
views, so far as we have been enabled to comprehend 
them. He conceives that the source of all human 
knowledge is in God, and that it is one whole, and in 
a manner identical with God himself; and the name 
which he gives it is ‘ L’ Idea,’ or Thought. This di- 
vine thought is communicated to man in proportion as 
he is capable of receiving it; and it is ‘the light 
which enlightenetli every man that comoth into the 
world.’ Man receives it by means of his reason, which 
is capable of directly beholding it; and this direct be- 
holding (or intuition) of the ‘Idea’ is the origin and 
first cause of all the knowledge of natural tilings which 
the mind of man possesses. It is innate, inasmuch as 
it rises to the mind at the same moment as the thought 
which apprehends it; but it does not rise within the 
mind, but enters it from without. It is the principle 
of knowledge to the human mind, from the very first 
exercise of its powers as a thinking being. The simi- 
larity of this view to that of Plato, revived and modi- 
fied by Malebranche and Leibnitz, is sufficiently evi- 
dent. But this direct intuition of the divine thought 
by the reason, although the origin of all thoughts in 
the soul, is by itself but inchoate and imperfect. In 
order to render it available, it requires that this intu- 
ition should be reflected on ; and this can be done only 
by means of language, for man cannot reflect on and 
(so to speak) repeat the original intuition except by 
means of language, which renders determinate what 
was before imperfect. For this purpose language was 
given to man, and by means of language God origin- 
ally reveals to man that which he has caused him to 
behold by internal and direct intuition ; and by means 
of language this same revelation is repeated and car- 
ried on from generation to generation ; and by the 
same medium, employed analogically, the knowledge 
of the divine thought is more and more revealed. Yet 
language is not the cause of human knowledge, nor is 
it, in the case of ordinary kno .Hedge, the medium of 
the exhibition of the divine thought to the mind (for 
that shines immediately upon the mind), hut it is the 
occasion of its being completely revealed. For the 
purposes of ordinary and natural knowledge this com- 
bination of intuition with language is the method or- 
dained ; but supernatural knowledge can be conveyed 
only by means of language ; and divine truths are not 
seen by intuition, but believed. Yet all knowledge 
of every kind has its source in the divine thought, and 
consists of such views of it as the individual is capable 
of. Besides reason, which is capable of beholding the 
divine thought, man has likewise interned an l spiritual 
feelings or emotions, which are modifications of the 
mind, and preserved hv feeling; and, in addition, he 
possesses material and external feelings, having refer- 
ence to the properties of bodies, and perceived by sen- 
sation and the outward senses. The ordinary range 
of modern metaphysics is confined to these internal 
and external feelings ; and it is a common error to 
substitute the internal feeling as a first principle, in- 
stead of that which is apprehended by the reason 
through direct intuition, and revealed to the soul by 
language ancl reflection. It is likewise an equally 
common error to substitute reflection on these internal 
and external feelings for reason, as the initiatory in- 
strument of that knowledge which is the basis of phi- 
losophy. (Here he is evidently alluding to Locke and 
his followers.) But it is by the view or intuition of 
the divine thought that meaning is given to these va- 
rious feelings, external and internal, and to the vari- 
ous sensible objects by which the}' are surrounded. 
The basis of all knowledge is the knowledge of being ; 
yet not of an abstract idea, but of the concrete person- 
al Being, God himself, acting as a cause and produc- 
ing existences , who is, in fact, the only being , because 


he alone has being in himself. The knowledge of this 
being is gained by revelation, by means of the written 
word, whs; ein he declares himself, ‘I am that I am;’ 
and the mind beholds him, and has him made known 
to it internally, through the reason, independently of 
all external sensations. God being the only being, 
all other things are only existences; and man learns 
from the revealed word that the one being created ex- 
istences ; not that he extends himself into these va- 
rious manifestations (as Hegel teaches); not that lie 
j causes these existences to emanate from himself, as 
other Pantheists teach, blit that he creates them. 

! Man thus learns their proper nature, viz. that they 
are distinct, individual, real tilings, having a kind of 
: personality ; that it is the act of creation which gives 
them this reality and individuality ; and that it is only 
by the fact of their being created that their reality is 
assured to us ; that, in short, nothing but the act of 
1 creation could assure to us the reality of external 
things. Gioberti holds, moreover, that all our knowl- 
edge of philosophy must begin with a knowledge of 
being and existences, and their relation to each other; 
and that not of abstract being or abstract existence, 
but of one concrete Being, and of man}' concrete indi- 
vidual existences ; and he thinks that the divine 
thought gives us a knowledge of the latter by a direct 
view of them, which gives life and meaning to all our 
sensations and feelings in connection with them. He 
likewise teaches that principles of knowledge are ob- 
; jective, eternal, and absolute; that they are not the 
creation of the mind, nor sought out by it, but that they 
present themselves to the mind unsought, aiul are first 
truths — the foundation of other truths. He teaches 
that t lie permanent possession of the divine thought 
J depends in a degree on man himself ; that he may 
rebel against it, and thus fail to receive it, and fall 
into error. He teaches that it is by the participation 
of it that individuals possess a moral personality; that 
it is the vital principle, and that if it were entirely 
1 withdrawn the consequence would be annihilation ; 
that inasmuch as the divine thought creates and gov- 
erns the universe, it is the soul of the world ; inasmuch 
as it dwells in men’s minds, it is knowledge ; inasmuch 
as it actuates, produces, determines, and classifies the 
powers of nature, it is the generic and specific essence 
of things; that the basis of generality is the Divine 
Being himself, having in himself the ideas of all pos- 
sible things, and the power of giving effect to those 
ideas.” He left a number of MSS., which were edited 
and published by G. Massari, under the title Opere in- 
edite di Vincenzo Gioberti (Torino, 185G-GO, G vols. Svo). 
There is an excellent article on the life and writings 
of Gioberti in the Christian Examiner, 18G1, p. 237. 
See also Massari, Vita e Morte di Gioberti (Flor. 1848), 
and Etudes sur Gioberti; Cruger, Esquisses Italiennes; 
Spaventa, La fdosofa cli Gioberti (Naples, 1804) ; Lis- 
orgimento (Oct. 1851) ; Hoefer, Nom\ Biog . Generate, 
xx, 585 sq. : New American Cgclopeedia, viii, 250 sq. ; 
North British Review , vol. xi ; Brownson’s Review, iv, 
409 sq. 

Giordano Bruno. See Bruno. 

Gir. See Ciialk. 

Giraldus Cambrensis (Sylvester), archdea- 
con of Brecon and titular bishop of Menevia or St. 
David’s, was born at Pembroke, Wales, ^n 114G. 
lie finished his education in Paris, and in 1175 was 
appointed by Bichard, archbishop of Canterbury, as 
his legate for Wales, and was soon after made arch- 
deacon of Brecon. In the following year he was 
elected bishop of Menevia, but king Henry II refused 
to confirm the election. He then returned to Paris, 
where, as he says himself, in his De rebus a se gestis, 
he passed for the most learned person in jurisprudence, 
and was offered the professorship of canon law, which 
he declined. He afterwards administered for a while 
the affairs of the bishopric of Menevia, and in 1184 be- 


GIRDLE 


87G 


GIRDLE 


came court preacher of Henry IT. Tie accompanied ' 
Henry’s son John as adviser in the expedition against 
Ireland, and in 1188 accompanied archbishop Baldwin 
of Canterbury on a tour through Wales, for the pur- 
pose of organizing a crusade, Richard I appointed 
him legate of Wales, but at the fall of the latter he re- 
turned to his studies, lie was again elected bishop 
of St. David’s, but failed again to be recognised as 
such. lie “ passed the last seventeen years of his life 
in study, revising his former literary works and com- 
posing "others, of which he has himself given a copious 
index. In the niid*t of these occupations he received 
once more an offer of the bishopric of St. David’s, and 
would have met with no opposition from the court ; but, 
from the dishonorable terms on which it was offered, 
lie refused the ecclesiastical dignity which had so long 
been the object of his earnest wishes. He died at St. 
David’s in the seventy-fourth year of his age, and was 
buried in the cathedral church, where liis effigy still 
remains upon an altar-tomb beneath an ornamental 
arch. Giraldus appears to have been an upright and 
able man. As an ecclesiastic he was zealous, active, 
and fearless in maintaining the rights and dignities of 
his (’liurch ; but he wa=, at the same time, honest and 
disinterested. As a scholar he was learned, and as a 
collector of historical materials diligent, far beyond 
the measure of his age. As a historian, however, he 
was full of credulity, and as a man, as his works prove, 
one of the vainest upon record. Giraldus has himself 
given a catalogue of his works, as well as a long his- 
tory of his actions, both printed b}' Wharton. Other 
lists will be found in Fabricius, Bibliotheca Med. et Inf. 
Latinitatis (edit. Patav. 4 to, 1754). iii, G2, and in the 
notes to his life in the Biogr. Britan, (ed. 1778), i, 040; 
642, 044. Sir Richard Colt Hoare has given a full 
account of such 31 SS. of his works as exist in the sev- 
eral libraries in the British Museum, in the Archiepis- 
copal Library at Lambeth, at Bene’t (Corpus Christi) 
College, in the public library at Cambridge, and in the 
Bodleian. Those printed are, I liner ar turn Cambria 
(Lond. 1585, Svo), and in Camden's .1 ngl. Xonn., etc., 
Scnjjt. (Francof. 1002, fol.), p. 818-878: — Topographia 
Hibernia (Camden, ut sup.), p. 002-754: — Expugnatio 
Hibernia (ibidem), p. 755-813: — Descripiio Cambria 
(ibid.), p. 879 892. Several short pieces by Giraldus 
are printed in the second volume of Wharton’s Anglia 
Sacra. The Gemma Ecclesiastica, published at Mentz 
in 1549, without the author’s name, under the title of 
Gemma Animee , is ascribed to Giraldus. Sir Richard 
Colt Hoare, in 1800, published the Itinerarg of Arch- 
bishop Baldwin through IFa/es, translated into English, 
and illustrated with views, annotations, and a life of 
Giraldus (2 vols. 4to).” A new edition, Giraldi Cam - 
hrensis Opera , is now publishing, under the direction 
of the master of the rolls, edited by J. F. Dimock; 5 
vols. were issued up to 1808. See Wharton, Anglia 
Sacra , ii, 457-513; Fabricius, Bibliotheca Med. et Inf. 
Latinitatis; Engl. Cgclopadia , s. v. Barry; Bing. Bri- 
tannica, s. v. Barri ; Herzog, Real~Encgklopadie,x , 104; 
Wright, Bing. Brit. Liter aria, Anglo-Norman Period, 
p. 380-97. 

Girdle, an essential article of dress in the East, 
and worn both by men and women. The correspond- 
ing Hebrew and Greek words are: 1. “uSH, chagor , 
or (fem.), chagorali , girder (Prov. xxxi, 24; 

Ezck. xxiii, 15; Gen. iii, 7; 2 Sam. xviii. 11; Isa. 
xxxii, 11), which is the general term for a girdle of 
any kind, whether worn by soldiers (1 Sam. xviii, 4; 
2 Sain, xx, 8; 1 Kings ii, 5; 2 Kings iii, 21), or by 
women (Isa. iii, 24). 2. “"'TS, ezor', something bound 

(Isa. xi, 5), especially used of the girdles worn by 
men ; whether by prophets (2 Kings i, 8; Jer. xiii, 1), 
soldiers (Isa. v, 27 ; Ezck. xxiii, 15), or kings in their 
military capacity (Job xii, 18). 3. T’A'lpmezaeh' , or 

n't'i, maz'd ach, a band (“strength,” Job xii, 21), used 


of the girdle worn by men alone (Psa. cix, 19 ; Isa. 
xxiii, 10). 4. These, as well as the general term 
a belt , Matt, iii, 4; x, 9 ; Mark i, G; vi, 8; Acts xxi, 
11; Rev. i, 13; xv, G, require no special elucidation. 
Besides these were the following peculiar terms: 5. 
1222!$, abnet’ (from the Sanscrit bandha , a band), the 
girdle of sacerdotal and state officers (Exod. xxviii, 4, 
:;9, 40; xxix, 9; xxxix, 29; Lev', viii, 7, 13; xvi, 4; 
Isa. xxii, 21). See Priest. It was especially worn by 
the priests about the close-fitting tunic (Exod. xxviii, 
39; xxxix, 29), and is described by Josephus (Ant. 
iii, 7, 2) as made of linen so fine of texture as to look 
like the slough of a snake, and embioidered with flow- 
ers of scarlet, purple, blue, and fine linen. It was 
of about four fingers’ breadth, and was wrapped several 
times round the priest’s body, the ends hanging down 
to the feet. When engaged in sacrifice, the priest 
threw the ends over his left shoulder. According to 
Maimonides (De J7/$. Sand. c. 8), the girdle worn both 
by the high-priest and the common priests was of white 
linen embroidered with wool; but that worn by the 
high-priest on the day of atonement was entirely of 
white linen. The length of it was thirty-two cubits, 
and the breadth about three fingers. It was worn just 
below the arm-pits to avoid perspiration (comp. Ezek. 
xliv, IS). Jerome (Ep>. ad Fabiolam , de Vest. Sac.) fol- 
lows Josephus. With regard to the manner in which 
the girdle was embroidered, the “ needlework” (nu;^*2 
Exod. xxviii, 39) is distinguished in the Mishna 
from the “cunning-work” (Z’rn iT.122'2, Exod. xxvi, 
31) as being worked by the needle with figures on one 
side only, whereas the latter was woven-work with fig- 
ures on both sides (Cod. Yoma. e. 8). So also Maimon- 
idcs (De 1 \i$. Sanct. viii, 15). But Jarchi, on Exod. 
xxvi, 31,36, explains the difference as consisting in 
this, that in the former case the figures on the two 
sides are the same, whereas in the latter they are dif- 
ferent. See Embroider. This abnet may he consid- 
ered as fairly represented by those girdles which we 
observe on such persons in the Egyptian paintings. 



In all passages, except Isa. xxii, 21, -’“N is used of 
the girdie of the priests only, hut in that instance it 
appears to have been worn by Shebna, the treasurer, 
as part of the insignia of his office; unless it be sup- 
posed that he was of priestly rank, and wore it in his 
priestly capacity. He is called “high-priest” in the 


GIRDLE 


877 


GIRGASHITE 


Chronicon Paschale , p. 115 a, and in the Jewish tradi- 
tion quoted by Jarchi ad loc. G. The “curious gir- 
dle” (3*rn, che' shel?, something requiring inventive art, 
Exod. xxviii, 8) attached to the epliod was made of 
the same materials and colors as the epliod, that is, of 
“gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and tine twined 
linen.” Josephus describes it as sewed to the breast- 
plate. After passing once round it was tied in front 
upon the seam, the ends hanging down (Ant. iii, 7, 5). 
According to Maimonides, it was of woven work. {See 
Epiiod. 7. In addition to these, pefhigW , a 

covering or festive mantle (“ stomacher,” Isa. iii, 24), 
is a costly girdle worn by women. The Vulgate ren- 
ders it fascia pectoralis. It would thus seem to corre- 
spond with the Latin strophium , a belt worn by women 
about the breast. In the Sept., however, it is trans- 
lated yirwn ptrro—optyupog, “a tunic shot with purple,” 
and Gesenius has U buntes F'eyerkleuV ’ (compare Schro- 
der, De Vest. Mul. p. 137, 404). 8. The hish- 

shnrini' , closely-ft'erZ articles, mentioned in Isa. iii, 20 
(“head-bands”) ; Jer. ii, 32 (“ attire”), were probably 
girdles, although both Kimchi and Jarchi consider them 
as fillets for the hair. In the latter passage the Vul- 
gate has again fascia peclo?'alis , and the Sept. 

<?£<7 pig, an appropriate bridal ornament. See each of 
the above renderings in their place. 


s In consequence of the costly materials of which gir- 
dles were made, they were frequently given as pres- 
ents (1 Sam. xviii, 4 ; 2 Sam. xviii, 11), or in token of 
honor (Rev. i, 15), as is still the custom in Persia (comp. 
Morier, p. 93). Villages were given to the queens of 
Persia to supply them with girdles (Xenoph. A nab. i. 
4, 9 ; Plato, A Ic. i, 123). 



Syrian. 

They were used as pockets, as among the Arabs still 


The common girdle was made of leather (2 Kings i, 
8; Matt, iii, 4), like that worn by the liedouins of the 
present day, whom Curzon describes as “armed with 
a long crooked knife, and a pistol or two stuck in a red ; 
leathern girdle” (Alonast. of the Levant , p. 7). In the 
time of Chardin the nobles of Mingrelia wore girdles 
of leather, four lingers broad, and embossed with sil- 
ver. A liner girdle was made of linen (Jer. xiii, 1 ; 
Ezek. xvi, 10), embroidered with silk, and sometimes 
with gold and silver thread (Dan. x, 5; Rev. i, 13; 
xv, G), and frequently studded with gold and precious 
stones or pearls (Le Rruyn, Vo if. iv, 170 ; comp. Virgil, 
sEneid , ix, 359). Morier (Second Journey, p. 150), dc- 
scribingthe dress of the Armenian women, says, “They 
wear a silver girdle which rests on the hips, and is 
generally curiously wrought.” The manufacture of 
girdles formed part of the employment of women (Prov. 
xxxi, 24). 

The girdle was fastened by a clasp or buckle (2 1 
Kings i, 8 ; Matt, iii, 4; Mark i, 4) of gold or silver, or 
tied in a knot (Jer. xiii, 1; Ezek. xvi, 10), so that the 
ends hung down in front, as in the figures on the ruins 
of Persepolis. It was worn by men about the loins, 
hence the expressions “girdle of the loins” or “ of the 
reins” (C?:n’2 TTN, Isa. xi, 5 ; “HN:, Isa. v, 

27). The girdle of women Avas generally looser than 
that of the men, and was worn about the hips, except 
when they were actively engaged (Prov. xxxi, 17). 
Curzon (p. 58), describing the dress of the Egyptian 
women, says, “ Not round the waist, but round the hips 
a large and heavy Cashmere shawl is worn over the 
velek, and the whole gracefulness of an Egyptian dress 
consists in the way in which t his is put on.” The mil- 
itiry girdle was worn about the waist; the sword or 
dagger was suspended from it (.Judg. iii, 1G; 2 Sam. 
xx, 8; Psa. xlv, 3). In the Nineveh sculptures the 
soldiers are represented with broad girdles, to which 
the sword is attached, and through which two or even 
three daggers in a sheath are passed (comp, Q. Curtius, 
iii, 3). Hence girding up the loins denotes preparation 
for battle or for active exertion (1 Kings xviii, 4G; 2 
Kings iv, 29; Job xxxviii, 3; Prov. xxxi, 17 ; Jer. i, 
17 ; Luke xii, 35 ; 1 Pet. i, 13) ; and to “ loose the gir- 
dle” was to give way to repose and indolence (Isa. v, 
27). To loose the girdle and give it to another was a 
token of great confidence and affection (1 Sam. xviii, 
4). In times of mourning, girdles of sackcloth were 
worn as marks of humiliation and sorrow (Isa. iii, 24; 
xxii, 12). 


(Niebuhr, Descr. p. 5G), and as purses, one end of the 
girdle being folded back for the purpose (Matt, x, 9; 
Mark vi, 8). lienee “ zonam perdere,” “to lose one’s 
purse” (Hor. Epist. ii, 2, 40; compare Juv. xiv, 297). 
lnkhorns were also carried in the girdle (Ezek. ix, 2). 

“ Girdle” is often used figuratively in the Scriptures 
(see Psa. cix, 19 ; compare 1 Sam. ii, 4; Psa. xxx, 11 ; 
Ixv, 12 ; Eph. vi, 14). — Smith, s. v. The girdle was a 
symbol of strength, activity, and power (Job xii, 18, 
21; xxx, 11; Isa. xxiii, 10; xlv, 15; xi, 5; xxii, 21 • 
1 Kings xx, 11). The perfect adherence of the people 
of God to his service is figuratively illustrated by the 
“ cleaving of the girdle to a man’s loins” (Jer. xiii, 11). 
In the same view, “righteousness and faithfulness” 
are called the girdle of the Messiah (Isa. xi, 5). See 
Attire. 

Gir'gashite (Hebrew invariably in the sing, and 
with the art. liag-G irg ash'd , in a collective 

sense; dwelling in a clayey soil ; Sept. Pfoyeermot and 
Ptpytiraloc, Vulg. Gergescei and Gcrgcsams; A.Y. “Gir- 
gashite” in 1 Cliron. i, 14; “ Girgasite” in Gen. x, 
1G; elsewhere “ Girgashites”), a designation of one of 
the nations who were in possession of Canaan before 
the entrance thither of the children of Israel. In Gen. 
x, 1G, they are mentioned as the descendants of the 
fifth son of Canaan ; in other passages the tribe is 
merely referred to, and that but occasionally, in the 
formula expressing the doomed country (Gen. xv, 21; 
Deut. vii, 1 [and xx, 17 in Samarit. and Sept.]; Josh, 
iii, 10; xxiv, 11; 1 Cliron. i, 14; Nell, ix, 8). The 
Girgashites are conjectured to have been a part of the 
large family of the Hivites, as they are omitted in nine 
out of ten places in which the nations or families of 
Canaan are mentioned, while in the tenth the} r are 
mentioned, and the Hivites omitted. Josephus states 
that nothing but the name of the Girgashites (Pfoyf- 
rraXoi) remained in his time (Ant. i, G, 2). In the Jew- 
ish commentaries of R. Nachman and elsewhere, the 
Girgashites are described as having retired into Africa, 
fearing the power of God; and Procopius, in his His- 
tory of the Vandals, mentions an ancient but doubtful 
inscription in Mauritania Tingitana, stating that the 
inhabitants had fled thither from the face of Joshua, 
the son of Nun. A city Girgis (*»^5) existed among 
the Phoenician tribes in Northern Africa at the Syrtis 
Minor (Furst. Heb.Lex. p.298). The notion that the 
Girgashites did migrate seems to have been founded 
on the circumstance that, although they are included 
in the list of the seven devoted nations either to be 


GIRGASITE 


878 


GITTITE 


driven out or destroyed by the Israelites (Gen. xv, 20, 
21 ; Dcut. vii, 1 ; Josh, iii, 10; xxiv, 11 ; Nell, ix, 8), 
yet they arc omitted in the list of those to be utterly 
destroyed (Dcut. xx, 17), and are mentioned among 
those with whom, contrary to the divine decree, the 
Israelites lived and intermarried (Judg. iii, 1 -6). Sec 
Canaan. The expression in Josh, xxiv, 11 would 
seem to indicate that the district of the Girgashites 
was on the west of Jordan. By most writers, howev- 
er, they are supposed to have been settled in that part 
of the country which lay to the east of the lake of Gen- 
nesareth (.four. Sac. Lit. Oct. 1851, p. 167). This con- 
clusion is founded on the identity between the word 
Vepytcaioi, which the Septuagint gives for Girgash- 
ites, and that by which Matthew (viii, 28) indicates 
the land of the Gcrgesencs (Ffpyecn/i'oi). But as this 
last reading rests on a conjecture of Origcn, on which 
little reliance is now placed, the conclusion drawn from 
it has no great weight, although the fact is possible on 
other grounds, especially the probability that some 
actual city of this name must have been the founda- 
tion of the reading in question. Indeed, the older 
reading, “ Gcrasenes,” has sufficient resemblance to 
direct the attention to the country beyond the Jordan ; 
where Eusebius also (Onom. s. v. F toyam't) affirms that 
the Girgashites dwelt. — Kitto, s. y. See Gekasa. 

Gir'gasite (Gen. x, 1G). Sec Girgasiiite. 

Girl (rny, yaldah ', fern, of l?!?, a boy), lit. one 
horn, i. e. a female child (Joel iii, 3; Zech. xiii, 5), 
spoken of a marriageable “ damsel” (Gen. xxxiv, 4). 
See Child. 

Girzite. See Gezrite. 

Gisborne, Tiiomas, A. XI., prebendary of Durham, 
a distinguished divine and author, w.is born at Derby 
in 1758, entered at Harrow School in 1773, and at St. 
John's College, Cambridge, in 1776; was made perpet- 
ual curate of Barton-under-Need wood, Staffordshire, in 
1783, and removed in the same year to Yoxall Lodge, 
near Barton, where he ever after resided. He obtain- 
ed the prebend of Durham in 182G, and died in 1846. 
His works are written in a clear and nervous style; 
his sermons have been recommended as models for 
young students in divinity. lie strongly opposed Pa- 
ley’s Ethics, of which he published an E rumination (2d 
edit. 1790). Among his works are, A familiar Survey 
of the Christian Reliyion as connected vith the Introduc- 
tion of Christianity (London, 1799, 2d ed. 8vo) : — The 
Principles of Moral Philosophy investigated and applied 
to the Constitution of civil Society (Lond. 1798, 4th ed. 
8vo): — The Testimony of Natural Theology to Christian- 
ity (London, 1818, 12mo) : — A n Inquiry respecting Love 
as one of the divine Attributes (Lond. 1838, sm. 8vo): — 
Sermons (Lond. 1808, 1809, and 1*10, 3 vols. 8vo) : — A 
familiar Exposition of Colossians.in eight Sermons (Lon- 
don, 1816, 12mo). — Darling, Cyclopivdin Bibliographica , 
i, 1267 ; Allibone, Diet, of Authors, i, 675; XYhewell, 
History of Moral Philosophy in England, lect. xi ; Gent. 
Magazine , June, 1846. 

Gischala (~d lVaynXn), a small city (-oXtvvia') 
often mentioned by Josephus in his account of the last 
struggle of the Jews with the Ilomans, especially as 
being the scene of the operations of the famous “John 
(q. v.) of Gischala” (Bor, iv, 1, 8). It was situated 
in Galilee (ih. ii, 1); and, after having been destroyed 
by the Jewish zealots, it was rebuilt by John (Life, 
10), and further fortified by the advice of Josephus 
himself (IFbr, ii, 20, 6), and was the last stronghold 
of Galilee captured by Titus (ih. iv, 2). It is doubt- 
less the Gush Chalab (2^n '^'w) of the Talmud (Mc- 
nach. viii, 3), famed for its oil (Erach. ix, 6), named in 
connection with Meron and Capernaum (Gemara, Pe- 
sachim, fob 33, a), and also by Peter Apollonius (De 
excid. I lierosol. p. 63). Jerome, on several occasions, 
states a tradition that the parents of the'apostle Paul 
emigrated thence to Tarsus (Kelaiul, Palast. p. 813). 


The same Hebrew name likewise occurs in Ilottinge* 
(Cippi 1 lehr aid, p. 56) and in Benjamin of Tudela (p, 
108). Schwarz erroneously identifies it (Palcest. p. 
198) with the Aiilab (q. v.) of the tribe of Asher 
(Judg. i, 31). Dr. Robinson found the site in the 
modern El-Jish , on a hill about two hours north-west 
of Safed ; the village had recently been totally de- 
stroyed by an earthquake, but was then partly rebuilt 
(Researches, iii, 368 sq.). 

Gislebert. See Gilbert. 

Gislebertus Porretanus. See Gilbert. 

Gis'pa (Ilcb. Gishpa ' , flattery or hearken- 

ing; Sept. Ef(T0rtc,Yulg. Gasjiha), one of the two over- 
seers of the Xethinim in Opliel at Jerusalem, after the 
captivity (Neh. xi, 21) ; but whether he was himself 
also of that class is not stated, although this is proba- 
ble from the. fact that his associate Ziba was (Ezra ij, 
43). B.C. 446. 

Gitta (rd rirra), a town of Samaria, mentioned 
by Justin XI arty r (Apol. ii), Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. i, 
13), Zonarus (from Justin, xi, p.567), Theodoret ( Com - 
pend, haret.fah. i), and bj 7 Epiplianius (adv. liar. p. 
55) and Athanasius (Hist. Eccles. p. 15), as the birth- 
place of Simon Magus; thought bv some to be the 
Gatii (q. v.) of Scripture (Behind, Paleest. p. 813, 814), 
hut discovered by Bobinson (Researches, iii, 144) in the 
modern Knryet-Jit , a village rather more than two 
hours west of Nablus (comp. Schwarz, Palest, p. 131). 

Another Gitta (Ftr-S’d) is mentioned by Josephus 
(IFm*, i, 17, 2) as a fortress at Maclnerus (q. v.). 

Git'tah-he'pher (Ileb. Gift ah Che'pher, J“i“ 5 
“Sn, Sept. rtSaityep, Vulg. Gethhepher ), a prolonged 
form (Josh, xix, 13) of the name Gatii-iiepher (q.v.). 

Gitta'im (Heb. Gitta' yim, two wine-presses ; 

Sept. rC^aip and r&Sciip'), a place incidentally men- 
tioned in 2 Sam. iv, 3, where the meaning appears to 
be that the inhabitants of Beeroth, which was allotted 
to Benjamin, had been compelled to fly from that place, 
and had taken refuge at Gittaim. Beeroth was one 
| of the towns of the Gibeonites (Josh, ix, 17) ; and the 
i cause of the flight of its people may have been Saul’s 
l persecution of the Gibeonites alluded to in 2 8am. xxi, 
2 ; although the above text seems to intimate that the 
flight was through consternation at the death of Ab- 
| ner, and fear of vengeance for the murder of Ishbo- 
sheth. Sec Beer. The inhabitants, doubtless, soon 
returned. Gittaim is again mentioned in the list of 
] daces inhabited b} r the Benjamites after their return 
from the captivity, with Hamah, Neballat, Lod, and 
other known towns of Benjamin to the noith-wcst of 
Jerusalem (Neh. xi, 33). — Smith, s. v. Schwartz 
j (Phys. Descr. of Palest, p. 134) identifies Gittaim with 
Rumleh (Arimatii.ea) on the strength of certain Jew- 
ish traditions; which is not impossible, since Lydda 
was occupied by the Benjamites, and other associated 
cities seem to have been located in this neighborhood. 

I See Lod; Hadid. 

“ Gittaim occurs in the Sept, version of 1 Sam. xiv, 
33 — ‘Out of Getthaim roll me a great stone.’ But 
this is not supported by any other of the ancient ver- 
sions, which unanimously adhere to the Hebrew text, 
and probably proceeds from a mistake or corruption of 
the l lob. word ZTflZ ; A. V. ‘ye have transgressed.’ 
It fuitlier occurs in the Sept, in Gen. xxxvi, 35, and 
1 Chron.i, 46, as the representative of A vith, a change 
not so intelligible as the other, and equally unsupport- 
ed by the other old versions” (Smith, s. w). 

Gittin. See Talmud. 

Git'tite (Ilcb. GittT , ; Sept. rtOnior), an in- 

habitant or native properly of the Philistine city Gatii 
(Josh, xiii, 3). Obed-Edom, in v r hose bouse the ark 
was for a time placed (2 Sam. vi, 10), and who after- 
i wards served in Jerusalem (1 Chron. xvi, 38), although 


GITTITH 


879 


GLANVIL 


a Levite (1 Chron. xxvi, 4), is called a Gittite (2 Sam. 
vi, 10), possibly because he had been with David when 
at Gath, but much more probably from his being a na- 
tive of Gath-eimmon, which was a city of that family 
of the Levites to which he belonged (Josh, xxi, 24). 
There seems to he no reason for extending this inter- 
pretation to lttai (2 Sam. xv, 19), seeing that Da- 
vid expressly calls him “a stranger” (foreigner), and, 
what is more, “ail exile.” He was at the head of 
600 men, who were also Gittites, for they are called 
(ver. 20) his “brethren.” They appear to have form- 
ed a foreign troop of experienced warriors, chiefly from 
Gath, in the pay and service of David, which they had 
perhaps entered in the lirst instance for the sake of 
sharing in the booty obtainable in his Avars.- — Kitto, s. 
v. See Ciieretiiite. 

Git'tith (Heb. Gittith' , rPFlii, prob. for F2M, and 
so kindred with Negixoth), a stringed instrument of 
music (Psa. viii, 1 ; lxxxi, 1 ; lxxxiv, 1). The term 
is not to be derived (with the Targums) from the city 
Gatii, nor (with the Sept, v—fp tojv Xijviov ) from a 
wine-press (as a vintage-song, Michael. Sujypl. p. 382); 
but from the root to strike (Redslob, Deprcecepto 
Mus ., etc., Lips. 1831, p. 24), Gesenius, Thes. Jlebr. p. 
849. On the other hand, Fiirst (Concord, p. 256) de- 
rives it from rra, to derpen, and calls it “a musical 
instrument curved and hollow (syn. ^ n lpH);” Avliercas 
in his Jleb. Lex. p. 304, he says it is the name of “a 
musical body of Levites Avho had their chief seat in the 
Levitical city of Gath-rimmon, the Avord in the titles 
of Psalms not being capable of an interpretation refer- 
ring to instruments or airs.” Sec Psalms. 

Gizoh. See Gizoxite. 

Gi'zonite (Heb. Avith the art. hag-Gizoni “VlSil • 
S.ept. 6 CiZuivinjQ v. r. Twin'/, Vulg. Gezanites), an in- 
habitant of Gizoii (Heb. Gizoh', i*n3\, perhaps quarry ), 
a place unknown except as the residence of Hashem, 
the ancestor of two of the sons of David’s Avarriors (1 
Chron. xi, 34). As these are called Ilararites (i. e. 
“mountaineers”) in this as Avell as the parallel pas- 
sage (2 Sam. xxiii, 32, 34), we may perhaps infer that 
the city in question Avas situated someAvhere in the 
mountains of Judah. The conclusion of Kennicott, 
Avho examines the passage at length, is that the name 
should be Gouni , a proper name, and not an appella- 
tive (Dissert, p. 199-203). See Guxi. 

Gizrite. See Gezrite. 

Glagolita, Glagolitza, Glagolites (derived 
from the Slavonic Glagol , a word'), “an ancient Sla- 
A r onic alphabet, principally used in several Roman 
Catholic dioceses of Istria and Dalmatia, in the psalms, 
liturgies, and offices of the Church. The use of this 
liturgy Avas confirmed to the priesthood by a bull of 
pope innocent IV, 1248. Of the antiquity of this al- 
phabet the savans have maintained a great variety 
of opinions. Dobrowsky laid the foundation of a crit- 
ical investigation of the subject, and has been followed 
by lvopitar, Jacob Grimm, Ivan Preis, Schafarik. etc. 
In former times the invention Avas sometimes ascribed 
to St. Jerome ; while the Orientals, according to Neale, 
consider it as a mere corruption and Latinization of 
the Cyrillic alphabet. According to the recent re- 
searches of Schafarik, it Avas invented by Cyril, and is, 
consequently, older than Avhat is iioav called the Cyril- 
lic alphabet (Kyrilliszer), the author of Avliich \vas 
bishop Clement of Welitza (died 916). Grimm found 
in some Glagolitic letters Runic characters. The Gla- 
golitic literature embraces all South Slavic Avorks Avhich 
are Avritten in the Glagolitic alphabet. According to 
language and form of the letters, tAvo periods may be 
distinguished — an earlier and a later one. Among the 
important documents of the earlier period Avhich are 
still extant are a Glagolitic manuscript of the 11th 


I century, belonging to count Kloz, published by Kopb 
tar under the title Glagolit i Clozianus (956 lines, Vien- 
na, 1836) ; a gospel Avhich in 1736 avus brought by J. S. 
Assemani from Jerusalem to Rome, is preserved there 
in the Vatican, but is not yet printed; the Abecenari- 
um Bulgaricum, at Paris "(published in the Nouveau 
traite de diplomatique [Paris, 1750], and more fully by 
Kopitar in the Glagolita Clozianus ); a gospel which 
Victor Gregorovich, of Kasan, purchased on Mount 
Athos (fragments in Miklosich’s Slavic Library [Vien- 
na, 1857, vol. i]). The resemblance bet\\ r een the lan- 
guage of these documents and the language of the Old- 
Sliivonic documents written in the Cyrillic alphabet, 
is the greater the more ancient the latter are. The 
younger period of the Glagolitic literature embraces 
the translations into the South Slavic dialects of the 
Ngav Testament by Primus Timber (about the middle 
of the 16th century), of the Avhole Bible by Dalmatin 
(Witten. 1584), of the Augsburg Confession, of the 
j Catechisms of Luther, etc. In some of these works 
partly the Glagolitic and partly the Cyrillic alphabet 
Avas used.” (See DobroAvsky, Glagolitica [Prague, 
1807] — Avho puts the origin of the Glagolitic alphabet 
erroneously in the 13th century ; Hofler and Schafarik, 
Glayolitische Fragmente [Prague, 1856] : Schafarik, Ue- 
ber Ursprung u. Ileimath des Glagolitismus [Prague, 
1858]; Sillem, Primus Truber [Erlangen, 1861]. The 
Glagolitic alphabet is gh'en in Bagster’s Bible of Eve- 
ry Land , p. liv). — Allgem. Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; Neale, 
Holy Eastern Church , Introduction , ii, 823. (A. J. S.) 

Glanvil, Joseph, an eminent English divine and 
philosopher, Avas horn at Plymouth in 1636. He grad- 
uated at Exeter College, Oxford, in 1655, and in 1656 
he removed to Lincoln College, Avhere he took his de- 
gree of M.A. in 1658. Although a friend of Baxter, 
at the Restoration he conformed to the Church ; he 
also became a convert to the principles of the Baconian 
philosophy ; and AA'hen he had just entered his tAventv- 
, fifth year lie Avrote a treatise in defense of them, under 
the title of The Vanity of Dogmatizing, or Confidence in 
Opinions , Avith An Apology for Philosophy (1661, 12mo). 
j About this time he entered into orders, and was pre- 
sented to the rectory of Wimbisli and to the A'icarage 
j of Frome-SelA\'ood. In 1662 he published Lux Orien- 
talis , or an Inquiry into the Opinion of the Eastern Sages 
concerning the Pre-existence of Souls (12mo). In 1665 
he published Scepsis Scienfifica, or Confessed Ignorance 
the Wag to Science, a modified edition of The Vanity of 
Dogmatizing (4to). It A\'as dedicated to the Royal So- 
ciety, of Avhich he Avas noAV chosen a member. Tenne- 
mann remarks that in this treatise Glanvil enlarged 
Avith ability on the causes of doubt, and applied them 
to the different departments of science, more particu- 
larly the discoveries in physics effected in his oavu 
time. His remarks on Causality, in Avhich he coin- 
cides with those of Algazel, and appears to haA r e fore- 
stalled Hume, deserve especial attention. “ We do 
not,” says he, “detect the existence of any cause im- 
mediately by sensational or intuitional perception, but 
only by mediate representations, and therefore hy in- 
ference, Avhich may be erroneous.” The credit Avhich 
he had acquired by his Avritings encouraged him in 
1666 to deliver his sentiments upon the subject of 
witchcraft, the existence of Avliich be endeavored to 
defend in Some Philosophical Considerations touching the 
Being of Witches and Witchcraft (Lond. 1666, 4to), an 
enlarged edition of Avhich Avas published by Henry 
More under the title Sadducismus Triumphans (Lond. 
1682, 8vo). He Avrote also Essays on Subjects in Phi- 
losophy and Religion (Lond. 1676, 4to) : — Essay concern- 
ing Preaching (London, 1678, 12mo), and other smaller 
Avorks. About this time he Avas presented to the ree- 
tory of the Abbey Church at Bath. He died of fever 
Nov. 4, 1680. After his death a A'olnme of his Dis- 
courses , Sermons , and Remains appeared, edited by Dr. 
llorneck, who Avrote a eulogA r upon him. — Ilook, Eccl. 
Biog. v, 325; Tennemann, Manual Hist. Philos. § 343; 


GLASS 


GLAPHYRA 


380 


Bavle. General Diet . v, 435 ; Lecky, History of Ration- 
alising i, 1*21 sq. 

Glaphyra (VXatpvpa, eleyant ), daughter of Arelie- 
laus, king of Cappadocia ; married to Alexander, soil 
of Herod the Great (Josephus, Ant . xvi, 1, 2). She 
quarreled with Salome (ib. xvii, 7, 2), who, in revenge, 
fomented Herod’s jealousy against Alexander (War, 
i, 24, 2, 3), which eventuated in the death of the latter. 
See Alexander 9. She remained faithful to her hus- 
band (.1 h/. xvi, 10, 7), and after his execution she re- 
turned to her father (17, 1), although her two sons by 
Alexander were brought up by Ilerod (ib. 2). She af- 
terwards married Juba, king of Lydia, and at his death 
again returned to her father, but subsequently mar- 
ried Herod Archelaus, who divorced for her sake his 
former wife Mariamne, but she soon died, in accord- 
ance with a dream in which her first husband re- 
proached her for her repeated inconstancy (ib. xvii, 
13, 4). 

Glareanus, IIeinricii Loriti, was born at Mol- 
lis, in the canton of Glares (hence his name), in Switz- 
erland, June, 1488 ; studied philosophy, belles-let- 
tres, and theology at Itottweil and Cologne, and in 
1512 became poet laureate of the emperor Maximil- 
ian I. He took part in the controversies between 
Bench! in and the old-school systems ; went to Basel in 
1514, to Italy in 1515, and in 1517 visited Paris, where 
he gave private instruction in the classics ; returning 
afterwards to Basel, he opened a school there. He 
showed himself at first favorable to the principles of 
the Be form at ion, but abandoned them afterwards : and 
when Protestantism gained Basel, he retired with Eras- 
mus to Freiburg, where he became professor of litera- 
ture and history. lie gave up this situation in 15G0, 
and died March 27, 15G3. Glareanus was a very learn- 
ed man, and especially in the theory and history of 
music. Iiis Dodecachordon (Basel, 1547) is valuable 
as a picture of the state of music in his age. — II. Schrei- 
ber, Lebensbesch rcibnn y (Freib. 1837); Pierer, Univer- 
sal- Lexikoti, s. v. ; llerzog, Real-Encyldapadie , v, 165. 
(J. N. P.) 

Glas or Glass, John, founder of the sectofGlass- 
ites, was born at Auchtermuty, Sept. 21, 1C95. He was 
educated at St.Andrew’s, and in 1719 became minister 
of Tealing. In 1727 he published a book to prove that 
Church establishments are inconsistent with the Gos- 
pel, for which he was deposed by the General Assem- 
bly. He imbibed a number of other peculiar opinions 
and gathered followers, who w’ere called by his name 
in Scotland, but in England and America they were 
denominated Sandemanians. Glas died at Dundee in 
1773. His works w r ere published at Edinburgh in 4 
vols. 8vo, and in a second edition at Perth (1782, 5 
vols. 8vo). Among the most celebrated members of 
the sect was Michael Faraday. For the peculiar opin- 
ions of the sect, see Sandemanians. 

Glass (the material is perhaps denoted by 
zelcukitti , rock “crystal,” Job xxviii, 17 ; iViAor, crys- 
tal , “glass,” Pev. xxi, 18, 21; and hence the adj. 
vaXivor, crystalline, “of glass,” Pev. iv, 6; xv, 2 
[see Crystal]; the instrument or looking-glass by 
V*-?- yd lay on' , a tablet , “roll,” Isa. viii, 1; il y T as$f 
i. e. mirror , Isa. iii, 23; marah', a “vision,” 

as usually rendered ; “ looking-glass,” Exod. xxxviii, 
8 ; HTOTrrpon, a mirror , “glass,” 1 Cor. xiii, 12 ; Jas. i, 
23 [see Mirror]), according to Pliny (11. Xat. xxxvi, 
26), was discovered by what is termed accident. Some 
merchants kindled a fire on that part of the coast of 
Phoenicia which lies near Ptolemais, between the foot 
of Carmel and Tyre, at a spot where the river Bolus 
casts the line sand which it brings down ; but, as they 
were without the usual means of suspending their 
cooking vessels, they employed for that purpose logs 
of nitre, their vessel being laden with thiit substance : 
the fire fusing the nitre and the sand produced glass. 


[ He proceeds to state that the Sidonians, in whose vi- 
| cinity the discovery was made, took it up, and, having 
in process of time carried the art to a high degree of 
excellence, gained thereby both wealth and fame ; 
other nations became their pupils; the Romans espe- 
! cially attained to very high skill in the art of fusing, 
blowing, and coloring glass ; finally, even glass mir- 
rors were invented by the Sidonians. This account 
of Pliny is in substance corroborated by Strabo (xvi, 
15) and by Josephus (War, ii, 9). But this account 
is less likely than the supposition that vitreous matter 
first attracted observation from the custom of lighting 
fires on the sand “in a country producing natron or 
subcarbonate of soda” (ltawlinson’s Herod, ii, 82). It 
has been pointed out that Pliny’s story may have orig- 
inated in the fact that the sand of the Syrian river 
Belus, at the mouth of which the incident is supposed 
' to have occurred, “was esteemed peculiarly suitable 
for glass-making, and exported in great quantities to 
the workshops of Sidon and Alexandria, long the most 
famous in the ancient world” (Smith, Did. of Class. 
Ant. s. v. Vitrnm, where everything requisite to the il- 
lustration of the classical allusions to glass may be 
found). Some find a remarkable reference to this lit- 
tle river (respecting which, see Pliny, Hist. Xat. v, 17 ; 
xxxvi, G5 ; Josephus, War, ii, 10, 2; Tacitus, Ilist. v, 
7) in the blessing to the tribe of Zebulun, “they shall 
suck of the abundance of the seas, and of treasures hid 
in the sanil” (Deut. xxxiii, 19). Both the name Belus 
(Poland, Palccst. p. 2G7) and the Hebrew word bin 
“sand,” have been suggested as derivations for the 
Greek raXoc, which is, however, in all probability, 
from an Egyptian root. See Belus. Some suppose 
that the proper name (“burnings by the 

waters”) contains an allusion to Sidonian glass-faeto- 
, rics (Meier on Jos. xi, 8 ; xiii, G), but it is much more 
probable that it was so called from the burning of Ja- 
bin’s chariots at that place (Lord A. Hervev, On the 
Genealogies , p. 228), or from hot springs. See Misre- 

rilOTIl-MAIM. 

Yet, notwithstanding the above explicit statement, 
it was long denied that the ancients were acquainted 
with glass properly so called ; nor did the denial en- 
tirely disappear even when Pompeii offered evidences 
of its want of foundation. Our knowledge of Egypt 
has, however, set the matter at rest. Wilkinson, in 
his Ancient Egyptians (iii, 88 sq.), has adduced the 
fullest evidence that glass was known to and made by 
that ingenious people at a very early period of their 
national existence. Upwards of 3500 years ago, in 
the reign of the first Osirtascn, they appear to have 
J practised the art of blowing glass. The process is 
represented in the paintings of Beni-IIassan, executed 
in the reign of that monarch. In the same age images 
of ylazed pottery were common. Ornaments of glass 
were made by them about 1500 years B.C. ; for a bead 
of that date has been found, being of the same specific 
gravity as that of our crown glass. Many glass bot- 
tles, etc., have been met with in the tombs, some of 
very remote antiquity. Glass vases were used for 
holding wine as early as the Exode. In Egypt they 
had the advantage not only of an earlier application to 
the art, but also of a peculiar earth, which appears to 
have been necessary to the production of some of the 
more valuable and brilliant kinds of glass (Beckman, 
History of Inventions, “ Colored Glass,” i, 195 sq., Eng. 
transl. ; also iii, 208 sq. ; iv, 54). Yet the perfectly 
clear and transparent glass was considered the most 
valuable (Pliny, xxxvi, 2G). Indeed, a great part of 
the glass-ware used at Pome about the Christian icra 
and subsequently came from Alexandria ; and the em- 
peror Hadrian was presented by an Egyptian priest 
with some vases which were reckoned so fine that they 
were produced only on grand occasions (Strabo, 1. 
xvii ; Vopiscus in Vita Saturnini, c. 8). Wilkinson 
states respecting the Egyptians, “ Such was their skill 


GLASS 


881 


GLASS 


i \A% : 

c '%■ 


42). They also employed it not 
anly for drinking utensils and 
ornaments of the person, but 
for mosaic work, the figures of 
deities, and sacred emblems, 
attaining to exquisite work- 
manship and a surprising bril- 
liancy of color. Their imita- 
tion of precious stones in a 
manner which often defied de- 
tection (Pliny, 1 list. Naturalis , 
xxxvii, 26, 33, 75) is probably 
the explanation of the incredi- 
bly large gems which we find 
mentioned in ancient authors; 
e. g. Larcher considers that 
the emerald column alluded to 
by Herodotus (ii, 44) was “du 
vcrre colore, dont Pinterieur 
etait eclaire par des lampes.” 
The art, too, of cutting glass 
was known to them at the most 
remote periods; for which pur- 
pose, as we learn from Pliny 
Ancient Egyptian Glass-blowers: 1, from the monuments at Beni-liussnn ; 2, from (Hist. Naturalis xxxvii 4 s ) the 
Thebes. The glass at the end of the blow-pipe b b is colored green; a is the fire; (/, \ ‘ V 




a glass bottle. 

in the manufacture of glass, and in the mode of staining 
it of various lines, that they counterfeited with success 
the amethyst and other precious stones, and even ar- 
rived at an excellence in the art which their successors 
have been unable to retain, and which our European 
workmen, in spite of their improvements in other 
branches of this manufacture, are still unable to imi- 
tate. For not only do the colors of some Egyptian 
opaque glass offer the most varied devices on the ex- 
terior, distributed with the regularity of a studied de- 
sign, but the same hue and the same devices pass in 
right lines directly through the substance ; so that in 
whatever part it is broken, or wherever a section may 
chance to be made of it, the same appearance, the same 
colors, and the same device present themselves, with- 
out being found ever to deviate from the direction of a 
straight line, from the external surface to the interior” 
(Ancient Egypt, iii, 193). Winckelmann is of opinion 
that glass was employed more frequently in ancient 
than in modern times. It was sometimes used by the 
Egyptians even for coffins, and in wainscoting ( u vi- 
treaj camera,” Ilht. Nat. xxxvi, 64 ; Stat. Sylv. i, v, 



diamond was used. See En- 
grave. 

The art of manufacturing glass was also known to 
the ancient Assyrians 
(Layard, Ninev. ii, 42), 
and a glass bottle was 
found in the north-west 
palace of Nimrud which 
has on it the name of 
Sargon, and is there- 
fore probably olderthan 
B.C. 702 (id. Nin. and 
Bab. p. 167). This is 
the earliest known spe- 
cimen of transparent 
glass. Opaque colored 
glass was manufactured 
by the Assyrians at a 
much earlier period, 
and some specimens 
exist of the 15th centu- 
ry 13. C. The Sargon 
vase had been blown in one piece, and turned and hol- 
lowed out afterwards. In the mounds of Babylon 
were likewise found small glass bottles, some colored, 
others ribbed and otherwise ornamented, and vases of 
earthen-ware of various forms and sizes, sometimes 
glazed with a rich blue color (ib. p. 429). 



Glass Bottle from Nimi\‘.d. 



Glass Bottles and glazed Ear then- ware Vessel from the Mound 
of Bab.l. 



Glass Bottles and Jugs. From the Tombs of Egypt. 
III.— K K K 


Other glass vessels of the Roman period were else- 
where discovered (ib. p. 504). With the glass bowls 
was discovered a rock-crystal lens, which must have 
been used as a magnifying or burning-glass (ib. p. 167). 
In later times glass was abundant for similar purposes 
among the Romans, as is evident from the specimens 
disinterred from the ruins of Pompeii. See Bottle. 

That glass was known to the Hebrews- appears be- 
yond a doubt ; but whether they brought a knowledge 
of its manufacture with them out of Egypt, or learned 
it from their Sidonian neighbors, is uncertain. Wheth- 
er the} r used it for mirrors is doubtful. In Job xxviii, 
17, !"P2*!3T is believed to mean glass, though it is ren- 


GLASS 


882 


GLASS 



Glass Vases from Pompeii. 


dered “crystal” in the English version. It comes 
from T\ (to be pure ), and, according to the best au- 
thorities, means a kind of glass which in ancient days 
was held in high esteem (J. I). Michaelis, Hist. Yitri 
upud Ifebr. ; and Hamberger, Hist. Yitri ex antiquitate 
eruta, quoted by Gesenius, s. v.). Symmachus renders 
it KpvGTaWoQ, but that is rather intended by 
(Job xxviii, IS, A. V. “pearls,” Sept, yafiig, a word 
which also means “ice;” comp. Pliny, //. X. xxxvii, 
2) and rnj? (Ezek. i, 22). It seems, then, that Job 
xxviii, 17 contains the only allusion to glass found in 
the O. T., and even this reference is disputed. Bc- 
sides Symmachus, others also render it ciavyij icpvt r- 
raXXov (Schleusner, Thesaur . s. v. I'aXof), and it is ar- 
gued that the word vaXog frequently means crystal. 
Thus the Schol. on Aristoph. Xub . 7G4, defines oaAoe 
(when it occurs in old writers) as hatpavig: XiQog ioi- 
K-ujg vdXqj. and ITesychins gives as its equivalent XiOog 
ri/uog. In Herodotus (iii, 24) it is clear that ueAoe 
must mean crystal, for he says, i) Ik o<pt 7toXA)) i cat tvep- 
yor opvGGtrai, and Achilles Tatius speaks of crystal 
as t'aAog opmpvyptvr} (ii, 3; Bahr, On Ilerod. ii, 44; 
Hceren, Ideen, II, i, 335). Others consider ^2^ T to 
be amber, or electrum, or alabaster (Bochart, Hieroz. 
11, vi, 872). In the New Testament the word employ- 
ed is mAoe (compare Aristoph. Xubes , 7G8). In Bev. 
xxi, 18 we read, “The city was pure gold, like unto 
clear glass ver. 23, “as it were transparent glass” 
(compare iv, 6). ]\lention is made in Bev. iv, 6, and 
xv, 2, of a sea of glass like unto crystal, concerning 
the meaning of which interpreters vary ; but is is prob- 
ably an allusion to the brazen sea spoken of in 1 Kings 
vii, 23, and elsewhere, containing water for the priests 
to wash with, that they might not minister before God 
under any pollution. “Molten looking-glass” also oc- 
curs in Job xxxvii, 18; but the original "'SC}, speculum, 
and its corresponding word in Exod. xxxviii, 8, author- 
ize the translation “mirror” — that is, of some metal. 
Indeed, Beckman (Beitrdge znr Gesch. der Erfindung , 
iii, 319) erroneously denies that glass mirrors were 
known till the 33th century, adding that they are still 
seldom seen in the East. It is certain, however, that 
glass was not applied in ancient times to windows ; 
when these were not, as they commonly were in the 
East, simply open apertures by day, with wooden doors 
placed on them by night, a kind of semi-transparent 
stone, a sort of tale, called lapis specidaris , was gener- 
ally used, and continued to be so for centuries after 
the Christian nera. See Window. 

It is a singular fact, that although the ancients were 
aware of the reflective power of glass, and although 
the Sidonians used it for mirrors (Pliny, II. X. xxxvi, 
G6), yet for some unexplained reason mirrors of glass 
must have proved unsuccessful, since even under the 
Roman empire they were universally made of metal, 
which is at once less perfect, more expensive, and more 
difficult to preserve. See Smith, Diet, of Class. Ant. 
s. v. Speculum. Accordingly, the mirrors found in 
Egypt arc made of mixed metal, chiefly copper. So 


admirably did the skill of the Egyptians succeed in 
the composition of metals, that their mirrors were sus- 
ceptible of a polish which has been but partially re- 
vived at the present day. The mirror was nearly 
round, having a handle of wood, stone, or metal. r I he 
form varied with the taste of the owner. The same 
kind of metal mirror was used by the Israelites, who 
doubtless brought it from Egypt. In Exod. xxxviii, 
8, it is expressly said that Moses “made the la ver of 
brass of the looking-glasses (brazen mirrors) of the 
women.” In the East mirrors had a connection with 
the observances of religion ; females held them before 
the images of the goddesses, thereby manifesting their 
own humility as servants of the divinities, and betok- 
ening the prevalence in private life of a similar cus- 
tom (Callimnch. Hymn, in Pal lad. 21 ; Senec. Ep. 95 ; 
Cyril , De A dor at. in Spir. ii, G4). That in the New 
Testament a mirror is intended in James i, 23, “ be- 
holding his natural face in a glass,” appears certain ; 
but the other passage, in which the word ’iaoTrrpov oc- 
curs (1 Cor. xiii, 12), seems to require an imperfectly 
transparent medium, through which objects are be- 
held. What the precise substance was which the apos- 
tle thought of when he used the words it may not be 
easy to determine. It could not well be ordinary 
glass, for that was transparent. It may have been the 
lapis specidaris, or a kind of talc, of which the ancients 
made their windows. This opinion is confirmed by 
Schleusner, who says that the Jews used a similar 
mode of expression to describe a dim and imperfect 
view of mental objects (Sehottgen, Hor. Heb . ad loe.). 
(See Michaelis, Hist. Yitri ap. Heb. in Comment. Soc. 
Goetting. iv, 57 ; also I)r. Falconer on “ the Knowledge 
of the Ancients respecting Glass,” in the Memoirs of 
the Lit. and Phil. Soc. of Manchester, ii, 9G ; Becker’s 
Charities, i, 132; Michaelis, Supplem. p. 613; Pareau, 
Comment, on Job xxviii, p. 316; Hamberger, Yitri Hist., 
in the Comment. Soc. Gott. 1754; Hirsch, Gcschichte. d. 
Bauhmst, iii, G6.) — Kitto, s. v. ; Snvth, s. v. See 
Looking-glass. 

Glass-painting is of three kinds : (1) the mosaic , 
in which pieces of differently-colored glass are so cut 
out and arranged as to represent figures or scenes, the 
pieces being joined together with lead ; (2) the enamel , 
in which the colors arc laid on a plate of glass and 
then burnt in ; and (3) the mosaic-enamel , which is a 
union of the two others, and is by far the most effec- 
tive kind of glass-painting. The art probably had its 
origin in France or Germany during the tenth century. 
The mosaic style prevailed till the fourteenth century. 
Glass-painting reached its highest state in the fifteenth 
and sixteenth centuries. After the rise of t he Benais- 
sanee architecture in the sixteenth century, glass- 
painting fell into decadence. It has been quite suc- 
cessfully revived during the last thirty years in Ger- 
many. — Warrington, History of Stained Glass (Lon- 
don, 1850) ; Wackernagel, Gcschichte der deiitschen Glas - 
malerei (Leipzig, 1855). (G. F. C.) 

Glass or Glassius, Salomo, a German theologi- 
an, eminent both for piety and learning, was born at 
Sondershausen, Thuringia, in 1593. lie was educated 
at the universities of Wittenberg and Jena, and devo- 
ted himself at an early period specially to the study of 
Hebrew and its cognate languages. He became in 
1G37 professor of theology at Jena, and in 1640 was 
made superintendent of the churches and schools in 
Saxe-Gotha. In this office he acquitted himself with 
great zeal and success, laboring for the spiritual as 
well as intellectual well-being of the churches of the 
duchy. He died at Gotha July 27, 3G56. llis works 
are, Philologia Sacra (4to) : — Onomatologia Mt ssia> Pro- 
phctica (Jena, 1G24, 4 to) : — Disputationes in Augusta* 
nam Cmfessionem.: — Exegesis Evangeliorum et Epist ala- 
rum (Gotha, 1647, 4to; Nuremb. 1664, fob): — Christo - 
logia Mosaica (Jena, 1649, 4 to) : — Christ ologia DaridiCa 
I (Jena, 1638, 4to): — Loci Thcologici (posthumous, Go- 


GLASTONBURY 


883 


GLEDE 


tha, 1GG1, 8vo, and Jena, 1731, 8vo, with a preface on 
the Life and Writings of Glassius). The best edition 
of the Pkilologia Sacra, as Glass left it, is that of Leip- 
sig, 1725, 4to; the edition of Bathe and Bauer (Lips. 
1776-1797, 3 vols. 8vo) contains valuable additions by 
the editors, but is tainted with the vices of the low ra- 
tionalistic period in which it appeared. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. v, 1G7 sq. ; Hoefer, Kouv. Biog. Gtnerule , xx, 
795-6. 

Glastonbury, “an ancient municipal burg and 
market-town in the county of Somerset, twenty-five 
miles south-west of Bath, is built in the form of a cross, 
and occupies a peninsula formed by the river Brue or 
Brent, called the Isle of Avalon. Pop. (18G1) 3593. 
The town owes its origin to its celebrated abbey, which, 
according to tradition, was founded in A.D. GO, and 
was one of the earliest seats of Christianity in Britain. 
Its traditionary founder was Joseph of Arimathea, and 
the ‘miraculous thorn,’ which flowered on Christmas- 
d:iy, was, till the time of the Puritans, believed by the 
common people to be the veritable staff with which 
Joseph aided his steps from the Holy Land. The tree 
was destroyed during the civil wars, but grafts from 
it still flourish in the neighboring gardens. In A.D. 
G05 the monks adopted the dress and rules of the Ben- 
edictine order. This magnificent pile at one time cov- 
ered sixty acres; but as most of the houses in Glas- 
tonbury, and also a causeway across Sedgemoor, have 
been constructed of the materials, the extent of the 
ruins is now much diminished. The most interest- 
ing remains are the Abbey Church, with St. Joseph's 
Chapel, St. Mary’s Chapel, and the Abbot’s Kitchen. 
St. Joseph’s Chapel is one of the most elegant speci- ( 
mens in existence of the transition from Norman to ' 
earl}’- English architecture, and is supposed to have I 
been erected during the reigns of Henry 11 and Rich- 
ard 1. It is now roofless, and the vaulting of the crypt 
is nearly destroyed. The entrance is adorned with 
sculpture. Below the floor is a Norman crypt, within 
which is St. Joseph’s Well. Of the Abbey Church 
few fragments remain. The Chapel of St. Mary is 
roofless, but the remains of its pointed windows and 1 
arches are exceedingly elegant. The Abbot’s Kiteh- | 
en, now separate from the rest of the ruins, is a square I 
massive structure, the walls strongly buttressed, and 
dates from about the 15th century. Glastonbury has 
the honor of ranking St. Patrick (A.D. 415) and St. 
Dunstan among its abbots. In 1539 Henry Till 
summoned abbot Whiting to surrender Glastoubury 
and all its treasures ; and on his refusal, condemned 
him to be hanged and quartered, and the monastery 
confiscated to the king’s use, which sentence was im- 
mediately carried into execution. According to tradi- 
tion, king Arthur and his queen Gninever were buried 
in the cemetery of the abbey; and Giraldus Cambren- 
sis states that ‘ a leaden cross, bearing the following 
inscription, “ llic jacet sepultus inelvtus Rex Arthurus 
in insula A vallonia,” was found under a stone seven 
feet below the surface, and nine feet below this was 
found an oaken coffin, containing dust and bones.’ 
This disinterment took place by order of Henry II. 
The only other objects of interest at Glastonbury are 
the Church of St. Benedict; the Church of St. John 
the Baptist, with a tower 140 feet high ; the Weary- 
all Hill, where Joseph of Arimathea rested from his 
weary pilgrimage; and the Tor Hill, where the last 
abbot of Glastonbury was put to death, 500 feet above 
the sea-level, crowned by a beautiful tower, the ruin 
of a pilgrimage chapel of St. Michael.” — Chambers, 
Eneyclopccdia , s. v. 

Glatz, Jacob, a Protestant clergyman of Hunga- 
ry, was born in 177G at Poprad, studied theology at 
the university of Jena, became in 1797 professor at 
Sehnepfenthal, in 1804 professor at the Protestant 
school of Vienna, in 1805 minister of the Lutheran 
congregation in the same city, resigned in 1826, and 
died in 1831 at Pressburg. He wrote numerous ju- 


venile books, which appeared in many editions ; also 
several pedagogical works. He edited the Annalen 
dec bstreich. Literatur , the Evangelisch-christliche Ge- 
sangbuch , and an agenda ( Kircli enagende) which was 
introduced into the Protestant congregations of Aus- 
tria. — Wenrich, J. Glatz , tine biograph. Sklzze (Vienna, 
1834). (A. J. S.) 

Glean (prop. lakat ' , spoken of grain, Ruth 

ii, elsewhere to “ gather ” field crops generally, Lev, 
xix, 9; xxiii, 22; also VzV, alal' , Lev. xix, 10; Deut. 
xxiv, 21; Judg. xx, 45; Jer. vi, 9; properly spoken 
of grape gleanings, Judg. viii, 2; Isa. xvii, 6;. xxiv, 
13, etc.; and figur. of a small remnant, Jer. xlix, 9; 
Obad. i. 5; Mic. vii, 1). See Corner. The law of 
Moses directed a liberal treatment of the poor at the 
seasons of harvest and ingathering. See Harvest. 
The corners of the field were not to be reaped — the 
owner was not to glean his own fields — and a sheaf 
accidentally left behind in the field was not to be fetch- 
ed away, but left for the poor. There are equally lib- 
eral regulations respecting vineyards and olive-yards 
(Lev. xix, 9, 10 ; Deut. xxiv, 19, 21). Hence the prov- 
erb of Gideon (Judg. viii, 2). The privilege of glean- 
ing after the reapers was conceded not as a matter of 
right, but as a favor granted to particular persons 
whom the owner wished to befriend. It did not, how- 
ever, require any special interest to obtain this favor, 
for Naomi could scarcely have suggested it in the first 
instance, and Ruth might hence have hesitated to ap- 
ply for it to a stranger, “ the servant that was set over 
the reapers.” On two occasions Dr. Robinson speaks 
of witnessing interesting illustrations of harvest scenes 
similar to those in Ruth ( Researches , ii, 371, 384), and 
in the latter he says he frequently saw the process of 
women beating out with a stick handfuls of grain 
which the}' seem to have gleaned ( ib . note). In the 
case of Boaz, young women, recognised as being “his 
maidens,” were gleaning in his field, and on her claim 
upon him by near affinity being made known, she was 
bidden to join them and not go to any other field ; but 
for this, the reapers, it seems, would have driven her 
away (Ruth ii, G, 8, 9). Maimonides lays down the 
principle (Constitntiones de donis pauper um, cap. ii, 1) 
that whatever crop or growth is fit for food, is kept, 
and gathered all at once, and carried into store, is lia- 
ble to that law. (See also Maimon. Const it utiones de 
donis pauperum, cap. iv.) With regard to the vintage, 
what fell to the ground (12^5, Lev. xix, 10), or was 
left after the general gathering, belonged to the poor 
( Peah , vii, 3) ; hence any one placing a vessel under 
the tree to cateh what might accidentally fall was 
held to defraud the poor (Surenhusius, Mishna , i, 5G). 
See Poor. 

Glebe, in England the soil (“gleba,” clod), mead- 
ow, or pasture belonging to a parsonage besides the 
tithes. Glebe-house is the common designation in 
Ireland of the parsonage. 

Glede, the old English name for the common kite 
(tnilvus ater ), occurs only in Deut. xiv, 13 («"I50, raah' ) 
among the unclean birds of prey. But in the parallel 
passage, Lev. xi, 14, we find n>n, daah', “vulture.” 
That this difference has arisen from a permutation of 
the *1 and the 1 is evident, but which is the original 
form of the word is not certain. Bochart decides (//£« 
eroz. ii, 191) for daah on the ground that, assuming 
the bird to be the kite or glede, it is more probable 
that it would receive its name from IlX'n, to Jig swiftly 
than from il&n, to see; while others, presuming that 
it is the vulture, prefer the latter derivation, and the 
reading, consequently, raah , on account of the sharp 
sight of these hirds. But hoth these qualities are 
marked traits of the vulture as well as the kite. Thus 
far the evidence is therefore equal, nor do the versions 
help us to a decision; for while the Sept, gives in 


GLEDE 


884 


GLORIA IN EXCELSIS 


both passages yvxf /, vulture, the Vulg. has milvus , kite, 
iu both. The Codex Samar., however, reads niCl iu 
Deut. xiv, 13, which favors the supposition that this 
is the proper reading; but it still remains uncertain 
whether by this term we are to understand the glede 
or the vulture. The A.V. makes it the one in the one 
passage and the other in the other. As the HKT is 
distinguished from the «“PT (Deut. xiv, 13), and as the 
latter is probably one of the vulture genus (comp. Isa. 
xxxiv, 14), it is probable that the former belongs to 
the kites. The kite has, in comparison with its bulk, 
very long wings, and a forked tail extending beyond 
them.* 4 It is a species that rises to a towering height, 
hangs apparently motionless in the sky, and darts 
down with immense velocity; but the legs and claws 
being weak, it is cowardly, and feeds upon carrion, 
fish, insects, mice, and small birds. About Cairo kites 
are particularly abundant, mixing with the carrion 
vultures in their wheeling flight, and coming in num- 
bers to the daily distribution of food awarded them. 
Hut the question whether the kite of Europe and that 
of Egypt are the same species is not decided, though 
there is no want of scientific names for both species 
found in the valley of the Nile, one of which is cer- 
tainly distinct from the European, and the other, if 
not so, is a strongly-marked variety. We find it no- 



Egyptian Kite ( Milvus ^Egyptiu). 


ticed in various stages of plumage as Milvus Ictinus , 
Milvus Etolius , Savigny ; Falco AEgyptiacus and Falco 
ForskcihHi, Gmelin ; Falco dnereo -ferrvgineus, For- 
fkahl ; Falco A rda, Savigny; probably, also, Falco pa- 
rasiticus, Lath. The bill of this species is dark ; head 
and throat whitish, with brown streaks ; bod}' above 
dark gray brown, pale ferruginous below ; tail but 
slightly forked ; legs yellow. It is found in hiero- 
glyphic paintings, colored with sufficient accuracy not 
to be mistaken. The other species, which we figure 
below as Milvus ater , is the black kite, Falco melanop- 



terus, Daudin ; Elanus Ccesius , Savigny ; Falco Souni - 
nensis, Lath. ; Le Blac , Le Vaill., and the Kouhich of 
the Arabs. It has the head, neck, and back dark rusty 
gray; scapulars bordered with rusty; wing-coverts 
and primaries black, the last-mentioned tipped with 
white ; tail rusty gray above, white beneath ; bill 
dark ; legs yellow. The manners of both sptcles are 
much the same : it is likely that they are equally abun- 
dant at Cairo, and spread into Palestine. — Kitto, s. v. 
Daah. See Hawk. 

Glendy, John, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Derry, Ireland, June 4, i?55, and was educa- 
ted in the University of Glasgow, where, after devoting 
some time to the study of theology, he was licensed 
and ordained. He subsequently accepted a call from 
the Church in Londonderry, where he remained till 
the Irish insurrection of 1738 obliged him to leave his 
native land, lie arrived in Norfolk, Va., in 1799, and 
shortly after supplied the congregations of Staunton 
and Bethel, in Augusta Co., for nearly tw’o years. He 
made the acquaintance of Washington and Jefferson, 
and was held in high estimation as a minister. In 
1803 he w r as inducted as pastor of the Second Pres- 
byterian congregation at Baltimore, and served the 
House of Representatives and the Senate as chaplain, 
lie died Oct. 4,1832. He published A n Oration in Com- 
memoration of Washington, 1800: — A Prayer offered on 
the 4 th of July , 1821. — Sprague, Annals , iv, 229. 

Glenorchy, Lady Wiliielmina Maxwell, dis- 
tinguished for her benevolence and piety, was born at 
Preston, Scotland, Sept. 2, 1741. Iler early years, 
though sedulously watched over by her kind and in- 
telligent mother, were nevertheless too much devoted 
to the follies and gayetv of fashionable life. When 
she had attained the age of twenty -three years, her 
mind was aroused by a serious illness to reflections on 
her present character and future prospects; and mus- 
ing on the first question in the Assembly’s Catechism, 
“What is the chief end of man?” — “ It is to glorify 
God, and enjoy him forever,” she asked herself, Have 
I answered the design of mv being? Have I glorified 
God? Shall I enjoy him forever? Thus reflecting, 
she gradually felt the sinfulness of her nature, per- 
ceived the total alienation of her heart from God, and 
applied to her heavenly Father through Christ for par- 
don and grace. The remainder of her life was distin- 
guished by the consistency of her deportment. 8 he 
employed much of her time in acts of benevolence ; iu 
wise and pious conversation; in an extensive, judi- 
cious, and profitable correspondence ; and in every oth- 
er means for promoting the conversion of sinners and 
the edification of saints. For such benevolent actions, 
she was called a Methodist, and represented as a wild 
enthusiast; but such opposition her principles enabled 
her patiently to endure, and, through evil and good re- 
port, to pursue her work of faith and labor of love. 
She w r as an intimate friend of Darcy Lady Maxwell, 
and, like her, a friend to Mr. Wesley and his preach- 
ers. In 1774 she opened a chapel in Edinburgh called 
“Lady Glenorchy ’s chapel,” where Mr. Jones, of Plym- 
outh, preached for over fifty years. She built also 
several places of worship in the country. Though her 
health declined, her activity and usefulness were una- 
bated, till, on the 17th of July, 1786, she was summon- 
ed to her reward. She bequeathed, by her will, five 
thousand pounds for the education of young men for 
the ministry in England; five thousand pounds to the 
society in Scotland for the propagation of Christian 
knowledge ; and the greatest part of the residue of her 
property to charitable and pious purposes. See Me- 
moirs of Lady Glenorchy , in Burder’s Pious Women. — 
Jones, Christian Biography ; Jamieson, Religious Biog- 
raphy , p. 228; Stevens, History of Methodism. 

Gloria in Excelsis (“ Gloiy be [to God ] on high ”), 
the name of one of the most ancient doxologies of the 
Church. It is called doxologia major , to distinguish it 


885 


GLORY 


GLORIA PATRI 

from the Gloria Patri ; and is also called hymnus an - 
gelicus (the angelic hymn), because the first part of it 
was sung by the angels at Bethlehem. The latter 
portion is ascribed to Telesphorus, about A.D.139; but 
this is doubtful. The whole hymn, with very little 
difference, is to be found in the Apostolical Constitu- 
tions, and was established to be used in the church 
service by the fourth Council of Toledo. It is used by 
both the Greek and Latin churches. ‘ In the Eastern 
Church,” says Palmer, “this hymn is more than 1500 
years old, and the Church of England has used it, either 
at the beginning or end of the liturgy, for above 1200 
years.” In the Roman Missal it stands at the begin- 
ning of the Office for the Communion, as it does also 
in the first Common Prayer of king Edward VI, where 
it immediately follows the Collect for Purity. In the 
present prayer-book of the Church of England and the 
Protestant Episcopal Church it stands after the com- 
munion, as it does also in the Ritual of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church. The Greek form of the hymn, as 
restored by Bunsen ( Analecta Anteniccena , iii, 87), is as 
follows: “A 6%a iv vxjAaroig 9toj Kai iid yi)g tif)i]vr), 
tv av0pu)7roiQ tvSoKia. Aivobpkv at, tvXoyovptv at, 
7rpacncuvovpiv at' tuxapiGrovpiv aoi Sid rt)v ptyaXijv 
trov dogav. Koj cue l3aaiXtv ijrovpdvit, 9tbg tt ari)p 7 rav- 
TOKpdnop * KujOic o 9tug m K vpit uif povoytvi ] * ’h]oov 
Xpiarr ’O cipvbg rov Ototr o vibg rov tt arpog' ’O ai- 
piov rag tipapriag rov Koopov' iXirjaov ypcig' O cd- 
pto v nig 1 dpapriag rov Koopov iXirjaov t)pdg, wpoo- 
Si£ai rr)v Sh]<jiv t)paiv 'O KciOppevog iv St%i<j rov 7 ra- 
rpog m iXiijcro v r)pdg. "On au d povog dyiog' ov d po- 
vog Kuptog' ’hjoovg Xpiorog’ tig Su^av Otov 7r arpog. 
’A pt)v." The English form: “Glory he to God on 
high, and on earth peace, good-will towards men. Wc 
praise thee, we bless thee, we worship thee, we glorify 
thee, we give thanks to thee for thy great glor} 7 , 0 
Lord God, heavenly King, God the Father Almighty. 
0 Lord, the only-begotten Son Jesus Christ ; O Lord 
God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father, that takest away 
the sins of the world, have mercy upon us. Thou that 
takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon 
us. Thou that takest away the sins of the world, re- 
ceive our prayer. Thou that sittest at the right hand 
of God the Father, have mercy upon us. For thou 
only art holy ; thou only art the Lord ; thou only, 0 
Christ, with the Holy Ghost, art most high in the glory 
of God the Father. Amen.” — Hook; Wheatly, Com- 
mon Prayer , ch. vi, § 27 ; Palmer, Ong. Litury. ii, 158; 
Procter, On Common Prayer , p. 353; Bingham, Orig. 
Eccles. bk. xv, chap, iii ; Daniel, Thesaurus Ilymnologi- 
cus, ii, 2C7 ; Evangdical Quar. Rev. April, 1869, p. 250. 
See Angelical Hymn; Doxology. 

Gloria Patri, Glory be to the Father, one of the 
primitive doxologies of the Church, the doxologia mi- 
nor. At first almost all the fathers had their own dox- 
ologies, which they expressed, as they had occasion, in 
their own language, ascribing “glory and honor” some- 
times to the Father onty, sometimes to the Son only, 
and sometimes to the Father through the Son. At the 
rise of the Arian heresy, “Glory be to the Father, and 
to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost,” became the stand- 
ing form ; to which the Western Church soon added, 
“As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, 
world without end. Amen.” — Wheatly, Com. Prayer , 
chap, iii, § 7 ; Palmer, Orig. Liturg. i, 219 ; Procter, On 
Common Prayer, p. 212, 215. See Doxology. 

Glorify, (1.) to make glorious or honorable, or to 
cause to appear so, John xii, 28; xiii, 31,32; xv, 8; 
xvii, 4, 5; xxi, 19; Acts iii, 13. In this view it par- 
ticularly refers to the resurrection of Christ, and his 
ascension to the right hand of God, John vii, 30; xii, 
16. (2.) It also expresses that change which shall 

pass upon believers at the general resurrection, and 
their admission into heaven. (3.) To glorify God (1 
Cor. vi, 20) is to “show forth his praise” by obedience 
to his law. Thus the “ heavens declare the glory of 


God” in obedience to the law of creation, and much 
more do moral and intellectual beings glorify him by 
willing obedience to the moral law (1 Cor. x, 31 ; John 
xvii, 4). See Glory of God. 

Glory, in the English Version, usually represents 
the words T*D3, kahod ' ’, and Sv^a. The Hebrew, from 
“to be heavy,” is susceptible of the various ana- 
logical meanings which are derived from its root, viz. 
“to be hard,” “honored,” “rich,” etc. The above 
Ileb. and Gr. terms have the following applications : 
(1.) Abundance , wealth , treasures , rendered “honor” in 
Psa. xlviii, 12, and “glory” in Gen. xxxi, 1 ; Isa. x, 
3; Matt, iv, 8; Luke iv, 6; Rev. xxi, 24, 26. (2.) 

Honor , glory, dignity, as in 1 Kings iii, 13 ; 2 Chron. 

i, 11, 12 ; Prov. viii, 18 ; Heb. ii, 7 ; 1 Pet. i, 24 ; 1 Cor. 
xi, 7. Spoken of God, as in Psa. xix, 1 ; xxix, 1 ; 
Isa. xlii, 8 ; of persons in high honor (Isa.v, 13; 2 Pet. 

ii, 10 : Jude 8). Also the honor', glory, of any one ; po- 
etically for the mind , the heart, as the noblest part of 
man (Gen. xlix, 6 ; Psa. vii, 5; xvi, 9 ; xxx, 12; lvii, 
8; cviii, 1; Acts ii, 26). Some here assign the signi- 
fication of “liver,” but the liver is never (like the 
heart and reins) assumed as the seat of the mind and 
affections. (3.) Splendor, brightness, glory, majesty — 
“ of all my glory,” i. e. splendor (Gen. xlv, 13 ; Da. iv, 
5; xi,10; xxii, 18 ; 1 Sam. ii, 8; Acts xxii, 11; 1 Pet. 

v, 4) ; “ the glory of Lebanon,” its magnificence, beau- 
ty (Isa. xxxv, 2; lx, 13). So of the sun, stars, etc. 
(1 Cor. xv, 40, 41) ; of Moses’s face (2 Cor. iii, 7) ; also 
of the celestial light which surrounds angels (Rev. 
xviii, 1), or glorified saints (Luke ix, 31 , 32 ; 1 Cor. xv. 
43; Col. iii, 4). Spoken especially of the glory, majes - 
ty, of Jehovah (Isa. lix, 19 ; lx, 1 ; 2 Thcss. i, 9 ; 2 Pet. 

1, 17 ; Rev. xxi, 11, 23), that fiery effulgence surrounded 
with dark clouds in which Jehovah is represented as 
appearing, or God himself as surrounded by this efful- 
gence, from which lightnings proceed (Lev. ix, 23, 24 ; 
Numb, xvi, 35 ; Psa. xviii, 12), such as he manifested 
when he showed himself at Sinai to Moses and the 
people (Exod. xvi, 7, 10; xxiv, 17 ; xxxiii, 18; Lev. 
ix, 6, 23), or appeared in the tabernacle (Exod. xl, 
34), or in the Temple (1 Kings viii, 11; 2 Chron. 
vii, 1, 2; compare Luke ii, 9; ix, 32; Acts vii, 55; 
xxii, 11), or was seen in prophetic visions (Tsa. vi, 
3; John xii, 41; Ezek. i, 28; viii, 4; x, 4, 18 ; xliii, 

2, 4 ; xliv, 4; Rev. xv, 8 ; xxi, 11, 23). To this cor- 
responds the Siiekinaii of the later Jews (Buxtorf’s 
Lexicon Chald. Talmud, et Rabbinicum, col. 2394). God 
appears, too, in glory to punish transgressors (Lev. x, 
2); and sinners are s-nd to “provoke the eyes of his 
glory,” i. e. of him as thus appearing in his glory for 
their punishment (Isa. iii, 8). Spoken also of the ex- 
pected temporal reign of the Messiah (Mark x, 37 ; 
comp. Matt, xx, 21) ; and also of the glory of his sec- 
ond coming (Matt, xvi, 27 ; xix, 28; xxiv, SO; Mark 
xiii, 26; viii, 38; Luke ix, 26; xxi, 27 ; Titus ii, 13). 
(4.) Of internal character, i. e. glorious moral attri- 
butes. Spoken of God, inflate perfection , divine maj- 
esty and holiness (Psa. xix, 1 ; Isa. xl, 5 ; Acts vii, 
2 ; Rom. i, 23 ; Eph. i, 17) ; so of the divine perfections 
as manifested in the power of God (John xi, 40; Rom. 

vi, 4; Col. i, 11), or in his benevolence and beneficence 
(Rom. ix, 23 ; Eph. i, 12, 14, 18 ; iii, 16). So of Jesus, 
as the effulgence of the divine perfections (Heb. i, 3; 
John i. 14; ii, 31); also of the Spirit (1 Pet. iv, 14). 
(5.) Of that exalted state of blissful perfection which 
is the portion of those who dwell with God in heaven; 
e. g. spoken of Christ, and including also the idea of 
his regal majesty as Messiah (Luke xxiv, 26; John 
xvii, 5, 22, 24 ; 2 Thess. ii, 14 ; 1 Tim. iii, 16 ; 1 Pet. i, 
11). Spoken of glorified saints, i. e. salvation, eternal 
life, etc. (Rom. ii, 7, 10 ; v, 2 ; viii, 18 ; 1 Cor. ii, 7 ; 2 
Cor. iv, 17; 1 Thess. ii, 12; 2 Tim. ii, 10; Heb. ii, 10; 

1 Pet. v, 1, 10). So to glorify, when spoken of God 
and Christ, is to render conspicuous and glorious the 
divine character and attributes of God as glorified by 


GLORY 


88G 


GLORY 


the Son (John xii, 28; xiii, 31, 32; xiv, 13 ; xv, 8; 
xvii, 1, 4); of Christ as glorified by the Father (John 
viii, 54; xiii, 32; xvii, 1, 5; Acts iii, 13), or by the 
Spirit (John xvi, 14), or by Christians (John xvii, 10), 
or generally (Lev. x, 3; John xi, 4; xiii, 31). — Bas- 
tow, s. v. See Glorify. 

Other terms less frequently rendered “ glory,” 
“glorious,” etc., are: ‘""'nX, large ; “iTfl, to swell; 
"Pn, honor ; !"HX2n, beauty, etc. ; icVioc, renown; tccw- 
\('no y to boast. On these and the above, consult the 
II eb. and Or. Lexicons. 

W r e may be said to give glory to God when we con- 
fess our sins, when we love him supremely, when we 
commit ourselves to him, are zealous in his service, 
walk humbly, thankfully, and cheerfully before him, 
and recommend, proclaim, or set forth his excellencies 
to others (Matt, v, 16 ; John xv, 8 ; Gal. ii, 20). In 
Exod. viii, 9 we read, “And Moses said unto Pharaoh, 
Glory over me.” The margin has for “glory” “hon- 
or,” and for “over me” “against me.” Pharaoh had 
besought Moses to pray that the Lord might take 
away the frogs, and Moses wished the king to have 
the lionor and glory (in preference to himself) of ap- 
pointing a time when he should thus pray to the Lord 
to take them away. This w T as not only compliment- 
ary to Pharaoh, but it would have a strong tendency 
to convince him that the Lord had heard the pra}*er 
of Moses, because he himself had appointed the time. 

As man’s real glory on earth consists in submitting 
to the will of God, and in doing it, so will his glory in 
heaven consist in being eternally pleasing to God, and 
in finding in him his perfect happiness. There can be 
no real glory, either in this world or in the next, aside 
from virtue. The glory we seek here consists in the 
esteem of our fellow-men, and it would never be a false 
or a dangerous glory if men were wise enough not to 
esteem anything but what is virtuous. Christ com- 
mands us to practice virtue, not in view of gaining the 
approbation of men, but to please God. At the first 
glapce bis instructions on this point may appear some- 
what contradictory. He says : “ Let your light so shine 
before men , that they may see your good works, and glori- 
fy your Father which is in heaven (Matt, v, 1G) ; then : 
Take heed that ye do not your alms before men , to be, seen 
of them ; othrwise ye have no reward of your Father 
which is in heaven. Therefore, when thou doest thine 
alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, ns the hypo- 
crites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that 
they may have glory of men. Verily I saj^ unto you, 
they have their reward,” etc. (Matt, vi, 1 sq.). But 
these passages are really not contradictory. Christ 
means that he docs not want the desire of being ad- 
mired and praised by men to be the motive of our good 
actions ; but he wants us to do those good actions in 
order to edify our neighbors, to lead them by our ex- 
ample. to the practice of virtue, so that they may glo- 
rify God, and not us. There is a great difference be- 
tween these two motives : the first is very wrong, the 
second right and praiseworthy. We are consequently 
to keep secret our good actions, whenever an opposite 
course is not necessary for public edification ; but when 
it is, then we are to let them be seen. St. Paul says : 
“ Our rejoicing (or glory) is this, the testimony of our 
conscience that in simplicity and godly sincerit}*, not 
with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have 
had our conversation in the world, and more abundant- 
ly to you-ward” (2 Cor. i, 1*2). 

The word glory, in St. Paul's writings, has often 
been misunderstood. In speaking of the destiny of 
the Jews and Gentiles with regard to faith (Bom. ix, 
22, 23), he says: “What if God, willing to show his 
wrath, and to make his power known, endued with 
much long-suffering the vessels of wrath fitted to de- 
struction ; and that he might make known the riches 
of his glon' on the vessels of mercy, which he had 
afore prepared unto glory,” etc. We do not think that 


the word glory here refers to eternal glory, but rather 
to God’s glory here below and to the glory of his 
Church ; for God has really showed its riches in the 
virtues of those who have been called to faith. St. 
Paul uses the expression again in the same sense when 
he speaks (1 Cor. ii, 7) of “the hidden wisdom which 
God ordained before the world unto our glory f and 
when he says (Eph. i, 5, G) that God predestined us for 
adoption “to the praise of the glory of his grace.” So 
Augustine (Fnarr. in Psa. x viii, 3, and in Psa. xxxix, 
4) understands these passages. — Bergier , Dict.de The- 
jologie (Paris, 1854), iii, 139. 

GLORY OF GOD. In numerous passages of Scrip- 
ture it is said that God has done certain acts for Uis 
own gloy (e. g. Isa. xiii), that man should glorify God 
(1 Sam. vi, 5; 1 Cor. vi, 20; x, 31, etc.). But how 
can man “glorify” the Supreme Being, who is abso- 
lutely glorious in holiness and perfection ? To this 
question infidels answer that it is “absurd to suppose 
that God is a ‘vain’ being; that so insignificant a 
creature as man can bring to God any kind of pleasure 
or satisfaction ; or that God would demand from man 
a fictitious ‘glory’ which he does not require, and 
by which he could not feel flattered w ithout exhibit- 
ing weakness, and consequently imperfection.” All 
I this argument is based on the misconception of a word. 

I It is in the nature of an intellectual and free being, 
i like God, to act in view of a certain aim and motive. 

! But God can have no higher aim, no object more wor- 
thy of himself, than to exert liis perfections, his pow r er, 
his wisdom, and especially his benevolence. Hence 
the creation of beings emlow r ed with sense, intellect, 
and freedom, and susceptible of feeling affection, es- 
teem, thankfulness, and obedience. God willed, as 
1 says St. Augustine, the existence of beings to w hom he 
could manifest his love. Hence, also, God has estab- 
lished physical and moral laws, and made the happi- 
ness of reasonable beings to depend from their submis- 
] sion to these. President Edwards treats this point 
with profound insight. “ It is,” he says, “a thing in- 
finitely good in itself that God’s glory should be known 
by a glorious society of created beings. And that 
there should he in them an increasing knowledge of 
j God to all eternity, is an existence, a reality infinitely 
worthy to be, and worthy to be valued and regarded 
by him to whom it belongs to order that to be which, 
of all things possible, is the fittest and best. If exist- 
I once is more worthy than defect and nonentity, and if 
any created existence is in itself worthy to be, then 
knowledge or understanding is a thing worthy to he ; 
and if any knowledge, then the most excellent sort of 
know ledge, viz. that of God and his glory. The ex- 
| istence of the created universe consists as much in it 
as in any thing; yea, this knowledge is one of the 
highest, most real, and substantial parts of all created 
existence, most remote from nonentity and defect. As 
there is an infinite fulness of all possible good in God, 
a fulness of every perfection, of all excellency and 
beauty, and of infinite happiness, and as this fulness 
is capable of communication or emanation ad extra, 
so it seems a thing amiable and valuable in itself that 
it should he communicated or flow' forth, that this in- 
finite fountain of good should send forth abundant 
streams, that this infinite fountain of light should, dif- 
fusing its excellent fulness, pour forth light all around 
— and as this is in itself excellent, so a disposition to 
this, in the Divine Being, must be looked upon as a 
perfection or an excellent disposition, such an emana- 
tion of good is, in some sense, a multiplication of it ; so 
far as the communication or external stream may be 
; looked upon as any thing besides the fountain, so far it 
{ may he looked upon as an increase of good. And if 
the fulness of good that is in the fountain is in itself 
I excellent and worthy to exist, then the emanation, 
or that which is as it were an increase, repetition, or 
multiplication of it, is excellent and worthy to exist. 

I Thus it is fit, since there is an infinite fountain of light 


GLORY 


887 


GLORY 


and knowledge, that this light should shine forth in 
beams of communicated knowledge and understand- 
ing; and as there is an infinite fountain of holiness, 
moral excellence, and beauty, so it should flow out in 
communicated holiness. And as there is an infinite 
fulness of joy and happiness, so these should have an 
emanation, and become a fountain flowing out in abun- 
dant streams, as beams from the sun. From this view 
it appears in another way to be a thing in itself valua- 
ble that there should be such things as the knowledge 
of God’s glory in other beings, and a high esteem of it, 
love to it, and delight and complacence in it; this ap- 
pears, I say, in another way, viz. as these things are 
but the emanations of God’s own knowledge, holiness, 
and joy. Thus it appears reasonable to suppose that 
it was what •God had respect to as an ultimate end of 
his creating the world, to communicate of his own in- 
finite fulness of good; or, rather, it was his last end, 
that there might be a glorious and abundant emana- 
tion of his infinite fulness of good a l extra, or without 
himself; and the disposition to communicate himself, 
or diffuse his own fulness, which wc must conceive of 
as being originally in God as a perfection of bis nature, 
was what moved him to create the world” (p. 219). 
. ... 11 God and the creature, in this affair of the ema- 
nation of the divine fulness, are not properly set in op- 
position, or made the opposite parts of a disjunction. 
Nor ought God’s glory and the creature’s good to be 
spoken of as if they were properly and entirely dis- 
tinct. This supposeth that God’s having respect to 
his glory, and the communication of good to his creat- 
ures, are things altogether different ; that God’s com- 
municating his fulness for himself, and his doing it for 
them, are things standing in a proper disjunction and 
opposition ; whereas, if we were capable of having 
more full and perfect views of God and divine things, 
which are so much above us, it is probable it would 
appear very clear to us that the matter is quite other- 
wise, and that these things, instead of appearing en- 
tirely distinct, are implied one in the other — that God, 
in seeking his glory, therein seeks the good of his 
creatures. Because the emanation of his glory (which 
he seeks and delights in, as he delights in himself and 
his own eternal glory) implies the communicated ex- 
cellency and happiness of his creatures. . And in com- 
municating his fulness for them, he does it for himself ; 
because their good, which he seeks, is so much in 
union and communion with himself. God is their 
good. Their excellency and happiness is nothing hut 
the emanation and expression of God’s glory. God, 
in seeking their glory and happiness, seeks himself, 
and in seeking himself, i. e. himself diffused and ex- 
pressed (which he delights in, as he delights in his own 
beauty and fulness), be seeks their glory and happi- 
ness” ( Dissertation on the End cf God in Creation , § 2, 
3 > 

In thus manifesting his power, wisdom, holiness, 
and goodness, we say that God has established his 
“glory;” and so, also, when men acknowledge and 
worship these divine perfections, they “glorify” God. 
In this language there is nothing absurd or injurious 
to the divine majesty. In Scripture the object of di- 
vine revelation is stated sometimes to be the sanctifi- 
cation of man, sometimes the glory of God, as these 
are identical, whether considered from the divine or 
the human point of view. Moreover, it is an effect of 
the divine wisdom, holiness, and goodness, that man 
should find happiness in virtue, not in vice ; in sub- 
mission to the physical and moral laws established by 
God, not in violating them. And when man submits 
to these law r s he glorifies God, since he renders hom- 
age to the divine perfections. Hence it cannot he 
wrong to say that the glory of God consists in the sub- 
mission of all creatures to his law T , and that the glory 
of all reasonable creatures consists in absolute submis- 
sion to God. If wc are to recognise the glory of God 
as one of his rights, as ono of his regal prerogatives, it 


j takes eo ipso the form of a duty, which becomes oblig. 
atory for us. The heavens declare the glory of God, 
but they only declare it to reasonable beings, for the 
glory of God is only realized when its revelation is 
understood by moral beings, willingly received by 
them, and independently reflected. “ The Loi'd hath 
made all things for himself ” (Prov. xvi, 4). Not that 
he made “all things” for his own use, to supply his 
own w r ants, or to increase his own essential happiness, 

1 but that he made all in accordance with the require- 
ments of bis divine perfections, and so as better to 
manifest his glory. When the adversaries of Chris- 
tianity reproach it with making God like unto man, 
supposing him vain, thirsting for praise and incense, 
they fall themselves into the very error w’hicli they 
denounce. They say: “If man seeks for glory, it is 
because ho needs it; because be is weak; hence, if 
God seeks bis ow’n glory, it is also from need and weak., 
ness.” This is pure sophistry : man is weak and poor 
because finite ; God is self-sufficient because essential- 
ly happy and perfect ; and it is on account of this very 
perfection that he acts for his glory, because he could 
not have any higher or more worthy aim. 

“ But,” it is said, “to speak of ‘ glory’ accruing from 
man to God is as if a nest of ants should. imagine them- 
selves working for the glory of some great king.” 
This comparison is absurd. God did not need to create 
man, to give liim laws, to promise him rewards and 
punishments, vet he has done so. No king could do 
this towards insects. It was not umvorthv of God to 
create reasonable beings, neither is it any less w orthy 
of him to take care of his creatures, to take an interest 
in their actions ; the one is no more difficult for him 
than the other; it is all done by a simple act of his 
will. Philosophers may do their utmost to degrade 
man under pretence of rendering him independent, but 
there is implanted in man a feeling stronger than all 
their sophisms which assures him that he is the child 
of God, and that the grandeur of the supreme Being 
does not consist in a sort of philosophical pride and ab- 
solute indifference, but in the power and will to do 
good to all his creatures. It is one of God’s great 
gifts to mail that the creature finds his highest happi- 
ness, both for this world and the next, in working for 
the “glory” of his Maker. St. Paul says, 1 Cor. x, 
31, “Whether, therefore, ye eat, or drink, or whatso- 
ever ye do, do all for the glory of God.” In this pas- 
sage (compared with 1 Pot. iv, 11) we find the broad 
ethical law laid down, viz. all our actions should tend 
to the greater glory of God, which is done when every 
action does not merely conform to bis commandment, 
but is really inspired by God the Holy Ghost. Chry- 
sostom, in bis New-Year sermon at Antioch (A.D. 387, 
on 1 Cor. x, 31), by a scries of isolated examples, shows 
that the most insignificant things can be made to glo- 
rify God. This ethical doctrine has been distorted by 
the Bom an Catholic Church, which substantially puts 
the glory of the Church in place of the glory of God. — 
President Edwards, Works (N. Y. 4 vols.), ii, 204 sq. ; 
Farindon, Sermons , ii, 502; Beveridge, llorfa, v, 349; 
Tillotson, Sermons, xi, 29; Sharp (Abp.), IKorfo, iii,. 
211; Dwight, Theology, i, 393; Bergier, Dictionnaire' 
de Theologie, iii, 138 ; Herzog, Real-Encykl. iii, 707 sq. 

Glory, Aureole, or Nimbus, are names applied 
to rays, circles, or bodies of light placed around the 
heads (or the entire bodies) of Christ, angels, and saints 
in Christian art. The glory was first used in Egyp- 
tian art. From this it passed to the Grecian, and es- 
pecially to the Roman. In both of these branches of 
classic art, it wras used in both sculpture and painting 
to adorn the heads of deities, kings, and apotheosized 
emperors. In classic art the glory was mostly com- 
posed of gilded rays. (The disc used to protect the 
heads of statues from rain has been improperly consid- 
ered by some to be the original, from which the glory 
of Christian art was copied.) In Christian art the glo- 
ry was first used, as far as w’c know, in the glasses or 


GLOSS 


888 


GLOSS 


patera of the Catacombs, about the 3d century, being 
in them applied to the head of Christ. About the 
close of the Gth century it was tirst applied to angels, 
and to the apostles and saints. 

The glory was used in ancient art to signify power 
and dominion. In this sense it was occasionally used 
in Christian art, as when it was placed around the head 
cf Constantine, of the empress Theodora, around six 
heads of the beast of the Apocalypse, and even around 
that of Satan. But usually it signified holiness and 
purity. The oblong glory, or the “ vesica piscis,” en- 
velopes the whole person only in representations of 
Christ, the Virgin Mary, or other saints who are rep- 
resented as ascending to heaven. The glory had many 
forms : thus it was a simple circle of light, or it con- 
tained a cross in the monogram A 12 or X P. It was 
sometimes applied to the head of a dove, a lamb, or 
other symbol of the Saviour. — Mrs. Jameson, Sacred 
and Legendary Art; Martignv, Dictionnaire ties Anti- 
guiles Chreiiemies. (G. F. C.) 

Gloss, Glossary. A gloss is a note appended to 
any word or phrase for the purpose of interpretation 
or illustration. “ Sacred glosses” are such notes ap- 
pended to words or phrases occurring in the Scriptures. 

. I glossary is a collection of such explanatory notes 
properly arranged. 

The word gloss is borrowed from the Greek yXioacra. 
But in the sense above explained it has no support 
from classical usage. The process, however, by which 
the word passed from its original meaning to that in 
which it was used by mediaeval writers, and in which 
it is now used, may be traced. The Greek word 
yXibacra, meaning tongue or speech, came to be used by 
the Creek grammarians in the sense of a word requir- 
ing to be explained. In process of time words often 
become obsolete, or conic to be used in senses different 
from those in which they were originally used; new 
words are introduced ; and words frequently have spe- 
cial meanings attached to them of a professional or 
technical character, familiar only to a portion of the 
community. To the multitude such words need to be 
explained ; and such words the Greek grammarians 
called yXdxroai. Thus Plutarch speaks of certain ex- 
pressions in the poets which were not commonly un- 
derstood, and which belonged to the idiotisms of par- 
ticular regions or tribes, as rag Xe yopivag yXiorrag 
{[)e audiend. poet. c. f>). Galen applies the same name 
to the antiquated words of Hippocrates, and explains 
the term thus : o<r a roivuv non di'opctnov tv piv roig 
rrciXat xpovoig swifti} Til' vvv Si o vk in eoti, rd pin 
roiavra yXibaaag KaXovcn ( Exeges . Gloss. Ilippocrat. 
Proem.). Aristotle applies the same term to provin- 
cialisms ( De arte poet . c . xxi, § 4-G; xxii, 3, 4, etc.). 
And, not to multiply quotations, a scholiast on Dion. 
Ilalicarn., quoted by Wetstcin on 1 Cor. xii, 10, ex- 
pressly says yXuxraai ' (piovai dpxaiat Kal utco^evG 
rrpevai ij €7rtywpm£o»'<To<. Quintilian also saj’s of 
the synonymous word glossemda , “ Id est voces minus 
usitatas” (hist. Orat. i, 3, 15 ; comp, also i, 1, 35). 

The next step was from calling a word needing ex- 
planation a gloss, to apply this term to the explanation 
itself. These explanations at first consisted merely 
in adhibiting the word in common use ( ovopa Kvpiov, 
Aristot.) to the obsolete and peculiar word ; and thus 
the two viewed as one whole came to be called a gloss ; 
and ultimately this name came to be given to that part 
which was of most interest to the reader, viz. the ex- 
planation. 

These explanations constituted the beginnings of 
Greek Lexicography. They did not continue, howev- 
er, to be merely lexical ; they often embraced histori- 
cal, geographical, biographical, and such like notices. 
Nor were they arranged at first in an alphabetical or- 
der ; nor did they embrace the whole range of the lan- 
guage, but only such parts of it as the glossographer 
was interested in (hence such works as the ’Arnicai 
rXdjnaai of Theodoras, etc.); nor were the words pre- 


sented in their uninflected forms, but in the form in 
which they occurred in the course of the glossogra- 
pher’s reading. More methodical collections of these 
explanations began to be made in the Middle Ages, 
and such as have been preserved to us in the works of 
Hesychius, Suidas, Phavorinus, Zonaras, Photius, and 
in the Etgmologicum Magnum. 

I. The first class of extant scriptural glosses con- 
sists of explanations drawn from the Greek glossarists, 
a large number of the notes collected by whom are on 
words occurring in Scripture. Their works thus be- 
come valuable as exegetical aids, especially as they 
convey not the individual opinion of the collector so 
much as opinions which he had gathered from older 
writers. A Glossarium Gracum in X. T., collected 
from these works, was published by Alberti in 1735. 
Valckenaer collected from Hes}'chius the explanations 
of scriptural words (Opp. i, 173 sq.) ; but this has been 
best done by J. Ch. Gotti. Krncsti, in his Glossce Sacrce 
Ilesgchii Grace, etc. (Lips. 1785), which was followed 
by a similar collection from Suidas and Phavorinus, 
with specimens from the Etymologicum Magnum (Lips. 
178G). These are extremely convenient books of ref- 
erence. Comp. Fabricius, Bibl. Graca, iv, 540 sq. ; 
Bosenmiiller, Ilistor. Interpr. iv, 35G sq. Suicer’s The- 
saurus Ecciesiasticns (Amst. 1682, 1728, 2 vols. fol.) con- 
tains nearly all these explanatory words or glosses, 
and the most important of them are also usually in the 
best modern Greek Lexicons of the N. T. 

II. The second class of glosses is due to the habit, 
as old perhaps as the art of writing itself, of readers 
inscribing on the margin of MSS. or books observa- 
tions of their own, explanatory or otherwise of the 
text. This was especially the case with the sacred 
books, partly because after the establishment of Chris- 
tianity they were more read than other books, partly 
because their contents gave abundant occasion for the- 
ological, historical, or philological annotation. Hence, 
from an early period, marginal notes intended to illus- 
trate in some way the text came to have a place in tho 
codices containing the sacred books. At first very 
brief, often confined to a single word, these glosses 
grew into more extended remarks, written in a smaller 
hand on the margin, and sometimes between the lines 
of the codex. In the ancient Hebrew codices these 
marginal notes were the source of not a few of the Keri 
readings ; and the glosses on the margins of the cod- 
ices of the Sept, and the N.T. have given rise to man}' 
of the various readings which exist in both of these. 
It is believed also, as marginal notes are apt to be 
transferred, by ignorant or careless copyists, into the 
text, that some such interpolations are to be found in 
the received text of the N. T., and it is considered to 
be one of the problems which criticism has to solve to 
detect these, and eliminate them. The exercise of a 
sound and cautious judgment, however, is required to 
preside over this, lest rash and unauthorized altera- 
tions be made (Valckenaer, Dissert, de Glossis Sacris 
[Franeq. 1737] ; J. A. Ernesti, De rero usu et indole Glos- 
sariorum Gr. [Lug. Bat. 1742]; Tittmann, De Glossis X. 
T. asiimandis etjndicandis [ Wittcnb. 1782] ; Wassenb. 
be Glossis N. T.j prefixed to Valckenaer’s Scholia in Li - 
bros quosdam X.T. [Amst. 1795] ; Bornemann, De Glos- 
semat. X. T. caute dijudicandis, in his Scholia ad Luc. 
Evang. 1830). It has been proposed to restrict the 
term gloss to the marginal annotations as such, and to 
use glosseme to designate those which are supposed to 
have been introduced into the text ; but the usage of 
writers is not uniform in this respect. 

The longer marginal annotations (Gfossre Marginales) 
were made principally on the text of the Vulgate. 
These were of various kinds ; some grammatical, some 
historical, some theological, some allegorical and mys- 
tical. The most famous collection of these is that 
made in the 9th century by Walafrid Strabo from the 
writings of Augustine, Ambrose, Jerome, Gregory, Isi- 
dore, Bede, Alcuin, and Eabanus Maurus, with addi 


GNAT 


GLOSSES AND GLOSSATOKES 889 


tions by himself. This became the great exegetical 
thesaurus of the Middle Ages, and was known as the 
Glossa Ordinaria. Of notes written between the lines 
(Glosses Intevliwares), a collection was made by Anselm 
of Laon in the beginning of the 12th century. Both 
these works were printed together about the end of the 
15th century, 4 vols. fol. ; they have often been reprint- 
ed since, with the commentary of Lyra. Other glossa- 
ries are those of Peter the Lombard on the Psalms(Par. 
1535) ; of II li go and S. Caro (Postilhe in universa Biblici , 
Yen. 1487, fol.) — Kitto, s. v. ; Davidson in Home’s In- 
trod. ii, 252 ; Herzog, Rcal-Encyklop. v, 188. 

Glosses and Giossatores of the Koman and 
canon law. In the Pith century the Roman law, | 
which after the downfall of the "Western Roman em- 
pire had retained but little of its former importance, 
was again brought into notice, and studied with great 
zeal. The law school of Bologna, founded towards 
the end of the 11th century or the beginning of the 
12th by Irnerius (Warnerius, Guarnerius), was the 
centre of this new movement. The reputation of the 
school and of its professors brought students from all 
parts of Europe to Bologna. The activity of the teach- 
ers did not confine itself to the expounding of the 
sources of the law, but also made these researches the 
foundation of a literary activity, and created a body 
of Giossatores (Glossarists), so called. The written in- 
terpretation of the Corpus juris appeared in the form 
of glosses, consisting sometimes in the explanation of | 
some particular word or expression, sometimes in full 
and complete elucidations, and this sometimes between 
the lines of the text ( interlinear glosses), sometimes 
on the margin (marginal glosses). Besides these the 
giossatores also wrote sumnue , reviews of the contents I 
of some particular chapter of law ; casus, real or imag- 
inary cases intended as illustrations of particular points 
in connection with qwrstiones and distinctiones ; and 
also brocarda or brocardica , etc. (see Savignv, Gesch. 
des Horn. R. i. Mittelalter , iii, 537-574, 2d ed.). This 
literary activity of the giossatores of Roman law was 
an example for scientific treatment of canon law, 'which 
afterwards (in the 12th century) gave rise in Bologna 
and in Paris to lectures on the subject, and thus by 
the side of the legists rose the schools of the canon- 
ists, the decretists, and the decretalists. A number 
of the pupils and disciples of Gratian (q. v.) com- 
posed glosses (probably interlinear) on his Dccretum. 
Among the oldest of these giossatores was Sicardus of 
Cremona, who was made bishop of Cremona in 1185. 
When the number of glosses in different MSS. became 
very great, it was naturally found expedient to collect 
and arrange them. This labor was undertaken by 
John Teutonicus, who wrote in 1212 a commentary on 
the Decretinn, compiled from the glosses of his prede- 
cessors, and this Ajparatus, augmented and improved 
by Bartholomew of Brescia about 123G, became the 
Glossa ordinaria; i. e. was indorsed by the school, ap- 
pended to the MS. copies of the Decretum , and subse- 
quently printed with it. Glosses on the collection of 
decretals of Gregory IX were written by Vincentius 
Hispanus (about 1240), Goffredus Tranensis (f 1245), 
and Sinibaldus Fliscns, who afterwards sat on the pon- 
tifical throne (1243-54) under the name of Innocent 
IV. From these glosses Bernhard de Botono of Par- 
ma (f 126G) compiled his Apparatus, which was also 
recognised as glossa ordinaria. Among the giossato- 
res of the Liber sextvs are to be named Johannes Mona- 
chus (f 1313), Guido de Baysio, and Johannes Andrea; 
(f 1348). The glosses of the latter were originally 
written in his youth ; he afterwards improved them, 
and they have been copied and printed as glossa ordi- 
nance. He also wrote the first glosses on the Clemen- 
tines, and they were also recognised as glosses ordina- 
ri(ti . Among the other giossatores of the same collec- 
tion we remark Zenzelinus de Cassanis, a teacher of 
Toulouse, Johannes de Lignano, Petrus de Ancharano, 
Franciscus Zabarella (f 1417), etc. The glosses on 


the Extravagantes were the work partly of Gulielmus 
de monte Lauduno, and partly of Johannes Monachus. 
Those on the collection of John XXII were chiefly by 
Zenzelinus de Cassanis. The glosses have to this day 
great scientific value for the history of law. They 
have also exerted an important influence in the prac- 
tice of the law. See Sarti, De clans arcliigymnasii 
Bonon. profess >ribus, t. i, p. i, ii (Bonon. 17G9, folio); 
Herzog, Real-Enrgklop. v, 191. (J. N. P.) 

Gloucester, a cathedral city of England, on the 
Severn, 107 miles northwest of London. The cathe- 
dral is of several different eras of ecclesiastical archi- 
tecture, 427 feet in length, and 154 in width; the height 
of the central tower, its greatest external ornament, 
is 223 feet ; the cloisters, also of great beauty, form 
a large square. Formerly the church of a Benedict- 
ine abbey, it was converted into a cathedral in 1541. 
Gloucester is the official residence of the bishop of Glou- 
cester and Bristol, whose diocese embraces Gloucester- 
shire, and parts of Somersetshire and "Wiltshire. The 
diocese belongs to the province of Canterbury, and in 
18G9 had 13 deaneries, 459 benefiees, 188 curates, and 
about 210,000 church sittings. The incumbent (18G9) 
is Charles John Ellicott, D.D. (consecrated in 18G3). 

Gloves, part of the insignia of a bishop. See^ 
Bishop. 

Glutton (bbiT, zolel' , Dent, xxi, 20; Prov. xxiii, 
21 ; a “ riotous” person, Prov. xxiii, 20 ; xxviii, 7, i. e. 
prodigal, voluptuous debauchee ; <pdyoc, given to eat- 
ing , “gluttonous,” Matt, xi, 19; Luke vii, 34). 

Gnapheus (or Fullonius),Wilhelmus, was born 
at the Hague in 1493. He was one of the earliest re- 
formers in the Netherlands. He was rector of the 
school in his native place, and afterwards counselloi 
of the Margrave Albert of Brandenburg. He was a 
man of learning, and specially versed in Latin litera- 
ture. He shared in the afflictions of his friends, Jan do- 
Bakker or Pistorins, and Cornelis Hoon or Hoen, who 
became victims to Roman Catholic intolerance and per- 
secution. Released from captivit} r , he was again seized 
and condemned to spend three months in a monastery 
on bread and water. He was permitted to see the 
cause of the Reformation prosper, and to enjoy the es- 
teem and confidence of his countrymen. He died in 
1568, at Norden, of which he was burgomaster. He 
wrote several works in Latin, which hear evidence of 
his familiarity with the writings of Erasmus. II is 
most important work is his Life of Johannes PLtorius. 
It was probably written in 1526, and was published at 
Praslmrg in 1529. Its title is Joh. Pistorii Woerden- 
sis , oh evangelicce veritatis assertionem , apud Hollandos 
primi omnium exusti martyrium. A new edition was 
brought out in 1649 by Prof. Reuins of Leyden. See 
Glasius ,Godyeleerd Nederland, 1 D. biz. 531, 532; Ypeij 
en Dermout, Geschiedenis der Nederlandsehe IJeivortnde 
Kerk, 1 D. biz. 104, Aanteek. biz. 40 (79) ; also, Har- 
kenrothii vitie Gnaphai descrijttio, in Bibl. Bremens. 
class, viii, fase. i, p. Ill sq. ; Herzog, Real-Encykl. xix, 
5GG. (J.P.AV.) 

Gnash (p^H, charak', to grate tbe teeth ; (3pv\u>, 
Acts vii, 54 ; Mark ix, 18). “To gnash with 

the teeth,” and “gnashing of teeth,” are expressions 
that occur in several parts of Scripture, denoting rage 
or sorrow (.lob xvi, 9 ; Psa. cxii, 10; Lam.ii, 1G; Matt, 
viii, 12). See Tootii. 

Gnat (kcjji'ou//, Vulgate culex, occurs only in Matt, 
xxiii, 24), a small two-winged stinging fly, belonging 
to the genus culex (Linn, diptera , Latronne culicidce ), 
which inedudes the mosquitoes. The common gnat 
scarcely yields to any insect in regard to the interest- 
ing facts which it presents to the naturalist. The fol- 
lowing outline will recall the chief of them to the read- 
er: The boat-shaped raft of eggs , which the parent 
gnat forms and leaves upon the water, so admirably 
constructed that, though hollow, it neither becomes 


GNAT 


890 


GNOSTICISM 


filled with water, nor sinks even under the torrents of 
a thunder-shower; the aquatic larva , breathing, head 
downwards, through its tufted spiracle; its hook with 
which it seizes the animalcules on which it feeds; the 
variations and even reverses of structure it undergoes 
in the pupa state, now swimming, head upwards, by 
means of its Unlike tail, and breathing through spira- 
cles placed behind the head ; the amazing transforma- 
tion it undergoes when raising its shoulders out of the 
water, and upon the bursting of the skin which had 
enveloped them, the perfect insect emerges, its former 
covering now serving as a life-boat during those few 
critical moments while it disengages and trims its 
wings for flight, and commences its existence a winged 
creature in a new element, and instantly begins to 
suck the juices of animals or vegetables, "while “its 
shrill horn its fearful ’larum lings;” the complicated 
mechanism of its tube , which serves the purposes both 
of lancet and cupping-glass, and of inserting a fluid for 
liquefying the blood, and m iking it flow more freely. 
The various organs, comprehended in so small a struc- 
ture, excited the wonder of Pliny (l list. Nat. xi,2), and 
attracted the notice of Socrates, as we learn from his 
poetical adversary Aristophanes (Xnbcs, 158); but the 
further discoveries of the microscope raise our wonder 
into a still higher principle. “ I dare boldly affirm,” 
says Swammerdam, “th it the incomprehensible great- 
ness of Deity manifests itself in these mysterious oper- 
ations in a particular m inner, and affords an opportu- 
nity of examining, as it were with our senses, the di- 
vine nature” (p. 2, 51). The word km i'toif/ seems to lie 
the generic term for the gnat among the ancient Greek 
writers, under which they included several species , as 
we use the word “fly,” and “ the fly;” though they 
giv - distinct names to some species, as the word aep- 
<poc, etc. IJoscnmiiller observes that the Kibiao—ec of 
the Greeks seem to he the ephemera, of Linnaeus (apnd 
Bochart, iii, 144, 4to, Lips. 1793-6). Aristotle gives 
the name to a species whose larvae are bred in the lees 
of wine, which is thence called the culer vinaHus(IHst. 
An. 5, 19). Pliny also refers to various species of 
gnats (Hist. Xat. xi, 35 ; xvii, 27). We ourselves rec- 
ognise several kinds under the common name, as gall- 
gnats, horse, wheat, winter (see Kirby and Spence, In- 
trod. to Entomology). See Fly. 

Our Saviour’s allusion to the gnat is a kind of prov- 
erb, either in use in his time, or invented by himself, 
“ Blind guides, who strain out a gnat, and swallow 
down [bolt, as we say] a camel.” lie adopts the an- 
tithesis of tfle smallest insect to the largest animal, and 
applies it to those who are supcrstitiously anxious in 
avoiding small faults, yet do not scruple to commit the 
greatest sins. The typographical error, “ strain at a 
gnat,” first found its way into king James’s transla- 
tion, 1611 (Trench, Auth. )Yrs. p. 131). It is “strain 
out" in the previous translations. The custom of fil- 
tering wine, among the Jews, for this purpose, was 
founded on the prohibition of “all flying, creeping 
things ’ being used for food, excepting the saltatorii 
(Lev. xi, 23). The custom seems alluded to bv the 
Sq)t., which in Amos vi, 6 reads tivXttT/xkvog olvog, 
“filtered wine” — a passage having a similar scope. 
According to the Talmud, eating a gnat incurred 
scourging or excommunication (Vorstius, De Adagiis, 
A. T, ., p. 771, ed. Fischer; Grief, Oraculum Christi con- 
tra percoluntes. culicem, etc., Lips. 1749). — Kitto, s. v. 

The species referred to in the X. T. is thought by 
Bochart (Ilieroz. iii, 444) to he the Culex vinarius , the 
yabchush' , of the Talmud (Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. 
p. 927, a). The Hob. kinnim' (sing. “2, Isa. li, 

6), which constituted one of the plagues upon Egypt 
(Lxod. viii, 16 sq. ; comp. Psa. cv, 31), are thought to 
have been a species of culex or gnat (comp.TIcrod. ii, 
954, as these insects are very numerous ip Egypt (Has- 
selquist, Trav. p. 69; Maillet, Descr. de V Egypt e, ii, 134, 
ed. Mascrier). — Winer, ii, 118. See Lice. 


The weapon with which the gnat or mosquito makes 


its attack is a long and slender 
proboscis, projecting from the 
mouth like a very fine bristle, 
and appearing to the naked eve 
quite simple. Under the magni- 
fying power of the microscope, 
however, it is seen to bo a flexi- 
ble sheath (i) inclosing six dis- 
tinct pieces, two of which are cut- 
ting blades or lancets (g), two 
notched like a saw with reverted 
teeth (f), a tubular canal (e), and 
the central one an exceedingly 
acute point, which is also tubular 
(d). AYhen the attack is made, 
the gnat brings the tip of the or- 
gan within its sheath to press 
upon the skin, into which it pres- 
ently enters, the sheath remain- 
ing without and bending into an 
angle as the lancets descend. 

When the weapon has penetrated 
to its base — a distance of one 
sixth of an inch or more- — the , j , , 

lancets move laterally, and thus Xf fff € tlf g 
cut the flesh on either side, pro- 1 
motingthe flow of blood from the Organs juuUMouth of 
superficial vessels ; at the same 
moment a highly irritative fluid is poured into the 
wound, which has the effect of diluting the blood, and 
thus of rendering it more capable of flowing up the 
slender central tube into the throat of the insect. It 
then sucks, if undisturbed, till its stomach is filled to 
repletion, leaving a painful tumor accompanied with 
an intolerable itching. It is the female gnat alone 
which is noxious ; the male, "whose proboscis is feath- 
ered, has no power of sucking blood. — Fairbairn, s. v. 

Gnesen, a.town in the Prussian province of Posen, 
with (in 18G5)*8950 inhabitants. It is believed to be 
the most ancient town of the former Polish empire. 
The cathedral church contains the relics of St. Adal- 



bert, the apostle of the Prussians, which were pur- 
chased and deposited there by duke Boleslav 1. Soon 
after, at the beginning of the 11th century, Gnesen was 
made the see of an archbishop, Gandcntius, the broth- 
er and companion of St. Adalbert, being the first in- 
cumbent of that dignity. The archbishops of Gnesen 
were primates of the Polish empire, the first after the 
king, and the regents of the empire during the vacan- 
cy of the throne. In 1821 the united archbishopric of 
Posen and Gnesen was organized, the archbishop re- 
siding at Posen, hut Gnesen remaining the seat of a 
chapter. Sec Xeher, Kircld. Statistik, vol. ii. (A. J. S.) 


GllOSimachi (y vuxric and pd\ 0 jiai), a name given 
to those in the 4th century who were the avowed ene- 
mies of the Gnostics. A certain Rhetorius is said to 
have formed a sect on the principle that matters of 
doctrine are indifferent, as no certainty can be obtain- 
ed as to doctrine ; hut that a good life is all that is es- 
sential to Christianity. “ It may be a question wheth- 
er there was ever a regularly constituted sect profess- 
ing such indifference to doctrines; whether the fact 
ever amounted to anything more than this, that indi- 
viduals at different times and in different places were 
led by the same opposition and the same tendency of 
mind to entertain these views, of which individuals 
the above-mentioned Rlictorius may have been one.” 
— Xeandcr, Church History (Torre j'’s), ii, 702. 


Gnosis. Sec Gnosticism. 

Gnosticism. A. Gnosis . — The New-Testament 
writers were occasionally determined in their choice 
of prominent words by the expressions which were 
current among the people they addressed. Such words 
as logos and gnosis, having acquired a peeuliar signifi- 
cation in the schools, were recognised by them, and 


GNOSTICISM 


801 


GNOSTICISM 


appropriated to a sacred use. We concede, indeed, 
that the latter word (yvioati;) usually denotes in their 
writings simply what its etymology implies, the mere 
act of knowing, or the objective knowledge thus ac- 
quired. In those primitive times it was seldom that 
any systematic or scientific exposition of Christian 
truth was demanded. The contest was with reference 
to the simple facts of the Gospel, and Christianity was 
fain to secure an existence in the world before it had 
leisure to speculate upon abstract points. Not only 
was it unwise to divert men’s minds from practical re- 
ligion, but many true believers were too carnal to be 
intrusted with a higher wisdom. Paul, therefore, and 
his fellow-laborers determined to confine their apos- 
tolic ministrations to such a historical presentation of 
Jesus Christ and him crucified as might be called the 
simplest milk of the word. He declares, however (1 
Cor. ii, 6), that he sometimes made known a higher 
wisdom among such as were perfect, though a wisdom, 
he is careful to say, very different from that which 
some heathen and Jewish philosophers had claimed. 
In other passages he applies the word gnosis to this 
kind of wisdom. He specifies “the word of knowl- 
edge” among those peculiar gifts of the Spirit which 
were possessed by the more eminent teachers (1 Cor. 
xii, 8), and commends a knowledge through which the 
more discerning believers rose above the fear of the 
heathen gods, and ate of the things offered to idols as 
of things in themselves indifferent (1 Cor. viii, 7). 
lie speaks also of a gnosis falsely so called, and thus 
implies that there was another which truly deserved 
the name (1 Tim. vi, 20). In subsequent times this 
use of the word became common, and great pains were 
taken to make obvious the distinction between the true 
(yvuxnQ aXtjOiv,)') and the false gnosis (yviooit; \ptvdio- 
vvfioQ ). A lately (1715) discovered treatise of Irenae- 
us (entitled yvioa. «A?/9.), and an extended description 
of the true Gnostic at the close of the Stromata of 
Clement of Alexandria, have preserved to us the views 
of the Church on this subject near the close of the 2d 
century. 

It was admitted on all sides that there was a knowl- 
edge of divine things superior to that of the multitude, 
not in its importance to the salvation of the soul, blit 
in its intellectual power. It belonged not so much to 
the pulpit as to the schools, and was important not so 
much to the personal salvation as to the comfort and 
growth of believers, and to the acceptance of the Gos- 
pel among the more educated classes. It took up 
those facts which were objects of the common faith, 
and made them subjects of speculation and profound 
thought. It arranged them, drew from them logical 
conclusions, reconciled their apparent discrepancies 
with each other and with the conclusions of science, 
and applied them to long-agitated questions which 
were only hinted at, hut not solved, in the Christian 
Scriptures. At this point, however, the true and the 
false gnosis separated, and took different directions. 
The former submitted itself without reserve to the au- 
thority of the Scriptures, and professed never to ven- 
ture beyond what was written. It presented itself to 
all men without discrimination of natural talents or 
social condition. The latter claimed to be above the 
reach of the vulgar, and to be derived from sources 
superior to the written word. Clement describes the 
true Gnostic as one who grows gray in the study of 
the Scriptures. A scientific culture may be indispen- 
sable to the higher departments of that study, and a 
true spiritual discernment can be acquired only by 
divine grace, but the natural talents which must be 
used in its acquisition have been given to all, and each 
one’s success will be proportioned to bis prayerful dil- 
igence. The sources of knowledge, too, were the same 
for the humblest believer and the most eminent Gnos- 
tic, for all had access to the Scriptures and the com- 
mon tradition ( irapacoaiQ ) which had been transmitted 
in all the churches. The gnosis was simply a faith 


made perfect, an expansion of what faith had received, 
a building constructed wholly of materials supplied by 
faith. Its advocates made much use of a passage in 
Isa. vii, 9 (Sept.) : “ If ye believe not, neither shall ye 
understand;” from which they inferred not only that 
faith is indispensable to knowledge, but that knowl- 
edge should spring from faith. And yet it cannot be 
denied that many, especially of the Alexandrian school, 
gave an undue prominence to this higher knowledge, 
as if it were indispensable to all religion, and dispar- 
aged the great bod}" of believers ( [iriGTiKoi ) as incapa- 
ble of a true spiritual life, as in communion only with 
the Christ of an earthly and sensuous life, and as actu- 
ated only by a fear of punishment and a desire of per- 
sonal benefits. The true Gnostic, on the other hand, 
they believed to be favored with such an intuitional 
faculty for the discernment of truth, and such a per- 
petual tuition under the divine Logos, that he could 
dispense, in a great degree, with outward demonstra- 
tions ; and they claimed that his love of knowledge was 
so intense and disinterested, that if it could even lie 
separated from his eternal salvation he would not hes- 
itate still to choose it. The subjects on which they de- 
lighted to expatiate were chiefly : God, as he must be 
conceived of in his absolute being, the incarnation and 
redeeming work of Christ, the influence of these upon 
our race and upon other beings, the vast chain of ex- 
istence between man and God, the fall of some links 
in this chain and their probable recovery, the origin 
of this world, the source of moral evil and its elimina- 
tion from the universe, and the future history and des- 
tiny of all things. In the discussion of such themes, 
we need not be surprised to find that they not unfre- 
quently transcended the province both of reason and 
of faith, and that some of their speculations were con- 
demned b} r their more temperate brethren (Neander, 
Hist, i, 544-52; Ilase, Hist. § 85; Schaff, Hist. Christ. 
Church , vol. i, ch. iv). 

B. Heretical Gnosticism. — I. General Character. — 
The name Gnosticism has been applied to a variety of 
schools which had sometimes little in common except 
the assumption of a knowledge higher than that of or- 
dinary believers. Most of them claimed a place in 
the Church, and complained bitterly when this was 
denied them ; and yet they generally spoke of Chris- 
tianity as insufficient to afford absolute truth, and not 
unfrequently they assumed a hostile attitude towards 
it. They seldom pretended to demonstrate the prin- 
ciples on which their systems were founded by histor- 
ical evidence or logical reasonings, since they rather 
boasted that these were discovered by the intuitional 
powers of more highly endowed minds, and that lhc 
materials thus obtained, whether through faith or di- 
vine revelation, were then worked up into a scientific 
form according to each one’s natural power and cul- 
ture. Their aim was to construct not merely a theory 
of redemption, but of the universe — a cosmogony. No 
subject was beyond their investigations. Whatever 
God could reveal to the finite intellect, they looked 
upon as within their range. What to others seemed 
only speculative ideas, were by them hypostatizod or 
personified into real beings or historical facts. It was 
in this way that they constructed systems of specula- 
tion on subjects entirely beyond the range of human 
knowledge, which startle us h} r their boldness and 
their apparent consciousness of reality. 

II. External Origin . — And yet we have reason to be- 
lieve that Gnosticism originated no speculations which 
were essentially new. It only recognised and select- 
ed what seemed to it true in earlier systems, and then 
combined these fragments in new relations — not in the 
way of a crude syncretism, but with mutual affinities 
and living power. No question, however, has more 
perplexed historians than that which refers to the di- 
rect origin of Gnosticism. Wc are in possession of 
scarcely any authenticated documents which have 
come down to us from persons living at the time and 


GNOSTICISM 


802 


GNOSTICISM 


in countries in which it had its birth. "We are depend- 
ent for our information respecting it almost entirely 
upon the representations of opponents, who knew al- 
most nothing of Oriental systems, and were acquaint- 
ed with it only in its maturity. Unfortunately, too, 
the question of the origin of Gnosticism has recently 
become complicated with others on which violent par- 
ty feelings have been exercised. Those who have de- 
nied the apostolic origin of the epistles in which traces 
of Gnosticism have been discovered, have felt an in- 
terest in removing both the epistles and Gnosticism to 
as late a period ns possible. From the discussion of 
this subject, however, there are some facts which may 
now be regarded as incontrovertible. 3. Ever since 
the conquests of Alexander the Great, an intense in- 
terest had been felt throughout Asia Minor and Egypt 
in Hellenistic philosophy and Oriental theosophy ; and 
while the old mythologic fables and professed systems 
of positive revelation had lost their authority, many 
thoughtful persons had discovered under these what 
they looked upon as a uniting bond of truth and the 
elements of a universal religion. 2. The result was 
that, near the time of the lirst promulgation of Chris- 
tianity, a number of new systems of religious philoso- 
phy sprung up independently in different countries, 
and exhibited similar characteristics. They were usu- 
ally formed by incorporating with the national relig- 
ion what seemed attractive elements in foreign sys- 
tems, and softening down what was harsh and incred- 
ible in the popular faith and worship. In this way we 
discover a ncarty simultaneous origin of the Jndaistic 
philosophy at Alexandria, of Essenism and Thernpou- 
tism in Egypt and southern Palestine, of the Cabba- 
listic literature in Syria and the East, and of New Pla- 
tonism among the Hellenistic nations. These were 
all offshoots from the same general root, and not nec- 
essarily deriving anything original, but unquestiona- 
bly drawing much assistance from one another. Sim- 
ilar circumstances everywhere called forth similar phe- 
nomena with no conscious interdependence. 3. AVe 
thus account for the origin of Gnosticism, and easily 
reconcile the conflicting views of different writers re- 
specting it. As the early ecclesiastical writers were 
themselves acquainted almost exclusively with Occi- 
dental literature, they were in the habit of ascribing 
the rise of Gnosticism to the study of Grecian philos- 
ophy, and especially of Platonism, and they appeal to 
the cosmogonies of Hesiod and others for the exemplars 
of the Gnostic speculations. Modern historians, how- 
ever, have found in most of the Gnostic systems such 
a predominance of Oriental elements, that they have 
been led to infer a direct influence not merely from 
Alexandrian Judaism, but dualistic Parsism, and even 
from pantheistic Buddhism. There can, in fact, be 
no question regarding the influence of all these sys- 
tems. The Platonic doctrines of a God, without dis- 
tinctions in his nature, withdrawn entirely within him- 
self, intelligible only to the initiated, and that only 
through the mediation of the Nous, a higher ideal 
sphere reflecting itself in a lower phenomenal world, 
a hyle (v\)f) and an undefined dualism between it and 
God, a fall of spiritual beings from the divine to the sen- 
suous sphere, the derivation of sin from a contact with 
the material element; the Pythagorean doctrine of 
numbers ; the Brahminic doctrine of emanation and 
hypostatizing of the divine attributes; the Parsic rep- 
resentation of the divine essence ns light, of a dualism 
in which God is subject to the continual aggression of 
a world of matter, and of a good principle in eternal 
conflict with the prince of darkness; and the Buddhist 
notions of a God in process of development, of souls 
longing to be freed from the bonds of matter, and to 
be raised above all sensible things, and reunited with 
the divine source of life, arc all unmistakable, and 
indicative of their respective sources. We need not, 
however, suppose that these elements were derived di- 
rectly from their original sources. The Alexandrian 


literature, in which most of these elements had found 
a place, was diffused among the educated classes in all 
those countries in which Gnosticism flourished, and 
might have been the mediating agency through which 
the mind of the East was brought into communication 
with that of the West. From the heterogeneous com- 
mingling of such diverse systems, and especially from 
their contact with the young energies of Christianity, 
the Gnostic spirit might easily draw forth such mate- 
rials as suited its purpose. The sources of Gnosticism, 
however, like those of the Nile, are to a great extent 
concealed, and those who imagine they have discover- 
ed its principal head not nnfrequently learn that an- 
other remains far be} ) 'ond. As its friends boasted, 
there were secret agencies by which truth was con- 
veyed to the elect race under symbols and an outward 
letter which only the)’- could understand. (See Bax- 
mann, in the Amer. Theol. Revieiv for 1862, p. G6G-76). 

III. Classification. — It has been found very difficult 
to arrange the several Gnostic sects according to any 
principle of classification. They have been grouped 
together by different writers according to their ori- 
gin, their geographical position, and their speculative 
views. Neander ( Hist . Christ. Religion , i, 379-80) di- 
vides them into Judaizing and anti-Judaizing Gnos- 
tics, according to their agreement or opposition to an- 
cient Judaism. Gieseler (Reel. Hist. vol. i, §44) ar- 
ranges them according to their geographical order, as 
Alexandrian, Syriac, and miscellaneous. Hase {Hist. 
Chr. Ch. § 76) makes four classes, Syrian, Hellenistic, 
Judaizing, and specially Christian. Similar to this is 
Matter’s division into those of Syria, Asia Minor, 
Egypt, and the rest of the Iioman world {Hist. crit. du 
Gnost.). Baur {Chr. Gnosis. 1835) arranges the several 
sects into three principal classes, according to their re- 
lation to the three earlier religions with which they 
came in contact: 1. Those who combined Christianity 
with Judaism and heathenism ; 2. Those who entirely 
separated it from them, and opposed it to them ; and, 
3. Those who identified it with Judaism, but opposed it 
to heathenism. This ingenious, and, in many respects, 
satisfactory division, fails to bring out the historical 
progress and internal development of the Gnostic sys- 
tems, and offers no suitable place for Manichaeism. It 
has, however, found much favor on account of its sim- 
plicity, and has been adopted with some modifications 
by Niedner, Marheineke {Weltalter. th. ii, p. 246), Ten- 
neinann {Manual of the Hist, of Phil. § 200), and oth- 
ers. Dr. Schaff proposes a classification, according to 
an ethical point of view, into the speculative and the- 
osophic, the practical and ascetic, and the Antinomhn 
and libertine {Hist, of the Chr. Cli. i, 234). It is evi- 
dent that no classification can combine together a 
chronological, local, and logical distribution, and hence 
we shall probably gain something by presenting these 
separately. 

IV. History. — In attempting to give a historical 
outline of the course of Gnosticism, our object is not 
so much to present particular details of the several 
schools, since these will be found, as far as possible, 
under their several heads in this work, but to indicate 
in general the order and position of each. Lipsius, in 
a recent work ( Gnosticism , its Essence, Origin , and De- 
velopment, 1860), endeavors to show that this course of 
developnicnt was a curve which commenced with only 
a slight departure from orthodoxy, and, after diverg- 
ing more and more from it, finally comes back again 
gradually to the true path. Another writer (Ililgen- 
feld) has attempted a distinct definition of the three 
stadia of this development. It is difficult to discover 
in the actual history the regularity of departure and 
return implied in such a figure, and yet we may derive 
from it a correct notion of the general direction. In 
the first stadium we have the Judaizing Gnostics, and 
then the several classes who, in their opposition to Ju- 
daism, deify nearly all the godless characters of the 
Old Testament. In the second we have not merely 


GNOSTICISM 


S93 


GNOSTICISM 


Old-Testament history, but Greek philosophy, a con- 
tempt of the common faith, the opposition of the psy- 
chic and pneumatic natures, and mythical personifi- 
eations of speculative ideas. In the third and last 
stadium this opposition between the pneumatic and 
psychic natures begins to be modified, and finally, un- 
der the Marcionites, the Gnostic speculation approxi- 
mates very nearly that of the more liberal Catholic 
teachers. It is in this last stadium that we find the 
greatest difficulty in seeing how the curve approxi- 
mates with much uniformity the orthodox highway, 
for some classes of the later Marcionites, and, above all, 
the Manichees, seem rather to have been the extreme 
consummation of Gnosticism. 

As there were strong tendencies towards Gnosticism 
both in Judaism and heathenism, we might reasonably 
infer that the Gnostics must have been powerfully at- 
tracted by Christianity. It was, however, more consist- 
ent with the essential spirit of that movement to attempt 
to mould the new system to its fancy than to submit 
with docility to the exclusive authority of the Gospel. 
Among the remnants of Oriental tribes in Samaria we 
are not surprised to find such a man as Simon, who 
succeeded in making the multitude believe that he was 
the great power of God. It is said that he called him- 
self the creative world-spirit, and his female compan- 
ion the receptive world-soul. We have here a like- 
ness of the Gnostic doctrine of aeons and syzigies. In 
the tradition of the subsequent Church, this half-myth- 
ical personage became the patriarch of all heretics, but 
especially of heathen Gnostics (Irenseus, Adv. hcev. lib. 

i, c. xxvii, § 4 ; Ilippol. i, G2 sq.). During the twenty 
years which intervened between the first Christian 
Pentecost and the later epistles of Paul, we know that 
theosophic speculations were everywhere prevalent in 
Syria and Asia Minor, and that these were strangely 
mingled with Christian doctrines. Great freedom was 
allowed to religious thought, even among the early 
Christians, as long as the moral and religious life of 
the people was not perverted. But Paul very soon 
discovered dangerous tendencies in the churches which 
he had recently established in Asia Minor. Josephus 
tells us that Alexander the Great had sent into the 
provinces of Lydia and Phrygia 2000 Mesopotamian 
and Babylonian Jews to garrison the disaffected towns 
there, and we are informed that the inhabitants of that 
region have always since been prone to mystical and 
Oriental superstitions (Alford, How to use the Epistles , 
Epistle to the Colossians, Sunday Mag. 1867, p. 829). 
The errors which he reproved at Colossne were doubt- 
less a curious commixture of Jewish and heathen 
speculations. The ancient historian Ilegesippus in- 
forms us (Euseb. Eccl . Ilist. iii, 32) that the heretical 
gnosis did not make its appearance with an uncovered 
head until after the death of the apostles, but that it 
previously worked in secret. After all the conten- 
tions of various writers on the question how far this 
error prevailed in apostolic times, there is a general 
agreement that, while most of the heresies of that pe- 
riod were Judaistic, there was an obvious difference 
between those reproved in the Galatian churches and 
those noticed in the epistles to the Colossians and Tim- 
othy. The latter arc treated much more mildly, and 
we readily perceive that they must have been much 
less developed and less subversive of the Christian 
system. They are expressly called (1 Tim. vi, 20) a 
false gnosis, and were characterized by empty sounds 
without sense and subtle oppositions to the truth, a 
depreciation of the body, and a worship of angels (Col. 

ii, 18, 23), and interminable genealogies and myths (1 
Tim. i, 4). These seem more akin to Jewish than to 
heathen speculations, and imply not the completed 
Gnosticism of the second century, but the manifest 
germs of Docetic emanations and Gnostic dualism. 
Irenaeus, on the authority of Polycarp, relates (Adv. 
liter. i, 2G) that John was acquainted with Cerinthus, 
and wrote the fourth gospel to refute his errors. Both 


he and Epiphanius (liter, p. 28) say that Cerinthus 
taught that the world was not made by the Most High 
God, but by a lower power,* or by angels, and that Je- 
sus was an ordinary man, whom the supreme Logos 
became united with at his baptism, but forsook during 
his last sufferings, to reunite with him in the future 
kingdom of Messianic glory. See Cerinthus. Here 
the Gnosticism becomes plainly perceptible, and we 
can certainly understand a number of passages in 
John’s Gospel and Epistles better if we suppose a refer- 
ence in them to these and similar errors. The Nico- 
laitans of the Apocalypse and the false teachers of the 
Epistle of Jude despised Judaism as the work of evil 
angels, ridiculed and trampled upon the law that they 
might insult these limited powers, and thus fell into a 
strange complication of gross licentiousness and bodily 
mortifications (Burton, Heresies of the A post. Age ; Pot- 
ter in the old and AV. L. Alexander in the new edition 
of Kitto’s Cyclop. ; Conybeare, in Conybeare and How- 
son’s Life of St. Paul, note at the end of vol. i. Comp. 
C. C. Tittmann, De vestigiis Gnosticor. in A r . T.frustra 
qutesitis , Leips. 1773; transl. and pub], in Contributions 
to Foreign Literature , New York, 1827). No sooner had 
the direct influence of the apostles and their immedi- 
ate successors ceased than the speculative interest and 
numbers of the Gnostics began to increase mightily. 
Near the commencement of the 2d century, flourished 
about the same time Basilidcs in Alexandria and his 
son Isidore [see Basilides], the dualistic and ascetic 
Saturninns in Antioch, Carpocratcs of Alexandria, and 
his son Epiphanes. The last two maintained that ev- 
ery one who could soar to the same height of contem- 
plation might attain the same powers with Christ, and 
that Christ differed in no respect from the wise and 
good of all nations. About the same time we first be- 
come acquainted with the party commonly called Oph- 
] ites, though Origcn says that it was founded by a cer- 
tain Euphrates, who must have lived as early as the 
time of Christ. Their common appellation (Ophites, 
Heb. Naasenes) was given them by their opponents 
(for they always called themselves simply Gnostics), 
because they were said to pay great honor to the ser- 
pent as the instrument of the temptation in Eden. As 
the prohibition then transgressed was designed to keep 
man back from knowledge, what is commonly called 
the Fall was, in fact, a transition to a higher state. 
When first known they resided principally in Egypt 
and in Phrygia. They afterwards became numer- 
ous, and branched off into various subdivisions. See 
Ophites. Great differences, however, are discovera- 
ble between those who bear the same name. In the 
next generation (A.D. 140-1G0) belongs Valentinus, 
who flourished first in Egypt and then in Borne, and 
finally died in the island of Cyprus (about A.D. 1G0). 
The school named after him was the most influential 
of all the Gnostic parties, and contained a large num- 
ber of talented and eminent teachers. It was divided 
into an Oriental and an Italian branch, in both of 
which was inculcated a highly exalted style of relig- 
ion. Among its most esteemed writers may he mention- 
ed lleracleon of Alexandria, who wrote a commentary 
on John’s Gospel, some extracts from which, preserved 
in Origen, admirably bring out the profound spirit of 
this evangelist ; Ptolemy, whose epistle to Flora has 
come down to us in Epiphanius, and endeavors to show 
that his system was not inconsistent with the Catholic 
faith ; Marcus, probably a Jew of Palestine, in whose 
poetic and symbolical work divine aeons discourse in 
liturgical forms ; and Bardesanes, an Armenian of 
Edessa (about 170), who, with his son Ilarmonius, 
was immensely popular as a writer of hymns and imi- 
tations of David’s Psalms. (See the articles under 
these names.) Contemporary with Valentinus lived 
Cerdon, a Syrian, and his pupil Marcion of Sinope, in 
Pontus, who carried their zeal for Panline and primi- 
tive Christianity to such an extreme that they rejected 
not only all secret traditions, but large portions of the 


GNOSTICISM 


S94 


GNOSTICISM 


New Testament. They opposed heathen religions as 
the work of the devil, and Judaism as the product of 
an inferior and wrathful deity, who was to be put down 
bv Christ and the revelation through him of the su- 
preme God. Kindred with him were Apelles of Alex- 
andria, and his pupils Lucas and Marcus, who approx- 
imated still nearer a Christian orthodoxy, though with 
singular inconsistencies. Tatian, a Syrian, a rhetori- 
cian in Lome, during the latter part of his life is said 
to have fallen into Gnostic errors, and to have pre- 
scribed a system of extreme abstinence as the only 
means of disengaging ourselves from the world. A 
part}” of Eneratites, calling themselves by his name or 
by that of his pupil Severus, continued as late as the 
4th century. A class of persons represented by the 
Clementine Homilies at Koine, and sometimes reck- 
oned among the Gnostics, ought rather to be classed 
with the Ebionites. See Clementines, We now 
come in contact with several classes of the Ophites, 
many of whom, according to Origen, went so far in 
their opposition to ordinary views that they admitted 
none to their assemblies who did not eurse Christ (Me- 
ander, i, 440 sq.). The whole system of the God of 
the Jews was looked upon by this seet as oppressive 
to man, and whoever is represented in the scriptural 
history as rebelling against it were regarded as saints, 
lienee some of the worst characters of the Old and 
New Testament were held in the highest honor. Even 
Jesus was reckoned among agents of the Jewish Jeho- 
vah, and his betrayal by Judas Iscariot was extolled as 
done with the best of motives and results. Those w r bo 
maintained this position were called Cainites, while 
such as dissented from such extravagances were dis- 
tinguished as Sethites. The Perates, who have re- 
cently beeome known to us through the Philosopbou- 
mena, appear to have approximated much nearer the 
Catholic doctrine. During the 3d eentury Gnosticism 
appears to have lost its power, for the orthodox party 
had now attained more seientitie precision of thought, 
and their formulas of faith presented scriptural doc- 
trine in a style consistent with the highest culture of 
the age. Towards the close of that eentury, however, 
arose in the distant East one more attempt to combine 
Christianity with Oriental theosophy. Maniehaeism 
sprang up in a region where neither Hellenism nor 
Judaism was familiar ; and its object appears to have 
been to reform the corrupted Parsism of that day by 
incorporating with the original system of Zoroaster 
numerous elements taken from a gnosticized Christi- 
anity and Buddhism. To Christianity, however, it 
seems to have been indebted more for its names and 
symbols than for its essential history or characters. 
Personages and faets taken from scriptural records find 
in that system an entirely new significance. Its found- 
er (Maui or Manes, a Magian banished from Persia) 
discovered many points of agreement between the doc- 
trines of Parsism, Buddhism, and Gnostic Christianity, 
and endeavored to combine these three s3 r stems into 
one universal religion. He accounted for all things 
on dualistie principles. His followers were soon driv- 
en by persecution from their earliest seats, but were 
numerous during the fourth eentury in every part of 
the East, and in Africa, Sicily, and Italy. Many per- 
sons of noble spirit were attracted by it, but it soon 
fell into gross licentiousness by its professed exaltation 
above outward things, and of course lost its place in 
common esteem, and fell into contempt. Some ves- 
tiges, however, both of Mareionism and Manielueism, 
remained even into the Middle Ages, and by means of 
the Priscillianists, the Paulicians, the Bogomiles, and 
the Cathari, transmitted the leading features of Gnos- 
ticism to distant ages and countries. 

Many of these sects can hardly be recognised as 
within the pale of Christianity. While somtf of them 
claimed a place within the ( Juireh, and refused to leave 
it when they were disowned by its authorities, others 
openly abjured the Christian name. Certainly such 


complete subverters of the essentials of the Gospel as 
the Carpocratians, Perates, Sethites, Cainites, and 
Maiiiehajans deserve to be called rather gnosticized 
heathen than Christian Gnosties. In the history of 
the Church they deserve a place only because they, 
like other heathen, influenced it from without. In a 
history of Gnosticism even these must have no unim- 
portant position. Indeed, no history of this system is 
quite complete without embracing some still more re- 
mote systems — Cabbalistic Judaism, Neo-Platonism, 
etc., which had their origin under Gnostic influences. 

V. General Principles. — The ultimate aim of Gnosti- 
cism was to present a perfect solution of the great prob- 
lem of the origin and destiny of the universe, and espe- 
cially of the origin of evil, 7ro\v$pv\i]Tov ttu- 

Scv 1 ) KaKta. The three ideas which were fundamental 
to all its speculations were : 1. A supreme being, uncon- 
nected with matter, and incapable of being afteeted by 
it; 2. Matter, v\ r}, eternal, the source of evil, and op- 
posed to God ; and, 3. A series of beings intermediate 
between these two. The primary souree of all spiritual 
existence was an eternal abyss (j3v^6c\ so utterly be- 
yond human representation that no one should venture 
to name him, or even to eoneeive of him. He was the 
absolute one, and virtually and logically non-existent 
(o vk tor). In bis nature, however, there was some in- 
conceivable ground of self-evolution ( 7rpoj3o\i/) f in con- 
sequence of which his infinite powers became revealed 
in a series of aeons, or hypostatized divine attributes. 
It is only through these that he can have communica- 
tion with finite natures. They are called icons (at- 
wwt) beeause they are eternal ones, representing the 
eternal Source of all (atwr). According to Valentinus, 
they emanated in pairs (syzigies) of different sexes. 
Basilides and Mareion aseribed their existence to an 
aet of love and to a creative word, but the more pan- 
theistic seets to a necessary process of emanation which 
is usually spoken of as by generation. Their number 
varies in different systems ; sometimes it is determined 
by planetary relations (12), sometimes by the days of 
the year (3G5), sometimes by the years in the life of 
Christ (32), but not un frequently it is left indefinite. 
The first aeons were Nous, Logos, Sophia, Dunamis. 
Aletheia, Zoe, ete., generated either by the original 
being or by one another in over-increasing imperfec- 
tion as they recede from their souree. Together they 
constitute the Pleroma, the world of light and divine 
fulness, but far removed from the infinite abyss with 
which none ean directly communicate. 2. Over against 
this Pleroma and this eternal abyss stands the world 
of matter (i'A>/), sometimes contradistinguished as the 
Kenoma, or the world of emptiness or darkness. This 
was usually spoken of as eternal, but eliaotic, and dis- 
ordered by internal strifes. It was generally described 
as far removed from the kingdom of light, but some- 
times as very near, and even on the confines of that 
kingdom. Some conceived of it as dead and power- 
less until it became animated by influences from the 
Pleroma, but others, and especially Manes and his fol- 
lowers, represented it as active and aggressive. Ac- 
cording to the former, one of the lowest and feeblest 
of the divine icons (called by Valentinus Sophia, the 
lower wisdom or Aehamoth, the Kano in distinction 
from the avio Gorin') fell from the abode of light and 
eame under the power of matter. Though Valentinus 
makes this, to some extent, a free aet of apostasy on the 
part of the divine aeon, as she was wandering beyond 
the bounds of the Pleroma, and agitated by her in- 
tense desire to get out of her proper sphere and en- 
ter into more direct communication with the infinite 
Souree, it was usually described as the result of an in- 
capacity to retain a hold upon the superior world, and 
a consequent precipitation into the darkness of the 
Kenoma. 3. At-this point we meet with the idea of 
the Demiurge. The name signifies a public worker 
(Sijpiovpyoc), and he is the same with the Avelion of 
Basilides and the Jaldabaoth (r,"rn“X;p?, the chaos- 


GNOSTICISM 


895 


GNOSTICISM 


born) of the Ophites. He came into being from the 
commingling of the light-nature in the Sophia (the 
Tn'fVfictTUCov <T7Tfp//tt) with matter. As the fruit of 
such a parentage, lie was possessed of a nature neither 
pneumatic nor material, but psychical, and he occupies 
an intermediate position between the supreme God and 
the material world. lie is not, of course, an evil, but 
only a limited and imperfect being, and yet evil springs 
from the defects of his work and of his plans. lie acts 
in general with sincerity according to his power and 
light. By him the chaos of matter was transformed 
into an organized universe. The planetary heavens, 
and the sidereal spirits who are over them, and the 
whole course of the world, are under his control. In 
all this, how r ever, he is the unconscious instrument of 
higher powers in the world of light, who secretly influ- 
ence all his movements. Of this control he finally 
and gradually became aw-are, and by some teachers he 
is said to have become vexed and goaded into opposi- 
tion by the discovery, and by others to have gladly 
welcomed and submitted to it. He was the author of 
Judaism, and to some extent of Christianity; and 
hence by many Gnostics the former system was looked 
upon as defective, if not false, and even the latter, es- 
pecially in its mere letter, as incapable of imparting 
the highest wisdom. Only by Marcion was he re- 
garded as entirely independent of the supreme God in 
the work of creation and providence, since he was here 
in a department which belonged wholly to him. He 
remained the God of this world until the coming of 
Christ, who vanquished him at the crucifixion. 4. 
With respect to anthropology, the Gnostics held that 
the whole kingdom of the Demiurge was fallen. lie 
was himself the creature of a fallen jeon, and the world 
he created and rules is subject to imperfection. From 
his connection with matter there was produced a hu- 
man race, which in its totality is a microcosm, repre- 
senting within itself the three principles of the great 
universe, the supreme God, the Demiurge, and matter. 
This w*as in consequence of the creation of three class- 
es of men, higher or lower in proportion to their free- 
dom from matter. Marcion alone made this distinc- 
tion dependent upon the will of man himself ; the oth- 
er Gnostics made it a result of creation, or of a divine 
communication of the spark of light and life from the 
upper world. The highest of these, i. e. the spiritual 
( 7 Ti'SVf.iariKOi'), share largely in the nature of the low- 
est ajon ((To^frt), w ho originally fell from the Pleroma, 
and hence they are the only ones who can attain per- 
fection. They alone are capable of recognising and 
receiving the light which is communicated from above. 
The second class, the psychical ( xj/vKtKoi ), have the na- 
ture of the Demiurge himself, who has pow r er to raise 
them to some extent above the debasement of matter, 
and, by giving them legal forms, to impart to them a 
legal righteousness, hut not to afford them a recogni- 
tion of those divine mysteries which are beyond his 
ow’ii reach. The third class are the fleshly or hylic 
(c mpKucoi , iiXiKui) natures, in whom matter has usurped 
* human form and passion (7r«3o(;), has entire con- 
trol, and who are therefore destined to share the for- 
tunes of matter alone. Historically, the spiritual pre- 
dominated under the Christian dispensation, the psy- 
chical under the Jewish, and the fleshly among the 
heathen of all ages. Individuals, however, of each 
class are numerous under all these dispensations. In 
the aristocratic spirit of ancient Platonism, many Gnos- 
tics allowed of no transition from the one to the other 
of these classes, while others looked upon it as possi- 
ble for the louver to rise to the higher in consequence 
of a divine communication of special powers. 5. The 
Gnostic idea of redemption w*as simply that of a liber- 
ation of the light-spirit from its connection with mat- 
ter. Of course it is confined to the tw*o higher classes 
of onr race in whom that spirit is found. In every 
condition of humanity, some favored individuals are 
represented as sighing for deliverance. In this way 


were explained some glimpses of a higher knowledge, 
which break forth at intervals in the prophecies and 
psalms of the Jewish Scriptures, and in the writings 
of pagan philosophers. Some sparks of light were 
supposed to have been thrown into the breasts of no- 
bler persons, and the rational creation, as a whole (kt/- 
<nc), is represented as sighing for redemption (Pom. 
viii, 22). A recently discovered work (Pistis Sophia) 
contains the penitential sighings and longings of the 
neon (ero0m) when she had herself fallen from her orig- 
inal condition of divine intuition to that of mere faith. 
In pity for this sighing spirit, Christ, one of the high- 
est of all the aions, descends, and brings her, after in- 
numerable sufferings, back to the Pleroma, and under- 
takes the deliverance of all pneumatic natures. To 
accomplish this, he assumes, not a material form, since 
he can have no contact with matter, but only the ap- 
pearance of one. In answer to the longings of the 
Jews, the Demiurge had promised and actually sent 
among them a Messiah with only psychical powers. 
Most of the Gnostics suppose that the heavenly Christ 
(Sober) took possession of this Messiah, who had proved 
himself unable to accomplish what had been promised 
in his behalf, and that from the baptism by John until 
the crucifixion this true Redeemer acted through this 
personage. Some, however, held that the man Jesus, 
with whom the ceon Christ then became connected, 
combined in his owm nature all human elements with 
the powers of an oetherial spirit. As this Christ can- 
not suffer, everything in him which seemed like it, or 
like any imperfection, was either a docetic illusion, or 
wholly in the human personage with which he w*as 
united. This work of Christ, however, commenced 
not wholly w ith the life of Jesus, but, to some extent, 
with creation itself, in which the Redeemer inspired 
the unconscious Demiurge with many divine ideas, 
and during the whole process of the world’s govern- 
ment he is drawing congenial spirits to himself, and 
correcting man}' errors of the w r orld-ruler. II is re- 
deeming work, however, is effected entirely by the 
communication of the Gnosis, and especially the reve- 
lation of the true God. In the end, all pneumatic and 
psychical natures capable of redemption will be gath- 
ered ami raised to the Pleroma. Valentinus supposes 
that all psychical natures arc exalted only to a low*er 
degree of blessedness in a peculiar kingdom of the 
Demiurge. Matter with all fleshly natures will either 
be consumed by its own powers, or sink back into its 
original condition of utter deadness and absolute sep- 
aration from the light, or of internal confusion. G. 
The sources from wdiich the Gnostics professed to de- 
rive their know ledge were, (a.) Tradition, not so much 
that of the Church, which they generally looked upon 
as un philosophical, and fit only for the multitude, but 
that which was said to have been communicated by 
Christ to a narrow circle of congenial spirits, and by 
them transmitted to others. Marcion alone made this 
tradition -accessible to all. (6.) The ordinary Chris- 
tian Scriptures w r ere only partially received among 
them. Marcion and the more strenuous Judaistic 
Gnostics entirely rejected the Old Testament, and the 
more moderate recognised a distinction between its 
pneumatic, psychic, and hylic elements. Many of 
them disparaged portions of the New Testament also, 
while others accepted only of Paul’s waitings and an 
expurgated gospel of Luke, (c.) Other writings of 
highly enlightened persons belonging to particular 
sects. Thus Manes's writings w*ere much venerated 
among bis followers, and the prophecies of Cain and 
of a pretended seer named Parchor among the follow- 
ers of Basilides, and the apocryphal books of Adam, 
Enoch, Moses, Elias, Isaiah, Baruch, and others. (</.) 
Even the writings of the heathen poets and philoso- 
phers w*ere much used bv some, who, by a course of al- 
legorical explanations, like those which they applied 
to the Scriptures, discovered ineffable mysteries under 
the most unpromising outward letter. 7. With the 


GNOSTICISM 


896 


GOAD 


exception of the followers of Manes, we have no evi- 
dence that the Gnostics ever attempted a distinct ec- 
clesiastical organization. Many of them were never 
excluded from the orthodox churches, within which 
they only sought to form schools and social circles. 
They practised baptism, and believed that in this rite, 
as in the baptism of Christ, the higher spirit was more 
abundantly imparted, and the human spirit was eman- 
cipated from the power of the Demiurge. Most of 
them were inclined by their poetic fancies and their 
love of symbols to a gorgeous style of worship, but 
the more common ordinances and observances of the 
Church were neglected as useful only to such as were 
on the ground of mere faith. 8. Their ethics and prac- 
tical morality were usually dependent upon dualistic 
principles. Among the Hellenistic Gnostics it took 
the form of a struggle against matter, which not un- 
frequcntly ran into asceticism, and sometimes into the 
use of charms and astrological practices. The Ori- 
ental Gnostics, on the other hand, are said in many in- 
stances to have plunged into immoralities, sometimes 
with the view of showing their contempt for the Demi- 
urge and his laws, or because they regarded the body 
as an indifferent thing to a spirit united with the su- 
preme God, and subject to no inferior law. Saturni- 
nus, Marcion, and Manes rejected marriage ; but many 
Gnostics not only submitted to it, but looked upon it 
as the highest law of pneumatic natures. We have 
no evidence that the standard of morality was lower 
among the Gnostics generally than among orthodox 
Christians in general. 

One is amazed at the boldness, the fanciful nature, 
and the high pretensions of Gnosticism. In the course 
of a century and a half it comes and goes before us 
like a splendid vision. And yet its influence upon 
Christianity was profound and permanent. It gave 
occasion to a great expansion of Christian thought, to 
a clearer idea of the historical relation of Christianity 
to earlier and surrounding religions, and to a better 
definition of the basis of true faith. It deserves a 
more careful study than it has usually received. 

VI. Literature. — The original authorities are the ec- 
clesiastical writers of the period generally, but espe- 
cially Ircnams and Epiphanius, Ado. h ereses ; Tert.ul- 
lian, De prescript, liter ., contra Gnost. scorp ., adv. Val - ! 
entinianos , ado. Marcianum ; Ilippolytus, K«r« iraa. j 
dtp. t\sy\og, and the Philosnphmmena usually ascribed 
to him ; Theodoret, liter. Fabb. Also Clemens Alex, 
and Origen in many passages; Gnostic fragments in 
Grabc’s Spicilegium ; Miinter’s Odce Gnosticte (lvnpenh. 
1812) ; Pistis Sophia (a Gnostic work translated from a 
Copt. Codex by Schwartz and edited by Petcrmann, 1 
Berlin, 1851); Cerdus Xazarants (ed. by Norberg, and 
sometimes called the Bible of Gnosticism) ; Bardesanes i 
Gnosticns Syrorinn primus Hymnologus , and Antitheses [ 
Marcion 's GnnGici (two Gnostic works published by ' 
Aug. Halm, Lcips. 1819, 1823); also the Neo-PIatonist 
work of Plotinus, IIpoc r. yutotrnKuvg (Emend, ii, lib. 
ix). The English reader can gain access to many of 
these ecclesiastical writers by means of the A nte-Xi- 
cene Chr. Lib., edited by Drs. Roberts and Donaldson, 
now in course of publication at Edinburgh. 

The modern literature of Gnosticism is very abun- 
dant. Besides the general ecclesiastical histories of 
Gieseler, Ncander, Ilasc, and Selin fl’, the doctrinal his- 
tones of llagcnbach, E. K. Meier, E. C. Baur, A. Nean- 
der, L. Noack, and Sliedd, and the histories of philoso- 
phy by H. Ritter, Tennemann, F. I). Maurice, and the 
French history translated by C. S. Ilenrv, the more 
important speeial works on the subject are, A. Ncan- 
der, Gen'd. E 'ntwickl. d. corn, gnost. Syst. (Berl. 1818); 

•1 . Mutter, llistoire crit. du Gnosticismc (Par. 1828 [1843], I 
2 vols.) ; Dr. Edward Burton, Hampton lectures on the 
I I ere sit s of the Apost. Age (1829 ; Oxford, 1X30) ; F. C. 
Baur, I),e chr st. Gnosis (Tub. 1835), and Das Christen- I 
thum (Tub. 1X53), p. 159-213; .1. A. Moeldcr, Yersnch 
u. d. ( rspr. d. Gnost. (Tub. 1831); Mollcr, Gesch. der 


Kosmologie d. Grieck. Kirche (18G2) ; R. A. Lipsius, Gnos- 
ticismus , etc.(Leips. I860) ; Norton’s Ilist. of the Gnostics 
(1845) ; C. A. Lcwakl, De doctrina Gnost. (1818) ; H. 
Rossel, Gesch. d. Untersuch. it. d. Gnost. in Theol. Nachl. 
(Bcrl. 1847). Articles on Gnosticism have been pub- 
lished by F. R. Liicke in Berl. theol. Zeitschr. (1819); 
J. C. L. Gieseler, in Ilal. lit. Zeit. (1823) and Stud. it. 
Krit. (1830) ; F. C. Baur, Stud. u. Krit. (1837) ; II. T. 
Checver, in Amer. Bibl. Repository , Oct. 1840 ; R. Bax- 
mann, in Deutsche. Zeitschr. (1801), andtransl. in Amer. 
Theol. Rec. Oct. 1862 ; and on the later history of the 
Nazoreans, or Mandai Jahia, in the Christian Review, 
Jan. 1855 : an excellent article by J. L. Jacobi may be 
found in Herzog’s Real- Encyklop. fur prot. Theol. See 
also Appleton’s, Braude’s, and Chambers’s Cyclopae- 
dias. (C. P. W.) 

Goa, the largest of the Portuguese possessions in 
India, embracing the provinces of Salfette and Kan- 
kara and six islands. Its population was, in 1809, 
about 304,000, of whom two thirds were connected 
with the Roman Catholic Church. The city of Goa, 
the capital of Portuguese India, is the scat of an arch- 
bishop. The jurisdiction of the archbishop of Goa has 
been in modern times the subject of a violent dispute 
between the popes ami the kings of Portugal. See 
Portugal. (A. J. S.) 

Goad (*T^5p, malmad', an instrument for guiding ; 
the Greeks used the term (3ou\t)Z, Iliad , vi. 135, also 
fiovictj'Tpoi’, or simply Ktvrpov ; see Schottgen, De 
stimulo bourn , Francof. 1717 ; Hager, De irobg Ksvrpet 
XatcriZttr, Lips. 1738). “ Shamgar, the son of Anath, 

slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox- 
goad” (Judg. iii, 81). Maundrell gives us the 
best account of the ox-goad, which is no doubt j 
the same as that used in the days of Sham- / 
gar. “At Khan Leban the country people 
were now everywhere at plough in the fields 
in order to sow cotton. ’Twas observable 
that in ploughing they used goads of an extra- 
ordinary size; upon measuring of several I 
found them to be about eight feet long, and at 
the bigger end six inches in circumference. 

The}’ 1 are armed at the lessor end with a sharp ^ 

prickle for driving the oxen, and at the other o 

end with a small spade or paddle of iron, strong 
and massy, to clear the plough from the clay • 

that encumbers it in working” ( Journal of a £ 

Journey from Aleppo to Jeimsalem, p. 110). .2 

This was in the north of Syria. Prof. Hack- O 

ett says, “The ox-goads that I saw in t lie 
south I should judge to he quite as large. It 
is manifest that such an instrument, wielded 
l>y a strong arm, would do no mean execution. 

It is easy, therefore, to credit the account of 
Shamgar’s achievement. AVe may suppose, 
however (so fragmentary is the notice), that 
he was not entirely alone ; that some others 
rallied to his aid with such instruments of la- 
bor as they could snatch at the moment” (JU ^ ^ 
lustrations of Scripture, p. 155). See Agriculture. 

In the other passages where the word “goad” oc- 
curs it is the representative of a different term in the 
original; dorban', something poin ted (1 Sam. 

xiii, 21), or dorbon' (Eccles. xii, 11), which is, 

perhaps, properly the iron point to which the rod or 
handle, denoted by the previous term, >vas fixed. This, 
at least, is the explanation adopted by Jahn ( Archceol . 
i, 4, § 9) from Rabbinical writers (Gescnius, Thes. p. 
349). According to others, it may refer to anything 
pointed, and the tenor of Eccles. xii allows the sense 
of a peg or nail — anything, in short, which can hofast- 
ened; while in.l Sam. xiii the point of the ploughskat'e 
is possibly intended (which is likewise understood by 
the Sept, and Yulg. at Judg. h> t<Ij dporpairoct, vome- 
re'). There are undoubted references to the use of the 


GOAD 


89V 


GOAT 


goad in driving oxen in Ecelus. xxxviii, 25, and Acts 
xxvi, 14. The expression “to kick against the goads” 
(Acts ix, 5 ; A.V. “ the pricks”) was proverbially used 
by the Greeks for unavailing resistance to superior 
power (comp.iEschyl. A gam. 1G33 ; Prom. 323 ; Eurip. 
Bacch. 791). The same means of inciting animals to 
greater speed is probably alluded to in 2 Kings iv, 24. 
(See generally Buckingham, Travels in Palestine, i, 91 ; 
Kitto, Daily Bible Illustr. ii, 341 ; Thomson, Land and 
Book , i, 501.) See Ox. 

Goad, Thomas, D.D., a learned English divine, 
was elected to King’s College, Cambridge, in 1592. He 
became rector of Milton, Cambridgeshire, and after- 
wards, successively, prebendary of Winchester and 
Canterbury, precentor of St. Taul’s, rector of Notlcy, 
Essex, and of Hadlejq Suffolk. He died in 1G38. He 
was one of the deputies to the Synod of Dort in 1618, 
as a Calvinist, but he afterwards altered his opinions. 
His principal works are, A Disputation concerning the 
Contingency of Events in respect of God's eternal Decrees 
(to be found in the Cambridge Tracts and in Womack, 
Residt of False Principles). — Darling, Cycl. Bibliograph- 
ica , i, 1276. 

Goadby, Robert, a printer and publisher of Sher- 
borne, Dorsetshire, who died in 1778. He compiled 
and published a commentary under the title An Illus- 
tration of the Holy Scriptures by Notes and Explications 
on the 0. and N. T., etc. (Lond. 1759-70, Gth ed. 3 vols. 
fob). Dr. A. Clarke says of it that, “ while it seems 
to be orthodox, it is written entirely on the Arian hy- 
pothesis.” Sellon wrote a reply to it (London, 17G5, 
12mo). — Darling, Cyclop . Bibliog. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, 
of Authors, i, 680; Horne. Bibliographical Appendix. 

Goar, Jacques, a French Dominican monk, was 
born at Paris in 1G01. He entered into the order of 
Preaching Friars in 1619, and taught rhetoric in sev- 
eral houses of the Dominicans for some } T ears. He 
was then sent on a mission into the Levant, and lived 
eight years at Chios, where he made the doctrines and 
ceremonies of the Greek Church the subjects of his in- 
vestigation, and then came to Rome with many collec- 
tions of MSS., etc. In 1647 he published at Paris, in 
Greek and Latin, his EuyoXoytor, Euchologium sive 
Rituale Grer corum (Paris, 1647, folio; Venice, 1730). 
For the history of liturgies, this is a very valuable 
and useful work. Goar died at Amiens in 1653. See 
Eehard, Script. Ord. Prad. vol. ii ; Hoefer, Nonv. Bivg. 
Generate, xx, 860. 

Goar, St., a French anchorite, was born in Aqui- 
taine about the year 585. The legend says that, after 
being ordained priest, he devoted himself to the propa- 
gation of Christianity, and left his famil} 7, to retire to 
the neighborhood of Oberwesel (Germany), where he 
erected a small chapel (at the place since called St. 
(Goar), beside his cell, to receive pilgrims, and suc- 
ceeded in converting a large number of heathen. 
Some of his enemies, having accused him as “an im- 
postor and a man fond of good living” to Rustieus, bish- 
op of Treves, he cleared himself by performing several 
miracles. Sigebert III offered to appoint him bishop 
in the place of Rustieus, but Goar preferred remaining 
in his humble position. He died July 6, 6d9, and was 
buried in the chapel ho had erected by Agrippin and 
Eusebius, two of Sigebert’s priests. The Church of 
St. Goar, on the Rhine, was dedicated to him in 1768. 
See lloefer, Now. Eiog. Generate, xx, 859. (J. N. P.) 

Goat, an animal of the genus Capra, found in every 
part of the world, and easily domesticated. There are 
various names or appellations given to the goat in the 
original text of the Scriptures. See Cattle. 

1. Most frequently T2, ez, generally said to denote 
the she-goat (as it is rendered in Gen. xv, 9 ; xxx, 35 ; 
xxxi, 38; xxxii, 14; Numb, xv, 27), and in several 
passages undoubtedly so used (Gen. xxxi, 38; xxxii, 
14 ; Numb, xv, 27 ; Prov. xxvii, 27) ; but it is equally 
certain that it is used also to denote the he-goat (Exod. 
III.— Lll 


xii, 5 ; Lev. iv, 23 ; Numb, xxviii, 15 ; 2 Chron. xxix, 
21 ; Dan. viii, 5, 8, etc.), which the etymology would 
seem to show was the original sense. In most of the 
passages in which it occurs it may denote either the 
male or the female animal (Gen. xxvii, 16; xxx, 32, 
33; xxxvii, 31; Lev. i, 10; iii, 12 ; vii, 23; xxii, 19; 
1 Sam. xxv, 2; 1 Kings xx, 27). It is used also to 
designate a lid (as rendered in Gen. xxxviii, 17, 20; 
Numb, xv, 11; Judg. vi, 19; xiii, 15, 19; xv, 1; 1 
Sam. xvi, 20 [1 Kings xx, 27 ; 2 Chron. xxxv, 7]). 
From this we are led to conclude that properly it is 
the generic designation of the animal in its domestic 
state, a conclusion which seems to be fully established 
by such usages as t*72 a kid of the goats, Jib 
D^?2, a Jlock of 11 goats,” i. e. any of the goat species 
(Gen. xxvii, 9 ; Deut. xiv, 4). Bochart ( Ilieroz . bk. 
ii, c. 51) derives the -word 12 from IS’, oz , strength ; Ge- 
senius and Fiirst prefer tracing it up to VT2, azaz * , to 
become strong ; in either case the ground-idea is the su- 
perior strength of the goat as compared with the sheep ; 
Syr. ozo ; Arab, onaz (where the n represents the re- 
jected T of T“2) ; Phocn. oz, of which 02:2a or azza is 
the feminine form. Whether there is any affinity be- 
tween this and the Sansc. ctga, fern, aga , Gr. at£, aly- 
o£, Goth, gaitan, and our goat , may be doubted. In 
the Sept. 12 is usually represented by «i£, in a few in- 
stances by tpicpoQ ; and when E*^2 is used elliptically 
to denote goat's hair (as in Exod. xxvi, 7 ; xxxvi, 14 ; 
Numb, xxxi, 20), the Sept, renders okvtivqc, Tpi\tvog, 
or aiyetog-, in 1 Sam. xix, 13 it gives the strange ren- 
dering i]7zap Tiov alywv, reading *122 for 2*22 (comp. 
Joseph. Ant. vi, 11,4). See Bolster. 

2. The next most frequent term is 1^2, attud 
which is used only in the plur. C*l'n2. In the A.V. 
it is translated sometimes “rams” (Gen. xxxi, 10, 12), 
often “he-goats” (Numb, vii, 17-88; Psa. 1, 9; Isa. i, 
11; Jer. Ii, 40; Ezek. xxxiv, 17), but usually simply 
“goats” (Deut. xxii, 14; Psa. 1, 13; Ixvi, 15; Prov. 
xxvii, 26; Isa. xxxiv, 6; Ezek. xxvii, 21 ; xxxix, 18; 
Zeeh. x, 3). The singular occurs frequently in Arabic 
atml , and is defined in the Kamus as a young goat of a 
year old (Bochart, Ilieroz. bk. ii, eh. 53, p. 646, where 
other authorities are adduced). The name is derived 
from 2P2, athad ' , to set, place, prepare, and hence Bo- 
chart infers it describes the animal as fully grown, and 
so prepared for all its functions and uses ; Gesenius, a 
goat four months old ; while others think no more is 
implied by the name than that this animal was strong 
and vigorous. The attudim were used in sacrifice 
(Psa. Ixvi, 15), and formed an article of commerce 
(Ezek. xxvii, 21; Prov. xxvii, 2G). In Jer. 1, 8, the 
word is employed for the leaders of a flock (“chief 
ones”); and in Isa. xiv, 9, and Zeeh. x, 3, it is used 
metaphorically for princes or chiefs. See IIe-goat. 

3. *1*73, gedi' , is the young of the goat, a kid. The 

name is derived by Fiirst from the obsolete verb 
gadah' , to cast forth , so that it is equivalent to the Lat- 
in fatus, but was afterwards restricted to one kind, 
that of the goat. Gesenius traces it to i"l25, ffudah', 
to crop , and supposes the name was given to it from 
its cropping the herbage. Both etymologies arc pure- 
ly conjectural. The phrase ‘ 1 7?» °f 

goats . is frequently used. Sec above. The reason of 
this Kimchi finds in the generic sense of as appli- 
cable originally to the young either of the sheep or 
goat, so that it required the addition of D n T2!"l to spe- 
cialize its meaning, until it came by usage to denote 
only the latter. Ibn-Ezra thinks the addition was 
made because the gedi, being yet tender, could not he 
separated from its mother. The flesh of the kid was 
esteemed a delicacy by the Hebrews (Gen. xxvii, 9, 
14, 17 ; Judg. vi, 19 ; xiii, 15, etc.). — Kitto. See Kid. 


GOAT 


898 


GOAT 


4. “PI;””, said, signifies properly a he-goat, being de- 
rived from “C*b, to bristle , i. e. the shaggy (“he-goat,” 
only 2 Chron. xxix, 23; “goat,” in Lev. iv, 24; ix, 
15 ;* x, 36 ; xvi, 7-27 ; Numb, xxviii, 22 ; xxix, 22-38 ; 
Ezek. xliii, 2b ; “satyr,” in Isa. xiii, 21 ; xxxiv, 14; 
“devil,” in Lev. xvii, 7; elsewhere “kid”). It oc- 
curs frequently in Leviticus and Numbers (“P^'b 
rx^nn), and is the goat of the sin-offering (Lev. ix, 
3,15; x, 16). The word is used as an adjective with 

in Dan. viii, 21, “ —and the goat, the rough one, 
is the king of Javan,” and also in Gen. xxvii, 11,28, 
“a hairy man.” See Satyr. The fern. JTV sei- 
rali , a ske-goat, likewise occurs (“kid,” Lev. iv, 28; 
v, 6). See Sacrifice. 

5. -PS2, tsapkir', occurs in 2 Chron. xxix, 21, and 
in Dan. viii, 5, 8; it is followed by D^ril, and signi- 
fies a “ he-goat" of the goats. Gesenius derives it from 
“IB 3 , tsaphar ', to leap , indicative of the sex. It is a 
word found only in the later books of the 0. T. In 
Ezra vi,17,we find the Chald. form of the word, T'BSj 
tsephir'. 

G. b?n, ta'yish , a buck, is from a root b^Fl, to stnke . 
It is invariably rendered “he-goat” (Gen. xxx, 35; 
xxxii, 15; Prov. xxx, 31; 2 Chron. xvii, 11). 

7. In the N. T. the words rendered goat in Matt, 
xxv, 32, 33, are tpt<poQ and tp*0ioi'=a young goat or 
kid ; and in Ileb. ix, 12, 13,19, and x,4, rpctyoQ = hc- 
goat. Goat-skins , in 1 Ieb. xi, 37, are in the Greek aiytia 
edppara ; and in Judg. ii, 17, a’iytc is rendered goats. 

8. For the undomesticated species several Heb. terms 
are employed : (1 .) 7 IP, yaeV , only in the plur. C*?IP ? 
idl'd or mountain goats, rendered “wild goats” in 
the passages of Scripture in which the word occurs, 
viz. 1 Sam. xxiv, 2; Job xxxix, 1; and Psa. civ, 18. 



Long-eared Syrian Goat. 

common goat ( Hircus c rgagrus ) at present bred in Pal- 
estine and Syria, but whether they are identical with 
those which were reared by the ancient Hebrews it is 
not possible to say. The most marked varieties are 
the Syrian goat ( Capra Mambrica , Linn.), with long, 
thick, pendent ears, which are often, says Russell {Nat. 
Hist, of Aleppo, ii, 150, 2d edit.), a foot long, and the 
Angora goat {Capra Angorensis, Linn.), with fine long 
hair. The Syrian goat is mentioned by Aristotle {Ilist. 
An. ix, 27, § 3). There is also a variety that differs but 
little from British specimens. Goats have from the 
earliest ages been considered important animals in ru- 



The word is from a root >IP, to ascend or 
climb , and is the Ileb. name of the ibex, 
which abounds in the mountainous parts 
of the ancient territory of Moab. In Job 
xxxix, 1, the Sept, have rpayeXatycor tt£- 
rpai. In Prov. v, 19, the fern. 
yaalah', “roe” occurs. See Roe. 

TJ5X, akko f , rendered wild goat in Deut. 
xiv, 5, and occurs only in this passage. 

It is a contracted form of JTlpSX, accord- 
ing to Lee, who renders it gazelle, but it is 
probably larger, more nearly approaching 
the tragelaphns or goat-doer (Shaw, Sup- 
plement, p. 7G). — Smith, s. v. See Wild 
Goat. 

9. Other terms less directly significant 
of this animal are, (1.) EPbn, chasiph', a 
flock , i. e. little flock: “two little flocks 
of kids” (1 Kings xx, 27); and (2.) nb ? 
seh , one of the flock of sheep and goats 
mixed (Lev. xxii, 28, and frequently “goat” or “kid” 
in the margin). See Flock. 

*10. For the Vl^Tl*, Azazcl' (“ scape-goat,” Lev. xvi, 
8, 10, 2G), see Azazel. 

The races either known to or kept by the Hebrew 
people were probably, 1. The domestic Syrian long- 
eared breed, with horns rather small and variously 
bent; the ears longer than the head, and pendulous; 
hair long, often black. 2. The Angora, or rather An- 
adoli breed of Asia Minor, with long hair, more or less 
fine. 3. The Egyptian breed, with small spiral horns, 
long brown hair, very long ears. 4. A breed from Up- 
per Egypt, without horns, having the nasal bones sin- 
gularly elevated, the nose contracted, with the lower 
jaw protruding the incisors, and the female with udder 
very low, and purse-shaped.— Kitto. 

There appear to be two or three varieties of the 


ral economy, both on account of the milk they afford 
and the excellency of the flesh of the young animals. 
The goat is figured on the Egyptian monuments (see 
Wilkinson’s Ancient Egypt, i, 223). Col. Ham. Smith 
(Griffiths, An. King, iv, ,308) describes three Egyptian 
breeds : one with long hair, depressed horns, ears small 
and pendent ; another with horns very spiral, and ears 
longer than the head ; and a third, which occurs in 
Upper Egypt, without horns. — Smith. 

Besides the domestic goats, Western Asia is possess- 
ed of one or more wild species — all large and vigorous 
mountain animals, resembling the ibex or bouquetin 
of the Alps. Of these, Southern Syria, Arabia, Sinai, 
and the borders of the Red Sea contain at least one. spe- 
cies, known to the Arabs by the name of Beden or Bed- 
dan, and Taytal — the Capra Jcela of Ham. Smith, and 
Capra Sinaitica of Ehrenberg. We take this animal 


GOAT 


899 


GOAT 


to be that noticed under the name of yael or jaal 

(1 Sam. xxiv, 2 ; Job xxxix, 1 ; Psa. civ, 18 ; Prov. v, 
19). The male is considerably taller and more robust 
than the larger h e-goats, the horns forming regular 
curves backwards, and with from 15 to 24 transverse 
elevated cross-ridges, being sometimes near three feet 
long, and exceedingly ponderous : there is a beard un- 
der the chin, and the fur is dark brown ; but the limbs 
are white, with regular black marks down the front of 
the legs, with rings of the same color above the knees 
and on the pasterns. The females are smaller than 
the males, more slenderly made, brighter rufous, and 
with the white and black markings on the legs not so 
distinctly visible. This species live in troops of 15 or 
20, and plunge down precipices with the same fearless 
impetuosity that distinguishes the ibex. Their horns 
are sold by the Arabs for knife handles, etc. ; but the 
animals themselves are fast diminishing in number. 
See Ibex. 



In Dcut. xiv, 5, akko is translated “wild goat.” 
Sehultens (Origines Jlebraicce ) conjectures that the 
name arose from its shyness, and Dr. Harris points out 
what he takes to be a confirmation of this conjecture 
in Shaw’s travels, who, from the translations of the 
Sept, and Vulgate, makes it a goat-deer or tragela- 
phus, under a mistaken view of the classification and 
habitat of that animal. Akko, therefore, if it be not a 
second name of the zemcr, which we refer to the 
kebsh, or wild sheep [see Chamois], as the species 
must be sought among ruminants that were accessible 
for food to the Hebrew's, we should be inclined to view 
as the name of one of the gazelles, probably the ahu 
(Ant. Subgutturosd), unless the Abyssinian ibex (Copra 
Walie ) had formerly extended into Arabia, and it could 
be shown that it is a distinct species. — Kitto. See 
Wild Goat. 

From very remote antiquity goats have formed an im- 
portant part of pastoral wealth in the East. They are I 
not mentioned by name in the enumeration of Abram’s I 
possessions (Gen. xii, 1G), nor in those of Job (Job i, 3 ; , 
xlii, 12); but perhaps the)' are included under the ge- i 
neric term of “ilocks,” which Lot (Gen. xiii, 5), and, a 
fortiori . , Abram possessed ; and a she-goat formed part 
of the sacrifice offered by Abram on the occasion of the 
promise of Isaac (Gen. xv, 9). In the account of the 
miraculous increase of Jacob’s cattle (Gen. xxxi, 10, 
12) we find goats conspicuously mentioned. Their 
milk has always constituted an important article of 
food in Palestine (Kitto, Piet. Palestine , ii, 304). — Fair- 
bairn. Goats were extensively reared among the Is- 
raelites (Lev. iii, 12; ix, 15; Exod. xii, 5, etc.); their 
milk was used as food (Prov. xxvii, 27); their flesh 
was eaten (I)eut. xiv, 4; Gen. xxvii, 9); their hair 
was used for the curtains of the tabernacle (Exod. 
xxvi, 7 ; xxxvi, 14) and for stuffing bolsters (1 Sam. 
xix, 13); their skins were sometimes used as clothing 
(Heb. xi, 37). — Smith. Notwithstanding the offensive 
lasciviousness which causes it to be significantly sep- 


arated from sheep, the goat was employed by the peo- 
ple of Israel in many respects as their representative. 
It was a pure animal for sacrifice (Exod. xii, 5), and a 
kid might be substituted as equivalent to a lamb : it 
formed a principal part of the Hebrew' flocks, and both 
the milk and the young kids were daily articles of food. 
Among the poorer and more sober shepherd families, 
the slaughter of a kid v r as a token of hospitality to 
strangers, or of unusual festivity ; and the prohibition, 
thrice repeated in the Mosaic law, “ not to seethe a kid 
in its mother’s milk” (Exod. xxiii,19 ; xxxiv, 26; and 
Dent, xiv, 21), may have originated partly in a desire 
to recommend abstemiousness, which the legislators 
and moralists of the East have since invariably en- 
I forced with success, and partly with a view to discoun- 
tenance a practice which was connected with idola- 
trous festivals, and the rites they involved. It is from 
goatskins that the leathern hottles to contain wine and 
other liquids are made in the Levant. For this pur- 
pose, after the head and feet are cut away, the case or 
hide is drawn off the carcass over the neck, without 
opening the belly; and the extremities being secured, 
it is dried with the hair in or outside, according to the 
use it is intended for. The old worn-out skins are lia- 
ble to burst: hence the obvious propriety of putting 
new wine into new bottles (Matt, ix, 17). Harmer 
(Obs. iv, 1G2) appears to have rightly referred the al- 
lusion in Amos iii, 12 to the long-eared race of goats: 
“As the shepherd taketh out of the mouth of the lion 
two legs or a piece of ear, so shall the children of Is- 
rael be taken out that dwell in Samaria and Damas- 
cus.” — Kitto. The passage in Cant, iv, 1, which com- 
pares the hair of the beloved to “a flock of goats that 
eat of Mount Gilead,” probably alludes to the fine hair 
of the Angora breed. In Prov. xxx, 31, a he-goat L> 
mentioned as one of the “four things which are comely 
in going in allusion, probably, to the stately march 
of the leader of the flock, which was always associated 
in the minds of the Hebrews with the notion of digni- 
ty. Hence the metaphor in Isa. xiv, 9, “all the chief 
ones (margin, “great goats”) of the earth.” So the 
Alexandrine version of the Sept, understands the allu- 
sion Kcd rpciyoQ yyovpsvoQ ahroXtov (comp. Theocr. 
Id. viii, 49 ; Virgil, Eel. vii, 7). — Smith. Goats, from 
their offensiveness, mischievous and libidinous dispo- 
sition, etc., are symbols of the wicked, who are, at the 
day of judgment, to be finally separated from the good 
(Matt, xxv, £3). — Wemyss. See Sheep. 

From Lev. xvii, 7, it appears that the rebellious He- 
brew's, while in the desert, fell into the idolatrous wor- 
ship of the he-goat (rendered “rfms," comp. 2 Chron. 
xi,15), after the example of the Egyptians, under whose 
influences they had grown up. Herodotus says (i, 4G) 
that at Mendes, in Lower Egypt, both the male and 
female goat w r ere worshipped ; that the god Pan had 
the face and thighs of a goat; not that they believed 
him to be of this figure, but because it had been cus- 
tomary to represent him thus. They paid divine hon- 
ors, also, to real goats, as appears in the table of Isis. 
The Sairim (“wild beasts”) of Isa. xiii, 21 were, ac- 
cording to the popular notion, supposed to be wild 
men [see Ape] in the form of he-goats, living in un- 
frequented, solitary places, and represented as dancing 
and calling to each other. — Calmet. See Spectre. 

A he-goat w'as the symbol of the Macedonian em- 
pire in the prophetic vision of Daniel (chap, viii, 5) — a 



GOATII 


900 


GOCII 


goat tli at hail a notable horn between his eyes. It is 
interesting to know that this was the recognised sym- 
bol of their nation by the Macedonians themselves. 

There are coins of Areholaus, king of Maced on (13. C. 
413), having as their reverse a one-horned goat ; and 
there is a gem in the Florentine collection, on which 
are engraved two heads united at their occiputs, the 
one that of a ram, the other that of a one-horned goat. 
By this is expressed the union of the Persian and 



Perso-Maeedonian Gem. 


Gob (Ileb. id. -3 and 315, a pit; Sept. P 6(3 v. r. 
Tt3 and 'Po/i,Vulg. Gob), the scene of two of David’s 
encounters with the Philistines, in the former of which 
Sibbechai slew the giant Saph, and in the latter Elha- 
nan slew the brother of Goliath (2 Sam. xxi, 18, 19). 
In the parallel passage (1 Chron. xx, 4) it is called by 
its more usual name Gezer (see Schwarz, Paled, p. 
131); and this, as well as the omission of any locality 
for the second event, is supported by Josephus (Am/. 
vii, 12, 2). On the other hand, some copies of the 
Sept, and the Syriac have Gath in the first case, a 
name which in Ilebrew much resembles Gob; and this 
appears to be borne out by the account of a third and 
subsequent fight, which all agree happened at Gath (2 
Sam. xxi, 20; 1 Chron. xx, 0), and which, from the 
terms of the narrative, seems to have occurred at the 
same place as the others. The suggestion of Nob — 
which Davidson ( Uebr . Text.) reports as in many MSS., 
and which is also found in the Com pi. ed. of the Sept. 
— is not admissible, on account of the situation of that 
place. See David. 


Macedonian kingdoms, and Air. T. Combe, who gives 
us the information, thinks that “it is extremely prob- 
able that the gem was engraved after the conquest of 
Persia by Alexander the Great” (Taylor’s Calmet , ii, 
S3 sq.). See Macedonia. 

Goats’ IIair (lleb. goats simply; see above) was 
used bv Moses in making the curtains of the taber- 
nacle (Exod. xxv, 4), and, from what we now know of 
it, seems to have been particularly suitable. The hair 
of the goats of Asia, Phrygia, and Cilicia, especially 
of the Angora breed, which is at the present day man- 
ufactured into stuffs, is very bright and fine, and hangs 
to the ground ; in beauty it almost equals silk, and is 
never sheared, but combed off. The shepherds care- 
fully and frequently wash these goats in rivers, and 
the women of the country spin the hair; it is then 
worked and dyed. The natives attribute the quality 
of the hair to the soil of the country. (See a treatise 
on the Pastoral Life and Manufactures of the Ancients, 
N. Y. 1815, chap, iv.) “The Cashmere breed has long 
been celebrated as the source from which are obtained 
those elegant Indian shawls which fetch so high a 
price in Europe. It is carried on men’s backs over 
the ridges of the Himalayas, across frightful preci- 
pices, along narrow ledges over sharp, snow-covered 
peaks climbed b} 7 wooden ladders, across rattling cane- 
bridges over foaming torrents, until it arrives,- loaded 
wdtli extortionate taxes, at Cashmere, where the shawls 
arc Avoven. Thence they are sent by mountain roads 
similarly beset with dangers and difficulties, and sub- 
ject at every step to extortionate tribute, into Europe, 
either through Turkey, or over the Caucasus through 
Russia” (Fairbairn). See Tent. 

GOAT, SCAPE. See Scape-goat. 

GOAT, WI LI). See Wild Goat. 

Go'ath (or, rather, Goah', ftra, a lowing; the 
final H being local in Hr 2a, “to Goath,” Sept. T£ 
tK\fHTujv \tbujv ; Vulg. Goatha ), a place in the vicinity 
of Jerusalem, mentioned only in Jer. xxxi, 39 as lying 
beyond “the hill Gareb,” in the compass of the city 
from between the corner-tower (on the north-west) 
and the valley of Tophet (on the south); hence, per- 
haps, some eminence on the western bank of the Ami- 
ley of Gihon. See Jerusalem. In accordance Avith 
the etymology is the rendering of the Targum, which 
has for Goah J"C*HS=thc heifer's pool. The 

Syriac, on the other hand, has leromto, “to the emi- 
nence,” perhaps reading (Fiirst, Hamhcb. p. 2f>95). 

Barclay (City of Great King , p. 118) essentially agrees 
with the aho\-e location, although he seeks to idcntifA r 
the name Avith Golgotha (p. 78), which is forbidden by 
the presence of the V in Goah, and othdr philological 
considerations. See Golgotha. 


Gob. See Locust. 

Gobel, Jean Baptiste Joseph, a Roman Cath- 
olic bishop of France, Avas born in 1727 at Thanu, in Up- 
per Alsace. He Avas educated in the Collegium Ger- 
manieum in Rome, became canon at Porentruy, SAvitz- 
erland, and in 1772 bishop in part, of Lydda, and coad- 
jutor of the bishop of Basle. In 1789 he Avent as a 
delegate of the clergy to the Etats Generaux , allied 
himself Avith the Jacobins, became constitutional bishop 
I of Paris, Upper Marne and Upper Rhine, A r otcd on No- 
I vember 7, 1793, for the abolition of Christianity, and 
laid clown his ecclesiastical dignities in the hands of 
the ConA r ention. Havingfallen into disfavor Avith Robe- 
spierre, he was executed April 13, 1794. (A. J. S.) 

Goblet aggan, prop, a trough for washing 
garments, hence a laver ; Cant, vii, 2, Avhere it is de- 
i scribed as being round; elsewhere a sacrificial “ba- 
sin,” Exod. xxiv, G, or pensile drinking- 41 cup,” Isa. 
xxii, 24). In form and material these utensils w’ere 
i probably like those found in the Egyptian ruins, some 
being of gold or silver, others of bronze, porcelain, and 
even wood. SeeBoAVL; Basin, etc. 



Gobolltis. See Gedal. 

Gocll, John of, more properly John P upper, avas 
born in the little city of Goch in the beginning of the 
loth century. Dissatisfied Avith the Church of Rome, 
he, like some others at that time, wished for a refor- 
mation, and insisted on the free use of the Scriptures. 
There is no accurate history of his life ; all that is 
known is that he established an order of canoncsscs at 
Mechlin in 1451, attempted to introduce reform in the 
convents of that place, and for twenty-four years acted 
as father confessor of the deaconesses at Thabo r. He 
died March 28, 1475. He was a man of great piety, 
and, though less vigorous than his friend Wesscl, he 
A\ r as a better theologian than Thomas a Kcmpis. His 
principal Avorks are, De libertate Christiana, edited by 
Corn. Grapheus.(Antw. 1521), and Dialogus de quutuor 
erroribus circa legem evangelicam exortis , in WalclTs 
Monumenta medii aeri. The writings of Goch contain 
many reformatory ideas. He demanded that the Bi- 


GOD 


901 


GOD 


ble should chiefly be explained by itself, and laid great 
stress on love, on living piety, and especially on evan- 
gelical freedom. As an obstacle to the latter, he re- 
garded the episcopal dignity, with its hierarchical ele- 
vation, above the priestly, which, in his opinion, was 
the highest in the Church. An excellent sketch of 
Goek, and of his relations to theology and Church re- 
form, is given by Ullniann, Reformers before the Ref- 
ormation^ i, 17-157 ; Herzog, Real-Encyhlop. v, 220 sq. 

God, from the same Saxon root as yood, thus beau- 
tifully expressing the divine benignity as the leading 
attribute of the most general term for the Deity, and 
corresponding almost invariably to two Hebrew words, 
both from a common root (blX, ul, to be strong). Ileng- 
stenberg, however, regards the simpler of these words 
(bx, El) as a primitive (. Auth . of Pent, i, 251), while 
some consider the extended form (H'bx, Elo'dli) as de- 
rived from a different root (the obsolete PI found in 
Arabic — to worship ). The corresponding Shemitic 
terms are: Arabic, Al or Allah (q. v.); Svriae, Jlo or 
Eloho; Samar. El or Chilah {—powerful; Castell, in 
Walton’s Polyglot Bible, vi, s. v.); Phoenician El (?/A 
or i/\), as in En-el ("EruAoc, Gag-el (Gagilus, 

£30.1), ' EXottp (Sanchon.). See Almighty. 

The only other Hebrew word generally employed 
in naming the Supreme Being is Jehovah , nifP, which, 
some (so Ilaverniek, Historische-critische Einleitung ins 
alte Testament , Berlin, 1839) propose to point ilIPP 
Jahveh , meaning “the Existing One,” holding that 
Elohim is used merely to indicate the abundance 
and super-riehness contained in the Divine Being. 
With such, therefore, Jehovah is not of the same origin 
as the heathen Jove , but of a strictly peculiar and He- 
brew origin. Both names are used by Moses diserim- 
inately, in strict conformity with the theological idea 
he wished to express in the immediate eontext ; and, 
pursuing the Pentateuch nearly line by line, it is as- 
tonishing to see that Moses never uses any of the 
names at mere random or arbitrarily, but is through- 
out consistent in the application of the respective terms. 
Elohim is the abstract expression for absolute Deity 
apart from the special notions of unity, holiness, sub- 
stance, etc. It is more a philosophical than devotional 
term, and corresponds with our term Deity , in the same 
way as state or government is abstractly expressive of 
a king or monarch. Jehovah , however, seems to be 
the revealed Elohim, the Manifest, Only, Personal, 
and Holy Elohim : Elohim is the Creator, Jehovah the 
Redeemer, etc. See Jehovah. 

The translators of the Eng. A. V. have invariably 
translated this last Hebrew word by “Lord,” which is 
printed in those passages in small capitals in our com- 
mon Bibles, but whenever the two words which they 
thus render oecur together, A donai- Jehovah, the latter 
is rendered “God,” in order to prevent the repetition 
of “ Lord.” The Greek has -Srog (either with or with- 
out the art.). Jerome and the Rabbins enumerate ten 
Heb. words as meaning God; but they relate rather to 
his attributes. See Lord. 

I. Usage of the Hebrew terms properly rendered 
“God.” 

1. El. This term is used in the most general 
way as a designation of Deit} r , whether of the true 
God or of the false gods, even the idols, of the heathen. 
In the latter reference it oecurs Isa. xliv, 10, 15 ; xlv, 
20; xlvi, 0; and in the plur. Elim', Exod. xv, 

11; Dan. xi, 3G; though in both these last instances 
it may be questioned whether the word is not used in 
the sense of mighty ones . To render the application 
of the term in this reference more specific, such epi- 
thets as intt, other, foreign (Exod. xxxiv, 14), *11 
strange, hostile (Psa. lxxxi, 10), *113, strange (Dent, 
xxxii, 12), are used. When used of the true God, is 


usually preceded by the article (^>XSn, Gen. xxxi, 13; 
Deut. vii, 9), or followed by such distinctive epithets as 
“‘TJ, Almighty (Exod. vi, 3); cVl!?, eternal (Gen. xxi, 
33; Isa. xl, 28); ‘jY^, Supreme (Gen. xiv, 18); ‘'H, 
living (Josh, iii, 10) ; *Q5, mighty (Isa. ix, 5) ; or such 
qualifying adjuncts as YDS, of glory (Psa. xxix, 3) ; 
rV2X, of truth (Psa. xxxi, G) ; HlPpa, of retributions 
(JerV li, 5G) ; of Bethel (Gen. xxxi, 13). 

bxyw?, of Israel (Gen. xxxiii, 20); (Deut. 

xxxiii, 2G). In poetry £3* sometimes oecurs as a sign 
of the superlative ; as jH, hills of God, very high 

hills (Psa. xxxvi, 7) ; cedars of God (Ixxx, 

11). The phrase occurs Psa. xxix, 1 ; 

lxxxix, 7 ; and is supposed by some to refer to angels; 
but others take here for and translate 

Sons of the mighty (see Rosenmtiller, ad loe.). There 
is no instance of in the singular being used in the 
sense of mighty one or hero; for even if we retain that 
reading in Ezek. xxxi, 11 (though thirty of Kenni- 
cott’s codices have the reading and the probabil- 
ity is that in those which present the 1,1 is im- 
plied), the rendering “ God of the nations” may be ac- 
cepted as conveying a strong but just description of 
the power of Nebuchadnezzar, and the submission ren- 
dered to him ; compare 2 Cor. iv, 4. In proper names 
bx is often found sometimes in the first member of the 
compound word, e. g. rp£x, Elijah; ^PTPX, Eldad, 
etc., and sometimes as the last member, e. g. 

Samuel; PXV-P, Lemuel; bxUw, Tabcel, etc. See 
El. 

2. PT.bx, Elo'lih, plur. d^SY^X, Elohim' . The sin- 
gular form oecurs only in poetry, especially in Job, 
and in the later books, such as Daniel, Nehemiah, and 
Chronicles. It is used as well of idol deities as of the 
true God (Dan. xi, 37, 38; Ilabak. i, 11 ; Deut. xxxii, 
15 ; Psa. 1, 22 ; Habak. iii, 3, etc.) ; once in the former 
ease with the addition of (Dan. xi, 39), and in the 
latter with that of d’piP (Psa. cxiv, 7). The more 
common usage is that of the plural. This pervades 
all the books of the Old Test., from the earliest to the 
latest. Thus it is used principally of the true God, 
and in this case frequently with the article prefixed 
(Gen. v, 22 ; vi, 9, 11 ; xvii, 18), as w ell as with such 
adjuncts as (Neh. i, 4), or with the addition of 

(Gen. xxiv, 3); "jdX (Isa. lxv, 1G); p~ll 
(Psa. iv, 2); dixadil (Amos iii, 13), etc. When the 
relation of Israel to God is to be indicated, the phrases 
God of Israel, Jacob, Abraham are used (Ezek. v, 1; 
Psa. xx, 2; xlvii, 10, etc.); and in this ease, as the 
term Elohim is equivalent in effect to Jehovah, it is 
often used interchangeably with that term ; thus Mo- 
ses, vdio is designated !Y i rp Ebed-Jeliovah (Deut. 
xxxiv, 5), is called in the same sense d“Pi‘?X V, Ebed - 
Elohim (Dan. ix, 11); and the same object is designa- 
ted indifferently !Y'.i"P n*p, Ruach- Jehovah, and *1 
Cprybx, Ruacli-Elohim (comp. Judg. iii, 10, and Exod. 
xxxi, 3, etc.). Not unfrequently the two terms are 
combined (Lev. xviii, 2, 4, etc.; xix, 2, etc.; 2 Sam. 
v, 10; 1 Kings i, SG ; xiv, 13; Psa. xviii, 29, ete.). 
Most commonly, how r evcr, they are used distinctively, 
with respect, probably, to the difference between their 
primary meanings (see llengstenberg, Auth. d. Pent. 
i, 181 sq.). In the Pentateuch this discriminative 
usage has given ground for certain hypotheses as to 
the composition of that work. See Pextateucii. In 
the earlier historical books, Jehovah is more frequent- 
ly used than Elohim ; in Job, Jehovah is more fre- 
quently used in the poetieal, Eloah or Elohim in the 
prosaic portions; in the Psalms, sometimes the one, 


GOD 


902 


GOD 


sometimes the other predominates, and this has been 
thought to afford some criterion by which to judge of 
the age of the psalm, the older psalms being those in 
which Elohim is used; in Proverbs ive have chiefly 
Jehovah; in Ecclesiastes, Daniel, and Jonah, almost 
exclusively Elohim, and in the other prophets chiefly 
Jehovah. Elohim is also used of idol deities or false 
gods, because these are worshipped as if they were 
God (Exod. xix, 20; xxxii, 31; Josh, xxiv, 20; Jer. 
ii, 11 ; Jonah i, 5, etc.); and, like El, it is used as a 
superlative (Psa. lxviii, 16 ; lxv, 10, etc.). Kings and 
judges, as the vicegerents of Deity, or as possessing a 
sort of representative majesty, are sometimes called 
Elohim (Psa. Ixxxii, 1, 6; Exod. xxi, G; xxii, 8). 
'Whether the term is used of angels may be made mat- 
ter of question. This is the rendering given to 
l>v the Sept., Vulg., Targ., Syr., etc., in Gen. iii, 5; 
Psa. viii, 6; Ixxxii, 1, 6; xcvii, 7; and cxxxviii, 1; 
but in the majority of these instances there can be lit- 
tle doubt that the translators were swayed by mere 
dogmatical considerations in adopting that rendering; 
they preferred it because they avoided thus the strong- 
ly anthropomorphic representation which a literal ren- 
dering would have preserved. In all these passages 
the proper signification of EVIPX may be retained, 
and in some of them, snch as Gen. iii, 5; Psa. Ixxxii, 
1, G, this seems imperatively required. In Psa. viii, 
G also the rendering “angels” seems excluded by the 
consideration that the subject of the writer is the grace 
of God to man in giving him dominion over the works 
of his hands , in whieh respect there can he no compari- 
son between man and the angels, of whom nothing of 
this sort is affirmed. In Psa. xevii, 7, the connection 
of the last clause with what precedes affords sufficient 
reason for our giving Elohim its proper rendering, as 
in the A.V. That the author of the epistle to the 
Hebrews should have adopted the Sept, rendering in 
citing these two passages (ii, 7 ; i, G), cannot be held 
as establishing that rendering, for, as his argument is 
not affected hv it, he was under no call to depart from 
the rendering given in the version from which he 
quotes. Put, though there be no clear evidence that 
Elohim is ever used in the sense of angels, it is some- 
times used vaguely to describe unseen powers or su- 
perhuman beings that are not properly thought of as 
divine. Thus the witch of Endor saw “Elohim as- 
cending out of the earth” (1 Sam.xxviii, 13), meaning 
thereby some beings of an unearthly, superhuman 
character. So also in Zecli. xii, 8 it is said, “ The 
house of David shall be as Elohim, as the angel of the 
Lord,” wdicre, as the transition from Elohim to the 
angel of the Lord is a minori ad majus , we must re- 
gard the former as a vague designation of supernatural 
powers. Ilengstenberg would explain Psa. viii, 6 in 
accordance with this; but the legitimacy of this may 
be doubted. — Kitto, s. v. Sec Eloiiim. 

On the use or absence of the article with 
see Quarry ( Genesis, p. 270 sq.), who, after an elabo- 
rate examination of the subject, sums up the results 
as the following: “The dispelling of the supposition 
that any essential difference existed, at least in the 
earlier books, between Elohim with and without the 
article — any difference at all, but snch as the exigen- 
cies of each occasion with respect to sense or grammar 
would have made in the case of any common appella- 
tive ; the illustration of the use of the article with par- 
ticles and prepositions, elucidating many passages of 
Scripture, and explaining many seeming causes of 
perplexity ; and the establishment of an important 
characteristic difference as regards the usage in the 
case of Elohim with or without the article, between 
the earlier and later books of the sacred canon.” See 
Aiitum.e (ix Grammar). 

1 1. The attributes ascribedAo God bv Closes are sys- 
tematically enumerated in Exod. xxxiv, G, 7, though 
we find in isolated passages in the Pentateuch and 


elsewhere additional properties specified, which hear 
more directly upon the dogmas and principles of re- 
ligion, such as, e. g. that lie is not the author of sin 
(Gen. i, 31), although since the fall man is prone to 
sin (Gen. vi, 5; viii, 21, etc.). But, as it was the 
avowed design of Moses to teach the Jews the unity 
of God in opposition to the polytheism of the other na- 
tions with whom they were to come in contact, be 
dwelt particularly and most prominently on that point, 
which he hardly ever omitted when he had an oppor- 
tunity of bringing forward the attributes of God (Dent, 
vi, 4; x, 17 ; iv, 39; ix, 1G, etc.; Numb, xvi, 22; 
xxxiii, 19, etc. ; Exod. xv, 11 ; xxxiv, G, 7, etc.). 

In the prophets and other sacred writers of the Old 
Testament these attributes are still more fully devel- 
oped ami explained by the declarations that God Is 
the first and the last (Isa. xliv, G); that he changes 
not (Hah. iii, G); that the earth and heaven shall per- 
ish, but he shall endure (Psa. cii, 2G) — a distinct allu- 
sion to the last doomsday — and that he is omnipresent 
(Prov. xv, 3 ; Job xxxiv, 22, etc.). 

In the New Testament also we find the attributes 
of God systematically classified (Rev. v, 12, and vii, 
12), while the peculiar tenets of Christianity embrace, 
if not a further, still a more developed idea, as pre- 
sented by the apostles and the primitive teachers of 
the Church (compare Semisch’s Justin Martyr, ii, 151 
sq., translated by J. E. Eylaiul, 1843). 

The expression “to see God” (dob xix, 2G; xlii, 5; 
Isa. xxxviii, 11) sometimes signifies merely to expe- 
rience his help; but in the Old-Testament Scriptures 
it more usually denotes the approach of death (Gen. 
xxxii, 30; Judg. vi, 23; xiii, 22; Isa. vi, 5). See 
Death. 

The term “son of God,” applies to kings 

(Psa. ii, 7 ; Ixxxii, G, 27). The usual notion of the 
ancients that the royal dignity was derived from God 
may here be traced to its source: hence the Homeric 
cioykvijc' fiamXii'Q. This notion, entertained by the 
Oriental nations with regard to kings, made the latter 
style themselves gods (Psa. Ixxxii, 6). 

“sons of God,” in the plural, implies inferior gods, 
angels (Gen. vi, 2; Job i, G) ; as also faithful adhe- 
rents, worshippers of God (Deut. xiv, 1; Psa. lxxiii, 
15; Prov. xiv, 26). C"n‘“X “man of God,” is 
sometimes applied to an angel (Judg. xiii, 6, 8), as 
also to a prophet (1 Sam. ii, 27 ; ix, G ; 1 Kings xiii, 1). 

When, in the Middle Ages, scholastic theology be- 
gan to speculate on the divine attributes as the basis 
of systematic and dogmatic Christianity, the Jews, it 
appears, did not wish to remain behind on that head, 
and, collecting a few passages from the Old Testament, 
and more especially from Isa. xi, 2, and 1 Chron. xxix, 
11, where the divine attributes are more amply devel- 
oped and enumerated, they strung them together in a 
sort of cabbalistic tree, but in reality representing a 
human figure.— Kitto, s. v. See Cabbala. 

III. The Scriptures contain frequent notices of false 
gods as objects of idolatrous worship : 1 . By the Hebrews. 
These were of two kinds : a. Adoration of other beings 
than Jehovah, held as divine (Elirlen, De diis ct deab. 
Genfil. in S. S. memoratis , Argent. 1750; Letisden, T)e 
idolis E. T. in his Philolog. Hebr. mixt. p. 293 sq. ; Kal- 
kar, Udsigt over den idolatr. Cultus som omtales i biheln, 
Odense, 1838 sq.). Such false deities (which are gen- 
erally identified with their images, Dent, iv, 28 sq. ; 
Psa. cxv, 4 sq. ; cxxxv, 15 sq. ; 2 Macc. ii, 2; comp, 
also idols , in passages like 1 Sam. xxxi, 9; 

Hos. iv, 17) are called nothitigs (perhaps a 

play upon in the Jewish Church phraseology 

(Lev. xix, 4 ; xxvi, 1 ; comp. Hab. ii. 18), or 
breaths, i. e. vanities (Jer. ii, 5; viii, 19; xiv, 22), 
•’PS!!, utter vanities (Jon. ii, 9; comp, rd gdraia. 
Acts xiv, 15), abominations (1 Kings xi, 5; 


GOD 


903 


GOD 


2 Kings xxiii, 13); derisively logs (Ezek. vi, 

4; xiv, 8); their sacred rites *j ^frivolity (1 Sam. xv, 
23; Isa. lxvi, 3), and tiieir ’whole -worship harlotry 
(Ezek. xxiii; compare PGT, and derivatives, in Winer, 
Simonis Lex. p. 28G sq.), in contrast with which Jeho- 
vah is called the true God (E*^n Jer. x, 10 

sq. ; Dan. vi, 20, 2G [compare E^r'E, Psa. cxvi, 28] ; 
Acts xiv, 15; 2 Cor. vi, 1G), the God of Heaven (Judith 
v, 7 ; compare Jer. x, 11, etc.). Indeed idolatry was 
reprobated as a capital offence in the Mosaic law, under 
penalty of extirpation and destruction in the case of 
the whole people (Lev. xix, 4; Deut. vi, 15; viii, 19; 
xi, 1G sq. ; xxviii, 15 sq. ; xxx, 17 sq. ; xxxi, 1G sq. ; 
comp. Josh, xxiii, 1G; 1 Kings ix, G sq.), and stoning 
for individuals (Exod. xxii, 20 ; Dent, xvii, 2 sq. ; 
comp, vi, 14 sq. ; vii, 1G; viii, 19; xiii, 2 sq. ; Exod. 
xx, 3, 23) ; and the Israelites were admonished in their 
campaigns utterly to demolish idolatrous images (Exod. 
xxiii, 24 ; xxxiv, 13 ; Deut. vii, 5, 25 ; xii, 2 sq. ; comp. 
1 Chron. xiv, 12; 1 Macc. x, 84), and not to tolerate 
any heathen whatever in their land (Exod. xxiii, 33; 
Deut. xx, 17), and, furthermore, to slum all connection 
(even civil and political) with idolatrous nations (Exod. 
xxiii, 32 ; xxxiv, 15 sq. ; Deut. vii, 1 sq.). Even in- 
stigation to idolatry was liable to punishment by death 
(Deut. xiii, G sq.). In spite, however, of these severe 
statutes, we find the Israelites, not only during the 
passage through the wilderness and the unsettled pe- 
riod of their polity (Numb, xxv, 2; Deut. xiii, 13; 
Josh, xxiv, 23 ; comp. Amos v, 25 sq.), but also under 
the monarchy, sadly departing from the worship of 
Jehovah, and addicting themselves to the adoration 
of Phoenico-Philistine-Syriaii and Arabico-Sabrcan (in 
the time of the Maccabees also to Graeco-Syrian) dei- 
ties (see Gramberg, Religlcr,*ideen , i, 43G), such as Ba- 
al, Ashtaroth, Moloch, Chemosh, Thammuz, etc., and 
connecting therewith soothsaying and sorcery (Deut. 
xviii, 10 sq. ; comp. Dale, I)e divinationib. idolol. V. T. 
in his work De origine et progr. idolol. p. 3G3 sq.). See 
each of these names in its place. 

The service rendered to foreign deities was very 
multiform (Mishna, /Sanhedrim, vii, G), but consisted 
principally of vows (Hos. ix, 10), incense (1 Kings xi 
8; 2 Kings xxii, 17; xxiii, 5; Jer. i, 1G; vii, 9; xi, 
12; xiii, 15; xxxii, 29), bloodless (Jer. vii, 18) and 
bloody offerings (2 Kings v, 17), including even hu- 
man beings. See Moloch. The incense and offer- 
ings were presented on high places and hills (Isa. 1 vii, 
7 ; Jer. ii, 20; iii, G; xiii, 27 ; Hos. iv, 13; 1 Kings xi, 
7 ; 2 Kings xxiii, 5 ; comp. Philostr. A poll, ii, 4 ; Span- 
heim, ad Callim . Del . 70 ; see High Place\ on roofs 
(Jer. xix. 13; xxxii, 29; Isa. Ixv, 3), under shad}’ 
trees (1 Kings xiv, 23; 2 Kings xvi, 4 ; xvii, 10; II or. 
iv. 13 ; isa. i, 29 ; Jer. ii, 20 ; iii, 13 ; xvii, 2 ; 2 Chron. 
xxviii, 4; Ezek. vi, 13; xx, 28; see Movers, Phonic. 
p. 577 sq.), also in valleys (Jer. ii, 23; 2 Chron. xxviii. 
3) and gardens (Isa. i, 29; lxv, 3). See Grove. The 
votaries of man}’ of these deities made an offering of 
their own chastity to them, and illicit commingling of 
the sexes was a chief element of such eultus. See 
Baal ; Astarte. Sitting upon graves formed also a 
part of idolatry, either as a propitiation to the manes 
or in necromancy (Isa. lxv, 4). Lustration even was 
not wanting (Isa. lxvi, 17). The priestly castes of 
these idolatrous systems were numerous (1 Kings xviii, 
22; 2 Kings x, 21) and in good station (Hos. x, 5). 
One kind of them was called Kemarim (CHGG, Zeph. 
i, 4 ; 2 Kings xxiii, 5; a Syriac word, Gesen. Thes. p. 
693; Mishna, Megll . iv, 9). Sec Idolatry. 

b. The worship of Jehovah, under tlie form of any 
image whatever, was strictly forbidden (Exod. xx, 4; 
Dent. iv. 1G ; v, 8 ; xxvii, 15 ; comp. Tacit. Hist, v, 5). 
Such symbols as the Golden Calf (q. v.) were borrow- 
ed from Egypt (Josh, xxiv, 14 ; Ezek. xx, 7 sq.). See 
Ewald, Isr. Gesch, ii, 109 sq. ; Gerritsen, Cur Hebreci 


ante exit. Babyl. se ad idolorum et plurium deor. cultum 
veddepronos ostenderint , in the Annal. Acad. Rheno-Tra- 
ject. 1822-3, p. 120 sq. ; Miehaelis, Mas. Recht , v, 98 
sq. ; Otho, Lex. Rabb. p. 28G sq. See Image. 

2. Idolatry of non-Israelitish Nations . — See each in 
its place. This was frequently portrayed by the proph- 
ets in all its grossness (1 Kings xviii, 27 ; comp. Dev- 
ling’s Observe, i, 13G sq.), especially by exhibitions of 
the (mechanical) construction of these gods (images, 
Isa. ii, 8, 20; xliv, 10 sq. ; Jer. x, 3 sq. ; Hos. xiii, 2; 
Psa. cxv, 4; Baruch vi, 3 sq. ; Wisd. xiii, 11 sq. ; xv, 
7 sq. ; compare Philo, ii, 472 ; Horace, Sat. i, 81 sq. ; 
Arnob. iii, 12 ; vi, 13 sq. ; Augustine, Civ. Dei, vi, 10), 
and their powerlessness (Isa. xli, 29 ; xiii, 17 ; xlvi, 1, 
2; Jer. ii, 28; compare Deut. iv, 28 ; xxviii, 3G ; Psa. 
cxv, 5 sq. ; Hab. ii, 18). The images of the gods 
(PIGGG) were sometimes cast (metallic, Jiulg. xvii, 
4; Isa. ii, 20; xl, 19; Hos. xiii, 2), qCD, PllGG ; 
sometimes carved (of wood, Isa. xliv, 13; Jer. x, 3; 
comp. Pliny, xii, 2; xiii, 17 ; Pausan. ii, 19, 3), 
b“GG [see Diana], or even moulded of clay (Wisd. 
xv, 8; Plinv distinguishes u lignea et fictilia simula- 
cra,” xxxiv, 1G). They were fastened with chains, so 
as not to fall down or be carried away (Isa. xli, 7 ; 
Jer. x, 4 ; comp. Pausan. iii, 15, 5 ; viii, 41, 4 ; Arnob. 
vi, 13), and were usually overlaid with gold or silver, 
and were, besides, richly decked with apparel (Isa. ii, 
20; xxx, 22; xxxi, 7 ; xl, 19; Jer. x, 4 ; Hos. viii, 4; 
Baruch xii, 1G; compare Dougtaei Analect. ii, 179 sq. ; 
Biihr, Symbol, i, 277 sq.). They were also painted 
with red (vermilion) color (Wisd. xiii, 14; compare 
Pliny, xxxiii, 7, 3G ; xxxv, 12, 45 ; Virgil, Eclog. vi, 
22 ; x, 2G sq. ; Plutarch, Qiuest. Rom. 98 ; Arnob. vi, 
10; Bahr, Symbol, i, 334). They were taken by ar- 
mies with them into battle (2 Sam. v, 21 ; comp. Cur- 
tius, viii, 14, 11 ; Poly am. vii, 4). Victors were accus- 
tomed to carry them about in triumph, in order to 
despoil the subject nations of their divinities (Isa. x, 
10 ; xxxvi, 19 ; xxxvii, 12), or to bind them to greater 
fidelity (Isa. xlvi, 1 sq. ; Jer. xlviii, 7 ; xlix, 3 ; Hos. 
x, 5 ; Dan. xi, 8 ; compare Pausan. viii, 4G, 1 ; see Bo- 
chart, Ilieroz. i, 372; With of, Ojmsc. p. 143 sq.). The 
weapons of slain enemies were hung as trophies in the 
temples of the gods (1 Sam. xxxi, 10; Pausan. i, 13, 
3; Nenoph. Anab. v, 3, 4; Euseb. Chron. Arm. i, G7). 
Soothsaying and sorcery ever stand in connection with 
this eultus (Isa. xix, 3). — Winer, i, 433. See also 
Mark in the Flesh. 

IV. The Christian Doctrine of God. — 1. Source. — 
The Christian idea of God is derived from the Scrip- 
tures. The statement God is God suffices for the 
wants of theology in itself, and is given as a com- 
plete proposition in the Scriptures (Exod. iii, 14 ; Isa. 
xliii, 12). But the Scriptures afford many indica- 
tions, not merely as to the character of God, but also 
as to his nature. The substance of these teachings 
may be summed up in the statements, God is a Spirit, 
God is Love, God is Lord. These statements include 
the idea of an immaterial, intelligent, and free personal 
Being, of perfect goodness, wisdom, and power, who 
made the universe and continues to support it, as well 
as to govern and direct it, by his providence. Dr. 
Adam Clarke gives the following general statement 
of the doctrine of the Great First Cause : u The eter- 
nal, independent, and self-existent Being; the Being 
whose purposes and actions spring from himself, with- 
out foreign motive or influence ; he who is absolute in 
dominion ; the most pure, the most simple, the most 
spiritual of all essences; infinitely benevolent, benefi- 
eent, true, and holy ; the cause of all being, the up- 
holder of all things ; infinitely happy, because infinite- 
ly perfect; and eternally self-sufficient, needing noth- 
ing that he has made ; illimitable in his immensity, in- 
conceivable in Ills mode of existence, and indescribable 
in his essence; known fully only to himself, because 
an infinite mind can only be fully comprehended by 


GOD 


904 


GOD 


itself. In a word, a Being wlio, from his infinite wis- 
dom, can not err or be deceived, and, from his infinite 
goodness, can do nothing but wluit is eternally just, and 
right, and kind.” The Christian doctrine of God, in its 
development, involves the idea of the Trinity : God the 
Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. See 
Trinity. 

2. Connotation of the term God. — The word Geoc, 
God , taken to signify “an object of religious venera- 
tion,” was formerly applied to the pretended deities 
of the heathen, and accordingly Osdc and Dens were 
employed by the promulgators of the Gospel when 
calling on the heathen to transfer their worship from 
their idols to Jehovah. But the word “God” has 
come to signify in Christian use the Maker and Ruler 
of the world, and is absolutely and exclusively applied 
to him. There is “oue God” in the Christian sense, 
and there can be but one. “ It is not meant merely that 
we believe this as a fact , but that it is moreover im- 
plied in the very meaning we attach to the word. And 
this is a distinction which should always be carefully 
attended to. The word 4 Mohammedan’ means nothing 
more or less than a believer in Mohammed, though the 
Christian regards Mohammed as having been in fact an 
impostor, and the Mohammedans regard him as a true 
prophet; but neither of these is implied (or connoted) 
by the word 4 Mohammedan’ when used by a Christian. 
On the contrary, the word 4 God’ does imply what has 
been above stated, as is evident from this : that any 
one who should deny that there exists any such being 
as a Maker and Governor of the world, would be con- 
sidered by Christians not only as in error, but as an 
Atheist— as holding that there is no God (while whoev- 
er should affirm the existence of more than one God 
would be held to be an idolater) ; and this not the less 
though he should admit the existence of some being 
superior to man, such as the fairies, demons, nixes, etc., 
which are still feared by the vulgar in almost all parts 
of Christendom ; the genii of the Eastern nations, and 
the gods and goddesses of the ancient heathens, which 
w T ere all of this description. None of them was ac- 
counted the ‘Creator,’ and the births of most of them 
are recorded in their mythology ; and altogether the 
notions entertained of them seem to have been very 
nearly the same as the vulgar superstitions still pre- 
vailing in most parts of Europe relative to the fairies, 
etc., these being doubtless no other than the ancient 
heathen deities of those parts, the belief in their exist- 
ence and dread of their power having survived the in- 
troduction of Christianity, though the title of ‘gods’ 
has been dropped, as well as the words ‘sacrifice’ and 
‘worship’ in reference to the offerings, invocations, 
and other tokens of reverence with which they are still 
in several places honored. It appears, therefore, that 
as the ancient heathens denounced the early Christians 
as Atheists for contemning the heathen deities, so they 
may be considered as being, in the Christian sense of 
the word, themselves Atheists (as indeed they are call- 
ed in Eplies. ii, 12), and that consequently the word 
4 God,’ in the Christian sense and in the heathen, 
must be regarded as having two meanings. Wide, 
therefore, of the truth is the notion conveyed in Pope’s 
4 Universal Prayer,’ the Pantheism, as it is called, of 
the ancient heathen philosophers and the Brahmins of 
the present day, who applied the word God to a sup- 
posed soul of the universe : 

41 4 Mens agitat molem, ct toto se corpore miscet,’ 

a spirit pervading all things (but not an agent or a. per- 
son}, and of which the souls of man and brutes are por- 
tions. In the Book of Revelation, 4 Jehovah, the self- 
existent and all-perfect Being, with the world which 
he created and which lie is ever ruling, alone meets 
our view. Though intimately present with all his 
works, he is yet entirely distinct from them. In him 
we live, and move, and have our being. lie is infinite- 
ly nigh to us, and he is intimately present with us, 


while we remain infinitely distant from his all-perfect 
, and incommunicable essence’ ” (Eden). 

3. Can God be known ? — The Scriptures declare that 
God is invisible (Exod. xxxiii, 20; John i, 18; 1 John 

iv, 12 ; 1 Tim. vi, 1G, etc.) and unsearchable (Job xi, 7 ; 
xxxvii, 23). But the very existence of the idea of God, 
and even the use of the name God, with its connotation 
as given above, imply, not indeed that it is possible for 
man to comprehend God, but that it is not impossible to 
knoic God. And so the Scriptures make it man’s duty 
to become “acquainted with God” (1 Chron. xxviii, 9 ; 
Jer. ix, 24 ; 2 Pet. i, 2 ; John xvii, 3, etc.). Even Athe- 
ists are bound to explain the res in intellectn manifest- 
ed in the thought and language of men. To deny ab- 
solutely that God can be known is to deny that he 
exists ; and, on the other hand, the proof, or even the 
admission that God exists, implies that it can not be 

1 absolutely unknown what or how he is : the knowledge 
of his existence implies as a necessary condition some 
knowledge of the mode of his existence, i.e. his power, 

' wisdom, justice, etc. The passages cited above, de- 
claring that God is invisible, etc., are not to be tor- 
tured to favor the idea that the human mind is abso- 
lutely incapable of knowing God. On the contrary, 
their purpose is to vindicate the claims of revelation 
as the source of knowledge of God. The Scriptures 
teach that God is made known in Christ (1) by his 
works (Rom. i, 20 ; Psa. xix, 1,2); (2) through his Son, 
which is, in part, his essence. True, God revealed 
his “glory” to Moses (Exod. xxxiii, 18-23), but the 
manifestation was given through a medium, or, rather, 
reflection, making “the goodness” of God to “pass 
before” Moses. Not sight, but faith, is the condition 
and means of our knowledge of God in this life (2 Cor. 

v, 7). God, then, can be known, but only so far as he 
pices the knowledge of himself and so far as the capacity 
of man can reach. Johannes Damascenus said truly, 
44 It is not possible to know God altogether ; neither is 
it altogether impossible to know God.” To see him 
with the bodily eyes would be fatal to a sinful creat- 
ure (see citations above). But there is a dead 44 knowl- 
edge of God” (Rom. i, 21 ; James ii, 19) ; and, in con- 
trast with it, there is a living knowledge of God, which 
includes a spiritual seeing of the invisible, the privilege 
of all who are in vital union with God through faith in 
his Son (Ileb. xi, 27). 

Science trusts to the functions and laws of the hu- 
man mind as its instruments for the discovery of truth. 
But to know the truth, and to recognise the ground and 
object of phenomena in their connection and unity, is a 
process which leads invariably to the knowledge of the 
original and perfect Being ; for every science which 
recognises truth and goodness in the world, in nature 
and in reason, recognises therewith a power of wisdom 
. and goodness. But as we cannot recognise such a 
power abstractly, in recognising it at all we recognise 
the eternal God (Suabedissen, Metaphgsik, 183G, p. 143). 
Yet as man, by science, can know the works of God 
only very imperfectly and incompletely, criticism and 
skepticism are always the companions of science ; and 
she can be, at best, only the pioneer of true religious 
knowledge, or its servant. For the true religious 
knowledge of God is not founded upon science, but 
upon life — the life of communion with. God. In the 
religious life the consciousness of God is before and 
apart from all reflection, all speculation ; the soul, in 
its rapid dialectics, under the pressure of religious 
needs, has no need of syllogism to prove the existence 
of God. So Tcrtullian declares (in his Testimonium 
Animai ) that even the common heathen mind, apart 
from philosophy, reached a truer knowledge of God 
and of divine things than the heathen mythology and 
philosophy could teach. Even the Platonic philosophy 
taught that the longing of the soul for the truth and 
beauty of goodness leads to a renunciation of the out- 
ward and visible in behalf of an apprehension of the 
spiritual and real. Spiritual Christianity transforms 


GOD 


905 


GOD 


this teaching into a higher one, viz. that the longing ' 
of the soul for God, the search for God in Christ, is al- 
ways rewarded, and that the “ pure in heart” see God 
with the spiritual eyes of faith. Luther’s doctrine that 
God may be taught, named, and apprehended in Christ, 
and in Christ alone, is quite in harmony with the early 
theology of the Church (e. g. Clement of Alexandria, 
Stromata , ii). Not that a mere intellectual faith in 
Christ brings this knowledge of God. With the con- 
version of the soul begins its new, spiritual capacity to 
receive and apprehend God ; and as the soul is emptied 
of self and purged from sin by the Holy Spirit, it 
grows in knowledge of God, in light and love, until the 
“life of God” hecomes the “life of the soul.” Dr. 
Nevin (Rejriy to Vorner , 18G9) has the following strik- 
ing passage as to the specifically Christian conception 
of God : “There is a sense in which the absolute being 
of God, as related immediately and directly to our cre- 
ated being, must be considered the necessary ground 
of our knowing him and coming into union with him in 
the way of religion. The whole possibility of religion ' 
for us starts in the God-consciousness, or direct sense 
of Deity, which is as much a part of our original na- 
ture as the sense we have of the world around us or of 
our own existence. It is not put into us by any out- 
ward evidence or argument. It authenticates and ne- 
cessitates itself as a fundamental fact in our life ; and 
in doing this it certifies, to the same extent, the truth 
of the object on which it is exercised. Or, rather, we 
must say, the truth of the object on which it is exer- 
cised, which is the Divine Being, or the existence of 
the Absolute, certifies itself, makes itself sure in and 
through the consciousness into which it enters. In 
this sense, the idea of God comes before Christianity, j 
as it comes before religion in every other form. But 
who will say that this general idea of God can be for 
us, therefore, the actual root of Christianity, so that 
any among us, starting with that alone, could ever by 
means of it come to a full construction of what God is 
for true Christian faith ? It lies at the ground of pan- 
theism, dualism, polytheism, deism, and all false re- 
ligions, no less than at the ground of Christianity. 
For the distinctive knowledge of Christianity, then, 
we need some other specific principle or root, which, 
however it may be comprehended in the general prin- 
ciple of all religion, must be regarded at the same 
time nevertheless as the ground and beginning, exclu- 
sively and entirely, of religion under this its highest 
and only absolutely complete form. Where, now, is 
that principle to be found ? Where does the whole 
world of Christianity, the new creation of the Gospel 
(life, power, doctrine, and all), take its rise and start ? 
Where do we come to the source of its perennial reve- 
lation, the ground of its indestructible life? Where, 
save in the presence of the Word Incarnate, the glori- 
ous Person of him who is the Boot and the Offspring i 
of David, the bright and morning Star — the faithful 
and true Witness, the Beginning of the creation of 
God !” 

But Religion has had her errors and excesses as well 
as Science. As the latter seeks in its pride, by purely 
intellectual effort, to apprehend the absolute, so the 
former has at certain periods allowed mysticism to take 
the place of the simple revealed truth as to the life of 
God in the soul, and, in the spirit of the Oriental theos- 
ophy, has called the “redeemed soul but a drop in the 
ocean of God” (see Mysticism). The orthodox Chris- 
tian doctrine keeps the golden mean between these ex- 
tremes. It asserts, and has asserted from the begin- 
ning, that a real and objective knowledge of God comes 
only from God’s revelation, and (hat only Kara to 
£<piKTuv, pro virili (Arist. De Munch'), according to the 
best capacity of man. It teaches not only that God is 
“incomprehensible,” but also that every step taken in 
the true knowledge of God by the soul makes his ‘‘ in- 
comprehensibility” more obvious. It does not pretend 
that the scriptural doctrine of one God in three persons | 


is perfectly within the scope of the human intellect to 
comprehend as well as to apprehend ; but all Church 
history shows that a genuine and even scientific knowl- 
edge of God has been better maintained with the doc- 
trine of the Trinity than w ithout it. When the Arians 
attacked the Nicene doctrine of the Trinity on the 
ground that it transcended human reason, the orthodox 
replied that it was easier to know God by receiving 
the doctrine of the Trinity than by rejecting it. Naked 
monotheism, whether in Judaism, Islamism, or else- 
where, has always ended in bald pantheism (q. v.), 
w hile on the other hand the Christian doctrine of the 
Trinity, though stigmatized by infidel and rationalistic 
opponents as Tritheism, has, from the beginning, pre- 
served in the Church the idea of God as the eternal, 
spiritual, and personal Being, and has kept up, also, a 
pure and spiritual worship of the Great Supreme. See 
Hitter, Ueber die Erkenntniss Gottcs in der Welt, 183G ; 
Nitzseh, Syst. d. Chrisllichen Lchre, § 7, GO-80 ; Nitzsch, 
in Herzog’s Real-Encyklop. s. v. Gott. 

V. Substance and Mode of the Scripture Teaching . — 
“ In the Scriptures no attempt is made to prove the 
existence of a God. The error of men consisted not in 
denying a God, but in admitting too many ; and one 
great object of the Bible is to demonstrate that there 
is but one. No metaphysical arguments, however, 
are employed in it for this purpose. The proof rests 
on facts recorded in the history of the Jew r s, from which 
it appears that they w’ere always victorious and pros- 
perous so long as they served the only living and true 
God, Jehovah (the name by which the Almighty made 
himself known to them), and uniformly unsuccessful 
w r hen they revolted from him to serve other gods. 
What argument could be so effectual to convince them 
that there was no god in all the earth but the God of 
Israel ? The sovereignty and universal providence of 
the Lord Jehovah are proved by predictions delivered 
by the Jewish prophets, pointing out the fate of na- 
tions and of empires, specifying distinctly their rise, 
the duration of their power, and the causes of their de- 
cline; thus demonstrating that one God ruled among 
the nations, and made them the unconscious instru- 
ments of promoting the purposes of his will. In the 
same manner, none of the attributes of God are demon- 
strated in Scripture by reasoning : they are simply af- 
firmed and illustrated by facts ; and instead of a regu- 
lar deduction of doctrines and conclusions from a few 
admitted principles, we are left to gather them from 
the recorded feelings and devotional expressions of 
persons whose hearts w r ere influenced by the fear of 
God. These circumstances point out a marked singu- 
larity in the Scriptures, considered as a repository of 
religious doctrines. The writers, generally speaking, 
do not reason, but exhort and remonstrate ; they do 
not attempt to fetter the judgment by the subtleties 
of argument, but to rouse the feelings by an appeal to 
palpable facts. This is exactly wliat might have been 
expected from teachers acting under a divine commis- 
sion, and armed with undeniable facts to enforce their 
admonitions. The sacred writers furnish us with in- 
formation on the existence and the character of God 
(1) from the names by which he is designated ; (2) from 
the actions ascribed to him ; and (3) from the attributes 
with which he is invested. 

“1. The names of God as recorded in Scripture con- 
vey at once ideas of overwhelming greatness and glory, 
mingled with that awful mysteriousness with which, 
to all finite minds, and especially to the minds of mor- 
tals, the divine essence and mode of existence must 
ever be invested. Though One, he is D“n-X, El- 
oiiim, Gods, persons adorable. He is Jeho- 

vah, self-existing ; 2X, El, the Mighty, Almighty ; “iTlj, 
Siiaddai, omnipotent , all-sufficient ; "OIX, Adonai, 
Lord , Ruler, Judge. These are among the adorable 
appellatives of God which are scattered throughout the 


GOD 


006 


GOD 


revelation that he has been pleased to make of himself. 1 
lint on one occasion he was pleased more particularly 
to declare his name , that is, such of the qualities and 
attributes of the divine nature as mortals are the most 
interested in knowing, and to unfold not only his nat- 
ural, but also those of his moral attributes by which 
his conduct towards his creatures is regulated: ‘And 
the Lord passed by and proclaimed, The Lord, the 
Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and 
abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for 
thousands, forgiving iniquity, transgression, and sin, 
and that will by no means clear the guilt}”; visiting 
the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and upon 
the children’s children unto the third and fourth gen- 
eration’ (Exod. xxxiv). This is the most ample and 
particular description of the character of God, as given 
by himself in the Old Testament” (Watson). The 
name “ which is above every name” (Fhil. ii, 9), is the 
name Jesus (Col. iii, 17). The name in Exod. iii, 14 
is peculiar in denoting God as the “God who reveals 
himself.” The declaration “lam that I am,” or “7 
nil l be that I millbe does not so much include a pred- 
icate of God as a declaration of the eternal being of 
God, as revealing himself and his kingdom in time ; it 
involves not merely the sense of existence (to which it 
is limited by the Septuagint version 6 wr), but also the 
idea of the continual self-revealing of God, and thus 
unifies , so to speak, all the successive steps and epochs 
of revelation. IIe is “ the Alpha and Omega , the be- 
ginning and the ending , which is , and which was , and 
which is to come — the Almighty ” (Lev. i, 8). The name 
Jehovah was too holy to be uttered, and others were 
substituted for it by the Jews ; the fearful penalty for 
blaspheming it was death (Lev. xxiv, 1G ; see Clarke’s 
note ad loc.'). In the names Father and Redeemer (Isa. 
lxiii, 16), new elements of the character of the self- 
revealing Jehovah are set forth; he shows himself as 
the God of grace and love to his people who turn unto 
him. — Watson, Institutes , pt. ii, c. i : Nitzsch, in Her- 
zog’s Iteal-Encyliop. s. v. Gott ; Hengstenberg, Fie 
Gottcsnamen des Pentateuch ; Knapp, Theology (Wood's 
ed. p. 84) ; Lange, On Genesis, Jntrod. § 7. 

2. Actions. — “The second means by which the Scrip- 
tures convey to us the knowledge of God is by the ac- 
tions which they ascribe to him. They contain, indeed, 
the important record of his dealings with men in every 
age which is comprehended within the limit of the sa- 
cred history, and by prophetic declaration they also 
exhibit the principles on which he will govern the 
world to the end of time; so that the whole course of 
the divine administration may be considered as exhib- 
iting a singularly illustrative comment upon those at - 1 
tributes of his nature which, in their abstract form, are 
contained in such declarations as those which have 
been just quoted. (1.) The first act ascribed to God 
is that of creation. By this w'ere manifested : his eter- 
nity and self -exlstenee, as he who creates must be before 
all creatures, and lie who gives being to others ean 
himself derive it from none ; his almighty power , shown 
both in the act of creation and in the number and vast- 
ness of the objects so produced ; his wisdom , in their 
arrangement and in their fitness to their respective 
ends ; and his goodness , as the whole tended to the hap- 
piness o f sentient beings. The foundations of his nat- 
ural and moral government are also made manifest by , 
his creative acts. In what he made out of nothing lie ' 
had an absolute right and prerogative; it awaited his j 
ordering, and was completely at his disposal ; so that 
to alter or destroy his own work, and to prescribe the 
laws by which the intelligent and rational part of his 
creatures should he governed, are rights which none 
can question. Thus, on the one hand, his character of 
Lord or Governor is established, and, on the other, our 
duty of lowly homage and absolute obedience. (2.) 
Providence . — Agreeably to this, as soon qs man w'as 
created lie w as placed under a rule of conduct. Obe- 
dience was to be followed with the continuance of the 


divine favor; transgression, with death. The event 
called forth new manifestations of the character of 
God. His tender mercy , in the compassion showed to 
the fallen pair; his justice, in forgiving them only in 
the view of a satisfaction to he hereafter offered to his 
justice by an innocent representative of the .Miming 
race ; his love to that race, in giving his own Son to 
become this Kedcemer, and in the fulness of time to 
die for the sins of the whole world; and his holiness, in 
connecting with this provision for the pardon of man 
the means of restoring him to a sinless state, and to 
the obliterated image of God in which he had been 
created. Exemplifications of the divine mercy are 
traced from age to age in his establishing his own wor- 
ship among men, and remitting the punishment of indi- 
vidual and national offences in answer to prayer of- 
fered from penitent hearts, and in dependence upon the 
typified or actually offered universal sacrifice ; of his 
condescension, in stooping to the eases of individuals, 
in his dispensations both of providence and grace, by 
show ing respect to the poor and humble, and princi- 
pally by the incarnation of God in the form of a serv- 
ant, admitting men into familiar and friendly inter- 
course with himself, and then entering iuto heaven to 
be their patron and advocate until they should be re- 
ceived into the same glory, ‘ and so be forever with the 
Lord ;’ of his strictly righteous government , in the de- 
struction of the old world, the cities of the plain, the 
nations of Canaan, and all ancient states, upon their 
‘ filling up the measure of their iniquities,’ and, to show” 
that ‘lie will by no means clear the guilty,’ in the nu- 
merous and severe punishments inflicted even upon the 
chosen seed of Abraham because of their transgres- 
sions ; of his long-suffering, in frequent warnings, de- 
lays, and corrective judgments inflicted upon individu- 
als and nations before sentence of utter excision and 
destruction ; of faithfulness and truth, in the fulfilment 
of promises, often many ages after they were given, 
as in the promises to Abraham respecting the posses- 
sion of the land of Canaan by his seed, and in all the 
‘ promises made to the fathers’ respecting the advent, 
vicarious death, and illustrious ofiices of the ‘Christ,’ 
the Saviour of the world ; of his immutability, in the 
constant and unchanging law’s and principles of his 
government, which remain to this day precisely the 
same in every thing universal as when first promul- 
gated, and have been the rule of his conduct in all 
places as well as through.all time; of his prescience of 
future events, manifested by the predictions of Scrip- 
ture; and of the depth and stability of his counsel , as 
illustrated in that plan and purpose of bringing hack 
a revolted world to obedience and felicity which we 
find steadily kept in view in the scriptural history of 
the acts of God in former ages — which is still the end 
towards which all his dispensations bend, how ever wide 
and mysterious their sweep, and which they will final- 
ly accomplish, as we learn from the prophetic history 
of the future contained in the Old and Kew” Testa- 
ments. Thus the course of divine operation in the 
world has from age to age been a manifestation of the 
divine character, continually receiving new’ and strong- 
er illustrations until the completion of the Christian 
revelation by the ministry of Christ and his inspired 
followers, and still placing itself in brighter light and 
more impressive aspects as the scheme of human re- 
demption rims on to its consummation. From all the 
acts of God as recorded in the Scriptures we are taught 
that he alone is God ; that he is present every where 
to sustain and govern all things : that his wisdom is 
infinite, his counsel settled, and his power irresistible ; 
that he is holy, just, and good — the Lord and the 
Judge, but the Father and the Friend, of man. 

3. Xature and Attributes.- — “More at large do we 
learn what God is from the declarations of the inspired 
writings. As to his substance, that ‘God is a Spirit.’ 
As to his duration, that ‘from everlasting to everlast- 
ing he is God;’ ‘the King, eternal, immortal, invisi- 


GOD 


907 


GOD 


blc.’ That, after all the manifestations he has made 
of himself, he is, from the infinite perfection and glory 
of his nature, incomprehensible: ‘ Lo, these are but parts 
of his ways, and how little a portion is heard of him !’ 
‘Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out.’ 
That he is unchangeable: ‘The Father of Lights, with 
whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of turn- 
ing.’ That ‘lie is the fountain of life,’ and the only 
independent Being in the universe : ‘ Who only hath 
immortality.’ That every other being, however ex- 
alted, has its existence from him: ‘For by him were 
all things created which are in heaven and in earth, 
whether they are visible or invisible.’ That the ex- 
istence of every thing is upheld by him, no creature 
being for a moment independent of his support: ‘By 
him all things consist;’ * upholding all things by the 
word of his power.’ That he is omnipresent: ‘ Do not 
I fill heaven and earth with my presence ? saith the 
Lord.’ That he is omniscient: ‘All things are naked 
and open before the eyes of him with whom we have 
to do.’ That he is the absolute Lord and Owner of all 
things : ‘ The heavens, even the heaven of heavens, 
are thine, and all the parts of them ‘ The earth is 
thine, and the 'fulness thereof, the world and them that 
dwell therein ‘lie doeth according to his will in the 
armies of heaven and among the inhabitants of the 
earth.’ That his providence extends to the minutest 
objects: ‘The hairs of your head are all numbered;’ 
‘Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing ? and one of 
them shall not fall on the ground without your Father.’ 
That he is a Being of unspotted purity and perfect rec- 
titude: ‘ Iloly, holy, holy Lord God of hosts!’ ‘A God 
of truth, and in whom there is no iniquity;’ ‘Of purer 
eyes than to behold iniquity.’ That he is just in the 
administration of his government : ‘ Shall not the Judge 
of the whole earth do right?’ ‘Clouds and darkness 
are round about him ; judgment and justice are the 
habitation of his throne.’ That his wisdom is un- 
searchable : ‘ 0 the depth of the wisdom and knowl- 
edge of God ! How unsearchable are his judgments, 
and his ways past finding out !’ And, finally, that he 
is good and merciful: ‘Thou art good, and thy mere}" 
endureth forever;’ ‘His tender mercy is over all his 
works ;’ ‘ God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love 
wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in 
sins, hath quickened us together with Christ;’ ‘God 
was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not 
imputing their trespasses unto them ;’ ‘ God hath given 
to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.’ See 
Attributes ; also VI below. 

“Under these deeply awful but consolatory views 
do the Scriptures present to us the supreme object of 
our worship and trust; and they dwell upon each of 
the above particulars with inimitable sublimity and 
beauty of language, and with an inexhaustible variety 
of illustration. Nor can wc compare these views of 
the divine nature with the conceptions of the most en- 
lightened of pagans without feeling how much reason 
we have for everlasting gratitude that a revelation so 
explicit and so comprehensive should have been made 
to us on a subject which only a revelation from God 
himself could have made known. It is thus that Chris- 
tian philosophers, even when they do not use the lan- 
guage of the Scriptures, are able to speak on this great 
and mysterious doetrine in language so clear and with 
conceptions so noble ; in a manner, too, so equable, so 
different from the sages of antiquity, who, if at any 
time they approach the truth when speaking of the di- 
vine nature, never fail to mingle with it some essen- 
tially erroneous or groveling conception. ‘ By the 
word God,’ says Dr. Barrow, ‘we mean a Being of in- 
finite wisdom, goodness, and power, the Creator and 
the Governor of all things, to whom the great attri- 
butes of eternity and independency, omniscience and 
immensity, perfect holiness and purity, perfect justice 
and veracity, complete happiness, glorious majesty, 
and supreme right of dominion belong, and to whom 


the highest veneration and most profound submission 
and obedience are due’ (Barrow, On the Creed). ‘Our 
notion of Deity,’ says Bishop Pearson, ‘doth expressly 
signify a Being or Nature of infinite perfection ; and 
the infinite perfection of a being or nature consists in 
this, that it be absolutely and essentially necessa- 
ry, an actual being of itself, and potential or causa- 
tive of all beings beside itself; independent from any 
other, upon which all things else depend, and by which 
all things else are governed’ (Pearson, On the Creed). 
‘God is a Being,’ says Lawson, ‘and not any kind of 
: being, but a substance which is the foundation of oth- 
er beings ; and not only a substance, but perfect. Yet 
many beings are perfect in their kind, yet limited and 
| finite ; but God is absolutely, fully, and every way in- 
finitely perfect, and therefore above spirits, above an- 
i gels, who are perfect comparatively. God’s infinite 
perfection includes all the attributes, even the most 
excellent. It excludes all dependency, borrowed ex- 
j istcnce, composition, corruption, mortality, contingen- 
I ey, ignorance, unrighteousness, weakness, misery, and 
all imperfections whatever. It includes necessity of 
being, independency, perfect unity, simplicity, im- 
mensity, eternity, immortality ; the most perfect life, 
knowledge, wisdom, integrity, power, glory, bliss, and 
all these in the highest degree. AA e can not pierce 
into the secrets of this eternal Being. Onr reason 
comprehends but little of him, and when it can proceed 
no farther faith comes in, and we believe far more than 
we can understand ; and this our belief is not contrary 
to reason, but reason itself dictates unto us that we 
must believe far more of God than it can inform us of’ 
(Lawson, Theo-Politica ). To these we may add an ad- 
mirable passage from Sir Isaac Newton: ‘The word 
God frequently signifies Lord , but every lord is not 
God : it is the dominion of a spiritual Being or Lord 
that constitutes God ; true dominion, true God ; su- 
preme, the Supreme ; feigned, the false god. From 
such true dominion it follows that the true God is liv- 
ing, intelligent, and powerful, and from his other per- 
fections that he is supreme, or supremely perfect ; he 
is eternal and infinite, omnipotent and omniscient ; that 
is, he endures from eternity to eternity, and is present 
from infinity to infinity. He governs all things that 
exist, and knows all things that are to be known ; he 
is not eternity or infinity, but eternal and infinite ; he 
is not dn ration or space, but he endures and is present 
— he endures always and is present every where ; he is 
omnipresent, not only virtually, but also substantially, 
for power without substance can not subsist. All 
things are contained and move in him, but without any 
mutual passion ; he sutters nothing from the motions 
of bodies, nor do they undergo any resistance from his 
omnipresence. It is confessed that God exists neces- 
sarily, and by the same necessity he exists always and 
every where: hence also he must be perfectly similar, 
all eye, all ear, all arm, all the power of perceiving, 
understanding, and acting ; but after a manner not at 
all corporeal, after a manner not like that of men, after 
a manner wholly to ns unknown. lie is destitute of 
all body and all bodily shape, and therefore can not be 
seen, heard, or touched, nor ought lie to be worshipped 
under the representation of any tiling corporeal. AYe 
have ideas of the attributes of God, but do not know 
the substance of even any thing ; we see only the fig- 
ures and colors of bodies, hear only sounds, touch only 
the outward surfaces, smell only odors, and taste tastes, 
and do not, cannot, by any sense or reflex act, know 
their inward substances, and much less can we have 
any notion of the substance of God. AYe know' him by 
his properties and attributes.’ ” — Newton, Principia , 
ii, 311, ed. 1803; AYatson, Instit. pt. ii, c. i. 

A T I. Dogmatical Treatment of the Doctrine of God. 
— 1. The exposition of the doctrine of God is the prov- 
ince of Theology proper, as distinguished from Anthro- 
pology , Soteriology, etc. See Theology. The doc- 
trine is set forth by writers on systematic theology 


GOD 


908 - 


GOD 


according to their views of the relations of the subject 
to the other branches, but in general it constitutes the 
first topic treated, and is divided very much as fol- 
lows : 

2. Division . — I. The Nature of God: 1. As the 
original and unoriginated personal Being: (a) One; 

( b ) self-existent ; (e) infinite. 2. As the original Word 
and 117//; ( a ) Creator; (b) preserver; (c) governor 
of the world. 3. As the original Spirit: (a) Essen- j 
tial Spirit ; ( b ) origin of all moral and spiritual laws 
and existences. And hence, II, the Trinity of 
three persons in the one Godhead: Father, Son, Holy 
Ghost. See Monotheism ; Trinity. 111. The At- 
tributes of God. These are not parts of the divine 
essence, but conceptions of the idea of God in his 
relations to the world and to human thought (Sttabe- 
dissen, p. 150). Perfection? s Dei , qiue essentiam din - 
7i am nostro concipiendi rnodo per se consequuntur , et de j 
Deo paronymice preedicantur (Hollaz, p. 234). So Aqui- 
nas: “The name of God does not express the divine 
essence as it is, as the name of man expresses in its 
signification the essence of man as it is; that is to 
say, l>y signifying the definition which declares the 
essence” (Summa, pt. i, q. xiii, art. i). The ground of 
this distinction was the conviction that finite things 
cannot indicate the nature of the infinite God other- 
wise than by imperfect analogies. “The attributes 
of God must be represented to our minds, so far as 
they can be represented at all, under the similitude of 
the corresponding attributes of man. Yet we cannot 
conceive them as existing in God in the same manner 
as they exist in man. In man they are many, in God 
they must be one. In man they are related to and 
limit each other; in God there can be no relation and 
no limitation. In man they exist only as capacities 
at times carried into action; in God, who is pnrus ac- 
tus, there can be no distinction between faculty and 
operation. Hence the divine attributes may properly 
be called mysterious ; for, though we believe in their 
coexistence, we are unable to conceive the manner of 
their co-existence” (Quarterly Review , July, 18G4, art. 
iii). There have been many divisions of the attributes 
of God. The scholastic theology set forth the attri- 
butes in three ways: 1. by causality (via causalitatis ), 
in which all the perfections we observe in creation, 
and especially in man, are necessarily to be attributed 
to their Creator; 2. by negation (via neyationis ), under 
which the imperfections of created beings are kept out 
of the conception of God ; 3. by analogy or eminence 
(via analogue , via eminentiee ), by which the highest de- 
gree of all known perfections is attributed to God. 
Accordingly, the attributes of God were classed as neg- 
ative and positive , the negative being such as remove 
from him whatever is imperfect in creatures — such are 
infinity, immutability, immortality, etc. ; while the 
positive assert some perfection in God which is in and 
of himself, and which in the creatures, in any meas- 
ure, is from him. This distinction is now mostly dis- 
carded. Among modern writers. Dr. Samuel Clarke 
sums up the attributes as ultimately referrible to these 
three leading ones : omnipotence, omniscience, and 
perfect goodness. Others distinguish them into abso- 
lute and relative: absolute are such as belong to the 
essence of God, as Jehovah, Jail, etc.; relative ones 
are such as may be ascribed to'liim in time, with rela- 
tion to his creatures, as creator, governor, preserver, 
redeemer, etc. Others, again, divide them into com- 
municable and incommunicable attributes. The com- 
municable are those which can be imparted to the 
creature, as goodness, holiness, wisdom, etc. ; the in- 
communicable are such as cannot be so imparted, as 
independence, immutability, immensity, and eternity. 
Another division makes one class of natural attributes, 
e. g. eternity, immensity, etc., and another of moral , 
e. g. holiness, goodness, etc. „ The later German theo- 
logians attempt more scientific discriminations ; e. g. I 
liohme (Lehre v. d. Gotti. Eigenschaften , 1821 ; last ed. I 


Altcnburg, 1842) distinguishes the attributes into those 
which refer to the icorld in general , and those which 
refer to the moral world in particular. Schleiermacher 
makes two classes: (1.) attributes which refer to the 
universal sense of dependence on God, viz. omnipo- 
tence, omniscience, omnipresence; (2.) attributes which 
refer to the Christian sense of redemption and of de- 
pendence on God, viz. holiness, justice, wisdom, love. 
Pelt (Theolog. Encycl. § 74) classes them as (1.) attri- 
butes of God as absolute cause ( a ) in himse[f — eternal, 
infinite, self-sufficient; (b) in relation to the icorld — 
omnipotent, omnipresent ; (2.) attributes of God as the 
original and self-revealing will — good, holy, just, benev- 
olent, etc. Rothe's scheme of the attributes is thus 
set forth by Babut in the Bulletin of the Rerue Chre - 
tienne (1868, No. 3, Juillot): J. Absolute or immanent 
Attributes: 1. self-sufficiency of God as a pure and ab- 
solute Being; 2. majesty; the divine will ; 3. blessed- 
ness. II. Relative A tributes, implied in God’s rela- 
tion to the universe; the love of God is the source of 
creation and being, while the essence of God is express- 
ed in infinity, immensity, immutability. The jierson- 
alitg of God is manifested to the world in goodness, 
wrath, grace ; the intelligence of God in omniscience, 
holiness, truth. The will of God is manifested in om- 
nipotence, justice, faithfulness ; and the divine na- 
ture is manifested in the one attribute of omnipotence. 
See Bates, Harmony of the Divine A ttributes , C’har- 
nock, Existence and Attributes of God (Bond. 1845, 8vo, 
last edit.); Elwert, in Tub. Zeitschrift, 1830: Blasche, 
ejottl. Eigenschaften (Erfurdt, 1831) ; Andrea*, De Attrib. 
Dichi., etc. (Lugdun. 1824) ; Bruch, Lehre v. d. gottl. 
Eigenschaften (Hamb. 1842); Moll, De justo attributo- 
rum Dei discrimine (Hal. 1855); Shedd, History of Doc- 
trine, i, 240 ; Hase, Evany. Dogmatik , § 102 sq., and 
writers on systematic theology generally. See Crea- 
tion ; Trinity; Providence. 

VI I. History of the Doctrine of God . — The history of 
the argument for the being of God w ill be found under 
Naturae Theology. We treat here briefly the his- 
tory of the doctrine of the nature and attributes of 
God. The first office of Christianity was to vindicate 
the spirituality of God against the material and anthro- 
pomorphic ideas of paganism, and even of corrupted 
Judaism. The proposition “ God is a Spirit” was 
therefore a fundamental one; yet at an early period 
anthropomorphic ideas were developed in the Church. 
Melito, bishop of Sardis, in his treatise nfpi tvaoiyd- 
rov BfoD (Eusebius, Hist. Eccl. iv, 2G), taught a cor- 
poreal representation of God. Tertullian (adv. Prax- 
eam, c. vii) declares Ueum corpus esse, etsi Spiritus ist ; 
nihil enim incorporale nisi quod non est ; and thus 
plainly show’s that he could not distinguish realit}’ - 
from corporeity, even in God. The Antliropomor- 
phites took the phrase “image of God” in a material 
sense, and taught that God is man per eminentium. 
(2.) The second error was Dualism (q. v.), brought in 
by the Gnostic distinction between the supreme God 
and the Demiurge. See Gnosticism. (3.) Opposed 
to both these was the philosophical mode of conceiving 
God, including the idea of immateriality, proved neg- 
atively, e. g. Minuciiis Felix : Ilic nec videri potest — 
visu clarior est ; nec comprehendi potest — tactu purior 
est; nec wstimari — sensibus major est: inf nit us, immen- 
sus, ct soli sibi tantus quantus est notiis. “ The Alex- 
andrians opposed all crude anthropopathisms, but they 
were not successful in correctly separating t be real 
and the sensuous view, and hence w’ere led into a sub- 
tilizing of the divine attributes. Clement attributes 
all errors in the apprehension of the Old Testament to 
the sensuous and liberal mode of understanding it, 
which led men to represent, after human fashion, the 
nature of God, who is exalted above all human pas- 
sions. The prophets could represent God to us, not 
as he is, but only as w’e sensuous men can understand 
it (Strom, p. 391). Origen also sees in the Old Testa- 
ment a condescension of God to the weakness of man. 


GOD 


909 


GOD 


In fact, there is no wrath in God, but he must appear 
as if wrathful to the bad, on account of the sufferings 
which their own evil conduct entails upon them ( Uom . 
18, in Jerem.). The Alexandrians disputed the self- 
subsistence of God’s primitive justice, and merged it 
in the idea of a cucaioavvi) (jom/pioc, a disciplining re- 
formatory love.” Augustine speaks of God as the ipsa 
incommutabilis veritas . . . illud solum quod non tan- 
tum non mutatur, verum etiam mutari non potest, etc. 
Hut he declares that no complete definition of God can 
be given: JJeus ineffttbilis est: facilius dicimus quod 
Deus non sit , quam quid sit (Comm, in Psal. Ixxxv). 
In the period of the Arian controversy, all questions 
as to the nature of God were bound up with the dis- 
cussion of the Trinity (q. v.) ; and in the period from 
Gregory I to the scholastic age (11th century), with 
that of the doctrines of the Holy Spirit and the Person 
of Christ. See Christology. In the scholastic pe- 
riod Anselm supposed an analogy (before used by Au- 
gustine) between the divine mind and the human. 
“We cannot know,” he says, “the supreme Being in 
himself, but only after a certain analog}" with created 
beings, therefore most of all with the rational spirit. 
The more this spirit enters into itself and observes it- 
self, the more will it succeed in raising itself to the 
knowledge of the absolute Spirit. The human spirit 
is a mirror in which we may see the image of that 
which we do not directly behold. The supreme Spirit 
presupposes his own existence, knows himself; the 
Word begotten from himself is one with his own es- 
sence. Thus the supreme Being expressed himself. 
As everything which is produced by human art was 
before in the idea of the formative spirit, and as this 
idea remains even when the work perishes, and is, in 
this respect, one with the art of the formative spirit it- 
self, so it is not another, but the same word by w hich 
God know's himself and all creatures. In the divine 
Word creatures have a higher being than in them- 
selves; the ideal being rests in the divine thoughts. 
The relation of the Son to the Father is something ele- 
vated above all language. The expression generation 
is best suited to represent the relation, but yet it is 
symbolical. Further, as God knows himself, he loves 
himself ; his love to himself presupposes his being and 
knowing. This is also denoted by the procession of 
the Holy Spirit from both; all three pass completely 
into one another, and thus constitute the unity of the 
Supreme Being” ( Monologium , c. G4). The view of 
God taught by Scotus Erigena — In deo immutabiliter 
et essentialiter sunt omnia — led, in the hands of David 
of Dinanto and Amalrich of Bena, to a pantheistic 
theory, which was opposed by Aquinas and the later 
schoolmen, especially by Albertus Magnus. As to the 
attributes of God, the principal discussions of the scho- 
lastic period related to his omnipotence and omnipres- 
ence. The confessions of faith of the Reformation pe- 
riod generally agree as to the doctrine of the nature, 
attributes, and w orks of God : the discussions that 
have arisen in the bosom of Protestantism on this sub- 
ject refer chiefly to the doctrines of the Trinity (q. v.) 
and predestination (q. v.). The later theories of the 
philosophical period, on the sceptical side, are those of 
Idealism, Materialism, and Pantheism (see the several 
heads). Some later Christian writers, in opposing the 
extremes of German Rationalism, have denied the pos- 
sibility of any scientific knowdedge of God. Mansell 
(Limits of Religious Thought , Bampton Lectures for 
1859) maintains that only a regulative (as distinguish- 
ed from a speculative) knowledge of God is possible. 
“To conceive,” says he, “the Deity as he is, we must 
conceive him as first cause, as absolute, and as infi- 
nite. But do not these three conceptions imply con- 
tradiction to each other, when view r ed in conjunction, 
as attributes of one and the same being? A cause 
cannot, as such, be absolute: the absolute cannot, as 
such, be a cause. Ilow r can the infinite become that 
which it w r as not from the first?” Mr. Mansell here 


pushes his opposition to the use of reason too far; and 
finding the words “absolute” and “infinite” used in 
transcendental senses by the Germans, he adopts those 
senses, and reasons as if no other definitions w'ere pos- 
sible. For criticisms of his work, see London Review , 
July, I860, p. 390 sq. ; Young, The Province of Reason 
(London, 1800) ; McCosh, Method of the Divine Govern- 
ment (Edinb. 1859, 6th edit.). The Christian concep- 
tion of God over against the modern speculative idea 
is w r ell set fortli in the following passage : “The prob- 
lem in regard to God is simply this : The human mind 
is compelled to think a unity or synthesis of all things. 
But how- is this to be thought ? Are we to think it in- 
side nature, or outside and above it? Here it is that 
the Christian idea breaks olf from the speculative. 
The Christian, realizing his own personality, feeling 
intensely that he himself in his inmost being is nu- 
merically different from and above nature, is compelled 
to think of the divine as in like manner supernatural. 
Having attained to this stage, the next question that 
arises is, How are we to image forth the divine Be- 
ing ? and the answer is, not surely by the lowest kind 
of natural existence, but by the highest. The human 
personality itself, not the immutabilities of the mate- 
rial world, which are lower in the scale of being, must 
be the image which shall shadow forth the divine Be- 
ing. That wdiich comprehends all things must, at 
least, equal in perfection the highest of these things. 
Thus the human personality becomes in the Christian 
system the image and likeness of God. God may, in- 
deed, be far higher than man — so high that to call him 
a person may be as inadequate as to call the human 
soul a power. But, at least, we are sure of this, that 
whatever he is in himself, all that we mean by person- 
ality is comprehended in him. Just as man is a pow- 
er and something more, so God is a person and per- 
haps something more. There is an indestructible be- 
lief in man, that all the pure feelings of the soul find 
a response in the infinite Author of all things. Under 
the impress of this universal conviction, men fall on 
their knees and worship. Such is the pure Christian 
idea, and it involves this consequence, that eaeli indi- 
vidual soul stands in a special and, personal relation to 
the infinite Author of all. There is an eye which is 
ever over us; a fatherly heait which yearns for us. 
There is One whose wisdom never fails, who is ever 
about our path and about our bed, and provides for us 
in all things. In like manner as he is all this to us, 
so we in turn are his children ; we are responsible to 
him as to a father, and must be judged by him. In- 
tellectually, too, the same Christian idea involves this 
consequence — that it is a grander and w orthier concep- 
tion of his providence to think him as dealing with 
and disciplining individual souls, than as contriving 
and arranging a world of dead law's. The one reveals 
heart and soul, the grandeur of personality and kingly 
might ; the other, if taken by itself, only ingenuity, 
not necessarily personality at all. The speculative 
idea of God is the antithesis of this. It, too, recog- 
nises a central unity ; but, looking avray from the w’orld 
of mind and soul, it concentrates its attention on the 
world of matter. It takes the law's of the material 
w’orld as the image of the divine. God is revealed in 
the evolutions of nature. 11 is attributes consequently 
are such as these : perfect wisdom, infinite power, ab- 
solute invariability of purpose. He has neither heart 
nor soul, nor even consciousness, as we understand it. 
He is impersonal, and can have no personal relation 
to us. He has neither knowledge nor care of the in- 
dividual, but acts purely by general law. We need 
not, however, pursue the consequences, which are suf- 
ficiently apparent. It will be enough if we point out 
their bearing on practical life. Here are two opposing 
systems which hold a very different language to the 
human soul. The one says in the fine language of St. 
Augustine, 0 homo , agnosce dignitatem tuam ; the oth- 
er, 0 man, rejoice in thy degradation. The one digni- 


GODDARD 


910 


GODLINESS 


ties and ennobles the soul, anti, supplying it with a 
lofty ideal and immortal hopes, raises it from the depth 
of selfishness ; the other degrades it to the level of the 
brute, and, depriving it alike of hope and fear, bids it 
snatch what enjoyment it can from the passing hour. 
That lofty conception of God, which has done so much 
for modern Europe, is purely the creation of Christian- 
ity. Were this latter taken away, it would instantly 
collapse, and there would only remain, for the upper 
classes, hopeless, selfish atheism ; for the lower, de- 
grading superstition” ( Christian Remembrancer , July, 
1866, art. xiii). On the history of the doctrine of God 
in general, see a series of able articles by Hitachi, in 
the Jahrbucher f. deutsche Theologie , vols. x, xiii. — Me- 
ander, History of Dogmas, p. 102, 285, 485, 460 ; Beck, 
Dogmengeschichte, p. 104-138; Hagen bach, Dogmenge- 
schichte ; Tlasc, Evungelische Dogmatik , p. 93-111 ; Klei- 
ners, Jlist. doct. de vero deo (Lemgo, 1780, 8vo) ; Pcr- 
rone, Prmlect. Theol. i, 296-500; Gieseler, Dogmenge- 
schichte , p. 107, 299, 48G ; Guericke, Christliche Symbo- 
Jik , § 34; Storr and Flatt, Biblical Theol. bk. ii, pt. i; 
Knapp, Theology , § 83-85 ; Iiothe, Ethik , i ; KVeisse, 
Die Idee der Gottheit (1833) ; Ritter, Ueber cl. Erkennt- 
niss Gottes in d. 1 Veit (183G); Sengler, Die Idee Gottes 
(1848-1852); Spilth, Golt u.d. Welt (1867). See also 
Pantheism ; Providence. 

GOD, Friends of. See Friends of God. 

GOD, Peace of. See Pax Dei. 

Goddard, Josiaii, a Baptist minister, missionary, 
and translator of the Scriptures, was born at Wendell, 
Mass., in 1813; graduated at Brown University in 
1835, and at Newton Theological Seminary in 1838. 
He was appointed a missionary to the Chinese in Siam, 
China being not yet open to the residence of foreign- 
ers. There he labored with success as a preacher, 
translated the Gospel of John, and prepared tracts and 
an Anglo-Chinese vocabulary. Being taken with 
bleeding from the lungs, he removed to Ningpo, one 
of the treaty ports then recently assigned for foreign 
trade and residence. Here he continued, with con- 
scious and growing weakness, holding upon life by a 
peculiarly uncertain tenure, } r et with courage and pa- 
tience, to labor on for six years — preaching, journey- 
ing, preparing and circulating tracts, and carrying to 
completion his version of the New Testament. This 
is a valuable contribution to the difficult work of Bib- 
lical translation in the Chinese language. He was an 
excellent scholar, and made high attainments in the 
study of that language. He proved himself a sensible 
and cautious, but brave and earnest worker. The dis- 
ease against which he had borne up so long proved 
fatal in 1854. (L. E. S.) 

Godeau, Antoine, a Roman Catholic bishop, was 
born at Dreux in 1G05. He was destined by his par- 
ents for public life, but, having been disappointed in 
love, entered the ministry. lie was one of the orna- 
ments of the Hotel Rambouillet at Paris, where his 
talent for verse gained him distinction. Richelieu 
made him bishop of Grasse in 1G36. After his conse- 
cration lie retired to his diocese, and devoted himself 
to its duties. He subsequently quitted the see of 
Grasse for that of Vence, where he died April 21, 1G72. 
He wrote Morale Chretienne (1705, 3 vols. 12mo): — 
Paraphrases des Epitres de St. Paul et des Epitres Ca- 
nonifpies (1010, 1011, 4to) : — Psanmes de David , tra- 
duits cn vers Frangais : — Xouveau Testament traduit et 
expliq. (IGOs, 2 vols. 8vo), besides other smaller works, 
chiefly biographical. The most important of his pro- 
ductions is the Ilistoire de I'Eglise , from the commence- 
ment of the world to the end of the 9th century (Paris, 
1G53 1078, 5 vols. fob). He left KISS, continuing the i 
work. The first volume exposed the author to a 
charge of heresy, and the threats of a powerful eccle- 
siastic induced him to write the rest of his work with 
leas impartiality. — Dupin. Eccks. Writers, 17th cent. ; ] 


Hook, Eccles. Biog. vol. v ; Niceron, Memoires , xvih^ 
xx ; Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gener . xx, 885. 
Godeschalcus. See Gottsciialk. 
Godfathers ; Godmothers. See Sponsors. 

Godfrey of Bouillon, duke of Lorraine, was 
born at Bezy, in Brabant, probably about A.D. 1060. 
He served with high distinction in the armies of the 
emperor Henry IV. When, near the end of the 11th 
century, the first crusade was set on foot, he entered 
into the movement, and was the first in rank among the 
Crusaders. “He not only signalized himself by valor 
among the valorous, and by enthusiasm among the en- 
thusiastic, but he showed also disinterestedness, probi- 
ty r , skill, and prudence, which were of a higher and 
rarer order, lie maintained the most complete disci- 
pline among his division of the Christian army, which 
he brought safely to the appointed muster-] dace be- 
neath the walls of Constantinople in the winter of 1096. 
By his sagacity and firmness he prevented hostilities 
breaking out between the host of the Crusaders and the 
Greek emperor, Alexius Comnenus, and in the spring 
of 1097 Godfrey led the Frankish nations into Asia Mi- 
nor, to the siege of the capital of the Turkish sultan of 
Nice. This city was captured after a siege, in which 
the personal valor of Godfrey, as well as his general- 
ship, was frequently displayed. He was tall, well- 
proportioned, and of such remarkable strength and 
dexterity in the use of his weapons that he is said, in 
more than one encounter, to have cloven his foe by a 
single s word-stroke from skull to centre. After Nice 
was captured, the Crusaders marched forward and de- 
feated a Turkish army in the great battle of Dorylamm. 
They reached Antioch, in Syria, late in the winter of 
1097. The city was captured after an obstinate resist- 
ance, and the weakened army of the victors was in turn 
besieged in its walls by an innumerable host of the 
Mohammedans. After enduring much suffering and 
loss, Godfre} r led the Crusaders in a sudden sortie upon 
their enemies, which was completely victorious. The 
enthusiasm caused among the Christian army bi T the 
supposed discovery of the relic of the holy lance was 
one great cause of this success. It was not till 1099 
that the Crusaders reached Jerusalem, and their num- 
bers were then reduced by the sword and by disease to 
only 1500 horse and 20,000 foot fit for service. The 
Mohammedan garrison was far more numerous, and 
the city was formidably strong. But the zeal of the 
Crusaders was indomitable” (Rich, s. v.), and the Holy 
City was carried by storm July 15, 1099. Godfrey 
was proclaimed first Latin king of Jerusalem, but he 
rejected the title, and assumed the style of “Defender 
and Baron of the Holy Sepulchre.” He defeated the 
sultan of Egypt at Ascalon, August 12, 1099. God- 
frey compiled and promulgated a code named Les .4 s- 
sises de Jerusalem , which, as finally revised towards 
the close of the 14th centuiy for the use of the Latin 
kingdom of Cyprus, is printed in old law French in 
Beau m an oir's Coutumes de Beauvaisais (Bourges and 
Paris, 1690). He died in 1100. See Creasy, in Rich’s 
Cyclop, of Biography; English Cyclopaedia ; Michaud, 
Ilistoire des Croisades. 

Godhead, the nature or essential being of God 
(Acts xvii, 29 ; Rom. i, 20; Col. ii, 9). 

Godliness, strictly taken, is right worship or de- 
votion, but in general it imports the whole of practical 
religion (1 Tim. iv, 8; 2 Pet. i, 6). It is difficult, as 
Saurin observes, to include an adequate idea of it in 
what is called a definition. “ It supposes knowledge, 
veneration, affection, dependence, submission, grati- 
tude, and obedience ; or it may be reduced to these 
four ideas : knoudedge in the mind, by which it is dis- 
tinguished from the visions of the superstitious; recti- 
tude in the conscience, that distinguishes it from h} T - 
pocrisy ; sacrifice in the life, or renunciation of the 
world, by which it is distinguished from the unmean- 
ing obedience of him who goes as a happy constitution 


GODMAN 


911 


GOEPP 


leads him ; and, lastly, zeal in the heart, which differs 
from the languishing emotions of the lukewarm.” The 
advantages of this disposition are honor, peace, safety, 
usefulness, support in death, and prospect of glory; or, 
as the apostle sums up all in a few words, “ It is prof- 
itable unto all things , having the promise of the life that 
now is, and of that which is to come” (1 Tim. iv, 8). 
In 1 Tim. iii, 1G, it means the substance of revealed re- 
ligion as furnished in the various particulars enumer- 
ated. — Harrow, Works^ i, 9; Scott, Christ. Life; Scou- 
gal, Life of God in the Soul of Man ; Snurin, Sermons, 
Engl, trans. v, serm. 3; Buck, Theol. Dictionary , s. v. 

Godman, John D., an American naturalist and 
physician, was born at Annapolis, Maryland, in 1794, 
and, being early left an orphan, was bound apprentice 
to a printer, and afterwards entered the navy as a 
sailor-boy. At nineteen he commenced the study of 
medicine, and on completing his studies he settled in 
Philadelphia as a physician and private teacher of an- 
atomy, and for some time was an assistant editor of 
the Medical Journal. In 1826 he was elected to the 
professorship of anatomy in Rutgers’ Medical College, 
and removed to New York, where he soon acquired ex- 
tensive practice as a surgeon. Ill health, however, 
obliged him to relinquish his practice, and spend a 
winter in the West Indies. He died of consumption 
at Germantow n, Pa., April 17, 1830. He wrote a num- 
ber of professional works of value ; but he is mention- 
ed here because of the fact that, having at one time 
adopted the infidelity and atheism of the French natu- 
ralists of the last century, the death of a friend in 1827 
led him to reflection and to the reading of the Scrip- 
tures, and he became eminent for Christian piety. An 
account of him by Dr. T. Sew r all is published by the 
American Tract Society. — Davenport, Biogr . Diction- 
ary; Allibone, Dictionary of Authors, i, G81. 

God-man. See Incarnation. 

Godwin, Francis, an eminent English prelate 
and Church historian, was born at Havington, North- 
amptonshire, in 15G1. In 1578 he entered the college 
of Christ Church, Oxford, of w hich his father, Thomas 
Godwin, was dean. Here he took successively the de- 
grees of B.A. in 1580, M.A. in 1583, B.D. in 1593, and 
D. D. in 1595. He held divers ecclesiastical offices un- 
til his publication of the Catalogue of the Bishops of 
England caused him to be appointed bishop of LlandatF. 
A Latin translation of this work, dedicated to James 
I, secured him the bishopric of Hereford. He died 
April, 1G33. His works are, A Catalogue of the Bish- 
ops of England since the first planting of Christianity 
in the Island , with a histoi'y of their lives and memorable 
ac&'o«s(lG01,4to; 2d ed. with additions, and Latin trans- 
lation, 1615. This translation, with a continuation, 
was republished by Richardson, under the title De 
Prasnltbus Anglice Commentarius , Cambridge, 1743, fo- 
lio): — Rerum Asnglicamm Henrico VIII , Edwardo I T, et 
Maria regnantibus , Annales (101 G, fob ; London, 1G28, 
4 to ; English, by his son Morgan, 1630, fol.) : — Nuncius 
inanimaius in Utopia (1629, 8vo) : — A Computation of 
the Value of the Roman Sesterce and Attic Talent (1630) : 
— The Man in the Moon, or a Discourse of a Voyage 
thither by Domingo Gonsales (1638, 8vo ; another edit, 
of 1G57 contains a translation of the Nuncius inanima- 
tus). See Biographia Britcmnica; Chalmers, General 
Biog. Dictionary . 

Godwin, Thomas, D.D., an English theologian, 
was born in Somersetshire in 1587. He entered Mag- 
dalen Hall, Oxford, in 1602, became head master of the 
free school of Abingdon in 1G09, and afterwards rector 
cf Brightwell, Berkshire. He died in 1643, leaving a 
great reputation both as a teacher and as an author. 
He wrote Moses and A aron ; or the civil and ecclesiastical 
Rites used by the ancient Hebrews , observed and at large 
opened for the clearing of many obscure Texts throughout 
the whole Scripture , etc. (London, 1685, 4to, 12th ed.) ; 
translated into Latin, Moses et Aaron , cum Hottingeri 


Notis (Ultraj. 1690 ; often reprinted) : — Romance histo* 
rue Anthologia , an English Exposition of the Roman 
Antiquities (Lond. 1C8G, 4to, IGth ed.) : — Dissertatio de 
theocratia Israeliiarum : — Three A rguments to prove 
Election upon Foresight by Faith, a w r ork w hich brought 
him into a controversy with the ultra-Calvinist, Dr. 
Twiss (q. v.). See Horne, Bibliographical Appendix; 
Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. i, 1279 ; Allibone, Dictionary 
of Authors, i, 682. 

Goel (^H, goeU, part, of gaaV , to redeem ; 

in full, Cnn bsily, avenger of blood, rendered “kins- 
man,” “redeemer,” “avenger,” etc., in the A. Vers.). 
Among the Hebrew’s, the right of repurchasing and 
redeeming, as w ell as that of avenging blood, apper- 
tained onl 3 r to the next relative; hence goel , simply, 
is used for the next relative (Lev. xxv, 25). Similar 
usages prevail universally among the modern Arabs. 
See Blood-revenge. Connected with the duties of 
the Goel was, according to custom, also that of marry- 
ing the childless w'idow of the deceased relative (Deut. 
xx, 5-10). See Levirate Law. 

The fact of the close consanguinity renders the Goel 
an eminent type of the Redeemer of mankind, as is 
especially evinced in that famous passage in the Ori- 
ental epic of Job. The afflicted man, by a striking 
anticipation of the incarnate Mediator, standing in im- 
mortal self-existence over the sleeping ashes of his 
kindred saint, who was misunderstood and maligned 
even by his best earthly friends, thus touchingly ex- 
ults in the prospect that his disembodied spirit should 
survive to witness the posthumous vindication of his 
fame (Job xix, 25-27) : 

[Be this my dying testimony,] 

That / have known my living Goel ; 

And last upon [the] dust lie will arise: 

Yes, after my skin has decayed, [even] thus ; 

Yet without my flesh shall I behold Deity! 

Whom I shall behold [as] mine ; 

(Yes, my eyes, they have [already] seen [him], 
Nor lias he been strange [to me]), 

[Though] they have failed, my reins within me. 

The sentiment was well w'orthy to be “engraved w’ith 
an iron style, and set with lead in the rock forever,” 
as the epitaph of the noble patriarch (ver. 24). Al- 
though it does not (as erroneously rendered in the A. 
V.) contain any allusion to the resurrection of the 
bod}’, yet it distinctly recognises the doctrines of a 
fellow-feeling on the part of God towards man, and of 
the immortality of the soul ; and it shows liow r these 
tenets, w hich lie at the basis of all true religion, wheth- 
er natural or revealed, are alone adequate to support 
the human spirit under the sorrow’s of life, and in view 
of death. (See Stor, De vindice sanguinis, Lips. 1694 ; 
Stickel, De Goele, Jen. 1832; and the dissertations on 
the passage by Rosshirt [Herbip. 1791] and Ivosegar- 
ten [Griefsw’. 1815].) See Redeemer. 

Goepp, Jean Jacques, a French Protestant theo- 
logian, was born at Heiligenstein, Alsace, April 6, 
1771. He studied at the University of Strasburg un- 
der Oberlin and Schweighaeuser, and had already be- 
gun bis career as a preacher when the French Revo- 
lution broke out. Appointed secretary of the Central 
Committee of Strasburg, he opposed the cruelty of 
Schneider, the Republican commissioner, and would 
perhaps have paid dear for his courage but that he was 
drafted into the army, in which he served until 1796, 
W'hen he returned to finish his theological studies at 
Strasburg. In 1802 he was appointed pastor of the 
French Protestant congregation at Strasburg, almoner 
of the Lyceum of that city in 1803, director of St. 
Thomas’s Seminary in 18C8, and, finally, pastor of the 
Lutheran Church in Paris in 18C$. There, together 
with Boissard, he opened the church called the Bil- 
leites, took care of over 14,000 souls dispersed all over 
Paris, attended to the poor, the schools, and all the 
other details of his charge. He was one of the found- 
ers of the Missions Evangeliques , of the Societe hiblique , 


GOERIXG 


912 


GOERTNER 


the Sociele protestante de Prevoyance et de Secours mu- 
tutls , and the Societede la Morale Chritienne. In 1815, 
at the time of the massacre of the Protestants at Nimes, 
a London society had made proposals to the French 
Protestants to help them. Had the proposal been ac- 
cepted, the position of Protestantism in France would 
have become even much worse than it had been. 
Goepp, while gratefully acknowledging the offer, de- 
clined, in the name of the French Protestants, accept- 
ing the protection of any foreign power. The French 
government acknowledged the service thus rendered 
by Goepp by creating him a member of the Legion of 
Honor. Goepp died at Paris June 21, 1855. Besides 
his immense pastoral work, Goepp did a great deal of 
literary labor. He wrote, besides numerous pamph- 
lets and funeral discourses, Precis de la doctrine chre- 
tienne exposie par le texte de V Ecritare Sainte (in col- 
laboration with Boissard, Paris, 1815, 8vo): — Prieres h 
V usage du culte domestique , suivies des exercices et pre- 
paration a la sainte C'ene (same, Paris, 1821, 12mo): — 
PHneipes de la Religion chretienne , h r usage des ecoles 
elementaires (Paris, 1826, 12 mo) : — Discours sur le noni 
et le but de la Societe de la Morale chretienne (Par. 1834, 
8 vo), etc. See Villenave, Notice sur J.-J. Goepp. — Iloe- 
fer, Naur. Biog. Gbierale , xx, 949 sq. 

Goering, Jacob, a Lutheran minister, was born in 
York County, Pa., Jan. 17, 1755. His father was a 
farmer, and had designed his son for the same occupa- 
tion, but, as the youth showed promising talents and 
hopeful piety, his father consented to his becoming a 
minister of the Gospel. He studied theology with Dr. 
Helmuth, and in 178G became pastor of the Lutheran 
Church at York, Pa. Here he continued to labor un- 
til his death in 1807. Mr. Goering was regarded as 
an extraordinary man, a profound scholar, and an elo- 
quent preacher. Nothing could check his ardor in the 
prosecution of his studies, or divert him from his pur- 
pose. In the pulpit he would often electrify his aud- 
ience, and sway them at his will. It was his practice 
to present to his people systematic doctrinal instruc- 
tion, always accompanied with a pointed application 
and an earnest appeal. On the afternoon of the Lord’s 
day, in connection with the catechetical exercise, he 
examined the whole congregation on the subject of the 
morning’s discourse. Although he wrote much, he 
published very little — only two small works on Bap- 
tism and one on Methodism. II is MSS. contained dis- 
cussions of theological questions, inquiries into the 
Oriental languages, and translations from the Arabic 
poets, but these valuable papers, with all his letters, in 
compliance with his directions in his last illness, were 
committed to the flames. (M. L. S.) 

Goerres, Johaxx Joseph vox, an eminent Ger- 
man Roman Catholic writer, was born Jan. 25, 1776, at 
Coblentz, and educated at the gymnasium at that place. 
In early life he was involved in politics, and in 1798 he 
set up a Republican newspaper, the “ Rotke Blatt.” 
Being sent on a deputation to Paris in 1799, he saw 
French “ freedom” under Bonaparte, and became dis- 
gusted with it. In that year he gave up his journal, 
and devoted himself to the study of medicine, and af- 
terwards to philosophy and natural science. In 1802 
appeared his Aphorismen iiber Kunst (Aphorisms on 
Art); in 1805, Exposition der Physiologic (Physiolo- 
gy) and Glauhe and Wissen (Faith and Knowledge). 
In 1806 he went to Heidelberg, and lectured on Phys- 
ics there till 1808, when he returned to Coblentz. 
1*10 lie published Mythengeschichte der Asintischen 
II (It (Mythology of the Asiatic World, Heidelberg, 
8vo). In 1814 he again entered the political field 
against the French as editor of the Rkeinischer Mer- 
hur (The Rhenish Mercury), a journal which stirred 
the whole public mind of Germany. It was prohib- 
ited by the Prussian government in 1816 — a strange 
reward for the services it had rendered.' In 1819 he 
had to take refuge in Strasburg, in consequence of 


1 publishing Deutschland und die Revolution , in which he 
pleaded for the liberal party of Germany. He after- 
wards published a number of political works of the 
| same vein, and tinged with mysticism. In Strasburg 
lie was surrounded with Roman Catholic influences, and 
began to despair of reforming society by politics. In 
1825 lie accepted the professorship of history in the 
new University of Munich, and there he spent the re- 
mainder of his days. In 1836-42 appeared bis Christ- 
liche Mystik (Christian Mysticism, Ratisbon, 4 vols. 
8vo). During the conflict of the Prussian government 
and the archbishop of Cologne he wrote, in the interest 
of the ultramontane party, Athanasius (Ratisbon, 1837, 
4 editions), and Triarier (Ratisbon, 1838). He wrote 
several other works in the interest of Roman Cathol- 
icism, and died January 27, 1848. Goerres was a 
prominent adherent of the first philosophic system of 
Schelling, but lie found in the abstruse speculations 
of German philosophy no elements adequate to con- 
tent his restless spirit of investigation. He was then 
swept away by that current of conservative Roman- 
Catholic restoration ism, which, in the early part of the 
present century, carried a number of German politi- 
cians, historians, and poets into the bosom of the Church 
of Rome. Like most of them, Goerres never regarded 
Romanism as it appears in the light of history, but in- 
vested it with all the brilliant features and colors of 
the ideal religio-political society which he had previ 
ously conceived in his own mind. Still, under the in- 
fluence of his former studies, be went down to the deep 
grounds of mysticism to discover there a light in the 
darkness, which lie had found besetting the sources of 
all sciences. He persuaded himself that he had made 
there a great discovery in finding new and wonderful 
relations between the fables and myths of paganism 
as a shadow, and Roman-Catholic Christianity as the 
full truth ; between the myriads of mysteries in all 
sciences, and the Roman-Catholic doctrine as a key to 
disclose them. At the beginning and end of every 
science he posted a Roman Catholic dogma as a watch- 
man ; by it he measured all the manifold inventions 
of our age, boldh r pretending that everything true in 
them came from and pointed to a u Catholic” truth ; 
and then he called upon the youths of his Church to 
rewrite from this stand-point the history of every sci- 
: ence, since it had been too long monopolized and dis- 
I figured by Protestant erudition. All this, set forth in 
mystic, self-confident, and passionate language, could 
not fail to attract general attention on the part of his 
coreligionists. The influence of Goerres was so much 
the greater, as he made himself, at a critical moment, 
also the political champion of the Roman Catholic in- 
terests, principally through the “ Ifistorische-politische 
Blatter ” of Munich, a periodical edited, although not 
under bis name, yet under bis guidance and con- 
trolling superintendence. In one thing, however, 
Goerres was greatly disappointed. Tie found many 
readers, hearers, and admirers, but only a very few 
disciples. They could not master the sense of their 
teacher’s words ; a bad omen, indeed, for bis anticipa- 
ted dominion over the literature of the world. The 
first volume of his collected works ( Gesammelte UerFc, 
herausg. von Marie Goerres') appeared at Ratisbon in 
j 1854. Sec Meth. Quart. Rev. Jan. 1855, p. 146; Sepp, 

I Joseph von Goerres, cine Skizze , etc. (Ratisbon, 1848); 
Ilaneberg, Zur Erinnerung an J. v. G. (Munich, 1848) ; 
Heinrich, J. v. G., ein Lebensbild (Frankf. 1867) ; Hist. 
Polit. Blatter, t. xxvii ; Briihl, Geschichte d. kathol. Lit - 
eratur Dent schlaiuls (Leips. 1854); Hoefcr, Nonv. Biog. 
Gbierale, xx, 957 ; Herzog, Real-EncyUop. v, 224 sq. 

Goertner, Jonx Petek, a minister of the Luther- 
an Church, was born April 26, 1797, at Canajoharie, 
N. Y. He was graduated at Union College in 1822, 
the Reformation m of Luther being bis commencement 
exercise. For a time be prosecuted his studies at 
Hart wick Seminary under the direction of professor 
Hagelius, and then received private instruction from 


GOESCHEL 


913 


GOG 


Dr. Christian Schaeffer, of New York City, whom he | 
aided in his pastoral work. He was licensed to preach 
by the New York Ministeriitm in 1824, and, after per- 
forming extensive missionary labor among the desti- 
tute Lutherans in the northern and western counties 
of the state and in Canada, he accepted a call to Johns- 
town, N. Y. He was loved and venerated not only by 
his own people, but by all who witnessed the results 
of his earnest labors, and the salutary influence he was 
exercising. His career was a brief one. lie died 
when only thirty-two years of age of pulmonary dis- 
ease. The impress of his life and efforts in the sanc- 
tified members of believing and loving hearts will de- 
scend to children and children’s children. He left a 
valuable IMS. Journal of six Months ’ Residence at Rome , 
and Visit to interesting Cities in Europe. (M. L. S.) 

Goeschel, Karl Friedrich, a German writer on 
philosophy, was born in 1784 at Langensalza. After 
studying law at Leipsie he became judge in Langen- 
salza, and in 1818 published a history of that tov r n. 
In 1844 he received an appointment in the ministry of 
justice as “Geheimcr Oberrcgierungsrath,” from 1845 
to 1848 he was president of the consistory of Magde- 
burg. In 1848 he withdrew from the public service 
and lived in retirement at Naumburg, -where he died, 
Sept. 22, 1862. Ho at first endeavored (Aphorismen 
iiber Nichtidssen nnd absolut. ) ] 'issen, 1829) to show the 
agreement of the Hegelian philosophy with Christian- 
ity, also to refute Strauss from this stand-point (. Bd - 
tnige zur specul. Philosophic , 1838) ; but gradually he 
joined more and more the party of the Confessional 
Lutherans. He conducted the judicial proceedings 
against Wislieenus, Uldieh, and the Friends of Light 
(q. v.), and in 1848 had to leave Magdeburg in conse- 
quence of the excitement of the people against him. 
He had previously tendered his resignation because 
the government had allowed the Free Congregation 
of Magdeburg the use of one of the Protestant church- 
es of the city. Goeschel v r rote several works on Dante 
which are highlv valued. — Herzog, ReaUEncyldopddie , 
xix, 5G7. (A. J. S.) 

Goettingen, a tow-n of Prussia, with 12,674 inhab- 
itants (in 1864). It is the seat of a celebrated German 
university (Georgia Augusta), which v’as founded in 
1733 by king George II. ofEngland, and opened in 1737, 
and which numbered, in 1868, 106 teachers and 805 stu- 
dents. The library of the university contains over 
3G0,000 volumes and 5000 MSS. Among the best- 
known theological professors of the university belong 
Gieseler (q. v.), Lueke (q. v.), and Ewald. See Piit- 
ter, Versuch einer akadem. Gelehrfengesch. der Universi- 
tdt Gottingen (2 vols. Goett. 1765-88 ; continued by 
Saalfeld, ilamb. 1820; and by Ostcrley, Goett. 1838). 
(A. J. S.) 

Goetze, Georg Heinrich, a German writer, 
was born at Leipzig, Aug. 11, 1667. In 1687 lie passed 
M.A. at the University of Leipzig, and in 1690 became 
Protestant pastor of Bury, in the duchy of Magdeburg. 
In 1702 lie became superintendent of the churches of 
Lubeck, in which office he continued until bis death, 
March 29, 1729 (according to others, April 25,1728). 
He left over one hundred and fifty works, mostly on 
literary or historical questions. The most important 
are, De Vigiliis paschalibus veterum ehrist ianortim (Lpz. 
1687, 4to) : — De A rehidiaconis reteris Ecclesice (Leipzig, 
1687, 4to) : — De dnbiis A thannsii Scriptis (Lpz. 1689, 
4to): — De Lntheranismo D. Bernardi (Dresden, 1701, 
4to), in which he attempts to prove that St. Bernard 
preached the same doctrines as Luther: — Parallelismus 
Judev proditoris et Ro?nance Ecclesice (Lubeck, 1706, 4to) : 
— Elogin Germanorum quorundam Theologonim (Lub. 
1709, 4to): this work contains eighty-four biographical 
sketches ; etc. — Ilocfer, Nonv. Blog. Gin. xxi, 62 sq. 

Goetze, Johann Melchior, a German divine, 
was horn in Ilalberstadt Oct. 16, 1717, and studied at 
Jena and Halle. He was for nine years (1741-50) as-J 
111— M M M 


sistant preacher at Aseherslehen, was then called to 
Magdeburg, and finally became pastor of St. Catharine, 
at Hamburg, in 1755. He was an orthodox Lutheran, 

I and attacked especially the semi-infidel writings of 
sneli men as Lessing, Goethe, Sender, etc. He died 
May 19, 1786, leaving behind him more than sixty 
works, the most remarkable among which are, Von 
des llerrn Christi hochivur digem Abendmuhl (1757): — 
Theol. Untersuch. d. Sittlichk. der Deut. iSchaubuhne (2d 
edit. 1770), against the latent neologism of Scldosser 
and Alberti : — Exercitatio liistorico-theologica de patrum 
primitive Ecclesice fdiciori successu in projliganda gen- 
tium superstitione quam in conjirmanda doctrina Christi- 
ana (Ilalle, 1738, 4to): — Gedanken if. d. Betrachtung von 
der Bcstimmung des Menscken (Halle, 1748, 8vo) : — Ver- 
theidigung des richfigen Begnjfs v. d. Avferstthung der 
Todten , gegen Basedow (Hamburg, 17 64, 4to), etc. H is 
autobiography was published in 1786 (8vo). See F. 
L. Hoffmann, Ilamb. Biblioph. iv ; Serapeum, 1852, 
No. 21 a, 22 ; Thiess, Gelehrt. Ilamb. Deutsch. Biblioth- 
eca, xvii, 615-629; Lessing, Mendelssohn , Risbcck und 
Goetze (Offenbach, 1787, 8vo) ; Warhafte Nachricht v. d. 
Leben des M. Gotze (Hamb. 1786, 8vo). — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. v, 226 ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxi, 64 sq. 

Goffine, Leonard, a Homan Catholic priest, was 
born at Cologne in 1648, joined in 1669 the order of 
the Premonstratenses in the abbey of Steinfeld, la- 
bored many years as a priest at Oberstein and Coer- 
feld in Westphalia, and died August 11, 1719. He is 
the author of a devotional w'ork (ChHstkathol . Unter- 
Hchts und Erbauungsbnch') which has passed through 
a very large number of editions and is still in common 
use. There are new revised editions of the work by 
Steck (Tubingen, 9th ed. 1869), and by Diez (2 vols. 
Wurzburg, 1864). (A. J. S.) 

Gog (Heb. id. 5i3 ; Sept, and N. T. Fwy, but F ovy 
in 1 Chron. v, 4; Yulg. Gog}, tlie name of two men, 
but whether they have any connection is doubtful. It 
also occurs in the Samaritan and Sept, for Agag, in 
Numb, xxiv, 7, apparently for the sake of specialty, 
tradition (Mislina, Shabb. 118) making the Messianic 
time to be distinguished by an antecedent struggle 
w ith Gog, as the Apocalypse does the millennium. See 
also Hamon-gog. 

As to the signification of Gog, it appears to mean 
mountain, i. e. Caucasus (Persic koh, Ossetic gliogh , i. e. 
mountain; and even the classical name “Caucasus” 
originated in Koh-Kaf ), since Caucasus was the chief 
seat of the Scythian people. The hardening of the 
last sound (It) into g ( gog frem kch) seems to have ta- 
ken place early, and when the name had already be- 
come that of a people, the other names, Magog, Agag 
(Samaritan Agog, gentile Agagi, Phccnie. Agog) also 
arose. Another explanation from the Pelilvi koka, 
“moon” (see Grabschrift des Darius, p. 64), because 
they prayed to the moon, is improbable. A Shemitic 
etymology is also possible. From the reduplicated 
form X3>*3 (from the root K3, whence S3, a roof), in 
tlie sense of “ to he high or overtopping S“3 might sig- 
nify a mountain or summit (compare Arabic juju, breast 
of a ship, i. e. something heightened). Figuratively, 
this stem w ould mean gigantic, great of stature, power' 
ful, warlike (cognate with of Isa.xviii, 2); comp. 

Sanskrit he, to he mighty, kari (in tlie Vedas, Persic 
ketv), king, modern Persian kav, warlike or valiant ; in 
which sense the Amalekite name Agag or Agog, the 
Heb. name Gog, and the Pham. Agog in the story of 
Ogyges, may he taken. In Gen. xiv, 1 Sjunmachus 
has taken V3, Goy, i. c. heathen, for S^3, Gcg, and 
therefore translates it by “ Scythians.” — Fiirst. Ileb. 
Lex. s. v. 

1. Son of Shemaiah, and father of Shimei, and one of 
the descendants (apparently great-great-grandson) of 
Reuben (1 Chron. v, 4). B.C. post 1856. Most copies 
of the Sept., -however, read, very different names here. 


GOGERLY 


914 


GOING 


2 . In Ezekiel Gog is ( 1 .) the name of a mixed race j 
d\velling*in the extreme north, comprehended by the 
Greeks under the name of the Scythians ; thence trans- 
ferred (2.) to the centre and representative of their 
race, i. e. their king (chap, xxxviii, 39). Gog eomes 
forth from the distant north (xxxviii, 15; xxxix, 2), 
the prince of Rosh, Mesheeh, and Tubal (apparently 
also of Siras), with his army of cavalry (xxxviii, 15), 
inarching against the people of Israel, where he is mi- 
raculously encountered (xxxviii, 17-23) and annihila- 
ted (xxxix, 1-8). In the later tradition which sprang 
from Ezekiel’s description, Gog along with Magog rep- | 
resents the mixed population of the north, the Scythi- 
ans, Caucasians, etc. (3.) Gog is the name of the 
country of the people Gog, i. c. of the Scythians ; but 
this only in the somewhat modified language of the I 
Apocalyptic seer (Rev. xx, 8, I\5y, together with I\Ia- 
ywy), as it has become a geographical name in Arabic 
likewise; and this corresponds with the assertions of 
other Oriental authors, in whose traditions this people 
occupy an important place, as the name of a country 
(see D’Herbelot, Bib I. Or. p. 528). — Fiirst, s. v. 

Interpreters have given very different explanations 
of the terms Gog and Magog ; but they have generally 
understood them as symbolical expressions for the 
heathen nations of Asia, or more particularly for the 
Scythians, a vague knowledge of whom seems to have 
reached the Jew’s in Palestine about that period. Thus 
Josephus (Ant. i, G, 3) has dropped the Hebrew word 
Magog, and rendered it by -kvOcu ; and so does Je- 
rome, w’hile Suidas renders it by lltpocit — a difference 
that matters but little in the main question, since Eku- 
Oat , in the ancient authors, is but a collective name 
for the northern but partially-known tribes (Cellarins, 
Kotit. ii, 753 sq.) ; and, indeed, as sueh a collective 
name, Magog seems also to indicate in the Hebrew the 
tribes about the Caucasian mountains (comp. Jerome 
on Ezek. ibid.'). Bochart ( Plial . iii, 13) supports the 
opinion of Josephus, though by but very precarious 
etymologies. According to Reinegge (Descrip, of the 
Caucasus, ii, 79), some of the Caucasian people call 
their mountains Gog, and the highest northern points 
A/agog. The Arabians are of opinion that the descend- 1 
ants of Gog and Magog inhabit the northern parts of 
Asia, beyond the Tartars and Sclavonians, and they 
put Yajuj and Majuj always in conjunction, thereby 
indicating the extreme points of north and north-east 
of Asia (Bayer, in Comment. Acad. Petrop. i). Nor are 
there wanting interpreters who understand by the Gog 
of Revelations the anti-Christ, and by the Gog of Eze- 
kiel the Goths, who invaded the Roman empire in the 
5th century of the Christian asra. (See Danderstad, 
Gog et Magog , Lips. 1GG3; Zcitschr. f.wissensch. Theot. 
18G2, p. 111.) In the Apocalypse these names appear 
to symbolize some future barbarian or infidel enemy 
that is to arise against Christianity (Stuart’s Comment. 
ad loc.). — Kitto, s. v. See Magog. 

Gogerly, Daniel John, a Wesleyan Methodist 
missionary and scholar, w r as born in London in August, 
1792, and at fourteen united with the Wesleyan Meth- 
odist Society. He showed signs of remarkable talent, 
and at an early age became a local preacher. In 1818 
he wras sent to Ceylon to take charge of the Weslevan 
mission press at Colombo. In 1822 he entered the 
regular missionary service, and was one of the first 
missionaries to preach extempore in Cingalese. He 
devoted himself earnestly to the study of the languages 
of the country, especially the Pali, which is, to the ! 
Buddhist, what Sanscrit is to the Brahmin. He was 
the first European who gave any critical or scientific 
study to this dialect. In 1834 he was stationed at 
Madura, where he bad special opportunities to study 
Pali under learned native priests. He arranged about 
15,000 w’ords for a dictionary, and succeeded in hav- 
ing copies made of all the. sacred bool^s, with their 
glosses. This copy is now in the possession of the 1 
M esleyan mission, lu 1838 Mr. Gogerly became chair- 


man of the mission, and afterwards general superin- 
tendent. The government appointed him one of the 
Central School Commission of Ceylon. In 1822 he 
had beeome one of the translators for the British and 
Foreign Bible Society, and the Cingalese version is 
largely due to his labors. Every word of all the edi- 
tions of the Bible printed by the society passed under 
his eye as editor and corrector. Among his most im- 
portant literary labors were contributions to the Jour- 
nal of the Royal Asiatic Society, and to other periodi- 
cals, in illustration of the Pali literature of Buddhism. 
He was vice-president of the Ceylon branch of the 
Royal Asiatic Society. As a polemic work against 
Buddhism, he published Christidni Pragnyapti ; the Ev- 
idences and Doctrines of the Christian Religion : in Cin- 
galese (Colombo, Wesleyan Mission Press, 18G2). A 
native gentleman offered fifty dollars for a Buddhist 
refutation of this work, but it never has appeared. Mr. 
Gogerly died September G, 18G2. Both in England 
and France, he was recognised as the master of Pali 
literature. 1 1 is writings on the subject are to be col- 
lected, it is said, and published in Paris. — London Quar- 
terly Review , April, I8G3, art. v. 

Goguet, Antoine-yves, a French jurisconsult, 
was born at Paris Jan. 18, 171G, and became counsel- 
lor to the parliament of Paris. He applied himself 
closely to literature, and especially to historical stud- 
ies. His name is chiefly preserved by his great work 
Origine des Lois , des Arts , et des Sciences , chez les An- 
ciens Peuples (3 vols. 4to, Paris, 1758, in which he 
was assisted by his friend Fugere). It treats the his- 
tory of civilization among the Assyrians, Babyloni- 
ans, Egyptians, Phoenicians, and the early Greeks, in 
vol. i; and in vol. ii, the period from the death of Ja- 
cob to the establishment of monarchy among the He- 
brew’s, with the usages, etc. of the Lydians and Phryg- 
ians, with the states of Greece and the people of 
Crete. The third volume carries the subject down to 
the time of Cyrus, and upon the same plan as the oth- 
er two. Goguet adds also dissertations on ancient 
coins ; on the astronomical periods of the Chaldfleans ; 
on the antiquities of the Babylonians, Egyptians, and 
Chinese; on Sanclioniatho ; and on the authenticity 
and antiquity of the book of Job. Goguet died in 
1758. His work has passed through several editions 
in France, of w’hich the last is that of Paris, 1809, 3 
vols. 8vo. There is an English translation, Origin of 
Laws , etc. (Lond. 1775, 3 vols. 8vo). — English Cyclope- 
dia ; llocfer, Xouv. Bioy. Generale , xxi, 75. 

Goi'm is thought to be the proper name of a peo- 
ple in northern Palestine (DY*, Goyiin , Josh, xii, 23; 
Sept. Fwf //ijVulg. gentes, A.Y. “nations”), whose king 
lived at Gilgal (q. v.). A similar designation is em- 
ployed also in Gen. xiv, 1 respecting Tidal (q. v.), 
“king of nations” (Sept. tSrvij, Ynlg. gentes). It is, 
how r ever, the universal term for Gentiles (q. v.). 

Going, Jonathan, D.D., an influential Baptist 
minister. w r as born in 1786, and graduated at Brown 
University in 1809. He was licensed to preach w hile 
a member of college, and pursued the study of theol- 
ogy under the direction of Dr. Messer, then president 
of the college. Dr. Messer’s orthodoxy was not above 
suspicion, and Mr. Going became unsettled in bis doc- 
trinal views for a time, but afterwards and finally be- 
came solidly grounded in “the doctrines of the Refor- 
mation.” He w’as ordained in 1811, and settled at 
Cavendish, Yt. At tins time, out of forty-five Bap- 
tist ministers in that state, he was the only one who 
had been liberally educated, and had an extensive in- 
fluence. He w T as called in 1815 to Worcester, Mass. 
Here his labors were the means of building up a large 
and efficient church. He took an active interest in 
public education, and aided in founding the Newton 
Theological Institution. A journey, in 1831, into what 
was then “the West,” awakened his interest in home 
missionary enterprises. The American Baptist Home 


GOLAN 


915 


GOLD 


Missionary Society was formed the following year, and 
Dr. Going was appointed corresponding secretary. 
After live } r cars’ successful service, he accepted a call 
to the presidency of Granville College, Ohio, now Den- 
ison University. His administration of the college j 
did much to give it a substantial foundation and to in- 
sure its healthful growth. lie died in 1844. He was 
strong, active, indefatigable, and his whole energy w r as 
kindled by a passion for usefulness. (L. E. S.) 

Go'lan (Heb. Golan', "(bis, exile accord, to Gesen., 
but circle accord, to Fiirst ; Sept. FauAwi/; once Ga- 
lon, *pba, “keri” at Josh, xxi, 27, Sept. PwXdi'), a 
city of liash an (Deut. iv, 23) allotted out of the half 
tribe of Manasseh east to the Gershonitc Levites (Josh, 
xxi, 27 ; 1 Chron. vi, 71), and one of the three cities 
of refuge east of the Jordan (xx, 8). We find no fur- 
ther notice of it in Scripture; and though Eusebius I 
and Jerome say it was still an important place in their 
time ( Onomast . s. v. YavXdiv, Gaulon ; Belaud, Palcest. \ 
p. 815), its very site is now unknown. The word is 
recognised in the present Jaulan, mentioned by Burek- 
hardt (Syria, p. 28G) as giving name to a district lying 
east of the lake of Tiberias, and composed of the an- 
cient Gaulonitis, with part of Bashan and Argob (see 
also Robinson’s Researches, iii, 308, 312 ; Append, p. 149, | 
1G2). It is indeed clear that the Gaulonitis of the 
later Jewish history must have included part of the 
more ancient Bashan, if Golan gave name to the prov- 
ince, seeing that Golan was certainly in Bashan. The 
city itself may have been situated on tell el-Feras , 
which, although destitute of ruins, is the most promi- 
nent part of the Jebel Ileish that principally consti- 
tutes the modern district. Some have supposed that 
the village of Naioa, on the eastern border of Jaulan, 
around which are extensive ruins (see Porter, Ilamlb. 
for Syr. and Palest.'), is identical with the ancient Go- 
lan ; hut for this there is not a shadow of evidence; 
and Xawa, besides, is much too far to the eastward. 

Some difficulty has been suggested as arising from 
the fact that the Judas whom Josephus (Ant. xviii, 1, I 
1) calls a Gaulonite is called by Luke (Acts v, 37) a 
Galilaean. This is the more remarkable, as Josephus 
elsewhere (Mar, ii, 20, 4) carefully distinguishes Gal- 
ilee and Gaulonitis. Yet he himself elsewhere calls 
this very Judas a Galila?an (Ant. xviii, 1,0; xx, 5, 2 ; 
War, ii, 9, 1). It is, from this, probable that Judas had 
a double cognomen, perhaps because he had been born 
in Gaulonitis, but had been brought up or dwelt in 
Galilee ; as Apollonius, although an Egyptian, yet was, 
from his place of residence, called Blind ins (see Ivui- 
nol, in Act. v, 37). See Judas (the Galie.ean). 

The city of Golan is several times referred to by Jo- 
sephus (TavXarij, War, i, 4, 4, and 8); he, however, 
more frequently speaks of the province which took its 
name from it, Gaulanitis (r avXavlrtc). When the 
kingdom of Israel was overthrown by the Assyrians, 
and the dominion of the Jews in Bashan ceased, it ap- 
pears that the aboriginal tribes, before kept in subjec- 
tion, but never annihilated, rose again to some power, 
and rent the country into provinces. Two of these 
provinces at least were of ancient origin [see Tracho- 
xjtis and Hauran], and had been distinct principal- 
ities previous to the time when Og or his predecessors 
united them under one sceptre. Before the Babylo- 
nish captivity Bashan appears in Jewish history as 
one kingdom ; but subsequent to that period it is spo- 
ken of as divided into four provinces— Gaulanitis, Tra- 
chonitis, Auranitis, and Batanaia (Josephus, Ant. iv, 6, 
3, and 7, 4; i, G, 4; xvi, 9, 1 ; War, i, 20, 4; iii, 3, 1 ; 
iv, 1, 3). It seems that when the city of Golan rose 
to power it became the head of a large province, the 
extent of which is pretty accurately given bv Jose- 
phus, especially when his statements are compared 
with the modern divisions of Bashan. It lay east of 
Galilee and north of Gadaritis (Gadara, Josephus, 
War, iii, 3, 1). Gamala, an important town on the 


eastern bank of the Sea of Galilee, now called El-Husn, 
and the province attached to it, were included in Gau- 
lanitis (War, iv, 1, 1). But the boundary of the prov- 
inces of Gadara and Gamala must evidently have been 
the river Hicromax, which may therefore be regarded 
as the south border of Gaulanitis. The Jordan, from 
the Sea of Galilee to its fountains at Dan and Csesarea- 
Philippi, formed the western boundary (War, iii, 3, 5). 
It is important to observe that the boundaries of the 
modern province of Jaulan (the Arabic form of the 
Hebrew *515, from which is derived the Greek rVtu- 
Xavine) correspond so far with those of Gaulanitis ; 
ive may therefore safely assume that their northern 
and eastern boundaries are also identical. Jaulan is 
bounded on the north by Jedur (the ancient Iturseal, 
and on the west by the Hauran [q. v.]. The principal 
cities of Gaulanitis were Golan, Hippos, Gamala, Ju- 
lias or Bethsaida (Mark viii, 22), Seleucia, and Sogane 
(Josephus, War, iii, 3, 1, and 5 ; iv, 1, 1). 

The greater part of Gaulanitis is a flat and fertile 
table-land, well watered, and clothed with luxuriant 
grass. It is probably to this region the name Mishor 
(fYO’^'C) is given in 1 Kings xx, 23, 25 — “the plain” 
in which the Syrians were overthrown by the Israel- 
ites, near Aphek, which perhaps stood upon the site of 
the modern File (Stanley, App. § G ; Porter, Handbook 
for Syr. and Pal. p. 425). The western side of Gau- 
lanitis, along the sea of Galilee, is steep, rugged, and 
bare. It is upwards of 2500 feet in height, and when 
seen from the city of Tiberias resembles a mountain 
range, though in reality it is only the supporting wall 
of the plateau. It was this remarkable feature which 
led the ancient geographers to suppose that the moun- 
tain range of Gilead was joined to Lebanon (Reland, 
p. 342). Further north, along the bank of the Upper 
Jordan, the plateau breaks down in a series of terraces, 
which, though somewhat rocky, are covered with rich 
soil, and clothed in spring with the most luxuriant 
herbage, spangled with multitudes of bright and beau- 
tiful flow f ers. A range of low, round-topped, pictu- 
resque hills extends southward for nearly twenty miles 
from the base of Hermon along the western edge of 
! the plateau. These are in places covered with no- 
j lde forests of prickly oak and terebinth. Gaulanitis 
was once densely populated, but it is now almost com- 
pletely deserted. Among the towns and villages which 
it once contained are still left the names of 127 places, 
all of which, with the exception of about eleven, are 
now uninhabited. Only a few patches of its soil are 
cultivated ; and the very best of its pasture is lost — 
the tender grass of early spring. The flocks of the 
Turkmans and el-Fudhl Arabs — the only tribes that 
remain permanently in this region — are not able to 
consume it; and the ’Anazeh, those “children of the 
East” who spread over the land like locusts, and 
“whose camels are without number” (.ludg. vii, 12), 
only arrive about the beginning of May. At that sea- 
son the whole country is covered with them — their 
black tents pitched in circles near the fountains, their 
cattle thickly dotting the vast plain, and their fierce 
cavaliers roaming far and wide, “their hand against 
every man, and every man’s hand against them.” 

For fuller accounts of the scener}', antiquities, and 
history of Gaulanitis, see Porter’s Handbook for Syria 
and Palest, p. 295, 424, 4G1, 531 ; Five Years in Damas- 
cus , ii, 250 ; Journal of Sac. Lit. vi, 292 ; Burekhardt’s 
T rav. in Syria, p. 277 ; Wilson, Lands of Bible, ii, 319 ; 
Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 12 sq. ; Schwarz, Palest. 
p. 220. — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. See Basiiak. 

Gold (Gr. XP v<7( 't‘ or XP vaiov i the last being prob. 
a diminutive of the former and more general term, and 
therefore expressing gold in a small piece or quantity, 
especially as wTought, e. g. a golden ornament, 1 Pet. 
iii, 3; Rev. xvii, 4 ; [xviii, 1G ;] or gold coin, Acts iii, 
G; xx, 33; 1 Pet. i, 18; but also used of the metal 
generally, Heb. ix, 4; 1 Pet. i, 7; Rev. iii, 18; xxi, 


GOLD 


910 


GOLD 


18, 21), the most valuable of metals, from its color, 
lustre, weight, ductility, ami other useful properties 
(Pliny, II. X. xxxiii, 19). As it is only procured in 
small quantities, its value is less liable to change than 
that of other metals, ami this, with its other qualities, 
lias in all ages rendered it peculiarly available for 
coin. There are six Hebrew words used to denote it, 
and four of them occur in Job xxviii, 15, 10, 17. 
These are : 

1. 3iH, zaliab ' , the common name, connected with 

tsahab' (to be yellow ), as Genn. geld, from gelb, 
yellow. Various epithets are applied to it, as “line” 
(2 Chron. iii, 5), “refined” (1 Chron. xxviii, 18), 
“pure” (Exod. xxv, 11). In opposition to these, 
“beaten gold” (^JTr T) is probably mixed gold; 
Sept. iXarog ; used of Solomon’s shields (1 Kings x, 
10). In Job xxxvii,22 it is rendered in the A.V. “fair 
weather;” Sept. id(f))] \pvaavyovvra (comp. Zcch. iv, 
12). The corresponding Chald. word is HH*, dehcib' 
(I>an. ii, 32 ; iii, 1, 5, 7). 

2. “wD, segor' (Job xxviii, 15), elsewhere as an ep- 
ithet, sagur' (Sept, i cetptXiov'), either from its 

compactness , or as being inclosed or treasured, i. e. 
fine gold (1 Kings vi, 20; vii, 49, etc.). Many names 
of precious substances in Hebrew come from roots sig- 
nifying concealment, as *p -Ip'S (Gen. xliii, 23, A. V. 

treasure”). 

3. 73, paz\ pure or native gold (Job xxviii, 17 ; 
Psa. xix, 10; xx, 3; cx, 127; Prow viii, 19; Cant, 
v, 11, 15; Isa. xiii, 12; Lam. iv, 2; invariably “fine” 
[once “pure”] gold), probably from T7D, pazaz', to 
separate. Kosenmtiller (Alterthumsh. iv, 49) makes it 
come from a Syriac root meaning solid or massy ; but 

(2 Chron. ix, 17) corresponds to TStt’S (1 Kings 
x, 18). The Sept, render it by XiOag ripiog , \pvaiov 
dnvpov (Isa. xiii, 12 ; Theodot. thn^dor ; comp. Time, 
ii, 13; Pliny, xxxiii, 19, obruss(t). In Psa. cxix, 127, 
the Sept, render it roiraZiov (A.V. “fine gold”); but 
Sehleusner happily conjectures to 7rciZiav, the Hebrew 
word being adopted to avoid the repetition of \pvaog 
(Thes. s. v. tottciZ ; Hesych. s. v. 7 TtiZior'). 

4. betsar ' (Job xxxvi, 19, fig. of riches), or 
"113, be'tser , gold earth, or a mass of raw ore (Job 
xxii, 24; Sept. iiTrvpo v ; A.V. “ gold as dust”). 

The poetical names for gold are : 

5. CT3, he' them (also implying something concealed 
or separated, Job xxviii, 10, 19; xxxi, 24; Psa. xlv, 
9; Prov. xxv, 12 ; Cant, v, 11 ; Lam. iv, 1 ; Han. x, 
5; Sept, xpvaiov ; and in Isa. xiii, 12 XiOog 7r oXvri- 
X)jr). 

0. “prn, e7iurwte' = “dug out” (Prov. viii, 10, 18), 
a general name (Prov. iii, 14; xvi, 1G ; Zcch. ix, 3) 
which has become special (Psa. Ixviii, 13, where it 
cannot mean gems, as some suppose, Bochart, Ilieroz. 
ii, 9). Michaelis connects the word with the Greek 
Xprrrog. 

Gold was known from the very earliest times (Gen. 
ii, 11). Pliny attributes the discovery of it (at Mount 
Pangajus), and the art of working it to Cadmus (II. 
X. vii, 57); and his statement is adopted by Clemens 
Alexandrinus (Strom at. i, 303, ed. Pott.). It was at 
first chieily used for ornaments, etc. (Gen. xxiv, 22) ; 
and although Abraham is said to have been “very 
rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold” (Gen. xiii, 2), 
yet no mention of it, as used in purchases , is made till 
after his return from Egypt. Coined money was not 
known to the ancients (e. g. Homer, II. vii, 473) till a 
comparatively late period ; and on the Egyptian tombs 
gold is represented as being weighed in rings for com- 
mercial purposes (comp. Gen. xliii, 21). No coins are 
found in the ruins of Egypt oj- Assyria (Layard's Xin. 
ii, 418). “Even so late as t lie time of David gold was 1 
not used as a standard of value, but was considered I 


merely as a very precious article of commerce, and was 
weighed like other articles” (Jalin, Bill. Arch. § 115; 
comp. 1 Chron. xxi, 25). 

Gold was extremely abundant in ancient times (1 
Chron. xxii, 14; Nah. ii, 9; Dan. iii, 1); but this did 
not depreciate its value, because of the enormous quan- 
tities consumed by the wealthy in furniture, etc. (1 
Kings vi, 22; x, passim; Cant, iii, 9, 10; Esth. i, G; 
Jer. x, 9; comp. Homer, Od. xix, 55; Herod, ix, 82). 
Probably, too, the art of gilding was known extensive- 
ly, being applied even to the battlements of a city 
(Herod, i, 98; and other authorities quoted by Layard, 

ii, 204). Many tons of gold were spent in the build- 
ing of the Temple alone, though the expression plen- 
teous as stones (2 Chron. i, 15) may he considered as 
hyperbolical. It is, however, confirmed by the history 
of the other Asiatic nations, and more especially of 
the Persians, that the period referred to really abound- 
ed in gold, which was imported in vast masses from 
Africa and the Indies (lleeren, Ideen , i, 1, 37 sq.). 
The queen of Sheba brought with her (from Arabia 
Felix), among other presents, 120 talents of gold (2 
Chron. ix, 9). 

The chief countries mentioned as producing gold 
are Arabia, Sheba, and Ophir (1 Kings ix, 28; x, 1 ; 
Job xxviii, 10; in Job xxii, 24 the word Ophir is used 
for gold). Gold is not found in Arabia now (Niebuhr’s 
Travels , p. 141), but it used to be (Artemidor. ap. Stra- 
bo, xvi, 3, 18, where he speaks of an Arabian river 
\pi]y/ta y pc ffo 5 Kciratyepwv'). Diodorus also says that 
it was found there native (a7rupo)') in good-sized nug- 
gets (fiioXctnia'). Some suppose that Ophir was an 
Arabian port to which gold was brought (compare 2 
Chron. ii, 7 ; ix, 10). Other gold-hearing countries 
were Uphaz (Jer. x, 9; Dan, x, 5), Parvaim (2 Chron. 

iii, C), and (at least primevally) Havilah (Gen. ii, 
11). No traveller in Palestine makes any mention 
of gold except Dr. Edward I). Clarke. At the lake 
of Tiberias, he observes, “ Native gold was found here 
formerly. Wc noticed an appearance of this kind, hut, 
on account of its trivial nature, neglected to pay prop- 
er attention to it, notwithstanding the hints given by 
more than one writer upon the subject.” However, 
for every practical purpose, it may be said that Pales- 
tine has no gold. It is always spoken of by the Jew- 
ish writers as a foreign product. As gold was very 
common, relatively, in Egypt at a very early date, 
much of that in the hands of the early Hebrews was 
probably obtained thence (Exod. xii, 33; xxxii, 2, 4; 

1 xxxviii, 24). 

Motallurgic processes are mentioned in Psa. lxvi, 
10; Prov. xvii, 3; xxvii, 21; and in Isa. xlvi, G the 
trade of goldsmith (compare Jitdg. xvii, 4, C^U) is al- 
luded to in connection with the overlaying of idols 
with gold-leaf (Uosenmuller’s Minerals of Scrip)turc , p. 

! 4G-51). — Smith, s. v. See Goldsmith. 

Gold, in the Scriptures, is the symbol of great value, 
duration, incorruptibility, and strength (Isa. xiii, 12; 
Lam. iv, 2 ; 2 'Pirn, ii, 20; Prov. xviii, 11 ; Job xxxvi, 
19). 1 n Dan. ii, 38, the Babylonian empire is a “head 

of gold,” so called on account of its great riches ; and 
Babylon was called by Isaiah, as in our version, “the 
golden city” (xiv, 4), hut more properly “the oxact- 
ress of gold.” In Eccles. xii, G, some explain the ex- 
pression “or the golden bowl be broken” of the human 
head or skull, which resembles a bowl in form. In 
Lev. iv, 4, “tlie elders,” and ix, 7, “the locusts, haci 
on their heads crowns of gold.” In the costume of 
the East, a linen turban with a gold ornament was 
reckoned a crown of gold, and is so called in the lan- 
guage of Scripture (Lev. viii, 9). Gold denotes spirit- 
ually the redeeming merits of Christ (llev. iii, 18; “ I 
counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that 
thou mayst be rich”), though others interpret it of 
being rich in good works before God. In 1 Cor. iii, 
12, it seems to denote sincere believers, built into the 


GOLDEN CALF 


917 


GOLDSMITH 


Christian Church, who will stand the fiery trial. — 
Wemyss, Symbol. Diet. s. v. See Metal. 

Golden Calf (!"t2S"2 e / gel massekah',a steer- 

image, Exod. xxxii, 4, 8; Deut. ix, 16; Neh. ix, 19, 
lit. a calf, a molten image, and therefore massive, not 
a mere wooden idol plated with gold), an idolatrous 
representation of a young bullock, which the Israelites 
formed at Mount Sinai (Exod. xxxii, 3 sq. ; compare 
Psa. evi, 19; Acts vii, 39 sq.), interdicted by Jehovah 
(Hengstenberg, Pentai. i, 159); and eventually, in the 
time of Jeroboam I of the kingdom of Israel, erected 
into a national object of worship (1 Kings xii, 28 sq. ; 
2 Kings x, 29 ; comp, xvii, 16 ; Iios. viii, 5 sq. ; x, 5 ; 
Tobit i, 5) at Ilethel and Dan (q. v.). See Image. 
The symbol was undoubtedly borrowed from Egypt 
(comp. Ezek. xx, 7, 8 ; Acts vi, 39 ; see Philo, ii, 159 ; 
Hengstenberg, Pentat. i, 156 sq.), where living bul- 
locks, Apis (q. v.), as a living symbol of sins (Plu- 
tarch, Isid. 33) in Memphis (Herod, iii, 28; Diod. Sic. 
i, 21 ; Strabo, xvii, 805), and Mnevis (q. v.) as a rep- 
resentation of the sun-god [see Egypt] at Heliopolis 
(Diod. Sic. i, 21 ; Strabo, xvii, 903), were objects of 
w orship (see Jablonsky, Panth. xEgypt. i, 122 sq. ; 258 
sq. ; Creuzcr, Symbol, i, 480 sq.). One of these tw o, 
possibly Apis (Lactant. Instit. iv, 10; Jerome, in JIos. 
iv, 15 ; comp. Spencer, Leg. Pit. Jhb. I, i, 1, p. 32 sq. ; 
AVitsii /Egypt. II, ii, p. 61 sq. ; Selden, De diis Syr. I, 
iv, p. 125 sq. ; Lengcrke, Km. p. 461), but more prob- 
ably Mnevis (Wilkinson, Anc. Eg. 2d ser. ii, 97), w r as 
the model of the golden calf which the Israelites in 
the desert, and perhaps Jeroboam afterwards, set up. 
On the contrary, Philo (Opp. i, 371), with whom Mill 
(Dissert. Sacr. p. 309 sq.) agrees, asserts that the Isra- 
elitish calf was an imitation of the Egyptian Typhon ; 
but this view w r as dictated rather by theological prej- 
udices than historical considerations. Nevertheless, 
the bovine symbol is found in the ornamentation of 
the Temple (Ezek. i, 10 ; 1 Kings vii, 29), and is one 
of wide prevalence in antiquity (Movers, Phonic, p. 
373 sq.). See Cherubim. 

How Moses was able to consume the golden calf 
with fire (Cpb), and reduce it to powder On:;, pul- 
verize), as stated in Exod. xxxii, 20, is difficult to say ; 
for although gold readily becomes weak and to some 
extent friable under the action of fire, yet it is by no 
means thus burnt to such a degree as to be reducible 
to dust, and be susceptible of dissolution in drink. 
Most interpreters, e. g. Iiosenmuller (Schol. ad loc.), 
think of some chemical process (which Moses may 
have learned in Egypt, see Wilkinson, Ancient Egypt. 
abridgm. ii, 186 sq.), by which gold may have been cal- 
cined, and so have been triturated as a metallic salt. 
Others (Ludwig, De modo quo comminiitus est a Moses 
vitulus aureus , Altdorf, 1745) believe that Moses beat 
the fire-checked gold into leaves, and then ground 
these into fine particles in a mill, or filed the melted 
gold into dust (scobis avrea ; comp. Josephus, Ant.v iii, 
7, 3; see Bochart, Ilieroz. i, 363). The difficulty lies 
in the double procedure, and in the expression “burn- 
ed with fire” tyV£^), which does not seem ap- 

plicable to a chemical, but rather to a mechanical pro- 
cess. — Winer, i, 644. See Calf, Golden. 

Golden City (rniii*?, madhebah'; Sept. *Vt- 
ff7roucVf<m/c, Vulg. tributum ), a term applied as an ep- 
ithet of Babylon (Isa. xiv, 4), and occurring nowhere 
else. Some derive it from the Aramaean gold. 

as a verb-form (in the Hip. part, fem gold-making, 
i. e. exactrcss of gold, a not inapt emblem of the impe- 
rial mart (parallel hemistich grinding') ; or else = 
a heap or treasury of gold ("2 pref. formative of place). 
So Gesenins prefers with hesitation (Thes. Ileb. p. 322 
b), after Kimchi, Aben-Ezra, etc. Others (so Burst, 
Heb. Lex. s. v.), following the Targums, Sept., Aqui- 
la, Syriac, and Arab, of Sadias, prefer to read 


marhebah' , in the sense of oppression , from ra° 

hab' , to scare (compare Isa. iii, 5, w f here nfVl occurs in 
parallelism with tTM). See Babylon. 

Golden Legend (Lat. Aurea Legenda ), a collec- 
tion of legendary accounts of saints, long very popu- 
lar, in almost all the European languages. It was 
compiled by a Dominican, James de Voragine, also 
written Vragine and Varagine, about A.D. 1230. It 
has 177 sections, each giving an account of . a particu- 
lar saint or festival. It is of no historical value. 

Golden. Number, the number in the ecclesiasti- 
cal calendar by w r hicb the age of the moon, and conse- 
quently the time of Easter, is determined. Easter-day 
being the first Sunday after the full moon, which hap- 
pens upon or next after the 21st of March, to deter- 
mine the time of Easter, it is only necessary to find 
out the precise time of the above full moon. As at 
the end of nineteen years the moon returns to have 
her changes on the same days of the solar year mul 
of the month on w hich they happened nineteen years 
before, it follows that by the use of a evcle consisting 
of nineteen numbers, the various changes of the moon 
for every year may be found out without the use of 
astronomical tables. The numbers of this cycle, from 
their great usefulness, were usually written in the cal- 
endar in letters of gold: hence the name, golden num- 
ber. Another account of the origin of the name is 
that the metonic cycle of niypteen years [see Chro- 
nology] was originally engraved in letters of gold on 
marble columns. The rule for finding the golden 
number for any particular year is, “J dd 1 to the number 
of years , and divide by 19 ; the quotient gives the number 
of cycles , and the remainder gives the golden number fur 
that year; and if there be no remainder , then 19 is the 
golden number , and that gear is the last of the cycle ." — 
Farrar, Ecclcs. TKct. s. v. 

Golden Rose, a rose set in precious stones, con- 
secrated l>y the pope, and sent to crowmed heads and 
others whom the pope delights to honor. This rose 
w'as first sent in 1366 by Urban V to Joan, queen of 
Sicily. The pope consecrates one every year on the 
4th Sunday in Lent. The golden rose was sent to the 
queen of Spain just before her downfall in 1868. 

Golden Wedge (CTT, k-cthem ', Isa. xiii, 12 ; a 
poetical term, fine gold , as elsewhere rendered). See 
Gold. 

Goldsmith (r'nili, tsoreph', Neh. iii, 8, 32 ; Isa. 
xl, 19; xli, 7 ; xlvi, 6 ; a founder or finer , as elsewdiere 
rendered), a melter of gold (i. q. matsreph ', “ re- 

1 finer,” Mai. iii, 2, 3). Sec Gold. In Neh. iii, 31, the 
word so rendered pE^) is rather a proper name, Zor- 
rni (q. v.). “ The use of gold for jew’clry and vari- 

ous articles of luxury dates from the most remote ages. 
Pharaoh having ‘arrayed’ Joseph ‘in vestures of fine 
linen, put a gold chain about his neck and the jew- 
els of silver and gold borrowed from the Egyptians by 
the Israelites at the time of their leaving Egypt (out 
of wdiich the golden calf w r as afterwards made), suffice 
to prove the great quantity of precious metals wrought 
at that time into female ornaments. It is not from 
the Scriptures alone that the skill of the Egyptian 
goldsmiths may be inferred; the sculptures of Thebes 
and Bcni-IIassan afford their additional testimony, and 
the numerous gold and silver vases, inlaid work, and 
jewelry, represented in common use, show r the great 
advancement they had made in tills branch of art. At 
Beni-Hassan, the process of washing the ore, smelting 
or fusing the metal with the help of the blow -pipe, and 
fashioning it for ornamental purposes, weighing it, and 
taking an aceount of the quantity so made up, and 
other occupations of the goldsmith, are represented ; 
but, as might he supposed, these subjects merely suf- 
fice, as they were intended, to give a general indica- 
tion of the goldsmith’s trade, without attempting to 


GOLGOTHA 


918 


GOLGOTHA 


describe the means employed” (Wilkinson, Anc. Egyp- 
tians, abridgment, ii, 138 sq.). See Metallurgy. 



however, that neither Eusebius, nor Cyril, nor Jerome, 
nor any of tiie earliest historical writers ever speak of 
Golgotha as a hill. Yet the 
expression must have become 
current at a very early peri- 
od, for the Bordeaux pilgrim 
describes it in A. I). 333 as 
Monticidus Golgotha ( Itinera - 
rium Jlierosol. , ed. Wessel., p. 
533). Dr. liobinson suggests 
that the idea of a mount origi- 
nated in the fact that a round- 
ed rock or monticule existed 
on the place where, in the be- 
ginning of the 4th century, 
tradition located the scene of 
the crucifixion (Bib. lies, ii, 
373). 

All the information the Bi- 


Ancient Egyptiau Goldsmiths. 

1, 2, and 3, 4, are wringing out the water from the gold in a bag, b , d; a. c, frames sup 
porting the bag while draining ; f, f/, are articles of jewelry on a frame, e; h , a box con- 
taining implements, ?, and perhaps a crucible, k. The hieroglyphics (consisting of the °* Golgotha maybe stated in 
bowl in which the metal was washed, the eloth through which it was strained, and the a few words. Christ was 
dropping of the water , united) read u goldsmith” or “ worker in gold.” crucified 4 4 without the gate” 

. _ „ . . . - _ _i (Heh. xiii, 12), “nigh to the 

o. gotha ( l oXyo^-rt, for Aram. E--K' bulged- c it v ” (John xix, 20), at a place called Golgotha (Matt. 
ta [comp. Ileb. HPS55, 2 Kings ix, 35], the skull, as be- xxvii, 33), and apparently beside some public thor- 
ing globular; the Syr. version has gogultii), the vulgar oughfare (xxvii, 30) leading to the country (Mark 
name of the spot where Jesus was crucified, and inter- xxv, 21). The tomb in which he was lain was hewn 
preted by the evangelists as meaning “the place of a out of the rock (Mark xv, 4G), in a garden or orchard 
skull,” and hence interpreted by the equivalent term (vJttoc), at the place of crucifixion (John xix, 41, 42). 
Galvary (Matt, xxvii, 33; Mark xv, 22; John xix, Neither Golgotha nor the tomb is ever afterwards men- 
!<)• tioned by any of the sacred writers. No honor seems 

Three explanations of this name have been given: to have been paid to them, no sanctity attached to 
(1.) A tradition at one time prevailed (see Jerome in them during the apostolic age, or that which immedi- 
Ephes. v, 14 ; Epist. xlvi ; De Sanct. Loch ) that Adam ately succeeded it. It is not till the beginning of the 
was buried on Golgotha, that from his skull it derived 4th century that we find any attempt made to fix the 
its name, and that at the crucifixion the drops of position of, or attach sanctity to Golgotha. Eusebius 
Christ’s blood fcdl on the skull and raised Adam to then informs ns that the emperor Constantine, ‘‘not 
life, whereby the ancient prophecy quoted by Paul in without divine admonition,” resolved to uncover the 
Eph.v, 14 received its fulfilment — “Awake, thou Adam holy tomb. lie states that wicked men had covered 
that sleepest” — so the old versions appear to have run it over with earth and rubbish, and had erected on the 
— “and arise from the dead, for Christ shalt touch 1 spot a temple of Venus. These were removed, and 
thee” (t7ri-ilmr(Tci for i— upavati). See the quotation in the tomb and Golgotha laid bare. A magnificent 
Belaud, Palcest. p. 860; also Baewulf, in Early Travel- church was built over them, and consecrated in A.D. 
levs, p. 39. The skull commonly introduced in early ' 335 ( 1 'it. Constantin, iii, 2G-33). There can be little 
•pictures of the crucifixion refers to this. (2.) Jerome doubt that the present Church of the Sepulchre occu- 
py 8 elsewhere (in Matt, xxvii, 33) that it was a spot ' pies the site of that built by Constantine. The only 
where executions ordinarily took place, and therefore writer who seriously impugns their identity is Mr. 


abounded in skulls; but, according to the Jewish law, 
these must have been buried, and therefore were no 
more likely to confer a name on the spot than any 
other part of the skeleton. In this case, too, the Greek 
should be tottoc; Kociviiov, “of skulls,” instead of koo- 
vton, “of a skull,” still less a “skull,” as in the Ara- 
maic, and in the Greek of Luke. If this had been 
the usual place of execution, there is no reason whv 
all the evangelists should have been so explicit in 
the name. That it was a well-known spot, however, 


Fergusson (Essay on the ancient Topography of Jerusa- 
lem , London, 1817), who asserts that Golgotha was on 
Mount Moriah, and that the building now called the 
Mosque of Omar, or Dome of the Bock, is the church 
erected by Constantine over the Holy" Sepulchre. Be- 
neath its dome is a projecting rock with a cave in it; 
this, he says, is the real tomb. The arguments on 
which his theory rests are mainly architectural, and 
arc unquestionably forcible ; but his topographical and 
historical argument is a complete failure. lie sa}'s 


has been inferred by many from the way in which the site was transferred at the time of the Crusaders; 
it is mentioned in the gospels, each except Matthew but for this there is not a shadow of evidence. Any 
having the definite article — “the place Golgotha” — one who has examined on the spot the topography of 
“ the place which is called a skull” — “the place (A.V. Mount Moriah, and who has closely inspected the ma- 
omits the article) called of, or after, a skull.” That it sonry of the massive wall which surrounds the whole 
was the ordinary spot for such purposes lias been ar- 1 of the Ilaram area, must see that this theory is unten- 
gued from the fact that, to those at least who carried able. The only point to he settled is, whether the 
tlie sentence into effect, Christ was hut an ordinary church of Constantine stood on the real Golgotha, 
criminal; and there is not a word to indicate that the Eusebius is our first witness, and he lived 300 years 
soldiers in “leading him away” went to any other after the crucifixion. His story is repeated with some 
than the usual place for what must have been a com- changes, and numerous embellishments, by snbse- 
mon operation. But the act of crucifixion was so quent writers (Socrates, H. E. i, 17 ; Sozom. II. E. ii, 


common a punishment among the Homans, especially 
upon Jews, that it seems to have been performed al- 
most anywhere. See Crucifixion. (3.) The name 
has been hold to come from the look or form of the 
?pot itself, bald, round, and sjsull-liko. and therefore a 
mound or hillock, in accordance with the common 
jduasc “Mount Calvary.” It must be remembered, 


1 ; Thcodoret, I fist. Eccl. i, 18). That the spot is now 
marked by the Church of the Sepulchre was the al- 
most universally accredited tradition down to the last 
century; for though many were struck bv the singular 
position of the church, yet they got over that difficulty 
by various means (Bobinson, Bib. Res. i, 408). The 
first who openly opposed the tradition was Korte, a 


GOLIATH 


919 


GOLIATH 


German traveller who visited Jerusalem in 1788. Tie 
was followed by Dr. Clarke (Travels), Sebolz (Reise, 
and De Golgathce Situ), Robinson, To bier (Golgatka), 
and others. The identity of Golgotha has been main- 
tained by Yon Ka umer (Palastina), Krafft (die Topo- 
graphic Jerusalems ), Tischendorf (Reise, ii, 17 sq.), 
Schulz (Jerusalem, p. 59 sq., 9G sq.), and especially 
Williams in his Holy City . The tradition that fixes 
the site of Golgotha upon that of the present Church 
of the Holy Sepulchre is not older than the 4th cen- 
tury, being first mentioned by Eusebius, and attribu- 
ted to the miraculous discovery of the holy cross by 
the empress Helena. Yet, in the absence of any other 
tradition respecting a site which could not well have 
been forgotten, and in the difficulty of finding any 
other position answering to the requirements of the 
case, we may well coincide in the belief that it repre- 
sents the true locality (see Strong’s Harm, and Expos, 
of the Gosp. Append, i, p. 4, etc.). The question most- 
ly depends upon the course of Josephus’s second wall, 
and the position of Acra as determined by that of the 
valley of the Tvropoeon. Dr. Robinson’s views of the 
relative position of these leading portions of Jerusa- 
lem seems to be unnatural and untenable, being ap- 
parently influenced by an excessive jealousy of all tra- 
ditionary evidence. lie therefore decides against the 
identity of the site of Calvary and the Holy Sepulchre 
(Bib. Researches, i, 408-51G). His arguments, however, 
are vehemently combated by 31 r. Williams (Holy City, 
ii, 13-Gi), and a long and bitter controversy has ensued 
(see the Bibliotheca Sacra for 1843, p. 154-202 ; 1S4G, 
p. 413-4G0, G05-G52; 1848, p. 92-9G). Dr. Robinson to 
the last maintained his former opinion (new ed. of Re- 
searches, i, 407-418 ; iii, 254-2G3). Other travellers are 
equally divided as respects the identity of these places, 
but it may be remarked that Dr. Robinson’s reasoning 
has failed to satisfy even German scholars of the im- 
possibility of this position of Golgotha. The evidence 
of locality to be gathered from the Gospel statements 
as to the scene of the tomb of our Lord is as follows: 
The palace of Pilate and the judgment hall stood at 
the north-west angle of the Haram area, where the 
house of the pasha still stands. There Jesus was con- 
demned, scourged, and mocked. Thence the soldiers 
“led him out” (31 ark xv, 20) to crucify him. They 
met a man called Simon “coming out of the country,” 
and compelled him to bear the cross. They brought 
him unto Golgotha, and there they crucified him. The 
passers by reviled him. His mother and some others 
stood by the cross (John xix, 25). “All his acquain- 
tance stood afar off beholding these things”(Luke xxiii, 
49). A combination of these statements of the evange- | 
lists shows that it lay just outside the walls of the city, 
opposite the tower of Antonia, and therefore probably 
at the north-w'est. See Jerusalem. The traditional 
Golgotha is now a little chapel in the side of the Church 
of the Sepulchre, gorgeously decorated with marble, 
and gold, and silver. The monks profess to show the 
hole in which the cross was planted, and a rent in the 
rock made by the earthquake ! (Porter, Hand-book for 
Syr. and Pal. p. 1GG; Williams, Holy City, ii, 22G sq.) 
— lvitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Plessing, Ueb. Gol- 
gotha u. Christi Grid ) (Hal. 1789) ; Scliolz, De Golgathce 
ct J. C. sepulcri situ (Bonn, 1825) ; Schultze, De vera 
causa nominis Golgatka (Nurnb. 1732) ; Themis, Gol- 
gotha el sanctum scpnlcrnm (in lllgcn’s Zeitschr.f. hist. 
Theol. 1842, iv, 3-34); Zorin, De Christi extra portam 
svppHcio (in his Opusc. ii, 193-7) ; Finlay, Site of the 
Holy Sepulchre (Lond. 1847) ; Ilerggren, Bibel nnd Jo- 
sephus ii. Jerusalem u.dus lleilege Grab, wider Robinson 
und ncuer Zionspilger (Lund, 18G2) ; Tobler, Golgotha, 
seiner Kirchen u. Klostcr (Berl. 1850). See Calvary. 

Goli'ath (Ileb. Golynth' , ; Sept. VoXiaS, Jo- 

sephus roMaZoc), a famous giant of Gath, who “morn- 
ing and evening for forty days” defied the armies of 
Israel; but was eventually slain by David, in the re- 


markable encounter, with a sling (1 Sam. xvii). B.C» 
10G3. Although repeatedly called a Philistine, he was 
possibly descended from the old Rephaim, of whom a 
scattered remnant took refuge with the Philistines af- 
ter their dispersion by the Ammonites (Dent, ii, 20, 21 • 
2 Sam. xxi, 22). Some trace of this condition may be 
preserved in the giant’s name, if it be connected with 
an exile, as thought bv Gesenius (Thes. Ueb . p. 
285). Simonis, however, derives it from an Arabic 
word meaning stout (Onom. s. v.) ; while Fiirst merely' 
indicates it as of Philistian etymology (Ueb. Lex. s. v.). 
Ilitzig (Gesch. u. Mythol. dcr Pkilist. p. 7G) regards it 
as merely = VavXevr)jg, i. e. sorcerer. His height was 
“six cubits and a span,” which, taking the cubit at 21 
inches, would make him 101 feet high. But the Sept, 
(at 1 Sam. xvii, 4) and Josephus (Ant., vi, 9, 1) read 
u four cubits and a span.” This will make him about 
the same size as the royal champion slain by Antimen- 
idas, brother of Aleams (u7ro\t'i7rovra filar pbr or 7 r«- 
X*ior citto TriftTnov, ap. Strabo, xiii, p. G17, with 3Iiil- 
ler’s emendation). Even on this computation Goliath 
would be, as Josephus calls him, avifp 7rapptyt0tara~ 
toc— a truly enormous man. (See 3Viehmannshausen, 
De armatura Gol. 3 r iteb. 1711.) After the victory Da- 
vid cut off Goliath’s head (1 Sam. xvii, 51 ; compare 
Herod, iv, G; Xenoph. A nab. v, 4, 17 ; Niebuhr men- 
tions a similar custom among the Arabs, Besckr. p. 
304), which he brought (ver. 54) to Jerusalem (proba- 
bly after his accession to the throne, Ewald, Gesch. iii, 

| 94), while he hung the armor in his tent. See Fight. 

I His sword was afterwards received by David in a great 
emergency from the hands of Ahimeleeli at Nob, where 
it had been preserved as a religious trophy (1 Sam. 
xxi, 9). See Giant. 

The scene of this famous combat (see Trendelenburg, 
De pngna Dav. cum Goliatko, Gedan. 1792) was the 
Valley of the Terebinth, between Shochoh and Aze- 
kah, probably among the western passes of Benjamin, 
although a confused modern tradition has given the 
name of Ain-Jahlad (spring of Goliath) to the spring 
of Harod, or “ trembling” (Stanley, Palest, p. 342 ; see 
Judg. vii, 1). See Elaii, Valley of. This modern 
name, hoavever, may rather be (= the spring of Gilead) 
a reminiscence of Gideon’s exploit (Judg. vii, 3). See 
Gilead. The circumstances of the combat (q. v.) are 
in all respects Homeric, free from any of the puerile 
legends which Oriental imagination subsequently in- 
troduced into it; as, for instance, that the stones used 
by David called out to him from the brook, “By our 
means yon shall slay the giant,” etc. (Hottinger, Hist. 
Orient, i, 3, p. Ill sq.). The fancies of the Rabbis are 
yet more extraordinary. By the 31ohammcdans Saul 
and Goliath are called Taluth and Kcilath (Jalut in Ko- 
ran, ii, 131 sq.), perhaps for the sake of the liomoiote- 
leuton, of which they are so fond (Hottinger, I list. 
Orient, i, 3, p. 28). Abnlfeda mentions a Canaanite 
king of the name Jalut (Hist. Anteislam , p. 17G) ; and, 
according to Ahmed al-Fassi, Gialout was a dynastic 
name of the old giant-chiefs of the Philistines (D’Her- 
! belot, Bill. Or. s. v. Gialout). In the title of the psalm 
J added to the psalter in the Sept, we find rig Act did 7rpog 
j ron VoXicic ; and although the allusions are vague, it 
is thought by some that this psalm may have been 
written after the victory. This psalm is given at 
length under David, p. G87 (see llilscher, Psa. centes. 
quinquages. prim, illustr., acced. vita Golicithi , Bautzen, 
1710). It is strange that we find no more definite al- 
lusions to this combat in Hebrew' poetry; but it is the 
opinion of some that the song now r attributed to Han- 
nah (1 Sam. ii, 1-10) w r as originally w’ritten really in 
commemoration of David’s triumph on this occasion 
(Thenius, Die Bucher Sam. p. 8; comp. Bertholdt, Einl . 

1 iii, 915; Ewald, Poet. Bucher des A. B. i, 111). See 
Psalms. 

In 2 Sam. xxi, 19, w'e find that another Goliath of 
I Gath, of whom it is also said that “the staff’ of his 


GOLIUS 


920 


GOMEI 


spear was like a weaver’s beam,” was slain by Elha- 
nan, also a Betlilehemite. St. Jerome (Qwest. Ihb. ad 
loe.) makes tlie unlikely conjecture that Elhanan was 
another name of David. The A.V. here interpolates 
the words ‘‘the brother of,” from 1 Chron.xx, 5, where 
this giant is called “ Lahmi.” See Stiebritz, Die Da - 
vidische Erlegung ties Goliath's (llalle, 1742). — Smith, 
s. v. See Elhanan. 

Golius, Jacobus, was bom at the Hague in 159G. 
After finishing his studies at the University of Ley- 
den, he was called to give instruction in the Greek lan- 
guage at Rochelle. In 1624 he became professor of 
the Arabic language, and in 1G29 also of mathematics 
at the University of Leyden. He died Sept. 28, 16C7. 
He brought out an edition of the New Testament in 
modern Greek. He also had the Confession of Faith 
of the Reformed Church of Holland, the Heidelberg 
Catechism, and the Liturgy translated into modern 
Arabic by an Armenian for circulation in the Levant. 
His principal work is his Lexicon Arab.-Latinum cum 
hut . Lat. It was first published in London, and sub- 
sequently at Leyden, 1653, in fol. See Glasius, Godge- 
leerd Nederland , i, 534 ; Bavle, Diet. hist, ct Crit. (J. P. 
W.) 

Golius, Petrus, brother of J. Golius, was brought 
up by his maternal uncle, Jan Ilemelaar, canon at 
Antwerp, in the Roman Catholic Church, in which he 
remained through life. He shared his brother’s fond- 
ness for Oriental studies. After spending several years 
in Palestine, he was appointed professor of Oriental 
languages at Rome, lie translated Thomas a Kem- 
pis’s work, De Imitatione Christ i, into Arabic, and la- 
bored on an edition of the Bible in the same language. 
At the age of seventy-four he Avent to convert the 
heathen on the coasts of Malabar, lie died at Surat. 
See Glasius, Godgeleerd Nederland , i, 536 ; Bayle, art. 
Hemelar. (J. P. W.) 

Gomar, Francis, an eminent Calvinistic divine 
and polemic, was born Jan. 30, 1563, at Bruges, and 
educated at Strasburg under John Sturmius, and at 
Neustadt, where the professors of Heidelberg found a 
refuge when Louis, the elector palatine, had banished 
them. In 1582 he came to England, and attended at 
Oxford the divinity lectures of I)r. John Bainolds, and 
at Cambridge those of Dr. William Whittaker, and at 
this latter university he was admitted to the degree 
of B.D. in 1584. The elector Louis dying in 1583, 
prince Casimir, his brother, restored the professors of 
Heidelberg, to which place Gomar returned from Cam- 
bridge, and spent two years there. In 1587 he became 
pastor of the Flemish church at Frankfort, and exer- 
cised the functions of that office until 1593. In 1594 
he was appointed professor of divinity at Leyden. 
Here he remained teaching quietly until 1G03, when 
lie became the zealous opponent of his new colleague 
Arminius. Anninius, as is well known, opposed, and 
Gomar defended, the peculiarities of Calvin, and in 
this controversy Gomar displayed a most violent, vir- 
ulent, and intolerant spirit, and endeavored by various 
publications to excite the indignation of the States of 
Holland against his rival. The combatants disputed 
before the States in 160x. See Arminius. On one 
of these occasions Barneveldt, in a short address to 
them, declared that he thanked God their contentions 
did not affect the fundamental articles of the Christian 
religion; Gomar replied that he “would not appear 
before the throne of God with Arminins's errors.” On 
the death of Arminius, Gomar, 1609, retired to Middle- 
burg, whence he was invited the University of 
Samnur to be professor of divinity, and four years after 
he exchanged this office for the professorship of divin- 
ity and Hebrew at Groningen. He attended the Syn- 
od of Dort in 1618, where he took an active part in 
the condemnation of the Arminians. See Dort. He 
visited Leyden in 1633 to revise the translation of the 
Old Testament, and died at Groningen Jan. 1G, 1641. 


His works were published at Amsterdam in 1645 (fol.) ; 
also in 16G4, Opera omnia theologica (Amsterd. fol.). 
See Bayle; Hook, Eccles. Biog. v, 332; Mosheim, Ch. 
Ilist. cent, xvii, pt. ii. ch. ii, § 11 ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate , xxi, 136 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 231. 

Gome. See Bulrush. 

Go'mer (Heb. id. vanishing, or peril, heat , i. 
e. passion ; Sept. IVt/icp and Vopip or Vu/up), the name 
of a man and of a race descended from him, also of a 
woman. 

1. The eldest son of Japheth (B.C. post 2514), son 
of Noah, and father of Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togar- 
mali (Gen. x, 2), whose descendants seem to have 
formed a great branch of the south-eastern population 
of Europe (Gen. x, 3 ; compare 1 Chron. i, 5). In the 
Scriptures, however, the people named Gomel* (men- 
tioned along with Togarmah in the armies of Magog, 
Ezek. xxxviii, C) imply rather an obscure and but 
vaguely-known nation of the barbarous north (Rosen- 
muller, Alterth. I, i, 235 sq.). The Jerusalem Targum 
renders Gen. x, 3 by African ; Arab. 7p~, 

Turk. Bochart ( Phaleg , iii, 81) identifies the name, 
on etymological grounds, with Phrygia (from to 
consume, and <ppuyia, from cppvytiv, to roast) ; Phrygia 
being, according to ancient testimony, a \iopa ivucttv- 
pioToi;, and part of it bearing the name of tear ate t kg v- 
fitrrj, or burnt (Strabo, xiii, 628 ; Diod. iii, 138). But 
to this it seems a fatal objection that the Phrygians 
formed only a branch of the Togarmians (Josephus, 
J?;f. i, 6, 1 ; Jerome, Queest. in Gen. x, 3), and there- 
fore cannot be regarded as the stem whence the To- 
garmians themselves sprang. The same objection ap- 
plies to the suggestion that Gomer is the German race 
(Talm. Yoma , 10 a); for this comes under Ashkenaz, 
a branch of Gomer. Wahl (Asien, i, 274) compares 
Gamir, the ancient name for Cappadocia, and Kaliscli 
(Comm, in Gen.) seeks to identify it with the Chomari , 
a nation in Bactriana, noticed by Ptolemy (vi, 11, § 6). 
Most of the interpreters take Gomer to be the ancestor 
of the Celta?, and more especially of the Cimmerii, 
Ki/i/dptoi (Herodotus, i, G, 15, 103), who were already 
known in the time of Homer (Odyss. xi, 14). To judge 
from t lie ancient historians (Herodotus, Strabo, Plu- 
tarch, etc.), they had in early times settled to the north 
of the Black Sea, and gave their name to the Crimea 
(from the Arab./jrow, bv transposition from the lleb.), 
the ancient Cliersonesus Taurica, where they left traces 
of their presence in the ancient names, Cimmerian 
Bosporus, Cimmerian Isthmus, Mount Cimmeriuni, 
the district Cimmeria, and particularly the Cimmerian 
Avails (Herod, iv, 12, 45, 100 ; yEsch. Prom. I "met. 729), 
and in the modern name Crimea. They forsook this 
abode under the pressure of the Scythian tribes, and 
during the early part of the 7th century B.C. they 
poured over the Avestern part of Asia Minor, commit- 
ting immense devastation, and defying for more than 
half a century the poAVcr of the Lydian kings. They 
Avere finally expelled by Alyattes, with the exception 
of a feAV Avho settled at Sinope and Antandrus. It 
Avas about the same period that Ezekiel noticed them 
as acting in conjunction Avitli Armenia (Togarmah) 
and Magog (Sevthia). The connection between Go- 
mer and Armenia is supported by the tradition, pre- 
served by Moses of C’horene (i, 11), that Gamir Avas 
the ancestor of the Ilaichian kings of the latter coun- 
try. After the expulsion of the Cimmerians from 
Asia Minor their name disappears in its original form ; 
but there can be little reasonable doubt that both the 
name and the people are to be recognised in the Cim- 
bri of the north of Europe, described by the classical 
writers sometimes as a German, sometimes as a Celtic 
race. The preponderance of authority is in favor of 
the latter (Sallust, Jug. 114; Floras, iii, 3; Appian, 
De Reb. 111. 4; Bell, (drill, i, 29 ; iv, 2 ; Diodor, v, 32 ; 
xiv, 114 ; Plutarch, Cam. 15 ; Mar. 25, 27 ; Dion. Cass. 


GOMORRAH 


921 


GOMORRAII 


xliv, 42; Justin, xxiv, 8; xxxviii, 3, 4); and the 
probability is that the Cimbri were Celtie, and of the 
same tribe as the Cymry of Britain (Prichard, Eastern 
Origin of the Celtic Nations, by Latham, p. 142 ; Lath- 
am, Germania of Tacitus , Epilegoni. p. clxv sq.). By 
the ancients the Cimmerii and the Cimbri were held 
to he one people ; the abodes of the latter were fixed 
during the Loman empire in the north and west of 
Europe, particularly in the Cimbrie Chersonese (Den- 
mark), on the eoast between the Elbe and Lhine, and 
in Belgium, whence the}'- had crossed to Britain, and 
oeenpied at one period the whole of the British isles, 
but were ultimately driven back to the western and 
northern districts, which their descendants still oc- 
cupy in tw’O great divisions, the Gael in Ireland and 
Scotland, the Cymry in Wales. The latter name pre- 
serves a greater similarity to the original Corner than 
either of the classical forms, the consonants being 1 
identical. The link to connect “Cyniry” w ith “ Cim- 
bri” is furnished by the forms Cambria and Cumber- 
land. The whole Celtic race may therefore be regard- 
ed as descended from Gomer, and thus the opinion of 
Josephus (Ant. i, G, 1), that the Galatians were sprung 
from him, may be reconciled with the view propound- 
ed (Michaelis, Supplem. p. 335 sq.). From the plaee 
Gomer occupies in the roll of nations in Genesis, it 
may be presumed that the people descended from him 
was one of the oldest, and this would fall in with the 
half-mythic character of the Cimmerii as they appear 
in Ilomer. It is plain also from Ezek. xxxviii, G that 
the race of Gomer was regarded by the Hebrew's as ' 
living to the far north of Palestine, and this accords 
exactly with the site assigned to the Cimmerii by He-* 
rodotus, who places them on the Caucasus, and repre- 
sents them as skirting the Euxine and coming down 
on Asia Elinor by way of Colchis, and across the river 
Ilalvs. If the Cimmerii and the Cimbri are identi- 
fied, and the latter be regarded as a Celtic-speaking 
people, the statement of Jerome that the Galata3 spoke \ 
a language not greatly differing from that of the Tre- 
veri ( Proleg . IJb. ii , ad Ep. ad Galatas ) may have an 
important hearing on the subject of the migrations of 
the original Gomerian stoek. — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. 
v. See Ethnology. 

2. The name of the daughter of Diblaim, a harlot 
who became the w ife or eoneubine (according to some, 
in vision only) of the prophet llosea (Hos. i, 3). B.C. 
cir. 725. 

Gomor'rah (Deb. AmoralT, prob. submer- 

sion ; Sept, y or rd To poppa, N. T. “Gomorrha”), 
one of the four cities in or near the vale of Siddim 
(Gen. x, 19 ; xiii, 10), apparently overwhelmed by the 
destruction which caused the Dead Sea (Gen. xix, 24, 
28). B.C. 20G4. See Siddim. Its king, Birsha, was 
one of those that joined battle w ith the forces of Che- 
dorlaomer, and in the rout Lot’s family became in- , 
volved until rescued by Abraham (Gen. xiv, 2, 8-11). I 
B.C. cir. 2080. The allusions in Scripture to the “cit- 
ies of the plain” appear to indicate that they stood | 
close together (Gen. xiii, 10; xiv, 8-11), and that they 
lay near the southern extremity of the present lake, 
for Abraham, on going to the brow of the mountain 
near Hebron, “looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, 
and all the plain” (Gen. xix, 28), and this he could 
not have done had they been situated further north. 
The battle between the eastern kings and the people 
of the plain took plaee “in the vale of Siddim, which 
is the Salt Sea” (Gen. xiv, 3). The phrase, however, 
is not quite decisive as to the precise position ; for, as 
Reland observes ( Paleest . p. 254), it is not stated that 
the five eities stood in the vale of Siddim, although , 
this perhaps may be inferred, and seems to be implied I 
in the name of Gomorrah. This city appears to have 
been next in importance to Sodom, as it is always 
mentioned second, and often these two of the four cit- 
ies alone are named, as types of impiety and wickcd- 


| ness (Gen. xviii, 20 ; Rom. ix, 29). What that atroc- 
ity was may be gathered from Gen. xix, 4-8. Their 
miserable fate is held up as a warning to the children 
of Israel (Deut. xxix, 23); as a precedent for the de- 
struction of Babylon (Isa. xiii, 19, and .Ter. I, 40), of 
| Edom (Jer. xlix, 18), of Moab (Zeph. ii, 9), and even 
of Israel (Amos iv, 11). By Peter in the N. T., and 
i by Jude (2 Pet. ii, G; Jude ver. 4-7), it is made “an 
' ensample unto those that after should live ungodly,” 
or “deny Christ.” Similarly, their wickedness rings 
as a proverb throughout the prophecies (see Deut. 
xxxii, 32; Isa. i, 9, 10; Jer. xxiii, 14). Jerusalem 
herself is there unequivocally called Sodom, and her 
people Gomorrah, for their enormities; just in the 
same w ay that the corruptions of the Church of Rome 
have caused her to he ealled Babylon. On the other 
hand, according to the N. T., there is a sin which ex- 
ceeds even that of Sodom and Gomorrha, that, namely, 
of which Tyre and Sidon, Capernaum, Chorazin, and 
Bethsaida, were guilty when they “repented not,” in 
spite of “the mighty works” which they had witness- 
ed (Matt, x, 15) ; and Mark has ranged under the same 
category all those who would not receive the preach- 
ing of the apostles (vi, 11). See Sodom. 

To turn to their geographical position, one passage 
of Scripture seems expressly to assert that the vale 
of Siddim had become the “salt,” or dead, “ sea” (Gen. 
xiv, 3), called elsewhere too the “sea of the plain” 
(Josh, xii, 3); the expression, however, occurs ante- 
cedently to their overthrow. Josephus (Ant. i, 9) 
says that the late Asphaltites, or Dead Sea, was form- 
ed out of what used to he the valley where Sodom 
stood ; but elsewhere he declares that the territory of 
Sodom was not submerged in the lake (ir«r, iv, 8, 4), 
but still existed parched and burnt up, as is the ap- 
pearance of that region still; and certainly nothing in 
Scripture would lead to the idea that they were de- 
stroyed by submersion (though they may have been 
submerged afterwards when destroyed), for their de- 
struction is expressly attributed to the brimstone and 
fire rained upon them from heaven (Gen. xix, 24 ; see 
I also Dent, xxix, 22, and Zeph. ii, 9; also Feter and 
Jude before cited). St. Jerome, in the Onomasticon , 
merely says of Sodom, “ eivitas impiorum divino igne 
eonsumpta juxta mare mortuum” (s. v. ^.otofia, Scdo- 
ma ; eomp. s. v. Toppopa, Gommora). The whole sub- 
ject is ably handled hv Cellarius (ap. Ugol. Thescnir. 
vii, dcexxxix-lxxviii), though it is not always neees- 
■ sary to agree with his conclusions. Among modern 
travellers, Dr. Robinson shows that the Jordan could 
not have ever flow ed into the gulf of ’Akabah ; on the 
, contrary, that the rivers of the desert themselves flow 
northwards into the Dead Sea. See Akabaii. This, 
added to the configuration and deep depression of the 
valley, serves in his opinion to prove that there must 
have always been a lake there, into which the Jordan 
flowed ; though he admits it to have been of far less 
extent than it now’ is, and even the whole southern 
part of it to have been added subsequently to the over- 
throw’ of tbe four eities, whieh stood, according to him, 
at the original south end of it, Zoar probably being sit- 
uated in the mouth of wady Kerah, as it opens upon 
the isthmus of the peninsula. In the same plain, lie 
remarks, were slime-pits, or wells of bitumen (Gen. 
xiv, 10) ; “ salt-pits” also (Zeph ii, 9); while the en- 
largement of the lake he considers to have been eaused 
by some convulsion or catastrophe of nature connected 
w ith the miraculous destruction of the cities— volcanic 
agency, that of earthquakes, and the like (Bibl. Res. ii, 
187-192, 2d cd.). He might have adduced the great 
earthquake at Lisbon as a case in point. The great 
difference of level between the bottoms of the north- 
ern and southern ends of the lake, the former 1300, the 
latter only 13 feet below 7 the surface, singularly eon- 
firms the above view (Stanley, S. § P. p. 287, 2d ed.). 
Pilgrims of Palestine formerly saw’, or fancied that 
they saw’, ruins of toivns at the bottom of the sea, not 


GOMORRIIA 


922 


GOOD 


far from the shore (see Maundrell, Early Travellers , p. 
•454). — Smith, s. v. ; Kitto, s. v. M. de Sauley is con- 
fident lie has discovered the remains of Gomorrah in 
certain ruins 'which he reports in a valley bv the name 
of Gumrar, on the X. AV. shore of the Dead Sea, just 
north of Ain el-Feshkah {Dead Sea , ii, 49) ; but Van de 
Velde makes light of this account {Narrative, ii, 115 
sq.), which, indeed, lacks confirmation, especially as it 
is generally believed that the sites of these cities are 
all buried under the southern shallow's of the lake. 
See Dead Sea. 

Gomo'rrha, the manner in which the name Go- 
morrah (q. v.) is written in the A. V. of the apocrv- 


bearers were called gonfaloniers. Some writers as- 
cribe to these the origin of the practice of earning 
banners in the Roman Catholic processions. 

Gonorrhoea. See Issue. 

Gonsalvi. Sec Consalvi. 

Gonzaga. See Aloysius of Gonzaga. 

Gonzalez (Gonzalo) de Berceo, Juan, the 
most ancient Spanish poet, was born in 119G at Avila, 
in Castile, entered the Benedictine order, and died in 
12GG. He is the author of poetical v'orks on the Muss, 
on Doomsday, on the Virgin Mary, on the Life of St. 
Dominic, etc. They are printed in Sanchez’s Colec- 


Gondulf, or Gundulf, a Xorman priest, was born 
in the neighborhood of Rouen in 1023. After entering 
the Church, he made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem in eom- 
pan y with the archd eacon Will iam , a f forwards arch bish- 
op of Rouen. On his return, being in danger of ship- 
wreek, he vowed to become a monk, and in 1059 he en- 
tered the convent of Bee, where he became intimate with 
Anselm. Lanfranc, prior of Bee, being in 1063 appoint- 
ed abbot of St. Stephen of Caen, chose Gondnlf for his 
coadjutor, and still retained him when called in 1070 to 


pecul- 
iar development of Spanish poetry. (A J. S.) 

Gonzalez, Tirso, a Spanish Roman Catholic the- 
ologian of the 17th century. Having entered the or- 
der of Jesuits, he became professor at the University 
of Salamanca, and was elected general of his order 
about 1G85. He opposed the doctrine of probabilism 
(q. v.), which was upheld by the casuists of the order, 
and affirmed that it originated not among the Jesuits, 
but among the Augustinians, one of whom, Michael 
Salonius (1592), was its author. According to Gon- 


the archbishopric of Canterbury. . Through his influ- j za lez, it was only in the year after it was promulgated 
enee Gondulf v\as created archbishop of Rochester by Salonius that it was adopted b} r the Jesuit Valen- 
Mareli 19, 1077, and restored that see to its former im- , t j a? aml developed in 1698 by Vasquez. While ad- 
poitance. After the death ot Lanfranc he administer- mitting that the doctrine was held by the majority of 
ed for four years the archbishopric of Canterbury, to tb e Jesuits, he pointed at Fernand Rebcllo, Paolo Corn- 
wall eh Anselm was then appointed. The pleasure of ] i te lo, an j Andrea Le Blanc {Camhdus Philoletes), who 
then meeting was soon disturbed bv difficulties occur- ) ia( j opposed it in their writings. Yet Gonzalez did 
ing between the new archbishop, William Rufus, and no t consider it obligatory for all the members of his 
Henr}’ i. Gondulf, while faithful to his Church and order to adopt his views: he permitted each one to fol- 
to lus friend, managed, however, to remain on good j ow his opinions and his interest . 
terms with both parties, and after king William’s I on the subject encountered so m 


death exerted himself to prevent civil war, and to se- 
cure the crown for Henry. The.-e services gave him 
great influence, which he used for the benefit of his 
diocese. He died at Rochester in 1108. Gondulf en- 


The work he wrote 
much opposition that it 
remained twenty-five years in MS. before being print- 
ed, and afterwards appears to have found but few' par- 
tisans among the Jesuits. Father Oliva, director of 
the Index, greatly opposed the book, notwithstanding 


joyed great reputation for learning: he devoted his . tI)e approbation given to it bv pope Innocent IX. The 
time largely to he correction of the text of the Vul- first e(litioll bore thc titIe ‘ r,mdamentwn Theohmw 
ga e version, lie was also renowned for his elo • , vioralis, ill est tractatus theolor/icm de ncto vso opinio- 
tjuence, n none o lus sermons are extant now. Of \ num probabilhm (Dillingen, 16S9; Naples, Home, I.y- 
Ins correspondence with Anselm there remains but one 


ons, Antwerp, 1694, 4to). The text of the latter edi- 


i . , . . . t . # UUG* iMI Ij \| Cl | b JLvli'2* iLUJ 

letter, which, with an epistle to the monks of Bee, is tions has l)een altere d in several passages, and the 
? vl We iav ® ° 7 . us ^ vri B n & s * See ) ita Gmululphi (in earlier ones have been destroyed. Gonzalez wrote also 
, \ U - t ”' fJ m sacrc .i) ’ /* sf ’ * e a * rance De Infillibilitate Romani Pontifieis in ehfniendis fidei ei 

' " ( ' inusa ^ l hst. de St.Ansehne ; lloefer, Aouv. m0 rum eontroversiis extra concilium generate (Rome, 
Biog. Generate, xxi, 196. — •■ J - — - ’ 

Gonesius, Peter {Conyza, GoniadzH, Goniondz- 
hi), one of the early Unitarians of Poland, was born in 


1689, 4to ; printed by order of Innocent IX, and sup- 
pressed by Alexander VIII) : — Manvductio ad conver- 

sionem Mahometanorum (Dillingen, 1680,4to): — Veritas 

Goniadz in 1525. His opposition to the doctrines of Religionis catholiccc demonstrata (Lille, 1G9G, 12mo). 
the Reformation in the early part of his public career See Dupin, Bibli. des Auteurs eeeUs. flu l~ me sieele (pt. 


won him the support of the Roman Catholics; but bav 
ing in 1554 undertaken a journey through Germany and 
Switzerland, he became imbued with the doctrines of 
Scrvetus, and on his return to Poland lie rejected all 
creeds except the Apostles’, and openly advocated Uni- 
t aria n ism. He declared himself against infant bap- 
tism also. Chiefly through his influence, the Reform- 
ed Church of Poland was divided in 15G5 into two par- 
ties, Trinitarians and Unitarians. See Sandii Bihli- 
f.theca Antitrin. p. 40 ; Fock, Dvr Soeiniamsmus (Kiel, 
1^47) ; Lukaszewiez, Gesckiehte d. reformirten Kirehen 
in Lithamn, ii, 69 (Lips. 1*48-50) ; Moslieim, Ch. Hist . 
iii, 228, note 12 ; Herzog, Real-Eneyhlop . v, 215 ; Kra- 
sinski, Reformation in Poland (Lps. 1841). 

Gonfalon, a large colored banner, cut at the bot- 
tom so as to leave pendant points. The name is applied 
principally to ecclesiastical banners, carried around to 
raise the vassals of a church lief to defend church 
property. The color was varied according to the char- 
acter of the patron saint of the church or monastery, 
e. g. red for a martyr, green for a bishop, etc. The 


iv) ; Jour, des Savants (1695, 1698) ; Richard et Giraud, 
Bibl. sacree ; Hoefcr, Nouv . Biog. Generate, xxi, 252. 

Good (Lat. bonum ) is variously defined by moral- 
ists, according to the nature of their ethical theories. 
The Stoic would define it to be that which is eiecording 
to nature ; the Epicurean, that which vicreases pleasure 
or diminishes pain; the Idealist, that which aeeords 
with the fitness of things ; the Christian theologian, that 
which accords with the revealed trill of God. So the 
philosophical schools give various and even contra- 
dictory definitions of the highest good (summum bo- 
nnm). Thus Aristippus placed it in pleasure in activ- 
ity ; Epicurus, in pleasure in repose ; Zeno, in tran- 
quillity of miml ; Kant, in well being conditioned on 
morality ; the Materialists, in self-love. 

Sehleiermacher states his views of the subject as 
follows: In ethics there are three fundamental con- 
ceptions — duty, virtue, good. Duty is the obligation 
of moral action ; virtue is the moral power of the 
agent ; the highest good is the objective aim of both. 
In the systems of Kant and Fichte, ethics is the doc- 


GOOD 


023 


GOOD FRIDAY 


trine of duty, and its development becomes simply a 
treatment of individual virtues. In opposing this 
view, Sclileiermachcr maintains that a system of mor- 
al precepts, or formulas of duty , even though it might 
embrace the whole life of man, could onty be applied 
in isolated cases and single acts, leaving the moral life 
as a whole still unexplained. It is only in a very lim- 
ited sphere that a moral agent acts alone, and without 
reference to other agents ; and liis virtue has relation 
to a general state of things, to produce which other 
agents co-operate. Schleiermacher charges the exist- 
ing ethical systems with making an unnatural schism 
between the law of action (duty) and the active power 
(virtue) on the one hand, and the resulting actions on 
the other hand ; and also with leaving entire spheres 
of human action, of unquestionably moral character, in 
the domain of adiapkora (things indifferent), instead 
of bringing them under the authority of moral law. 
To remedy these alleged confusions, Schleiermacher 
seeks for an organic principle of ethics, which shall be 
at once objective, systematic, and comprehensive. He 
finds it in the highest good , which can be completely 
apprehended, not in its relations to the individual meve- 
ly, but with reference to the human race as a whole. 
From this principle the whole sphere of ethics may be 
mapped, placing universal nature on the one hand, and 
the organizing reason (the universal reason of human- 
ity) on the other. In this theory Schleiermacher ex- 
pressly recognises the authority of Plato, who, in his 
Philebus investigated the “highest good.” Aristotle, 
in whom the idea of virtue was the highest, places the 
highest good in tvdaqiovia, individual happiness — not, 
however, in the Epicurean sense, but in the sense of 
KioriQ T(\tta£ ivkpyeta tzar dpirijv reXeiav, the work- 
ing out or realization of a perfect life through perfect 
virtue. 

In the further development of the history of ethics, 
so far as relates to the definition of the “ highest good,” 
•we must particularly notice the distinction (1) between 
the individual and the general, indicated in Plato and 
Aristotle, and carried to the greatest extent by Epicu- 
rus and the Stoics ; (2) the resulting distinction be- 
tween the objective and subjective, according to which 
the “highest good” is, on the one hand, a condition of 
man (e. g. Epicurean enjoyment , Stoical endurance ) ; or, 
on the other hand, a product of human activity, the 
end of humanity as a whole ; (3) the consequent moral 
theories of pleasure or of activity , according to the for- 
mer of which the “highest good” lies in enjoyment, 
while according to the latter it lies in moral activity. 
In the language of Christian theology, “the highest 
good” is the kingdom of God, which includes within it- 
self all ethical elements, the individual and the gen- 
eral, activity and happiness, theory and practice, means 
and end. The means of securing the “highest good” 
is to promote the advancement of that kingdom ; the 
end, the “highest good” itself, is the coining of that 
kingdom, to the individual, in his personal salvation; 
to the universal race, in the realization of the promise 
“God shall he all in all!” See Schleiermacher, Eth- 
ische Abhandlungen , in his Phil. Xachlassen, ii, 12, 13; 
Herzog, Real-Lncyklop. s. v. Ethik, Tugend. 

Good, John Mason, M, D., a physician and gen- 
eral scholar, was horn at Epping, England, May 25, 
17G4, and commenced practice as a physician in Lon- 
don, 1820. He was an indefatigable student and writ- 
er, and his learning was multifarious rather than pro- 
found. Besides a number of medical works, he pub- 
lished The Song of Solomon, in English verse , with notes , 
etc. (Loud. 1803, 8 vo) . — Memoirs of A lex. Geddcs, LL. D. 
(Loud. 1803, 8 vo) [see Gkddes] : — Lucretius, translated , 
uith notes (Loud. 1805-7, 2 vols. 4to) : — The Book of 
Job, newly translated , with notes (Lond. 1832, 8vo) : — 
The Book of Proverbs , translated (Lond. 1822, 8vo) : — 
The Book of Psalms, translated, just finished at the 
time of his death, Jan. 2, 1827. Dr. Good also contrib- 
uted largely to several periodicals, not only in medi- 


cal science, but in almost every branch of literature, 
“ The extent and variety of I)r. Good’s works are suf- 
ficient to indicate their character ; they evince great 
industry, with a retentive and orderly mind, and every 
mark of sincerity and piety ; hut they show that he 
was deficient in judgment, critical acumen, and per- 
sonal observation ; and his medical writings especial- 
ly are hence of far less value than the labor that must 
have been bestowed upon them might have given them, 
had it been better directed. But he seemed to have 
no suspicion of his unfitness for any literary task, and 
hence never hesitated to undertake any project, though 
most unsuited to his habits and requirements. Thus, 
although wanting every requisite qualification for such 
a duty, his overweening self-confidence led him not 
only to consent to edit the letters of Junius, hut to se- 
lect, merely from his own opinion of resemblance of 
style, other letters which had been published, under a 
great variety of names, in AVoodfall’s Advertiser, and 
without scruple assign them to the great unknown, to 
the utter confusion, as it has proved, of almost all sub- 
sequent investigations respecting the author of the Ju- 
nius letters, and judgment of his character and conduct. 
Dr. Good’s principal faculty seems to have been a fa- 
cility of acquiring languages: he had learned Latin, 
Greek, and French in his father’s school; while an ap- 
prentice he acquired Italian, and soon after commenced 
Hebrew. While engaged in the translation of Lucre- 
tius he studied German, Spanish, and Portuguese; and 
afterwards, at different times, Arabic, Persian, Bussian, 
Sanscrit, and Chinese. Of his knowledge of all these, 
evidence is presented in unpublished translations, in 
reviews of their literature, and in the constant refer- 
ences made to tlieir works in his medical and other 
writings. A biography of I)r. Good was published by 
his friend, Dr. Olinthus Gregory, in 1 *vol. 8vo.” In 
early life Dr. Good was a Socinian, but about 1817 he 
embraced fully the doctrine of the Trinity. He led 
an earnest, religious life, “ seen and known of all men.” 
See Jamieson, Cyclop, of Biography , p. 229; English 
Cyclopedia ; Allibone, Lictionary of Authors, i, 698. 

Good Friday, the sixth day of the week before 
Easter, called Good Friday in acknowledgment of the 
benelit derived from the death of Christ. Among the 
Saxons it was denominated Long Friday, perhaps in 
allusion to the length of the fast. 

(1.) In the earliest ages of the Church the day of 
our Lord’s crucifixion was religiously observed, not in- 
dependently, but as a part of the sacred season of Eas- 
ter, which was celebrated by Christians instead of the 
Jewish passover, in commemoration at once of the 
death and resurrection of Christ. Two terms were 
used to designate Good Friday and Easter-day, which 
had reference, in name at least, to the passover : 7 rdoya 
OTavpdxnpoy, and Tzd<j\a (ii'aoTuvqwv. passover of the 
crucifixion, and ]7assover of the resurrection . The day 
was observed as a strict fast. The usual acclamations 
and doxologies were omitted, and nothing but the most 
plaintive strains of music, such as the Kiptf i\h]<jor, 
etc., were allowed to be sung. No bell was rung. 
None bowed the knee in prayer, because thus the Jews 
reviled Christ. The kiss of charity was omitted, for 
Judas betrayed his Master with a kiss. The Lord's 
supper was celebrated ; but the elements were not con- 
secrated on this day, but on the day before. Commu- 
nion-tables and reading-desks were stripped of orna- 
ments ; and the gospel of St. John was read, because 
he was a faithful and true witness of our Lord’s pas- 
sion. In reference to the Jewish ritual, the day was 
sometimes called 7 raparrKtin), the preparation. 

(2.) In the Homan Church the day is celebrated with 
great care. “The Church in her whole office expresses 
the deepest mourning and compunction. The altars 
are naked, except at the priest’s communion, when the 
ornaments are black, and the crucifix is covered with 
a black veil till the prostration, after which it is left 
uncovered.” Instead of the ordinary mass, the “ Mass 


GOOD TIDINGS 


924 


GOODMAN 


of the Presanctified” is said, without the consecration 
of the Host. The sacrament, reserved the day before, 
is received in one kind only by the priest, who recites 
the Lord's prayer and a small part of the prayers of 
the mass. “ No others receive the holy communion 
except the priest who celebrates the divine office, and 
the sick in mortal danger of death, to whom it is ad- 
ministered by way of viaticum.” 

(3.) Among the Protestant churches Good Friday 
is observed as a fast, and by special services and pray- 
ers by the Church of England, the Lutherans, German 
Reformed, and many Methodists. — Coleman, Ancient 
Christianity , p. 516; Wheatly, Common Prayer, ch. v, 

§ 15 ; Butler, Feasts and Fasts, tr. vi, ch. v. 

Good Tidings. Sec Gospel. 

Good Works. See Works. 

Goode, William, a clergyman of the Church of 
England, rector of Allhallows the Great and Less, Lon- 
don, and later dean of Ilipon, died in 1868. He was 
a prominent and prolific writer of the Low-Church 
school. Among the best known of his works are: 
The Extraordinary Gifts of the Spirit (London, 1834) : — 
The Established Church (1834): — Tracts on Church- 
rates (1840) : — The Divine Rule of Faith and Practice 
(1842, 2 vols. ; 2d ed. 1853, 3 vols.), directed against 
the views of Dr. Pusev concerning the value of tradi- 
tion as a rule of faith : — Tract XC historically refuted 
(1845): — Doctrine of the Church of England as to the 
Effects of Baptism in the case of Infants (1849) : — Vindi- 
cation of the Church of England on the Validity of the 
Orders in the Scotch and Foreign non-Episcopal Churches 
(3 pamphlets, 3d ed. 1852). 

Goodell, William, D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister and eminent missionary, was born at Templeton, 
Mass., Feb, 14, 1792. In early youth he manifested 
great energy of character. At fifteen he went sixty 
miles on foot, carrying his trunk, to Phillips Academy, 
in Andover; and there, and afterwards in Dartmouth 
College, he overcame all difficulties until he graduated 
in 1817. He spent three years in Andover Theologi- 
cal Seminary, and in 1820 was accepted as a mission- 
ary of the American Board. lie travelled for some 
time as agent for raising funds for the society from 
New England as far as Alabama, and also visited the 
Cherokee and Choctaw missions east of the Mississip- 
pi. In Dec., 1822, lie sailed for Malta. After preach- 
ing in English and studying other languages during 
nine months, he left Malta for Beirut, where he ar- 
rived Nov. 16, 1823. “By the residence there of 
Messrs. Goodell and Bird, Beirut became a regular sta- 
tion of the Board. After some attention to the Arabic, 
Mr. Goodell went, in June, 1824, to Sidon, to study the 
Anneno-Turkish language with an Armenian ex-bish- 
op, Yakob Aga, where he became acquainted with 
another Armenian bishop, Dionysius Carabet, who, a 
year and a half later, was received into the mission 
church at Beirut. Thus singularly did the ‘ Mission to 
Syria and the Iloly Land,’ at the very outset, take 
hold of a people who were not thought of in its estab- 
lishment, and of whom but a few individuals were 
found by it except as pilgrims to the sacred places. 
In March, 1820, after the repulse of the Greeks in an 
attack on Beirut, Mr. Goodell’s house was plundered 
and his life endangered by Arab soldiers. In May, 
1828, war being imminent between Turkey and Eng- 
land, the missionaries were obliged to flee to Malta. 
There Mr. Goodell labored in connection with the 
press until the summer of 1831, when he repaired to 
Constantinople, and commenced the mission to Tur- 
kov, with special reference to the Armenians, in which 
he was joined a few months later by the Rev. II. G. 0. 
Dwight. From that time on his work lay specially 
among the Armenians. Mr. Goodell’s early experi- 
ence and natural temperament combined, with divine 
grace, to fit him eminently to meet them with a cheer- j 


ful patience. With a true Christian heroism, in which 
his wife had an equal share, he encountered such inci- 
dents of life as being obliged, by conflagrations, visita- 
tions of pestilence, convulsions and war, the extortions 
of landlords, hierarchical persecutions, interference of 
government, etc., ‘ to pack up and move’ his residence 
‘some thirty times in twenty-nine years,’ and battled 
with the opposition and obstacles that were ever before 
him as a missionary. Indomitable in his purpose to 
do good, affable and courteous in manner, of ready 
tact, and abounding in resistless pleasantry, he gained 
access wherever he chose to go, and exercised a mag- 
netic attraction that never left him without subjects 
oil whom to pour, in some form, the light of truth. 
He commanded the respect of foreign ambassadors and 
travellers, of dignitaries of the Oriental churches, 
bankers, and the highest in society, with whom, at dif- 
ferent periods, he had no little intercourse, as well as 
the common people; and even enemies to his work 
were constrained to honor him. Few possess in so 
high degree as he did the admirable faculty of doing 
good without offence, and of recommending personal 
religion to the world.” One of his most important la- 
bors was the translation of the Bible into Armeno- 
Tnrkish, commenced in 1843, and finished (the last re- 
vision) in 1863. In 1855 he returned to America, worn 
out with labor, and died in Philadelphia Feb. 18, 1867. 
“ In the future history of the kingdom of Christ in the 
lands which include the site of the garden that was 
planted in Eden, and the scenes of events most sacred 
to Christian hearts, the name of William Goodell will 
be precious to successive generations of sanctified 
souls, even to the end of the world.” — Missionary II er- 
edd, May, 1867. 

Goodly Trees is the rendering of yV, ets 
hadar , tree of splendor, the fruit ( n 7?3 “houghs”) of 
which (Sept. icapwog l,v\ov ojpaior r Vulg. fructus ar- 
boris jmlcherrimce), the Israelites were directed to take 
(i. e. carry about in festive procession) on the first day 
of the Feast of Tabernacles, in memory of the irhaving 
dwelt in booths in the wilderness (Lev. xxiii, 40). The 
tree generally conceded to he meant is’the citron (Cel- 
sius, Hierobot. i, 252), the fruit of which Josephus states 
was that in the hands of the Jews on the day of the 
festival of the Scenopegia, when they pelted king Jan- 
naiiis with it (Ant. xiii, 13, 5). See Citron. Others 
regard the olive as meant, this being the tree mention- 
ed in the parallel account of Neh. viii, 15. It would 
seem, however, Hunt no specific tree is intended, but 
any one of sufficient size and beauty to be suitable to 
the occasion (Ursini Arboret. Bibl. p. 577. See Tree. 

Goodman of tiie House, oiicoItcrrroDjg, Matt, 
xx, 11 ; xxi v, 43 ; Mark xiv, 14 ; Luke xxii, 1 1 , master 
of the house, as usually elsewhere rendered (Matt, x, 
25; Luke xiii, 25; xiv, 21; “householder,” Matt, 
xiii, 27, 52 ; xx, 1 ; xxi, 33). In ITov. vii, 19, “good- 
man” is the rendering of ish, man, i. e. husband. 

Goodman, Christopher, an English divine, was 
born at Chester in 1520. lie studied at Brazennose 
College, Oxford, and afterwards held offices in that 
university during the reign of Henry VIII and Ed- 
ward VI. When queen Mary ascended the throne he 
withdrew to Frankfort and thence to Geneva, where, 
with Knox, he became pastor of the English church. 
After Mary’s death he went to Scotland, and became 
rector of St. Andrews in 1560. About 1565 he return- 
ed to England, and accompanied Sir Henry Sidney in 
his expedition against Ireland. lie was afterwards 
reetor of Chester, and died there in 1602. lie wrote, 
IIow far superior Powers are to be obeyed of their Sub- 
jects (Geneva, 1558, lGmo), against queen Mary : — A 
Commentary uponAmos. Wood erroneously attributes 
to him Knox’s The First Blast of the Trumpet against 
the Monstrous Regiment of Women. See Wood, A thenen 
Oxonienses (vol. i) ; Scott, Lives of the Scotch Reform - 


GOODMAN 


925 


GOODRICH 


ers; Peck, Desiderata (vol. i); Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. I 
Generate , xxi, 2G1 ; Allibone, Diet, of Authors , s. v. 

Goodman, Godfrey, was bom at Ruthven, in 
Denbighshire, 1583, and educated at Westminster 
School, and at Trinity College, Cambridge. In 1G07 
he got the living of Stapleford Abbots, in Essex ; in 
1017, a canonry of Windsor; in 1G20, the deanery of | 
Rochester; and in 1G25, the bishopric of Gloucester. | 
Bishop Goodman was a Romanizer, even beyond Laud’s ! 
tolerance. In 1G40 the new canons were set forth, 
which he refused to subscribe, “and it appeared after- 
wards,” says Fuller, “that he scrupled about some I 
passages on the corporeal presence, but whether upon 
popish or Lutheran principles he best knowetb.” Laud, 
then archbishop, after the clergy had subscribed, ad- 
vised him “to avoid obstinacy and irregularity there- 
in, but lie refused.” It was in Henry VIPs chapel, 
and being greatly offended, Land said to him, “My 
Lord of Gloucester, I admonish you to subsciibe.” 
Goodman remained silent, and Laud again said, “ My 
Lord of Gloucester, I do admonish you a second time 
to subscribe,” and immediately after, “ I do admonish 
you a third time to subscribe.” Goodman “pleaded 
conscience,” and was in consequence suspended. He 
was committed to the Gatehouse, “where,” says Ful- 
ler, “ he got by this restraint what he could never have 
got by his liberty, namely, of one reputed a papist, to 
become for a short time popular, as the only conse- 
quent suffering for not subscribing to the new canons.” 
He died January 19, 1G55, in open profession of popery, 
lie wrote, 1. The Fall of Man, and Corruption of Na- 
ture, proved by Reason (London, 1624, 4to) : — 2. Argu- 
ments and A nimadversions on Dr. George Hakewil's apol- 
ogy for Divine Providence : — 3. The two Mysteries of the 
Christum Religion, viz. the Trinity and the Incarnation 
explicated (Loud. 1G53, 4to) : — The Court of King James, 
by Sir Anthony Weldon (edited by Brener, Loud. 1839, 
2 vols.Svo). — Ilook, Eccl. Biography, v, 335 ; Darling, 
Cyclop. Bibliographica , s.v. ; Gentleman's Magazine, vol. 
lxxviii ; F uller, Church History, bk. xi. 

Goodness of God denotes “ both the absolute 
perfection of his own nature, and his kindness mani- 
fested to his creatures. Goodness, says Dr. Gill, is es- 
sential to God, without which he would not be God 
(Exod. xxxiii, 19; xxxiv, G, 7). Goodness belongs 
only to God ; he is solely good (Matt, xix, 17), and all 
the goodness found in creatures is only an emanation of 
the divine goodness. lie is the chief good, the sum and 
substance of all felicity (Psa.cxliv, 2,15; xxv, 7; lxxiii, 
25; iv, 6, 7). There is nothing but goodness in God, 
and nothing but goodness comes from him (1 John i, 5 ; 
James i, 13, 14). He is infinitely good; finite minds 
cannot comprehend his goodness (Rom. xi, 35, 36). He 
is immutably and unchangeably good (Zeph. iii, 17). 
The goodness of God is communicative and diffusive 
(Fsa. cxix, G8 ; xxxiii, 5). With respect to the ob- 
jects of it, it may be considered as general and special. 
His general goodness is seen in all his creatures; yea, 
in the inanimate creation, the sun, the earth, and all 
bis works; and in the government, support, and pro- 
tection of the world at large (Fsa. xxxvi, 6; cxlv). 
His special goodness relates to angels and saints: to 
angels, in creating, confirming, and making them what 
they are ; to saints, in election, calling, justification, 
adoption, sanctification, perseverance, and eternal glo- 
rification.” See Charnock, Works, v, i, 574; Palcy, 
Nat. Theol. ch. xxvi ; South, Sermons, vol. viii, serin, 
iii ; Tillotson, Sermons , p. 143-14G ; Watson, Institutes , 
i, 420 ; Henderson’s Buck, s. v. See God. 

Goodrich, Chauncey Allan, D.D., was born in 
New Haven, Conn., Oct. 23, 1790. He graduated at 
Yale in 1810 ; was tutor in Yale College from 1812 to 
1814 ; and in 1816, having completed a course of the- 
ological study, was installed as pastor of the First 
Church in Middletown, Conn. On the accession of 
Dr. Day to the presidency of Yale College in 1817, 


NIr. Goodrich was elected professor of rhetoric and ora- 
tory in that institution, but relinquished the office in 
1839, to accept the chair of pastoral theology in the 
theological seminary, a position which he occupied 
until his death — a period of twenty years. In 1820 
he was elected president of Williams College, but de- 
clined to accept that honor. In 1835 he received the 
degree of doctor of divinity from Brown University. 
“In 1814 he prepared a Greek grammar, which passed 
through several editions. In 1827 he superintended 
the abridgment of Webster's Quarto American Diction - 
ary. In 1829 he established the Quarterly Christian 
Spectator , which he edited for nearly ten years. In 
184 G and ’47 he prepared revised editions of Webster's 
Dictionary, and in 185G, the university edition of the 
same work. In 1852 he published his admirable work 
on British Eloquence, which has been extensively cir- 
culated, both in England and America. Besides per- 
forming the literary labor involved in preparing and 
editing these various works, Frof. Goodrich was prom- 
inently connected with many of the most important 
benevolent societies of the country. At the time of 
his death he was laboriously engaged, as one of the 
; ‘Committee on Versions’ of the American Bible So- 
ciety, in preparing a new edition of the English text. 
As an instructor, Frof. Goodrich was enthusiastic, un- 
tiring, and effective, always impressing himself upon 
■ his pupils, inspiring them to the highest effort. He 
| guided them to imitate models of clear and eloquent 
thinking, and taught them to express their own 
thoughts in a chaste and manly st^de. As an officer 
of the college, he was singularly active and energetic, 
never shrinking from any duty or responsibility, and 
always making the interests of the institution the ob- 
ject of his own personal care and anxious solicitude.” 
He died at New llaven, Feb. 25, 18G0. — New York Ob - 
| server, March 1, 1860 ; New Haven Journal; Conyrcga - 
1 tional Quarterly, 18G0, p. 241. 

Goodrich, Elizur, D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, was born in Wethersfield, Conn., Oct. 2G, 1734. 
He graduated at Yale College in 1752. He now stud- 
ied theology, hut was called to be tutor at Yale College 
I in 1755. In 1756 he was invited to the Congregational 
church in Durham, Conn. In 1766, to aid in the sup- 
port of his growing family, he began to prepare stu- 
dents for college. His thorough scholarship made him 
a highly successful teacher, and during the next twen- 
ty years more than three hundred young men passed 
under his instructions, lie was repeatedly sent by the 
General Association of Connecticut as a delegate to a 
convention held by that association, and the synods 
of New York and Philadelphia, from 1766 to 1776. 
He received the degree of doctor of divinity from 
Princeton College. In 1776 he was elected to the cor- 
poration of Yale College, and, as a member of the 
Prudential Committee, his labors in behalf of the col- 
lege for twenty years were among the most useful of 
his life. lie died of apoplexy at Norfolk, Conn., Nov. 
22, 1797. He published a number of occasional dis- 
courses. — Sprague, Annals, i, 50G. 

Goodrich, Thomas, an eminent English divine, 
was horn at East Kirby, Lincolnshire, about 1480. He 
studied at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, gradua- 
ted at Jesus College in 1510, and became proctor of the 
university in 1515. In 1529 he gained great favor 
with Henry VIII by pronouncing himself against the 
validity of that prince’s marriage with Catharine. He 
was successively appointed rector of St. Peter’s, Lon- 
don, canon of St. Stephen's, Westminster, and chaplain 
of the king. In 1534 he was elected bishop of Ely, 
and showed himself a zealous supporter of the Refor- 
mation. He took an active part in the organization of 
the English Church, was one of the theologians com- 
missioned to examine the translation of the N. T., to 
! compile the Common Pravcr-book of 1548, and the In- 
stitution of a Christian Man, called also the Bishops’ 


GOODWIN 


GOPHER 


Book, with the collaboration of Cranmer, Stokcsley, 
Gardiner, Sampson, Latimer, etc. Goodrich was a 
member of the privy council under Ilenrv VIII and 
Edward VI, who also employed him several times as 
ambassador. In 1551 he was appointed lord chancel- 
lor of England. This office lie lost when queen 31 ary 
ascended the throne, hut he retained his bishopric, and 
died 31 ay 10, 1554.— Hoefer, Nouv. Bing. Generate, xxi, 
2G1 ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. r, 338 ; Burnet, Hist, of Engl . 
Be formation, ii, 214, 201, 427. 

Goodwin, John, an eminent Arminian divine, 
was born in 1593, and was educated at Queen’s Col- 
lege, Cambridge, where he became fellow in 1617. In 
1633 he became vicar of St. Stephen’s, Coleman Street, 
London, from which he was ejected in 1G45 for refus- 
ing to administer baptism and the Lord’s supper pro- 
miscuously. He was a man of great courage, elo- 
quence, and energy; and, though an Independent in 
Church government, he was a zealous Arminian in 
doctrine. At the Restoration he was exempted from 
pardon ; but no measures were taken against him, and 
he died in 1665. lie wrote The divine Authority of the 
Scriptures asserted (Loud. 16 IS, 4to): — Redemption re- 
deemed, wherein the most glorious Work of the Redemp- 
tion of the World by Jesus Christ is vindicated against 
the Encroachments of latter Times (London, 1651, fol. ; 
new ed. 1840, 8vo) : — Exposition of Romans ix (new ed. 
by T. Jackson, London, 1835, 8vo) : — Imputatio Fidei, a 
Treatise of Justification (London, 1642, 4to). This last 
treatise was published in an abridged form (12mo) by ! 
3Ir. Wesley, who held Goodwin’s works in high es- 
teem. A summary of Christian Theology selected from 
Goodu-in was published by S. Dunn (London, 1836, 
12mo); and Goodwin’s Lfe has also been written by 
Rev. T. Jackson (London, 1839, 8vo). John Goodwin 
was in advance of his age, not only in his theology, 
but also in his broad views of the nature of the Church 
and of toleration. His writings contributed greatly i 
to the diffusion of sound doctrines on religious liberty. I 
l ’ Had Redemption Redeemed been Ills only publication, 
it should have been enough of itself to perpetuate his 
fame. Its great learning, clear reasoning, sound judg- 
ment, and admirable spirit, render it worthy of the 
study of all lovers of this glorious doctrine, and the 
name of its author one which all Arminians should , 
delight to honor. A volume so ably written, and go- 
ing to the bottom of the controversy, could not, in that 
polemic age, fail of creating a storm. The pulpits 
rang with charges of heresy. The press groaned with 
sermons, pamphlets, and books. Some were bitterly 
scurrilous. Dr. Ilill, master of Trinity College, Cam- 
bridge, charged him with falsifying his quotations, 
and with the errors of Pelagius. Resbury wrote very 
much in the spirit of Edwards. Robert Baillie seems 
to have taken IVvnne for his model. Barlow, after- 
wards bishop of Lincoln, alone among the crowd ad- 
dressed him in a style of manliness and Christian can- 
dor, speaking of his learning and talents with compli- 
ment and respect. George Kendall filled two folios, 
and actually removed to London that he might watch 
Goodwin and the better oppose him and his doctrine, 
lie says of himself that though he sometimes sneers, 
he never snarls or bites. He doubtless tells the truth 
about the sneering and the biting. Toplady thought 
the 1 Redemption Redeemed was effectually answered’ 
by Kendall. * If it was,’ says Sellon, ‘ I will eat it, as 
tough a morsel as it is.’ Dr. John Owen, then vice- 
chancellor at Oxford, and overwhelmed with labors, 
deemed it necessary to employ eight hundred and fifty 
octavo pages in a reply to the seven chapters on the 
Perseverance of the Saints” (D. A. Whedon, in Meth- 
odist Quart . Rev. July, 1863, p. 371 ; Meth. Q. Rev. Oct. 
1869, art. 1). — Hook, Eccles. Bing, v, 339; Allibone, 
Diet. of Authors, i, 704 ; Neal, Hist, of the Puritans. 

Goodwin, Thomas, D.D., a nonconformist Cal- 
vinistic divine of the 17th century, was born at Holies-. 


bv, Norfolk, Oct. 5, 1600. He was educated at Christ 
Church College and Catharine Hall, Cambridge, of 
which he afterwards became fellow. In 1628 he be- 
came lecturer of Trinity Church, Cambridge, and four 
years afterwards was presented by the king to the vic- 
arage of the same church. Refusing the terms of con- 
formity, lie relinquished his preferments, and in 1634 
quitted the university. During the subsequent perse- 
cution of the Puritans he fled to Holland, where he be- 
came minister of a congregation at Arnheim. At the 
beginning of the Long Parliament he returned to Lon- 
don, and was one of the Assembly of Divines, with 
whom, however, he did not always agree. He became 
a great favorite with Cromwell, through whose influ- 
ence, in 1649, lie was made one of the commissioners 
for licensing preachers, and appointed president of 
Magdalen College, Oxford. He was ejected at the 
Restoration. Anthony Wood styles him and Dr. Owen 
“the two Atlases and patriarchs of independency.” 
He died Feb. 23, 1679. A portion of his works were 
published in five vols. folio (Loiul. 1G81); and besides 
those to be found there he wrote Certain select Cases 
resolved, specially tending to the Comfort of Believers in 
Temptation (London, 1647, 4to). The following have 
.been recently reprinted, viz. Child of Light (London, 
1840, 12mo): — Ephesians and Revelations (Loud. 1842, 
8vo) : — Christ the Mediator (Lond. 1846, 8vo) : — Glories 
of Christ (1847, 8vo) : — Government of the Church (1848, 
8vo) : — Justifying Faith (1848, 8vo) : — Divine Decrees 
(1844, Svo): — UorA'S, condensed b} r J. Babb (London, 
1847-49, 4 vols. 8vo). A new and complete edition of 
Goodwin’s works has just been completed in Nicholls’s 
Series of standard Divines, making 12 vols. 8vo (Edinb. 
1861-66), containing (vol. ii) a Memoir of Goodwin , by 
Robert Halley, D.D. — Jones, Christian Biography, p. 
187 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographica, i, 1289; Calamy, 
Nonconformists’ Memorial; Neal, Hist, of the Puritans. 

Gopatata. See Jutapata. 

Go'pher (Ileb. id. according to Gesenius, i. 
q. pitch ; acc. to Fiirst, connected with 
brimstone , i. e. resin ; Sept. rtTpdyiovoc, Yulg. leviga- 
tus ), a kind of tree, the wood of which is mentioned 
only once in Scripture, as the material of which Noah 
was directed to build the ark (Gen. vi, 14): “3Iake 
thee an ark of gopher wood ; rooms shalt thou make in 
the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with 
pitch” (probably bitumen). In endeavoring to ascertain 
the particular kind of wood which is mentioned in the 
above passage, we can get assistance only from the 
name, the country where the wood was supposed to 
have been procured, or the traditional interpretations. 
The Sept, renders it “ squared timbers,” and the Vul- 
gate “ planed wood” (apparently understanding r®3). 
Some have adopted the opinion that a kind of pine-tTQQ 
is intended ; and others that several species may be 
included, as they all yield resin, tar, and pitch. The 
Persian translator has also adopted the pine ; but Cel- 
sius objects that this was never common in Assyria and 
Babylonia. The Chaldee version and others give the 
cedar , because it was always plentiful in Asia, and was 
distinguished by the incorruptible nature of its wood. 
But cedar is a very general term, and correctly applied 
only to different kinds of juniper. These, though 
yielding excellent wood, remarkable for its fragrance, 
never grow to a large size in any warm country. Eiu 
tychius, patriarch of Alexandria, relates in his Annals 
(p. 34), as quoted by Celsius ( Hie robot . i, 331), that the 
ark (q. v.) was made of a wood called sag or saj, which 
is the teak , and not likely to have been the wood em- 
ployed. The Chaldee Samaritan translator, for gopher, 
gives, as a synonym, sisani , of which Celsius says 
(Hierobot. i, 332), “ Vocem obscurant, sive referas ad 
£v\u mjadfitva, quaj ex Indiis adferri seribit Arrianus 
( Pcripl . Mar. Erythr. p. 162), et Ebeno similia perbi- 
bent alii (Salmasius, in Solin. p. 727).” The sisam is 
probably the sissu, mentioned by Forskal as import- 


GOPHNA 


927 


GORGIAS 


ed in his time into Arabia, and is a highly-valued, 
dark-colored wood, of which one kind is called black- 
wood {Dalbcrgia latifolid). The greatest number of 
writers have been of opinion that by the gopher wood 
we are to understand the cypress; and this opinion is 
supported by such authorities as Fuller {Sacred Mis- 
cellanies, iv, 5), Bochart ( Geogr . Sacra, i, 4), as well as 
by Celsius (Jlierobot . i, 328). It has been stated that 
gopher is the Greek KVTrdpitTOOQ, with a mere addition 
to the root. It is argued, further, that the wood of the 
cypress, being almost incorruptible, was likely to be 
preferred; that it was frequently employed in later 
ages in the construction of temples, bridges, and even 
ships ; and that it was very abundant in the countries 
where, according to these authors, the ark is supposed 
to have been built, that is, in Assyria, where other 
woods are scarce. — Kitto, s. v. Ets-Gopher. See Tree. 

Gophna ( Vo<pva in Josephus ; To v(pva in Ptolemy ; 
see Reland, Pahest. p. 461), a town of Palestine, which 
gave its name to one of the ten toparehies, Gophnitica 
(// ro(pmruo) ro7r«pxi«, Josephus, War, iii, 3,5; “ to- 
parehia Gophnitica,” Pliny, v, 14). Josephus reckons 
it second in importance to Jerusalem, and usually joins 
it with Arcaballa. It was one of the four cities taken 
by Cassius {War, i, 11, 2) and reduced to slavery {Ant. 
xiv, 11, 2), but restored to freedom by a decree of Marc 
Antony after the battle of Philippi (ib. 12, 2 and 3). 
It was taken by Vespasian in his last campaign in Pal- 
estine {War, iv, 9, 9), and, as Titus marched on Jeru- 
salem by way of Caisarea and Samaria, he passed 
through Gophna {ib. v, 2, 1). It was to this place that 
the latter allowed certain important Jewish refugees 
to retire temporarily during the siege of Jerusalem 
(vi, 2, 2, 3). Eusebius probably gives the true origin 
of the name (from “jS J, ge' phen, a vine, from the vine- 
yards in the vicinity), although he errs (or is, rather, 
himself uncertain) in identifying it with the Eshcol of 
the spies {Onomast. p. 157, ed. Clericus) ; and he states 
that it lay (?) Foil'd') fifteen miles from Jerusalem to- 
wards Neapolis, in near agreement with the Peutinger 
Table, which makes it sixteen miles. It was identi- 
fied by Dr. Robinson with Jufna, a small Christian 
village, rather more than one hour north-west of Bei- 
tina (Bethel), with many ruins of the Middle Ages, and 
situated in a very fertile valley {Bib. Res. iii, 77-9). 
It is probably the Oruxi (q. v.) of Benjamin (Josh, 
xviii, 24). 

Gophrith. See Brimstone. 

Gor. See Whelp. 

Gordianus, the name of three Roman emperors. 
Marcus Antoniu%Gordianus I, descended from a noble 
family, and distinguished for his literal education, 
was twice consul, under Caraealla and Severus. By 
the latter he was appointed proconsul of the province 
of Africa, in which position he gained the affection of 
the people of the province to so high a degree, that on 
the assassination of the emperor Maximinus, he was, at 
the age of 80 years, proclaimed emperor in 238, togeth- 
er with his son, who assumed the name of Marcus An- 
tonins Gordianus II. The Roman Senate recognised 
them; but after a reign of only a few weeks Gordia- 
nus II fell in a battle at Carthage against Capellianus, 
the governor of Mauritania, and Gordianus I, on learn- 
ing the news, killed himself. At the demand of the 
Roman people, a minor grandson of Gordianus I was 
placed as Cmsar by the side of Pupienus Maximus and 
Balbinus, who had been elected emperors against Max- 
iminus ; and when all these three emperors were killed 
by their own soldiers, he was still in the same year (238) 
proclaimed as Augustus by the Praetorians. He car- 
ried on a successful war against the Persians, and had 
an excellent adviser in his father-in-law Misitheus. 
He reigned until 244, when Pliilippus the Arabian, 
who for some time had been his colleague, caused him 
to be assassinated. The Christian Church during the 
reign of Gordianus 'was undisturbed. (A. J. S.) 


Gordon, George N., a Presbyterian minister 
! and missionary, was born in Prince Edward Island in 
1821. He studied at the Free-Clnireh College, Hali- 
fax, N. S., and was sent by the Presbyterian Church 
of Nova Scotia to the New Hebrides, and settled at 
Enomanga, in 1857, with his wife, whom he married in 
| England. On the 20th of May, 18G1, he and his wife 
j were killed by the natives. — Wilson, Presb. Hist. Al- 
manac, 1862, p. 330. 

Gordon, James Huntley, an eminent Scotch 
Jesuit, was born in 1543. He was educated at Rome, 

| and entered the order of Jesuits Sept. 20, 1563. For 
nearly fifty years he taught Hebrew and theology at 
Rome, Paris, and Bordeaux. lie travelled also, as 
missionary, through England and Scotland, where his 
! zeal for making converts to the Roman Catholic Church 
, caused him to be twice put in prison. He died at Par- 
I is, April 16, 1620. Gordon was a learned and skillful 
I man, and very zealous for his order. He wrote Con- 
I t rover siarum christianre Jidei Epitome, 3 parts (i, Limo- 
ges, 1612; ii, Paris; iii, reprinted with the two oth- 
ers, Cologne, 1G20, 8vo). See Alegamhe, Bibliotheca 
Scriptorum Societatis Jesu; Hoefer, Nouv. Bing. Gene- 
rate, xxi, 280. 

Gordon, James Lesmore, a Scotch Jesuit, 
was born at Aberdeen in 1553. He became a member 
of the Society of Jesus, and taught theology in the 
colleges of his order, at Toulouse and Bordeaux. Later 
in life he was appointed confessor to Louis XIII. He 
died at Paris, Nov. 17, 1641. We have from him Dia- 
triba de catholica veritate (Bord. 1623, 12mo) : — Biblia 
Sacra, cam commentariis ad sensnm litteree et explica- 
tione locorum omnium quee in sacris litteris obscurita - 
tern habent (Paris, 1632, fol.): — Theologia moralis uni- 
versa , viii libris comprehensa (Paris, 1634, fol.). Da- 
pin highly commends his commentary. — Hoefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, xxi, 280. 

Gordon, Robert, D.D., a Scotch divine, was 
born in Dumfries. “His first settlement in the min- 
istry was at Kinfauns, 1816 ; in 1820 he was translated 
to the old Chapel of Ease, Edinburgh. In 1825 he be- 
came one of the ministers of the High Chureh. In 
1843 he joined the ‘Free-Cliurch movement’ and re- 
signed his preferment. Most of his people went with 
him, and formed the ‘Free High Church,’ of which 
he remained minister to the time of his death, October, 
1853. He published Sermons (3d ed. Edinburgh, 1826, 
8vo) : — Christ as made known to the A ncient Church : — 
An exposition of the revelation of Divine Grace, as un- 
folded in the O. T. Scriptures (posthumous ; Edinburgh, 
1854,4 vols. 8vo).” — Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographica , i, 
1292 ; Bibliotheca Sacra , July, 1854, p. 631. 

Gor'gias (ropytac, a frequent name among the 
Oriental Greeks), one of the generals of Antioehus Kpi- 
plianes, was chosen by Lysias, the general and minis- 
ter of Antioehus Epiphanes and at this time in sole 
command of the provinces from the Euphrates to the 
sea, to undertake an expedition in company with Ptol- 
emy, the son ofDorymenes, and with Nieanor, against 
Judaea, B.C. 166 (1 Mace, iii, 38; Joseph. Ant. xii, 7, 
i 2, 3, where he is styled “a mighty man of the king's 
friends”). These generals were, however, totally de- 
; feated near Emmaus by Judas Maeeabaeus (1 Maec. iv, 
1 sq. ; Joseph. Ant. 1. c). In B.C. 165, Joseph, the son 
of Zaeharias, and Azarias, two captains in the service 
of Judas Maeeabaeus, anxious to get themselves a 
name, and acting without the orders of Judas, attack- 
ed the garrison of Jamnia. Gorgias, the governor of 
the forces at Jamnia, defeated them with great loss (1 
Mace, v, 56 sq. ; Joseph. Ant. xii, 7, G). 

The account of Gorgias in 2 Maee. is very confused. 
In one passage he is described simply as “a captain, 
j who in matters of war had great experience,” and 
therefore sent with Nieanor, the son of Patroelus, one 
of the special friends of Ptolomteus, the governor of 
| Coele-Syria and Phoenice (comp. 1 Mace, iii, 38 ; Jo- 


GORHAM CASE 


928 


GORTON* 


seph. Ant. xii, 7, 3), to root out the whole nation of the 
Jews (2 Macc. viii, 9). In anotlier passage he is rep- 
resented as “governor of the holds” {orpariiyog tCjv 
roTrwi' [Alex. MS. rpoTrwr], 2 Mace, x, 14), and ap- 
parently of the holds of the Idnmaeans (?) (Acrabat- 
tene [?], comp. 1 Macc. v, 3 ; Joseph. I nt. xii, 8, 1 ; see 
Ewald, Geschiclite , iv, 91, 358). lie is afterwards, ac- 
cording to the present text, described as “governor of 
Idumiea” (2 Mace, xii, 32). 

Grotius (see WernsdorfF, Dc fid. Libr. Macc., § 73) 
suggests that the reading “governor of Idumaea” is an 
error for “ governor of Jamnia” (as at 1 Macc. v, 58). 
Josephus warrants this correction (o rijg lapvtiag 
orpcirgyug, ^nt. xii, 8, 6). From the epithet applied 
to Gorgias, he seems to have been held in the highest 
detestation by the Jews (A. V., “that cursed man,” 
ruv KaTcipctrov, 2 Mace, xii, 85). The description of 
his flight to Marisa and his defeat by Dositheus, one 
of Judas’s generals, is given at some length, though in 
an obscure and confused manner (2 Mace, xii, 34-38 ; 
comp. Joseph. Ant. xii, 8, 6). — Kitto, s. v. 

Gorham Case, a case in law involving the doc- 
trine of the Church of England as. to baptismal regen- 
eration. In August, 1847, the lord chancellor (lord 
Cottenham) offered to present Mr. Gorham to the vi- 
carage of Brampford-Speke. The bishop, on being re- 
quested to countersign his testimonials, stated on the 
paper his doubts as to Mr. Gorham’s views, both of 
discipline and doctrine. The lord chancellor, howev- 
er, presented Mr. Gorham, who applied for institution. 
The bishop then intimated his intention of examining 
Mr. Gorham before he instituted him. The examina- 
tion took place, and continued for several days. The 
result was, that the bishop of Exeter declined to insti- 
tute Mr. Gorham to the vicarage of Brampford-Speke. 
“The alleged ground of this refusal was, that after ex- 
amination the bishop found Mr. Gorham to be of un- 
sound doctrine as to the efficacy of the sacrament of 
baptism, inasmuch as he held that spiritual regenera- 
tion is not given or conferred in that sacrament in par- 
ticular, that infants are not made therein ‘ members 
of Christ and the children of God,’ as the catechism 
and formularies of the Church declare them to be. 
The case was brought before the Arches Court of Can- 
terbury, which decided (1849) that baptismal regenera- 
tion is the doctrine of the Church of England, and that 
Mr. Gorham maintained doctrines on the point op- 
posed to those of the Church, and that consequently 
the bishop had shown sufficient cause for his refusal 
to institute, and that the appeal must be dismissed 
with costs. From this decision Mr. Gorham appealed 
to the judicial committee of privy council. The com- 
mittee complained that the bishop’s questions were in- 
tricate and entangling, and that the answers were not 
given plainly and directly. Their decision was in sub- 
stance as follows, and it must be noted what points 
they undertook to decide, and what not. The court 
declared that it had no jurisdiction to settle matters 
of faith, or to determine what ought, in any particu- 
lar, to be the doctrine of the Church of England, its 
duty being only to consider what is bylaw established 
to be her doctrine upon the legal construction of her 
articles and formularies. It appeared that very dif- 
ferent opinions as to the sacrament of baptism were 
held by the promoters of the Reformation ; that differ- 
ences of opinion on various points left open were al- 
ways thought consistent with subscription to the arti- 
cles; and aho, that opinions in no important particu- 
lar to be distinguished from Mr. Gorham’s had been 
maintained without censure by many eminent prelates 
and divines. Without expressing any opinion as to 
the theological accuracy of Mr. Gorham’s opinions, the 
court decided that the judgment of the Arches Court 
should be reversed. Mr. Gorham was accordingly in- 
stituted to Brampford-Speke. During the two years 
that the suit was pending, the theological question was 
discussed with all degrees of ability and acrimony in 


sermons and pamphlets.”- — History of Christian Church 
(Eneyc. Mctrop., Glasgow, 1858, p.3S7 sq.) ; Chambers, 
Encyclopaedia , s. v. ; Theological Critic , April, 1852, art. 
iii ; English Review , vols. xiii, xiv ; Marsden, Churches 
and Sects , i, 42 ; Cunningham, Discussion of Church 
Principles (Edinburgh, 1863), chap. vi. 

Gorion (Pwptwr), son of Josephus (? Caiaphus), 
and one of those of eminent family who incited the 
Jewish populace to resist the anarchy of the Zealots 
(Josephus, I Far, iv, 3, 9), but was eventually slain by 
them (ib. 6, 1). 

Goriun, surnamed Skantcueli ( the Admirable 
One), an Armenian theologian, lived in the 5th century 
of the Christian aira. After studying philosophy, the- 
ology, and the Syriac and Greek languages under St. 
Mesrop (q. v.) and patriarch Isaac I, he was sent to 
Constantinople to complete his studies. On returning 
to his country, he engaged with Esnig (q. v.) and four 
others in a translation of the Bible, and of several works 
of the Greek fathers, into the Armenian. He subse- 
quently became bishop of a diocese bordering upon 
Georgia. He is the author of a work on The Life of 
J fesrop, which is of importance for the early history of 
the Armenian Church, and was published by the Mek- 
hitarists at Venice in Operc di antichi Scrittori Armeni 
del quinto secolo (Veil. 1833). See De Welte, Coriuns 
Lebensbeschreib. d. heil. Mesrop (Tub. 1844). (A. J. S.) 

Gorkum, the Martyrs of, the name given in 
the Roman Catholic Church to nineteen monks and 
priests of Dordrecht who had fled to Gorkum, were 
captured at the conquest of that town by the Gueux in 
1572, and hung. On account of pretended miracles 
wrought by their relies, Pope Clement X, in 1674, al- 
lowed them to be venerated in Holland. In 1867 they 
were canonized by Pius IX. (A. J. S.) 

Gorres. See Goerres. 

Gorski, Theophylact, a Russian theologian, 
died bishop of Kolomna in 1788. He wrote Orthodoxie 
orientalis Ecclesice Dogmata (Lpz. 1784), and a Compen- 
dium of Christian Dogmas , in Latin and Russian, which 
has since been translated into German and French (St. 
Petersburg, 1792). These books, although in general 
use in the Russian seminaries, openly advocate Pro- 
testant views, and are opposed both to the Roman 
Catholic and to the orthodox Greek dogmas. See Diet, 
hist . des Ecrivains de V Eglise greco-russe ; P. Gagarin, 
De la Theologie dans V Eglise russe (Paris, 1857); Iloe- 
fer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xxi, 309. 

Gorton, Samuel, founder of a sect called Gorto- 
nians , was born at Gorton, England* about 1600. He 
says himself, in one of his letters, “ I have never stud- 
ied in the schools of human learning, and I bless God 
for it.” He was first in the employ of a linen-draper 
in London, but left that city in 1636 and went to Bos- 
ton, U. S., in the hope of enjoying religious liberty; 
but the Church there not being disposed to put up 
with his extravagant ideas, lie went to Plymouth, 
where he fared still worse, being fined, imprisoned, and 
finally expelled in the midst of winter. In J une, 1639, 
he became an inhabitant of Aqnidneck, or Rhode Isl- 
and, where fresh persecution befel him. Driven from 
place to place, lie finally bought some land at Pawtux- 
et, R. I., where lie settled. Complained of by his neigh- 
bors as encroaching on their property, he refused to ap- 
pear before the court of Massachusetts, and in 1642 
settled at Shawmut, where he had bought land of the 
sachem Miantonomoh. His claims under this pur- 
chase were, however, contested by two inferior sa- 
chems, who appealed to the general court of Massa- 
chusetts for assistance. Gorton and ten of his disci- 
ples were captured soon after and taken before the 
court, where the land question soon gave place to 
a trial for their lives as “damnable heretics,” and 
they were condemned to hard labor at Charlestown 
for an unlimited time. In 1644 the sentence was 


GORTYNA 


929 


GORTYNA 


changed into banishment. Gorton then returned 
with his partisans to Khoile Island, where he per- 
suaded the Indians to put themselves under the pro- 
tection of England, and to abandon to that country a 
part of their territory. lie then proceeded to Eng- 
land, where, in consideration of this service, he re- 
ceived letters patent guaranteeing to him the peaceful 
possession of his property at Shawmut. He called the 
place Warwick, in remembrance of services rendered 
him by the earl of Warwick. Gorton died about 1677. 
ITis sect became soon extinct, lie wrote, Simplicities' 
Defence against seven-headed Policy (1646, 4to) : — An 
incorruptible Key , composed of the cx Psalnie , wherewith 
you m ty open the rest of the holy Scriptures (1647, 4to) : 
— Salt marsh returned from the Dead (1655, 4to) : — A n 
Antidote against the common Plague of the World. See 
Mackie’s Life of Gorton in “Sparks’s Amer. Biogra- 
phy Duyckinck, Cyclop, of American Literature, i, 78 ; 
New American Cyclopaedia , viii, 384 ; Bartlett, Bibliog. 
of Rhode Island , 134 sep ; Hutchinson, History of Mas- 
sachusetts, i, 117. (J. W. M.) 

Gorty'na (Puprwva ; in classical writers, ruprvv 
or r<jprui'« ; on a coin, Kdprurrr JMvopruriwr]), a city 
of Crete, mentioned in the Apocrypha in the list of 
cities to which the Romans sent letters on behalf of 
the Jews, when Simon the Maceabee renewed the 
treaty which his brothers Judas and Jonathan had 
made with Rome (1 Mace, xv, 23; comp. 1 Maec. viii, 
1 sq. ; xii, 1 sq.). There is no doubt that the Jews 
were settled in great numbers in Crete (Josephus, Ant. 
xvii, 12, 1 ; War, ii, 7 ; Philo, Leg. ad Caium, see. 36), 
and Gortvna may have been their chief residence. 
Ptolemy Philometor, who treated the Jews kindly, and 
who had received a numerous body in Egypt when 
they were driven out of Judrna by the opposite party 
(Josephus, Ant. xiii, 3; War, i, 1, 1), rebuilt part of 
Gortvna (Strabo, x, Uidot. ed., p. 411). When Paul, 
as a prisoner, was on his voyage from Ciesarea to 
Rome, the ship, on account of a storm, was obliged to 
run under the lee of Crete, in the direction of Cape 
Sal ni one, and soon after came to a place called Fair 
H avens, which was near a city called Lascea (Acts 
xxvii, 8). Lasoea is probably the Lasia of the Peutin- 
gcrian Tables, and is there stated to be sixteen miles 
east of Gortvna. It is very uncertain how long the 
vessel was detained at Fair Havens, though “much 
time had been spent” (Acts xxvii, 9), ?ioC^inee they 
had sailed from Caesarea, but at the anchorage (Alford, 
ad loe.). Doubtless the sailors, soldiers, and prison- 
ers had frequent intercourse with Lasann, and perhaps 
Gortyna. Paul may then have preached the Gospel 
at one or both of these places, but of this there is not 
the slightest proof (comp. Cony beare and Iiowson, Life 
of St. Paul, ii, 394-396). See Paul. 

Gortyna, according to Ptolemy (iii, 17,10), was situ- 
ated in 54° 15 / and 34° 50'. Simon proposes a Shemit- 
ic etymology for the name {Onom. p. 50 ; but see Sick- 
ler, Handhuch, p. 470). Next to Cnossus, it was the 
most important city in the island for power and mag- 
nificence. At one time Gortyna and Cnossus in union 
held the whole of Crete in their power except Lvttus 
(Polyb. iv, 53, 54). In later times they were in a con- 
tinual state of warfare (Strabo, x, Didot. ed., p. 410). 
Gortyna was founded by a colony from Gortvs of Ar- 
cadia (Plato, Leges , iv, Didot. ed., p. 320). It was of 
very considerable size, its walls being fifty stadia in 
circuit, whilst those of its rival, Cnossus, were not more 
than thirty (Strabo, x, Didot. ed., p. 409-411). Homer 
bestows upon it the epithet “ walled” (rfiyiowtra, II. 
ii, 646). It was situate on the south side of the island, 
on the river Letlneus (Messara), and at a distance of 
ninety stadia from the Libyan Sea (Strabo, l. cl). In 
the Peloponnesian war Gortyna seems to have had 
some relations with Athens (Thnc.ii, 85). Its connec- 
tion with Philopoemen in B.C. 201 is shown by the 
Gortynians having invited him to take the command 
of their army (Plutarch, Philop. 13). When the Aehae- 
III.— N x N 


| an League was in alliance with the Romans, P C. 197, 

' against Philip V of Macedon, 500 Gortynians joined 
j Quinctius Flamininus when on his march to Thessaly, 

| previous to the battle of Cynoscephahe (Livv, xxxiii, 

| 3). It is only recently that a coin bearing the well- 
known types of the League has been found, struck at 
Gortyna. The late Col. Leake has shown that the 
coin with the legend KOPTVN1QN AXA1QN, which 
had previously been assigned to Gortys in Arcadia by 
the late Mr. Burgon (j Y um. Chron. xix, 235-36), cer- 
tainly belongs to the Cretan Gortyna {Sapp. Num. 



Hell. p. 110), thus proving that cities beyond the con- 
tinent were admitted into the League (R. S. Poole, 
Num. Chron., new scr., i, 173). About the same period 
there are evidences of an alliance, political or commer- 
cial, between Athens and several of the Cretan towns. 
Some of the coins of six of these — Cnossus, Cydonia, 
Gortyna, Hierapytna, Polyrrhenium, and Priansus — 
are tetradraclims, with exactly the types of those of 
Athens of the same age, but distinguished by having 
the distinctive badges of the Cretan towns. They 
were probably struck by the Cretan cities of the great 
alliance against Philip V of Macedon about B.C. 188 
(Pausan. i, 36, 5, 6; comp. Eckhel, Doct. Num. Vet. ii, 

! 221 ; Leake, Num. Hell. Insular Greece, p. 19 ; Poole, 
l. c.). As Cnossus declined, Gortyna rose to eminence, 
and became the metropolis of Crete. About A.D. 200 
a brother of Septimius Sevcrus held at Gortyna the 
office of proconsul and qurestor of the united provinces 
of Crete and Cvrene (Bockh, No. 2591). In the ar- 
rangement of the provinces by Constantine, Gortyna 
was still the metropolis of Crete (llierocl. Synecd. p. 
649 ; comp. Leake, Supp. Num. Hell. p. 157). 

The remains of Gortyna near Agliius Dheka (the 
ten Saints), and the cavern in the mountain, have been 
described by Tournefort {Relation d'lin Voyage du Le- 
vant ) and Pococke {Description of the East), and the 
cavern, more recently, by Mr. Cockerell (Walpole, ii, 
402). The modern Gortynians hold this cavern to be 
the Labyrinth, thus claiming for themselves the hon- 
ors of the myth of the Minotaur; but it does not ap- 
pear from the Gortynian coins, which date from the 
time of the Persian war to that of Hadrian (and there 
are none later), that their ancestors ever entertained 
such an idea (Leake, Nnm. Hell. Insular Greece, p. 18). 
The famous Labyrinth is represented on the coins of 
Cnossus, and Col. Leake says that “it is difficult to 
reconcile this fact with the existence of the Labyrinth 
near Gortyna, for that the excavation near Aghins 
Dheka, at the foot of Mount Ida, is the renowned Cre- 
tan labyrinth, cannot he doubted after the description 
of Tournefort, Pococke, and Cockerell” {Supp. Num. 
Hell. p. 156). This opinion is given notwithstanding 
the assertion of Pausanias (6 Iv K vmaatg XafSvpivOoc , 
i, 27, 9). One of the coins of Cnossus bears, besides 
! tiie Labyrinth on its reverse, the Minotaur on the ob- 
verse. It cannot be much later than the expedition 
of Xerxes, and thus affords evidence of the antiquity 
of the tradition of the Labyrinth, if not of its real ex- 
istence ; whereas Hock ( Kreta , i, 56 sq.), relying on 
the silence of Hesiod and Herodotus, and the assumed 
silence of Homer — though the Iliad contains what looks 
very like an allusion to the Cretan wonder {II. xviii, 
590 sq.) — has supposed it to have been an invention of 
the later poets borrowed from Egypt (Poole, ut. sup. i, 
171-72). A full account of the remains of the old site 
and the modern place is given in the Museum of Clas - 


GOSHEN 


930 


GOSHEN 


steal Antiquities (ii, 277-286). Mr. Falkener here de- 
scribes the cavern near Gortvna from Sieber, who 
spent three days in examining it, and says that cer- 
tainly it had been nothing more than a quarry, which 
probably supplied the stone for building the city (7 Itise 
nach der Insel Kreta , i, 511-520). I lock seems to hold 
similar views (. Kreta , i, 447-154). — Kitto, s. v. See 
Crete. 

Goshen (Heb. id. prob. of Egyptian origin, 
but unknown signif.), the name of at least two places. 

1. (Sept, usually I'talv or IT o4/<.) A province or 
district of Egypt in which Jacob and his family set- 
tled through the instrumentality of his son Joseph, 
and in which they and their descendants remained for 
a long period (Gen. xlv, 10; xlvi, 28, 20, 34 ; xlvii, 1, 
4, 6, 27; 1. 8; Exod. viii, 22; ix, 2G). (B.C. 1874- 

1658.) It is usually called the “land of Goshen” 
(V-y “country of Goshen,” Gen. xlvii, 27), but 
also “Goshen” simply (Gen. xlv, 28, first clause, 29). 
It appears to have borne another name, “the land of 
Rameses” (OS^n ]nx, Gen. xlvii, 11), unless this 
be the name of a district of Goshen. (See below.) 
That Goshen lay on the eastern side of the Nile may 
be justifiably inferred from the fact that Jacob is not 
reported to have crossed that river; nor does it appear 
that the Israelites did so in their flight out of Egypt. 
The various opinions that have been held on the" sub- 
ject may be found classified and considered by Beller- 
mann in his Hand 1 ), d r Bibl. Lit. iv, 191-220* Lake- 
macher (Obs. Phil, vi, 297 sq.) locates Goshen in the 
vicinity of Bubastis, not far from Tanis; but this is 
too far from Palestine. Bryant ( Obs . upon the ancient 
I 1 1st. of Egypt, p. 75 sq.) prefers the Saitie nonie, which 
likewise is too far west (comp. Eichhorn, Bibl. vi, 854 
sq.). Jablonsky ( De terra Gosm, Frcft. a. V. 1756; 
also in his Opusc. ii, 73) holds it to be the Ileracleotic 
nome; but this lay even west of the Nile (Michaelis, 
Suppl. i, 379 sq.). By comparing Exod. xiii, 17 and 1 
Chron. vii, 21, it appears that Goshen bordered on 
Arabia (see Gen. xlv, 10, Sept. Ttaip ’ Apctj3tai ;) as 
well as Palestine, and the passage of the Israelites out 
°f Egypt shows that the land was not far removed 
from the Red Sea. It appears probable that we may 
fix the locality of Goshen in Lower Egypt, on the east 
side of the Pelusiac branch of the Nil?, in the district 
around Heroopolis. The Sept, renders the words 
“ land of Goshen” (Gen. xlvi, 28), tcaO’ 'Mnibtov ~o\tv, 
tig yijr 'VajMatji'i, thus identifying Goshen with Ra- 
meses, or the district of Pitliom or Heroopolis. See, 
however, Rameses. This would make Goshen corre- 
spond with one of the divisions of what was anciently 
termed the Prcefectura Arabica, Ti-Arabia, the eastern 
district, living, that is, on the eastern or Arabian side 
of the Nile. This division was that of Heliopolis or 
On, M itiriyeli, or Ain-Sliwns. An attempt has been 
made to define it accurately, so as to identify Goshen 
(Roseniniiller, Alterthiim. iii, 246) with the Xomos Ara- 
bia} (Ptol. iv, 5), or the country of Esh-shar Kijah 
(the eastern land), which stretches south from Pelusi- 
u m as far as Belbeis (north-east from Cairo), and to 
the north-east borders of the desert El-Jefar. Traces 
are found here, it is thought, of the residence of the 
Israelites, in large heaps of mins, a few hours’ journey 
to the north-east of Cairo, which the Arabs call Tell el- 
Jehnd (.lews’ hills), or Turheh el- Jehad (Jews’ graves) i 
(Nielmhr, i, 100 ; com]). Seetzen, in Zaeh’s Corresp. xx, I 
460; Hartmann, Erdbesrhr. d. Aeg. p. 880 sq.). Rob- I 
insou (Researches, i, 37) makes light of the evidence 
supposed to he supplied by “the mounds of the Jews” 
just mentioned. lie says, “If there is any historic- 
al foundation for this name, which is doubtful, these 
mounds can only be referred hack to the period of the 
Ptolemies, in the centuries immediately before the 
Christian a?ra, when great numbers of Jews resorted to 
Egypt and erected a temple' at Leontopolis.” This j 
opinion, however, appears to us somewhat arbitrary. | 


M hatever the actual origin of these mounds, the ordL 
nary account of them may be the transmission or echo 
ol a ver}' ancient tradition. Robinson, however, does 
not den} 1- that Goshen is to be found about where the 
best authorities ordinarily place it ( Researches , i, 76). 
41ie district east of the Pelusiac Nile was suitable for 
a nomadic people, who would have been misplaced in 
the narrow limits of the valley of the Nile (Ilaekett’s 
Illust. of /Script. p. 27). “The water of the Nile soaks 
through the earth tor some distance under the sandy 
tract (the neighborhood of Heliopolis), and is every- 
where found on digging wells eighteen or twenty feet 
deep. Such wells are very frequent in parts which 
the inundation does not reach. The water is raised 
from them by wheels turned by oxen, and applied to 
the irrigation of the lields. Whenever this takes place 
the desert is turned into a fruitful field. In passing 
to Heliopolis we saw several such fields in the differ- 
ent stages of being reclaimed from the desert; some 
just laid out, others already fertile. In returning by 
j another way more eastward, we passed a succession of 
beautiful plantations wholly dependent on this mode 
of irrigation” (Robinson, Researches , i, 36). J. D. Mi- 
chaelis was of opinion (Spicil. p. 371) that Goshen ex- 
tended from Palestine along the Mediterranean as far 
as the Tanitic mouth of the Nile, and thence inland 
up to Heliopolis, embracing a sweep of country so as 
to take in a part of Arabia bordering on Egypt. Ac- 
cording to Bois Av me (Descrip, de VEggpte , viii, 111) 
Goshen was the valley Sabal-yar, which begins in the 
vicinity of Belbeis, and embraces the district of Hero- 
opolis. Laborde (Arabia Petnea , p. 5s) fixes Goshen 
in the country around Belbeis, on the eastern side of 
the Nile. M. Quatremere has endeavored to define 
the locality, and, by comparing several passages col- 
lected from different writers, he infers that the wady 
Tnmilat (wady Tomlate in Laborde), in which the ca- 
nal of Cairo terminates, is the land of Goshen : such, 
at least, seems to have been the opinion of Saatlias and 
Aim S aid, the authors of the earliest Arabic versions 
of the Old Testament — the one for the use of the Jews, 
and the other for that of the Samaritans (Mem. Geogr. 
sar V Egypte, i, 61). This position is confirmed by the 
Biblical notices. The first mention of Goshen is in 
Joseph’s message to his father (Gen. xlv, 10), which 
shows that the territor} r was near the usual royal res- 
idence, or the residence of Joseph’s Pharaoh. The 
dynasty to which this king belonged appears to have 
resided part of the year at Memphis, and part of the 
year, at harvest-time, at Avaris, on the Bubastite or 
Pelusiac branch of the Nile: this, Manetho tells ns, 
was the custom of the first Shepherd king (Josephus, 
r. Ap. i, 14). From the account of the arrival of Jacob 
(Gen. xlvi, 28, 29) it is evident that Goshen was be- 
tween Joseph’s residence at the time and the frontier 
of Palestine, and apparently the extreme province to- 
wards that frontier. The advice that Joseph gave his 
brethren as to their conduct to Pharaoh further char- 
acterizes the territory as a grazing one (Gen. xlvi, 
33, 34). (It is remarkable that in Coptic shbs signifies 
both “a shepherd” and “ disgrace,” and the like, Ros- 
sellini, Monumenti Storin', i. 177.) This passage shows 
that Goshen was scarcely regarded as a part of Egypt 
Proper, and was not peopled by Egyptians — charac- 
teristics that would positively indicate a frontier prov- 
ince. But it is not to lie inferred that Goshen had no 
Egyptian inhabitants at this period : at the time of the 
ten plagues such are distinctly mentioned. That there 
was, moreover, a foreign population besides the Israel- 
ites seems evident from the account of the calamity of 
Ephraim’s house (1 Chron. vii, 20-30) [see Beriah], 
and the mention of the “mixed multitude” (-“ Sir) 
who went out at the Exodus (Exod. xii, 38), notices 
referring to the earlier and the later period of the so- 
journ. The name Goshen may possibly be Hebrew, 
or Shemitic — although we do not venture with Jerome 


GOSHEN 


931 


GOSHEN 


to derive it from t 125— for it also occurs as the name 
of a district and of a town in the south of Palestine 
(see below, No. 2), where we could scarcely expect an 
appellation of Egyptian origin unless given after the 
Exodus, which in this case does not seem likely. Jt 
is also noticeable that some of the names of places in 
Goshen or its neighborhood, as certainly Migdol and 
Baal-zephon (q. v.), are Shemitic, the only positive ex- 
ceptions being the cities Pithom and Raineses, built 
during the oppression. The next mention of Goshen 
confirms the previous inference that its position was 
between Canaan and the Delta (Gen. xlvii, 1). The 
nature of the country is indicated still more clearly 
than in the passage last quoted in the answer of Pha- 
raoh to the request of Joseph’s brethren, and in the 
account of their settling (Gen. xlvii, 5, C, 11). Go- 
shen was thus a pastoral country where some of Pha- 
raoh’s cattle were kept. The expression “ in the best 
of the land” Oj’^Xn 22"’*£2) must, we think, be rela- 
tive, the best of the land for a pastoral people (al- 
though we do not accept Michaclis’s reading “pas- 
tures” by comparison with the Arabic, SuppL p. 1072 ; 
see Gesen. Thes. s. v. 2-^2), for in the matter of fer- 
tility the richest parts of Egypt are those nearest to 
the Nile, a position which, as has been seen, we cannot 
assign to Goshen. The sufficiency of this tract for 


the Israelites, their prosperity there, and their virtual 
separation, as is evident from the account of the 
plagues, from the great body of the Egyptians, must 
also be borne in mind. The clearest indications of the 
exact position of Goshen are those afforded by the nar- 
rative of the Exodus. The Israelites set out from the 
town of Raineses, in the land of Goshen, made two 
days’ journey to the “edge of the wilderness,” and in 
one day more reached the Red Sea. At the starting- 
point two routes lay before them, “the way of the 
land of the Philistines . . . that [was] near,” and 
“the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea” (Exod. 
xiii, 17, 18). It is also represented, in conformity 
with this position, at the last great struggle, as com- 
paratively near to Palestine, by the route that lay 
through the land of the Philistines (Exod. xiii, 17). 
Then, while the Israelites do not appear to have had 
any considerable settlements on the further side of the 
Nile, yet it is clear they were in a position that admit- 
ted of ready access to it : it was on the river (whether 
the main stream or one of the branches) that the in- 
fant Moses was exposed ; in connection with it also 
that several of the miracles wrought by Moses were 
performed ; and the fish of which they had been wont 
to partake, and the modes of irrigation with which 
they were familiar, bespoke a residence somewhere in 
its neighborhood (Exod. ii, 5; vii, 19 ; viii, 5; Numb. 



Nap of the Land of Goshen and its Vicinity. 


GOSIIEX 


932 


GOSPEL 


vi, 5 ; Deut. xi, 10). Yet the locality occupied by the | Egypt for the land itself (sec Kurtz, Hist. of Old Cor. 
Israelites could not have been very near the Kile, § 41).— Smith, s. v. ; Ivitto, s. v. ; Fairbairn, s. v. bee 
since three days were suflieient for their going into the Egypt. 


wilderness to keep a feast to the Lord (£xod. v, 3). 
From these indications we infer that the land of Go- 


2. (Sept. Too-d/*; Vulg. Gessen, Gozen), the “land” 


x iuijj must uiuicauuiid \\ t; iinei tnaL two uuiu oi Vjiu- .i L , , ri ,i , ,, , . 

i . . , , , ,, , . . . i oi tlie country fboth » ^ Kl ot Goshen, twice named 

slien must m part have been near the eastern side of . * L ‘ . ’ 

the ancient Delta, Bameses lying within the valley as a distnct in southern Palestine, included in the con- 
now called the wady ct-Tumevlat, about thirty miles l 9 lG ^ s ° Joshua (* osh. x,41; xi, lb), from the first 
in a direct course from the ancient western shore of °f * hese 'vouM seem to have lain between Gaza and 
the Arabian Gulf. Sec Exude. The superficial ex- ^;^on, and therefore to be some part of the maritime 


tent of this wadv, if we include the whole cultivable 
part of the natural valley, which may somewhat ex- 
ceed that of the tract bearing this appellation, is prob- 
ably under sixty square geographical miles. If we 
suppose the entire Israelitish population at the time of 
the Exodus to have been 1,800,000, and the whole 


plain of Judah ; but in the latter passage that plain, 
the Sheflah, is expressly specified (here with the arti- 
cle) in addition to Goshen. In this place, too, the sit- 
uation of Goshen — if the order of the statement be any 
indication — would seem to be between the “south” 
and the Shefelah (A. V. “valley”). If Goshen was 


population, including Egyptians and foreigners other , ? n * v . 1 V ort ' on not possible that its 

V * .. . 1 » .. ° _ LiVflllhr mnv cn ff.facfml <■ lin r. + /> *-1,^ I,,..., 


than the Israelites, about 2,000,000, this would give 
no less than between 30,000 and 40,000 inhabitants to 
the square mile, which would be half as dense as the 
ordinary population of an Eastern city. It must be 
remembered, however, that we need not suppose the 
Israelites to have been limited to the valley for pas- 
ture, but, like the Arabs, to have led their docks into 
fertile tracts of the deserts around, and that we have 
taken for our estimate an extreme sum, that of the 
people at the Exodus. For the greater part of the 
sojourn their numbers must have been far lower, and 
before the Exodus they seem to have been partly 
spread about the territory of the oppressor, although 
collected at Bameses at the time of their departure. 

One very large place, like the Shepherd stronghold of 
Avaris, which 31anctlio relates to have had at the first 
a garrison of 240,000 men, would also greatly diminish 
the disproportion of population to superficies. The 
very small superficial extent of Egypt in relation to 
the population necessary to the construction of the 
vast monuments, and the maintenance of the great 
armies of the Pharaohs, requires a different proportion 
to that of other countries — a condition fully explained 
bv the extraordinary fertility of the soil. Even now, 
when the population is almost at the lowest point it 
has reached in history, when villages have replaced 
towns, and hamlets villages, it is still denser than that 
of many parts of England. It is not necessary, how- 
ever, to suppose that during the whole period of the 
sojourn in Egypt the Israelites continued to dwell al- 
together within the same region : as they multiplied 
in number, and in process of time began to devote 
themselves to other occupations, they would naturally 
extend their settlements, and, at various points, be- include not only the ‘proclaiming’ of the good tidings, 


fertility may have suggested the name to the Israel- 
ites? On the other hand, the name may he far older, 
and may retain a trace of early intercourse between 
Egypt and the south of the promised land. For such 
intercourse comp. 1 Chron. vii, 21. — Smith, s. v. The 
name may even have been extended from Ko. 3 below 
(see Keil, On Josh. p. 280). 

3. (Sept. Fo<jo/<, Vulg. Gosen.') A town of the same 
name is once mentioned (between Anim and Holon) 
in company with Dchir, Socoh, and others, as in the 
mountains of Judah (Josh, xv, 51), in the group on the 
south-western part of the hills (see Keil, Josh. p. 384). 
It is probably the origin of the application to an adja- 
cent region (Ko. 2, above), for it is not likely that two 
entirely different places would be called by the same 
name, both in the southern quarter of Judah. From 
the mention of Gaza (Josh, x, 41) and the route of 
Joshua (ver. 10), the locality in question would seem 
to be situated in the gore of Judah, running up be- 
tween the territories of Benjamin and Dan, now occu- 
pied by the Beni-Malik, south of Kirjath-Jcarim (eomp. 
Bobinson's Researches , ii, 337). See Judah, Tin he 
ok. 

Gospel. This word, “conformably to its etymo- 
logical meaning of Good-tidings , is used to signify, (1.) 
The welcome intelligence of salvation to man, as preach- 
ed by our Lord and his followers. (2.) It was after- 
wards transitively applied to each of the four histories 
of our Lord's life , published by those who are” there- 
fore called “Evangelists,” writers of the history of 
the Gospel (ibayyiXiov'). (3.) “The term is often 
used to express collectively the Gospel -doctri nes ; and 
preaching the Gospel’ is accordingly often used to 


come more intermingled with the. population of Egypt. 
It is quite possible that certain of their number cross- 
ed the Felusiae arm of the Kile, and acquired dwell- 
ings or possessions in the tract lying between it and 
the Tanitie (Bobinson, Researches, i, 73; llengsten- 
berg, Egypt and Boohs of Moses , p. 45). Particular 
families may have also shot out in other directions ; 
and in this way would naturally arise that freer inter- 
course between them and the families of Egypt which 
appears to be implied in some of the later notices 
(Exod. xi, 2; xii, 12-23), Still, what we have indi- 
cated above as the land of Goshen, the district in 
■which the original settlers from Canaan were assigned 
a home, continued to the last the head-quarters of the 
covenant people (see Geiger, De regno Ebrasoruni in 
^lurb. 1759). From the field of Zoan being 
mentioned in connection with the wonders of Closes 
(Psa. lxxviii, 12, 43), some have supposed that the 
town of that name, situated in the Tanitie nomc, must 
have been the capital of Pharaoh at the time. Bo- 
chart and Ilcngstcnberg, among others, have advoca- 
ted this view, and said nearly all that is possible for 


but the ‘teaching’ men how to avail themselves of the 
offer of salvation the declaring of all the truths, 
precepts, promises, and threatening;; of Christianity. 
It is termed “the Gospel of the grace of God,” be- 
cause it flows from God’s free love and goodness (Acts 
xx, 24); and, when truly and faithfully preached, is 
accompanied with the influences of the divine Spirit. 
It is called “the Gospel of the kingdom,” because it 
treats of the kingdom of grace, and shows the way to 
the kingdom of glory. It is styled “ the Gospel of 
Christ” because lie is the author and great subject of 
it (Bom. i, 1G); and “the Gospel of peace and salva- 
tion,” because it publishes peace with God to the pen- 
itent and believing, gives, to such, peace of conscience 
and tranquillity of mind, and is the means of their sal- 
vation, present and eternal. As it displays the glory 
of God and of Christ, and ensures to his true followers 
eternal glory, it is entitled “the glorious Gospel” and 
“ the everlasting Gospel,” because it commenced from 
the fall of man, is permanent throughout all time, and 
produces effects which arc everlasting. This use of 
the word “gospel” has led some to suppose that Gos- 


it, but they have not been able to establish the point pel-truth is to be found exclusively or chiefly in the 
altogether satisfactorily ; and it is quite probable that “Gospels,” to the neglect of the other sacred writ- 
Zoan, in the passage referred to, is used in a general ings ; and others, to conclude that the discourses of 
sense, as a kind of representative city in the land of I our Lord and the apostolic epistles must exactly coin- 


GOSPELLER 


933 


GOSPELS 


cide,- and that in case of any apparent difference., the 
former must be the standard, and the latter must be 
taken to bear no other sense than what is implied by 
the other. Whereas, it is very conceivable, that though 
both might be, in a certain sense, “good tidings,” yet 
one may contain a much more full development of the 
Christian scheme than the other (Eden ; Watson). It 
has been disputed whether the Gospel consists merely 
of promises, or whether it can in any sense be called a 
law. The answer plainly depends upon adjusting the 
meaning of the words gospel and law. If the gospel 
be taken for the declaration God has made to men by 
Christ, concerning the manner in which he will treat 
them, and the conduct he expects from them, it is 
plain that this includes commands, and even threaten- 
ings, as well as promises ; but to define the Gospel so 
as only to express the favorable part of that declara- 
tion, is indeed taking the question for granted, and 
confining the word to a sense much less extensive than 
it often has in Scripture (comp. Horn, ii, 1G ; 2 Thess. 
i, 8 ; 1 Tim. i, 9-11) ; and it is certain that, if the Gos- 
pel be put for all the parts of the dispensation taken in 
connection one with another, it may well be called, on 
the whole, a good message. In like manner the ques- 
tion, whether the Gospel be a law or not, is to be de- 
termined by the definition of the law and of the Gos- 
pel, as above. If law signifies, as it generally does, 
the discovery of the will of a superior, teaching what 
he requires of those under his government, with the 
intimation of his intention of dispensing rewards and 
punishments, as this rule of their conduct is observed 
or neglected ; in this latitude of expression it is plain, 
from the proposition, that the Gospel, taken for the 
declaration made to men by Christ, is a law , as in 
Scripture it is sometimes called (James i, 25 ; Horn, iv, 
15; viii, 2). But if law be taken, in the greatest rigor 
of the expression, for such a discovery of the will of 
God and our duty, as to contain in it no intimation of 
our obtaining the divine favor otherwise than by. a 
perfect and universal conformity to it, in that sense 
the Gospel is not a law. See Witsius, On the Cove- 
nants , vol. iii, ch. i ; Doddridge, Lectures, lect. clxxii ; 
Watts, Orthodoxy and Charity , Essay ii ; Buck, s. v. 

GOSPEL SIDE of the Altar, the right side of 
the altar or communion-table, looking from it, at which, 
in the English Church service, the Gospel appointed 
for the day is read. It is of higher distinction than 
the epistle side, and is occupied by the clergyman of 
highest ecclesiastical rank who happens to be present. 
In some cathedrals, one of the clergy has this special 
duty to perform, and is designated the Gospeller. 

Gospeller. (1.) A term of reproach, though real- 
13 ' an honorable epithet, applied by the Romanists to 
those who advocate the circulation of the Scriptures. 
It was first given in England to the followers of Wiek- 
lifte, when that eminent reformer translated the New 
Testament (Eden). (2.) A term applied in the Refor- 
mation period to certain Antinomians. “ I do not find 
anything objected to them as to their belief, save only 
that the doctrine of predestination having been gener- 
ally taught by the reformers, many of this sect began 
to make strange inferences from it, reckoning that 
since everything is decreed, and the decrees of God 
could not be frustrated, therefore men were to leave 
themselves to he carried by these decrees. This drew 
some into great impiet) T of life, and others into desper- 
ation. The Germans soon saw the ill effects of this 
doctrine. Luther changed his mind about it, and Me- 
lanctlion openly writ against it; and since that time 
the whole stream of the Lutheran churches has run 
the other way. But both Calvin and Bucer were still 
for maintaining the doctrine of these decrees ; only 
the)' warned the people not to think much of them, 
since the}' were secrets which men could not penetrate 
into ; but the)' did. not so clearly show how these con- 
sequences did not flow from such opinions. Hooper, 


1 and many other good writers, did often dehort people 
from entering into these curiosities ; and a caveat to 
that same purpose was put afterwards into the article 
of the Church about predestination” (Burnet, History 
of Reformation , pt. ii, bk. i, p. 180). (3.) It is custom- 
ary in the Church of England for the ministers to read 
the gospel and epistle for the day at the communion- 
table. He who read the gospel, standing at the north 
side of the altar, was formerly called the Gospeller ; 
and he who read the epistle at the opposite side, was 
called the Epistoler. In the canons of queen Eliza- 
beth, we find that a special reader, entitled an Episto- 
ler, is to read the epistle in collegiate churches, vested 
in a cope (Farrar). 

Gospels, a term evidently of Anglo-Saxon origin 
(according to some, i. q. God's Spell, i. e. Word of 
God ; but according to most and better authorities, i. 
q. good spell, i. e. glad news) is the rendering of shay- 
j yiXiov, lit. good message (originally spoken of a reward 
for good news, Homer, Odyssey, xiv,152, 1GG; Plutarch, 
Ages. 33; then of glad tidings itself, and so Sept, for 
•"PiuT2, 2 Sam. xviii, 20, 22), constantly used in the 
N. T. (but not in Luke nor by John, and only twice 
in Acts, once in Feter, and once in Rev.) to denote, 
1. r Ihe annunciation of the kingdom of the Messiah, as 
ushered in by the coming and life of Christ ; 2. The 
Gospel scheme or plan of salvation thus inaugurated, 
especially in its promulgations; and, 3. The records or 
histories which constitute the original documents of 
this system of faith and practice. Justin Martyr em- 
ploys for the last the less appropriate term enzogrtv- 
ftara , memoirs ; and other ancient writers occasionally 
style them fiioi, lives ; but they were not so much de- 
signed as biographical sketches, whether complete or 
otherwise, but rather as outlines of the divine econo- 
my introduced in the New Dispensation. The central 
point of Christian preaching was the joyful intelli- 
gence that the Saviour had come into the world (Matt, 
iv, 23 ; Rom. x, 15) ; and the first Christian preachers, 
who characterized their account of the person and mis- 
sion of Christ by the term tvayye Ator, were themselves 
called tvayytXiorai (Eplies. iv, 11 ; Acts xxi, 8). The 
former name was also prefixed to the written accounts 
of Christ; and as this intelligence was noted down by 
various writers in various forms, the particle Kara, 
“according to” (e. g. tvayyiXiov Kara M arOaior) was 
inserted. We possess four such accounts ; the first by 
Matthew, announcing the Redeemer as the promised 
King of the kingdom of God ; the second by Mark, de- 
claring him “a prophet mighty in deed and word” 
(Luke xxiv, 19); the third by Luke, of whom it might 
be said that he represented Christ in the special char- 
acter of the Saviour of sinners (Luke vii, 3G sq. ; xv, 
18-9 sq.) ; the fourth by John, who represents Christ 
as the Son of God, in whom deity and humanity be- 
came one. The ancient Church gave to Matthew the 
symbol of the ox, to Mark that of the lion, to Luke that 
of the man, and to John that of the eagle; these were 
the four faces of the cherubim. The cloud in which 
the Lord revealed himself was borne by the cherubim, 
and the four evangelists were also the bearers of that 
glory of God which appeared in the form of man. 

I. Relative Position. — Concerning the order which 
they occupy in the Scriptures, the oldest Latin and 
Gothic versions, as also the Codex Cantabrigiensis, 
place Matthew and John first, and after them Mark 
and Luke, while the other MSS. and old versions fub 
low the order given to them in our Bibles. As dog 
matical reasons render a different order more natural, 
there is much in favor of the opinion that their usual 
position arose from regard to the chronological dates 
of the respective composition of the four gospels (see 
Seiler, Be tempore et or dine quibus tria Evangg. priora 
scripta sunt, Erlang. 1805 sq.) : this is the opinion of 
Origen, Trenails, and Eusebius. All ancient testimo- 
nies agree that Matthew was the earliest and John the 


GOSPELS 


934 


GOSPELS 


latest evangelist. — Ivitto, s. v. For the dates, see 
each gospel. See also Tischendorf’s tract, Wann mir- 
dtn unsere Evanyelien re rf asst? (2d ed. Lpz. 1805). 

II. Authenticity. — It may fairly he said that the 
genuineness of these four narratives rests upon better 
evidence than that of any other ancient writings. 
They were all composed during the latter half of the 
1st century. Before the end of the 2d century there 
is abundant evidence that t he four gospels, as one col- 
lection, were generally used and accepted. Ircnaeus, 
who suffered martyrdom about A.D. 202, the disciple 
of Polycarp and Papias, who, from having been in 
Asia, in Gaul, and in Borne, had ample means of know- 
ing the belief of various churches, says that the au- 
thority of the four gospels was so continued that even 
the heretics of his time could not reject them, but were 
obliged to attempt to prove their tenets out of one or 
other of them ( Coutr . llcer. iii, 11, § 7). Tertullian, in 
a work written about A.D. 208, mentions the four gos- 
pels, two of them as the work of apostles, and two as 
that of the disciples of apostles (a post olid ) ; and rests 
their authority on their apostolic origin (Adc. Marciun. 
iv, eb. ii). Origen, who was born about A.D. 185, and 
died A.D. 253, describes the gospels in a characteristic 
strain of metaphor as “ the [four] elements of the 
Church’s faith, of which the whole world, reconciled 
to God in Christ, is composed” (/» Johan.). Else- 
where, in commenting on the opening words of Luke, 
he draws a line between the inspired Gospels and such 
productions as “the Gospel according to the Egyp- 
tians,” “ the Gospel of the Twelve,” and the like (Jfo- 
mil. in Luc. iii, p. 932 sq.). Although Theophilus, who 
became sixth (seventh ?) bishop of Antioch about A.D. 
108, speaks only of “the gospels,” without adding, at 
least in that connection, the names of the authors (Ad 
Autol. iii, p. 121, 125), we might fairly conclude with 
Gieseler that he refers to the collection of four, already 
known in his time. But from Jerome we know that 
Theophilus arranged the records of the four evangel- 
ists into one work ( Epist . ad Alyas, iv, p. 197). Ta- 
tian, who died about A.D. 170 (?), compiled a Diates- 
saron , or Ilarmon}' of the Gospels. The Muratorian 
fragment (Muratori, Antiq. Jt. iii, 854; Louth, Reliq. S. 
vol. iv), which, even if it be not bv Cains and of the 
2d century, is at least a very old monument of the Bo- 
man Church, describes the gospels of Luke and John ; 
but time and carelessness seem to have destroyed t he 
sentences relating to Matthew and Mark. Another 
source of evidence is open to us in the citations from 
the gospels found in the earliest writers. Barnabas, 
Clemens Bomanus, and Polycarp quote passages from 
them, but not with verbal exactness. The testimony 
of Ju.'tfn Martyr (born about A.D. 99, martyred A.D. 
1G5) is much fuller; many of his quotations are sub- 
stantially found in the gospels of Matthew, Luke, 
probably of John, and possibly of Mark also, whose 
words it is more difficult to separate. The quotations 
from Matthew are the most numerous. In historical 
references, the mode of quotation is more free, and the 
narrative occasionally unites those of Matthew and 
Luke: in a very few cases he alludes to matters not 
mentioned in the canonical gospels (see Sernisch, 
A post. Denku'urdirjk. d. M. Justin. I Iamb. 1818). Be- 
sides these, Matthew appears to be quoted by the au- 
thor of the epistle to Diognctus, by TIegcsippus, Ire- 
incus. Tatian, Athenagoras, and Theophilus. Eusebius 
records that Bantam us found in India (the south of 
Arabia?) Christians who used the gospel of Matthew. 
All this shows that long before the end of the 2d cen- 
tury the gospel of Matthew was in general use. From 
the fact that Mark’s gospel lias few places peculiar to 
it, it is more difficult to identify citations not express- . 
ly assigned to him ; hut Justin Martyr and Athenago- 
ras appear to quote his gospel, and Irenams doe's so hv I 
name. Luke is quoted by J-ustin, Irenams, Tatian, 
Athenagoras, and Theophilus; and John by all of 
these, with the addition of Ignatius, the epistle to Di- i 


ognetus, and Polycrafes. From these we may con- 
dude that before the end of the second century the 
Gospel collection was well known and in general use. 
There is yet another line of evidence. The heretical 
j sects, as well as the fathers of the Church, knew the 
1 gospels; and as there was the greatest hostility be- 
tween them, if the gospels had become known in the 
Church after the dissension arose, the heretics would 
never have accepted them as genuine from such a 
quarter. Both t lie Gnostics and Marcionites arose 
early in the 2d century; and therefore it is probable 
that the gospels were then accepted, and thus they are 
traced back almost to the times of the apostles (Ols- 
hausen). Upon a review of all the witnesses, from 
the apostolic fathers down to the Canon of the Laodi- 
j cean Council in 8G1, and that of the third Council of 
Carthage in 397, in both of which the four gospels are 
numbered in the Canon of Scripture, there can hardly 
be room for any candid person to doubt that from the 
first the four gospels were recognised as genuine and 
as inspired ; that a sharp line of distinction was drawn 
between them and the so-called apocryphal gospels, 
of which the number was very great ; that, from the 
citations of passages, the gospels bearing these four 
names were the same as those which we possess in our 
Bibles under the same names; that unbelievers, like 
Celsus, did not deny the genuineness of the gospels, 
even when rejecting their contents; and, lastly, that 
heretics thought it necessary to plead some kind of 
| sanction out of the gospels for their doctrines: nor 
could they venture on the easier path of an entire re- 
jection, because the gospels were everywhere known 
to be genuine. As a matter of literary history, nothing 
can be better established than the genuineness of the 
gospels ; and if in these latest times they have been 
assailed, it is plain that theological doubts have been 
concerned in the attack. The authority of the books 
has been denied from a wish to set aside their con- 
tents. Out of a mass of authorities the following may 
be selected : Norton, Genuineness of the Gospels (Bost. 
181G-8, 3 vols.) ; Ivirehhofer, Qnellensammltmg zur Gc- 
schichte des X.-T. Canons (Zurich, 1841); De Wette, 
Lehrbuch der hist.-krit . Einleituny , etc. (6th ed., Berlin, 
I860; tr. Bost. 1858); Hug’s Einleituny (tr. with notes, 
Andover, 183G) ; Olshansen, Bihlische.r Commentar. In- 
troduction, and his Echtheit der 1 Canon. Evanyelien 
(Kdnigsb. 1823); Jones, Method of sett liny the canoni- 
cal Authority of the X. T. (Oxf. i 7 98, 2 vols.): Baur, 
Krit . Untersuchunyen fiber die Canon. Evanyelien (Tub. 
1817); Beuss, Gesch. des X. T. (4th ed., Brunswick, 
18G4); Alford’s Greek Testament , Prolegomena, vol. i; 
Westcott’s History of X.-T ~ Canon (2d ed. Loud. 18GG) ; 
Gieseler, Jlistorisch-kritischer Yersneh fiber die Enste - 
huny, etc., der schriftlichen Evanyelien (Lpz. 1818). — 
Smith, s. v. 

III. Mutual Relation and Origin. — “Many portions 
of the history of Jesus” (remarks Mr. Norton, who has 
minutely investigated the subject) “are found in com- 
mon in the first three gospels, others are common to 
tiro of their number, but not found in the third. In 
the passages referred to, there is generally a similar- 
ity, sometimes a very great similarity, in the selection 
of particular circumstances, in the aspect under which 
the event is viewed, and the style in which it is re- 
lated. Sometimes the language found in different gos- 
pels, though not identical, is equivalent or nearly equiv- 
alent ; and not ^infrequently, the same series of words, 
with or without slight variations, occurs throughout 
the whole or a great part of a sentence, and even in 
larger portions” ( Genuineness of the Gospels , i, 210). 
Mr. AVestcott exhibits the proportion of correspond- 
ences and peculiarities in several numerical tables: 
“If the extent of all the coincidences be represented 
by 100, their proportionate distribution will be, Mat- 
thew, Mark, and Luke, 53; Matthewand Luke, 21 ; Mat- 
thew and Mark, 20 ; Mark and Luke, G. . . . Looking 
only at the general result, it may be said that of the 


GOSPELS 


935 


GOSPELS 


contents of the synoptic gospels, about two fifths are 
common to the three, and that the parts peculiar to 
one or other of them are little more than one third of 
the whole.” He adds, li in the distribution of the ver- 
bal coincidences a very simple law is observable ; they 
occur most commonly in the recital of the words of 
our Lord or of others, and are comparatively rare in 
the simple narrative. Thus, of t he verbal coincidences 
in Matthew, about seven eighths; of those in Mark, 
about four fifths; and of those in Luke, about nine- 
teen twentieths, occur in the record of the words of 
others” ( Introduction to the Study of the Gospels, p. 179). 
The following instances ma} r be referred to for illus- 
tration, Matt, viii, 2, 3 = Mark i, 40, 42 — Luke v, 12,13; 
Matt, ix, 5, 6 = Mark ii, 9, 11 — Luke v, 23, 24; Matt, 
xix, 23, 24 =Mark x, 23-25 = Luke xviii, 24, 25. The 
amount of agreement, however remarkable, ought not 
to be overrated ; it occurs chiefly in reporting the 
words of Christ. Norton gives, as the most striking 
instance of verbal coincidence in the case of narrative, 
Luke ix, 1G (comp. Matt, xiv, 19 ; Mark vi, 41). Along 
with the instances of correspondence, there are also 
many instances of difference. This renders the prob- 
lem difficult of solution. No explanation can be sat- 
isfactory which does not account for both the corre- 
spondences and differences. Such is the phenomenon 
which lias provoked so many attempts at explanation. 
The literature of the subject is of vast extent, and the 
question is regarded as still unsettled. Our aim in 
the present article is to inquire how near the principal 
hypotheses which have been proposed approach to a 
solution of the difficulty. 

1. In order to account for this singular relationship 
between the synoptic gospels, the first supposition is 
that the evangelists copied from one another, or that 
one evangelist, used the gospels of his predecessors, 
making such extracts as he thought necessary, with 
alterations and additions of his own. It is a curious 
circumstance, however, that the supposition of any one 
of the evangelists copying from the others is attended 
with insuperable difficulty. 'Whichever of them we 
suppose to be the original evangelist, and whichever 
we suppose to be the last, having one or both the oth- 
ers before him, we are unable in this way to explain 
the phenomenon. There are six possible ways of put- 
ting the case, every one of which has had learned ad- 
vocates, and this variety of opinion itself is a strong 
argument against the hypothesis. Griesbach thought 
that Mark copied from Matthew and Luke, and this 
opinion is still held by some ; but an opinion in favor 
of the originality of Mark has of late been gaining 
ground (Thiersch, Meyer, ’Weiss). It must, we think, 
be evident to any one who attentively compares the 
gospels of Matthew and Mark, that the latter cannot 
with any propriety be called a copy or abridgment of 
the former. There is an air of originality'" and fresh- 
ness in Mark's narrative which proves the work to be 
anything but a compilation ; and besides, in several 
important particulars, Mark differs from Matthew. 
No explanation can be satisfactory which does not ac- 
count for the want of agreement as well as the agree- 
ment between the gospels. Indeed, it is not easy to 
see what object Mark or any other of the evangelists 
could have in compiling a new gospel out of one or 
more which were acknowledged to be the works of 
apostles or their companions. “ In its simple form, 
the ‘supplemental’ or 1 dependent’ theory is at once in- 
adequate for the solution of the difficulties of the rela- 
tion of the synoptic gospels, and inconsistent with 
many of its details ; and, as a natural consequence of 
a deeper study of the gospels, it is now generally aban- 
doned, except in combination with other principles of 
solution” (Westcott, On the Gospels , p. 184). 

2. We are thus brought to consider Eichhorn’s fa- 
mous hypothesis of a so-called original gospel, now lost. 
A brief written narrative of the life of Christ is sup- 
posed to have been in existence, and to have had addi- 


tions made to it at different periods. Various copies 
of this original gospel, with these additions, being ex- 
tant in the time of the evangelists, each of the evan- 
gelists is supposed to have used a different copy as the 
basis of his gospel. In the hands of bishop Marsh, 
who adopted and modified the hypothesis of Eichhorn, 
this original gospel becomes a very complex thing, 
lie supposed that there was a Greek translation of the 
Aramaean original gospel, and various transcripts with 
alterations and additions. Hut when it is considered 
that all these suppositions are entirely gratuitous, that 
they are made only to meet the emergencies of the 
case as they arise, one cannot help feeling that the li- 
cense of hypothesis is carried beyond just bounds. The 
grand objection to this original gospel is the entire 
want of historical evidence for its existence. If such 
an original gospel ever had existed, it must have been 
of the very highest authority, and, instead of being 
tampered with, would have been carefully preserved in 
its original form, or at least in its Greek translation. 
The alterations and additions supposed to have been 
J made in it are not only inconsistent with its sacred and 
j authoritative character as the original gospel, but also 
with the habits of the Jews. Even if this hypothesis 
did adequately explain the phenomena presented in 
the first three gospels, it is far too artificially contrived 
to be true ; but it fails of its aim. The original work, 
supposed to consist of the sections common to the three 
gospels, cannot be made out ; and the individuality of 
character belonging to each of the evangelists is irre- 
concilable with the supposition that several different 
writers contributed materials. Notwithstanding the 
identity of subject among the three gospels, each writer 
is distinguished by iiis own characteristic style. It is 
remarkable that Dr. Weiss, of Konigsberg, has quite 
recently (Stud. ii. Kritik. 1SG1, i, iv) propounded a the- 
ory of explanation very much akin to that of Marsh. 
He supposes that the first evangelist, the writer of 
Matthew’s Gospel, as well as Luke, used a copy of 
Mark’s Gospel, and, along with this, a second more an- 
cient, perhaps immediately apostolic written source, 
which Maik also had already made use of in the com- 
position of his gospel. In this way he thinks all the 
phenomena are simply and easily explained. He en- 
deavors to establish his view by a detailed examina- 
tion and comparison of the three synoptic gospels, and 
holds that these results of criticism are confirmed by 
the ancient tradition that Matthew wrote his gospel in 
Hebrew, while there is no trace of the Hebrew gospel 
itself. The conclusion is that the Hebrew gospel of 
Matthew must have been displaced at an early period 
by another containing its essential contents, but richer 
and more generally accessible in its Greek form. 
Hence the later Greek gospel was held to be the work 
of Matthew the apostle, the more ancient Hebrew one 
having been really the apostle’s work. This revival 
in the present da} r of what is substantially the hypoth- 
esis of Eichhorn and Maish is significant of the still 
unsettled state of the question. 

3. That our present gospels are to be traced mainly 
to the oral teaching of the apostles as their source, was 
the opinion of Herder and Gieseler, and more recently 
of I)e Wette, Guericke, Norton, Westcott, and others. 
“ They have correctly apprehended” (says De Wette) 
“the spirit of Christian antiquity who regard the oral 
tradition of the gospel (the oral original gospel ) as the 
basis and source of all the Christian gospels, and who 
endeavor to apprehend the history of the origin of the 
latter in a definite relation to the former” (Introd.to 
N. T ., sec. 87). The gospel was published orally be- 
fore it was committed to writing, and the preaching of 
the apostles must, from the nature of the case, have 
consisted chiefly of a narration of the facts recorded in 
our present gospels. It is naturally supposed that 
very soon a certain agreement or uniformity of narra- 
tive would be the result, and that we have a transcript, 
as it were, of this type or form of narrative in the first 


GOSPELS 


93G 


GOSPELS 


three gospels. The verbal coincidences in the gospels 
are found especially in those cases in which it might 
have been expected that the first preachers of the gos- 
pel would be exact, namely, the recital of the words of 
Christ, and quotations from the O. T. This aceount 
of the probable origin of the gospels is not only in ac- 
cordance with the character of the period as an age of 
oral tradition rather than of writing, but is also sub- 
stantially the same as that which Luke gives in the 
preface to his gospel (Luke i, 1-4). While Luke re- 
fers to written accounts of the ministry of Christ in the 
possession of some Christians at that time, he mentions 
that these accounts were founded directly or indirectly 
upon the oral accounts of the apostles ( icadiui ; Trapa^o- 
<r av ijjiiv oi iiiT cip\i]Q avTOTTTCti tcai bmpArcu ytvo- 
}iivoi too Xoyov). The statement of Tapias respect- 
ing the origin of Mark’s Gospel is, that it was derived 
from the preaching of Peter, and we have already 
quoted the important testimony of Jrenaeus to the same 
effect. To prevent misapprehension, however, it ought 
to be observed that our written gospels date from the 
latter half of the first century, and that, “so long as 
the first witnesses survived, so long the tradition was 
confined within the bounds of their testimony; when 
they passed away it was already fixed in writing” 
(Westcott, p. 192). The theory of the oral origin of 
the gospels, while it has much evidence in its favor, 
cannot be accepted as a complete solution of the prob- 
lem. It does not explain the striking instances of 
verbal coincidence in the narrative portions common 
to the three synoptists, or to two of them ; nor the in- 
stances in which either two or all the three evangelists 
agree with each other in their quotations from the 
Sept., and at the same time differ from the Sept, itself 
(Matt, iii, 3 ; Mark i, 3 ; Luke Hi, 4 ; compared with 
Isa. xl, 3, Sept., and Matt, iv, 10; Luke iv, 8, com- 
pared with Deut. vi, 13, Sept.). De Wette would 
combine il the two hypotheses of a common oral source, 
and of the influence through writing of one evangelist 
on another.” 

There is a striking difference between the fourth 
gospel and the synoptic gospels in respect both to con- 
tents and form ; but, with all this difference, there is a 
general and essential agreement. John relates in part 
the same things as the synoptists, and in a similar man- 
ner, but not with the verbal agreement. The follow- 
ing are parallel : The purification of the Temple, ii, 13- 
22 Matt, xxi, 11 sq. ; the feeding of the multitude, 
vi, l-15 = Matt. xiv, 13-21 ; the walking upon the sea, 
vi, lb-21 — Matt, xiv, 22-3G; the anointing, xii, 1- 
8 = Matt, xxvi, (1-13; the entry into Jerusalem, xii, 
9-19 — Matt, xxi, 1-11; the prediction of the denial 
of Peter, xiii, 30-38 = Matt, xxvi, 33-35. In some of 
these instances the expressions are verbally parallel; 
also in the following : xii, 25 = Matt. x, 39 ; xiii, 20 = 
Matt, x, 40 ; xiv, 31 =Matt. xxvi, 40. There is a sim- 
ilarity between iv, 44, and Matt, xiii, 57 ; between xiii, 
10 and Matt, x, 24, and Luke vi, 40 (De Wette, Exeget. 
Jlufidb. zum X . Test.'). On the other hand, however, 
much important matter has been omitted and much 
added by John, while his manner of narration also dif- 
fers from that of the synoptists. In the first three 
gospels, the scene of our Lord’s ministry is chiefly laid 
in Galilee, but in the fourth gospel it is chiefly in Ju- 
diea and Jerusalem. This may partly account for the 
different style of our Lord’s discourses in the synoptic 
gospels, as compared with the Gospel of John (Hug, p. 
433). In the former, Christ often makes use of para- 
bles and proverbial sayings; in the latter, John records 
long and mystical discourses. Yet we find proverbial 
maxims and parables also in John xii, 24-20; xiii, 10, 
20 ; x, 1 sq. ; xv, 1 sq. Many points of difference be- 
tween # the fourth gospel and the others may be satis- 
factorily accounted for from the fragmentary charac- 
ter of the narratives. None of them professes to be a 
complete biograph} r , and, therefore, one may contain 
what others omit. Besides, the fourth gospel was 


composed after the others, and designed to be in some 
respects supplemental. This was the opinion of Euse- 
bius, and of the still more ancient writers whose testi- 
mony he cites, Clement of Alexandria and Origen ; 
and the opinion appears to be well founded. Whether 
John was acquainted with the works of his predeces- 
sors or not is uncertain, but he was no doubt acquaint- 
ed with the evangelical tradition out of which they 
originated. We have, then, in this circumstance, a 
very natural explanation of the omission of many im- 
portant facts, such as the institution of the supper, the 
baptism of Jesus by John, the history of his temptation 
and transfiguration, and the internal conflict at Geth- 
semane. These his narrative assumes as already 
known. In several passages he presupposes in his 
readers an acquaintance with the evangelical tradi- 
tion (i, 32, 45 ; ii, 1 ; iii, 24 ; xi, 2). It is not easy to 
reconcile the apparent discrepancy between John and 
the synoptists with reference to the day on which 
Christ observed the last passover with Ins disciples. 
Lticke decides in favor of John, but thereby admits the 
discrepancy to be real. Again, in the synoptic gos- 
pels, the duration of onr Lord’s ministry appears to be 
only one year, whereas John mentions three passovers 
which our Saviour attended ; but neither the synoptists 
nor John determine the duration of the Saviour’s min- 
istry, and, therefore, there is no contradiction between 
them on this point. It has been alleged that there is 
an irreconcilable difference between the synoptic and 
the Johannean representation of Christ, so that, assum- 
ing the historical reality of the former, the latter must 
be regarded as ideal and subjective ; particularly, that 
the long discourses attributed to Christ in the fourth 
gospel could hardly have been retained in John’s re- 
membrance, and that they are so unlike the sayings 
of Christ in the other gospels, and so like John’s own 
style in his epistles, that they appear to have been 
composed by John himself. If the allegation could be 
made good that the Christ of John is essentially differ- 
ent from the Christ of the synoptists, the objection 
would be fatal. On the contrary, however, we are 
persuaded that, on this all-important point, there is an 
essential agreement among all the evangelists. We 
must remember that the full and many-sided character 
of Christ himself might be represented under aspects 
which, although different, were not inconsistent with 
each other. It is by no means correct to say that the 
fourth gospel represents Christ as God, while the oth- 
ers describe him as a mere man. Yet we may find in 
the fact of his wondrous person as the God-man an 
explanation of the apparent difference in their respect- 
ive representations. That the synoptists do not differ 
essentially from John in their view of Christ is shown 
by Dorner in an admirable comparison (Dorner, Ent- 
wiekdungsgeschiehte , i, 81 sq. ; E. tr. i, 50 sq.). Liicke 
and Frommann, as well as I)e Wette, greatly incline to 
the view that John has mingled his own subjectivity 
with the discourses of Christ, which he professes to re- 
late. That the evangelist does not transfer his own 
subjective views to Christ appears from the fact that 
while he speaks of Christ as the Logos, he never rep- 
resents Christ as applying this term to himself. We 
may also refer to those passages in which, after quot- 
ing obscure sayings of the Redeemer or remarkable oc- 
currences, he either adds an explanation or openly con- 
fesses his ignorance of their meaning at the time (ii, 
19-22 ; vi, 70 ; vii, 37-39 ; xi, 11 ; xii, 10, 32 ; xiii, 27 ; 
xx, 9). 

The susceptible disposition of John himself, and the 
intimate relation in w hich he stood to Christ, make the 
supposition reasonable that he drank so deeply into 
the spirit of his master, and retained so vivid a recol- 
lection of his very words, as to reproduce them w r ith 
accuracy. Instead of transferring his own thoughts 
and expressions to Christ, John received and repro- 
duced those of Christ himself. In this way the simi- 
larity between John’s language and that of Christ is 


GOSPELS 


037 


GOSPELS 


accounted for. It is acknowledged, even by Strauss j 
and De Wette, that the most characteristic expressions 
in John were really used by Christ himself. When 
it is objected that John could not retain in remem- 
brance, or hand down with accuracy, such long dis- 
courses of Christ as he records in his gospel, far too lit- 
tle regard is paid to the assistance of the Holy Spirit, 
to be expected especially in such a case as this, accord- 
ing to the Saviour’s promise, “He shall teach you all 
things, and bring all things to your remembrance, 
whatsoever I have said unto you” (John xiv, 26). — 
Kitto, s. v. 

See Bp. Marsh’s Translation of Michaelis's Introd. to 
N . T. iii, 2 (1803) for an account of Eichhorn’ s ear- 
lier theory and of his own. Veysie’s Examination of 
Mr. Marsh's Hypothesis (1808) has suggested many of 
the objections. In Bp. ThirlwaU’s Translation of 
Schleiermacher on St. Luke (1825, Introduction) is an 
account of the whole question. Other principal works ! 
are, an essay of Eichhorn, in the 5th vol .Allyemeine , 
Bibliothek der Biblischen Literatur (1794) ; the Essay 
of Bp. Marsh, just quoted ; Eichhorn, Einleitung in das 
N. T. (1804); Gratz, Neuer Yersuch die Enstehung der 
drei ersten Evany, zu erkldren^ 1812); Bertholdt,//«sfo?\- 
kritische Einleitung in summtliche kanon. und apok. 
Schrifttn des A . und N. T. (1812-1819) ; and the work 
of Gieseler quoted above. See also De Wette, Lehrbuch , 
and Westcott, Introd., already quoted; also Weisse, 
Evangelien/ rage (Lpz. 185G); Schlichthorst, Verhdltn. 
d. synopt. Evany, zu einander (Getting. 1835); Wilke, 
Der Urevangelist (Dresden and Leipz. 1838) ; Liicke, 
Kommentar iib. d. Ev.Joh. ; Frommann, Der Johannische 
Lehrbegrijf; Schwarz, Untersuchmigen vber d. synopt. 
Evangelien (Tub. 1844) ; Anon. Die Evanyelien, ihr 
Geist , Verfasser und Yerhdltniss zu einander (Leipz. 
1845); Kitsch, in the Theol. Jahrb. 1851; Kostlin, 
Ur sprung und Kompos. d. synopt. Evangelien (Stuttg. 
1853) ; Smith (of Jordanhill), Origin and Connection of 
the Gospels (Edinb. 1853). For the mythical theory of 
the origin of the gospels, as developed by Strauss and 
others, see Rationalism, and the art. Jesus. For di- 
atessara on the Gospels, sec Harmonies of the Gos- 
pels. 

IV. Commentaries , expressly on the whole of the 
four gospels alone, have been numerous ; the most im- 
portant are here designated by an asterisk (*) prefixed : 
Theophilus, Comment ariornm fragmenta (in Grabe, Spi- 
cilegium, ii, 223 sq.); Athanasius, Qucestiones (in Opp. 
[»8p«r.], ii, 253 sq.) ; Jerome, Expositio (in Opp . [Nwp- 
pos.~\ xi, 733 sq.) ; Augustine, Querstionum lib. ii (in 
Opp. iv, 311 sq.) ; Juvencus, Carmina (in Bibl. Patr. 
Gallandii iv); Sedulius, Expositiones [on Matt., Mark, 
and Luke] (in Maii Script. J at. ix, 159 sq.) ; Arnobi- 
us, Annotat'nmcula (in Bibl. Max. Patr. viii); Theo- 
phylact, Commentarius (in Opp. i); Anselm, Explana- 
tions (in Opp. ed. Picard); Rupert, In Evany, lib. i (in 
Opp. i, 534 sq.); Euthymius, Commentarius (Gr. and 
Lat., Lips. 1792, 3 vols. in 4, 8vo) ; Aquinas, in Aurea 
Catena (Paris, 1G37, fol. ; also in Opp. iv, 5; in Bibl. 
Patr. Gall, xiv, 297, et al. ; Catena from the Fathers , 
by Pusey, etc., Oxf. 1841-5, 4 vols. in 8, 8vo) ; Gorra- 
nus, Commentana (Colon. 1472, 1537, Hag. 1502, Antw. 
1G17, Lugd. 1G93, fol.) ; Zuingle, Adnotatiohes [ed. Leo 
Juda] (in Opp. iv); Faber, Commentarii (Meld. 1522, 
Basil. 1523, Col. 1541, fol.); Bucer, Enarrationes (Ar- 
gent. 1527, 1528, 2 vols. 8vo ; Basil. 1537, Geneva. 
1553, fol.) ; Arboreus, Commentarius (Paris, 1529, 1551, 
fob); Cajetan, Commentarii (Venice, 1530, Paris, 1532, 
153G, 1540, 1543, fol. ; ib. 1542, Lugd. 1558, 1574, 8vo) ; 
Sarcer, Scholia (on the gospels successively, Frcft. and 
Basel, 1538-50, 4 vols. 8vo) ; Broeckweg, Enarrationes 
(Par. 1543, Svo ; Ven. 1G48, 4to) ; Herborn, Enarratio- 
nes (Colon. 154G, 4to); Brunsfeld, Adnotationes [in- 
cluding Acts] (Argent. 1553, fob); Delreio, Commtn- 
tarii (Hispal. 1554, fol.) ; Lossii Adnotatio?ies (Francft. 
1559, 2 vols. fol.); Bullinger, Commentarius (on sue-, 
cessive gospels; together, Tigurini, 1561, fol.); Arctius. | 


Commentarii (Lausanne, 1578, 2 vols. Svo; also in his 
Comment, on the N. T.) ; Rande, Erkldrnng (Francfort, 
1597, fol.) ; Binict, Commcnturia (Paris, 1581) ; Sa, 
Scholia [compiled] (Antwerp, 1591, Lugd. 1G02, Colon. 
1G12, 4to) ; Bulliond, extracts of old and new com- 
ments (in French, Lyons, 159G, 1G28, 4to); *Maldona- 
tus [Rom. Catholic], Commentarius (Mussipont. 159G, 2 
vols. fol. ; and often later in various forms; his own 
last. ed. Lugd. 1615, fol.; lately, Mogunt. 1841-55, 5 
vols. fol.) ; Gualtha, Homilice [including Acts] (Tigur. 

1 001, fol.); Lucas, Commentarius (Antw. 1G0G, 2 voK 
fol., with a supplement in two vols. fol. on ib., 1 61 2-16 ; 
complete, ib. 1712, 5 vols. in 2, fol.) ; Scultetus, Exer- 
citationes (Amst. 1624, 4to ; also in the Critici Sacri, vi) ; 
Ileraiis, Scholia [founded on Aquinas] (Antw. 1625, 
12mo) ; Coutzen, Commcnturia (Colon, ct Mog. 1G2G, 2 
vols. fol.); Munster and others, Annotationes (in the 
Critici Sacri , vi) ; Masius, Notre ( ib . vi) ; Jansen, Com- 
mentarius (1631) ; Crell, Explicatio (in Opp. iii, 1 sq.) ; 
Ebert, Tetrasticha Ilebrcea (in Ugolini, xxxi, 117 sq.) ; 
De Ranee, Reflexions (Paris, 1699, 4 vols. 12mo); De 
Dieu, Auimadversiones (L. B. 1633, 4to); 8 pan he im, 
Dubia Evangelica [polemical] (Geneva, 1634-9, and 
later, 3 vols. 4to) ; Bounet’s Commentaiy (in French, 
Par. 1634, 4 to) ; Panonus, Commentaiius (Naples, 1636, 
fol.) ; De Sylveria, Commentarii (in 6 successive vols., 
some of them often, chiefly at Lyons, 1642-75) ; Trapp, 

, Continental y [including Acts] (London, 1647, 4to : 1748, 
j 1868, Svo) ; Wnlams, Commentarius [from Beza and oth- 
J ers] (L. B. 1653, 4to) ; Boys, Collatio [chiefly in favor of 
the Vulgate] (Loud. 1655, 8vo); Ferrerus, Commenta- 
rius (Lugd. 1661, fol.); Wolzogen, Commentarius (in 
Opp. [Amst. 1668, fol.] p. 1-1038); Sandys, Interpre - 
tationes (Amst. 1669, 8vo); Lightfoot, Ilorcc Ilebraicce 
[valuable for Talmudical comparisons] (ed. Carpzov, 
Lips. 1675, 4to) ; Keuchen, Adnotata [including Acts] 
(Amst. 1689, and later, 4to) ; *Alex. Natalis [Roman 
I Cath.] Expositio [chiefly extracted] (Paris, 1703, fol.); 
*Dorsche, Commentarius (llamb. 1706, 4to); Ulric, Bi- 
belubung [completed by Wirz] (Tigur. 1713-39, 4 vols. 
Svo); S. Clarke, Paraphrase (first in parts, Lond. 1721- 
2, and later, 2 vols. Svo ; also in Ilor&s, iii ; trails!. in 
Germ, by Wilmsen, Berl. 1763, 3 vols. 4 to); Hagiophi- 
lus, Observationes [incomplete] (Gardeleg. 1741, 4to) ; 
Iloeclier, Analecta (ed. Wolfii, Altenb. 1766, 4to) ; Ly- 
i nar, Erldar. (Hall. 1775, 8vo); Bp. Pearce, Commenta- 
ry [including Acts] (London, 1777, 2 vols. 4 to) ; Thale- 
mann, Versio [including Acts] (Berlin, 1781, Svo); Bp. 
Mann, Notes [including Acts] (2d ed. London, 1783, 
12mo) ; Campbell, Notes (Aberdeen, 1789, 2 vols. Svo ; 
3d ed. ib. 1814, 4 vols. Svo ; Andover, 1837, 2 vols. Svo); 
j Qucsncl, Comment (Bath, 1790, 2 vols. 8vo; London, 
1830, 3 vols. 12mo) ; Bossuet, Reflexions (in (Evvrcs, 
xiv, 117 sq.); Erskine, Songs (in llorfo, x, 627 sq.); 
Schulz, Anmerk. (Halle, 1794, 4 to) ; Elslev, Annotations 
I [including Acts] (Lond. 1799, 1821, 1827, 3 vols. ; 1841, 

, 2 vols. ; 1844, 1 vol. Svo) ; Brameld, Notes (Lond. 1803, 
8vo); *Kuin6l, Commentarius [including Acts] (Lips. 
1807-12, and since, 4 vols. 8vo ; London, 1835, 3 vols. 
Svo); Jones, Illustrations (Lond. 1808, Svo) ; Stabback, 
Annotations [including Acts] (Falmouth, 1809, 2 vols. 
8vo) ; St. Gilly, Observations (Lond. 1818, Svo) ; Iviste- 
macher, Erkldrung (Munst. 1818-20, 4 vols. Svo) ; Mul- 
ler, Ansichten (Gotha. 1819, Svo); *Fritzsehe, Commni- 
tarii [Matt., Mark, and Lnke] (Lips. 1825-30, 2 vols. 
Svo); Sumner, Exposition (Lond. 1832, Svo); Barnes, 
Notes (New York, 1832, 1847, 2 vols. Svo) ; * Watson, 
Exposition [Matthew and Mark] (London, 1833, Svo ; 
New York, 1841) ; Page, jVo/rs (London, 1834, 12mo) ; 
Glockler, Erkldrung [Matt., Mark, and Luke] (Frank- 
fort, 1834, Svo); Slade, Remarks (Lond. 1835, 12mo); 
Lingard, Notes (London, 1836, 8vo); Adam, Exposi- 
tion (ed. Wes toby, London, 1837, 2 vols. 8vo)^ Rip- 
ley, Notes (Boston, 1837-8, 2 vols. Svo); Rule, Notes 
(Gibraltar, 1841, 4to) ; Longking, Notes (N. Y. 1841-4, 
4 vols. 16mo); Kenney, Commentary [including epis- 
tles] (Lond. 1842, 2 vols. 12mo); Paulus, Excg. llandbk. 


GOSPELS 


938 


GOSPELS 


[first 3 gospels] (Ilcidelh. 1842, 3 vols. 8vo) ; Baum- 
garten-Crusius, Commentar [Matt., Mark, aiul Luke] 
(Leipzig, 1844, 2 vols. Svo) ; Livermore, Commentary 
(Lend. 1844, 8vo; Boston, 1850, 12mo); Paige, Notes 
(Boston, 1844-5, 2 vols. 12mo); Mackenzie, Comment- 
ary [including Acts] (London, 1847, 8vo) ; 5!c Ewald, 
Erkliirung (first 3 gospels, Gottingen, 1850, 3 vols. 
8vo ; John, ib. 18G1-2, 2 vols. Svo); Brown, Discourses 
of Christ (Edinburgh, 1850, 3 vols. Svo; Xew York, 
18G4, 2 vols. Svo) ; also Commentary (ib. 1854-5, 4 vols. 
in 7, Svo); Girdlestone, Lectures (new ed. Loud. 1853, 
4 vols. Svo); *Sticr, Reden Jesu [on Christ’s words 
r.nlv] (Barmen, 1853-5, 7 vols. Svo ; tr. Edinb. 1855 sq., 
8 vols. Svo; N. Y. 1SG4-8, 2 vols. in 3, 8vo) ; Stebbing, 

1 I tips (Loiul. 1855, 8vo) ; *Xorton, Notes (Boston, 1855, 

2 vols. Svo); Lyttlcton, Notes [including Acts] (Lornl. 
185G, Svo); Kyle, Expos . Thoughts (London and X. Y. 
185G-GG, G vols. Svo) ; Hall, Notes (X. Y. 1857, 2 vols. 
12mo) ; Owen, Notes (X. York, 1857-GO, 3 vols. 12mo) ; 
AYhedon, Commentary (X. Y. 18G0-G, vols. i, ii, 12mo) ; 
*Bleek, ErkUirnng [first 3 gosp.] (Lpz. 18G1-2, 2 vols. 
Svo); Jacobus, Notes (X. York, 1848-5G; Edinb. 18G3, 

3 vols. Svo) ; Burger, Erkliirung [Matthew, Mark, and 
Luke] (Xordlingen, 18G5, Svo) ; Burgon, Commentary 
(new ed. London, 18G5, 5 vols. 12mo); Bisping, Exeg. 
llandb. (Munster, 18G5, Svo); Warren, Notes (Boston, 
18G7, vol. i, 12mo). See New Testament. 

GOSPELS, SPURIOUS (Pseudepigraphal). 
The canon of the Xew Testament, as we have already 
seen, having been finally 7 ' settled before the close of 
the 4tli century, the rejected writings which bore the 
names of the apostles and evangelists soon sank into 
oblivion, and few, if any, have descended to our times 
in their original shape. From the decree of Gelasius 
and a few other sources we have the names and a few' 
detached notices of a good many of these productions. 

I. Of those still extant the following claim special no- 
tice : 

1. The History of Joseph the Carpenter, 
w'hicli has been preserved in the East in an Arabic 
translation, was llrst made known in Europe in the 
commencement of the lGth century by Isidore de Iso- 
lanis in his Summa de donis Sti. Josephi. He observes 
that the “Catholics of the East” commemorate St. 
Joseph on the 19th of March, and read the legend of 
the saint, omitting certain parts which are not ap- 
proved in the Roman Church. This work was first 
published by Wallin, at Leipsic, in 1722, from an Ara- 
bic MS. of the 13th century, in the Biblioth'eque du 1 ?oi, 
accompanied with a Latin translation. It was divided 
by Wallin into chapters and verses. It is also found 
in Coptic, Sahidic, and Memphic. It is highly es- 
teemed by the Copts. The former part, to chap, ix, 
appears to have been derived from an ancient Gospel 
of the Infancy. The Latin w r as republished by Fabri- 
cius. 

The Gospel of the Infancy was first published 
by Henry Sike, at Utreebt, in 1G97, from an Arabic 
MS. Sike’s Latin version was republished by Fabri- 
ci us, who divided it into chapters. The Arabic was 
divided into corresponding chapters by Thilo in 1832. 

There are several MSS. of this gospel extant, the 
oldest of which known is that in the Medicean Libra- 
ry, written in 1299. The narratives which it contains 
were current in the 2d century, and the account con- 
tained in this gospel respecting Christ’s learning the 
alphabet is mentioned by Irenseus (Adv. Ihrres. i, 20) 
as a fabrication of the Marcosians. The Gospel of the 
Infancy is found in the catalogue of Gelasius, and it is 
especially remarkable from the fact that it was most 
probably this gospel which was known to Mohammed, 
who seems to have been unacquainted w'ith any of the 
canonical Scriptures, and who has inserted some of its 
narrations in the Koran. The Sepher Toldoih.Jesu , a 
well-known publication of the Jews, contains similar 
fables w’ith those in this gospel (WagensciTs Sota). 
This gospel was received as genuine by many of the 


| Eastern Christians, especially the Xestofians and Mo- 
nophysites. It was found to have been universally 
read by the Syrians of St. Thomas, in Travancore, 
and w r as condemned by the Synod of Diamper, in 1599, 
by archbishop Menezes, who describes it as “the book 
called the Gospel of the Infancy , already condemned by 
the ancients for its many blasphemous heresies and 
fabulous histories.” Wherever the name Jesus occurs 
in this gospel he is universally entitled el-Rab, while 
Christ is called el-Sheik. This w'as a distinction in- 
troduced by the Xestorians. The blessed Virgin is 
also entitled the Lady Mary. The Persians and Copts 
also received this gospel (De la Brosse’s Lexic . Pet's. 
s. v. Tinctoria Ars). The original language was prob- 
ably Syriac. It is sometimes called the Gospel of 
Peter, or of Thomas. 

2. The Gospel of Thomas tiie Israelite (Gr.), 
a work whicli has flowed from the same source w ith 
the former, was first published by Cotelerius (Notes on 
the Constitutions of the Apostles, 1. vi, c. xvii, tom. i, p. 
348), from an imperfect MS. of the 1 5th century. It 
was republished and divided into chapters by Fabri- 
cius. The most perfect edition was that of Mingarelli, 
in the Nuora Raccolta d'Opusculi scientifice ejilosofee 
(Venet. 17G4), from a Bologna MS. of the 15th century. 
Mingarelli (who believed it to have been a forgery of 
the Manicliees) accompanied liis text with a Latin 
translation. Thilo has given a complete edition from 
a collation of Mingarelli’s work with two MSS. pre- 
served at Bonn and Dresden. This gospel relates the 
fable of Christ’s learning the Greek alphabet, in which 
it agrees with the account in Irenaeus. In other Gos- 
pels of the Infancy (as in that published by Sike) he 
is represented as learning the Hebrew letters. It has 
been questioned whether this is the same work which 
is called the Gospel of Thomas, by Origen, Ambrose, 
Bede, and others. This gospel probably had its origin 
among the Gnostics, and found its way from them, 
through the Manicliees, into the Church ; but, having 
been more generally received among the heretics, it 
was seldom copied by the monks, which accounts for 
the paucity of MSS. Xicephorus says that the Gospel 
of Thomas contained 1300 gti\oi. This pseudepi- 
graplial work is probably the foundation of all the his- 
tories of Christ’s infancy, but it is supposed to have 
been recast and interpolated. 

3. The Protevang elion of James lias descended 
to us in the original Greek, and was first published by 
Bibliander at Basel in 1552, in a Latin version by Wil- 

; Ham Postell, who asserted that it was publicly read in 
the Greek churches, and maintained that it was a gen- 
uine work of the apostle James, and intended to be 
placed at the head of St. Mark’s Gospel. These com- 
mendations provoked the wrath of the learned Ilenrv 
Stephens, who insinuated that it was fabricated by Pos- 
tell himself, whom he calls “a detestable monster” 
(Introduction an Traite de la Confer mite des Marti lies 
Anciennes arec les Modernes , 15GG). It was reprinted 
in the Orthodoxographa of J. llerold (Basel, 1555), and 
again in the Orthodoxographa , vol. i (15G9), of Jacob 
Gr}mnens, who entertained a very favorable opinion of 
it. Subsequent discoveries have proved that, not- 
withstanding the absurdity of Postell’s high preten- 
| sions in favor of the authenticity of this gospel, Ste- 
phens's accusations against him were all ill founded. 
There had, even at the time when Stephens wrote, been 
■ already a Greek translation published by Xeander, of 
which Stephens was not aware : it appeared among the 
Apocrypha annexed by Oporin to his edition of Lu- 
ther’s Catechism (Basel, 15G4). It was republished 
by Fabricius (who divided it into chapters), and sub- 
sequently by Birch, Thilo, and Tiscliendorf. Thilo 
collated for his edition six Paris MSS., the oldest of 
which is of the 10th century. From the circumstance 
of these MSS. containing a Greek calendar or martyr- 
ology, and from other internal evidences, there seems 
little doubt that this gospel was formerly read in the 


GOSPELS 


939 


GOSPELS 


Greek Church (Montfaucon, Paleeogr. Grccc. p. 304). 
There are also extant versions of the Gospel of the In- 
fancy in the Arabic and other languages of the East- 
ern churches, among which they appear to have pos- 
sessed a high degree of authority. 

Although this work is styled by Postell the Prote- 
vangelium , there is no MS. authority for tiiis title, nor 
for the fact of its being ascribed to James the apostle. 
It only appears that the author’s name is James. The 
narrations of this gospel were known to Tertullian 
(Adeevs. Gnost. c. viii), Origen (Com. in Matt. p. 223), 
Gregory Nyssen (Or at. in diem Nat. Christ. : Opp. iii, j 
34G), Epiphanius (fleer. 79, § 5), the author of the 1m- 
perfect Work on Matt., Chrysostom (Opp.v i, 24), and 
many others among the ancients. (See Suckow, Be i 
arg. et bid. Prvtev. Jacobi , Bresl. 1830.) 

4. The Gospel of tiie Nativity of Mary (Lat- 
in). Although the Latins never evinced the same 
degree of credulity which was shown bv the Greeks 1 
and Orientals in regard to these fabulous productions, 
and although they were generally rejected by the fa- i 
thers, they were again revived about the 6th century. , 
Notwithstanding their contemptuous rejection by Au- 
gustine and Jerome, and their condemnation by popes 
Innocent and Gelasius, they still found readers in 
abundance. Gelasius expressly condemns the book 
concerning the Nativity of St. Marg and the Midwife. | 

The Gospel of the Nativity of Mary, which most ! 
probably, in its present form, dates its origin from the 
6th century, has even been recommended by the pre- 
tended authority of St. Jerome. There is a letter ex- 
tant, said to be -written by the bishops Chromatins and 
Heliodorus to Jerome, requesting him to translate out 
of Hebrew into Latin the history of the Birth of Mary, 
and of the Birth and Infancy of Christ , in order to op- 
pose the fabulous and heretical accounts of the same 
contained in the apocryphal books. To this Jerome 
accedes, observing, at the same time, that the real au- 
thor of the book was not, as the)' supposed, the evan- 
gelist Matthew, but Seleucus the Manichee. Jerome 
observes that there is some truth in the accounts, of 
which he furnishes a translation from the original lie- ' 
brew. These pretended letters of Jerome are now uni- | 
versally acknowledged to be fabrications ; but the 1 
apocryphal gospel itself, which is the same in sub- 
stance with the Protevangclion of James , is still extant 
in Jerome’s pretended Latin version. This gospel 
was republished by Mr. Jones from Jerome’s works. 
It is from these Gospels of the Infancy that we have 
learned the names of the parents of the blessed Vir- 
gin, Joachim (although Bede reads Eli) and Anna. 
The narratives contained in these gospels were incor- 
porated in the Golden Legend , a work of the 13th cen- 
tury, which was translated into all the languages of 
Europe, and frequently printed. There are extant 
some metrical accounts of the same in German, which 
were popular in the era of romance. These legends i 
were, however, severely censured by some eminent 
divines of the Latin Church, of whom it will be suffi- 
cient to name Alcuin, in his Homilies, in the 9th, and 
Fulbert and Petrus Damian us (bishop of Ostia) in the 
11 th century. “ Some,” says the latter, u boast of be- 
ing wiser than they should be when, with superfluous 
curiosity, they inquire into the names of the parents 
of the blessed Virgin, for the evangelist would surely 
not have failed to have named them if it were profita- 
ble to mankind’’ (Sermon on the Nativity'). Eadmer, 
the monk, in his book on the Excellence of the Virgin, 
writes in a similar strain (cap. ii, Anselm. Opp. p. 435, 
Paris, 1721). Luther also inveighs against the read- 
ers of these books (ffomil. ed. Walch. tom. xi; and Ta- 
ble-Talk, ch. vii, torn, xxii, p. 396). 

There were several editions of Jerome’s pretended 
translation published in the fifteenth century, one of 
them by Caxton. It is printed by Thilo from a Paris 
MS. of the 14th century, and divided by him into 
twenty-four chapters, after a MS. of the 15th century 


in the same library. One of the chief objects of the 
writer of these gospels seems to be to assert the Davidi- 
cal origin of the Virgin, in opposition to the Manichees. 

Mr. Jones conceives that the first author of these an- 
cient legends was a Hellenistic Jew, who lived in the 
second century, but that they we re added to and inter- 
polated by Seleucus at the end of the third, who be- 
came their reputed author ; and that still further ad- 
ditions were made by the Nestorians, or some late 
Christians in India. Lardner ( Credibility , vol. viii) so 
far differs from Mr. Jones as to believe the author not 
to have been a Jew. That these legendary accounts 
have not altogether lost their authority appears from 
the Life of St. Joseph , in the Catholic Magazine for De- 
cember, 1843). 

The Gospel of the Nativity of Mary was received 
by many of the ancient heretics, and is mentioned by 
Epiphanius, St. Augustine, and Gelasius. The Gnos- 
tics and Manichees endeavored to found on its authori- 
ty some of their peculiar opinions (such as that Christ 
was not the Son of God before his baptism, and that he 
was not of the tribe of Judah, but of that of Levi) ; as 
did also the Collyridians, who maintained that too much 
honor could not be paid to the blessed Virgin, and that 
she was herself born of a virgin, and ought to be wor- 
shipped with sacrifices. 

5. Although the Gospel of Marcion, or rather 
that of Luke, as corrupted by that heretic in the second 
century, is no longer extant, professor 11 aim has en- 
deavored to restore it from the extracts found in an- 
cient writers, especially Tertullian and Epiphanius. 
See Marcion. This work has been published by 
Thilo. 

6. Thilo has also published a collation of a corrupted 
Greek Gospel of St. John, found in the archives of 
the Knights Templars in Paris. This work was first 
noticed (in 1828) by the Danish bishop M neuter, as 
well as by abbe Gregoire, ex-bishop of Blois. It is a 
vellum manuscript in large 4to, said by persons skilled 
in palaeography to have been executed in the 13th or 
14th century, and to have been copied from a Mount 
Athos MS. of the 12th. The writing is in gold letters. 
It is divided into nineteen sections, which are called 
gospels , and is on this account supposed to have been 
designed for liturgical use. These sections, correspond- 
ing in most instances with our chapters (of which, how- 
ever, the twentieth and twenty-first are omitted), are 
subdivided into verses, the same as those now in use, 
and said to have been first invented by Ifobert Ste- 
phens. See Verses. The omissions and interpola- 
tions (which latter are in barbarous Greek) represent 
the heresies and mysteries of the Knights Templars. 
Notwithstanding all this, Thilo considers it to be mod- 
ern, and fabricated since the commencement of the 
18th century. 

7. One of the most curious of the apocryphal gospels 
j is the Gospel of Nicodemus, or Acts of Pilate. 

It is a kind of theological romance, partly founded oil 
the canonical gospels. The first part, to the end of 
ch. xv, is little more than a paraphrastic account of the 
trial and death of Christ, embellished with fabulous 
additions. From that to the end (ch. xxviii) is a de- 
tailed account of Christ’s descent into hell to liberate 
the spirits in prison, the history of which is said to 
have been obtained from Lenthius and Charinus, sons 
of Simeon, who were two of those “ saints who slept,” 
hut were raised from the dead, and came into the holy 
city after the resurrection. This part of the history is 
so far valuable, that it throws some light upon the an- 
cient ideas current among Christians on this subject. 
It is therefore considered by Birch (Auctarhim, Proleg. 
p. vi) to be as valuable in this respect as the writings 
of the fathers. 

The subscription to this book states that it was fonnd 
by the emperor Theodosius among the public records 
in Jerusalem, in the hall of Pontius Pilate (A.D. 380). 
We read in ch. xxvii that Pilate himself wrote all the 


GOSPELS 


940 


GOSPELS 


transactions from the relation of Nicoilemus, who had 
taken them down in Hebrew; and we are informed by 
Epiplumius that the Quartodecimans appealed to the 
Acts of Pilate in favor of their opinions as to the proper 
time of keeping Easter. It was written in these Acts 
that our Saviour suffered on the eighth Kal. of April, 
a circumstance which is stated in the subscription to 
the present Acts, It is uncertain, however, when this 
work w'as first called by the name of Nieodemus. 

The two ancient apologists, Justin Martyr andTer- 
tullian, both appeal in confirmation of our Saviour’s 
miracles and crucifixion to the Acts of Pilate (Justin 
Martyr, Apol. p. 7G, 84; Tertullian, Apol. c. ‘21, or Eng- 
lish transl. by Chevallier, 1833). From this circum- 
stance it has generally been held that such documents 
must have existed, although this fact lias been called 
in question by Tanaquil Faber and Le Clerc (Jones, On 
the Canon , vol. ii, p. 282, pt. iii, ch. 29). These appeals, 
however, in all probability first furnished the idea of 
the present pious fraud. Mr. Jones supposes that this 
may have been done in order to silence those pagans 
who denied the existence of such Acts. The citations 
of those fathers are all found in the present work. (See 
Henke, Ve Pout'd Pilaii actis in causa J. C. ad Tiber . 
missis , 1784.) 

We have already seen that a book entitled the Acts 
of Pilate existed among the Quartodecimans, a sect 
which originated at the close of the third century. We 
are informed by Eusebius that the heathens forged cer- 
tain Acts of Pilate, full of all sorts of blasphemy against 
Christ, which they procured (A.D. 80S) to be dispersed 
through the empire; and that it was enjoined on school- 
masters to put them into the hands of children, who 
were to learn them by heart instead of their lessons. 
But the character of the Gospel of Nieodemus, which 
contains no blasphemy of the kind, forbids us to iden- 
tify it with those Acts. This gospel probably had its 
origin in a later age. From the circumstance of its 
containing the names of Lentbius and Charinus, Mr. 
Jones conceives it to have been the work of the celebra- 
ted fabricator of gospels, Lucius Charinus, who flourish- 
ed in the beginning of the 4th century. It is certainly 
not later than the 5th or 6th. “ During the persecu- 
tion under Maximin,” says Gieseler ( Eccles . 1 list. vol. 
i, § 24, note), “the heathens first brought forward cer- 
tain calumnious Acts of Pilate (Euseb. ix, 5), to which 
the Christians opposed others (Epiphan. liter. 79, § 1), 
which w'ere afterwards in various ways amended. One 
of these improved versions was afterwards called the 
Gospel of Nieodemus.” See Acts of Pilate. 

Beausobre suspected that the latter part of the book 
(the descent into hell) w r as taken from the Gospel of 
Peter , a w r ork of Lucius Charinus now lost. Thilo 
(Codex Apocrypltus) thinks that it is the work of a Jew'- 
ish Christian, but it is uncertain whether it was origi- 
nally written in Hebrew’, Greek, or Latin. The only 
Greek writer who cites it is the author of the Synaxa- 
rion , and the first of the Latins who uses it is the cele- 
brated Gregory of Tours (/list. Franc, i, 20, 23). 

The Gospel of Nieodemus (in Latin) w r as one of the 
earliest books printed, and there are subsequent edi- 
tions in 1490, 1516, 1522, and 1538, and in 1569 in the 
Ortliodoxograph a of Grymeus, It was afterwards pub- 
lished by Fabricius (Cod. Apoc.), who divided it into 
chapters. Fabricius gives us no information respect- 
ing the age or character of his MS., which is extreme- 
ly defective and inaccurate. Mr. Jones republished 
this, with an English version. 

The Greek Gospel of Nieodemus was first published 
from an incorrect Paris MS. by Bireh (Auciarium), and 
subsequently from a collation of several valuable man- 
uscripts, the most ancient of which are of the 13th cen- 
tury, by Thilo, with the Latin text of the very ancient 
MS. at Einsiedel, described by Gerbert in his -Iter Ale- 
mamiicnm. It has been sligvn by Smidt (Bill. fur 
Critik und Exegpse) that the present MS^. exhibit in 
their citations from the canonical books a text of the 


6th century, and consequently that this gospel is 
tremely useful in a critical point of view'. 

The esteem in which this work w'as held in the Mid- 
dle Ages may be seen from the number of early ver- 
sions wdiich W'ere in popular use, of which innumerable 
MSS. have descended to our times. The earliest of 
these is the Anglo-Saxon translation, printed at Ox- 
ford in 1698, from a Cambridge MS. ('1 hwaites’s Hep- 
tuteuchus'). This is a translation from the Latin, as 
none of the Greek MSS. contain Pilate’s letter to Clau- 
dius. There are also MSS. of the same in the Bodleian 
and Canterbury libraries. That in the Bodleian is di- 
vided into thirty -four chapters. There are several 
MSS. of the English version in the Bodleian, one in 
Sion College, and one in English verse in Pepys’s col- 
lection. It w’as also translated by Wickliffe ; and there 
were versions printed in London, in 1507 and 1509, by 
Julian Notary and Wynkyn de Woide, which ran 
through several editions (Panzi’s Annals). The latest 
published before Mr. Jones’s work was by Joseph Wil- 
son in 1767. lie says nothing of the age of his MS., 
but the following specimen from the prologue may not 
prove uninteresting: “ It befel in the 18th year of the 
seigniory of Tiberius Crcsar, emperor of Pome, and in 
the seigniory of Herod, who was king of Galilee, the 
8th kalend of April, whieh is the 25th day of March, 
the fourth year of the son of Vellum, who was coun- 
selor of Pome, and Olympias had been afore two hundred 
years and tuo ; at this time Joseph and Annas were 
lords above all justices of peace, mayors, and Jew’s. 
Nieodemus, who was a worthy prince, did write this 
blessed history in Hebrew', and Theodosius the em- 
peror did translate it out of Hebrew’ into Latin, and 
bishop Turpin did translate it out of Latin into French, 
and hereafter did ensue the blessed history called the 
Gospel of Nieodemus.” The regard, indeed, in which 
this book was held in England w’ill be understood from 
the fact that, in 1524, Erasmus acquaints us that he 
saw T the Gospel of Nieodemus affixed to one of the col- 
umns of the cathedral of Canterbury. 

Translations were also common in French, Italian, 
German, and Swedish. In the French MSS. and edi- 
tions it is united with the old romance of Pcrceforcst , 
King of Great Britain. There was also a Welsh trans- 
lation (Lhuyd’s .4 vchecologia , p. 256), and the work was 
known to the Eastern Christians, and has been even 
supposed to be cited in the Coptic liturgy; hut this 
has been shown by Ludolf to be a mistake, as the les- 
son is from the history of Nieodemus, in John iii (seo 
Brunn, De indol. atate et usu Evang. A 'iced. Berl. 1794 ; 
Tischendorf, Pilati circa Chr.judicio quid hie is ajfera- 
tur ex Actis Pilaii , Lips. 1855). See Nicodemus. 

II. Of the gospels no longer extant, we know' little 
more than that they once existed. We read in Irenams, 
Epiphanius, Origen, Eusebius, and other ecclesiastical 
■writers, of the Gospels of Eve or of Perfection, of Bar- 
nabas (ancient and modern), of Bartholomew', of Basi- 
lides, of Ilesyeliius, of Judas Iscariot, of the Valentini- 
ans, of Apollos, of Cerinthus, of the Twelve Apostles, 
and several others. Some of these were derived from 
the Gnostics and other heretics; others, as the Gospel 
of Matthias, are supposed by Mill, Grabe, and most 
learned men to have been genuine gospels, now lost. 
Those of which we have the fullest details are the fok 
low ing : 

1. The Gospel of the Nazarenes. This is most 
probably the same with that of the Hebrews, whieh 
was used by the Ebionites. It was supposed by St. 
Jerome to have been a genuine Gospel of Matthew', 
who, he says, wrote it in the Hebrew language and 
letters. lie copied it himself from t lie original in the 
library of Ciesarea, translated it into Greek and Latin, 
and has given many extracts from it. Grabe con- 
ceived this gospel to have been composed by Jewish 
converts soon after our Lord’s ascension, before the 
composition of the canonical Gospel of Matthew. Ba- 
I ronius, Grotius, father Simon, and Du Pin look upon 


GOSPELS 


941 


GOTAMA 


it as the Gospel of Matthew — interpolated, however, ! 
L y the Nazarenes. Baronins and Grabe think that it 
was cited by Ignatius, or the author of the epistles as- 
cribed to him. Others look upon it as a translation 
altered from the Greek of Matthew. Mr. Jones thinks 
that this gospel was referred to by Paul in his Epistle 
to the Galatians. It is referred to by Hegesippus 
(Eusebius, Eccles. Hist, iv, 22), Clemens Alexandrinus 
(Strom, ii, p. 280), Origen, Comm, on John; Horn, viii 
in Matthew)) and Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. iii, 25, 27, 39). 
Epiphanius (Herr. § 29, 30) informs us that it was held 
in great repute by the ancient Judaizing Christians, 
and that it began thus: “ It came to pass in the days 
of Herod, king of Judaea, that John came baptizing 
with the baptism of repentance in the river Jordan,” 
etc. It consequently wanted the genealogy and the 
lirst tivo chapters. 

2. The Gospel of the Egyptians is cited by 
Clemens Alexandrinus (Strom, iii, p. 445, 452, 453, 
465), Origen (Horn, in Luc. p. 1), Ambrose, Jerome 
(Pnrf. to his Comm, on Matt.'), and Epiphanius (Herr. 
lxii, § 2). Grabe, Mill, Du Pin, and father Simon, 
who thought highly of this gospel, looked upon it as 
one of the works referred to by Luke in the commence- 
ment of his gospel. Mill ascribes its origin to the 
Essencs, and supposes this and the former gospel to 
have been composed in or a little before A.D. 58. It 
is cited by the Pseudo-Clement (Second Epistle to the 
Corinthians , Chevallier’s translation, 1833), who is gen- 
erally supposed to have written not before the 3d cen- 
tury. — Kitto, s. v. 

III. Literature. — See Car. Clir. Schmidt’s Corpus 
omnium vet. Apocr. extra Bihlia ; Kleuker, I)c Apocr. 
N. Test. (Hamburg, 1798) ; Pi roll’s A uctuarium, fasc. 1 
(Hafn. 1804); Cave, Hist. Lit.; Otidin, Script. Eccl. ; 
Ant. v. Dale, De orig. idolol. p. 253 sq. ; Pritius, In - 
( trod . in N. Test. p. 6, 58; Mosheim, Dissertt. ail Hist. 
Eccl. spect. i, 217 ; Nitzsch, I)e apocr. Ecang. (Viteb. 
1808) ; Tischcndorf, De Eve. apocr. origine et usu (Hag. 
1851); Peuss, Gesch. der II. S. neuen Test. § 258 sq. ; 
Hofmann, Das Leben Jesu nach den Apoeryphen (Lpz. 
1851). A list of most of these apocryphal addenda to 
the N. Test, may be seen in Toland’s Amyntor (1699); 
and a fuller list in Toland’s reply to Dr. IjlackhalTs 
(bishop of Exeter) attack on the Amyntor , found in 
Des Maizeaux’s edition of Toland’s Miscellaneous (post- 
humous) JlWs (London, 1747, 2 vols. Svo), i, 350-403. 
Most of these spurious fragments were collected and 
published by Fabricins in his Codex Apocryphns Xovi 
Testamenti (3 vols. 8vo, llamb. 1719-43). This work, 
with additions by Thilo and others, was republished 
by Dr. Giles (London, 1852). English translations of 
some of these early forgeries will be found in the 
works of Jones, Lardner, Whiston, Cotton, and Lau- 
rence. Hone’s Apocryphal X. T. (London, 1820) con- 
tains a translation of many of them. Other collections 
(in the original languages), more or less complete, 
have been made by Grabe (Spicilcg. Patrum ct Hard. 
snec. i-iii, Oxon. 1698), Schmid (Corpus Apocryph. extra 
Biblia , Had. 1804), and especially Thilo (Cod. Apocr. 
X. Test. coll, et illnstr. Lips. 1832, vol. i). Still later, 
Tischendorf has edited (in some cases for the first time 
published) the following apocryphal gospels (Evangelia 
Apocrypha , Lips. 1843, Svo): “Protevangel of James” 
(Gr.); “Pseudo-Matthew’s Gospel” (Lat.) ; “Gospel 
of the Nativity of Mary” (Lat.); “History of Joseph 
the Carpenter” (Latin, from the Arabic); “Gospel of 
Thomas” (Greek A ) ; “ Gospel of Thomas” (Greek B}; 
“Gospel of Thomas” (Lat.); “Gospel of the Infancy 
of Christ” (Lat. from the Arab.); “Deeds of Pilate” 
(Greek A) ; “ Deeds of Pilate” (Gr. B) ; “ Descent of 
Christ into hell” (Latin A) ; “First Epistle of Pilate” 
(Lat.) ; “ Descent of Christ into hell” (Lat. B) ; “ Sec- 
ond Epistle of Pilate” (Lat.); “Anaphora of Pilate” 
(Gr. A); “Anaphora of Pilate” (Gr. /?); “ Paradosis 
of Pilate” (Gr.); “Death of Pilate” (Lat.); “Narra- 
tive of Joseph of Arimatlnea” (GrA ; “ Defence of the 


Saviour” (Lat.). See also H.Cowper, The Apocryphal 
Gospels , etc., translated, with notes, etc. (London, 1867, 
Svo); A. Hilgenfeld, Xoi\ Testcnn. extra canonem , em- 
bracing the apocryphal gospels, epistles, etc., with 
notes, etc. (Lips. 1866 sq.). See Apocrypha. 

Gosschel. See Goeschel. 

Gossip (from “God" and “sib" a Saxon word 
signifying “kindred”), a name given in England to 
sponsors as bearing a spiritual relationship to the chil- 
dren for whom they stand. — Procter, On Common 
Prayer , p. 361. 

Gossner, Johannes Evangelista, a prominent 
divine of the Evangelical Church of Germany, was 
born in 1773, of Homan Catholic parents, at llausen, 
near Augsburg. He studied at Dillingen under Sailer 
| (q. v.) and Zimmer, entered in 1793 the College of ln- 
i golstadt, and, having been ordained priest, was in 1797 
appointed chaplain. The profoundly evangelical con- 
victions which he had already had for several years 
I were strengthened by personal intercourse and corre- 
I spondence with Martin Boos (q. v.), and they were cer- 
I tainlv not weakened by persecutions from ultramon- 
tane zealots. In 1804 he was appointed parish priest 
at Dirlewang, which position he resigned in 1811 in 
order to accept a small benefice at Munich, which al- 
lowed him greater liberty in his evangelistic and lit- 
erary labors. Having been deposed in 1817 on ac- 
count of his evangelical views, he was in 1819 appoint- 
ed professor at the gymnasium of Dusseldorf. From 
1820 to 1824 he was pastor of a German congregation 
in St. Petersburg ; in 1826 he openly joined the Evan- 
gelical Church ; in 1827 he became pastor of the Beth- 
lehem church at Berlin. He died March 20, 1858. He 
wrote a great deal to the last. At seventy he learned 
English, and translated some of Kyle’s tracts when lie 
was upwards of eighty. His writings, numbering (ex- 
clusive of many posthumous works) forty-six, occupy 
the presses of a separate book and tract society. They 
enjoy unusual popularity, some having run through an- 
nual or semi-annual editions for many years. Among 
the best known of his works are the Schatzkdstlein 
(1824) and Goldkorner (1859). Up to the spring of 1858 
he corrected proofs and continued his correspondence. 
The summer previous he was still able to train his 
vines. He established a missionary society, which 
during his lifetime sent out more than 140 missiona- 
ries. His life was, like the life of Abraham, one of 
wonderful faith. From humble little Hausen and the 
unnoticed struggles of a country priest, he rose to be 
the Father Gossner of a reverent, religious Germany. 
The story of his life is well told in a little volume pub- 
lished by the Carters, of New York. — Betlnnann-Holl- 
weg, J. Gossner (Berlin, 1858); see also Prochnow, 
Gossner , Biographic arts Tagebmjarn u. Brief en (Berl. 
1863-4, 2 vols.); Herzog, Ileal-Encyklopddie , xix, 572. 
(A.J.S.) 

Gotama, a Hindoo philosopher, the exact time of 
whose life is not known. The Indians consider him 
as the author of the philosophical system which, under 
the name of Nyaya (logic), is still in use among them. 
All we know of him is derived from the mythical tra- 
dition contained in the Ramayana and the Puranas. 
According to this legend, Gotama was born in Mount 
Himalaya, and for a long time lived as a hermit in 
the woods; he then married Ahalya, one of the daugh- 
ters of Brahma, but subsequently divorced her for 
having been led astray by Indra. lie spent the re- 
mainder of his life in prayer and ascetic practices, and 
when he died he left his disciples precepts which they 
commented on, and which together form the Xyaya. 
The work in which his system is expounded has been 
published, for the use of the Indian schools, under the 
title Xyaya sutra vritti (The logical Aphorisms of Go - 
luma'), with a Commentary by Yishvanath Battacharya, 
published under the authority of the Committee of 
Public Instruction, Calcutta, 1828, 8vo. The book is 


GOT AM A 


942 


GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 


divided into five parts: the first and most important owe its peculiarities to the influence of Greece ? These 


contains the dogmatic exposition of the doctrine of the 
jV yay i. The author proceeds by axioms, of which 
there are sixty in his first part. He distinguishes six- 
teen points in the art of reasoning, the first nine teach- 
ing to demonstrate truth, and the seven others to de- 
fend it against objections. He begins by pointing out 
the general sources of certainty, of which he recog- 
nises four: perception, induction, comparison, and di- 
vine or human testimony. He next inquires into the 
objects of certainty, i. c. the objects presented to hu- 
man investigation, and recognises twelve. Each of 
these objects can be considered in different ways, and , 
thev can all be brought down to one — the knowledge 
of man and of his destiny. After having thus estab- 
lished his general dialectic principles, Gotama proceeds 
to their application. His third point is doubt: when 
anything has been presented to onr knowledge by one 
of the above-named sources of certainty, we must first 
doubt it, and only affirm its truth after thorough in- 
vestigation. Affirmation is the fourth point. After 
a thing is affirmed it has yet to be proved, and first of 
all exemplified: this forms the fifth point. When 
once the illustrative example is found, the object of 
the demonstration has to be stated : this is the sixth 
point. The seventh is the enumeration of the five 
members of the demonstration. Colebrooke gives the 
following illustration of this process of argumentation, 
in which some think they recognise Greek syllogism : 
1. proposition, This mountain is burning; 2. reason , for 
it smokes ; 8. explanation, whatever smokes is burning, 
as, for instance, a kitchen fire ; 4. application, and the 
mountain smokes; 5. conclusion , hence it is burning. 
The eighth point, which is called reductio ad absvrdum 
by Colebrooke, and raisonnement snppletif by Barth e- 
lemy Saint-Hilaire* is a sort of confirmation of the ar- 
gument. Finally, the ninth point is the definitive 
conclusion, the absolute affirmation which closes the 
argument. The last seven points treat of all the ob- 
jections which can be opposed to a demonstrated fact. 
These objections are sophisms, and he who uses them 
will necessarily be overcome by his opponent if the 
latter follows strictly the rules laid down in the Nyaya. 
As for the defender of truth, Gotama promises him not 
only the pleasure of defeating his adversary, but also 
everlasting happiness. This brief account of the first 
part of the Nyaya will suffice to show how inadequate 
the system of the Indian philosopher is as an analysis 
of the operations of the human mind. Still there is 
much to be admired in the doctrine of the Nyaya. T he 
method was an immense progress for India, and as 
such deserves a high place in the history of philoso- 
phy. It would deserve a still higher one if it had, as 
was advanced by Sir William Jones, served as a model 
for the Organon , and if the fifth point of Gotama had 
been the origin of Aristotle’s syllogism. Jones main- 
tained, on the strength of a more than doubtful tradi- 
tion, that Oallisthenes gathered during Alexander’s 
expedition a number of details on Indian doctrines, 
and afterwards transmitted them to Aristotle.- Ac- 
cording to him the logic of the latter would be but a 
development of Gotama’s system. This strange asser- 
tion is completely disproved by Bartlielemy Saint-Ili- 
laire, who lias shown that there is no relation between 
the Nyaya and the Organon, and that those who spoke 
of their resemblance must have been unacquainted 
with either. His conclusion is that the Greek system 
owed nothing to the Indian. But might not the ques- 
tion be reversed so as to inquire whether the Indian 
system may not to some extent be derived from the 
Greek ? Greek civilization hovered for centuries near 
the Indus and Himalaya. The Greek kingdoms of 
Bactria appear to have exerted great influence over 
the poetry of India : may they not also have had some 
influence over its philosophical systems? And may 
not the Nyaya in particular, which differs 'so much in 
its analytical process from the other Indian system, 


arc questions which it has so far been impossible to 
solve, since none has yet been able to find out the 
dates of the various Indian systems. Bartlielemy 
Saint-Ililaire believes the Nyaya older than the Orga- 
non, but admits that it is only authentically named in 
works posterior to the Christian a3ra. See Sir William 
Jones, Asiat. Research. ; Ward, View of the History, Liter- 
ature, and Mythology of the Hindoos; Colebrooke, in the 
Transact, of the A s. Soc. of Gt. Britain and Ireland, 1828, 
i, 70, and Miscel. Essays, vol. i; Windischmann, Die 
Philosophic , im Fortgang d. Weltgesch, pt. i, p. 3 804 ; Bar- 
thelemy Saint-Ililaire, in the Mem. VAcademie des Sci- 
ences morales (t politiqnes, iii, 241 ; Journ. des Savants, 
April and June, 1855 ; Diet, des Sciences philo soph. art. 
Gotama, Nyaya, Philosophic indienne; Bitter, Gesch. 
der Philosophic ; Hoefer, Nouv. Eiog. Gen. xxi, 336 ; Bi- 
ganclet (Bom. Cath. bishop), The Life or Legend of Gait - 
dama (Rangoon, 1800, 8vo). 

Gothic Architecture, the style of architecture 
that prevailed in central and western Europe from the 
middle of the 12th till the 16th century, being preceded 
by the Romanesque (q. v.), and followed by the Re- 
naissance style (q. v.). Under the influence of the 
revival of taste for classic art, the Renaissance archi- 
tects applied the name Gothic, meaning thereby bar- 
banc, to the styles of architecture that were devel- 
oped nortn of tlic Alps during the Middle Ages. The 
name Gothic is now limited by critics of all nations to 
the architecture of the period above indicated. 

In the extraordinary activity that pervaded every 
department of social, industrial, intellectual, and relig- 
ious life during the 32th century, many churches were 
founded upon a scale of grandeur and magnificence 
which, with the exception of a few isolated cases (as 
the Santa Sophia, q. v.), was entirely unprecedented 
in the history of Christianity. These churches em- 
bodied, in the style and spirit of their architecture, 
and the grand scale upon which they were projected, 
move of the sublime aspiration of the Christian faith, 
of confidence in its endurance, and love and sacrifice 
in its behalf, than do the churches of any other pe- 
riod. Many elements of the Gothic architecture had 
been developed during the classic, Byzantine, and Ro- 
manesque periods ; others were taken from the Sara- 
cenic architecture ; and others still were developed 
within the Gothic itself. The typical features of the 
Gothic architecture are : the universal use of the point- 
ed arch (Fig. 1); a general tendency to vertical lines; 



Fig. 1. Pointed Arches (from Liibke’s Geschichte der Bau- 
kunat). 



Fig. 2. Section of an Arch in the Cathedral at Nevers (ibid.). 


GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 943 GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 




Fig. 3. b, Capital and Base, and e, Section of a Pillar in 
the Cathedral at Cologne (ibid.). 



Fig. 4. Window in St. Lambert’s Church in Munster (ibid.). 

all mouldings are traced by mathematical lines (Fig. 
2), whereas in the Greek architecture they were drawn 
with a free hand ; the mouldings, capitals, pillars, etc., 
have lost all traditional classical forms and propor- 
tions, the. pillars being often many times their diame- 
ter in height ; the pillars have their outlines cut by 
numerous and often deep upright mouldings (Fig. 3), 
or are composed of a round nucleus surrounded by 
many smaller columns; the windows are greatly en- 
larged, and the walls are proportionally diminished; 
paintings, being thus crowded away from the walls, 
are replaced by paintings upon the windows [[see 
Glass Painting] ; the windows are ornamented with 
delicate and complicated tracery (Fig. 4) ; the walls 


are sustained against lateral thrust by prominent but- 
tresses and by flying-buttresses (Fig. 5) ; the ornamen- 



Fig. 5. Flying-buttress of the Cathedral at Cologne (ibid.). 

tation is conventionalized from various forms of foli- 
age, and is distributed freely over all prominent parts 
of the building, being thrown in great profusion over 
the facades, and especially around the main entrances ; 
the towers are square at the base, octagonal above, and 
terminate in lofty spires, which are richly decorated 
with ornament ; the plan is cruciform, the apsis being 
replaced by a choir, which is surrounded by a row of 
chapels (Fig. G). 



While these are the typical features of the Gothic 
architecture, great variety prevailed in their adapta- 
tion in the different periods of the style, and in the 
various lands where it was employed. 

1 Gothic architecture owes its character mainly to the 
, adoption of the pointed arch. There is no longer a 



GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 


944 


GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 



Fig. 7. Interior of the Cathedral of Cologne (ibid.). 


discussion as to the origin or the invention of the 
pointed arch, as it is to be found occasionally in all the 
most ancient styles of architecture, as the Egyptian, 
the early Greek, the Etruscan, and the Homan. It is 
found in the court of a monastery in Sicily, which was 
built in the Gth centuiy after Christ. It was adopted 
in Saracenic edifices in Cairo as early as the 9th cen- 
tury. Probably a knowledge of its effects in archi- 
tecture was brought to Europe from the Orient by the 
Crusaders, though the production of the pointed arch 
by the crossing of round arches in the external orna- 
mentation of Romanesque churches could not have es- 
caped the notice of architects. The contest for suprem- 
acy of the pointed over the round arch lasted a long 
time, the two being often employed in different parts 
of the same edifice. The earliest church in which the 
pointed arch only was adopted is the cathedral of St. 
Denis, founded 1144. The Gothic style, being thus 
fully developed, spread rapidly over the Tsle de France, 
Normandy, England, Spain, and the countries border- 
ing on the Rhine. A large number of the most mag- 
nificent churches in the world were founded between 
1150 and 1500, and thus the new style had immediate 
opportunity for full development. (Fig. 7.) 

Three chief periods are usually marked in the his- 
tory of Gothic architecture. During the first (1144- j 
1280), called by English writers the “early English” 
period, the general effect of tjie style was very grand, 
though rather severe. The ornamentation was rather ' 
meagre, and sculpture was used rather sparingly on ex- i 


tcriors. During the second period (1280-1880), termed 
by many writers the “decorated” or “complete Goth- 
ic” period, greater freedom and lightness were intro- 
duced into all the ornamentation, without diminishing 
the boldness of the general effect. The windows were 
enlarged and filled with rich flowing tracery. Hie 
third, usually termed the “perpendicular” period (I860 
-1550), and extending till t he revival of classic archi- 
tecture, was marked by a general decadence of style, 
and finally by a loss of all true Gothic spirit. r Jhe 
arches were depressed ; beauty of outline disappeared 
from the mouldings ; a minuteness, and finally a triv- 
ialitv, was introduced into all the ornamentation. The 
rapid decadence of t tie style was contemporaneous with 
the revival of taste for ancient classic art. In less than 
a century it was banished from all the countries where 
it had held sole dominion for nearly four centuries. 

The Gothic churches in France are distinguished 
for the magnificence of their facades and the grandeur 
of their interiors. As the true object of a church is to 
have a good interior, the French Gothic churches are 
to be esteemed superior to those of any other land. 
The cathedral at Rhcims (Fig. 8) is esteemed the finest 
Gothic church in existence. The other most impor- 
tant churches are the cathedrals of Paris, Amiens, 
Rouen, Dijon, Chartres, Peauvais, etc. Jn the cathe- 
dral at Paris (Notre Dame), and in some other French 
! Gothic churches, there is a greater tendency to hori- 
1 zontalncss in the lines of the exterior than is found in 
I the English or German Gothic. 


GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 045 GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 



Fig. S. Fapade of tlie Cathedral of Rheims (ibid.). 


The English Gothic cathedrals surpass those of all 
other lands in the varied combinations of striking ef- 
fects in the exteriors. The windows often overpower j 
the doors and other features of the facade, and the 
nave is usually too long and narrow for fine effect. 
The plan is frequently rectangular, and is sometimes 
crossed by two transepts. The finest examples of j 
English Gothic are the cathedrals of York (Fig. 0), 
vilisbury, Canterbury, Lincoln, Peterborough, and the 
Westminster Abbey. The richest interior in English 
churches is that of Henry’s chapel in the Westminster 
Abbey. The grandeur of the effect of this interior is ! 
diminished, however, by the minuteness of the orna- 
mentation. 

In the German Gothic churches the spires are more 
beautifully wrought, and are more harmoniously join- 
ed to the towers than in the churches of any other 
country. The spires of the cathedrals of Freiburg and 
of Vienna are considered the finest in the world. The 
111.— 0 o o 


round choir, with a row of chapels, that prevails in 
the plans of most French Gothic churches, is generally 
adopted. The cathedral of Cologne (founded 121s) is 
the largest Gothic church ever erected. Its towers 
are now (1SG9) being finished. When they are com- 
pleted, this edifice will be the most glorious work of 
ecclesiastical architecture ever erected. The style is 
somewhat affected by the too great minuteness of the 
detail. The harmonious perpendicular tendency of 
t lie lines is unexampled in any other edifice (Fig. 10). 
The other chief Gothic churches of Germany are the 
cathedrals of Strasburg, Freiburg, Ulm, Vienna, Magde- 
burg, Meissen. 

The Spanish surpassed the French, English, or Ger- 
man Gothic in the varied richness of outline ; but 
there were frequently too many horizontal lines in the 
interior as well as the exterior, and the ornament was 
often overladen. The cathedral of Burgos (Fig. 11), 
begun in 1221 and finished in 1567, is marked L> 3 ' a 


GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 


040 GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 






GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 947 GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 



Fig. 11. Cathedral of Cargos (ibid.). 


prodigality of external ornamentation. But, with all 
this richness, there is a lack of repose and of lightness 
in the general effect. Other important Gothic church- 
es in Spain are the cathedrals of Orvieto, Toledo, Bar- 
celona, Oviedo, Leon, and Valencia. The influence of 
the Moorish architecture is visible in many of the 
Gothic churches in Spain. There are several excel- 
lent examples of the Gothic architecture in Portugal, 
as the cloister church in Batalha and the church in 
Belem. The entrance to the mausoleum of Manoel, 
in Pie church of Batalha, is one of the most gorgeous 
specimens of Moro-Gothic architecture. 

In Scotland, Belgium, and Holland, Gothic archi- 
tecture took the general characteristics of this style in 
the adjacent countries of England, France, “and Ger- 
many. The cathedral of Antwerp is remarkable for 
the beauty of some of the details of the interior. On 
the other hand, the violations of constructive and 
aesthetic laws, both in the interior and in the exterior, 


are striking proofs of the decadence of artistic feeling 
during the latter part of the history of Gothic archi- 
tecture. In Scandinavia, also, Gothic architecture is 
marked hv the development of few, if any, native el- 
ements. The cathedral of Upsala is essentially a 
French, and that of Drontheim an English edifice. 
The interior of the latter is marked by a number of 
exceedingly picturesque effects. 

Gothic architecture was never fully naturalized in 
Italy. The traditions of classical and basilican archi- 
tecture in favor of round arches and horizontal lines 
overpowered the Gothic tendency to perpendicular 
lines. The predilection for paintings on walls pre- 
vented the adoption of glass-painting in the windows. 
Towers surmounted by spires were replaced by cam- 
paniles adjacent to the church. Marble of two col- 
ors is usually employed in the exteriors, and mosaic 
paintings frequently replace sculpture in the facades. 
The fronts, though very impressive in themselves, are 


GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE 948 


GOTHIC VERSION 



Fig. 12. Cathedral of Sienna (ibid.). 


often false, not representing the true size of the church. 
The finest examples are the cathedrals of Sienna (Fig. 
12), Orvieto, Florence, Perugia, and Milan. The ca- 
thedral at Milan has a inagnitieont interior, and its 
roof is covered b}' a forest of statuary and turrets. 
The tower of the cathedral of Florence, designed by 
* Giotto, is the most beautiful ever erected. Its cost 
was over $5,000,000. 

It is a mistake to consider Gothic architecture to be 
adapted only to ecclesiastical edifices. During the 
Middle Ages this style was applied with marked effect 
to edifices of all kinds — to castles and fortified gates of 
cities, as well as to city halls, courts of justice, and 
palatial residences. 

As to the material employed in the erection of Goth- 
ic edifices, stone was generally used. In Paly espe- 
cially, the finest marbles were often employed. "With 
marble of two colors very pleasant variations of sur- 
face effects were produced, many of which were incon- 
sistent with the extensive use of buttresses and flying 
buttresses that were so generally introduced in the 
Gothic edifices north of the Alps. Prick was also 
employed with excellent success in the erection of 
Gothic edifices, both ecclesiastical, civil, and domes- 
tic; this was especially the case in North Germany. 
Fine contrasts of surface color also were produced in 
North Italy by the alternation of brick and colored 
marble. 

Put few Gothie churches have been competed, and 
in fewer yet has the original design been carried out. 
At least one, and sometimes both spires are generally 
lacking. This incompleteness or defect in design is 


often copied in modern Gothic churches, frequently 
producing very absurd effects. 

"With all its beauty and even grandeur, Gothic ar- 
chitecture has some features that make its adoption in 
modern, and especially in Protestant church edifices, 
a most dangerous experiment. The pillars are apt to 
obstruct the view and sound. The clerestory is so 
high that it often detracts from the harmony of the in- 
terior, while its ornamentation is also lost to the view; 
high pointed ceiling is apt to produce an echo ; and 
the churches are very difficult to heat. But the great 
error in modern Gothic edifices is the indiscriminate 
copying of unfinished churches, built in the age of de- 
cadence of Gothic architecture. Sec Kugler, Gcschlchte 
der Bcmkunst ; Liibkc, Geschiclite der Bauhmst ; Fergu- 
son, Styles of Architecture ; H ug<rins, Course and Cur- 
rent of Architecture ; Pugin, Gothic Ornaments ; Yiol- 
lct-le-Due, Dlctionnaire de V Architecture Frangaise ; 
Street, Gothic Architecture in Spain. G. F. C. 

Gothic Version of the Birle. The Mccso- 
Goths were a German tribe which settled on the bor- 
ders of the Greek empire, and their language is essen- 
tially a German dialect. Their version of the Bible 
was made by Ulphilas, in the fourth century, after 
Greek MSS. in the N. T., and after the Septuagint in 
the Old. The author is generally regarded as an Ari- 
an ; but his peculiar doctrinal sentiments do not seem 
to have influenced bis translation. Of the O.-T. por- 
tion, nothing but a fragment of Nehemiah has been 
printed, although parts of other books have been dis- 
covered. A great part of the New has been published 
at different times in fragments. The four gospels ex- 



GOTIIOLIAS 


049 


GOTHS 


ist in the very celebrated MS. called the Codex Argen- 
teus, now preserved in the library of the university at 
Upsal, and minutely described by Dr. E. D. Clarke and 
Zahn, See Argenteus Codex. This MS., however, 
has considerable chasms. The gospels have been sev- 
eral times printed from it, but not very correctly. The 
ed. of Uppstrom is the most exact and beautiful (1854). 
Bosworth has lately published the Gothic and Anglo- 
Saxon Gospels together (Loud. 18G5). . Knittel discov- 
ered fragments of Paul’s Epistle to the Romans in a 
codex rescriptns belonging to the Wolfen buttel library, 
which he published in 17G2, 4to, and which were re- 
published bv Zahn in the complete edition of the Gos- 
pels issued in 1808, 4to. In 1817, Angelo Mai discov- 
ered important parts of the Gothic version among live 
codices rescripts in the Ambrosian library at Milan. 
They contain, for the most part, the Pauline Epistles, 
with the exception of that to the Hebrews, and two 
fragments of Matthew. Various portions were printed 
by Mai, in conjunction with Castillionaegus, in 1810. 
In 1820 the latter published the fragments of Paul's 
Second Epistle to the Corinthians. In 1834 fragments 
of the Epistle to the Romans, the First to the Corin- 
thians, and that to the Ephesians; and in 1835, the 
fragments to the Pauline Epistles to the Galatians, 
Philippians, Colossians, and the First to the Thessalo- 
nians. In 1830 the same scholar published the frag- 
ments of the Second Epistle to the Thessalonians, to 
Timothy, Titus, and Fhilemon. These were all com- 
bined in the edition by Gabelentz and Loeba, 2 vols. 
1S3G, 1847. — Kitto, s. v. See Versions of the Bi ble. 

Gotlio'lias (FoS-oX/m), father of Josias, which 
latter was one of the “sons of Elam” who returned 
from Babylon with Esdras (1 Esd. viii, 33) ; the same 
as Athaliak (q. v.) of the Ileb. text (Ezra viii, 7). 

Gotho'niel (F o9ovu)\ i.e. Othniel), father of Cha- 
bris, who was one of the governors (upyovret,) of the 
city of Beth ulia (Judith vi, 15). 

Goths, the, appeared in the countries of the Low- 
er Danube, the former seat of the Getse, in the 3d cen- 
tury A. I). Yet from this we are not to infer that the 
former drove away and replaced the latter, but; on the 
contrary, they are to be considered as one and the 
same people, as has been shown by J. Grimm ( Gesch . 
d. deufsek. Spracke , 2 vols. 2d ed. Leipz. 1853). This 
consideration sheds an important light on a period in 
the religious history of the Goths which had before 
been involved in deep obscurity, and gives us an in- 
sight into their deeply-rooted predisposition to embrace 
Christianity. The mighty confederacy of the Getse, 
founded by Boerebistes, was dissolved even before the 
emperor Augustus took up arms against them. Some 
of the dispersed tribes entered the Roman empire in 
the provinces of the Lower Danube about the first •cen- 
tury A. D., and from them sprung a new nation, com- 
posed of these different tribes again united, which, un- 
der the name of Goths, appeared during the reign of 
Caracalla, in the beginning of the 3d century A.D. 
Their unity emboldened them to attack the Roman 
empire ; and in the reign of Alex. Severus we already 
find them receiving tribute to preserve the peace, and 
the issue of the struggle with Decius led to new inva- 
sions. Commodian, the Christian apologist of the 
times, regarded them as instruments of divine justice, 
and precursors of the anti-Christ : according to his 
statement, the seventh persecution of the Christians 
ended on their approach. Three of their armies again 
invaded the Roman empire during the reign of Valeri- 
an and Gallienus, and, among the monuments of an- 
tiquity, destroyed the splendid temple of Diana at 
Ephesus. Finally, after a tierce conflict, Constantine 
the Great concluded with them a peace, which lasted 
so long as his family reigned. Some Christians, car- 
ried away as prisoners by the Goths during the in- 
vasion above spoken of, beeaine the instruments of 
their conversion. Sozoraen says (ii, G) : “The priests : 


taken captives healed the sick and cast out devils by 
calling on the name of Christ, the Son of God; and 
they, besides, overcame all the prejudices existing 
against the name of Christian by the purity of their 
life and by their virtues. The barbarians, full of ad- 
miration of the life and deeds of these men, saw that it 
would be well to gain the favor of the Christian God ; 
and when they sought for it, they were instructed, bap- 
tized, and organized into congregations.” The Arian 
historian, Philostorgius, gives a similar account of the 
propagation of Christianity among them. In the reign 
of Constantine, Athanasius speaks of the triumphs of 
the Gospel over the barbarians, and especialh r the 
Goths, now civilized. At the Council of Nice in 325, 
Theophilus, a Gothic bishop, subscribed the decrees. 
Ulphilas (see the article), having become bishop in 348, 
labored with great zeal for the propagation of Chris- 
tianity among the Goths, even in the tribes beyond the 
Danube, notwithstanding the persecutions of Athana- 
ric, the heathen king of the Visigoths, who commanded 
Christians to worship idols he caused to be drawn up in 
front of their houses, under penalty of being burned in 
their dwellings (.1 eta S.S.^ Sept. 15). In the middle 
of the 4th century, Eutvches and Audius, whicl; latter 
had separated from the Syrian Church, both labored 
among the Goths beyond the Danube, and the result 
was the erection of several monasteries for the con- 
verts, which, however, disappeared in the persecution 
of 370. These persecutions ceased only when Friti- 
gern, rival of Athanaric, took the Christians under his 
protection, and embraced Arianism, the general form 
of Christianity among the Goths. In 370 Ulphilas 
translated the Scriptures into Gothic ; but soon after, 
the hordes of Huns crowding from Asia upon the Os- 
trogoths, whose king, Hermanncli, was unable to resist 
them, drove part of the Visigoths south of the Danube 
into the Roman territory, while others followed Friti- 
gern into Thrace, where war, and the persecutions of 
the Roman prefects, interrupted the missions for a 
time. Finally, Fritigern, victorious in 378, marched 
with his troops on Constantinople, but died; and Theo- 
dosius, the new emperor, concluded a peace with Athan- 
aric, who had once more joined the Goths, and who 
died also soon after. Theodosius then induced them 
to become fwderati of Rome; and, in order to unite 
them still more to the empire, the council of Constan- 
tinople (A.D. 383), attempted, but unsuccessfully, to 
frame a creed acceptable to both the Arians and the 
Nicene party ; the latter also prevented the assem- 
bling of another council promised to the former for 388. 
Religions divisions among the Goths afterwards per- 
mitted Chrysostom to attempt uniting the secessionists 
from Arianism with the Catholic Church, and he or- 
dained presbyters, deacons, and lectors who spoke the 
Gothic language; he also sent bishop Unila to the 
Goths in the Crimea. Gothia, along the Cimmerian 
Bosphorus, was, during the whole of the Middle Ages, 
a see of the Byzantine Church, and the bishop of Ca- 
pha was also named bUhop of Gothia as late as the 
18th century. The Catholic Goths of the Crimea, men- 
tioned in the lGth century by Bnsbek, disappeared with 
the surname of the bishop. The Goild minores near 
Nicopolis seem to have disappeared among the nations 
which invaded the Danubian countries in the 7 tli cen- 
tury, and the two principal Gothic tribes returned West. 
The Visigoths, under Alaric, invaded the countries 
south of the Danube to the Peloponnesus, destroying 
the temples and altars of the heathen gods ; the sack- 
ing of Eleusis put an end to the famed mysteries of 
Ceres; pagan priests and philosophers were put to 
death ; and finally, in 408, after the death of Stiliclio, 
Alaric appeared before Rome, demanding tribute. To 
satisfy him, the statues of the gods — among them the 
Virtus Romance — were melted. Alaric came again in 
410, when he made the Christian prefect Attalus em- 
peror of Rome ; yet, fin<Vng that his end was not ac- 
complished, he returned a third time and lay waste 


GOTTHARDT 


930 


GOUGE 


the city, with the exception of the Christian churches, ! 
sparing only such of the inhabitants as had taken ref- 
uge in them. After Alaric’s death, his brother-in-law 
Athaulf succeeded him ; and, having married Galla 
Placidia, daughter of Theodosius the Great (in which 
marriage some saw a fulfilment of Dan. ii, 82), he at- 
tempted to reanimate the decaying Homan empire by 
Gothic help. Finally, the Visigoths were rewarded for 
conquering Spain to Home by permanent possessions | 
in Gaul, where they founded an independent empire, i 
See Visigoths. The Ostrogoths settled for a while 
in Pannonia, then some of them united with the Visi- 
goths in Gaul, while the greater part ‘.followed Theodo- 
mir into the Eastern empire. The emperor Zeno final- 
ly induced them to remove to Italy, where Theodoric, 1 
in 489, founded the Ostrogoth kingdom (see that art.). 
— Herzog, Real-Encyklop . v, 251 sq. ; Dr. J. Aschbach, 
Geschichte tier Westgothen (Frank, a. M. 1827); Kraft't, 
Kirchengesch. d. germ. Yolker (Berlin, 1854); Helffer- 
ich, £)cr westgothische Arianismus (Leipz. 18G0). 

Gottliardt. See Godeiiard. 

Gottsclialk (Gotteschaecvs, Godesciialc, 
Gotiieschalcus, surnamed Fnlgentius from his schol- 
arship), a theologian of the 9th century, celebrated for 
his share in the controversy on the subject of predes- 
tination and grace. He was born about 80G at or 
near Mentz, and was intrusted to the monks at Fulda 
(q. v.) at an early age. Growing up, he wished to 
abandon the monastic life, and obtained an ecclesias- 
tical release from his vow, but the abbot, Rabanus 
Maurus, retained him against his will, on the ground 
that no human power could annul the contract entered 
into bv his parents. After studying at Paris he en- 
tered the Benedictine convent at Orbais, and was or- 
dained. He was soon distinguished in the cloister for 
his paradoxes, his love of novelty, his zeal for science, 
his bold opinions, and, above all, for the warmth with 
which he supported them. At this period Augustine’s 
works were the favorite study of all ecclesiastics ; the 
learned young men occupied their time in copying 
them out, the professors in expounding, and the old 
men in recommending them. Gottsehalk passed his 
life in endeavoring to understand them, and lost him- 
self in the field of metaphysics and mystery. He 
wished to explain, understand, and penetrate every- 
thing. He believed that he found in Augustine the 
twofold predestination, viz. of some to everlasting life, 
and of others to eternal death, lie visited Home, 
Cajsarea, Alexandria, and Constantinople, everywhere 
sowing his opinions, and only reaping disappoint- 
ment. On his return to Italy in 847, he had several 
conversations with Notliingus, bishop of Verona, on 
the subject of his doctrines; and this prelate, alarm- 
ed at his principles, thought it his duty to combat 
them ; and, after having vainly endeavored to con- 
vince Gottsehalk of his danger, he referred him to 
Rabanus, now archbishop of Mentz. lie judged, as 
Xothingus had done, that Gottsehalk taught a dan- 
gerous and fatal predestinarranism, that is to say, the 
doctrine that “God had, from all eternity, predesti- 
nated men to their salvation or damnation ; which 
doctrine takes away a man's liberty, destroys all idea 
of good and evil, and reduces the human will to a 
kind of automaton.” In Gottschalk’s system, fore- 
knowledge was identilied completely with predestina- 
tion ; and predestination was arbitrary, both with re- 
gard to the saved and to the lost : the one infallibly 
attaining eternal life, “ the other being so necessitated 
to continue in his sins that he, can only he in name a 
subject of God’s graee, and only in appearance a par- 
taker of the sacrament.” See Predestination. 
Gottsehalk, hearing that Rabanus had declared against 
him, went to Mentz hoping to undeceive or convert ! 
him, hut he was unsuccessful. After several useless 
conferences, the}' wrote against each other ; and in 
or.e of his writings Gottsehalk accuses his adversary 


of Semi-pelagianism. The bishop, offended by this 
recrimination, assembled a council at Mentz, A.D. 
848, to which he cited Gottsehalk, condemned him as 
a heretic, and sent him for justice to the archbishop 
of Rheims, llincmar, his proper judge, to whom he 
wrote a synodal letter, concluding with these words: 
“We send to you this vagabond monk, in order that 
you may shut him up in his convent, and prevent him 
from propagating his false, heretical, and scandalous 
doctrine.” Hincmar was one of the most learned men 
of his time, but he was also the vainest of his knowl- 
edge, and the most fiery, lie was delighted to have 
an occasion for showing his talent for controversy and 
his zeal for the Church. Having ordered Gottsehalk 
to appear before him, he questioned him, and found 
him to be firm to his principles ; from that time lie 
became his irreconcilable enemy. lie assembled a 
council of thirteen bishops at the castle ©f Quierev, in 
Picardy, A.D. 849, to which he invited Charles the 
Bald, and had the doctrine of Gottsehalk examined 
before that prince. The unfortunate, but intrepid 
monk was condemned as a heretic, suspended from the 
sacerdotal office, declared incapable of teaching, and 
unworthy of liberty, eruellv flogged before the king 
and bishops, and shut up for the remainder of his life 
in the abbey of Ilautvillers. Such barbarous treat- 
ment, far from restoring Gottsehalk to the Church, 

! only revolted his proud and independent spirit, and 
[ confirmed him in his opinions. He died in prison, in 
i the monastery of Hantvillers, Oct. SO, i G7. When he 
I was at the point of death, the monks who had the care 
j of him gave notice of it to Hincmar, and asked him 
how they were to treat him. Hincmar had the cruel- 
ty to send to Gottsehalk a formulary of faith, with an 
order to sign it, on pain of being deprived of the last 
sacraments, and of ecclesiastical burial. Gottsehalk 
rejected it with indignation, and Ilinemar’s order was 
executed in all its rigor: nevertheless, the treatment 
he had undergone was censured by a large portion of 
the clergy of France. Lupus, abbot of Ferrieres, Ful- 
gentins, bishop of Troyes, and Remi, bishop of Lyons, 
highly disapproved of it. Remi, among others, said, 
and repeated many times, that heretics had formerly 
been censured, not hv blows, hut by reasoning. Ra- 
tramnns of Corby published an apology for Gottsehalk, 
and proved, as far as it could be proved, that the doc- 
trine he had professed was that of St. Augustine, and 
had always been that of the Catholic Church. John 
Scotns Erigcna wrote against Gottsehalk in his trea- 
tise De divina pradestinatione contra Gottschalcum Mo~ 
nachiim. The creed of the opponents of Gottsehalk 
may be found set forth in four articles in Harduin, 
Concilia , v, 18, 19. Archbishop Usher published a life 
of Gottsehalk (Dublin, 1G31, 4to, and Usher’s llorfo, 
iv, 1) which was reprinted at Hanau in 1GG2 (8vo). 
Full accounts of the controversy may be found in Yos- 
sins, Jlistoria Pdagiana , lib. vii ; Mauguin, Vet. aucto- 
ritm , qui s<rc. ix de pradestinatione et gratia scripserunt 
Opera et Fragmenta (forming the first part of his J7n- 
dict'c Precdestinationis et Gratae, Paris, 1G50, 2 vols. 
4to) ; Natalis Alexander, Hist. Eccles. saec. ix, x. See 
also Hook, Eccl. Biogr. v, 341 ; Gicseler, Oh. History, 
per. iii, div. i, § 1G; Mosheim, Ch. Historif , cent, ix, pt. 
ii, ch. iii, § 22-25; Hase, Church J list. § 211 ; especial- 
ly Neander, Church Jlistory, iii, 472-480; Hagenhach, 
History of Doctrines, § 183; Dupin, // i story of Eccles. 
Writers, cent, ix; Monnier, De Gothescalci et J.Scoti 
Erigena Cont rover sin (1853); Hoefer, Now. Biograph. 
Ghurair, xxi, 342; Arnold, Theological Critic , March, 
1852, art. iii; Borrnseh, Gottsehalk. sein Lehen u. sdne 
Ldire (Thorn, 18G8, 8vo); Methodist Quarterly, July, 
1857, p. 352; lllgen, Zeitschrift f. d. Just. Tltcol. 1859, 
Heft 4. 

Gouge, Tl:omar,, son of William, was bom at 
Bow, Middlesex, in 1G05, was educated at Cambridge, 
and settled at St. Sepulchre’s, London. He was a 
learned divine, an earnest preacher, most exeinpkiy 


GOUGE 


951 


GOULART 


in attending to all tlie duties of his pastoral charge, 
vnd, by the excellent qualities and accomplishments 
that distinguished and adorned his character, he pos- 
sessed great and extensive influence among his cleri - 
cal brethren, as well as in general society. “The vir- 
tue, however, which above all others shone brightest 
in him,” says archbishop Tillotson, “and was his reign- 
ing attribute, was his cheerful and unwearied diligence 
in acts of pious charity. In this he left behind him 
all that ever I knew, and had a singular sagacity and 
prudence in devising the most effectual ways of doing 
good. For the last nine or ten years of his life, he did 
almost wholly apply his charity to Wales, because there 
he judged there was most occasion for it; he did not 
only lay out whatever he could spare out of his own 
estate, hut employed his whole time and pains to ex- 
cite and engage the charity of others for assisting him 
in it. By the large and bountiful contributions thus 
obtained, to which he constantly added two thirds of 
his own income (amounting to £’-00 a year), there 
were every year 800, and sometimes 1000 poor children 
educated by his means; and by this example several 
of the most considerable towns in Wales were excited 
to bring up, at their own charge, the like number of 
poor children in the like manner, and under his care 
and instruction. But which was the greatest work of 
all, and amounted indeed to a mighty charge, he pro- 
cured a new and very fair impression of the Bible, and 
the liturgy of the Church of England, in the Welsh 
tongue, to the number of 8000; the former impression 
being spent, and not twenty of them to be had in all 
London. This was a work of such a charge that it was 
not likely to have been done in any other way. And 
always, but usually twice a year, he travelled over a 
great part of Wales, none of the easiest countries to 
travel in ; bnt for the love of God and man he cheer- 
fully endured all privations ; so that, all things consid- 
ered, there have not, since the primitive times of Chris- 
tianity, been any among the sons of men to whom that 
glorious character of the Son of God might be better 
applied, that he ‘ went about, doing good' ” lie died 
October, 29, 1G81. Among his writings are The Piiti- 
c'jdes of Religion (1079) : — Young Man's Guide to Heaven 
(1081), and other practical treatises. His IJo/'fo arc 
collected in one vol. 8vo, with a sketch of his life and 
Tillotson's funeral sermon at his burial (Loud. 1700). 
II is sermon on The Surest and Safest Wag of Thriving 
was reprinted in 185G, with a sketch of his life by T. 
Binney (bond. 12mo). — Jamieson, Cyclop. of Biography. 
p. 290; Tillotson, \ I "orlcs, i, 205 sq. ; Neal, Ilistorg of 
the. Puritans , iii, 233; Allibone, Dictionary of Authors. 
i. 710. 

Gouge, William, D.D., an eminent Puritan di- 1 
vine, was born in Bow in 1575, and educated at Eton 
and Cambridge. He entered the ministry at the age 
of thirty-one, and was minister of St. Ann’s, Black- 
friars, London, for forty-five years. He was esteemed 
as the father of the London ministers, and the spiritual 
oracle of his time. In 1043 he was called to be a mem- 
ber of the Assembly of Divines, and was in such repu- 
tition that in the moderator’s absence he frequently 
filled the chair. lie was appointed one of the annota- 
tors on the Scriptures, and performed, as his part, fr< m 
the beginning of 1 Kings to the book of Job, in a man- ' 
ner that gained high approbation. He also published | 
several works, the principal of which are : Domestical 
Duties , and The Whole Armor of God: — The Lord's 
Prayer Explained ; all to lie found in his 1 ) T ork$, re- 
vised and enlarged (Loud. 1020, fob): — a learned and 
very useful Commentary on the Hebrews (Loud. 1055, 2 
vols. fob), containing a thousand of his Wednesday 
lectures. He died December 12, 1G53. — Neal, History 
of the Puritans , ii, fill ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog . s. v. ; 
Middleton, Ev rngeliccd Biography , iii, 2G7 ; Life , by his 
Son, prefixed to his Works (1005). 

Gkmlart, Simon, a French Protestant theologian, 1 


was born at Senlis, October 20, 1543. lie embraced 
the Kefonnation in 15G5, went to study theology at 
Geneva in 15GG, and was consecrated pastor on the 20th 
of October of the same year. He obtained at once 
charge of a rural congregation, and in 1571 became- 
pastor of the parish of St. Jevvais, Geneva. Here his 
plain speaking brought him repeatedly into trouble 
with the civil authorities, yet lie remained at Geneva, 
notwithstanding numerous calls from other places. 
After the death of Beza (January 2,1007), the pastors 
1 chose him for their president, but he resigned that of- 
fice December 18, 1G12. He died at Geneva, February 
3, 1028. Goulart was a very prolific writer, both of 
original works and of translations and compilations. 
Among his scores of publications we name : Imitations 
chrestimnes, etc. (1574, 8vo) : — Expositio verissinia ct 
' sued net a de rebus nvper bello gestis inter A llobrogum 
! regulum et JJelceticas regis Galliarum aun 'iarcs capias 
(1589, 4 to) : — Yingt-huit Discours christiens touchant 
Vest at du monde et de VEglise de Dieu (1591, IGmo); — 
Apoph th egm dtu n i saerorum Loci communes , ex sacris, 
ecclesiasticis et seecularibus libris colli cti (Geneva, 1592, 
8 vo ; French traush Gen. 1G04, 12mo) : — Vrai Disconrs 
de la miracideuse deli vra nee enroyee de Dieu a 1 1 ville de 
I Gtmre , le 12 dee. 1G02 (Gen. 1003. 8vo) : — Le sage Yieil- 
lanl (Lyon, 1005, 12mo; English, London, 10^1, 4to) : 
— Qmiraute-deux Tableaux de la mort rejm scutes (last 
cd. Lyon, 1000, 12mo ; German, Casscl, 1005): — Con- 
siderations de la Const ience hnmaine (Gen. 1(4)7, 8vo): 

, — Considerations sur divers articles de la doctrine chres- 
1 tienne (Saunnir, 1G08, Svo ; this may have been written 
by his eldest son, also called Simon, see next art.) : — 
Traite de V Assurance chrestienne ; plus un autre Traite 
, de V Assurance prophmie (Geneve, 1009. Svo): — Yingt- 
j cinq Meditations chresticnnes , etc. (Gen. 1010, IGmo) : — 
j Considerations de la mort et de la vie he ureusc (Gen. 1021, 

| 8vo) ; — Considerations de la sagesse de Dieu an goitre me-* 

\ nient du monde (Gen. 1023, Svo): — Recucil des choses 
mcmorables advenues sous 1 1 Ligne, etc. (Gen. 1537-90, 
3 vols. Svo); last ed. by abhe Goujet, under the title 
Manoircs de la Ligne sous Henri III et IV, etc. (Amst. 
[Paris], 1758, 0 vols. 4to). He also edited a number 
of authors, ancient and modern, with annotations, and 
translated numerous works on history and theology. 
Some of his letters were published in the Epist res fran- 
chises des personnages illustres et doctes ii J. J. de la 
Scala , mises cti luiniere par Jacques de Pivts ( Hal'd er- 
wvek, 1G24, 8vo). — See Tronchin, Oratio fnnebris S. 
Goulartii Sylvunectini , in Ecclesia Gincvensi past oris, 
etc. (Gen. 1028, 4to) ; Bayie, Diet. Hist. : Niecron, Me- 
nu tires, xxix, 3G3-374; Senebicr, Hist, litter, de Gi neve ; 
llaag, La France Erotestante ; lloefcr, jYouv. Biog. Ge- 
nit'ide, xxi, 409 sq. 

Goulart, Simon, a Swiss Protestant theologian 
(son of the preceding), was horn at Geneva about 1570. 
He was at first pastor of the French Protestant church 
at Wesel, and in 1001 was called to Amste:dam to take 
charge of the Walloon church. Being a zealous Ar- 
minian, he engaged in a controversy with his col- 
leagues, who as zealously defended Calvinism, and he 
was finally ejected. He wrote two works in defence 
of his views, which attracted great attention, and in 
1018 the Bemonstrants chose him as one of their de- 
fenders at the Synod of Dort. lie was, however, for- 
bidden to appear, as being under interdict. When the 
Armiuian ministers were banished in 1019, he followed 
Episcopius to Antwerp. When hostilities were re- 
newed between Holland and Spain lie went to Calais. 
In 1023 he was accused of conspiring against the prince 
of Orange, but proved Ills innocence, and the next 
year removed to Frederickstadt, where a large number 
of Bemonstrants had sought refuire. He died there 
March 19, 1028. He wrote, Brief Traite de la grace 
de Dieu inrers leshnmmes it de V eternelle election des f de- 
les ft reproba'ion des i/fdeles (Amst. 1G1G, Svo) ; — Kra- 
mer) des opinions de. M. Fid rice Bassecourt contennes in 
un Here de disputes in itu -e L’clection eternelle et ses de- 


GOULDIXG 


052 


GOURD 


pemfcinces (Amst.l618,8vo): — Kpitre mix Remonstrants hood of Jericho (‘‘Ricinus in altitudinem arboris insig- 
Wallons (1 G20, 8vo): — Trade lie la providence de Dieu nis,” Hasselquist, Trav. p. 555; see also Robinson, lies, 
it autre $ jxjints independans, uvec uue Refutation du ser- i, 553). The Hebrew name kikayon is so similar to the 
mon de Jos . Poujade centre les cinq articles des Reman - kiki of Dioscorides, that it was early thought to indi- 
t rants (1627, 12nn>); and eight letters, two in Latin cate the same plant. Dioscorides (iv, 164, 7 rqoi KiKtwc') 
and six in French, in the Epistole Remonstrant nun ec- ! states that the kiki, or croton, is called wild sesamum by 
clesiasticce et theoloyicic (Amst. 1G8*I, fob). See Niceron, some ; and proceeds to give in a few Avoids a graphic 
Memoircs ; Bill, remonstrantinm ; IJavle, Diet. Hist. ; description of the Ricinus communis , or castor-oil plant. 
Senebier, Ilistoire litt.de Gnieie; Ilaag, La 
France Proicstante ; Iloefer, Xouv. Lioy. Gen. 
xxi,414. * 

Goulding, Thomas, D.D., a Presbyteri- 
an minister, was born at Midway, Liberty 
County, Ga., March 14, 178G. He Avas edu- 
cated at Walcott, Conn., studied laAv for a 
time, and Avas licensed in 1813. He supplied 
the church at White Bluff* soon after, and la- 
bored successfully there for about six years. 

In 1822 he removed to Lexington, Oglethorpe 
County, and Avas subsequently elected pro- 
fessor in the Theological Seminary of the 
Synod of South Carolina and Georgia. After 
many years of laborious service in the depart- 
ments of ecclesiastical history and Church 
government, he resigned, and avhs called in 
1835 to his last charge in Columbus. lie Avas 
for several years in succession elected presi- 
dent of the board of trustees of Oglethorpe 
University, and died J une 2G, 1848. — Sprague, 

Annals , iv, 491. 

Gourd is the rendering in the Autli. Vers, 
of two Heb. words. 



\ \ Iff/ 

Hm, 

v If 


SC '-' . 


Castor-oil riant ( Ricinus Comnnni'td. 


1. Jonah’s gourd (]Tp“£, kikaycn Sept. ircfto- 


It has also been called Pentadactylus and Palma Chris - 
ti, from the palmate division of its leaves. It Avas 

. .. r , „ known at much earlier times, as Hippocrates employed 

Ki'i’rnX ulg. hedera), the name of a plant that occurs ... r . , lT , ’ y . , r J 

i / t • ^ . 1 , , , i i it in medicine ; and Herodotus mentions it bv the name 

only in Jon. iv, G-10 ; according to the Sept, and Pesh- * w • \ i* * - ^ 

. * . A P , * , . of (TiAAucvTTfnov (11, 91) Avhen speaking of Egypt : 

jto, a aourd ; but according to Jerome (who underwent rr , . , . . : , 1 , ” , ' 1 c 

. .. - “ The inhabitants of the marshv grounds make use of 


. 1 • ,« wnose aigumeuis aUienaens ueenues. iiimseji euuieiv 

moreover not likely to be found in the , ?atisfic( , (J j, j Iicll- . an(l conlinncd ,h c 

rid country of ancient Nineveh, but which • ,. 7 M Al * 

ed bv Jerome prolmblv only as a conjecture Talmud.cal p p , 1,1- oil, prepared from tl.c seec.s 


much obloquy for substituting “tVy” for the “ gourd' ’ of 
the old Italic A r ers. ; see DaAidson’s Lib. Crit. i, 2G7), 
the Talmud, and the Hebrew interpreters generally, a 
species of ricinus , the prdma Christi, Arabic el-kherica , 
Egyptian kik or kovki (Diod. Siculus, i, 3). From the 
statements of the text, it appears that the groAvth of 
the kikayon Avas miraculous, but that it Avas probably 
a plant of the country, being named specifically ; also 
that it was capable of affording shade, and might easi- 
ly be destroyed. There does not appear anything in 
this account to Avarrant us in considering it to be the 
ivv, which is a plant of sIoav growth, cannot support 
itself, and 
hot and ar 

Avas adduced by Jerome probably only as a conjecture 
from the resemblance of its Greek name kutooq to kika- 
yon. That the kikayon was thought to be a gourd 
seems to haA T e arisen from the kiki of the Egyptians 
being the kherwa of the Arabs, often incorrectly Avrit- 
ten keroa, that is, without the aspirate, which makes it 
very similar to kura when written in Roman charac- 
ters, which last in the East is applied to the gourd or 
pumpkin (Avicenna, c. G22). and is probably the La- 
yenaria vulyaris. To this plant, no doubt, the folloAv- 
ing passages refer : ‘‘The Christians and Jews of Mo- 
sul (Nineveh) say it was not the keroa whose shadow 
refreshed Jonah, but a sort of gourd, cl-kerct, Avhich has 
very large leaA'es, A r cry large fruit, and lasts but about 
four months” (Niebuhr, Arabia , p. 148). So Volney : 
“ Whoever has traA'elled to Cairo or Rosetta knows 
that the species of gourd called kerra will, in twenty- 
four hours, send out shoots near four inches Ion: 


an oil Avhich they term kiki, expressed from the Silli- 
evprian plant.” That it has been known there from 
the earliest times is evident from Caillaud having 
found castor-oil seeds in some very’ ancient sarcophagi. 
That the Arabs considered their khenva to be the same 
plant is evident from AA'icenna on this article, or 
Viirieaa of the translation of Elempius (p. 301); so 
Scrapion (iii, c. 79). But most decisive of all seems 
the demotion of the Hebrew word from the Egyptian 
kiki (Herodot. ii, 94 ; comp. Bahr, ad loc. ; and Jablon- 
sky, Opusc. pt. i, p. 110), established by Celsius, Avith 
whose arguments Michaelis declares himself entirely 

the 


of the ricinus (Buxtorf, Lex. Chald. Talmud, col. 2029), 
and Dioscorides, iv, 1G4, where Kporiov (=Palma 
Christi) is described under the name of kIku, and the 
oil made from its seeds is called id Kirov i\caov (Ko- 
senmuller, p. 127). Lady Calcott states that the mod- 
ern JeAvs of London use this oil, by the name of oil of 
kik, for their Sabbath lamps, it being one of the lWe 
kinds of oil which their traditions alloAv them to em- 
ploy. The castor-oil plant attains a considerable size 
in one season ; and though in Europe it is cnl}’ known 
as an herb, in India it frequently may be seen, especial- 
ly at the margins of fields, of the size of a tree. So at 
Basra, Niebuhr saAv an il-hroa Avhich had the form 
and appearance of a tree. From the erect habit, and 
the breadth of its foliage, this plant throws an ample 
shade, especially Avhen young. From the softness and 
little substance of its stem, it may easily be destroyed 


{Travels, \, 71). In Jerome's own description of the insects, which Eumphius describes ns sometimes 
plant, howcA'er (Comment, ad loc.), called in Syr. karo , l )e hig the case. It would then necessarily dry up rap- 
and lhinic el-ktroa , Celsius recognises the castor-oil hUy* As it is Avell suited to the country, and to the 
plant {Hierobot. ii, 273 sq. ; Boehart, Jlierez. ii. 293, purpose indicated in the text, and as its name kiki is 
623). The Ricinus was seen by Ramvolf {Trav. p. 52) so similar to kikayon, it is generally thought by inter- 
in great abundance near Tripoli, where the Arabs call- preters to he the plant which the sacred penman had 
ed it el-k'-rua, while both Hnsselquist and Robinson v * ew ' — Kitto, s. \\ ; Smith, s. a\ 

obserA'ed very large specimens of it in the neighbor- This opinion, however, that the first-named plant 


GOURD 


953 


GOURD 


above is the true representative of Jonah's gourd, is 
reviewed by the Rev. II. Lobdell, M.D., missionary in 
Assyria, in a letter published in the Bibliotheca Sacra , 
April C, 1855, p. 395 sq., who says, “TheMohammedans, 
Christians, and Jews all agree in referring the plant 
to the kera, a kind of pumpkin peculiar to the East. 
The leaves are large, and the rapidity of growth aston- 
ishing. Its fruit is for the most part eaten in a fresh 
state, and is somewhat like the squash. It has no 
more than a generic resemblance to the gourd of the 
United States, though l suppose that both are a species 
of the cucurbita . It is grown in great abundance on 
the alluvial banks of the Tigris, and on the plain be- 
tween the river and the ruins of Nineveh, which is 
about a mile wide. . . . The castor-oil plant is culti- 
vated, indeed, to some extent here, but is never train- 
ed, like the kera, to run over structures of mud and 
brush to form booths in which the gardeners may pro- 
tect themselves from the terrible heats of the Asiatic 
sun. I have seen at a single glance dozens of these 
booths — these lodges in the fields of melons and cu- 
cumbers around the old walls of Nineveh (Isa. i, 8) — 
covered with the vines of the kera, of which there are 
numerous species, the fruit of which weighs from one 
to fifty pounds. One species, growing in Kurdistan, 
a few days’ distant from Mosul, is a genuine gourd; 
but there is no probability that it ever flourished on 
the hot plains of Mosul.” The same view is taken by 
Thomson ( Land and Book, i, 96 sq.), who says that 
“ Orientals never dream of training a castor-oil plant 
over a booth, or planting it for shade ; and they would 
have but small respect for any one -who did. It is in 
no way adapted for that purpose, while thousands of 
arbors are covered with various creepers of the gourd 
family. . . . The gourd grows with extraordinary ra- 
pidity. In a few days after it has begun to run the 
whole arbor is covered. It forms a shade absolutely 
impenetrable to the sun’s rays even at noonday. It 
flourishes best in the very hottest part of summer. 
Lastly, when injured or cut, it withers away with 
equal rapidity.” See Jonah. 



Oriental Arbor covered with a Gourd-v 


f 2. Wild gourds (r*!:*]55, pakkuoth' ; Sept. toXvtti], 
Vidg. coloeynthidai). It is related in 2 Kings iv, 38- 
40 that Elisha, having come again to Gilgal, when 
there was a famine in the land, and many sons of the 
prophets were assembled there, he ordered his servant 
to prepare for them a dish of vegetables : “ One went 
out into the field to gather kerbs ( oroth ), and found a 
wild vine (riTJ 123, field-vine), and gathered thereof 
wild gourds (n"]33 P3*|p2 , fold pakkuoth) his lap-full, 
and came and shred them into the pot of pottage, for 
they knew them not.” “So they poured out for the 
men to eat; but as they were eating of the pottage, 
they cried out, 0 thou man of God, there is death in 
the pot; and they could not eat thereof.” Though a 
few other plants have been indicated, the pakkuoth has 
almost universally been supposed to be one of the 
family of the gourd or cucumber-like plants, several 
of which are conspicuous for their bitterness, and a 
few poisonous, while others, it is well-known, are edi- 


lle. The reasons are given in detail by Celsius {Hie- 
robot, i, 393). (1.) The name is supposed to be derived 

from 3* £2, paka' , “to split,” or “to burst,” from the 
exploding of the fruit, and scattering the seeds on be- 
ing touched ; and this is the characteristic of the spe- 
cies called the wild cucumber by the ancients. (2.) 
The form of the fruit appears to have been ovoid, as 
the name is essentially the same with that of the 
“ knops,” or C'PJT'S, pekaim' , of 1 Kings vi, 18; vii, 
24, rendered “eggs” in the Chaldaic version of Jona- 
than, to whom the form of the fruit could not have 
been unknown. (3.) The seeds of the pakkuoth, more- 
over, yielded oil, as appears from the tract Shabbaih 
(ii, § 2). The seeds of the different gourd and cucum- 
ber-like plants are well known to yield oil, which was 
employed bv^ the ancients, and still is in the East, 
both as medicine and in the arts. (4.) The bitterness 
w hich was probably perceived on eating of the pot- 
tage, and which disappeared on the addition of meal, 
is found in many of the cucumber tribe,. and conspic- 
uously in the species which have usually been select- 
ed as the pakkuoth, that is, the Colocynth {Cucumis Co- 
loeynfhis ), the Squirting Cucumber (J fomordlca elate - 
idum), and Cucumis prophetarum ; all of which are 
found in Syria, as related by various travellers. The 
first, or Coloquintida, is essentially a desert plant. 
Kit to says : “In the desert parts of Syria, Egypt, and 
Arabia, and on the banks of the rivers Tigris and Eu- 
; ph rates, its tendrils run over vast tracts of ground, 

I offering a prodig.ious number of gourds, which are 
crushed under foot by camels, horses, and men. In 
winter we have seen the extent of many miles covered 
i with the connecting tendrils and dry gourds of the 
' preceding season, the hitter exhibiting precisely the 
same appearance as in our shops, and when crushed, 
i with a crackling noise, beneath the feet, discharging, 
in the form of a light powder, the valuable drug which 
it contains*’ {Piet. Bible, note ad lot'.). In the Arabic 
version, hunzal (which is the Colocynth) is used as the 
! synonvme for pakkuoth in 2 Kings iv, 39. The third, 
or Globe Cucumber, “derives 
its specific name {Cucumis pro- 
phetaruni) from the notion that 
it afforded the gourd which 
‘the sons of the prophets’ 
shred by mistake into their 
pottage, and which made them 
declare, when they came to 
taste it, that there was ‘ death 
in the pot.’ This plant is 
smaller in every part than 
the common melon, and has a 
nauseous odor, while its fruit 
is to the full as bitter as the 
ne. Coloquintida. The fruit has a 

rather singular appearance, 
from the manner in which its surface is armed with 
prickles, which arc, however, soft and harmless” (Kit- 
to, Piet. Palestine; Physical Geog. p. cclxxxix). But this 
plant, the fruit not being bigger than a cherry, does not 
appear likely to have been that which was shred into the 
pot. Celsius, however, is of opinion that the second 
of the above-named species, the Cucumis agrestis of the 
ancients, and which was found by Belon in descending 
from Mount Sinai, was the plant, being the Cucumis 
asininus of the druggists. This plant is a well-known 
drastic purgative, violent enough in its action to be con- 
sidered even a poison. Its fruit is ovate, obtuse, and 
scabrous, and likely to have been the plant mistaken 
for oroth, as it might certainly be mistaken for young 
gherkins. — Kitto, s. v. The wild cucumber bursts at 
the touch of the finger, and scatters its seeds, which 
the colocynth does not (Rosenmiiller, Alterthumsk. iv, 
pt. i, etc.). The etymology of the word from 3*£2 
has been thought to favor the identification cf the 



GOUSSET 


954 


GOVERNMENT 



ColocyntU ( Citmllui Colocynlhiui), with Fruit and Section of 
the* latter. 

plant with the Ecbulluni elaterium , or “squirting cu- 
cumber,” so called from the elasticity ivitli which the 
fruit, when ripe, opens ami scatters the seeds when 
touched. This is tiie dyoioc er/vnot; of Dioscorides (iv, 
152) and Theophrastus (vii, G, § 4, etc.), and the Cucu- 
mis sglvestris of Pliny (Hist. Mat. xx, 2). Celsius (Hi- 
erob. i, 393), Rosenmuller (Bib. Bat. p. 128), and Gc- 
senius (Thes. p. 1122) are in favor of this explanation, 
and, it must be confessed, not without some reason. 
The old versions, however, understand the colocynth, 
the fruit of which is about the size of an orange. The 
drastic medicine in such general use is a preparation 
from this plant. Michaclis (Suppl. Lex. JJeb. p. 344) 
and Oedmann (Verm. Samml. iv, 88) adopt this expla- 
nation. — Smith, s. v. 

Gousset, Jacques (Lat. Giissetius), a French Prot- 
estant theologian, and distinguished Hebrew scholar, 
was born at Blois Oct. 7, 1G35. He studied theology 
at Saumur, and acquired Greek under Lefevre, and 
Hebrew under Louis Cappel. Having become pastor 
of the church at Poitiers in 1GG2, he remained in that 
office until the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, re- 
fusing on three several occasions the professorship of 
theology at Saumur. In 1G85 lie went to England, 
and soon after to Holland, where he became pastor of 
the Walloon church of Dort in 1G87. In 1G92 he went 
to the University of Groningen as professor of Greek 
and of theology, and remained there until his death, 
Nov. 4, 1704. Gousset advocated a very different sys- 
tem of Hebrew grammar from the one generally fol- 
lowed in Holland. While the Dutch scholars consid- 
ered, like Er pen ins, a knowledge of Arab and Syriac 
as of the utmost importance for the correct under- 
standing of Hebrew, Gousset held that error must in- 
evitably result from attempts to find out the meaning 
of words and the grammatical construction of sen- 
tences in Hebrew by comparing it with the other 
Shemitic dialects which are but derivatives from it, 
and have often undergone changes to which the orig- 
inal language remains a stranger, lie considered the 
old versions and the writings of the llabbins as of lit- 
tle use in the interpretation of the 0. T. Schultens, 
who, at the age of eighteen, had a public discussion 
with Gousset on that subject, refutes his views in his 
Origines Jlebrcece and Yetus it regia via hebraizamli. 
Gousset wrote largely. We name, out of his numerous 
works, the following: Examen des emlroits de V accom- 
pli ssement des prophetic $ de Jf. Jurieu qui convenient la 
svppnfatian des temps (Anon. 1G87, 12mo) : — Jesu Christi 
ErangeUique Veritas salutifeYa demonstratn in con fata - 
tione libri Chizzul: Emonna (Amst. 1712, 4to) : — Consi- 


derations theologiques et critiques sur le projet d'une nou- 
velle version f ranejaise de la Bible , public Van 1G9G, sous 
le nom de M. Ch. Lec'ene , etc. (Amst. 1G98, 12mo), a vio- 
lent Calvinistic attack, accusing Leccne's translation 
of favoring Arminianism at the expense of correctness: 
— Commentarii Lingua Elraicie , etc. (Amst. 1702, fol. ; 
Lpz. 1743, 4to ) : — Disputationes in Epistolum Pauli ad 
Ilcbroios et ad Leviticum xviii, 4 (Amst. 1712, fob): — 
Vespene Groninganr , she arnica de rebus sneris collo- 
quia. u'A varia s:icrce Scriptune loca selecta eopTcahtur 
(Amst. 1G98, 8vo; 2d edit. 1711, 8vo) : — De viva deque 
mortua Eule , doctrina Jacobi apostoli evoluta (Amst. 
1G9G, 8 vo) : — Theses theologicce de tuporum int< rj retan- 
dorum metkodo apostollca (at the end of the Schediusma 
Theologue practices of Herm. Witsius, Groning. 17i9, 
Svo). Sec Bayle, (Euvres diverses, iii, G29; iv, 7GG, 773, 
and 837 ; Niccron, Memoires , vols. ii and x ; Journal 
des Savants, 1702, No. 40; Meyer, Gesch . d. Schiifer- 
Idiirung , vol. iv; Haag, La France Protestarde ; Iloe- 
fer, Nouv. Blog. Generate , xxi, 4G5 sq. 

Gouttes, Jean Louis, a French Roman Catholic 
priest and political economist, w r as born at Tulle in 
1740. lie lirst entered the army, and soon after the 
Church. He was for a time curate of a place near 
Bordeaux, then of Argilliers (Languedoc), where he 
remained until the beginning of the French Kcvolu- 
1 tion. He had acquired great influence over the clergy 
of the diocese of Beziers, and was in 1789 sent as their 
rep: esentativc to the States General. Here, on Oct. 3, 

‘ 1789, he advocated the abolition of the usury laws. He 
also seconded the motion of Tallcyrand-Pcrigord, bish- 
op of Autun, proposing the sale of the property of the 
clergy. In February, 1791, he succeeded Talleyrand 
as bishop of Autnn. But afterwards, opposing the ex- 
cesses of the Republican party, lie was accused of re- 
actionary sympathies, arrested, judged, condemned, 
and executed, all in one day, March 2G, 1794. He 
wrote Iheorie tie Vinteret de V argent, etc. (Paris, 1780, 
12mo ; 2d edit., w ith a Defense , etc., 1782) : — Projet de 
IP forme, ou reflexions soumises a V Assemble nadonale 
| (1790, Svo): — Discours sur la rente des liens du ckrge 
(April 12, 1790, Svo) : — Expose des Principts de la Con- 
1 stitution civile du Clerge, par les eveques deputes it l As- 
1 semblee nationale (1790, Svo); this latter work is under 
a collective name; but Gouttes was its principal au- 
thor. Sec Aloniteur nniverstl (1789, 1790); Qucrard, 

I Lei France litteraire; Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Genercde, xxi, 
470. (J. N. P.) 

Government of God. See Theodicy. 

Government of the Hebrew s. This we shall 
here treat in its secular or political relations, so far as 
these can be severed from the divine ordinances which 
underlie them all. See Monarchy. 

1 . Constitutional Form. — This varied materially in dif- 
ferent ages. With the Israelites, as with all other na- 
tions, unquestionably the earliest form of government 
was the patiiarchal, and it subsisted among them long 
after many of the neighboring countries had exchanged 
it for the rule of kings. The patriarchs, that is, the 
heads or founders of families, exercised the chief power 
and command over their families, children, and domes- 
tics, without being responsible to any superior author- 
ity. Such was the government of Abraham, Isaac, 
and Jacob. So long as they resided in the land of Ca- 
naan they were subject to no foreign pow er, but tended 
their flocks and herds w herever they chose to go^Gen. 
xiii, G 12), and vindicated their w rongs by arms when-, 
ever they had sustained any injury (Gen. xiv). They 
treated with the petty kings who reigned in different 
parts of Palestine as their equals in dignity, and con- 
cluded treaties with them in their own right (Gen. xiv, 
13, 18 21; xxi, 22-32; xxvi, 1G, 27-33 ; xxxi, 44-51). 
See Patriarch. 

The Hebrews having greatly increased in numbers 
in Egypt, it appeared very evident that they could net 
, live among nations given to idolatry without running 


GOVERNMENT 


955 


GOVERNMENT 


the hazard of becoming infected with the same evil. 
They were, therefore, in the providence of God, assign- 
ed to a particular country, the extent of which was so 
small, that they were obliged, if they would live inde- 
pendently of other nations, to give up, in a great meas- 
ure, the life of shepherds, and devote themselves to ag- 
riculture. Besides, very many of the Hebrew's, dur- 
ing their residence in Egypt, had fallen into idolatrous 
habits. These were to be brought back again to the 
knowledge of the true God, and all were to be excited 
to engage in those undertakings which should be found 
necessary for the support of the true religion. All the 
Mosaic institutions aim at the accomplishment of these 
objects, and the fundamental principle was this — that 
the true God, the creator and governor of the universe, 
and none other, ought to be worshipped. To secure 
this end the more certainly, God became king to the 
Hebrews. Accordingly, the land of Canaan, which 
was destined to be occupied by them, was declared to 
be the land of Jehovah, of which he was to be the king, 
and the Hebrews merety the hereditary occupants. 
God promulgated, from the summit of Mount Sinai, 
the prominent laws for the government of his people, 
considered as a religious community (Exod. xx) ; and 
these laws were afterwards more fully illustrated and 
developed by Moses. The rewards which should ac- 
company the obedient, and the punishments which 
should be the lot of the transgressor, w’ere at the same 
time announced, and the Hebrews promised by a solemn 
oath to obey (Exod. xx-xiv; Deut. xxvii-xxx). See 
Law. 

In order to preserve the true religion, God governed 
the whole people by a striking and peculiar providence, 
which has rightly been termed a theocracy. But, al- 
though the government of the Jews was a theocracy, 
it was not destitute of the usual forms which exist in 
civil governments among men. God, it is true, was 
the king, and the high-priest, if we may be allowed so 
to speak, was his minister of state; but still the polit- 
ical affairs were, in a great measure, under the disposal 
of the elders, princes, etc. It was to them that Moses 
gave the divjne commands ; he determined their pow- 
ers, and submitted their requests to the divine decision . 
(Numb, xiv, 5; xvi, 4 ; xxvii, 5). Josephus pro- 
nounced the government to be aristocratical, but Low- 
man and Michaelis are in favor of considering it a de- ! 
mocracy, and in support of their opinion such passages | 
arc exhibited as the following: Exod. xix, 7, 8 ; xxiv, 
3-8; Dent, xxix, 9-14. The Hebrew government, 
however, putting aside its theocratical feature, was of 
a mixed form, in some respects approaching to a de- 
mocracy, in others assuming more of an aristocratical 
character. See Theocracy. 

In the time of Samuel, the government, in point of | 
form, was changed into a monarchy. The election of 
a king, however, was committed to God, who chose one j 
hv lot ; so that God was still the ruler, and the king i 
the vicegerent. The terms of the government, as re- 
spected God, were the same as before, and the same 
duties and principles were inculcated on the Israelites j 
as had been originally (1 Sam. viii, 7 ; x, 17-23). In 
consequence of the fact that Saul did not choose at all 
times to obey the commands of God, the kingdom was 
taken from him and given to another (1 Sam. xiii, 5- 
14 ; xv, 1-31). David, through the medium of Samuel, 
was selected by Jehovah for king, who thus gave a 
proof that lie still retained, and was disposed to exer- 
cise, the right of appointing the ruler under him (1 
Sam. xvi, 1-3). David was first made king over Ju- 
dah ; but as lie received his appointment from God, 
and acted under his authority, the eleven other tribes 
submitted to him (2 Sam. v, 1-3). The paramount au- 
thority of God as the king of the nation, and his right 
to appoint one who should act in the capacity of his 
vicegerent., are expressly recognised in th~ books of 
Kings and Chronicles. Sec King. 

The rebuilding of Jerusalem was accomplished, and 


the reformation of their ecclesiastical and civil polity 
was effected, by the two divinely-inspired and pious 
governors, Ezra and Nehemiah : but the theocratic 
government does not appear to have been restored. 
The new temple was not, as formerly, God’s palace ; 
and the cloud of his presence did not take possession 
of it. After the deaths of Ezra and Nehemiah, the 
Jews were governed by their high-priests, in subjec- 
tion, however, to the Persian kings, to whom the}' paid 
tribute (Ezra iv, 13), but were ruled by their own mag- 
istrates, and were in the full enjoyment of their liber- 
ties, civil and religious. Nearly three centuries of un- 
interrupted prosperity ensued, although during that 
time they had passed to the rule of the Greeks, until 
the reign of Antioclius Epiplianes, king of Syria, when 
they were most cruelly oppressed, and compelled to 
! take up arms in their own defence. Under the able 
I conduct of tjudas, snrnamed Maccabrcns, and his val- 
iant brothers, the Jews maintained a religions war for 
twenty-six years with five successive kings of Syria ; 
and after destroying upwards of two hundred thousand 
of their best troops, the Maccabees finally established 
the independence of their country, and the royal station 
of their own family. This illustrious house, whose 
princes united the regal and pontifical dignity in their 
own persons, administered the affairs of the Jews dur- 
ing a period of one hundred and twenty-six years ; un- 
til disputes arising between Hyrcanus II and his broth- 
er Aristobulus, the latter was defeated by the Romans 
under Pompey, who captured Jerusalem, and reduced 
Judaea to the rank of a dependent kingdom, B.C. 59. 
— Piet. Diet. s. v. Sec J i:\vs. 

2. Executive Despotism. — The organs through which 
these various forms of administration were exhibited 
always partook of that absolute and arbitrary charac- 
ter, both in their appointment and their exercise, which 
prevails among Eastern nations. The government of 
the Israelitish state under the monarchy was, so far as 
we can understand its political organization, very sim- 
ple, and in its principal features analogous to modern 
Oriental forms (see Paulsen, Die Regicrung Morgan- 
Hinder, Altona, 1755, vol. i). The king, not simply the 
I central figure, but more properly the embodiment of 
civil power, bad around him as advisers and supreme 
executors of his commands several “ counsellors, ’’ or 
(2 Sam. xv, 12; 1 Chron. xxvii, 32; 1 Kings 
xii, 2), at whose head stands almost always the chan- 
cellor, "P2T’3, “recorder,” whose chief duty, how- 
ever, was that of historiographer (comp. 2 Kings xix, 
18, 37), and who is immediately recognised as the 
prime minister, such as is to this day the organ of 
royal communication in Persia (see Chaudin, Voyage , 
v, 258). Co-ordinate with him probably stood the 
“scribe,” ‘"■Sb, or state (cabinet) secretary (2 Sam. 
viii, 17; xx, 25; 2 Kings xviii, 18; xix, 2: xxii, 3, 
10 sq. ; Jer. xxxvi, 10). Sometimes we find several 
of these officers mentioned as existing at the same 
time (1 Kings iv, 3); their bureau is called “the 
scribe's chamber,” rZ‘3 (Jer. xxxviii, 12). 

By the side of this officer was also the pnefect of the 
palace, Tbl*, whose functions, however, 

were not entirely confined to the royal household (such 
as commissions and messages, 2 Kings xviii, 19 sq. ; 
xix, 4, 8; Nell, i, 11), but who was also employed on 
state business (1 Kings xviii, 3; 2 Kings xviii, 18; 
Jer. xxxvi, 3), and often assumed a high degree of 
importance (Isa. xxiii, 15 sq.), as he then became an 
officer of marked rank (like the modern major-domo'). 
Sometimes a prophet enjoyed the confidence of the 
king as extraordinary civil counsellor, and grew influ- 
ential as “the king's friend,” Tp-SH (a title of 
most trusty minister or prime vizier in the modern 
East; see Gesenius, Comment, on Isa. xxii, 15; Paul-* 
sen, Regie r. p. 286), such as Nathan under David and 
Solomon, and Jsaiah under Hezekiah. The superior 


GOVERNMENT 


956 


GOVERNMENT 


functionaries appear under the kings to have conduct- 
ed the civil administration. It was the duty of the 
priests and Levites to care for the maintenance of 
justice (Dent, xvii, 8 sq.). The king himself ren- 
dered decisions in the highest cases, not seldom in less 
weighty causes, or even altogether. Sec Trial. As 
officers* of the exchequer, at least so far as to provide 1 
for the wants cf the royal kitchen, under Solomon, 
twelve commissioners were appointed (1 Kings iv, 7 
sq.). Besides, each branch of the royal household or 
establishment, the domains and manors, had their par- 
ticular superintendent. See Purveyor. All these 
constitute together, as we may say, the regal hoard or 
court. On the other hand, under the 550 officials of 
Solomon alluded to in 1 Kings ix, 23 must be reckoned 
under-officers, of whose department of service we know 
nothing further. Among these intermediate jurisdic- 
tions are, at all events, included the lieutenants of 
provinces, rvir'Hlsn ("‘princes of the provinces,” 

1 Kings xx, 14 sq., i. q. district-superintendents), who 
arc first mentioned under Ahab of Israel. In con- 
junction with them may be classified the municipal 
officers, the elders and magnates of cities, to whom 
were addressed and who executed the ro}'al behests 
(1 Kings xxi, 8; 2 Kings x, 1). Sec Old Men. The 
oldest and leading men of the tribes (q. v.) also formed 
a kind of national representatives. The scribes (q.v.) 
further had a certain official position. See Governor. 

Under the Chaldiean rule, Gedaliah (q. v.) appears 
as governor ('lw) of desolated and depopulated Judaea 
(2 Kings xxv, 22), which after this time became, in 
connection with Egypt, Ccelo-Syria, and Phoenicia, a 
mere satrapy of the Babylonian empire (Heroins, in 
Josephus, Ant. x, 11, 1). The Persian court commit- 
ted all the provinces lying west of the Euphrates to 
satraps, rViHS (Ezra viii, 3G ; Neh. ii, 9), associated 
with whom for civil administration was a government- 
al chamber, with chancellor, secretary, and assessors 
(Ezra iv, 8, 9). Yet the same title, nns (i. q. pasha), 
was also borne by the (Jewi>h) praefeets of the new 
Israclitish colony (Ezra vi, 7 ; Neh. vii, 14, 18 ; comp. 
Hag. i, 1, 14; ii, 2, 21), which it had over its own peo- 
ple, exclusive of the circuit or ministerial officers 
(Neh. iii, 9, 14, 15, etc.), municipal officials, or 
(Neh. ii, 1G; iv, 19; v, 7, etc.), and judges (Ezra vii, 
25). See Tirsiiatiiaii. Besides the Persian civil 
functionaries, there were likewise in the subject terri- 
tories tax-commissioners or treasury-officers appoint- 
ed, (Ezra vii, 21), and under them a general 

forest-keeper (Neh. ii, 8). During the Seleucid-Syr- 
ian rule Judas l belonged, while their relations were 
peaceful, to the precinct of a general or arpanjyoc of 
Phoenicia and Ccele-Svria (2 Macc. iii, 5 ; iv, 4 ; viii, 
8), who was a provincial officer endowed with civil 
and military jurisdiction. The administration of the 
revenue was intrusted to special functionaries (2 Macc. 
iii, 3; 1 Macc. x, 41 ; xiii, 37). The chief manage- 
ment of the finances, however, was in the hands of the 
royal chamberlain (2 Macc. iii, 7 sq.). During the 
government of Antioch us Epiphanes we find military 
appointees (1 Macc. vii, 8) and extraordinary commis- 
sioners (1 Macc. i, 53; ii, 15 ; 2 Macc. v, 22) in Judaea. 
During the contests for the throne between Demetrius 
Soter and Alexander, the Jewish high-priests still re- 
tained the dignity of vassal-chiefs over Judaea (1 Macc. 
x), and Jews were intrusted with executive authority, 
even beyond the limits of that territory (1 Macc. xi. 
59). Simon was absolute hereditary prince over Jn- 
d;ea, and held also the right of coinage (1 Mace. xv). 
In all this period, as well as earlier under the Egyp- 
tian dominion, the imposts were not unfroquently 
farmed out to the high-priests, or to wealthy Jews (1 
Mace, xi, 28; xiii, 15; Josephus, Ant. xiii, 4, I sq., 
10), which brought them into close connection with the 
r oyal functionaries, and even conferred upon them a 


certain executive authority. — Winer, ii, 205. See As- 
sessment. 

For the government of Judsca under the Romans, 
see Roman Empire. 

3. Democratic Powers. — Notwithstanding the appar- 
ently unlimited and independent authority of these 
different kinds of rulers, the Hebrew people, especial- 
ly during the earlier and purer ages of the common- 
wealth, reserved to themselves a large measure of di- 
rective or vetatory and magisterial influence, which 
enabled the popular will to express itself on all great 
emergencies, and even in minor points, in a clear and 
decided manner, through regularly constituted chan- 
nels, the general assembly or the select committee. 

The supreme political body of the Hebrew nation, 
duly met in congress, is designated in the original by 
two words of nearly equal frequency in the sacred 
j writings, !TT£, eclah', from “fZ*, to appoint, also to bring 
\ together; and kahaV, from ^njT, i. q. Ku\th’, to 

convoke (Sept. tKicXiiata, awciywyi) ; Vulgate, Congre- 
gatio, Cains , Ecclesia). The phrase “tabernacle of the 
; Congregation however, which so frequently occurs as 
j indicating the place of meeting, is described bv neither 
of these words, but by TZ*!"2 [b»l'x] ; the versions con- 
sistently mark the difference also, the Sept, invariably 
translating this phrase by >) mcijvi) rov puprvpiov , and 
the Yulg. by tabernaculum testimonii; although when 
the word occurs without the (as in Numb, 

xvi, 2), it has somewhat of the ambiguity of the Latin 
Curia, which equally well signifies the Senate and the 
Senate-house. In this passage is translated by 

\lov\ij and Tempns Concitii ; in many ether passages 
the word is variously rendered, but generally bears 
reference to a set time or place, e. g. in Lam. i, 15, A. V. 
renders it assembly ; but in ii, G, place of assembly and 
solemn feast ; the Sept, and Vulgate arc equally capri- 
cious — Katpo r; and tempns standing in Lain, i, 15, and 
iopn'i, tabernaculum and festivitas in ii, G. This word 
is the most frequent original equivalent of our 
noun “congregation.” Apart from 3 HX (tabernacle), 
it has a highly generic sense, including all the holy as- 
semblies of the Jews. 

There is good reason to believe that, not unlike the 
Servian constitution of the Roman people (Arnold’s 
History of Pome, i, 70), the Hebrew nation from the first 
received a twofold organization, military as well as po- 
litical (comp. Exod. xii, 51 ; Numb, i, 3, and through- 
out ; Numb, xxvi, 3; and 1 Chron. vii, 4 and 40. See 
! also Bowman’s Dissertation on the Civil Government of 
the Hebrews , p. 159, 18G, etc.). The classification of the 
j people is very clearly indicated in Josh, vii, 14-18. (1.) 
The Tribe (TVS'! or ZZ'L') was divided into clans, gentes, 
A. V. “families,” r*ri3' 1"2. (2.) Each Mishpachah 

comprised a number of familiev, Auth.Vcrs. “houses,” 
ST2, (3.) Each T^Z or “house” was made up of 
qualified “men,” fit for military r.s well as political 
service, being twenty years old and upward (Numb, i, 
3). The word which describes the individual member 
of the body politic, “Cy ( j flur . Z"**Z;<), is very signifi- 
cant ; for it means vir a robore diet us (Gcsenius, Thes. 
i, 2G2), “ a man of valor,” from "Z;*, to be strong (Furst, 
Heb. Wbrteb. i, 239; Meier, Jlebr. Wurz. 1E.-5. p. 251). 
Now it was the organic union of the twelve tribes 
which constituted in the highest and truest sense the 
or ^np,i. e. “Congregation,” convened duly for 
a competent purpose (Kurtz, Hist. Old Covt. ii, 1G3). 
As with the Greeks there was an civipia, and with the 
Latins a Deminutio Capitis , so there were sundry faults 
which deprived a home-born Israelite (H^TX, Sept, civ- 
1 rdv^wr, Vulg. indigena; or J"1X, ci(it\<p6c,civis, in Dent, 
i, 1G) of his privilege as a member of the national as- 
sembly (see Deut.xxiii.l~S [comp, with Neb. xiii, 1- 


GOVERNMENT 


957 


GOVERNMENT 


3] ; also Exod. xii, 17, 19 ; xxx, 33, 38 ; xxxi, 14 ; Lev. 

\ li, 20, 21, 25, 27 xvii, 4, 9, 10, 14 ; xviii, 29 ; xix, 8 ; 
xx, 3, 6, 17, 18 ; xxx, 3, 6, 17, 18 ; xxii, 3 ; xxiii, 29 ; 
Numb, ix, 13 ; xv, 31 ; xix, 20). On the other hand, 
the franchise or civitas was conferred (with certain ex- 
ceptions, such as arc mentioned in Deut. xxiii, 3) on 
foreigners, D’ 1 *).? (A. Y. “strangers ;” Sept. TrpoaijXv - 
rat; Vulg. peregrini), after they had qualified them- 
selves by circumcision (Exod. xii, 19; Lev. xix, 34 ; 
Deut. xxix, 11, comp, with Isa. lvi, 0, 7). 

The above words, expressive of the national congre- 
gation, sometimes imply (1) a meeting of the whole 
mass of the people ; sometimes (2) a congress of depu- 
ties (John's Hebrew Republic , p. 243). (1.) At first, 

when the whole nation dwelt in tents, in their migra- 
tion from Egypt to Canaan under the immediate com- 
mand of the great legislator, the Congregation seems 
to have comprised every qualified Israelite who had 
the right of a personal presence and vote in the con- 
gress. In Exod. xxxv, 1, this ample assembly is des- 
ignated the entire Congregation 

of the Sons of Israel (— aaa avi’aywyi) ’lapaijX , 

omnis turba fliorum Israel). Similarly in Num. xxvii, 
19, the phrase is all the Congregation (jraaci 

j) Gvvctyioyi /, omnis multitudo ), while in Lev. xvi, 17 we 
have the entire assembly of Israel 

( 7 rdaa avvaywyi) 'Lcrpai/X, universus catus Israel). We 
would have no difficulty in supposing that every mem- 
ber of the Edah was present at such meetings as these, 
in the lifetime of Moses and before the nation was dis- 
persed throughout its settlements in Canaan, were it 
not that we occasionally find, in later times, an equal- 
ly ample designation used, when it is impossible to be- 
lieve that the nation could have assembled at one place 
of meeting ; e. g. in Josh, xxii, 1 1, where “ the whole 
congregation of the children of Israel” is mentioned; 
and again still later, as at the dedication of Solomon’s 
Temple in 1 Kings viii, 14 ; 2 Chron. i, 5. (2.) From 

this impossibility of personal attendance in the nation- 
al congregation, we should expeet to find a representa- 
tive constitution provided. Accordingly, in Num . i, 
10, we read of persons called not, as in 

the A.V., “renowned of the Congregation,” but ircmt to 
be called to the Congregation (Michaclis, Lairs of Moses, 
i, 230). In xvi, 2, they are still more explicitly styled 
^N' V ,1‘3, i. e. chiefs of the Congregation 
who are called to the Convention (jtv^kXiitoi fiorXpg, qui 
tempore consilii vocabantur). While in Exod. xxxviii, 
25 occurs the phrase Fnirn those deputed to the 

assembly, which exactly describes delegated persons. 
From Josh, xxiii, 2, and xxiv, 1, it would appear that 
these deputies were— (1) “The elders” (called "2 p7 
“eklers of the Congregation,” in Lev. iv, 15), 
as if deputed thereto; and “elders of Israel,” or “of 
the people,” as if representing them and nominated by 
them (Deut. i, 13). (2) “The heads,” i. e. 

“the princes of the tribes” (Numb, i, 4, 10), and the 
• chiefs of the Mislipcichoth , or ‘ ‘ families” (xxvi, passim). 
(3) “The judges not, of course, the extraordinary 
rulers, beginning with Othniel, but the B^BSr, refer- 
red as in Deut. xvi, 18, stationed in every great city, 
and summoned probably as ex-officio members to the 
congregation. (-1) “ The officers” ypap/tarelc, 
magistri; whom Jahn calls genealogists, and Ocsenius 
magistrates), whether central, as in Numb, xi, 10, or 
provincial, as in Deut. xvi, 18. These four classes of 
men, in addition to official duties, seem to have had 
attached to their offices the prerogative of representing 
their countrymen at the national convention or Edah. 
We have not classed among these delegates either the 
“Jethronian prefects” (Exod. xviii, 15; Deut. i, 13- 
15) or the seventy ciders (Numb, xi, 16), for they were 
undoubtedly included already in one or other of the 


normal classes (comp. Numb, xi, 16, and Dent, i, 15). 
The members of the Congregation were convened by 
the ruler, or judge, or king, for the time being; e. g. 
by Moses, passim ; by Joshua (xxiii, 1, 2); probably 
by the high-priest (Judges xx, 27, 28); frequently by 
the kings — by David (1 Chron. xiii, 2), by Solomon 
(1 Kings viii, 5, etc.), by Jehoshaphat (2 Chron. xx, 
4, 5), by Hezekiah (2 Chron. xxx, 2), probably by 
the Tirshathahs afterwards (see Ezra x, 8, 9, 12), and 
by Judas Maccabauis (1 Mace, iii, 42—16). The place 
of meeting -was at the door of the Tabernacle of the 
Congregation ; sometimes, however, some other place 
of celebrity v r as selected, as Shechcm by Joshua (xxiv, 
i) ; Mizpeli (Judg. xx, i) ; Bezek by Saul ; and Gilgal 
Ivy Samuel (1 Sam. xi, 8, 15). 

As long as the Israelites were encamped in the wil- 
derness, the Edahs -were convened by the sound of sil- 
ver trumpets. From Numb, x, 2-4, it appears that the 
blowing of one trumpet only was the signal for a more 
select convention, composed only of the heads of the 
Mishpachoth and the princes of the tribes ; whereas 
when both trumpets sounded the larger congregations 
met. llut after the occupation of Canaan, when this 
mode of summons would be clearly ineffectual, the 
congregations seem to have been convened by messen- 
gers (Judg. xx, 1, 12 ; 1 Sam. xi, 7, 8). 

As to the powers and authority of the congregation 
— it -was not a legislative body (Conringius, 1) Rep. 

1 Hebr. see 10, p. 216). The divine law of Moses had 
already foreclosed all leg' station, properly so-called; 
there was only room for by-laws (Sherlock, Dissert, iii, 

I 317). Nor -was the taaing power within the compe- 
tency of the Israelite Edah: “the national revenues 
of the state were so settled in the tithes and other of- 
ferings, and there being no soldiery in pay, all holding 
their estates by military service, there was no room 
for new or occasional taxes ; so that the Hebrew par- 
liament could have no business either to make new 
laws or to raise money” (Lowman, IXssert. p. 135). 
But there was, for all that, a large residue of authority, 
which sufficiently guaranteed the national autonomy. 
(1) The divine law itself was deliberately submitted 
to the Edah for acceptance or rejection (Exod. xix, & 
9, and xxiv, 3). (2) Their chiefs were submitted to 

this body on appointment for its approval; e. g. Joshua 
; (Numb, xxvii, 19) ; Saul (1 Sam. x, 24) ; Saul again, 
) on the renewal of the kingdom (1 Sam. xi, 15); David 
! (2 Sam. v, 1-3); Solomon (1 Chron. xxix, 22) ; so the 
later kings — we take as an instance Joash (2 Chron. 
xxiii, 3). (3) The Edah seems to have the power 

of staying the execution of a king's sentence (as in 
Jonathan’s ease, where u the rescue ” was not by force 
or violence, but by constitutional power carries 

with it the idea of authority], 1 Sam. xiv, 44, 45). (4) 
As in parliament, if it had not actually the prerog- 
ative of making peace and war, it possessed the power 
of cheeking, by disapprobation, the executive anthor- 
i ity (see Josh, ix, 15; comp, with ver. 18). In later 
times, indeed, the prince seems to have laid questions 
of foreign alliance, etc., before the congregation, either 
for deliberation or approbation, or both (see the case 
I of Simon Maccabrcus in 1 Mace, xiv, 18-28 \ (5) But 

in the absence of a ruler, the Edah itself apparent- 
ly decided on war or peace (Judg. xx, 1, 11 14; also 
xxi, 13-20). (6) The congregation was a high court 

I of appeal in cases of life and death (Numb, xxxv, 12, 
24, 25). (7) Capital punishment was not inflicted 

without the cognizance of the Edah , and the execution 
of the sentence was one of its functions (Lev. xxiv, 10- 
14 ; Numb, xv, 32-36). Lastly, the congregation. was 
consulted by Ilezekiah and Josiah in their pious en- 
deavors to restore religion (2 Chron. xxx, 2-4; xxxiv, 
29). When David mentions his “praises in the great 
congregation” (B^ Psa. xxii, 26, etc.), it is prob- 

ably in reference to his “composition of Psalms for the 
; use" of the Israelitisli Church, and the establishment 


GOVERNOR 


958 


GOVERNOR 


in its full splendor of the choral Levitical service” | 
(Tlirupp, Psa. i, 141), in all which he would require 
and obtain the co-operation and sanction of the Eduh. 
After the rejection of the theocratic constitution by 
Jeroboam, the congregation sometimes receives a more 
limited designation, e. g. pVJrrs “All 

the Congregation of Jerusalem" (2 Chron. xxx, 2), 
and rn‘rp brip"“r, “All the Congregation of Ju- 
dah f 7 Tft<ra >) tK\\))aUi ’love a (ver. 25). The phrase 
“ Congregation of Israel" is used, indeed, twice in this i 
later period (see 2 Chron. xxiv, 6, and xxx, 25); but 
in the former passage the expression directly refers to 
the original institution of Moses, and in the latter to 1 
the company whom ITezckiah invited out of the neigh- 
boring kingdom to attend his passover. — Kitto, s. v. 
Congregation. Sec Congregation. 

4. Literature . — See the Critui Biblici , vol. i ; Couring, 
De poll'd ca Ilebnvorum (Helmstadt, 1048); Cunseus, De 
republica Ihbrceoi'um (Leyden, 1617 ; Cur. 16GG; with 
notes by Nicolai, Leyd. 1705); Dietrich, I)e jure et sta- 
tu Judteorum (Marb. 1G48, 1GG1); Hiillmann, Staats- 
wfassung der Ismeliten (Lpz. 1834) ; Leidckker, An- 
tiquitates Judcoram (Amst. 1704); id. De % 'aria repub- 
lica llebrteor. (ib. 1710) ; bowman, Civil Government of 
the Hebrews (Loud. 1740, with an appendix, ib. 1741) ; 
Me no die, De republica Hebraorum (Par. 1G48); Paal- 
zom, De civitate Judaorum (Berlin, 1803); Peimer, De 
rejmblica Hebraorum (Ham. 1G57); Kciskc, Theocratia 
(Jena, 1G70); Sigonius, De republica Hebraorum (F. a. 
M. 1585; also in his Annotat. et Antiq. Leyden, 1701); 
AValch, Monarchic der J/ebrdcr (from the Spanish of 
Vine. Marques de S. Philippe, Numb. n. d. s. 1. vol. i) ; 
AYeliner, De republica Hebraorum (Vitemb. 1657). 

Governor, a term used bv the A. AT to denote va- 
rious degrees of authority and power: absolute and 
limited, acquired by birth or by election, military and 
civil. The numerous and mostly vague original terms 
arc found in other passages translated by “ruler,” 
“chief,” “prince,” “captain,” etc. 

1. ““^2, nagul' (Phcen. JO 53 ; Ar. najid ; Syr. 
n tgidci ; from *153 , a verb only used in Ilipli. and Hoph. 
in the signification of to tell). The original meaning 
of this root is to rise, to become conspicuous, visible, to 
be in front (comp. * 153 ), preesto , rorstehen , to lead, to be 
first (compare Germ. Fiirst = prince). The noun ““2.2, 
therefore, denotes a prominent personage, whatever his 
capacity, and is used of a chief or prefect, “governor” 
of the royal palace, Azrikam (2 Chron. xxviii, 7 ; com- 
pare 1 Kings iv, G; Isa. xxii, 15 ; o l kg no go c, chamber- 
lain, secretary of state), whose power (rV-EEE) seems 
to have been very considerable (compare Isa. xxii, 21 
sq. “ Shebnah ... a nail to the throne”), and who, 
it would appear, was distinguished from the other 
court ofheers by a particularly brilliant uniform (gir- 
dle and robe), and to whose insignia belonged a key 
worn over the shoulder. In a wider sense the word 
is applied to the chief of the Temple : Azariah, the 
high-i iriest, “ruler of the house of God” (1 Chron. ix, 
11 : comp. 2 Chron. xxxi, 13); Pashur, “chief gover- 
nor of the house of God” (Jer. xx, 1) ; further, to the 
“leader of the Aaronites,” Jehoiadali (1 Chron. xii, 
27). Again, it is used of the keeper of the sacred 
treasury, “ Shcbuel, ruler of the treasures” (1 Chron. 
xxvi, 24); of the chieftains of a tribe, “Zehadiah, the 
ruler of the house of Judah” (2 Chron. xix, 11); of 
the “captains” of the army (1 Chron. xiii, 1 ; 2 Chron. 
xxxii, 21); of the oldest son of the king, the heir-ap- 
parent, “Abijah, the son of Maachah [the chief], to he 
ruler among his brethren” (2 Chron. xi, 22). It is 
finally applied to the king himself; to Saul (A.ATrs. 
“anoint, him to he captain,” 1 Sam. ix, 1G, etc.), to 
“Messiah [the Anointed], thp Prince” (I>an. ix, 25, 
etc.). In the plural the word occurs in the more gen- 
eral sense of aristocracy, “Nobles” (Prov. viii, 1G), 


The Targum renders “ their judges,” by 

■pn^r::E ; and in the Talmud NTN.2 is used para- 
bolicallv for “leader of a flock.” “ AVlien the shep- 
herd is angry with his flock he gives it a blind leader” 

( Baba K. 52) — a corrupt generation to which God ap- 
points a bad king. Ilow far the Talmudical use of 
“J53 ? in the sense of “ flagellate” (As. 52) and of “ex- 
tend” ( Baba Mez. 74), may be connected with the no- 
tion of supremacy, reign, we cannot decide here. 

2. NE'2, nasi (from NE’2, to carry , lift up; lit. 

raised , exalted, elected ; Sept, yyovptvac, doyojj ), a 
word applied to the chiefs of the families of which a 
tribe was composed (Numb, iii, 24, SO, 32, 35; xvi, 2, 
etc. ; as many as 250 on one occasion, Numb, xvi, 2); 
and who, as deputies (commoners) at the National As- 
sembly, are also called Xasis of the congregation, or 
Xass of Israel (elected, called to the assembly). But 
it was also used of the twelve supreme chiefs of the 
tribes themselves (Numb, ii, 3 sq. ; vii, 2 sq. ; iii, 32, 
etc.). Both these dignities, the ehicfdom of a family 
as well as that of a tribe, ’would appear to have been 
elective — corresponding to the word — not hered- 

itary, as Michaelis and AViner hold. The Xasi of Ju- 
dah, e. g. Nahshon ben-Aminadab, does not descend 
from the first line of the tribe (Numb, ii ; compute 1 
Chron. ii, 0, 10). The Xasi of Issaehar, again, is call- 
ed Nathaniel bcn-Shuar, a name not found among the 
eldest sons of this tribe (1 Chron. vii, 1-3). Finally, 
in the table of the Xasis — no doubt the chiefs of the 
tribes — to whom the division of the Promised Land 
was intrusted by Moses at his death, no son of the Xa- 
sis of the desert occurs (Munk, Palest, p. 194). srj 
is further employed for generals, under a head (’1*N“), 
1 Chron. vii, 10; of Abraham, a Xasi of God, a mighty 
sheik; for non-lsraelitish “princes:” of the Mklian- 
ites (Josh, xiii, 21), and of the llivitcs (8hechem) 
(Gen. xxxiv, 2). On the Maceaba?an coins Simeon 
is called “ Xasi of Israel.” Xasi was also the official 
name of the president of the Sanhedrim (under whom 
stood the “ father of the tribunal, or vice-president”), 
whose seat was in the middle of the seventy-one mem- 
bers (Maim. Jad. Chaz. xiv, Syn. i). 

3. "Tp5, pakid' (from “J7E, to appoint ), an ojficir, 
official, magistrate, applied to the ecclesiastical dele- 
gate of the high-priest, who, together with the king's 
scribe, had to empty the chest containing the contri- 
bution to the Temple (2 Clnon. xxiv, 11); to the Lc 
vites (Noli, xi, 22); to the “chief” of the Temple (Jer. 
xx, i, 2); to “ifficers in the house of the Lord” (Jer. 
xxix, 26); to a military commander (2 Kings xxv, 
19; Jer. liii, 25), and to his adjutant or principal man- 
ager (Judg. ix, 284. Further, to the officers whom 
Joseph suggested that Pharaoh should put over Egypt 
during the years of the famine (Gen. xli, 34); to those 
who were to gather all the virgins unto Shnshan for 
Aliasnerus (Esth. ii, 3) ; to prefects, “overseers,'’ etc. 
(Neh. xi, 9; xii, 42); and, finally, to the nobles or 
“ princes” of the king (Jer. xx, 1 ; 2 Chron. xxxv, 8). 

4. E'rr, Shallit ', Ileh. and Aram, (from to 

rule, have power, Arab. id. ccmp. Sultan); “one who 
hath power’’ (Eecles. viii, 8); “Arioch, the king's 
captain” (Dan. ii, 15); “Joseph, the governor over 
the land” (Gen. xiii, G) ; a “mighty man’’ or hero 
(Eecles. vii, 19); a “king” or satrap (Ezra iv, 20); 
Daniel, the third “ ruler” (Dan. v, 29), etc. The verb 
irVj 1 is also used in later Hebrew in the sense “to 
have power,” of evil hours, evil spirits, etc 

5. AUiqdi' (from ; Arab. id. to join, etc.); 
originally, one who is put over a “thousand,” or 

viz. the round niunber of families which constitute a 
clan or subdivision of a tribe (comp, old Saxon “ Hun- 
dred”). It is first used of the chiefs, “dukes,” of 
Edom (Gen. xxxvi; 1 Chron. i, 51); we /*:d it at a 


GOVERNOR 


959 


GOVERNOR 


later period also applied to Jewish chiefs (Zech. ix, 7 ; | 
xii, 5, 6). This word is not to be confounded either 
with the captain of a body of a thousand men, or with 
the “rulers of thousands,” a kind of magistrates se- 
lected by Moses, on the advice of Jethro, for the pur- 
pose of judging the smaller matters during the sojourn 
of the Israelites in the desert; and who were, at a 
later period, superseded by the regular institution of 
the judges. The further use of the word in the sense 
of “friend” (parallel with Z*^, companion, Mic. vii, 5; 
Prov. xvi, 28, or Z*^’2, acquaintance, Psa. Iv, 14) 
must be traced directly to the root to accustom 

one’s self). 1 1 may further be noticed here that Matt, 
ii, 6 seems to have read the passage in Mic. v,2, “'sbxzi 
mirp, “among the thousands [clans] of Judah,” as 
rmrp ^312X2, “among the princes of Judah.” 

Derived from the partic. act. (Kal and Piel) are the 
following four : 6. pJMl, ppJTZ, Choke!/ ^ Mechokel/ 
(from ppn), lit. an engraver , a writer — scil. of laws 
(pH, ppn, ppn, law, decree); a lawgiver (Gen. xlix, 
10; Dent, xxxiii, 21); one who decides by the law: 
a judge (Isa. x, 1, parallel with “they that write;” 
with “they that handle the pen of the writer,” Jndg. 

v, 14) ; “the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our law- 
g'rer , the Lord is our king” (Jsa. xxxiii, 22) ; “ princes 
decree justice” (Prov. viii, 15), etc. The Talmud has 
retained the original meaning of engraving, painting, 
writing, e. g. Hp^pn *jrST' (Gem. res. 1, a), is ex- 
plained by “of the engravers, scribes” (A ruck, s. v.), 
and the imitation implied in the notion of “drawing” 
has become fixed in the word ilpri (Talm. Chill. 41, b, 
“that he shall not im’tate the Sadducees”). 

7. b'1372, J fosheV (b’DD, to he strong ), one who 
reigns , holds dominion, “rules;” used for nearly all 
degrees of power: of the taskmaster of the ant (Prov. 

vi, 7), the husband who rides his wife (Gen. iii, 16), 
Eliezer, who had the management of Abraham’s house 
(Gen. xxiv, 2), Joseph, the second in command over a 
country (Gen. xlv, 8), an absolute king (Psa. cv, 20; 
Isa. xvi, 1); also in the bad sense of despot (Isa. xiv, 
5) ; of the Messiah (Mic. v, 1) ; of God (1 Chron. xxix, 
12 ; Psa. ciii, 19), etc. No less is the word applied to ! 
the sway which the sun and moon hold over day and 
night (Gen. i, 18 [“omnium moderator et dux sol,” 
Cic. Tusc. i, 68; “sol coeli rector,” Pliny, ii, 4]). In 
the Tulmndical tract JaJ. 76, Vl'ID is nsed for Pha- 
raoh. 

8. “ir, Sar (from “Hb, to rule , reign; comp. Phcen. 
T;nD, vzro; Assyr. "ID, king, e. g. “ Nabukudnr- 
rnsur Sar Babilu,” Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, 
Jnscr. Borsippa, etc.), a word used of nearly all de- 
grees of chiefdom or wardenship. It is applied to the 
chief baker of Pharaoh (Gen. xl, 16), to the chief but- 
ler (xl, 2), to the “ ruler over the cattle” (xlvii, 6), to 
the keeper of the prison (xxxix, 21), to the taskmaster 
of the Israelites (Exod. i, 11), to the “prince of the 
eunuchs” (Dan. i, 7), to the “master of the song,” 
Chenaniah (1 Chron. xv, 27) ; further, to prefects, civil 
or military, of very limited or very extensive authori- 
ty: Zebul, the “ruler of Shechem” (Judg. x, 30); 
“Anion, the governor of the city” (1 Kings xxii, 26); 
prefects of the provinces (1 Kings xx, 15); “decu- 
rion” (Exod. xviii, 21); “a captain of fifty,” ttcit//- 
Kanrrtpw (2 Kings i, 10); captains (judges) over 
hundreds (Dent, i, 15); over a thousand (1 Sam. xviii, 
3); over many thousands (1 Chron. xv, 25) ; “cap- 
tain over half of the chariots of war” (1 Kings xvi, 0); 
“captain of the host” (2 Sam. xxiv, 2); general-in- 
chief (Gen. xxi, 22; 1 Sam. xii, 0): hence used — after 
God of hosts — of God himself (Dan. viii, 11). It oc- 
curs bv itself in the absolute state as a parallel to 
“judge:” “who has made thee a prince and a judge 
over us?” (Exod. ii, 14); to “cider” (Ezra x, *8), to 


“counsellor” (Ezra viii, 25), to “king” (Hos. iii, 4) 
l he merchants of Tyre arc called merchant- 

princes (Isa. xxiii, 9); the same term is applied to 
noblemen and courtiers, “the princes of Pharaoh” 
(Gen. xii, 15) ; “princes of Zoan” (Isa. xix, 11, 13). 
l he priests are called chiefs or princes of the sanctua- 
ry (Isa. xliii, 28; 1 Chron. xxv, 5), and the chief- 
priests again are called princes of the priests. Gradu- 
ally the word came to be used of angels, as patrons 
and representatives of special nations (guardian an- 
gels) : of Persia (Dan. x, 13, 20); of Greece (Dan. x, 
20); of Israel (x, 21); Michael, “the great prince” 
(xii, 1); the chief princes (x, 13); “the Prince of 
princes" — God (viii, 25; comp. Sept, in Deut. xxxii, 
8). The use of "b as guardian angel is retained in 
the Midrash, but the word is also applied in the Tal- 
mud to “a hero at the table, a mighty drinker” (Nuld. 
16, etc.). See Captain. 

Of foreign origin is, 9. Firi2, Pechali , H3 * 

Josephus, tVopyoc, of Tatnai (Ant. xi, 4, 4). This 
word has been variously derived from the Persian for 
“ magnates ” (Bohleti) ; Persic “to cook ” (Ewald) ; 
Persic for “Satelles,” “ Pedisequus” (Gesenius) ; from 
the Turkish for “general” (Friihn); from the Assyr- 
ian rakha (Sanscr. Pakhsha ) ; whence pasha — friend 
[of the king], adjutant, governor of a province (Ben- 
fey, Stern) ; from the Arab. Pe , “ the lower,” and gdh, 
“royal office” = Pegah, sub-king (Fiirst) ; from “the 
Arab, verb b in2, tcallen" (Jalin) ; and, finally, from the 
Hebrew HriD = ppn, r«ytw. It is applied to a sub- 
praifect of a province, who is subject to the authority 
of the prefect or real governor, in contradistinction 
from “pBITbnX, a satrap (Esth. viii, 9); from w b (ib.); 
from jZD, “sagan,” municipal officer (Jer. Ii, 28); and 
from Tjb.p, “king” or sub-king (2 Chron. ix, 14). It 
is used of the “chiefs” of provinces in the Assyrian (2 
Kings xviii, 24; Isa. xxxvi, 9), Babylonian [Chal- 
dee] (Jer. Ii, 57 ; Ezek. xxiii, 6, 23 ; Dan. iii, 2), Me- 
dian, and Persian empires (Jer. Ii, 28; Esth. iii, 12; 
viii, 9). Palestine stood, while under Persian domin- 
ion, under such officers, called “ prerfeets over the riv- 
er” (Euphrates), whose official residence [XD2] was 
in Jerusalem (Neh. iii, 7 ; Ezra v, 3; vi, 6; Nch. ii, 
7, 9). They were also called prefects of J udah (Hagg. 
i, 1) ; e. g. Zerubbabcl (Ezra ii, 63 ; Ilagg. ii, 21, etc.) ; 
Nchemiah, who succeeded Sheshbazzar (Neh.,v, 5, 14 ; 
xviii, 12). The word seems to have been adopted into 
the Hebrew idiom at an early period, since we find it 
nsed in 1 Kings x, 15 (2 Chron. ix, 14) of the tributary 
chieftains “ of the country” — together vrith the “ kings 
of Arabia;” further, of Syrian captains to be put in 
the room of the (vice-) kings at the time of Ben-hadad 
(1 Kings xx, 24); and, finally, it passed current for 
any person in high authority who was to be propitia- 
ted by gifts (Mai. i, 8). With respect to the 2 of Ju~ 
d;ea, introduced by Persian rule, it would appear that 
their remuneration (“bread of the governor,” Ezra 
iv, 14) consisted partly in kind, partly in money 
(“bread, wine, and forty shekels of silver,” Nch. v, 
15), chargeable upon the people (Neh. v, 38: “One 
ox and six choice sheep, also fowls, and once in ten 
days store of all sorts of wine”). Their office seems 
chieflv to have consisted in collecting the taxes of the 
province (Ezra vi, 8) ; an office at a later period in the 
hands of the high-priest, and still later let out on lease. 
— Kitto, s. v. See Pahath-Moab. 

10. The Chaldee term jZD, Segan' (in the plur. 
‘p:ZD) is applied (Dan. iii, 2, 27 ; vi, 8) to the govern- 
ors of the Babylonian satrapies, in a general way, in 
connection with other official terms, from which it is 
not clearly distinguishable, except that it appears to 
designate the provincial prtefeets or viceroys ; and 
elsewhere (Dan. ii, 48) it is applied to the prefects 


GOVERNOI 


960 


GOVINDA 


over the Magi, of whom one is especially entitled as 
chief or supreme (^) over his colleagues. The cor- 
responding Ileb. term sagan , is spoken of the 
provincial rulers under the Chaldee supremacy (Jer. 
li, 23, 28, 57, where it distinguished from nri2, above ; 
Ezek. xxiii, C, 12, 2:3; comp. Isa. xli, 25); also to the 
chiefs and rulers of the people of Jerusalem under the 
Persian supremacy (Ezra ix, 2; Neh. ii, 1C; iv, 8, 13; 
v, 7, 17; vii, 5; xii, 40; xiii, 11; in many of which 
passages it is associated with other titles of office or 
lionor); and in the Targums it is used of the vicar of 
the high-priest, or the presiding officer of the Temple. 
Corresponding to this term are the modern Persian, 
Arabic, and Syriac words for satrap. It is apparently 
of Sanscrit origin. — Gesenius, s. v. ; Hirst, s. v. 

The Greek terms rendered in the N. T. u governor” 
are the following, of which the first two relate to pub- 
lic or military officers, and the last two to domestic 
usages : 

13. Etknarck(2 Cor. xi, 32), an officer of 

rank under Aretas, the Arabian king of Damascus. It 
is not easy to determine the capacity in which he act- 
ed. The term is applied in 1 Macc. xiv, 47 ; xv, 1, to 
Simon the high-priest, w ho was made general and eth - 
narch of the Jew's as a vassal of Demetrius. From 
this the office would appear to be distinct from a mili- 
tary command. The jurisdiction of Archelaus, called 
by Josephus (JUar, ii, G, 3) an cthnarchv, extended 
over Iduma?a and all Juda?a, the half of his father’s 
kingdom, which he held as the emperor’s vassal. Put, 
on the other hand, Strabo (xvii, 13), in enumerating 
the officers w ho formed part of the machinery of the 
Homan government in Eg} T pt, mentions cthnarchs ap- 
parently as inferior both to the military commanders, 
and to the monarchs, or governors of districts. Again, 
the pra?fect of the colony of Jew s in Alexandria (called 
by Philo yE) f ap\)]r, lib. in Flacc. § 10) is designated by 
t his title in the edict of Claudius given by Josephus 
(Ant. xix, 5, 2). According to Strabo (Joseph. Ant. 
xiv, 7, 2), he exercised the prerogatives of an ordinary 
independent ruler. It has therefore been conjectured 
that the ethnareh of Damascus was merely the govern- 
or cf the resident Jews, and this conjecture receives 
some support from the parallel narrative in Acts ix, 
21, where the Jews alone are said to have taken part in 
the conspiracy against the apostle. But it docs not 
seem probable that an officer of such limited jurisdic- 
tion would be styled “ the ethnareh of Aretas the king; 
and as the term is clearly capable of a wide range of 
meaning, it was most likely intended to denote one 
who held the city and district of Damascus as the 
king’s vassal or representative. See Etuxarcii. 

32. 'Hyf/fwr, the Procurator of Judina under the Bo- 
mans (Matt, xxvii, 2, etc.). The verb is employed 
(Luke ii, 2, etc.) to denote the nature of the jurisdic- 
tion of Quirinus over the imperial province of Syria 
(see Gerlaeh, Die romuchen Statthaiterin Syrien undJit- 
(liiii, Berl. 1805). See Procurator. 

13. OtRovofiug (Gal. iv, 2), a steward , apparently in- 
trusted with the management of a minor’s property. 
See Steward. 

14. 'Ap\'<rpi'fc-\<]'oc (John ii, 9), “the governor of the 
feast.” It has been conjectured, but without much show' 
of probability, that this officer corresponded to the avg- 
7ruaian\oQ of the Greeks, whose duties are described 
by Plutarch (Sympos. Qiuest. 4), and to the arbiter bi- 
bendi of the Homans. Lightfoot supposes him to have 
been a kind of chaplain, w ho pronounced the blessings 
upon the wine that W'as drunk during the seven days 
of the marriage feast. Again, some have taken him 
to he equivalent to the TpaTtZoiroioc^ who is defined 
by Pollux (Omni, vi, 1) as one who had the charge of 
all the servants at a feast, the carvers, enp-hearers, 
cooks, ote. But there is nothing in the narrative of 
the marriage feast at Cana which would lead to the 
supposition that the dp\irpiK\ivoc held the rank of a 


servant. He appears rather to have been on intimate 
terms with the bridegroom, and to have presided at the 
banquet in his stead. The duties of the master of a 
feast are given at full length in Ecclus. xxxv (xxxii). 
See Arciutriclixus. 

In the apocryphal books, in addition to the common 
words apxwv, (W7rur//c, crpanjyoc , which are render- 
ed u governor,” we find (1 Esdr. i, 8 ; Judith 

ii, 14), which closely corresponds to VpQ ; t7rap\0Q 
used of Zerubbabel and Tatnai (3 Esdr. vi, 3, 29; vii, 
1), and TTpooTi'iTi)c , applied to Sheshbazzar (1 Esdr. ii, 
12), both of which represent Pine ; tepoarorrjc (1 Esdr. 
vii, 2) and 7 rpoordr/jg too Upoi* (2 Mace, iii, 4), “the 
governor of the temple” =^213 (comp. 2 Chrcn. xxxv, 
8); and aarpean )£ (1 Esdr. iii, 2, 21), “a satrap,” not al- 
ways used in its strict sense, but as the equivalent of 
arpargyoQ (Judith v, 2 ; vii, 8). — Smith, s. v. See 
Prince. 

15. In Janies iii, 4, the Greek term rendered “gov- 
ernor” is tv&vi’M’, a guide or director , i. e. helmsman 
(prop. KvPfpvijrtjQj whence Lat. guler nator. Eng. gov- 
ernor, the last in a different sense). See Sint*. 

The following list (modified from the Biblical Pipos- 
itory , 1832, p. 381, 382) of the presiding officers ( f .Iti- 
dsea (q. v.) will be found useful in comparing the histo- 
ry of those times. See each name in its place, l or 
those of Syria, see Syria. 


raocuKATors of jrn.fiA. a.t>. 

(1.) Copnniu* G- 1) 

(2.) Marcus Aiuhivnis l)-p> 

(3.) Annins Rufus. There three were appointed by * 

Augustus; the two fallowing by Tiberius 12-15 

(4.) Valerius Grains 15-* G 

(5 ) Pontius Pilntus LG-IG 

(G.) Marcellas, sent by Vitellius, the governor of Syr- 
ia, in place of Pilate . r G-37 

(7.) Manillas, sent by Caligula 37- 4J 

<S.) Publius 1 etvoniu?, who was at the same time 
governor of Syria, managed the affairs of the Jews 
himself. Under bis successor Manus j l-o, there seems 
to have been no distinct procurator of Judina for two 

or three years 40-42 

(!>.) Cuspius Fadus, sent by Claudius 45-4G 

(10.) Tiberius Alexander 47-4') 

(IP) Ventidius Cumanus 43-5:1 

(12.) A. ClaudiiH Felix 53-15 

(13.) Fortius Fes t us, under Nero 55-02 

(14.) Albinus G “-G4 

(15.) Gessius Horns, the last procurator of Juc’ien .. . C5- 


(1G ) Josephus, however, speaks ( Il'rr vi, 4. 3> ol a M; reus 
Antonins Julianas as being ( >r having been) i r 'curator (’-m- 
Tpo7r«a) of Judaea in the but struggle with the Romans, A.D. 
70. 

Govinda, Singii, the tenth and last guru (teach- 
er) of the sect of the Sikhs, was I orn at Patnali, in Be- 
liar, in 1GG1. He was a son of Togh Bahadur, the 
ninth guru, lie was educated at Madra Des, in the 
Punjab, whore the Sikhs have always been very nu- 
merous. His father, whose power was offensive to the 
Great Mogul Aurungzehe, was put to death by order 
of the latter in 1G75. Govinda himself had to retire 
to the mountains surrounding Djemnah, where he 
passed twenty-live years, devoting his time to relig- 
ious meditation, to the study of the Koran, of the relig- 
ious books of the Hindoos, and the Persian language. 
He then undertoe. k a religious reformation of the Sikhs 
(q. v.). He claimed to be a special envoy of God, 
though lie at the same time always declared that he 
was only a mortal man. He sanctioned the abolition 
of caste ; all the Sikhs are to he equal. 4 hey must 
only adore the one God. The worship of saints and 
of images of the Deity arc regarded as acts of supersti- 
tion. The precepts contained in the Koran and the 
Puranas cannot procure salvation. The faithful, on 
the contrary, must totally separate from the Mussul- 
mans and the Hindoos. They are permitted to kill 
animals and to use their flesh. Govinda declared all 
to he infamous, who would kill female children ; hut 
to exterminate the Mongols was, on the other hand, 
declared to lie a meritorious act. War was to he the 
occupation of all his followers, to every one of whom 


GOZAL 


961 


GRAAL 


he gave the title singh (lion or soldier), and threaten- 
ed with excommunication and everlasting damnation 
all who would abandon the chief in a battle at the mo- 
ment of danger. For admission into the sect a kind 
of baptism was prescribed, and it was declared to be a 
meritorious act to bathe from time to time in the lake 
of Amritsir. Govinda declared that he would be ev- 
erywhere where five of his disciples would be assem- 
bled; and he introduced a kind of council, at which 
the prominent chiefs met to discuss public affairs. Go- 
vinda gained many converts for the sect of the Sikhs. 
His relative, Ram Rae, who disputed with him the title 
guru, was put to death by his order. Having become 
involved in a war with the Mongols, he twice defeated 
them; but finally, as all his allies abandoned him, he 
had to withdraw into the interior of his states. While 
he endeavored to defend his strongholds, all his chil- 
dren perished. When the last stronghold, Tchamkor, 
fell, he made good his escape in the disguise of a dervish, 
and safely reached the desert of Bhutinda. Having 
been joined by many of his adherents, he was able to 
repulse his enemies. He finally accepted an invitation 
to the court of the Great Mogul Anrungzebe ; but, be- 
fore he reached Delhi, Aurungzebe died ; but the suc- 
cessor of the latter, Bahadur Shall, received him with 
marked honor, and is said to have made him governor 
of a province in the valley of the Godavery. There he 
died soon after. The Sikhs regard Govinda as supe- 
rior to the preceding gurus, and none of his successors 
has been deemed worthy to bear the title. Govinda 
is the author of a part of Deswen Padshah ha Greuth 
(Bo k of the Tenth King), one of the sacred books of the 
Sikhs, w’hicli is written in Hindoo verses, with a con- 
clusion in the Persian language. Of the sixteen parts 
of this work, the five first and a portion of the sixth 
are from Govinda. He also made additions to the 
other sacred book of the Sikhs, the Greuth (Book), a 
collection of sentences of several gurus. Besides these 
works, he wrote Rehet nameh (Book of Rules) and Ten- 
kha nameh (Book of Restrictions). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generale, xxi, 506 sq. ; McGregor, History of the Sikhs , 
vol. i. (A. J. S.) 

Gozal. See Fledgling. 

Go'zan (Ileb. Gozan, ‘jr.a, according to Gesenius, 
quarry ; according to F first, ford; Sept. YujZ,(ii> [v. r. 
FoJs«p and Xw£«p]), the tract to which the Israelites 
were carried away captive by Pul, Tiglath-Pileser, and 
Shalmaneser, or possibly Sargon (2 Kings xvii, 6 ; 1 
Chron. v, 26). It is also mentioned as a region of 
Central Asia, subject to the Assyrians (2 Kings xix, 
12; Isa. xxxvii, 12), situated on the Habor (2 Kings 
xvii, 6; xviii, 11). Ptolemy, in his description of 
Media, mentions a town called Gauzania ( Geogr . vi, 2, 
10), situated between the Zagros mountains and the 
Caspian Sea. Bochart ( Opp . i, 194) and others (so 
Rosen m tiller, Bill. Geogr. I, ii, 102) have attempted to 
identify this town with Gozan. Rennell further states 
that the river Gozan (1 Chron. v, 26) is the modern 
Kizil Ozon , which rises near Sinna, in the eastern part 
of the Zagros chain, and, after a winding course, joins 
the Sefid-rnd, which flows into the Caspian ( Geography 
of Herodotus, i, 521, 2d ed. ; see also Ritter, Erdknnde , 
viii, 615 ; Ker Porter, Travels , i, 267 ; Kinnier, Memoir 
on the Persian Empire , p. 121 ; Morier’s Second Journey , 
i, 267). This theory, however, places Gozan too far 
east for the requirements of the Scripture narrative. 
Dr. Grant supposes that the word Gozan signifies “pas- 
ture,” and is the same as the modern Gozan , the name 
given by the Nestorians to all the highlands of Assyria ! 
which afford pasturage to their flocks. He thinks that 
the ancient province of Gozan embraced the mountain- 
ous region east of the Tigris, through which the Kha- 
bur and the Zab flow ( NestoHan Christians , p. 125 sq.). 
A close examination of the notices in Scripture, and a 
comparison of them with the Geography of Ptolemy 
and modern researches, enable us to fix, with a high 

III.— P p p 


degree of probabilit)', the true position of Gozan. It 
appears from 2 Kings xvii, 6 (also xviii, 11), that Go- 
zan was in Assyria, which is there distinguished from 
Media; and that Ilabor wasa “river ofGozan.” There 
can be little doubt that the Habor is identical with the 
Khabur of Mesopotamia. See Habor. Gozan must, 
therefore, have been in Mesopotamia. The words of 
2 Kings xix, 12 appear to confirm this view, for there 
Gozan and Haran are grouped together, and we know 
that Haran is in Mesopotamia. The conjunction of 
Gozan with Haran or Ilarran in Isaiah (xxxvii, 12) is 
in entire agreement with the position here assigned to 
the former. As Gozan was the district on the Kha- 
bour, so Haran was that upon the Bilik, the next afflu- 
ent of the Euphrates. See Charran. The Assyrian 
kings, having conquered the one, would naturally go 
on to the other. In 1 Chron. v, 26, Gozan is, by an 
erroneous rendering in the A.Y., called a river , and 
is distinguished from Habor. The true explanation 
seems to be, that in this passage Habor is the name 
of a district, probably that watered by the lower Kha- 
bur; while the upper part of the same river, flowing 
through the province of Gozan, is called “Tia “Hip, the 
river of Gozan. Gozan seems to be mentioned on the 
cuneiform inscriptions (q. v.). Ptolemy states that 
Gauzanitis (F avZ,aviTie) was one of the provinces of 
Mesopotamia adjoining Chalcitis ( ’ Geograph . v, 18, 4). 
The same province Strabo calls Mygdonia (xvi, 1, 27), 
which may probably be, as suggested by Rawlinson, 
another form of the same name ( Ancient Monarchies, 
i, 245), *0 being prefixed and T rendered into o. As we 
find Halah, Habor, and Haran grouped together in 
Mesopotamia ; as we find beside them a province call- 
ed Gauzanitis; and as in Scripture Gozan is always 
mentioned in connection with the above places, we 
may safely conclude that Gozan and Gauzanitis are 
identical. Gauzanitis lay along the southern declivi- 
ties of Mons Masius, and extended over the region 
watered by the upper Khabur and Jerujer rivers to tho 
ranges of Sinjar and Hamm a. The greater part of it 
is an undulating plain, having a poor soil and scanty 
vegetation (Lavard, Nineveh and Babylon, p. 275). On 
the other hand, Mr. Layard describes the tract imme- 
diately along the Khabur as one of remarkable fertility 
(lb. p. 227). — Kitto, s. v. ; Smith, s. v. See Captivity. 

Graal (Gral, from the old French, but originally 
Celtic word Greal , Proven <jal grazal, and in medieval 
Latin gradalis) signified originally a “ bowl-shaped 
vessel.” The poetry of the Middle Ages makes nu- 
merous mention of the Saint Gral (in old French San 
great), a vessel said to have been made of a precious 
stone, and endowed with wonderful virtues. Accord- 
ing to the legend, the vessel was brought to the earth 
by angels, and kept first by them, then by a company 
of knights commanded by a king, in a temple built ex- 
pressly for it, at the summit of the unapproachable 
mountain Montsalvage. The legend was developed 
in the early part of the 12th century by the addition 
of Arabic, Jewish, and Christian elements during the 
wars between the Moors and Christians, and especially 
in the wars of the Templars in Spain and Southern 
France. In these countries it became a favorite theme- 
for poets. In 1170 it had became confounded with 
the legends of Arthur and of the Round Table, by 
Chretien de Troyes and other Troubadours of Northern 
France. In the legend of the Round Table the Saint 
Graal is considered as the vessel used by Christ at the 
last supper, and in which Joseph of Arimathea caught 
the blood that fell from the side of Christ (hence the 
erroneous meaning attached to the word, as Sang real, 
i. e. royal blood, blood of the Lord). The legend was 
made the subject of a poem in old French by Guiot de 
Provins, which has been lost. This tale furnished 
Wolfram von Eschenbach the materials for his Parci- 
ra/and Titurel, but he gave the subject a deeply alle- 
gorical meaning of his own. The subject was more 


GRABA 


9G2 


GRACE 


thoroughly treated by the author of the second Titurel 
in 1270; yet he connects it with the legends of Lohen- 
grin and of Prestcr John. 

The legend of the Saint Graal is of some importance 
in the history of the Church. Attempts have been 
made to show the derivation of the word itself, graal, 
from Garalah (rbjHr), i. e. foreskin, in allusion to the 
blood shed in circumcision as the type of the blood of 
Christ. Put it appears certain that it means a vessel, 
cup, or shell. A costly cup was really found by the 
first crusaders at Ciesarea. It was allotted to the Ge- 
noese, who brought it to Genoa, vdiere it remained for 
several centuries in the chapel of John the Baptist in 
the Church of St. Lorenzo, from whence it was trans- 
ported to Paris. There appears to be some connection 
between the legend of Prester John, as joined with the 
San Graal , and the still existing remains of the Gnos- 
tic sect known by the appellation of Disciples of John 
(Sabians, Zabians, Nazareans, Mendeans, Baptists). 
Not only the name John , but the locality assigned in 
the legend (viz. the interior of Asia, on the southern 
frontier of the Turkish empire), as well as the fact that 
in this Gnostic sect the king is at the same time high- 
priest, seems to favor the idea of a connection. 1 lie 
use of the Graal, according to the tradition, is as fol- 
lows : It is claimed on every Good Friday there comes 
into it, from heaven, a holy wafer, which is intended 
as the food for many ; thus the Graal is a sort of con- 
tinuation of the miracle of feeding the multitude (Matt, 
xv, 32). It provides food and drink in abundance for 
the initiated , but to them alone is it visible. It cannot 
be obtained by violence, but is to be received b} T faith. 
At the bottom of the legend we find the doctrine of the 
real presence in the Lord's Supper. The wanderings 
of the Saint Graal, which came from the East to the 
West, afterwards to return again to the East, points the 
Church to the duty of missionary enterprise, etc. In 
all these poetical legends one point is especially deserv- 
ing of notice : it is the evidence they afford of the ten- 
dencies of the Christian mind in all ages to fathom 
the unfathomable, and to cling to the memory of past 
events, and to reproduce them. But for this very rea- 
son it becomes the more necessary for us to distinguish 
between the original and the image, between the real 
facts and the errors which have grown up around them. 
By a just criticism, the poetry of the Middle Ages, which 
in latter times has been much studied, can be made 
very useful for the history of theology. — See Biisching, 
Dcr heil. Gral u. seine Hitter (.1 ltdcutsches Museum , Berl. 
1809, vol. i) ; Boissercc, Ueher el. Beschreihung d. heil. 
Grais(JS\ tin. 1834); C. Lachmann, II ’oframron Eschcn- 
bach (Berlin, 1833, 2d ed. 1854); San Marte (Schultz), 
Die Sage v. heil, Gral ( Leben u. Dichten IPs v. Eschen- 
bach , 1841, vol. ii); K. Simrock, Parcival und Titurel 
(Stuttg. and Tubing. 1842) ; C. F. Goschel, Die Sage r. 
Parcired u. v. Gral , etc. (Berlin, 1855) ; Herzog, Real- 
Encyk’op. v, 314 ; Dunlop, History of Fiction , p. 73 sq. 
(London, 1845, 1 vol. 8vo) ; Bullfinch, Age of Chivalry , 
p. 185-22G (Boston, 18G5, 8vo). 

Gra'ba (’Ay pa fid v. r. ’Ayyafid,Xu\g. Armachd), 
given (1 Esdras v, 29) as the name of one of the Netli- 
inim (“servants of the Temple”) whose “sons” return- 
ed from the captivity ; evidently the Hagaf.au (q. v.) 
or Hag a is a of the lleb. texts (Ezra ii, 45; Neli.vii, 48). 

Grabe, Johann Ernst, a ^Protestant theologian, 
was born at Konigsberg, Prussia, July 10, 1GGG. lie 
studied theology in order to enter the ministry in the 
Lutheran Church, but, having imbibed the liigh-church 
theory of apostolical succession, lie thought of joining 
t lie Boman Catholic Church, but, by the advice of 
Spener, he went in 1697 to England, where he was 
well received by William HI, who settled upon him a 
pension of £100 a year. In 1700 he was ordained a 
deacon, and was presented to a chaplaincy of Christ 
Church, Oxford, which was the only ecclesiastical ap- 
pointment he ever held. Upon the accession of Queen 


Anne his pension was continued, and in 1706 the Uni- 
versity of Oxford conferred upon him the degree of 
D.D. He now devoted himself to literary labors, in 
which he was industriously occupied until his death 
Nov. 14,1711. 

Of his numerous works the most celebrated is his 
edition of the Septuagint , the text of which is founded 
upon the Alexandrian MS. then in St. James’s Library, 
but now in the British Museum. Vol. i (Oxford, 1707) 
contains the Pentateuch and the three following books. 
Vol.ii was to contain all the historical books of the Old 
Testament; vol. iii all the prophetical books; and vol. 
iv the Psalms, the Looks of Solomon, etc. But after 
Grabe had begun to print the second volume, he was 
induced to postpone the appearance of that, and also 
of the third volume, by the expectation of being fur- 
nished with important MSS. and other materials, which 
would enable him to render them more complete. That 
no time might be lost, however, in expediting the 
whole work, he published in 1709 vol. iv, Continens 
Psalmorum , Jobi, ac tres Salamonis Libros , cum Apoc- 
rypha ejusdem, necnon Siracidec Sapicniia (fol. and 8vo). 
In the following year he published a Latin disseita- 
tion, giving a particular account of the reasons why he 
had departed from his original order of publication, 
and of the materials which he expected to receive in 
order to perfect his plan. These were, a Syriac MS. 
of the original books of the Old Testament, with Ori- 
gen’s remarks upon them ; and two MSS., one belong- 
ing to Cardinal Chigi, and the other to the college of 
Louis XIV. Afterwards he received these MSS., and 
made collations from them ; in the mean while he had 
prepared a volume of annotations upon the whole work, 
and also collected the materials for the Prolegomena . 
It required, hov'ever, so much time to digest the whole 
into proper method, that the second and third volumes 
were not published until after his death, the former in 
1719 and the latter in 1720. He also published Spici- 
legium SS. Pat rum et hareticorum saec. i, ii (Oxon. 1714, 
2 vols. 8vo); Jnstini Apologia Prima; Jrenai adversus 
Ilccreses Libri 1'; Epistola ad Millium (to shov r that the 
Alexandrian IMS. of the Septuagint contains the best 
version of the Book of Judges, and that the version of 
the Vatican MS. is almost a new one, made in the third 
century) ; An Essay upon two Arabic MSS. of th<> Bod- 
leian Library ; De Forma Consecraiionis Eucharistue , 
hoc est , Defensio Ecclesia G racer contra Romanam. He 
had also published in 1705 a beautiful edition of Bishop 
BulVs works (fol.), with notes, for which he received 
the author’s thanks. — Hook, Eccl. Biog. v, 347 ; Ilerzog, 
Real-EncyJdop . v, 310. 

Grace (Lat. gratia; Gr. ydptc; Hel>. and 
•JH), a word of various import in Scripture and in the- 
ology. 

1. Scriptnnil Uses.—Q .) Physical beauty (grace of 
form and person) (Prov. i, 9; iii, 22; xxxi, 30; Psa. 
xlv, 2, etc.). (2.) Favor, kindness, goodness, benev- 
olence, friendship of God towards men, or of men to- 
wards one another (Gen. vi, 8; xviii, 3; xix, 19; 2 
Sam. x, 2; 2 Tim. i, 9). (3.) God’s forgiving mercy, 

as gratuitous and opposed to merit (Bom. xi, G; Ephes. 
ii, 5; Colos. i, G, etc.). (4.) The Gospel generally, as 
contradistinguished from the la>v (John i, 17 ; Born, 
vi, 14 ; 1 Pet. v, 12, etc.). (5.) Certain gifts of God, 
freely bestowed ; c. g. miracles, prophecy, tongues, 
etc. (Bom. xv, 15; 1 Cor. xv, 10; Ephes. iii, 8, etc.). 
(6.) Christian virtues; e. g. charity, liberality, holi- 
ness, ete. (2 Cor. viii, 7 ; 2 Pel. iii, 18). (7.) The glory 
to he revealed, or eternal life (1 Pet. i, 13). "Wilson 
(Beutipton Lecture on the Conununion of Saints , Oxford, 
1851, 8vo) remarks as follows on the scriptural use of 
the word: “ Xclpig occurs in the Sept, version sixt}'- 
six times, of which number it stands sixty-one times 
for *jn, and its signification in the New Test, cannot 
he fairly estimated without reference to the idea ex- 
pressed by that Hebrew word. This is drawn alto* 


GRACE 


963 GRAFTON 


gether from Oriental life, and implies properly the 
good will and inclination of a superior towards an in- 
ferior, so much below him as to seek only for a spon- 
taneous and gratuitous favor, or to invite the favor 
only by his needs, hum ility, and supplications. The 
favorable inclination is manifested in a kind of conde- 
scending aspect, lienee constantly the phrase ‘find 
favor in the sight of ’ (“^“CS) : compare particularly 
Numb, vi, 25, ‘ The Lord make his face to shine upon 
thee, and be gracious unto thee’ (qirPV). Upon an 
examination of the use of the words *jil and “2H! in the 
Old Test, it will appear that a quality is sometimes 
implied in the object which has invited the favor of 
the superior; sometimes the favor is altogether gratu- 
itous: a few instances are subjoined. 1. A quality or 
antecedent merit is supposed: Gen. xxxii, 5; xxxix, 
4, 21 ; xlvii, 21); 1, 4; 1 Sam. xvi, 22 ; xxv, 8 ; 2 Sam. 
xvi, 4 ; Esth. ii, 15, 17; v, 2; Prov. i, 9; iii, 22; iv, 9 
(in these three places xdpiraq, spiritual graces') ; Prov. 
v, 19, hinnula gratia; xiii, 15, bona mens dat gratiam; 
xi, 16, mulier gratia (tv\rn]GTOQ ) ; in Nah. iii, 4, pul - 
chritudo meretricis. 2. On the other hand, the idea of 
merit or pleasing quality is excluded in Gen. xxxiv, 
11; Exocl. iii, 21; xi, 3; xii, 36; Numb, xxxii, 5; 
Ituth ii, 2; 1 Sam. i, 18; xxvii, 5; Jer. xxxi, 2; but 
particularly in Exod. xxxiii, 19, where TX 
■jnx TwK is translated by i\ ti)ou) by dv t\cu > ; and 
Psa. Ii, 3, where, and in other places, has nearly 
the meaning of to pity and commiserate. *jn 

stands for a gift of free love in Psa. lxxxiv, 12 ; Prov. 

iii, 34. A merit or pleasing quality in the object is 
neither excluded nor necessarily implied in Psa. lxvii, 
2, and elsewhere. But some exciting cause of the fa- 
vor is supposed in Dent, xxviii, 50; 2 Kings xiii, 23; 
Job xix, 21 {Have pity on me)', Psa. cxxiii, 6; Prov. 
xiv, 35; xix, 17 (He that hath pity on the poor); xxi, 
10; Isa. xxx, 18, 10; xxxiii, 2; Lam. iv, 16; Amos 
v, 15; Mai. i, 9. But the best illustration of the He- 
brew idea of ‘grace’ will be derived from observing 
that “i.iHrn, the form of which implies to make one's 
self an object of grace , means not to deserve , but to pray ; 
and a^sisnn are not merits , but supplications ; the hu- 
mility and abject condition of the suppliant is thus the 
exciting cause of the favor (1 Kings viii, 33, 47, 59 ; 
ix, 3; 2 Cliron. vi, 24, 37 ; Job ix, 15; xix, 16; Esth. 

iv, 8). mnri is sometimes prayer and sometimes the 
favor gained by it.” The word grace occurs 128 times 
in the New Test. (Crudcn). Wilson presents all these 
passages in a tabular form, with explanations, and re- 
marks that a comparison of them will show that “there 
is not one text in which the word grace occurs in any 
connection with either of the sacraments.” See Sac- j 

RAM ENTS. 

II. Theological. — The word “grace” is the hinge of ! 
three great theological controversies : (1) that of the i 
nature of depravity and regeneration, between the or- 1 
thodox doctrine of the Church and Pelagianism; (2) 
that of the relation between grace and free will, be- 
tween the Calvinists and the Arminians; (3) that of I 
means {media) of grace, between the Romanists and 
Puseyites on the one hand and Protestants on the 1 
other. For the treatment of the first, see Pelagian- 
ism ; on the second, see Arminianism; Election; 
Predestination; Will. On the third, sec Sacra- 
ments. 

Grace, Letters of, gratia, gratiosa rescripta , is 
the name given to particular rescripts, by which the 
pope sometimes grants especial privileges, indulgences, 
exemptions, etc. to all who have participated in extra- 
ordinary processions ; when a prebend or the reversion 
of nn office is the reward, then the letter of grace con- 
stitutes a gratia exspectativa (see Exfectantije). For 
the canon law on the subject, see Wctzer u. Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. 


Grace, Means of. See Means of Grace ; Sac- 
raments. 

Grace at meals, a short prayer at table, implor- 
ing the divine blessing, and expressing thanks to God 
for the food he has provided. The propriety of such 
an act is evident both from the scriptural injunction (1 
Cor. x, 31) and from the example of our Lord (Mark 
viii, 6, 7). 

Gradmontains. See Grandmontains. 

Gradual, an anthem, psalm, or part of a psalm 
chanted in the mass between the epistle and the gos- 
pel. So called because the chanter stood on the pulpit 
steps. The name is also given to the book containing 
the psalms chanted at mass, which was called gradate , 
or graduate. — Palmer, Orig. Liturg . ii, 46 ; Procter, On 
Common Prayer , p. 8, 317. 

Graduate, one who has' obtained a degree in a 
university: the name is usually given to those who 
have obtained merely the lowest degree, that of A.B. 
Sec Degrees. 

Graecia. See Grecia. 

Graeffe, Joiiann Friedrich Christoph, a Ger- 
man philosophical and theological writer, was born at 
Gottingen Feb. 15, 1754. He studied in the university 
of that city, became pastor of Obernjesa in 1784, and in 
1792 became pastor of a parish and professor of cate- 
ehetics and of philosophy at Gottingen. He died at 
Gottingen Oct. 27, 1816. He wrote several works on 
philosophy and theology, all more or less on the sys- 
tem of Kant. Among them are Vollstandiges Lehrbuch 
d. allgemeinen Katechetik nach Kantischen Grundsatzen 
(Gott. 1795-1799, 3 vols. 8vo) : — Grundsdtze d. allgem. 
Katech. nach Kantisch. Grundsatzen (Gott. 1799) : — De 
Miraculorum Natura , philosophia principiis non contra - 
dicente (llelmstadt, 1797) : — Commentar vher eine der 
schiversten Stellen in Kants metaphysisehfn Anfangs- 
grunden d. Katuncisscnscha ft (Celle, 1798) : — Die Pas - 
toraltheologie nach ihrem ganzen Umfange (Celle, 1803, 
2 vols.).— See Beyer, A llg. Mag. fur Predig. vol. xii; 
Doering, Gel. Theol. i, 525; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, xxi, 584. 

Graft {iyKerrpiZur, to prick in or spur on, Wisd. 
xvi, 11 ; hence to insert by an incision, Rom. xi, 23, 
A .V. “graft' in”), the process of inoculating fruit-trees, 
often resorted to in order to preserve the quality of the 
fruit; by taking shoots or buds from approved trees 
and inserting them on others, where, with proper pre- 
cautions, they continue to grow (Rom. xi, 17-24). By 
this process particular sorts of fruit may be kept from 
degenerating, which they are very apt to do when 
raised from the seed ; for the grafts, though they re- 
ceive their nourishment from the stocks, always pro- 
duce fruit of the same sort as the tree from which they 
were taken. This process is peculiarly appropriate to 
the olive-tree (Stuart, Comment, ad loc.). An insect 
of the gnat species is said to breed in the male fig-tree, 
and, being covered with the pollen of the male flowers, 
impregnates with it the stigma of the female tree. The 
flowers of the palm-tree yield fruit only on the female 
tree, when its stigmata have been fecundated by pollen 
from the male; and as it is precarious to leave this 
process to be effected b} r insects or the wind, it is com- 
monly done by manual labor. See Fig. The He- 
brews appear to have pinched off the blossoms of the 
fruit-trees during the three first years of their growth, 
in order to improve their fruitfulness (Numb, xviii, 12, 
13). See Tree. 

Grafton, Joseph, a highly respected and useful 
Baptist minister, was born at Newport, lL I., in 1757. 
Ilis father was a sailor, but abandoned the sea to set 
up the business of sail-making in Providence. Joseph, 
at the age of fourteen, began working at his father’s 
trade. He was hopefully converted in 1775, and join- 
ed the Congregational Church, which included Bap- 
tists dissatisfied with strict communion. He began 


GRAHAM 


964 


GRANARY 


preaching in 177 6. While preaching to a congrega- | 
tion of “ Separates” in Plainfield, Conn., he reconsid- 
ered his views on communion, and joined in 1787 the 
Baptist Church, lie was ordained a pastor of the First 
Baptist Church in Newton, Mass., in 1788, w’here for 
nearly fifty years he continued his studies and labors 
in a successful pastorate and in habitual activity on 
behalf of missionary and benevolent undertakings. He 
was actively engaged in founding the theological sem- 
inary at Newton, and was for many years one of its 


Grain (occurs only as a rendering of Ills, tseror’, 
a small stone or kernel, Amos ix, 9; kokkoc, a berry or 
individual seed, e. g. of mustard, Matt, xiii, 31, etc.; 
or wheat, John xii, 24; 1 Cor. xv, 37) is not used in 
the A. V. in our American collective sense of com (q. 
v.) in general, which is the signification of pi, or 
w. The Hebrew’s planted only wheat , barley, and 
spelt (comp. Isa. xxviii, 25 ; Ezek. iv, 9) ; rye and oats 
are not mentioned in the Bible (in the Talmud five 


trustees. He died in 1836. He published four sermons | ^peeies of grain are named, Mishna, Kedar. vii, 2 ; and 
and some occasional addresses. (L. E. S.) I some find even rye and oats in the 

Graham, Isabella, a woman noted for piety and ■prvrfYl of Menach. x, 7). On the other hand, some 


intelligence, one of the “saints” of modern times. She 
was born in Lanarkshire, Scotland, and was piously ed- 
ucated bv her parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Marshall. 
At seventeen she w*as admitted by Dr. Witherspoon 
(afterwards president of Princeton College) to the 
Lord’s Supper. In 1765 she v’as married to Dr. Gra- 
ham, and accompanied him to Canada, where his regi- 
ment was stationed. Her husband died at Antigua in 
1774. She returned to Scotland, and supported her 


(e. g. Michaelis) think that rice is referred to by H1VI3 
(Isa. xxviii, 25), in opposition to Rosenmullcr and Ge- 
senius. As diseases of seed-grain, paleness 

(“ mildew”), and blight (“ blasting”), are men- 

tioned. See Cereals. 

Gral or Grail. See Graal. 

Gramma, Graphe ( ypappa , ypa0>/), terms ordi- 


father and her four children by opening a school for 1 > ar j'- v us<!<1 * ho ancient Church to signify the Holy 

^ 1 . xnmiturnc 1 noxr worn rtn’. ^lrtt-rt/1 n n 


Scriptures. They were also occasionally employed as 
names of the Apostles’ Creed, perhaps because it was 
gathered entirely from Scripture ; or else because it 
was used in reference to the learning of the Creed by 
the catechumens, just as the word pci9?]jia. the Itsson , 
was used to designate the Creed, because the catechu- 
mens were bound to commit it to memory. — Valesius, 
Not. in jSocrat. i, 8; Bingham, Orig. Eccl. bk. x, cb. 
iii, § 4. 

Granary. Originally corn was kept in subterra- 
nean storehouses, and even in caverns; but in prog- 
ress of time granaries were erected, both in Egypt and 
Palestine. In the former country granaries were often 
of an extensive character. They were laid out in a 
very regular manner, and varied of course in plan as 
much as the houses, to which there is every reason to 
believe they were frequently attached, even in the 
tow’iis; and they were sometimes only separated from 
the house by an avenue of trees (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt. 
abridgment, i, 13). They had vaulted roofs, and com- 
plete arrangements for depositing and removing the 
grain. Dr. Robinson, when visiting Huj, a village not 


young ladies. In 1789 she returned to New’ York, and 
opened a seminary. In 1799 a society was instituted 
at New York for the relief of poor widows with small 
children. The original plan of the society was formed 
at the house of Mrs. Graham, and a school for the in- 
struction of orphans was opened, and taught by Mrs. 

Graham’s former pupils. Besides establishing this 
school, Mrs. Graham selected some of the widows best 
qualified for the task, and engaged them for a small 
compensation to open day schools for the instruction 
of the children in distant parts of the city. She also 
established two Sunday-schools. In 180G a society of 
ladies was organized to procure or build an asylum for 
orphan children. Mrs. Graham remained in the office 
of directress of the Widows’ Society, but felt also much 
interest in the success of the Orphan Asylum Society, 
and herself, or one of her family, taught the orphans 
daily until the friends of the institution were sufficient 
to provide a teacher and superintendent. In 1811 
some gentlemen of New York established a Magdalen 
Society, and Mrs. Graham became its president until 
her death. In 1814 she united with some ladies in 
forming a society for the promotion of in- 
dustry among the poor. For some weeks 
previous to her last illness she w’as favored 
with unusual health, and much enjoyment 
of religion. She died on the 24th of July, 

1814. Few books have been more widely 
circulated than her Life and Letters (last 
ed. London, 1838, 8vo). In America, Dr. 

Mason’s sketch of her has been w’idelv scat- 
tered by the Tract Society. See Mason, 

Life of Isabella Graham (N. York, 12mo) ; 

Bethune (Mrs.), Letters and Correspondence 
of Mrs. Graham (1838, 8vo) ; Jones, Chris- 
tian Biography , p. 189. 

Graham, Mary Jane, was born in 
London in 1803, and was so carefully edu- 
cated, and so industrious in study, that she 
acquired a knowledge of nearly all the mod- 
ern languages, as also of Latin, Greek, and Anc5ent i'|j V ptian Granary, showing how the grain was put in through the 
mathematics. In her eighteenth year she to ^ ],; n ^ c ^ f roni a polder, <7, by sacks borne upon the shoulder, c, 

fell into infidel doubts, but soon emerged and the small sliding doors, e, b, intended for taking it out. 
front them into Christian light and hope. 

To save others from a like experience, she wrote the far from Gaza, says, “ Here were several subterranean 
Test of Truth (London, 12mo, 7th ed. 1852), giving an magazines for grain, like cisterns, with a mouth like a 



account of her mental exercises, her infidelity, and her 
conversion. She also wrote a treatise on The Free- 
ness and Sovereignty of God's Grace , published after her 
death (12mo). Iler last years w ere full of suffering, blit 
she (lied in great peace- and joy at Stoke Fleming, Dev- 
onshire, in Dee. 1S30. See Bridges, Life of Mary Jane 
Graham (London, 1832, 12mo 1833, 1840, and 1853, 
12mo). 


well, such as we have seen in several villages” {Lib. 
Res. ii, 385). The peasantry in the East generally 
prefer these subterranean storehouses, not so much for 
the preservation of the corn as for the greater security 
against marauding parties, while erected barns are 
generally confined to more populous districts (Deut. 
xxviii, 8; Prov. iii, 10; Gen. xli, 35; Exod. i, 11; 1 
Chron. xxvii, 25 ; Luke xii, 18). See Garner. 


GRANDMONT 


965 


GRANT 


Grandier, Urbain, a French priest of the 17th 
century of unhappy memory. lie was educated among 
the Jesuits, entered the order, and became cure of St. 
Peter’s, and canon of the Holy Cross in Loudun. His 
preaching became very popular, and not the less so 
because of his attacks upon the vices of the clergy. 
Bitter enmities were excited, and lie was charged with 
favoring Protestantism. A manuscript essay against 
the celibacy of the clergy was found among his papeis. 
He was condemned by the bishop of Poitiers in 1G30 
to do penance, and interdicted from service as a priest 
for five years. From this penalty he was freed, on 
appeal, by the archbishop of Bordeaux. This triumph 
increased his boldness ; he returned to Loudun, and 
soon got into new trouble. In 1G32 the nuns of the 
Ursuline eonvent of Loudun became, as they said, 
possessed with devils: hysterical convulsions and all 
sorts of extravagances abounded among them. Gran- 
dier was charged with “bewitching” them, and send- 
ing “legions of devils into their bodies.” A libel on 
cardinal Kiehelien, published in 1G32, was charged 
upon Grandier, with no ground whatever. He was 
arrested and conducted to Angers Dec. 7, 1G33. The 
charges against him were sacrilege, adultery with the 
wife of a magistrate of Loudun, and with bewitching 
the Ursuline nuns. The records of the trial are very 
curious. One of the necessary signs of “ possession,” 
according to the Koniish law, is the knowledge of lan- 
guages not acquired in the ordinary way. The exor- 
cist who was appointed to test the nuns asked one of 
them in Latin “ Queni adonis ?” She answered, with 
convulsive contortions, “ Jesus Christos” One of the 
judges could not help remarking, “This devil, at least, 
does not know syntax.” The trial lasted a long time, 
and ended in the condemnation of Grandier, Avho was 
burnt alive Aug. 18, 1G34. But the devils still kept 
possession of the nuns; it was not till Nov. 5, 1G35, 
that u Leviathan” was dislodged from the head of the 
superior of the convent; and “Behemoth,” the stron- 
gest of all the daemons, stubbornly kept his place till 
Aug. 15, 1G37. The affair, of course, caused immense 
seandal, and a small library of pamphlets and books 
was written upon the subject. Alfred de Vigny re- 
counts the story of Grandier at length in his Cinq- 
Mars. A similar trial took place in 1G47 with regard 
to certain cases of possession (or of crime) in the con- 
vent of Louviers. See Michelet, Louis Quatorze, p. 
455 sq. ; Journal des Savans, Mai, 1G89 ; Audin, Hist, 
des Diables de Loudun (Amst. 1G93, 12mo) ; Bayle, Die - 
tionnaire; Hoefer, Nouv . Biog. Generate , xxi, G44 sq. 

Grandmont or Grammout, Order of. This 
religions order was founded by Stephen of Thiers, 
who in 107G withdrew to the mountains of Muret, 
near Limoges, France, to lead an ascetic life. He 
wore a penitent’s shirt made of meshes of steel, and 
slept in a bed made of boards in the shape of a cof- 
fin. 11 is extravagant asceticism found many imita- 
tors, who joined him in his retreat. Unwilling to 
take the title of prior or of abbot, he only called him- 
self their corrector. To avert the evils which had 
ruined so many other monkish orders, he required 
his followers to make vows of poverty as well as of 
obedience and humility; and would not even permit 
them to possess a church or a piece of land. Greg- 1 
ory VII, however, recognised the order only on the 
express condition of its submitting to the rule of Ben- 
edict. It is evident, however, that the founder had 
more in view than a mere return to the original strict- 
ness of the rules. St. Stephen said to his disciples, I 
“ When yon are asked to what order you belong, ; 
answer, to Christianity, which is the mother and the 
model of all the other orders.” Two cardinals who 
were going to France as nuncios went to visit Stephen 
in his retreat, and while there happened to ask him 
whether he considered himself a canon, a monk, or a 
hermit. “I am none of these,” answered Stephen. 
Being pressed to define more clearly his position and I 


that of his followers, he said, “We are poor sinners 
whom God has mercifully called to the wilderness to 
do penance; and the pope, in compliance with our re- 
quest, has himself appointed the duties we fulfil here. 
We are too imperfect and too weak to emulate the ex- 
ample of the saint hermits who were so absorbed in 
their divine contemplations as to make them forget 
the natural wants of the body. You see, besides, that 
we do not wear the habit either of canons or of monk* ; 
and we do not desire to be called either, as we are far 
from having the merits of the one or the sanctity of 
the others.” After the death of their founder (1124) 
the order withdrew to the wilderness of Grandmont, 
near Muret, whence they derive their name. Stephen 
had given them no written code of rules; they were 
transmitted verbally from one to another, until .Ste- 
phen of Lisiac, fourth prior of Grandmont, caused to 
be collected and written all that could be ascertained 
of the words and acts of their founder. He even rep- 
resents himself in several instances as the author of 
the rules. The order of the Grandmontains spread 
only in France. In 1170 there were sixty convents 
following their rule, and so great was the respect they 
had gained that they were generally known under the 
name of Good Men (boni homines). The relaxations 
which were subsequently introduced in the observance 
of their rules are to be attributed to the popes. The 
later history of the order is chiefly a record of quarrels 
and contentions. It was extinguished in the time of 
the French Revolution. — Joseph Felir, A V genuine Ge- 
schiehte d. Monchsordcn ; Herzog, Beal-Knryklop. v, 315 ; 
Butler, Lives of the Saints, Feb. 8. (A. J. S.) 

Grange, a farming establishment, especially such 
as belonged to ancient monasteries. Most monasteries 
had farm-houses on their estates, to which were attached 
chapels, as well as barns and other ofliees. Many of 
these buildings, as well as the chapels, were built in 
fine architectural taste. (G. F. C.) 

Grant, Asaliel, M.D., an American missionary, 
was born in Marshall, N. Y., August 17, 1807. He 
early commenced the study of medicine, and at the 
age of twenty he married and settled in Braintrim, on 
the Susquehanna ; but, losing his wife four years after, 
he removed to Utica, where he acquired a large and 
lucrative practice as a physician. The meeting of the 
American board at this place in 1834 wrought an en- 
tire change in his destiny. His attention was strongly 
directed to foreign missions, and, after carefully consid- 
ering the subject, he made an offer of his services to 
Dr. Anderson. Having expressed a preference for the 
mission contemplated among the Nestorians, he was 
directed to join Dr. Perkins, who was already on his 
way to Persia. Accompanied by his second wife, he 
sailed from Boston May 11, 1835, and on the 27th of 
Oetolier they arrived at Oroomiah, their future home. 
“The district of Oroomiah is in the western part of 
Azerbijan, the ancient Atropatane, and forms the fron- 
tier line of Persia in the direction of the Turkish cm-' 
pire. The scenery is unrivalled even beneath a Per- 
sian sky.” To the missionary the scene was endeared 
by the most sacred associations. “ In the city of Oroo- 
miah, and amid the three hundred villages of the plain, 
there still lingered the scattered remnant of a once il- 
lustrious church — a church which had disputed with 
Koine herself the spiritual dominion of half the world.” 
See Nestorians. When they were first visited by 
American missionaries, the vast jurisdiction which had 
once comprehended twenty-five metropolitan provinces 
had shrunk to a petty sect, hardly able to maintain it- 
self against Mohammedan oppression. The checkered 
history of the Nestorians had made a deep impression 
on the mind of Dr. Grant; and being, moreover, buoy- 
ed up with the belief that the Nestorians were treas- 
ured up for final restoration as remnants of the lost 
tribes of Israel, be entered upon his work with the ut- 
most zeal. Dr. Perkins was already in the field, and 


GRANT 


9G6 


GRAPE 


Mr. Merrick bad joined bim at Constantinople. To- 1 
getlier tbev commenced the work of establishing the [ 
mission. Dr. Grant’s character as a physician secured 
the favor of the Persian governor, and the Nestorian 
bishops and priests gave him fi hearty welcome. A 
school was at once commenced, and the work soon 
extended in every direction. (For details, sec Nesto- j 
liiANs.) In 1830 Dr. Grant visited the almost inac- 
cessible region in which the Nestorian patriarch, Mar 
Shimon, resided. On the sides of the rugged hills of 
Koordistan, and within their deep ravines, dwelt the 
“Waldenses of the East — the Protestants of Asia.” 
Among those hills were thousands who had preserved, 
with few corruptions, an apostolic faith. The difficul- 
ties in the way of missionary labor among them were 
numerous and formidable; but Mr. Grant was not to 
be deterred, and finally received an invitation from 
the patriarch, -with the promise of a guard through 
the Koord villages. His fame as a physician had been 
carried to the mountain districts, and, indeed, his pro- 
fessional character not only gave him many opportuni- 
ties of doing good, hut often saved his life. Dr. Grant 
remained among them five weeks, gaining all the in- 
formation he could, and, soon after, his wife’s death 
and the failure of his own health compelled his return 
to America (1840). In consequence of his report, the 
board decided at once to establish a mission among the 
mountains. Being appointed to that work, lie return- 
ed to his labors in April, 1841. In company with the 
patriarch, Mar Shimon, he now made an extensive tour 
through the different villages and districts (1842). A 
school was opened at Ashita in April, 1843, and Mr. 
and Mrs. Laurie took charge of the station. Soon af- 
ter, Dr. Grant ascertained that the barbarous Moham- 
med, pacha of Mosul, was forming an alliance with the 
Koord s against t lie Xestcrians, who had always before 
maintained their independence. Dr. Grant was con- 
vinced that this independence was now at an end, and 
tried to persuade them to make terms with the Turks. 
This the infatuated Nestorians refused to do; hut Dr. 
Grant did not relinquish his hopes of sustaining the 
mission ; and, though abandoned by all bis native as- 
sistants, when hostilities commenced he hastened with 
Mr. Stocking to the Persian emir, and gained the prom- 
ise of his protection. They then proceeded to the pa- 
triarch, but all their efforts were unavailing to induce 
him to unite with the Persians against the Turks and 
Koords. The infatuated patriarch had entered into cor- 
respondence with Mohammed of Mosul. The wily 
Turk deceived him with promises, and the unsuspect- 
ing Nestorians allowed the enemy to close against 
them without resistance. At last the storm burst., 
and there ensued such a massacre as has few parallels 
in history. The bodies filled the valleys and choked 
the mountain streams. All the efforts of Dr. Grant to 
avert the catastrophe were useless, though for some 
time the protection of the emir was observed, and the. 
missionary buildings were left undisturbed. Soon, 
however, they too were destroyed, and the mission- 
aries fled for their lives. After Dr. Grant reached Mo- 
sul, “all his energies were devoted to the work of re- 
lieving the wretched fugitives who crowded the city.” 
In the spring lie looked forward to a return home, but 
early in April his health began to fail, and on the 25th 
he died at Mosul. Dr. Grant published The. Xestorinns, 
or the Lout Tribes , with Sketches of Travel in Assyria, 
Armenia , Media, and Mesopotamia (Loud. 1841; Host. 
2843, 2d c*d.). — See Lothrop, Memoir of Asa he l Grant , 
M.D. (X. V. 1847, 18mo) ; Laurie, Grant and the Moun- 
tain Xestorinns (Bast. 1853; 3d ed. 185(5, 12mo); Di- 
man, in Xew Englander, August, 1853, art. vii ; New- 
corni), Cyclop, of Missions, p. 5G1 sq. 

Grant, Johnson, an English divine, and an au- 
thor of some merit, was born in Edinburg in 1773, 
and was educated at St. .John’s College, Oxford, where 
lie passed A.M. in 1805. He became rector of Bin- 
brook in 1818 ; minister of Kentish Town Chapel in 


1822 ; and died in 1845. He was a faithful, and, at the 
same time, a popular preacher. Among his writings 
are a History < f the Church of England, and of the. Sects 
which have departed from her (Loud. 1811-25, 4 vols. 
8vo) : — Lectures and Sermons in six vols. (Loud. 1821- 
43) : — Sketches in Divinity (Lond. 1840, 8vo).— Darling, 
Cyclop. Biblit graphica, i, 1302. 

Grantham, Tiiomas, an English Baptist minister 
of distinction, was horn in 1G33. lie was selected to 
deliver to Charles II the confession of faith drawn up 
by the Baptists, and also at a later period to present a 
remonstrance against persecution, botli of which were 
kindly received by the king, and redress of grievances 
promised, lie was often engaged in public disputa- 
tions, in which he displayed great logical skill, lie 
also had a long controversy with the Rev. John Ccn- 
nould, vicar of Norwich, who yet remained his friend 
through life. Among his writings is Christianismvs 
Primitivus , or the Christian Religion in its nature, cer- 
tainty, excellency , ete., vindicated (Lond. 1G78, fol.). — 
Benedict, History of the Baptists, vol. i ; Darling, Cychp. 
Bibliographica, i, 1305. 

Granvelle, Antoine Terrenot, cardinal, one of 
the most eminent politicians and diplomatists of the 
lGth century, was born at Ornans, Burgundy, Aug. 20, 
1517. lie studied law at Padua, and afterwards the- 
ology at Louvain. He became canon of Liege, then 
bishop of Arras, and was often employed by the em- 
peror Charles V in diplomatic missions. He went with 
his father to the diets of Worms and Augsburg, and 
was also present at the Council of Trent, where he de- 
fended the rights of the emperor, but vainly endeav- 
ored to array t lie Council against France. After the 
battle of Miihlberg he managed the capitulation of the 
electors John Frederick of Saxony and Philip of Hesse, 
and is said to have altered the articles so that the lat- 
ter, instead of being free from imprisonment, was ren- 
dered liable to it. lie was also very active in uphold- 
ing the Augsburg Interim. In 1550 he became coun- 
sellor of state and keeper of the great seal ; he accom- 
panied the emperor to Innsbruck, drew up the treaty 
of Passau in 1552, and in 1553 negotiated underhand 
for the marriage of queen Mary of England and Philip 
II of Spain. When Charles V resigned the crown, 
Granvelle entered the service of his son, Philip II; 
in 1559 he signed the treaty of Clmteau-Cambresis with 
France, and afterwards remained in the Netherlands 
as prime minister and counsellor of Margaret of Par- 
ma. Here he shared largely in the persecution of the 
Protestants, and was very active in strengthening Ro- 
manism. He founded 12 new bishoprics. The »Schcol 
of Kaius (q.v.) found an earnest and persevering oppo- 
nent in Granvelle. For these services he was created 
archbishop of Mechlin by the king, and cardinal by the 
pope. Being subsequently accused bv his enemies of 
too great leniency towards the Protestants, lie left the 
Netherlands in 15G1. He was finally appointed arch- 
bishop of Bcsancon in 1584, and died at Madrid Sept. 
21, 158G. Ilis letters and memoirs were collected by 
abbot Boisot ; they form 80 vols. under the title of Tre- 
sor de Granvella. in the Archives of Besancon. The 
most interesting of them are published in the Docu- 
ments inedits pour Vhist. de la France. See Gerlach, 
Philip 11 et. Grttnrella (Brussels, 1842); Motley, History 
of the Dutch Republic (N.Y. 3855, 3 vols. 8vo); Pres- 
cott, Hist, of Philip 11 (Bost. 1855, 2 vols.). (J. N. T.) 

Grape is the representative in the A.V. of the fol- 
lowing Hob. and Greek words : properly -jr, cnab ', 
grapes in the berry (Gen. xl, 10. 11 ; xlix. 11 ; Lev. xxv, 
5; Numb, vi, 3; xiii, 20, 23; Dent, xxiii, 24; xxxii, 
11, 32; Neli. xiii, 15; Isa. v, 2, 4 ; Jer. viii, 33; IIos. 
ix, 10; Amos ix, 13; “wine,” Hos. iii,l); not in the 
hunch, aratfivXij (“grapes,” Matt, vii, 1G ; Luke vi. 44 ; 
Rev. xiv, 18); improperly for 12^2, pc' ret (lit. scatter- 
ing), grapes that drop oft’ spontaneously (Lev. xix, 10); 


GRAPHEUS 


967 


GRASS 


grape - gleanings, oltloth (Jud g. viii, 2; Isa. 

xvii, G; xxiv, 13; Jer. xlix, 9; Obad.5; JSIic. vii, 1) ; 
“ tender grape,” “n^y, semadar ])rob. a vine-blossom 
(Cant, ii, 13, 15; vii, 12) ; unripe grape, “lOSj&e'ser (Job 
xv, 33), and sour grape , *103, bo ser (Isa. xviii, 5 ; Jer. 
xxxi, 29, 30; Ezek. xviii, 2); wild grapes , C’wXa, 
bemhim' [see Cockle], a worthless species (French 
lambrusques , so Jerome and Jarchi) ; not poisonous 
(Gesenius, in his Comment, on Isa.- i, 230 ; ii, 3G4, lias 
shown that the common sense of aconitim or wolfs- 
bane , monk's-hood , rests upon an error of Celsus, I lie- 
robot. ii, 199), Isa. v, 2, 4. See Raisins; Kernels; 
Bitter. 

In more than one passage of Scripture grapes are 
used in a figurative sense, as in Rev. xiv, IS : “Gather 
the clusters of the vine of the earth ; for her grapes are 
fully ripe;” i. e. the appointed time for the execution 
of divine vengeance has come, and the iniquities of 
the inhabitants of the earth have made them fully ripe 
for destruction. In JNIic. vii, 1, the figure is well ex- 
pressed by Neweome : ‘ 1 As thp early fig of excellent fla- 
vor cannot be found in the advanced season of the sum- 
mer, or the choice cluster of grapes after vintage, so nei- 
ther can the good and upright man be discovered by dil- 
igent searching in Israel.” So in Jer. vi. 9, an address 
to the Chaldasans, exhorting them to return and pick 
up those few inhabitants that were left before, like the 
grape-gleanings, and to carry them also into captivity. 
The Chaldaeans did so, as may be seen (lii, 28, 29, 30). 
In Jer. xlix, 9, the meaning is, that when the enemy 
came to spoil they should meet with no interruption, 



Palestine Grapes (of natural size). 


but should glean quite clean, and leave nothing behind 
through haste. (See Blayney.) Ezek. xviii, 2 The 
fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s 
teeth are set on edge;” a proverbial expression, ex- 
plained by the Chaldee, “The fathers have sinned, 
and the sons are smitten.” In the second command- 
ment it is expressly declared that the children should 
be punished in this life for the idolatry of the fathers. 
In the destruction by the Babylonians the good were 
to escape (Ezek. vi, 4, 5) ; but they were only to deliv- 
er themselves (xiv, 14, 20, 21). Whenever the chil- 
dren had suffered temporal evils for the idolatry of 
their fathers, they had justly incurred a punishment 
solemnly denounced. With respect to the impending 
calamity from Nebuchadnezzar, God’s purpose was to 
observe another rule of conduct (Neweome). See 
Vine. 

Grapheus, Cornelius, was born in 1482 at Aalst, 
in Flanders. lie was secretary of the city of Antwerp, 
and in 1520 published a translation of Goch’s De libcr- 
tate Christiana, with a Preface, in which he severely 
censured the condition of the Roman Catholic Church. 


He was consequently arrested (1521), imprisoned at 
Brussels, compelled to recant, and deposed from his of- 
fice. The later years of his life he spent in literary re- 
tirement at Antwerp, sympathizing with reformatory 
movements, without, however, daring to be their avow- 
ed champion. He died at Antwerp Dec. 19, 1558. — 
Herzog, Iteul-Encykl . xix, 577. (A. J. S.) 

Grass is the somewhat indistinct rendering in the 
Engl. Vers, of several Ileb. terms: 

1. It is the ordinary rendering of the Hebrew word 

! c h dsir' , which signifies properly an inclosed 

spot, from the root “!5n, to inclose; but this root also 
i has the second meaning to flourish, and hence the 
| noun frequently signifies “fodder,” “food of cattle.” 

It designates ripe grass fit for mowing and for feed, 

| and in this sense it occurs in 1 Kings xviii, 5; Job xl, 

| 5; Psa. civ, 14; Isa. xv, G, etc. As the herbage rap- 
idly fades under the parching heat of the sun of Pales- 
tine, it has afforded to the sacred writers an image of 
| the fleeting nature of human fortunes (Job viii, 12; 

Psa. xxxvii, 2), and also of the brevity of human life 
] (Isa. xl, G, 7 ; Tsa. xc, 5). The Sept, renders “PISH 
by iSorcii’tj and 7ro«, but most frequently by yoprof, a 
word which in Greek has passed through the very 
same modifications of meaning as its Hebrew repre- 
sentative : \6 prog^gramen, “fodder,” is properly a 
court or inclosed space for cattle to feed in (Homer, II. 
xi, 774), and then any feeding-place, whether inclosed 
or not (Eurip. Iph. T. 134, yoprot evvevvpoi). Gesenius 
questions whether '"Plain, yoproc, and the Sansc. ha - 
rit= green, may not be traceable to the same root. See 
Leek. 

In the N. T., wherever the word grass occurs, it is 
the representative of the Greek \6prog. The dry 
stalks of grass, etc. were often used as fuel for the 
oven (.Matt, vi, 30 ; xiii,30 ; Luke xii, 28). See Fuel. 

2. The next most usual, and, indeed, more appropri- 
ate word, is X wit, dd she, green grass ^ from the root 

to germinate. This is the word rendered grass in Gen. 
i, 11, 12, where it is distinguished from e' seb, the 

latter signifying herbs suitable for human food, while 
the former is herbage for cattle. Gesenius says it is 
used chiefly concerning grass, which has no seed (at 
least none obvious to general observers), and the small- 
er weeds which spring up spontaneously from the soil. 
It properly signifies the first shoots from the earth, 
tender grass, j'oung herbage, as clothing the meadows, 
and as affording the choice food of beasts (Gen. i, 11 ; 
Isa.lxvi,14; Dent, xxxii, 2 ; 2 Sam. xxiii, 4 ; Job vi, 
5 ; Psa. xxxvii, 2, etc.). The sickly and forced blades 
of grass which spring up on the flat plastered roofs of 
houses in the East are used as an emblem of speedy 
destruction, because they are small and weak, and, be- 
ing in an elevated part, with little earth, exposed to 
the scorching rays of the sun, they soon wither away 
(2 Kings xix, 2G ; Psa. cxxix, G; Isa. xxxvii, 27). 
(See Hackett’s Illustra. of Scrip, p. 125.) The Sept, 
renders it by y\o;/, ns well as by ^oprog, ( Sordini , and 
Trow. In Dan. iv, 15, ~0, the corresponding Chaldee 
XP}, de'the, is used. See Herb. 

In Jer. 1, 11, the A. V. renders X'jP as the 

heifer at grass, and the Sept. cl>£ fioicia iv ftordvy. It 
should be “as the heifer treading out corn” (comp. 
Hos. x, 11). X'J-I, dashci , the word here employed, 
comes from to triturate , and has been confounded 
with the preceding term. See Fodder. 

3. 3UJP, e'seb, is used in I)eut., in the Psalms, and 
in the Prophets, and as distinguished from the forego- 
ing XwjlJ, signifies herbs for human food (Gen. i, 30; 
Psa. civ, 14), hut also fodder for cattle (Deut. xi, 15; 
Jer. xiv, G). It is the grass of the field (Gen. ii, 5; 
Exod. ix, 22) and of the mountain (Isa. xlii, 15; Prov. 
xxvii, 25). See Hay. 


GRASS 


0G8 


GRATTAN 


4. In Numb, xxii, 4, where mention is made of the 
ox licking up the grass of the field, the Ilcb. word is 
ye rek, which elsewhere is rendered yrten when 
followed ly or nr?, as in Gen. i, 30, and Psa. 
xxxvii, 2. It answers to the German das Grime, and 
comes from the root p^, to flourish like grass. — Smith, 
s. v. See Green. 

ITpb, le'kesh (from ITpb, to be late ripe), in the “af- 
ter-math” or “ rowen” that springs up on meadows | 
after being once mown (“latter growth,” Amos vii, 
1). See Meadow. 

“Mown grass” is TS, gez, a mowing or mown mead- 
ow (Psa. lxxii, G ; Amos vii, 1). See Mother. 

Dry grass or self-made hay is called ri'H, chash- 
ash', “chaff” (Isa. v, 24; xxxiii, 11). See Stubble. 

As in Matt, vi, 30, where a lily is called “the grass 
of the field,” it is evident that, like the Latin gramen 
and the English “grass,” the Hebrew equivalent had 
a very extensive range, and was not restricted to the 
“grasses” ( Graminece ) of the botanist. These are 
themselves a very ample order, ranging from diminu- 
tive plants like our own mouse-ear barley to the bam- 
boo which shoots up to a height of fifty or sixty feet in 
an Indian jungle, and including productions as vari- 
ous as the Anmdo donax of Southern Europe, which 
furnishes the fisherman with his rod and the weaver 
with his “reed,” the cereals which supply to all man- 
kind the staff of life, and the sugar-cane which, on the 
table of the humblest artisan in Europe or America, 
places luxuries unknown to a Roman emperor. See 
Reed. 

Rut w T hcn we speak of grass we are usually thinking 
of the narrow blades, so thickset and tender, which 
form the sward on a meadow, or the matchless turf on 
an English lawn. Or, if w r e are thinking of a separate 
plant, it is a hollow gloss} 1- stem rising up from the 
midst of these spiry blades, and throwing out similar 
leaves from its joints, till it ends in blossoming spike- 
lets, loose or more compact, which, when the flowering 
time is over, show the taper corn-like seeds inclosed in 
the chaffy glumes, and which w r e destine as food for 
the cattle, even as w-e reserve the fruit of the cereal 
grasses as food for ourselves. The fescues, darnels, 
and poas, which clothe the meadows and build up the 
hay-ricks at home, are pigmies, however, when com- 
pared with the grass “which grows for the cattle” of 
other lands; with the “ tussac,” for instance, whose 
enormous tufts form an inexhaustible supply to the 
herds both amphibious and terrestrial of the Falkland 
Isles, and the beautiful pampas-grass, under which the 
huntsman can ride and see high overhead its “plume 
of silvery feathers.” 

The imperfect enumeration which we possess of 
grasses native to Palestine is of less importance, as the 
scriptural allusions may very w r ell be understood w ith- 
out being able to identify the species. The psalmist 
wishes (Psa. cxxix, G) that the haters of Zion may he 
“ as the grass upon the house-tops, which withercth 
afore it growetli up,” or, as it should be rendered, 
“ before it is plucked up” (see Hengstenberg, Walford, 
etc.); and Isaiah (xxxvii, 27) speaks of vanquished 
populations “as the grass of the field, as the grass on 
the house-tops, blasted before it be grown up.” On 
the fiat roofs at the present day any one may see grass 
which has sprung up in the rainy season, withered 
away by the first -weeks of sunshine. “WliQn 1 first 
came to reside in Jerusalem,” says Dr. Thomson, “my 
house was connected with an ancient church, the roof 
of which w r as covered with a thick coat of grass. This 
being in the w r ay of a man employed to repair my 
house, he actuallj 1, set fire to it and burned it off; and 
I have seen others do the same thing without the 
slightest hesitation. Nor is there any danger; for it 
W'ould require a large expense for fuel sufficient to 
bum the present city of Jerusalem” {Land and Book, 


ii, 574). Indeed nearer home we may often see grass 
and even oats springing up on the roof of a thatched 
cottage, and a goat peradventure nibbling the herbage 
before it is withered. The dew “distilling” on the 
grass, and the rain descending on the mown grass, or 
rather on the grass which has been close-hrow-sed by 
the cattle, furnish the sacred poetry with a freejuent 
and excpiisite image (Deut. xxxii, 2; Psa. lxxii, G; 
Prow xix, 12 ; Micah v, 7) ; and still more frequently 
does that emblem occur in which our fleeting genera- 
tions arc compared to the grass “which in the morn- 
ing groweth up, and w hich in the evening is cut down 
and w-ithereth” (Psa. xc, G ; xxxvii, 2 ; xcii, 7 ; cii, 11 ; 
ciii, 15; Isa. xl, G; James i, 10; 1 Pet. i, 24). — Fair- 
bairn, s. v. 

Grasshopper is the rendering in certain passages 
of the Auth. Vers, of three l leb. words : arbeh' 

(Judg. vi, 5 ; vii, 12 ; Job xxxix, 20; Jer. xlvi, 2G), a 
locust (as elsewhere rendered), sometimes a particular 
species, the migratory kind (Lev. xi, 22; Joel i, 4); 
'2 m \Z,gob (Amos vii, 1 ; Nah. iii, 17), a locust in general ; 

chagab' (Lev. xi, 22; Num. xiii, 33; Eccles. xii, 
5; Isa. xi, 22), a locust (2 Chron. vii, 13), winged and 
edible (Lev. xl, 22), and therefore evidently not a 
proper grasshopper. See Locust. In Numb, xiii, 33 ; 
Isa. xl, 22, this insect is used to express comparative 
insignificance. In Eecl. xii, 5 reference is probably 
made to that degree of weakness and infirmity in old 
age w hich makes the 
weight, or even the 
chirping of this in- ~ 
sect, to be burden- ■ 
some. For the cu- j 
rious illustration of I 
this passage from j 
the fable of Titho- \ 
nius, see Kitto’s j 
Daily Bible Illust . | 
ad loc. See Old I 
Age. | 

The true grass- ; 
hopper (Gryllus gros- \ 
sits') belongs to a j 
tribe of neuropter- 
ous insects styled 
Gryllid®, and it ap- 
pears from modern 
travellers that it is 
not unknow-n in Pal- 
estine. Its habits greatly resemble those of its con- 
gener, the Oriental locust : it has mandibles or jaws 
peculiarly fitted for devouring green vegetables, and 
in many parts even of America its ravages often be- 
come quite formidable. See Insect. 

Grate (’“Z-^, mikbar , something twined, from 
“C2, to braid; Sept. ia\dna), a network of brass for 
the^bottom of the great altar of sacrifice (Exod. xxvii, 
4; xxxv, 1G; xxxviii, 4. 5, 30; xxxix, 39), placed 
horizontally in the fire-1 >cd so as to allow the cinders, 

, ashes, etc. to pass through, and a draught of air to sup- 
ply the fire upon it. Sec Altar. 

Gratise. See Grace. 

Gratian or Gratianus, an Italian Benedictine 
and distinguished canonist, w-ns horn towards the close 
of the 31th century. He appears to have first entered 
the convent of Classe, near Ravenna, from whence he 
removed to that of St. Felix do Bologna, where he 
wrote his Decretum. According to his contemporary, 
Robert of Mont St. Michel, he became subsequently 
bishop of Tbilisi, w hich fact is also asserted by an Ital- 
ian biographer in the 14tli century. The latter adds 
that Gratian, having sent his Decretum to the pope l>v 
a priest, the latter claimed to he the author of it, 1 ut 
the fraud having beeu detected, the pope indemnified 



Antique representation of an Old Man 
under the form of a Grasshopper, 
presenting an offering at the shrine 
of Venus. From the Florentine col- 
lection of Gems. 


GRATIAN 


960 


GRAUL 


Gratian by creating him bishop of Chiusi. Many oth- | 
ers, before Gratian, had attempted to make a compre- 
hensive collection of the canons issued by the popes 
and councils. See Canons and Decretals, Col- 
lections of. Making special use of the works of 
13 orchard of Worms and of Anselm of Lucca, Gratian 
classified the canons and commented on them. He 
called his works Discordantia concordaniia Canonum, 
bnt his contemporaries, and especially Alexander III, 
called it Decreta, which was afterwards changed into 
Decretum. The Decretum is composed of three parts, 
called in Gratian ’s time De Ministeriis, De Xegoliis , and 
De Sacramentis , and subsequently Distinctiones, Causce, \ 
and De Consecratione . The first part was divided into 
101 distinctiones by Paucapalea, disciple of Gratian. 
The first 20 treat on the subjects and authority of law, 
the remaining 71 on the details of canonical legislation 
as regards the appointment, ordination, etc. of the 
clergy. The second part, divided by Gratian himself 
into <36 causce, treats of the practical application of the 
law, and is the distinguishing feature of the Decretum . 
In the Causa , Gratian was the first to apply the scho- 
lastic method to canon law. The third part, treating 
chiefly on some points of liturgy, was divided into five | 
distinctiones by Paucapalea. Gratian’s plan, as can be 
seen, was very inferior; yet the Decretum was vastly 
superior to the collections which preceded it. “Fleu- 
rv, in his Troisi'eme Disconrs sur l' Hist. Ecclesiastique , l 
says that Gratia nus, besides so consolidating the au- 
thority of the false decretals that for three centuries 
after no other canons were referred to but those of his 
collection, went even further in extending the authori- 
ty of the pope by maintaining that he was not himself 
subject to the canons; an arbitrary assertion destitute 
of evidence, but which contributed to establish in the 
Latin, or Western Church, a confused notion that the 
authority of the pope was without bounds. Gratian us t 
also maintained, upon apocryphal or mutilated author- 
ity, that clergymen arc not subject to secular jurisdic- 
tion. This principle is illustrated in a celebrated an- 
swer of Innocent III to the Eastern emperor, in which 
that pope contends that the temporal sovereign has the 
jurisdiction of the sword over those who bear a sword, 
that is to say, over laymen only, as no one can be the 
judge of the servants of another. The grosser errors 
and the apocrypha of the Decretum were corrected and 
expurgated in the improved edition executed by order 
of Gregory XIII, 1582; but still many assertions favor- 
able to the absolute supremacy, as well as to the tem- 
poral authority of the popes, were allowed to remain in 
it, as being sanctioned by ages, though contrary to the 
ancient discipline of the Church. These are what are 
styled in France, and other countries north of the Alps, 
the ultramontane doctrines of the Roman Curia.” The 
true reason of its success was its adoption by the school 
of Bologna as the most comprehensive and systemat- 
ic collection, and its subsequent adoption in all the : 
schools. This was bnt right, for Gratian is the real 
author of the science of canon law, which before him 
was only incidentally taught in the theological schools. 
The Decretum soon found hosts of commentators. To- 
wards the end of the Middle Ages there were as many > 
glosses and commentaries on the Decretum as on the 
Pandects , yet no one had ever thought of verifying the 
text of Gratian in the original sources from whence 
they were taken until Bins IV instituted the Correc- 
tors Romani for that purpose. The work was com- 
pleted in 1580, under Gregory XI 1 1 , and two years after 
the corrected Decretum was published at Rome (fol.) as 
the first part of the Corpus Juris canonici. It is to be 
found in all the editions of the latter, and has also been 
often printed separately, sometimes with glosses and 
sometimes without. The first edit, is Strasburg, 1471, 
fol. There have been seventy-six others in the space 
of a century and a half. The best text is in Richter's | 
Corpus Juris canonici (Lpz. 1833-89, 4to). Among the 
commentaries we remark those of Joan, a Turrecre- i 


mata, Commcntarii super toto Decreto (Lyons, 1519 and 
1520, 3 vols. fol. ; Venice, 1578, 4 vols. fol.); Bellemera, 
Remissarius , seu commentarii in Gratiani Decretum (Ly- 
ons, 1550, 3 vols fol. 4 ; Berardus, Gratiani Canones gen- 
uini ab apocryphis discreti , corrupt i, ad emendutiorem 
codicum Jidem exact!, dijficiliores commoda interpreter 
tione illustrate (Turin, 1752, 4 vols. 4to). See Sarti, 
De claris A rchigymnasii Boniensis Professoribus , i, 247 ; 
J. A. Riegger, De Gratiano auctore Decreti (Riegger’s 
Opuscula academical) and De Gratiani Collections Ca- 
nonum illiusque methodo ac mendis ; Florens, Disserta - 
tio de methodo atque auctoritate Collect ionis Gratiani- J. 
B. Bolnner, De varia Decreti Gratiani fortuna (Bbh- 
mer’s Corpus Juris canon.) ; Spittler, Beitriige z. Ge.~ 
schiehte Grattans (Magazin f Kirchenrecht, Lpz. 1778) ; 
Ant. Augustinus, De emendations Gratiani Dudogornm 
libri duo; Lc Plat, De spuriis in Gratiano canonibus , 
A. L. Richter, Beitriige z. Kenntniss d. Quellen d. canoni - 
schen Rechts ; A. Theiner, Disquisitiones criticcc in prai- 
cipnas canonum el decretalium collectiones ; Philipps, Le 
Droit cunonique dans ses sources. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, xxi, 724 sq. See Canons. 

Gratianus, emperor of Rome, son of Vaientinian 
I, was born in 359, and on tlie death of his father, 
A.D. 875, succeeded to a share of the Western Empire. 
On the death of his uncle Valcns, A.D. 378, he ob- 
tained control of the whole empire; but in 379 be ap- 
pointed Theodosius his colleague, giving him the East- 
ern provinces. lie was killed A.D. 383, in a revolt in 
Gaul. Gratian was tolerant towards the various sects 
which divided Christianity, but be displayed a stem 
determination against the remains of the heathen wor- 
ship. At Rome he overthrew the altar of Victory, 
which continued to exist ; he confiscated the property 
attached to it, as well as the property belonging to the 
other priests and the Vestals. He also refused to as- 
sume the title and the insignia of Pontifex Maximus, 
a dignity till then considered as annexed to that of 
emperor. These measures gave a final blow to the 
olj worship of the empire; and although the senators, 
who for the most part were still attached to it, sent him 
a deputation, at the head of which was Symmachus, 
they could not obtain any mitigation of his decrees. — 
Engl. Cyclopedia ; Moslieim, Church Hist. cent, iv, pt. 
ii, ch. v, § 15. 

Gratus (pleasing, Graecized rpdroc), Valerius, 
procurator of dudsea from A.D. 15 to 20, being the first 
appointed by Tiberius, and the immediate predecessor 
of Pilate (Josephus, Ant. xviii, G, 5). The government 
of Gratus is chiefly remarkable for the frequent changes 
which he made in the Jewish higli-priests. He de- 
posed Ananus and substituted Ishmael, son of Fabi ; 
next Eleazar, son of Ananus ; then Simon, son of Ca- 
mithns ; and lastly Joseph Caiaphas, son-in-law of 
Ananus ( 26 . 2, 2). lie put down two formidable bands 
of robbers that infested Judaia during his procurator- 
ship, and killed with his own hand the captain of one 
of them, Simon, formerly a slave of Herod the Great 
(ib. xvii, 10, G, 7 ; Bar, ii, 4, 2, 3). Gratus assisted 
the proconsul Quintilius Varus in quelling an insur- 
rection of the Jews (lTar, ii, 5, 2). — Smith, Diet, of 
Class. Biog. s. v. See Judaea. 

Graul, Karl,D.D., a German theologian, was horn 
Feb. 6 , 1814, at Worlitz, near Dessau. After studying 
theology at Leipzic, he was for a time tutor in an Eng- 
lish family residing in Italy. On his return lie was 
appointed teacher in a school at Dessau, and in 1844 
director of the missionary society of Dresden. During 
his management, which lasted for 18 }*ears, this socie- 
ty had an almost tenfold increase of its annual reve- 
nue, and from being a society merely of the little king- 
dom of Saxony, became a general Lutheran missionary 
society of Continental Europe. In order to give to the 
pupils of the missionary seminary an opportunity to at- 
tend the lectures of a university, Graul caused, in 1848, 
its transfer from Dresden to Leipzic. He concentrated 


GRAVE 


070 


GRAVE 


all the efforts of the Church upon the missionary work 
among the Tamuls in South I ndia, and from 1849 to 1853 
made himself a journey through Palestine and Egypt 
to India, to examine the condition and the prospects 
of the mission. While in India he devoted a special 
attention to the study of the language and literature of 
die Tamuls, as the result of which he published the Bib- 
liotheca Tamulica (Leipz. 1854-50, 3 vols.). He also 
published an account of his journey in 5 vols. ( Iieise 
tiach Ostimlien , Leipz. 1854-50). In the question of 
caste, Graul was opposed to the practice of all the Eng- 
lish and American missionary societies, and in favor 
of tolerating the differences of caste among the Chris- 
tian converts. lie published, in defense of his views, 
in 185*2, a pamphlet in the English language at Madras, 
and in 18G1 another ill the German language at Leip- 
zic {Die Stellung der evangel. -lather. Mission in Leipzig 
zur ostind . Kmtenfrage , 1801). He resigned his place j 
as director of the missionary seminary at Leipzic, and 
in 180*2 went to Erlangen with a view of connecting 
himself with the university, but a serious sickness pre- 
vented him from carrying out this design. He died 
Nov. 10, 1801. Of the numerous works of Graul. that 
which had the greatest circulation w*as a small treatise 
on the differences of doctrine between the Christian de- 
nominations {Die Unterseheidnngsleliren der verschiede- 
7 len kirchl. Bekenntnisse , Lpz. 1845; revised by Harnack, 
1807), in which he shows an extreme unfairness in his 
remarks on Pietists and Methodists. The most note- 
worthy among his other works is one on Ireweus ( Die 
christ l. Kirehe an der Selncette des iren. Zeit alters, Lpz. 
1800). — I lerzog, Re al-Eneyklop . xix, 578. (A. J. S.) 

Grave (properly ke'ber , a sepulchre; Greek 

gvi'gta or pvtjptiov, a tomb , as a monument [see Buri- 
al]) is also in some passages of the common vers, the 
rendering of P'X'J, sheol', adijg, hades [see Sheol; 
Hades] ; once of riTJ, shach'ath (Job xxxiii, 22), the 
pit or open sepulchre, as elsewhere rendered ; and 
once erroneously of bed' , prayer (Job xxx, 24). 

See Tomb. 

Sepulchres among the ancient Hebrews were, as still 
among all Orientals (Schweigger, Reisen , p. 100; Shaw, 
Travels , p. 10*2; llassclquist, p. 35 sq.), outside of cit- 
ies (see Lightfoot, llor. Jftb. p. 107 ; according to the 
Talmud, Baba Bat hr a, ii, 0, at least fifty yards distant 
from the city walls), in the open field (Luke vii, 12 ; 
John xi, 30; compare Cicero, Leg. ii, 23; adfamil. iv, 
12, 0; Plutarch, A rat. 53; Theocr. vii, 10; Homer, II. 
vii, 435 sq. ; Michael is, j/o.s\ Reeht. iv, 307). Only 
kings (1 Kings ii, 10; xvi, 0, 28 ; 2 Kings x, 35; xiii, 
0: 2 Chron. xvi, 14; xxviii, 27) and prophets (1 Sam. 
xxv, 1 ; xxviii, 3) W'cre allowed to be buried within 
cities {Warmer, Obs. ii, 120 sq. ; compare Tlmevd. v, 11 ; 
Potter, C,r. Ant. ii, 4*27 sq. ; when it is said that any 
one was interred in his house [1 Kings ii, 34 ; 2 Chron. 
xxxiii, *20], we must understand the grounds or envi- 
rons of the house to he meant, i. e. the garden [comp. 
Numb, xix, 10] ; it w r as otherwise among the ancient 
llomans, Isidore, Grig, x, 2). Generally the graves 
were pits or grottoes (Gen. xxiii, 17 ; xxxv, 8 ; 1 Sam. 
xxxi, 13; 2 Kings xxi, 18, 20; John xix, 41 ; comp. 
Strabo, xiv, 030; Virgil, JEn. xi, 851), shady spots 
under trees or in gardens being preferred (Eck, De se - 
pnleris in hortis , Meining. 1738 sq. ; AValeh, Observr. in 
Matt, ex inscript, p. 89); and these excavations were 
either natural, with which Palestine abounds [see 
Cave], or oftener artificial, dug for this purpose (and 
walled up; see Knobel, Jesa. p. 99), or hewn in rocks , 
(Isa. xxii, 10; 2 Chron. xvi, 14; Matt, xxvii, 00; 
John xi, 38; Luke xxiii, 53), sometimes very spacious 
and with numerous side-passages and chambers {Baba 
Bat hr a, vi, 8) ; there are also instances of graves sunk 
perpendicularly in the ground (Luke xi, 44), and such 
were occasionally situated on hills (2 Kings xxiii, 10; 
comp. Isidore, Origg. ii, 11). Not only in the case of 


kings and nobles (2 Kings ix, 28; 2 Chron. xxxii, 33; 
xxxv, 24 ; 1 Macc. ii, 70 ; ix, 19 ; xiii, 25, etc.), but in 
every good family (Gen. xxiii, 20; Judg. viii, 82; 2 
Sam. ii, 32; 1 Kings xiii, 22; Tobit xiv, 12; 1 Macc. 
ii, 70), were there hereditary vaults (it was a deep dis- 
grace to the remains of persons of distinction to be 
buried among those of the populace, Jer. xxvi, 23) ; 
and it appears the very natural desire of those dying 
abroad to repose in such family cemeteries (Gen. xlvii, 
29; 1, 5; 2 Sam. xix, 37 ; 1 Kings xiii, 22, 31 ; Neh. 

ii, 3; comp. Sophocles, Electra , 1131 sq. ; Anthol. Gr. 

iii, 25, 75; Justin, iii, 5; see Zeibich, De sepidtura in 
terra saneta a Jacobo et Joscpho expet it a, Viteb. 174*2 ; 
Sender, De patriarcharum vt in Palcest. sepelirentur dc- 
siderio , llahe, 1750; Carpzov, in Ugolini Thesaur. 
xxxiii). But whoever had not such a hereditary sep- 
ulchre wished none the less to rest in the land of his 
fathers (2 Mace, v, 10), in the sacred soil (Josephus, 
Ant. x, 4, 3). For the poor were (later) public buri- 
al-places assigned (Jer. xxvi, 23; 2 Kings xxiii, G; 
comp. Matt, xxvii, 7). As a protection chiefly against 
the carnivorous jackals (Pliny, viii, 44), the graves 
were closed with doors or large stones (Matt, xxvii, 
GO; xxviii, 2; John xi, 38); and in the month Adar 
(March), after the rainy reason {Shekal. i, 1), they 
■were (in the post-exilian period) whitewashed afresh 
{Maaser Sheni , v, 1), in order to warn the great mul- 
titudes of strangers visiting the Passover against con- 
tact (Matt, xxiii, 27 ; see Lightfoot and Schottgen, ad 
loc. ; comp. Walch, Obscrv. in Mt. ex inscr. p. 05 sq. ; 
and Iieussteuch, I)e sepidcris ealee notatis, in Ugolini 

; Thesaur. xxxiii), which caused pollution (Numb, xix, 
10; comp. Josephus, Ant. xviii, 2, 3). There are still 
many such sepulchral grottoes iu Palestine, Syria, and 

| lduma?a generally (see Poeoeke, East, ii, 70, 100, etc. ; 
Bnrckhardt, i, 220 sq. ; Bobinson, i, 78 sq. ; ii, 175 sq., 
003; iii, 317, G92). They descend sometimes vertical- 
ly, sometimes horizontally iu the earth, the former l)3 r 
steps. Within are usually found several chambers or 
apartments, of which one sometimes lies deeper than 
another. Most of them have on the side- w alls cells, six 
to seven feet long, in which the bodies are deposited. 

' Among those found at Jerusalem, for which tradition 

| assigns special names and origin, are the Sepulchres 
of the Kings (perhaps derived from 2 Chron. xxi, 20; 
xxviii, 27 ; compare Neh. iii, 10; Acts ii, 29; see Nie- 
buhr, Travels , iii, 03; Rosenmiiller, Alterth. II, ii, 2G9 
sq. ; Bobinson, i, 398 sq. ; ii, 183; compare Hottinger, 
Cippi Ihbraici , Heidelb. 1G59 [also in Ugolini Thesaur. 
xxxiii]). They consist of an anteroom and seven 
chambers, hung on the north of the city, east of the 
main road to Nablus, and seem to have belonged to 
the nobility, and not merely, if at all, to the ancient 
Jewish kings. See Jerusalem. Far more imposing 
are the sepulchres of Egypt, and especially celebrated 
by the ancients is the tomb of king Osymandyas (Diod. 
Sic. i, 47 sq.), of which the ruins are still extant (Po- 
cocke, i, 159). Above the tombs were from the earli- 
est times erected monuments (Gen. xxxv, 20, 
as often on the Phoenician grave-stones), originally of 
rough stone or earth (Job xxi, 3*2; comp. Homer, II. 
xxiii, 255 sq. ; Virgil, yEn. vi, 305), later in the form 
of splendid mausolca (1 Macc. xiii, 27 sq. ; Josephus, 
Ant. vii, 10, 3; xx, 4, 3; eomp. Pausanias, viii, 10, 3; 
see Salmasius, ad Solin. p. 851 ; Zorn, in the Xov. 
Miseell. Ups. v, 218 sq.) with various devices (? 2 Sam. 
xviii, 18). To open a grave forcibly in order to ab- 
stract the ornaments (Josephus, Ant. xv, 3, 4; xiii, 8, 
4), ’weapons (Ezek. xxxii, 27; 1 Macc. xiii, 29; Cur- 
tins, x, 1, 31), or other articles deposited with the body 
(comp. Sept. V at. at Josh, xxiv, 30; Jerome, ad Jer. 
vii; Boson mid Ier, Morgenl. iii. 10), or even the bones 
of the interred, was in all antiquity regarded as a 
shameful piece of barbarity (Jer. viii, 1 ; Baruch, ii, 
24; comp. Diod. Sic. xiii, 80; xiv, G3; see Wachtcr, 
Ueber Ehescheid. bci d. Rom. p, 209 sq. ; Ahegg, Straf- 


GRAVEL 


GRAVES 


9(1 


rechtsireis. p. 726 sq.). That the relies of the dead 
were thus pillaged for magical purposes (Apul. Meiam. 
ii, p. 38, Bip. ; Horace, Epod. xiv, 47 sq. ; Lucan, vi, 
533 ; comp. Brouckhus. ad Tibull. i, 2, 47 sq.) does not 
appear very clearly from Isa. lxv, 4. There are scrip- 
tural traces of the popular idea that graves were the 
residence of daemons (comp. Matt, viii, 28), who were 
perhaps connected with soothsaying (Acts xvi,.16); 
others, however, refer such allusions to the supersti- 
tious notions respecting offering to the manes of the 
departed (infer he, februut tones ; compare Athen. iii, 98 ; 
Macrob. Sat. i, 13, p. 263, Bip. ; Barhebr. Chron. p. 
256), or a species of necromancy practised in such spots 
(see Gregor. Nazianz. Or. in Julian, p. 91; Otho, Lex. 
R abb. p. 171). The graves of the prophets and holy 
persons were (in post-exilian times) sedulously re- 
paired and adorned (Matt, xxiii, 29 ; see Schottgen, 
Jlor. Hebr. i, 205 ; Eekhard, De cedifcatione et exorna- 
tions sepulcronan , Jena, 1746), a tribute of reverence 
(and eventually of grateful reparation, Matt, xxiii, 30 
sq.), which was not unknown likewise in Greek an- 
tiquity (Julian, Tar. Hist, xii, 7 ; Diod. Siculus, xi, 33; 
Athen. xiii, 593 ; Suetonius, Oetav. xviii ; the Greeks 
even anointed the tombs of honored men, Plutarch, 
Alex. c. 15), and still general in the East (Kampfcr, 
A mam. p. 109 sq. ; Robinson, ii, 708). See generally 
Nicolai, De sepulcris Ilebr. (L. B. 1706; also in U go- 
lino, xxxiii) ; Fuhrmann, Hist. Untersuch iib. der Be- 
grdbnisspliitze der Alten (Halle, 1800). — Winer, i, 443. 
See Sei-ulciire. 

Gravel (j^n, chatsats ', something broken of 
small; gravel-stone, Prov. xx, 17; Lam. iii, 16. In 
Psa. lxxvii,7, “thine arrows ,” is regarded by 

Fiirst as a reduplicative form from "|’n ; in Isa. xl viii, 
19, erroneously “the gravel thereof,” is un- 
doubtedly the same as in preceding, and stands 

elliptieally for “ [the issue of] its bowels sc. the 
sea’s, i. e. the fish that spawn so numerously), com- 
minuted rock, coarser than sand, but smaller than 
stones, forming a large part of what is known geo^g- 
ically as “drift” or diluvium over the surface of the 
earth. See Land. 

Graven Image (^CS, pe'sel, plur. C^DS, a 
carving). From the passage in Deut. xxvii, 15, 
“ Cursed be the man that maketh any graven or mol- 
ten image, an abomination unto the Lord, the work of 
the hands of the craftsman, and jputtetli it in a se- 
cret place; and all the people shall answer and say, 
Amen,” we may fairly infer with Michaelis, in his 
Commentaries on the Laws of Moses, that there was a 
marked distinction between idols and images, or rather 
between idolatry and image- worship, which appears to 
have prevailed from the earliest times. See Idol. 
Pesel, or graven image, seems to refer to the household 
gods ; an idol is termed eliV , and in some places 

he'bel , both words having a similar signification, 
that of “vain, null, void.” The distinction is particu- 
larly marked in Psa. xc, 7 : “Confounded be all they 
that serve graven images, that boast themselves of 
idols.” Jahn says (A rehreol. § 400), “Every nation 
and city had its own gods, which at first had acquired 
some celebrity by the worship of some particular fam- 
ily merely, but were at length worshipped by the oth- 
er families of that town or nation, yet every family 
had its separate household or tutelary god. No one 
felt himself bound to worship every god, but paid his 
honors, as he chose, to those he deemed most propi- 
tious or most powerful. But still he did not think it 
advisable wholly to neglect other gods, lest perchance, 
thinking themselves contemned by such neglect, they 
should revenge themselves by sending some evil retri- 
bution.” (See Reineceius, De non faciendo sculpiili , 
Weissenfels, 1724.) See Teraphim. 

“ There has been a good deal of discussion as to the 


extent of the prohibition contained in the second com- 
mandment; some (including early Jewish commenta- 
tors) have contended that all imitative art was forbid- 
den : against this extreme view Michaelis protests 
( Laws of Moses, art. 250), on the reasonable ground 
that certain figures were in fact made by God’s own 
command. Both in the Tabernacle and the Temple 
many objects were provided which would put under 
contribution largely the arts of carving and engrav- 
ing, e. g. the two cherubim in the holy of holies (Exod. 
xxv, 18, 20); the floral ornaments of the golden can- 
dlestick (xxv, 34); the various embroidered hangings 
of the sanctuary (eh. xxvi) ; and the brazen serpent 
(Numb, xxi, 8, 9). So again in the Temple, besides 
the cherubim, there were on the walls various figures 
of all kinds, as well as the brazen sea , as it was called, 
which rested on twelve brazen oxen. Ezekiel’s tem- 
ple, in like manner, has cherubim with the heads of 
men and lions. Even after the return from Babylon, 
when men severely interpreted the prohibition of the 
commandment, there were figures of animals on the 
golden candlestick (Reland, De Spoliis Templi J/ier. in 
Arcu Titiano ), and vines with pendent clusters on the 
roof of the second Temple, and the golden symbolic 
vine over the large gate. Not the making of images 
as works of art, but the worship of them, was excluded 
by the Decalogue. Among the Mohammedans, the 
more liberal Persians (followers of Ali) allow them- 
selves the fullest latitude, and paint and mould the 
human figure, while their stricter rivals confine their 
art to representations of trees and fruits, or inanimate 
objects; but all alike abhor all attempts to represent 
God, or even their saints (Kitto, Pictorial Bible, Deut. 
v, 8, 9). There were, however, from whatever cause, 
limitations in fact, which the artisans who ornamented 
the Tabernacle and the Temple observed. In the for- 
mer, nothing is mentioned as fabricated of iron; nor 
is skill in manipulating this metal included among the 
qualifications of the artificer Bezaleel ; while ‘in the 
Temple there is no mention made of sculptured stones 
in any part of the building. All the decorations were 
either carved in wood and then overlaid with metal, 
or wholly cast in metal. Even the famous pillars of 
Jachin and Boaz were entirely of brass’ (Kitto on 2 
Chron. iii, 6). The qualifications of the accomplished 
men who built the Tabernacle (Bezaleel and Aholiab) 
and the Temple (Hiram) are carefully indicated; to 
the former, especially Bezaleel, is attributed skill in 
‘ carving’ and ‘ sculpture’ (Exod. xxxi, 5), whereas 
the latter seems to have rather executed his decora- 
tive works by fusile processes (comp. 1 Kings vii, 14, 
15 with 46; Muller’s Ancient Art , by Leitch, p. 216; 
and De Wette’s Areha’ol. § 106)” (Kitto, s. v. Carved 
Work). See Graving. 

Graverol, Jean, a French Protestant theologian, 
was horn at Nismes, July 28, 1647 (Sept. 11, 1636, ac- 
cording to Graverol de Floghrevar). After studying 
theology at Geneva, he was appointed minister of Pra- 
del (Vivarais) in 1671. In 1672 he removed to Lyons. 
After the revocation of the edict of Nantes he went to 
Holland, remained a while in Amsterdam, and finally 
went to take charge of a French congregation in Lon- 
don. He died there in 1730, according to Menard ; in 
1718, according to Watt. He wrote De Re.ligionum Con- 
ciliatoribus (Lausanne, 1674, 12mo, under the pseiulo- 
nyme of ,T. Rolegravius) : — VEglise protesiante jusii - 
fie par VEglise romaine sur quebpies points de contro - 
vei'se (Geneva, 1682, 12mo, Anon.) : — Projet de reunion 
entre les protesian/s de la Grande-Breiagne (Loud. 1G89, 
8vo) : — Moses vindicaius adv. Th. Burnetii archicologias 
philosophicas (Amst. 1694, 12mo): — Des Points fonda- 
mentaux de la Religion chrelienne (Amst. 1697, 8vo). 
See Moreri, Diet . hist. ; Baylc, CEuvres diverges , iv, 605 
and 610; Michel Nicholas, Hist, litter, de Mimes, vol. 
ii ; Haag, La France Protestante ; Iloefer, Mow. Biog. 
Generale , xxi, 746. 

Graves, Hiram Atwill, a Baptist pastor and 


GRAVES 


972 


GRAVING 


writer, was born at Wendell, Mass., in 1813. In boy- ] 
hood he was a precocious student. He graduated at 
Middlebury College, Vt., in 1834. On account of im- 
paired health he did not pursue a regular course of j 
study for the ministry, but was ordained in 1837 at , 
Springfield, Mass. lie became in 1840 pastor of a 
church in Lynn, and in 1842 editor of the Christian Re- 
flector, a paper which has since, in conjunction with ( 
'another, become a journal of extensive influence. In- ' 
firm health sent him to Cuba in 1845, and to reside in 
Jamaica in 184G-49. He returned without essential 
benefit, and died in 1850. He was author of The Fam- 
ily Circle : — The Attractions of JJeavm. (L. E. S.) 

Graves, Richard, I).D., a learned Irish divine, 
was born at Kilfinnan, Limerick, Oct. 1, 17G3, and was 
educated at Trinity College, Dublin, of which he be- 
came fellow in 178G. In 1813 he became dean of Ar- 
dagh, and regius professor of divinity. lie died Mar. 
29, 1829. Horne pronounces his Lectures on the Penta- 
teuch (1807, 2 vols. 8vo) “indispensably necessary to 
the Biblical student.” Besides that learned work, 
which passed through several editions, he wrote The 
Apostles and Evangelists not Enthusiasts (1798) : — Scrip- 
tural Proofs of the Trinity (four discourses) : — Absolute 
Predestination compared with the Scripture statement of 
the Justice of Gael: — Predestination repuejnant to the gen- ' 
eral tenor of Scripture (Loud. 1825, 8vo). These, with 
a number of Sermons , are given in his Whole Works 
now first collected (London, 1840, 4 vols. Svo), of which 
vol. i contains a memoir of his Life and Writings by 
bis son, Ii. H. Graves, D.D. 

Graving. There is much indistinctness in the 
terms of this ancient art of the Jews, arising from the 
fact that one and the same artisan combined, in skill 
and practice, many branches, which the modern prin- 
ciple of “division of labor” has now assigned to differ- 
ent pursuits. Thus Aholiab was not only “an en- 
graver,” but also “a cunning workman” in general 
art, “and an embroiderer in blue, and in purple, and 
in scarlet and fine linen” (Exod. xxxviii, 23). In like 
manner Bezaleel is described as accomplished “in all 
manner of workmanship ; and to devise curious works, 
to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in the 
cutting of stones to set them, and in carving of wood, 
to make any manner of cunning work” (Exod. xxxv, 
31-33). These numerous gifts they both possessed 
and practiced themselves, and imparted to others ; so 
that they formed an early school of art to supply the 
demand created by the institution of the Mosaic ritual, 
the members of which school were as comprehensive 
in their attainments as their great teachers (Exod. 
xxxv, 34; xxxvi, i, 2). The same combination of 
arts seems to have characterized the later school, 
which was formed under the auspices of David, when 
preparing for the erection of the Temple (1 Chron. 
xxii, 15; xxviii, 21). Many of these artificers were 
Phoenicians, whom the king had invited to his new 
capital (2 Sam. v, 11 ; 1 Chron. xiv, 1). In the next 
reign, Hiram, to whose genius the Temple of Solomon 
owed much of the beauty of its architectural details, as 
well as its sacred vessels (1 Kings vii, 15-45), was a 
native of Tyre, the son of a Tyrian artificer by an Is- 
raelitish mother. This man’s skill was again as com- 
prehensive as that of his great predecessors (v, 14). 

1. 2AFI, chat sab' , although once in the A. V. (Job 
xix, 24) translated “graven” (with an undoubted ref- 
erence to the ancient art of engraving), is generally 
used to indicate the rougher work of hewing stone or 
wood, in quarry or forest. In Prov. ix, 1, indeed, it is 
applied to the finer art of hewing or fashioning pillars ; 
but its usual objectives of “X2 ( cistern , Jer. ii, 13), 
“Ci? ( sepulchre , Isa. xxii, 1G), “pi ( vine-press , Isa. v, 
2), prove that -Ii™ has to do witii rougher operations 
than those which fall under our idea of “engraving.” 


(But see below, under I2S\) This word is contrasted 
with 

2. w ?ri, charas/i (or, as it once occurs, P, “FI, clia- 

rath' , in Exod. xxxii, 1G), which is used to describe 
“engraving” in Jer. xvii, 3. In Gen. iv, 22 the par- 
ticipial derivative of this root is employed in the de- 
scription of Tubal-cain, the Biblical progenitor of all 
artificers of the kind indicated in tills article. But it 
is less in the verbal forms than in the noun that 

this word expresses the art before us. As a noun it 
occurs more than thirty times, and is rendered vari- 
ously in A. V. (“engraver,” “craftsman,” “smith,” 
“ artificer,” etc.). Though it indicates artistic work 
by fine instruments, in metal, wood, and stone, and is 
thus opposed to the rougher operations of “SH, it yet 
includes other usages, which remove it from t he spe- 
cific sense of our art. (Thus, while with "jpx alone, 
Exod. xxviii, 11, it may well refer to the tine work 
of the engraver in stone, yet in the phrase “("S: 

^ip, literally, hewer of the stone of the wall, 2 Sam. 
v, 11 ; or more simply P“p [yvorlcers of v:all ~\ , 

1 Chron. xiv, 1, it can hardly describe a higher art 
than what is attributed to it in A. V. — that of the ordi- 
nary “mason ;” similarly with timber , it points 

to the work of the “carpenter,” 1 Chron. xiv, 1, etc. ; 
and with iron, to that of the “ smith” or iron- 

founder.) The prevalent idea, however, of UiPfi is the 
subtle work of the finer arts ; and with this well agree 
such passages as Prov. vi, 18, where the word describes 
the “ heart that deviseth wicked imaginations,” and 1 
Sam. xxiii, 9, where it is predicated of Saul, “ secret- 
ly practising mischief” (Hiph. part. 

MP“iPt). Gcscnius ( Thes . lleb. p. 529) has collected 
instances of the like meaning of the word in the other 
Shcmitie languages, and compares it with the “ doli 
fabricator” of Virgil, Aineid, ii, 2G4 ; and the cognate 
phrases, “ fabricare quidvis,” Plautus, Asin. i, 1, 89; 
and CoXov revyeiv, icaica Tet\eiv, of Hesiod and Homer, 
and rtKTahuoSat ptjriv, Iliad, x, 19. In connection 
with the word win, we have in 1 Chron. xiv, 14, an 
indication that, even in early times, encouragement 
was given to associations of art among the ancient 
Jews, by providing for their members a local habita- 
tion in which to pursue their calling, which is proved 
to have been an honorable one from the illustrious 
names that are associated with its pursuit (ver. 13, 
14). From this passage (of ver. 14, compared with 
ver. 21 and 23), we further learn that the various arts 
were hereditary in certain families. (The word “ stone- 
sqnarers,” in 1 Kings v, 18, is a different term. See 
Giblite.) 

3. ppn, chakak', describes a branch of art which 

more literally coincides with our idea of engraving. 
In Ezek. iv, 1 the word is used of engraving a plan 
or map ; in Job xix, 23, of inscribing upon tablets 
(of stone or metal), a very early instance of the art; 
similarly in Isa. xxx, 8; while in Ezek. xxiii, 14 
(npn*2 ^r:x) the word seems to indicate painting, 
portraying in colors (‘w‘72 dip pH) ; and the addi- 
tion of upon the wall, raises the suspicion 

that fresco art, which was known to very ancient na- 
tions, including the Egyptians, was practiced by the 
Babylonians, and admired, if not imitated by the Jews ; 
comp. ver. 14, 15, 10. (On the art of coloring as known 
to the Assyrians, Egyptians, Greeks, etc., see Sir G. 
Wilkinson, On Color and Taste , p. 153.) The Sept, 
renders the remarkable phrase before ns, iuoyap)pk- 
roi iv ypaflci , without specifying color; hut Sym- 
maclius, the Vulgate, the Peshito, and the Chaldee 
paraphrase all include in their versions the express 
idea of color . The idea of careful and accurate art which 
is implied in the term under consideration imparts 


GRAVING 


973 


GRAY 


much beauty to the passage in Isa. xl, 16, “ Behold, I 
have graven thee upon the palms of my hands,” where 
the same word is used. (There is here an allusion to 
the Eastern custom of tracing out on the hands the 
sketches of eminent cities or places, and then rubbing 
them with the powder of the hennah or cypress, and so 
making the marks perpetual. Maundrell ( Journey 
from Aleppo to Jerusalem, p. 100 [London, 1810]) de- 
scribes the process of “pilgrims having their arms and 
hands marked with the usual ensigns of Jerusalem 
See also Rosenmiiller, ad loc., and J. D. Michaelis, 
Nokc in Lowtkli Prcelect. [Oxford, 1821], p. 501, 502; 
and Burder’s Oriental Customs [Lond. 1840], p. 149.) 
The second clause of this passage, “ Thy walls are 
continually before me,” may be compared with Isa. 
xxii, 16, where our verb ppn is also emplo}'cd to de- 
scribe the engraved plan or sketch of a house for ar- 
chitectural purposes. Among other applications of 
the art indicated by this word may be mentioned mon- 
umental stones, such as the *TJ2?n “(DIS: of 1 Sam. vii, 
T2, with suitable inscriptions; see especially Deut. 
xxvii, 2-8. 

4. In b^3,pasaV, and its noun , pe'sel (always 
rendered in A. V. “ graven image"), we have the opera- 
tion rather of the sculptor’s or the carver’s art than the 
engraver’s. In several passages of Isaiah (xxx, 22 ; 
xl,19 ; xli, 7 ; xliv, 12-15) curious details arc given of 
the fabrication of idols, which afforded much employ- 
ment to the various artificers engaged in the compli- 
cated labor of image-manufacture (see also Jer. x, 3-9, 
from which it would seem that the wrought and pre- 
pared metal for covering the idol was imported, and 
put on by Jewish artisans). Working in ivory was 
common to the ancient Egyptians (Wilkinson’s A nc. 
Egyptians, iii, 1G9), the Assyrians (Layard’s Nineveh , ii, 
420), the ancient Greeks (Grote's Greece , vi, 30-82), 
and the artificers of Jerusalem (Solomon’s ivory throne, 
1 Kings x, 18; ivory palaces, Psa. xlv, 8 ; ivory beds, 
Amos vi, 4) and of Samaria (Ahab’s ivory house, 1 
Kings xxii, 39; which was not an uncommon luxury, 
Amos iii, 15). No doubt the alliance of the royal 
houses of Israel and (indirectly) of Judah with the 
Phoenician monarch (1 Kings xvi, 31) was the means 
of attracting many of the artificers of Tyre, and Sidon, 
and Gebal to the metropolis of each of the Jewish king- 
doms ; both in Solomon’s time and in Ahab’s, ivory- 
sculpture was probably a Phoenician art. The neigh- 
boring idolators* whose example was so disastrous to 
Israel, were skilled in image-manufacture. From Deut. 
vii, 25 it appears that the body of the idol was of sculp- 
tured wood, overlaid with one or other of the precious 
metals. The passage, 1 Sam. vi, 2-12, seems to prove 
that the Philistines had artificers in the precious met- 
als capable of forming the figures of small animals; 
and their idols that were taken from the spoils of the 
great battle of Baal-perazim were probably graven of 
wood (1 Chron. xiv, 12). 

5. 'T.rs, pathach' (in Piel and Pual), is perhaps dis- 
tinguished from the term we have just considered 
(^02) by being used to describe figures in relief rather 
than statues, such as the cherubic figures on the walls 
of the Temple (see 1 Chron. iii, 7). Compare the cog- 
nate noun HiriD, pitta' ach, engraved figure, in 1 Kings 
vi, 29, which passage informs us that the Temple walls 
were lavishly adorned with these figures, standing out 
probably in various degrees of relief (see also other 
but similar work, described by this verb, 1 Kings vii, 
36). The chief application, however, of the word is to 
the cutting and engraving of precious stones and met- 
als (intaglio work, as distinguished from the raised 
work of cameos, etc.), such as the breastplate of the 
high-priest (Exod. xxviii, 9-11, 21), and the plate of 
his mitre (ver. 36, 37). The mystic engraving of Zcch. 
iii, 9 is likewise described in the same terms. The 
splendid jewelry of Solomon’s time, as referred to in 


the Canticles, i, 10, 11, is best classed under the art in. 
dicated by flTS and its derivatives. From Isa. iii, 18, 
24, it appears that this art of the goldsmith continued 
rife in later reigns, and was not unknown even after 
the captivity (see Zech. vi, 11). The neighboring na- 
tions were no less skilled in this branch of art ; for in- 
stance, the Egyptians, Exod. xii, 35, compared with 
xxxii, 2, 3 ; the Canaanites , Josh, vi, 19; the Midian- 
ites, Numb, xxxi, 50, and (afterwards) Judg. viii, 24- 
26; the Ammonites , 1 Chron. xx, 2; the Syrians of Zo- 
bah and Hamath, 2 Sam. viii, 7-11. 

6. mikla' ath, like our last term of art, de- 
scribes sculpture in relief (Fiirst, Hehr. 1 Yorterk. i, 7S0) ; 
it occurs 1 Kings vi, 18, 29 (“carved figures” of cher- 
ubims), 32 ; vii, 31 (“ gravings).” 

7. che'ret, occurs only in Exod. xxxii, 4 (A. V. 
“a graving tool"), and in Isa. viii, 1 (A.V. “ajM”). 
This was rather the scalprum fahrile of the Romans 
(Livy xxvii, 49) than the stylus (see Smith’s Diet, of 
G. and R. Antiq. s. v. Scalptura. For two other opin- 
ions as to the meaning of ki'nn in Exod. xxxii, 4, see 
Gesentus, Thes. p. 520). 

et (which in Psa. xlv, 2 and Jer. viii, 8, means a 
writer’s style or reed), has the same meaning as the 
previous word in the other places of its occurrence (Job 
xix,24 ; Jer. xvii, 1) ; here it has the epithet Pins, i.q. 
“ pen of iron.” The occurrence of 23 ”, in Job xix, 24, 
imparts to the the idea of a finer art than is 

usually expressed by that verb (see De Sanlcy’s Hist . 
de Part Judaique, Paris, 1858). — Kitto, s.v. Engraving. 
Sec Carve. 

Gray (some form of the root '2NO, sib), applied to 
the hair as an indication of old age (q. v.), which in 
the East is universally respected (Prov. xx, 29). See 
Hair. 

Gray Friars. One of the mendicant orders, oth- 
erwise called Franciscans, Minorites, etc. The name 
was given from the color of the dress which they wore. 
See Franciscans. 

Gray, James, D.D., a minister of the Associated 
Reformed Church, was born at Corvoam, Ireland, Dec. 
25, 1770. He entered the college of Glasgow in 1790; 
graduated in 1793; afterward studied theology under 
the Rev. John Rogers, and was licensed by the Presby- 
tery of Monaghan. In 1797 he sailed for America. 
After laboring with great acceptance at Washington, 
N. Y., until 1803, he accepted a unanimous call to the 
Spruce-street Church, in connection with the Associate 
Reformed Synod, Philadelphia. In 1805 he received 
the degree of D.D. from the University of Penns 3 r lva- 
nia. He was one of the most important agents in es- 
tablishing the theological seminary of the Associated 
Reformed Church in the city of New York. In 1808 
he took an active part in the organization of the Phil- 
adelphia Bible Society, and was for a longtime its cor- 
responding secretary. At this time, in connection with 
Dr. S. B. Wylie, he opened a classical academy, which 
soon obtained great repute. After several years of 
this labor lie resigned the school, and also his pastoral 
charge, and removed to Baltimore, where he devoted 
himself especially to the study of certain points in the- 
ology until his death, which occurred at Gettysburg, 
Pa., Sept. 20, 1824. His literary reputation rests chief- 
ly on his Mediatorial Reign of the Son of God. He also 
edited for one year a Theological Review, and published 
several Occasional Sermons. — Sprague, Annals (Associ- 
ate Ref.), ix, 94. 

Gray, Robert, D.D., bishop of Bristol, was born at 
London in 1762. He studied at Eton and Oxford, took 
orders, and became successively vicar of Farringdon 
(Berkshire), rector of Craik (Yorkshire) in 1802, and 
canon of Durham in 1804. His benevolence, and the 
talents evinced in his works, caused him to be appoint- 


GREASE 


974 


GREAT BRITAIN 


ed by lord Liverpool’s cabinet to the bishopric of Bris- 
tol in 1S27. He was very popular in this position, and 
the duke of Wellington offered him the see of Bangor. 
He declined, and died soon after at Rodney House, Sept. 
28, 1834. He wrote : Key to the 0. T. and Apocrypha, 
or ail account of their several books, their contents, and 
authors, and of the times in which they were respect- 
ively written (Lond. 1790, 8vo ; 9th ed. 1829, 8vo) : — 
Discourses illustrative of the Evidence , In fluence , and 
Doctrines of Christianity (Lond. 1793, 8vo) : — Sermons 
on the Principles of the Reformation of the Church of 
Enylund (Bampton Lecture, 179G, Svo): — The Theory 
of Dreams (Lond. 1808, Svo) : — The Connection between 
the sacred Writings and the Literature of Jewish and 
heathen A uthors , etc., with a View to Evidence in Confor- 
mation of the Truth and revealed Religion (Lond. 1819, 
2d ed.2 vols. Svo). — Rose, New General Biograph. Diet.; 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, xxi, 760 ; Darling, Cyclop. 
Bibliographica, i, 1309. 

Grease (l?n, che'ltb, Psa. cxix, 70, fat [q. v.], as 
elsewhere rendered). 

Great Britain and Ireland, tiie United King- 
dom of, is, since the union of Ireland, the full official 
designation of the country more generally known as 
Great Britain, Britain, or the United Kingdom. It 
includes the two large islands of Great Britain (Eng- 
land and Scotland) and Ireland, and the adjacent small- 
er islands, together with the Channel Islands and the 
Isle of Man. The island of Great Britain — so called to 
distinguish it from Britannia Minor, or Little Britain 
[see Bretagne], in France — lies between lat. 49° 57" 
30" and 58° 40' 24" X., and between long. 1° 46' E. 
and 6° 13' W., and is the largest island in Europe. It 
is bounded on the N. by the Atlantic, on the E. by the 
North .Sea, on the S. by the English Channel, and on 
the W. by the Atlantic, the Irish Sea, and St. George’s 
Channel. The most northerly point is Dunnet Head, 
in Caithness; the most southerly, Lizard Point, in 
Cornwall ; the most easterly, Lowestoft Ness, in Nor- 
folk; and the most westerly, Ardnamnrchan Point, in 
Argyleshire. Its greatest length is about 608 miles, 
and its greatest breadth (from Land’s End to the east 
coast of Kent) about 320 miles, while its surface con- 
tains about 89,600 square miles. In addition to the 
home territories composing the kingdom, Great Brit- 
ain possesses a multitude of dependencies, some of them 
of vast extent, scattered over every part of the globe, 
and constituting “an empire over which the sun never 
sets.” According to the official census held in 1861 in 
the United Kingdom, and nearly all the colonies ex- 
cept British India, the extent and population of all the 
British dominions were in that year as follows : 



Sq. Miles. 

Inhabitants. 

United Kiugdom (inclusive of soldiers 
and sailors) 

121,115 

3,364,722 

933,722 

122 

512,193 

106,449 

130,756 

7,647 

25,485 

2,582,070 

29,321,288 

9,264,243 

135,571,351 

165,317 

3,33.3,507 

1,114,508 

1,004,595 

7,426 

2,363,767 

1,322,937 

Colonies and possessions (exclusive of 
soldiers, 47,814 men) 

British India (exclusive of British 
nrmv, 02,893 men) 

European Possessions 

North American Colonies. 

West Indian Possessions 

African Possessions 

Islands in the South Atlantic Ocean.. 

Possessions in the Indian Ocean 

Australia and New Zealand 

Total 

4,419,559 174, 156, SS2 


Not included in this enumeration is the vast territory 
in North America which heretofore belonged to the 
Hudson’s Bay Company, which in 1869 ceded its right 
of sovereignty. Added to the above total of square 
miles, this territory would increase the total extent of 
the British dominions to about seven millions of square 
miles, and make it, in point of extent, the first empire 
of the world. The total population was estimated in 
1869 at 200,000,000; and in this respect the British 
empire was the second of the "world, being exceeded 
onty by the Chinese empire. 


In England and Wales the Anglican Church is rec« 
ognised as the state Church [see England, Church 
of], and the sovereign must belong to it. In Ireland 
the Anglican Church was also the established Church 
until 1869, when, after a long and violent struggle be- 
tween the Conservative and Liberal parties, it was 
disestablished. See Ireland. In Scotland the es- 
tablished Church is Presbyterian. See Scotland. 
According to the census returns of 1851 (in the census 
returns of 1861 religious statistics were not included), 
the number of places of worship, together with the sit- 
tings provided in England and Wales, and the estima- 
ted number of attendants on a particular day, were as 
follows : 


ENGLAND AND WALES. 

Places 

of 

Wor- 

ship. 

Sittings 

Provided. 

Estimated 
Number of 
Attend- 
ants. 

Established Church 

14,077 

5,317,915 

3,773,474 

Wesleyan Methodists (compris- 




ing seven distinct sects) 

11,207 

2,194,29S 

1 ,385, 3S2 

Independents or Congregation- 




al ists 

3,244 

1,067,760 

793,142 

Baptists (comprising six distinct 




sects) 

2,789 

751.343 

587, 97S 

Calvinistic Methodists 

937 

250,678 

180,725 

Scottish and Irish Presbyterians 

161 

86.812 

60,131 

Isolated Congregations 

539 

104,431 

63,572 

j ltoman Catholics 

570 

186,111 

305,393 

I Society cf Friends 

371 

91,599 

i 1-8,172 

Unitarians 

229 

68,554' 

[ 37,156 

Latter-day Saints, or Mormons. . 

222 

30.783 

' 18,800 

San deman ians 

~6 

956 

587 

' Jews 

53 

8,438 

4,150 

Brethren 

132 

18,529 

1 10,414 

Moravians 

32 

9,305 

7,364 

New Church 

50 

12,107 

7,082 

1 Apostolic Church 

32 

7,437 

4,908 

Foreign Protestant, Catholic, and 




| Greek churches 

16 

4,457 

2,612 

Established Church 

14,077 

5,317,915 

3,773,474 

Other Denominations 

20,390 

, 4,894,720 3, 4,87,55 S 

Total 


10,212,635 

7,261,032 



Places 


Estimated 


of 

Sittings 

Number of 

SCOTLAND. 

Wor- 

Provided. 

Attend- 


ship. 


ants. 

Established Church 

Ils3 

707,O8S 

1 713.567 

Free Church 

889 

495,335 

438,363 

United Presbyterians 

465 

288,100 

573,554 

Reformed Presbvterians 

39 

16,969 

15.055 

Original Secede is 

36 

16,424 

15,781 

Scot eli Episcopalians 

134 

40,022 

35,769 

Independents or Congregation- 




alists 

192 

76,342 

1 70A51 

Evangelical Union 

23 

10,319 

io,rs9 

Baptists 

119 

26,0>6 

24,330 

Wesleyan Methodists 

82 

22,441 

21,708 

Glasites or Saudemanians 

6 

1,1163 

S90 

New Church 

5 

710 

630 

Society of Friends 

7 

2,152 

1 2,153 

Homan Catholics 

117 

52,766 

! 48,771 

[Unitarians 

5 

2,437 

2,438 

Isolated Congregations 

61 

11,402 

1 9,401 


1 

200 

200 

(jews 

1 

67 

67 

Mormons 

20 

3,132 

3,177 

Apostolic Church 

3 

675 

1 675 

Established Church 

1183 

767,038 

713,567 

Other Denominations 

2212 

1,067,717 

1 975,482 

Total 

“33915 

1,834, ■'■’05 11,689,049 


“ In England the chief institutions for education are 
the ancient national universities of Oxford and Cam- 


bridge ; the more recent institutions of London, Dur- 
ham, and Lampeter in Wales; the classical schools 
of Eton, Westminster, Winchester, Harrow, Charter- 
house, and Rugby; the various military schools; the 
colleges of the dissenting denominations ; the middle- 
class schools, either started by individual teachers, and 
hence called 4 adventure’ schools, or by associated bod- 
ies, acting as directors, to whom the teachers are re- 
sponsible; the schools of design, and the various ele- 
mentary schools and training-colleges in connection 
with the different religious denominations. The num- 
ber of day-schools in England and Wales in 1851 was 
46,042, of which 15,518 were public — i. e. schools deriv- 
ing a portion of their income from some source besides 


GREATHEAD 


975 


GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE 


the scholars — and 30,524 private — i. e. sustained en- 
tirely by the payments of scholars. The total number 
of scholars was 2,144,378, of whom 3,422,982 attended | 
the public, and 721,396 the private schools. As the 
population then amounted to 17,927,009, this gives a ! 
proportion of one scholar to every 8£of the inhabitants. 

“Scotland possesses four universities for the higher 
branches of education, viz. those of Edinburgh, Glas- 
gow, St. Andrew’s, and Aberdeen, besides a variety of 
minor colleges connected with the Episcopalian, Free 
Church, and other non-established churches; a com- 
plete system of parish schools, grammar-schools, or 
academies in the chief towns, which serve as prepara- 
tory gymnasia for the universities, and a large number 
of ‘denominational schools.’ In 1851 the number of 
day-schools was 5242, of which 3349 were public, and 
1893 private. The number of scholars was 368,517, 
of whom 280,045 belonged to the public, and 88,472 to 
the private schools. Out of a population of 2,888,742, 
this gives a percentage of 12’76, or 1 scholar to every 
7^- of the inhabitants. According to the education sta- 
tistics of 1861, the number of children from 5 to 15 
years of age attending school in Scotland were 441,166, 
which, out of a population of 3,061,251, gives 1 scholar 
to every 6| of the inhabitants” (Chambers, Cyclop.). 

For the Church History of Great Britain, see Eng- 
land, Church of; Scotland, Church of; Ire- 
land, and the articles on the several dissenting de- 
nominations. The most important works on the Church 
History of Great Britain have been referred to in the 
art. on England, Church of; besides them must be 
mentioned Bogue and Bennett, History of Dissenters 
(Loud. 1808-14, 4 vols.) ; J. Bennett, Histoty of Dissent 
during the lat thirty Years (Loud. 1849). (A. J. S.) 

Greathead. See Grosseteste. 

Great Owl. See Owl. 

Great Sea. See Sea. 

Greaves (nn^*2, milschah', lit. a facing; Sept. 
KvfyiiCt £> Vulg. ocrece) occurs in the A. V. only in 1 
Sam. xvii, 6, in the description of the equipment of 
Goliath — u He had greaves of brass (r«np, copper ) 
npon his legs” (*P>JH lit. on his feet , whence some ; 

have supposed only a kind of hoot to be meant). Its I 
ordinary meaning is a piece of defensive armor reach- 1 
ing from the foot to the knee, and thus protecting the 
shin of the wearer. This was the case with the kvij- 
fiQ of the Greeks, which derived its name from its cov- 
ering the Kin'ipt}, i.e. the lower part of the leg, and was 
a highly esteemed piece of defensive armor (see Smith, 
Diet, of Class. Ant. s. v. Ocrea). The Heb. term is de- 



rived from F1ST2, the fore part of anything. Hence all 
the ancient versions and Josephus (Ant. vi, 9, 1) agree 
in regarding it as designating a defensive armor for 
the leg. It is to be distinguished from 'pxp, seon f 
(Isa. ix, 4), which Gesenius thinks was a sort of mili- 
tary shoe like the Roman caliga ; and it probably was 
similar to the greaves of the Assyrians, as represented 
in their sculptures, which not only protected the leg, 
but covered the upper part of the foot like our gaiters, 
and seem to have been laced up in front ; in other cases 


they appear to have extended over the whole thigh 
(Layard, Nineveh , ii, 261). See Armor. 



Gre'cia (Heb. Yarnin', yj, i. e. Javan [q. v.], as 
usually rendered), the Latin form (Dan. viii, 21 ; x, 
20; xi, 2) of the country elsewhere termed Greece 
(q.v.). 

Gre'cian (Heb. in the plur. Beney hay-Yevanim' , 
D n 21?ri *'32t, sons of the Ionians , Joel iii, 6; in the 
Apocr. ’'EXXijv, 1 Macc. vi, 2; viii, 9, 18 ; 2 Maec. iv, 
15; xiii,2 ; in the X. T. 'EXXi/i'itm/c, a Hellenist , Acts 
vi, 1 ; ix, 29 ; xi, 20), the name of the people elsewhere 
called Greeks (q. v.). 

Grecian Architecture. Grecian architecture 
differs from other styles of ancient architecture in this, 
that it was devoted almost solely to religious uses. 
Its chief aim was to supply permanent and worthy 
temples, as residences of the deities, as, during the 
early history of Greece, the images and statues of the 
deities were placed in the hollow trunks of trees and 
under canopies for protection. 

Most of the elements from which the Ionic order of 
architecture was developed are easily traced to an As- 
syrian origin, as is seen in the ornamentation of the 



Fig. 1. Plan of the Treasury of Atreus (from Lubke’s Ge- 
schichte dcr Architelctur). 



GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE 070 GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE 


columns and walls of the Treasury of Atreus at My- 1 
ceme. Oil the other hand, the elements of the Doric i 
order were mostly adopted from the more severe and 
stately 7 temple architecture of Egy r pt. Under the ex- 
traordinary aesthetic feeling and culture of the Greeks, 
these elements, though of foreign origin, were devel- 
oped and modified until, with the addition of certain 
native elements, there was produced a degree of per- 
fection of architectural form, and of symmetrical and 
harmonious combination of parts into a unique whole, 
that has never been surpassed in the whole history of 
architecture. 



Fig. 3. Pillar at the Entrance of the Treasury of Atreus. 

The tendency to Oriental luxury and individual 
power that characterized the treasure-houses of the 
Tvpcivvot was checked by the overthrow of their chiefs 
and the establishment of democracy. From the time of 
the TvpcivroL till the accession of Alexander the Great, 
Grecian architecture (as well as sculpture and painting) 
was devoted almost solely 7 to the service of religion. 

In addition to the Ionic and Doric orders, a third 
order, the Corinthian, was developed in Greece. It 
was, however, hut little used until after the time of 
Alexander, when true religious feeling and patriotic 
sentiment had given way, throughout Greece and its 
colonics, to Oriental sensuous enjoyment and luxury. 

The greatest variety and artistic freedom pervaded 
the Grecian architecture, both in the development of 
the individual members and in the general planning 
of the temples. All of the mouldings and the orna- 
mentation were drawn with a free hand, and not by 7 
mathematical instruments, as was the ease in Eoman 
and Gothic architecture. With all of this variety and 
freedom, the typical character of the Grecian architec- 
ture was well preserved. The Doric order was the 
favorite, as the best adapted to the spirit of temple ar- 
chitecture. More than one order was frequently 7 in- 
troduced, however, into the same edifice. From the 
erection of the earliest Doric temple, that of Neptune 
at Corinth, there was a gradual progress in the devel- 
opment of elegance of form in the single members of 
the edifice, and in the development of symmetry and 
harmony 7 in the entire structure. During the earlier 
history of Grecian architecture, polvchromy was used 
to a great extent. Later, the'ornamentation became 
more sculpturesque. But color was used to develop 


V 


TjpnnonanTnnnTnininononinTnTaaCT 





Fig. 4. Ionic Order; from the Erechtheum in Athens (Liiblie). 


the relief of the architectural forms of the capitals, the 
cornices, and the panels of the ceilings, until the pe- 
riod of decadence of the Grecian architecture. 

Great care was taken to select the best sites for these 
temples. Oracles were consulted for their location. 
The temples of tutelary 7 deities were usually 7 placed on 
the highest ground in the city'. They 7 thus command- 
ed, in many 7 cases, most magnificent prospects. They 
were also thus seen at a great distance. The temples 
were sometimes surrounded by 7 sacred groves, or by 
groves of olive and orange trees. The temples were 
often surrounded also by 7 sacred inclosures, within 
which were frequently 7 erected altars, and even tem- 
ples to other deities. The temples of Mercury 7 were 
usually 7 placed on lower grounds ; those of Mars, Ve- 
nus, Vulcan, and Esculapius outside of and near the 
gates of the city 7 . The front was always adorned with 
an equal number of columns — of four, six, eight, or 
ten. On the sides the number of columns was usually 
unequal. As the length of the temple was usually 
double the brcadtlq the number of columns at the side 
was thirteen for six on the front; seventeen for eight 
on the front. The proportion between the diameter 
and the height of the columns and of the space be- 



GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE 


977 GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE 




I'ig. 5. Ionic Order ; from the monument of Lyvicratea in 
Athens (Lubke). 


tween the columns varied in different temples and in 
different periods. Some temples had a portico on the 
front only ; others on the front and rear, and others 
still on all four sides. Some had two rows of columns 
on the front and rear, and one on the side ; and others 
luid four rows on the front and rear, and two rows on 
the side. In some temples the cella required no pil- 
lars for the support of the roof ; in others the cella 
was so large as to require a row, and sometimes two 
rows of pillars. Sometimes a gallery ran around the 
cella. The entire cella of some temples was covered 
with a roof, the central part being open to the sky. 
By this means only could the paintings of the cele- 
brated artists which adorned the walls of the cella be 
distinctly seen. 

Windows were occasionally introduced, as in the 
Erechtheum at Athens. It is supposed that these 
were closed by very thin slabs of alabaster or gypsum, 
thus giving a tranquil and mysterious light to the in- 
terior. 

The base of the temple was raised several steps 
above the ground upon which it rested. The interior 
usually consisted of a room (cella) to contain the statue 
III.— Q q q 


of the deity. This cella opened to the east, that the 
first light of the morning might fall upon the image 
of the deity. Sometimes there was another room in 
the rear of the cella (as the treasury in the Parthenon 



at Athens). The gables contained groups of sculpture 
illustrative of some event connected with the mythol- 
ogy of the deity to whom the temple was dedicated. 
The metopes of the friezes frequently contained also 
smaller groups of sculpture. Upon the walls of the 
portico were frequently long series of sculptures. 

The entire temple was erected primarily as a resi- 
dence for the deity. It could contain but few per- 
sons at a time. Sacrifices, ceremonies, and processions 
were performed w ithout the temple. Beside the statue 
of the deity, to Avhose service the temple was erected, 
w r ere often placed smaller statues of friendly deities. 
Statues of priests v'ere sometimes placed in the vesti- 
bule of the cella. Thank-offerings, sometimes of great 
value, were often placed upon the walls both of the 
cella and of the portico. An altar upon Avhich offer- 
ings Avere placed often stood before the deity. But 
sacrifices were performed upon an altar placed before 
the entrance, but w-ithin the view r of the image of the 
deity. 

The other edifices of Grecian architecture w'ere,like 
the temples, for the benefit and use of the entire pop- 
ulation. They consisted mostly of fortifications, for- 
tified entrances (propyloea), and halls of justice (basil- 
ica). These partook of the general style of architec- 
ture in which the temples were built. 

So different in principles of construction, and in the 
object for which they Avere designed, Avere the edifices 
of ancient Greece, that only Avith the greatest modifi- 
cation of detail can their style, and much less their 
plan, be adapted to the Avants of modern life. Least 


GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE 978 GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE 


of all is the Grecian temple adapted to the purposes of 
a Christian church. 

The history of Grecian architecture extends from 
the 7th century B.C. till the conquest of the Orient by 
Koine. The greater part of the earlier monuments of 
this architecture are found in the western colonies of 
Sicily and Grccia Magna. Most of the ancient tem- 
ples in Greece itself were destroyed by the Persians. 
Most of the temples in Ionia and the further Orient 
vere built during or after the reign of Alexander the 
^reat. The Doric style prevailed mostly in Sicily, 
Grecia Magna, the Peloponnesus, and the northern 
part of Greece. The Ionic and Corinthian styles pre- 
vailed mostly in Asia Minor, while all three styles 
were found in Attica, and especially in Athens. 

In Sicily there were over twenty temples that were 
famous for their size and splendor. They were most- 
ly built in the 5th and Gth centuries B.C. The largest 
of these was the temple of Jupiter at Selinus, which 
was 350 feet long and 170 feet wide. The temple of 
Diana at Syracuse is remarkable for the indications of 
the influence of Egyptian architecture in its style and 
construction. The temple of Minerva -at Syracuse was 
famous for its costly ornamentation. Hiero II built 
also at Syracuse a colossal altar, which rested on a 
lofty base G25 feet long and 73 feet wide, and was re- 
markable for the elegance of its architectural propor- 
tions. In Agrigentum were three imposing temples, 
the largest of them, that of Jupiter Olympus, being 
344 feet long and 17G wide. At Paestum, in Italy, are 
the remains of two temples and of a basilica, that rank 
among the finest ruins of Grecian architecture. The}' 
show still the heavy influence of Egyptian architec- 
ture upon the Doric style, but yet they are marked by 
great freedom of treatment and harmony of proportion. 

One of the most remarkable temples in the Pelopon- 
nesus was that of Neptune at Corinth, of which but 
seven columns and the architrave above them remain. 
As the earliest ruins of Greek architecture extant, 
these are characterized by a heaviness of proportion 
that is not found in any later edifices. This temple 
dates from G50 B.C. The temple of Minerva, on the 
island of Egina, is remarkable for the traces of color- 
ing yet remaining in the architectural ornamentation, 
and for the archaic character of the sculpture of the 
pediments, now in the Glyptothek at Munich. Among 
the most famous temples in Greece itself was that of 
Jupiter Olympius at Olympia. It was 205 feet long 
and 93 feet wide, and was adorned with most choice 
works of Grecian sculpture. 


The glory of Grecian architecture is, however, to be 
seen in Athens. This city, with all of its temples, 
was utterly destroyed by the Persians 4!S0 B.C. First 
among the temples of the newly rebuilt city was that 
of Theseus. This is to-day the best preserved of all 
ancient Grecian tenqfies. In symmetry of proportion 
it surpassed all other temples that were built before 
it. The second temple in the new city was that of 
Victoria Aptera. This temple was taken down by the 
Turks in the 17th century to build a battery with. 
All of its parts were found in 1835, and the temple was 
completely restored. It is one of the most graceful 
monuments of Grecian architecture. The Parthenon 
at Athens is, however, the crowning glory of Grecian 
architecture. It was erected 448 B.C. Its length was 
230 feet, and its breadth 102 feet. In the perfection cf 
proportion of all the parts, and in the harmony of their 
union in an entire edifice, the Parthenon equals or sur- 
passes all other edifices ever erected by the hand of 
man. It was also adorned with statues and other 
works of sculpture by the best sculptors that Greece 
or the world has ever produced. The Erechtheum and 
the Propylaeum also showed the freedom with which 
the Greek, architects varied the plans and construction 
of their edifices, without losing the character of the 
architecture, or grace of proportion and unity of ef- 
fect. Nearly equal to the Parthenon was the tem- 
ple of Diana at Eleusis, in which the mysteries were 
performed. There are but few ruins of the famous 
temple of Apollo at Delphi, which was burnt in the 
Gth century B.C., and the rebuilding of which -was 
hardly completed at the time of the Koman conquest. 

In size and costly magnificence, the temple of Di- 
ana at Ephesus exceeded all other temples of Grecian 
art. This magnificent edifice w r as completed in B.C. 
400. It was 425 feet long and 220 feet wfide. Ero- 
stratns set fire to it in B.C. 355, but it was rebuilt 
with renewed magnificence by Alexander the Great. 
It -svas plundered by the Goths, and later overthrown 
by an earthquake. It furnished much of the material 
for building the church of Santa Sophia (q. v.), and 
still its colossal ruins are the wonder of the antiquari- 
an. The temple of Apollo at Didymus, near Miletus, 
destroyed by the Persians B.C. 49G, and rebuilt B.C. 
390, w’as one of the edifices in which the Oriental or- 
igin of the Ionic order is most plainly seen. It was 
also one of the largest and most elegant temples of 
antiquity. The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus was so 
large and costly as to be reckoned among the wonders 
of the world. It was 410 feet long, had nearly *he 



GREECE 


979 


GREECE 


shape of an arc of a circle, anti was 140 feet high. 
Though built in a period when noble inspiration had 
left Grecian art, it was marked by an elegance of exe- 
cution that was not surpassed in any edifice erected 
during the history of Greek architecture. The chief 
works of Greek architecture in Africa were in Cyrene, 
and especially in Alexandria. In this city all the re- 
sources of a luxuriant architecture were called into 
requisition in the erection of every class of edifices 
that should adorn a new and gorgeous capital city. 

(For the literature upon Grecian architecture, see 
the article Architecture.) G. F. C. 

Greece ('E\X«e), properly the country in Europe 
inhabited by the Greek race (1 Macc. i, 1) ; but in Acts 
xx, 2, apparently designating only that part of it com- 
prising the Roman province of Macedonia (q. v.). 
See AVetstein, Nov. Test, ii, 590; Kruse, Hellas, i, 557. 
Compare Achaia. 

1. Greece is sometimes described as a country con- 
taining the four provinces of Macedonia, Epirus, Achaia 
or Hellas, and Peloponnesus, but more commonly the 
two latter alone are understood to be comprised in it. 
We will consider it as composed of Hellas and Pelo- 
ponnesus, though there seems to be no question that 
the four provinces were originally inhabited by peo- 
ple of similar language and origin, and whose relig- 
ion and manners were alike. Except upon its north- 
ern boundary it is surroundel on all sides by the sea, 
which intersects it in every direction, and naturally 
gives to its population seafaring habits. It is also a 
very mountainous country, abounding in eminences of 
great height, which branch out and intersect the land 
from its northern to its southern extremity, and form 
the natural limits of many of the provinces into which 
it is divided. At the isthmus of Corinth it is separated 
into its two great divisions, of which the northern was 
called Grcecia intra Peloponnesum, and the southern 
the Peloponnesus, now called the Morea. The moun- 
tain and sea are thus the grand natural characteristics 
of Greece, and had a very considerable influence on the 
character of its inhabitants, as is evidenced in the re- 
ligion, poetry, history, and manners of the people. The 
country has always been famous for the temperature 
of its climate, the salubrity of its air, and the fertility 
of its soil. 

The Greek nation had a broad division into two 
races, Dorians and Ionians, of whom the former seem 
to have long lain hid in continental parts, or on the 
western side of the country, and had a temperament 
and institutions more approaching the Italic. The 
Ionians, on the contrary, retained many Asiatic usages 
and tendencies, witnessing that they had never been 
so thoroughl}’- cut oft' as the Dorians from Oriental con- 
nection. When afterwards the Ionic colonies in Asia 
Minor rose to eminence, the Ionian race, in spite of the 
competition of the half Doric iEolians, continued to at- 
tract most attention in Asia. 

Of the history of Greece before the first recorded 
Olympiad, B.C. 770, little that can be depended upon 
is known. There is no doubt that from ver} r remote 
periods of antiquity, long prior to this date, the coun- 
try had been inhabited, but facts are so intermingled 
with legend and fable in the traditions which have 
come down to us of those ancient times, that it is im- 
possible with certainty to distinguish the false from 
the true (Grote, Hist, of Greece , pref. to vol. i). After 
its conquest by the Romans, B.C. 14G, Greece contin- 
ued for one thousand three hundred and fifty years to 
be either really or nominally a portion of the Roman 
empire. Literature and the arts, long on the decline, 
were at length destroyed by Justinian, who closed the 
schools of Athens. Alaric the Goth invaded the coun- 
try in the year 400, followed by Genseric and Zaber 
Khan in the sixth and seventh, and by the Normans 
in the eleventh century. After the Latin conquest of 
Constantinople in 1204, Greece was divided into feudal 
principalities, and governed by a variety of Roman, 


Venetian, and Frankish nobles; but in 12G1, with the 
exception of the dukedoms of Athens and Nauplia, and 
some portions of the Archipelago, it was reunited to 
the Constantinopolitan empire by Michael Palaeologus. 
In 1438 it w r as invaded by the Turks, who completed its 
conquest in 1481. The Venetians, however, were not 
disposed to allow its new masters quiet possession, and 
the countr 3 T during the sixteenth and seventeenth cen- 
turies was the theatre of obstinate wars, w hich contin- 
ued till the treaty of Passarovitz in 1718 confirmed 
the Turks in their conquest With the exception of 
Maina, the whole country remained under their despot- 
ic sway till 1821, when the Greeks once more aroused 
from their lethargy, and asserted their claim to a na- 
tional existence. The revolutionary struggle was con- 
tinued with varied success and much bloodshed till the 
great European powers interfered, and the battle of 
Navarino, in 1827, secured the independence of Greece, 
which was reluctantly acknowledged by the Porte in 
1829. In 1831 Greece was erected into an independent 
monarchy: it retains its classic name, and nearly its 
ancient limits, comprehending the Morea, or ancient 
Peloponnesus, south of the Gulf of Corinth, now Gulf 
of Lepanto, and the province of Livadia, or the ancient 
Grcecia propria , with part of Thessaly and Epirus, 
north of that gulf; besides the island of Negropont, 
the ancient Euboea, and other smaller islands in the 
Archipelago. The Republic of the Ionian Islands, 
Cephalonia, Zante, Corfu, and others on the western 
coast of Greece, is under the protection of Great Brit- 
ain.^ — Fairbairn, s. v. ; Bastow, s. v. 

2. The relations of the Hebrew's with the Greeks 
were ahvays of a distant kind until the Macedonian 
conquest of the East: hence in the Old Testament the 
mention of the Greeks is naturally rare. See Javan. 
It is possible that Moses may have derived some geo- 
graphical outlines from the Egyptians, but he does not 
use them in Gen. x, 2-5, wdiere he mentions the de- 
scendants of Javan as peopling the isles of the Gen- 
tiles. This is merely the vaguest possible indication 
of a geographical locality ; and yet it is not improba- 
ble that his Egyptian teachers were almost equally in 
the dark as to the position of a country which had not 
at that time arrived at a unity sufficiently imposing to 
arrest the attention of its neighbors. The amount 
and precision of the information possessed by Moses 
must be measured by the nature of the relation w hich 
we can conceive as existing in his time between Greece 
and Egypt. Now it appears from Herodotus that pri- 
or to the Trojan War the current of tradition, sacred 
and mythological, set from Egypt towards Greece; 
and the first quasi-historieal event which awakened 
the curiosity and stimulated the imagination of the 
Egyptian priests w r as the story of Paris and Helen 
(Herodotus, ii, 43, 51, 52, and 112). At the time of the 
Exodus, therefore, it is not likel}' that Greece had en- 
tered into any definite relation whatever with Egypt. 
Withdrawn from the sea-coast, and only gradually 
fighting their way to it during the period of the Judg- 
es, the Hebrews could have had no opportunity of form- 
ing connections with the Greeks. From the time of 
Moses to that of Joel we have no notice of the Greeks 
in the Hebrew waitings, except that which was con- 
tained in the word Javan (Gen. x, 2) ; and it does not 
seem probable that during this period the word had 
any peculiar significance for a Jew', except in so far 
as it w T as associated w ith the idea of islanders. AY hen, 
indeed, they came into contact with the Ionians of 
Asia Minor, and recognised them as the long-lost isl- 
anders of the AY r estem migration, it was natural that 
they should mark the similarity of sound between 
*p*' = , i'P and Tones , and the application of that name 
to the Asiatic Greeks would tend to satisfy in some 
measure a longing to realize the Mosaic ethnography. 
Accordingly, the O.-T. w'ord, which in the AWers. is 
Greece , Greeks , etc., is in Hebrew *jV, Javan (Joel iii f 


GREECE 


9 SO 


GREECE 



G; Dan. viii, 21): the Hebrew, however, is sometimes | 
retained (Isa. lxvi, ID; Ezek. xxvii, 13). In Gen. x, 1 
2 the Sept, has icai 'Itovav teat ’E\ara, with whieli Ko- 
senniiiller compares Herod, i, 5G-58, and professes to j 
discover the two elements of the Greek race. From 
’Itovav he gets the Ionian or Pelasgian, from ’EAirrd 
(for which lie supposes the Heb. original IT^SS*), the 
Hellenic element. This is excessively fanciful. See 
Elishaii. 

The Greeks and Hebrews met for the first time in 
the slave-market. The medium of communication 
seems to have been the Tyrian slave-merchant. About 
B.C. 800 Joel speaks of the Tyrians as selling the chil- 
dren of Judah to the Grecians (Joel iii, G); and in 
Ezek. xxvii, 13 the Greeks are mentioned as bartering 
their brazen vessels for slaves. On the other hand, 
Bochart says that the Greek slaves were highly val- 
ued throughout the East (Geogr. fine. pt. i, lib. iii, e. 3, 
p. 175); and it is probable that the Tyrians took ad- 
vantage of the calamities which befell either nation to 
sell them as slaves to the ot lifer. Abundant opportu- 
nities would be afforded by the attacks of the Lydian 


monarchy on the one people, and the Syrian on the 
other ; and it is certain that Tyre wculd let slip no oc- 
casion of replenishing her slave-market. See Tyre. 

Prophetical notice of Greece occurs in Dan. viii, 21, 
etc., where the history of Alexander and his success- 
ors is rapidly sketched. See Goat. Zeeliariah (ix, 
13) foretells the triumphs of the Maccabees against 
the Grmco-Svrinn empire, while Isaiah looks forward 
to the conversion of the Greeks, among other Gen- 
tiles, through the instrumentality of Jewish missiona- 
ries (lxvi, 10). For the connection between the Jews 
and the quasi-Greek kingdoms which sprang out of 
the divided empire of Alexander, see Antiooiius; 
Ptolemy. 

The presence of Alexander (q. v.) himself at Jeru- 
salem, and his respectful demeanor, are described by 
Josephus (Ant; xi, 8, 3) ; and some Jews are even said 
to have joined him in his expedition against Persia 
(llecat. ap. Joseph, c. Apion , ii, 4), as the Samaritans 
had already done in the siege of Tyre (Josephus, Ant. 
xi, 8, 4-G). In 1 Maee. xii, 5-23 (about B.C. 180), 
and Josephus, Ant . xii, 4, 10, wc have an account of 


GREECE 


981 


GREECE 


an embassy and letter sent by the Lacedaemonians to 
the Jews. The most remarkable feature in the trans- 
action is the claim which the Lacedaemonians prefer 
to kindred with the Jews, and which Areus professes 
to establish by reference to a book. It is by no means 
unlikely that two declining nations, the one crouching 
beneath a Graeco-Syrian invader, and the other beneath 
a Homan yoke, should draw together in face of the com- 
mon calamity; or we may with Jahn ( Heb . Comm . ix, 
91, note) regard the affair as a piece of pompous tri- 
fling or idle curiosity, at a period when “all nations 
were curious to ascertain their origin, and their rela- 
tionship to other nations.” See Onias. 

The notices of the Jewish people which occur in 
Greek writers have been collected by Josephus ( con- 
tra Apion , i, 22). The chief are Pythagoras, Herodo- 
tus, Choerilus, Aristotle, Theophrastus, and Hecattcus. 
The main drift of the argument of Josephus is to show 
that the Greek authors derived their materials from 
Jewish sources, or with more or less distinctness refer- 
red to Jewish history. For Pythagoras, he cites Her- 
mippus’s life; for Aristotle, Clearchus ; but it should 
be remembered that the Neo-Platonism of these au- 
thorities makes them comparatively worthless; that 
Hermippus, in particular, belongs to that Alexandrian 
school which made it its business to fuse the Hebrew 
traditions with the philosophy of Greece, and propiti- 
ate the genius of Orientalism by denying the merit of 
originality to the great and independent thinkers of 
the West. This style of thought was further devel- 
oped by lamblichus; and a very good specimen of it 
may be seen in Le Clerc’s notes on Grotius, De Verit . 
It has been ably and vehemently assailed by Ritter, 
J/ist. Phil. b. i, c. 3. Herodotus mentions the Syrians 
of Palestine as confessing that they derived the rite of 
circumcision from the Egyptians (ii, 104). Bahr, how- 
ever, does not think it likely that Herodotus visited 
the interior of Palestine, though he was acquainted 
with the sea-coast. (On the other hand, see Dahl- 
man, p. 55, 5G, Engl, transl.) It is almost impossible 
to suppose that Herodotus could have visited Jerusa- 
lem without giving us some more detailed account of 
it than the merely incidental notices in ii, 150, and iii, 
5, not to mention that the site of Kdonnc, or Cadjffis, 
is still a disputed question. The victory of Pharaoh- 
Necho over Josiah at Megiddo is recorded by Herodo- 
tus (comp. Herod, ii, 150 with 2 Kings xxiii, 29 sq. ; 2 
Chron. xxxv, 20 sq.). It is singular that Josephus 
should have omitted these references, and cited He- 
rodotus only as mentioning the rite of circumcision 
The work of Theophrastus cited is not extant ; he 
enumerates among other oaths that of Corban. Choe- 
rilus is supposed by Josephus to describe the Jews in 
a by no means flattering portrait of a people who ac- 
companied Xerxes in his expedition against Greece. 
The chief points of identification are their speaking 
the Phoenician language, and dwelling in the Solymean 
mountains , near a broad lake, which, according to Jo- 
sephus, was the Dead Sea. The Hecatams of Josephus 
is Hecataeus of Abdera, a contemporary of Alexander 
the Great, and of Ptolemy son of Lagus. The authen- 
ticity of the History of the Jews attributed to him by 
Josephus has been cafled in question by Origen and 
others. 

After the complete subjugation of the Greeks by the 
Romans, and the absorption into the Roman empire of 
the kingdoms which were formed out of the dominions 
of Alexander, the political connection between the 
Greeks and Jews as two independent nations no longer 
existed. — Smith, s. v. 

When a beginning had been made of preaching 
Christianity to the Gentiles, Greece immediately be- 
came a principal sphere for missionary exertion. The 
vernacular tongue of the Hellenistic Christians was 
understood over so large an extent of country as al- 
most of itself to point out in what direction they should 
exert themselves. The Grecian cities, whether in Eu- 


rope or Asia, were the peculiar field for Paul, for whose 
labors a superintending Providence had long before 
been providing in the large number of devout Greeks 
who attended the Jewish synagogues. Greece Proper 
was divided by the Romans into two provinces, of 
which the northern was called Macedonia, and the 
southern Achaia (as in 2 Cor ix, 2, etc.); and we learn 
incidentally from Acts xviii that the proconsul of the 
latter resided at Corinth. To determine the exact di- 
vision between the provinces is difficult, nor is the 
question of any importance to a Biblical student. 
Achaia, however, had probably very nearly the same 
frontier as the kingdom of modern Greece, which is 
limited by a line reaching from the gulf of Volo to that 
of Arta, in great part along the chain of Mount Othrys. 
Of the cities celebrated in Greek history, none are 
prominent in the early Christian times except Corinth. 
Laconia, and its chief town Sparta, had ceased to be 
of any importance : Athens was never eminent as a 
Christian church. In Macedonia were the two great 
cities of Philippi and Thessalonica (formerly called 
Therme) ; yet of these the former was rather recent, 
being founded by Philip the Great ; the latter was not 
distinguished above the other Grecian cities on the 
same coast. Nicopolis, on the gulf of Ambracia (or 
Arta), had been built by Augustus in memory of his 
victory at Actium, and was, perhaps, the limit of 
Achaia on the western coast (Tacitus, Annul, ii, 53). 
It had risen into some importance in Paul’s days, and, 
as many suppose, it is to this Nicopolis that he alludes 
in his epistle to Titus. See Nicopolis. 

8. Among the Greeks the arts of war and peace were 
carried to greater perfection than among any earlier 
people. In navigation they were little behind the 
Tyrians and Carthaginians ; in political foresight they 
equalled them; in military science, both by sea and 
land, they were decidedly their superiors ; while in the 
power of reconciling subject-foreigners to the conquer- 
ors and to their institutions, they perhaps surpassed all 
other nations of the world. Their copious, cultivated, 
and flexible tongue carried with it no small mental 
education to all who learned it thoroughly ; and so sa- 
gacious were the arrangements of the great Alexander 
throughout his rapidly acquired Asiatic empire, that 
in the twenty } r ears of dreadful war between his gen- 
erals which followed his death, no rising of the natives 
against Greek influence appears to have been thought 
of. Without any change of population adequate un- 
der other circumstances to effect it, the Greek tongue 
and Greek feeling spread far and sank deep through 
the Macedonian dominions. Half of Asia Minor be- 
came a new Greece, and the cities of Syria, North 
Palestine, and Egypt were deeply imbued with the 
same influence. See Greek Language. 

The Greeks were eminent for their appreciation of 
beauty in all its varieties ; indeed, their religious creed 
owed its shape mainly to this peculiarity of their mind, 
for their logical acuteness was not exercised on such 
subjects until quite a later period. The puerile or in- 
decent fables of the old mythology may seem to a mod- 
ern reader to have been the ver} T soul of their religion ; 
but to the Greek himself these were a mere accident, 
or a vehicle for some embodiment of beauty. What- 
ever the other varieties of Greek religious ceremonies, 
no violent or frenzied exhibitions arose out of the na- 
tional mind ; but all such orgies (as they were called) 
were imported from the East, and had much difficulty 
in establishing themselves on Greek soil. At quite a 
late period the managers of orgies were evidently re- 
garded as mere jugglers of not a very reputable kind 
(see Demosthenes, De Corona, § 79, p. 313) ; nor do the 
Greek states, as such, appear to have patronized them. 
On the contrary, the solemn religious processions, the 
sacred games and dances, formed a serious item in the 
public expenditure ; and to be permanently exiled from 
such spectacles would have been a moral death to the 
Greeks. Wherever they settled they introduced their 


982 


GREEK 


GREECE, KINGDOM OF 

native institutions, and reared temples, gymnasia, 
baths, porticoes, sepulchres, of characteristic simple 
elegance. The morality and the religion of such a 
people naturally •wore alike superficial ; nor did the 
two stand in any close union. Woody and cruel rites 
could find no place in their creed, because faith was 
not earnest enough to endure much self-abandonment. 
Religion was with them a sentiment and a taste rather 
than a deep-seated conviction. On the loss of beloved 
relatives they felt a tender and natural sorrow, but 
unclouded with a shade of anxiety concerning a future 
life. Through the whole of their later history, during 
Christian times, it is evident that they had little power 
of remorse, and little natural firmness of conscientious 
principle ; and, in fact, at an earlier and critical time, 
when the intellect of the nation was ripening, an atro- 
cious civil war, that lasted for twenty-seven years, in- 
dicted a political and social demoralization, from the 
effects of which they could never recover. Besides 
this, their very admiration of beauty, coupled with the 
degraded state of the female intellect, proved a fright- 
ful source of corruption, such as no philosophy could 
have adequately checked. — Kitto, s. v. (Works ex- 
pressly on Grecian mythology have been written by 
Le Clerc, 1787; Kanne, 1805; Limmer, 1800; Hug, 
1812; Volcker, 1824; Buttmann, 1828 ; Studer, 1830 ; 
Krische, 1840; Stuhr, 1838; Limbnrg-Brouwer, 1833.) 
See Greek. 

Greece, Kingdom of, a conntry in south-east- 
ern Europe, established in 1832 by a successful rising 
of the people against the rule of the Turks, to which 
they had been subject since the fall of the Byzantine 
empire. The kingdom was enlarged in 1803 by the 
annexation of the Ionian Islands, which until then bad 
been subject to the sovereignty of Great Britain. The 
total area in 1809 amounted to 19,353 square miles, 
the total population in 1801 to 1,348,412, and in 1804 
to about 1,400,000. 

The great majority of the people of Greece belong 
to the Greek Church (q. v.), which is in Greece (since 
1833) independent of the patriarch of Constantinople, 
and constitutes a national Church, which the patriarch 
recognised in 1850 by the so-called Tomos. The su- 
preme management of ecclesiastical affairs is in the 
hands of a Holy Synod, consisting of five bishops and 
an officer of the government. At the beginning of 
the revolution the higher clergy consisted of 20 me- 
tropolitans, 2 archbishops, and 19 bishops; in 18G9 there 
were 11 archbishops, 4 metropolitans, and 1G bishops. 
The number of male monasteries was, on the advent of 
the regency which was established after the expulsion 
of the Turks, about 400, and the number of nunneries 
from 30 to 40, together with about 800 inmates ; in 
18G9 there were 128 monasteries of monks and 4 nun- 
neries, the former with 1500, the latter with 150 inhab- 
itants. There are about 2905 parish churches, with 
3200 priests. The secular clergy and the monks are 
generally hut little educated, but enjoy, nevertheless, 
great respect among the people, the majority of whom 
are firmly attached to their Church. For the ortho- 
dox Greek Church there are 4 archbishops in Liva- 
dia(Chalcis and Euboea, iEtolia and Acarnania, Phthi- 
otis, the metropolitan see of Athens, Megara and yEgi- 
na), with 4 bishops ; in the Morea, G archbishops (Argo- 
lis, Corinth, Patras and Elis, Mantinea and Cynuria, 
Messenia, Sparta and Monem basin) and G bishops; in 
the Archipelago, 1 archbishop (Syros and Tynos) and 
3 bishops; in the Ionian Islands, 4 metropolitans and 
3 bishops. The Roman Catholics, who arc mostly the 
descendants of families which immigrated at. the time 
of the Crusades and during the rule of the Venetians, 
number about 25,000, chiefly in the islands, and have 
two archbishops — at Naxos and Corfu — and 4 bishops. 
There are a few thousand Mohammedans in Euboea, 
and a few hundred Protestants jind Jews in the com- 
mercial towns. 

The labors of Protestant missionaries began in 1828, 


and have ever since been carried on without intermis- 
sion. The American Board of Missions, the Episcopal 
Board, and Baptist Board were all concerned in the 
work. The Episcopal Board began its operations in 
1829, when it sent out Messrs. Robertson and Hill. 
These gentlemen, in the outset, started out upon the 
conciliatory course, under the impression that the 
Greek Church would be freed from its evils by liberal 
education. On this account they devoted themselves 
entirety to education, allowing a priest in their schools 
to teach the Greek Catechism. The American Board 
of Missions sent out the Rev. Dr. King in 1828, and he, 
too, opened schools for boys and girls at Athens, and 
also paid great attention to education, but only used it 
as a means to the preaching of the Gospel. In 1835 
the representative of the American Board assisted in 
the establishment of the first college in Greece which 
was started under government assistance. Soon after 
this three other missionaries arrived in Greece, who 
opened schools in the mountains. In 1841, suddenty, 
and without any apparent provocation, the Church 
party made war against missionary operations, and at- 
tempted to extinguish the Gospel light. These perse- 
cutions ended in the banishment of Dr. King from the 
country. This action became the means of introduc- 
ing the native element into the work. Dr. Kalopo- 
thakes, who had become acquainted with Protestant- 
ism in one of the schools of Dr. King, and who had 
subsequently spent four years in the United States to 
prepare for missionary work in his country, started in 
Athens a religious newspaper, the Star of the East. 
In 18G4, when Dr. King (who had helped Dr. Kalopo- 
thakes in all his troubles) returned to America, the 
paper passed entirely into the hands of Dr. Kalopo- 
thakes and his companion, a Mr. Constantine; and 
when, in 1868, Dr. King again went to Greece, he found 
the paper prospering, and two regular Church serv- 
ices carried on every Sabbath in Athens. In 18G9, 
Dr. Kalopothakes and Mr. Constantine published a 
daily paper, a weekly paper, and a children’s paper, 
and also a number of cheap religious books. One of 
the chief results of the Protestant mission has been the 
increased circulation of the Bible, which is proved by 
the fact that in 1859, when Dr. Kalopothakes first open- 
ed the Bible depot at Athens* he did not sell 100 copies 
of the New Testament, whereas in 1868 he disposed of 
3000. 

Popular education has made considerable progress 
since the establishment of independence. There were 
750 primary schools in 185G ; 93 pro-gvinnasia or Hel- 
lenic schools, with 1G5 teachers and 4990 pupils; 11 
gymnasia (organized after the model of those of Ger- 
many), with 07 teachers and 1180 pupils ; an ecclesias- 
tical (“Rhisari”) seminary, and a national university 
established in 1837, with a library of more than 80,000 
volumes, an observatory, and botanical garden. See 
Wiggers, Kirchl. Statistik , i, 179 sq., 207 sq. (A. J. S.) 

Greek, a term not found in the A.V. of the O. T., 
where either Javan is retained, or, as in Joel iii, G, the 
word is rendered by Grecian. In Maccabees Greeks 
and Grecians seem to be used indifferently (eemp. 1 
Mace, i, 10; vi, 2; also 2 Mace, iv, 10, Gnekisli). In 
the N. T., on the other hand, a distinction is observed, 
"llWijV being rendered “Greek,” and ' KWijviariiQ 
“Grecian.” The difference of the English termina- 
tions, however, is not sufficient to convey the differ- 
ence of meanings. (See Overkamp, De distinctione in- 
ter Juelfros et Greecos, et inter Grerc. et barharos, Gryj h. 
1782 ; Amnell, Hellas e N. T. illustrata , Upsal. 1752.) 

v in the N. T. is either a Greek by race, as in 
Acts xvi, 1-3; xviii,17; Rom. i, 14; or more frequent- 
ly a Gentile , as opposed to a Jew (Rom. ii, 9, 10, etc.) ; 
so fern. 'EXXj/mV, Mark vii, 2G; Acts xvii, 12. ‘EXX?/- 

viariiQ (properly “ one who speaks Greek”) is a for- 
eign Jew; opposed, therefore, not to To?»£«ioc, hut to 
'EjcWTor, a home-Jew, one who dwelt in Palestine. 
So Schleusner, etc. : according to Salmasius, however. 


GREEK CHURCH 


983 


GREEK CHURCH 


the Hellenists were Greek proselytes, who had become 
Christians; so Wolf, Parkhurst, etc., arguing from 
Acts xi, 20, where 'EXXi/riffrai are contrasted with 
TouJaToi in 19. The question resolves itself parity 
into a textual one, Griesbach having adopted the read- 
ing "EW ijvag t and so also Lachmann, Tischendorf, and 
others.— Smith, s. v. See Hellenist. 

Greek Church, the name usually given to the 
largest branch of the Oriental or Eastern churches (q. 
v.). It comprehends all those Christians following 
the Greek or the Graeco-Slavonian rite, who receive 
the first seven general councils, but reject the author- 
ity of the Roman pontiff and the later councils of the 
Western Church. See Councils. The title “ Greek 
Church” is hardly an appropriate one. A “commu- 
nion embracing several other nations and languages 
besides the Greek, each performing divine worship in 
its own tongue, and in which, out of sixty-six millions 
of Christians, perhaps fifty-nine millions are Slavoni- 
ans, and pray in the Slavonic tongue, cannot property 
be called Greek merety because its ritual is derived in 
great measure (by no means exclusively) from Greek 
sources, and because it was once united with the Gra- 
co-Roman empire” (Palmer, Dissertations , p. 5). The 
Church calls itself the “Holy Orthodox Catholic and 
Apostolic Church.” The Greek Church has not, like 
the Roman Catholic Church, one head, but consists of 
eleven different groups, w hich, in point of administra- 
tion, are independent of each other (see below, Statis- 
tics'), though they fully agree in point of doctrine. 

I. History. — The proper history of the Greek Church 
as a separate bod} 7 begins with the interruption of ec- 
clesiastical communion between the pope and the pa- 
triarch of Constantinople. After the establishment 
of the imperial residence at Constantinople, it was the 
natural ambition of both the bishops of Constantinople 
and the emperors to enlarge the authority and prerog- 
atives of the see of Constantinople (q. v.). In 381 the 
first (Ecumenical Council of Constantinople gave to 
the bishops of Constantinople, because it was the New 
Rome ( Sib to tivai avr>)v viav 'Pw/oty), the “prece- 
dence of honor” next after those of ancient Rome. The 
canon was not recognised by the churches of Rome and 
Alexandria, but the authority of the bishop of the impe- 
rial residence naturally rose, and in 451 the Council of 
Chalcedon not only confirmed the precedence already 
given, but placed under his jurisdiction the dioceses of 
Thrace, Asia, and Pontus, and grounded these ecclesias- 
tical privileges, in the case of the new as well as the old 
Rome, upon the political distinction of the two cities. 
The Roman legates protested against this canon, and 
pope Leo the Great did not recognise it, but when the 
empire was divided, the patriarch gradually acquired 
a kind of superiority over the other three patriarchs 
of the East, and assumed the title of (Ecumenical Pa- 
triarch. The support given by patriarch Acacius of 
Constantinople (471-489) to the Henoticon (q. v.) led 
in 484 to the excommunication of Acacius, together 
with the emperor and the patriarch of Alexandria, by 
pope Felix III, who also charged him with encroach- 
ing upon the rights of the patriarchs of Antioch and 
Jerusalem. For thirty-five years (484-519) the com- 
munion between Constantinople and Rome remained 
interrupted, most of the Eastern bishops siding with 
Acacius, while those of Illyria, bishop Kalandion of 
Antioch, and the convents in the vicinity of Constan- 
tinople, ranged themselves on the side of the pope. 
The withdrawal of the excommunication hy pope Hor- 
misdas involved a complete acknowledgment of the 
supremacy of the Roman pontiff, but the rivalry of the 
patriarchs of Constantinople continued, and pope Greg- 
ory the Great in vain endeavored to prevail upon the 
pious John the Faster of Constantinople to relinquish 
the title (Ecumenical Patriarch. The antagonism of 
the Uvo churches was increased by the support which 
several of the patriarchs of Constantinople gave to 
the iconoclast emperors, and by the complete political 


separation between the East and the West. When 
Photius, after ascending the patriarchal sec, could not 
obtain the recognition of pope Nicholas, he excommu- 
nicated the pope, and arraigned the w hole Latin Church 
for her doctrine of the twofold procession of the Holy 
Ghost and the addition of “ Filivque" (q. v.) to the 
creed, for the practice of clerical celibacy, and for de- 
nying to priests the pow'er of administering confirma- 
tion. As the rival of Photius for the see of Constanti- 
nople, Ignatius, was a declared partisan of the pope 
and the Latins, the struggle for the possession of the 
see greatly added to the animosity of the party of Pho- 
tius against the whole Latin Church. After the death 
of the emperor Michael III, Ignatius was restored to 
the see, and a council at Constantinople under his 
presidency, which by the Latins is accounted as the 
eighth oecumenical council, established in 869 the 
union between the two churches. After the death of 
Ignatius in 877, Photius again became patriarch. A 
council held by him in 879 repealed the decisions of 
the Council of 869. The papal legates w T ere induced 
by Photius to approve the acts of this council, which 
the Greek Church numbers among the oecumenical, 
but pope John rejected it, and excommunicated Pho- 
tius anew 7 . In 886 Photius w r as exiled by the emperor 
Leo IV, and his successor, Stephen, accepted the de- 
mands of the pope. Peace between the tw r o churches 
was preserved until the middle of the 13th century, 
when Michael Cernlarius (q. v.) was, though a layman, 
elected patriarch, contrary to the canons of the Council 
of 869, w'hich forbade the election of laymen to this 
dignity. Cerularius, in union with bishop Leo of 
Achrida, the metropolitan of Bulgaria, wTOte a letter 
to bishop John of Trani, in Apulia, who was asked to 
communicate it to the bishops and priests of the Franks 
and to the pope. Besides the points of difference al- 
leged by Photius, the letter of Cerularius reproached 
the Latins for the use of unlgavened bread in the Eu- 
charist, for fasting on Saturday, and for not singing 
Hallelujah during Lent. Cardinal Humbert gave a 
Latin translation of the letter to pope Leo IX. The 
pope wrote two letters against Cerularius, which in 
1054 were taken to Constantinople by archbishop Pe- 
trus of Amalfi, the chancellor Frederick, and Cardinal 
Humbert. They charged Cerularius especially wdth 
the design to establish a jurisdiction over the patri- 
archs of Alexandria and Antioch, and to make him- 
self the oecumenical patriarch of the entire Greek 
Church. Cardinal Humbert added a third letter, in 
w hich he charged the Greeks with rebaptizing the Lat- 
ins, with allowing to the priests the use of marriage 
during the days of their service at the altar, with not 
baptizing their children until the eighth day after 
their birth, and other similar points. The emperor 
Constantine Monomachos, who, from political reasons, 
was opposed to a schism, had the letter of Humbert 
translated into Greek. The monk Niketas (Pectora- 
tus), who wrote a violent refutation of Humbert, was 
compelled to retract, but Cerularius remained firm in 
his opposition, and in July, 1054, was solemnly excom- 
municated by the papal legates. With the support of 
the emperor, whom he gained over to his side, Ceru- 
larius maintained his authority until, in 1059, he was 
exiled by the emperor Isaac Comnenus. He died soon 
after. 

But the exile of Cerularius did not restore the union 
of the churches. On the contrary, from this time the 
separation struck deeper root among the people of the 
East. Some of the emperors were favorable to a re- 
union in order to procure political aid from the pope 
and the Latin princes ; but their efforts met only with 
temporary success. Thus, in 1095, ambassadors of 
the emperor Alexius Comnenus appeared, suppliant 
for aid, at the Council of Piacenza, and pope Urban, 
to restore a union, held in 1097 a council at Bari, in 
Apulia. In 1201 pope Innocent III induced the Greek 
emperor Alexius and the patriarch of Constantinople, 


GREEK CHURCH 


984 


GREEK CHURCH 


John Lomaterus, to enter into a union with Rome. At 
the Council of Lyons, 1217, delegates from the Greek 
Church were present, and they, as well as the emperor 
Michael Palaeologus, declared in favor of union. Rut 
the son and successor of Michael, Andronicus, was a 
decided opponent of the union, and imprisoned the pa- 
triarch, who supported it. The emperor John Pahuo- 
logns II, and the patriarchs Philotheos of Constantino- 
ple (1363-1376), Niphon of Alexandria, and Lazar of 
Jerusalem, also re-entered into communion with Rome, 
and sent to pope Clement VI their profession of faith. 
At the (Ecumenical Council of Ferrara, which began 
in January, 1*438, the emperor John Palmologus VI, his 
brother, the patriarch of Constantinople, representa- 
tives of the three other patriarchs, many bishops, 
priests, and officers, and altogether some 700 Greeks 
and Orientals, were present. After a long discussion 
of the points of difference, the decree of union was, on 
July 5, 1439, signed by the pope, the Greek emperor, 
the cardinals, the patriarchs and bishops of both 
churches, with the sole exception of the bishop Mar- 
kos Eugcnikos of Ephesus. See Ferrara; Flor- 
ence. Rut this union was short-lived. On the return 
of the Eastern bishops to their homes, their action was 
repudiated by the large body of the priests, monks, 
and people. The great majority of the bishops them- 
selves yielded to the public pressure and renounced 
the union, and soon after, in 1453, the fall of Constan- 
tinople obliterated every trace of the attempted recon- 
ciliation. The patriarchs of Alexandria, Antioch, and 
Jerusalem declared in 1460 their readiness to accept 
the union, but, as usual, this declaration bore no prac- 
tical fruit. Many attempts to effect a general union 
have since been made, but without effect. Only small 
bodies of Greeks, especially through the influence of 
the Catholic irovernment of Poland, have entered into 
and remained in union with Rome, receiving from the 
popes permission to retain the use of the Greek language 
at divine service, and some other peculiarities of the 
Greek Church. See United Greek Ciiurcii. Pope 
Pius IX, on ascending the papal see, invited the bish- 
ops of the Greek Church, in a circular letter addressed 
to them, to re-enter into the union with Rome. The 
Greek bishops replied by a letter, setting forth their 
reasons for not complying with the invitation. In 
1868 the pope invited the Greek bishops individually 
to attend the coming council, but this invitation also 
was declined by every bishop. 

The Greek Church comprised within its ancient 
limits, anterior to the Mohammedan conquests, Greece 
properly so called, the Peloponnesus, Eastern lllyri- 
cuin, the Islands, and Asia Minor, as also Syria and 
Palestine, Arabia, Egypt, and parts of Mesopotamia 
and Persia. Iler territory in Asia and Africa was in 
the course of time almost wholly lost in consequence 
of the advance of the Mohammedans, and with the fall 
of Constantinople in the 15th century nearly all the 
ancient sees of the Church in Europe came likewise 
under the rule of a Mohammedan government. Other 
portions became subject to the Catholic governments 
of Austria and Poland, leaving only one single .gov- 
ernment, that of Russia, as the protector of the inter- 
ests of the Greek Church. In Austria and Poland the 
Greek Church suffered some losses in consequence of 
the efforts of the governments of those two countries 
to induce the Greek bishops to accept the supremacy 
of the pope. In European Turkey the Church main- 
tained, on the whole, her ground, as the Turks, though 
oppressing them in many ways, did not deny them re- 
ligious toleration. More than from the Turkish gov- 
ernment, the Greek Church in Turkey suffered from 
internal corruption, especially from the simony pre- 
vailing in the appointments to episcopal secs and other 
ecclesiastical positions. See Turkey. 

While the territory of the Greek Church in Africa, 
Asia, and South-eastern Europe was greatly reduced 
hv the advance of Mohammedanism, it received a most 


important increase by the conversion of the Russians. 
The first missionaries were sent to this people Loni 
Constantinople in the 9th century. In 955, princess 
Olga, the saint, was baptized at Constantinople, and in 
956 the first Christian church was built at Kief. Vla- 
dimir, at the close of the 10th century, was especially 
eager for the suppression and destruction of pagan- 
ism. The first attempt to sever the connection of the 
Russian Church with the patriarch of Contantincple 
was made by Yaroslav I, who, in 1051, commanded 
the Russian bishops to elect the new metropolitan of 
Kief without the co-operation of the patriarch. His 
successors, how r ever, again conceded to the patriarch 
the right of appointing the metropolitan of Kief. In 
1164 the patriarch of Constantinople sent a new metro- 
politan to Kief without even asking for the consent of 
the prince; but prince Rostislav, though willing to ac- 
cept the metropolitan for once, declared that in future 
the election of the metropolitan would require the 
sanction at least of the government. Negotiations of 
the princes of Russia and the metropolitans of Kief 
Avitli the pope for a union of the Russian Church with 
Rome began in the 11th century. Some of them, in 
particular several princes of the Russinians and liuthe- 
nians in Galicia, and the metropolitan Isidore, who 
took part in the Conncil of Florence, really joined the 
union, but among the mass of the people and clergy it 
never gained ground. In 1588 the metropolitan Job 
of Moscow was consecrated by the patriarch of Con- 
stantinople the first patriarch of Russia, and was rec- 
ognised by the other Oriental patriarchs as the fifth 
patriarch of the orthodox Church. At the close of 
the 16th century an attempt was made to establish a 
union between the Russian Church and those of 
Georgia and Armenia, but it failed in consequence of 
the intolerance of the Russian patriarch. The atti- 
tude of the patriarch towards the metropolitan of Kief 
induced the latter, with a number of other bishops of 
South Russia, and a population of about ten millions, 
to enter in 1594, at the Council of Rrzesk, into com- 
munion with Rome. The breach between the Rus- 
sians and the Church of Rome was greatly widened 
by the elevation of the house of Romanoff to the throne 
and by the consolidation of the Russian nationality in its 
hereditary struggle against Catholic Poland. In 1G57 
and the three following years the Russian ambassador 
in Constantinople obtained from the patriarchs of Con- 
stantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, and Jerusalem an 
official recognition of the right of Russia to have the 
patriarchs of Russia elected by the Russian clergy, 
without obtaining the previous sanction of the Ori- 
ental patriarchs. After the death of the eleventh Rus- 
sian patriarch in 1702, Peter the Great left the pa- 
triarchal sec vacant, and in 1721 put the administra- 
tion of the Church in the hands of a board of bishops 
called the Holy Synod. Since then the Church of 
Russia has been eminently a state church. Though 
in doctrinal union with the other branches of the 
Greek Church, it is, in point of ecclesiastical adminis- 
tration, entirely unconnected with them. At home it 
has been unable to prevent the growth of numerous 
dissenting sects; but the rapid growth of the Russian 
empire has made it not only by far the most numerous 
and important branch of the Greek Church in the 
present age, but the largest state church in the Chris- 
tian world. (For a fuller account of the inner history 
of the Church, see Russia.) 

The establishment of the independence of the Hel- 
lenic kingdom at the beginning of the present century 
created another independent Greek state church. In 
1833, the regency of Greece, at the request of thirty- 
six metropolitans, declared the orthodox Oriental 
Church of Greece independent of every foreign eccle- 
siastical authority, .and, after the model of the Russian 
Church, organized for the administration of the Church 
a “ Holy Synod.” This independent constitution was 
recognised by the patriarch of Constantinople in 1850. 


GREEK CHURCH 


OSS 


GREEK CHURCH 


(For a fuller account of this branch of the Greek | 
Church, see Greece.) i 

The Reformed Churches 'which arose in the lGth | 
century made also several attempts ro establish an ; 
understanding with the Greek Church. The Augs- 
burg Confession and Luther’s Smaller Catechism were 
translated into Greek, and, very early after the Refor- 
mation, a letter was addressed by Melancthon to the 
patriarch Joseph of Constantinople through a deacon 
Demetrius Mysus, who visited Germany in 1558. An- 
other Lutheran embassy of a more imposing charac- 
ter, headed by the well-known Tubingen divines An- 
dreas and Crusius, visited Constantinople during the 
patriarchate of Jeremias (157G to 1581). But both mis- 
sions remained without result. Negotiations with the 
Reformed Churches were opened by the patriarch Cy- 
ril Lukaris, who in 1629 issued a decidedly Calvinistic 
confession of faith. But he was not only unable to 
carry his Church with him, but was himself deposed 
and imprisoned ; and, to cut off future attempts of this 
kind, a doctrinal declaration was signed by the patri- 
archs of Constantinople, Alexandria, and Antioch, and 
many metropolitans and bishops, which, by clear and 
decided definitions, draws a marked line between the 
Greek and the Reformed Church. See Cyril Lucar. 
This exposition was generally adopted by the churches, 
and in a synod held in Jerusalem in 1G72 it was adopt- 
ed as the creed of the Greek Church. (See below,) 

Several efforts have also been made by the Anglican 
churches to enter into intercommunion with the Greek 
Church, which during the last ten years have received 
the official indorsement of the English convocations 
and of the General Convention of the Protestant Epis- 
copal Church of the United States. The plan has 
found many friends even among bishops of the Greek 
Church, some of whom are members and patrons of a 
Society for Promoting the Unity of Christendom [see 
England], which comprises Anglicans. Roman Catho- 
lics, and Oriental Christians among its members. 

1L Doctrine. — The Greek Church, in common with 
the Roman Catholic, recognises the infallible authori- 
ty of the first seven councils. Its particular doctrines 
are laid down in a number of confessions of faith, 
among which the most important are, the Confession 
of patriarch Gennadius (q. v.), and the Covfessio ortho- 
d>xa catholicee atqiie apostollcce ecclesice orientalis of Pe- 
trus Mogilas, metropolitan of Kief, which in 1642 was 
sanctioned hy a synod at Yassy, in 1G48 signed by all 
the patriarchs, and in 1G72 again sanctioned hy a syn- 
od at Jerusalem, and declared to be an authentic exhi- 
bition of the doctrine of the Church. 

The Greeks agree with the Roman Catholics in ac- 
cepting as the rule of faith not alone the Bible, in- 
cluding the Deutero-eanonieal books, but also the tradi- 
tions (q. v.) of the Church. They deny the procession 
of the Holy Ghost from the Son [see Filioque], and 
reject the papal claim to supremacy and doctrinal au- 
thority. They admit the seven sacraments of the Ro- 
man Catholic Church, but differ in some of the rites 
used at their administration. They administer baptism 
by trine immersion, and confirmation in immediate 
connection with baptism, even in the case of infants. 
The right of administering confirmation is conceded to 
priests as -well as to bishops. They administer the 
communion in both kinds, and even to children. (For 
their peculiarities in the sacraments of extreme unc- 
tion and priestly orders, see Extreme Unction and 
Orders.) They forbid marriage altogether to bish- 
ops ; priests and deacons are forbidden to contract mar- 
riage after ordination, and must not have been mar- 
ried more than once, nor to a widow. Married priests 
must live separate from their wives during the time 
when they are actually engaged in Church service. 
They regard marriage as dissoluble in case of adulte- 
ry, and regard fourth marriages as utterly unlawful. 
They do not permit the use of graven images, with 
the exception of that of the cross. The}' observe four 


great fasts : the forty days of Lent, from Pentecost to 
the Feast of Sts. Peter and Paul, the fifteen days be- 
fore Assumption Day, and the six weeks before Christ- 
mas ; and, besides, the Wednesdays and Fridays 
throughout the } T ear are fast days. At divine service 
they generally use the liturgy of St. Chrysostom, and 
on certain Sundays and festivals that of St. Basil. 
The liturgy of the Russian Church is in the Old Slav- 
ic language ; that of the Church in the kingdom of 
Greece, in modern Greek ; that of the Church of Geor- 
gia, in the Old Georgian language. Instrumental mu- 
sic is forbidden, but singing is universally in use. The 
ordinar} r posture in public prayer is standing, the body 
being turned towards the east; only at Pentecost is 
kneeling in use. The sign of the cross is in more fre- 
quent use among them than in the Roman Catholic 
Church, but in a different form. The preaching of 
sermons is not common ; general ty a homily is read 
from ancient collections. Corresponding to the brev- 
iary of the Latin Church is the Horologion, which con- 
tains prayers for different hours of divine worship, 
a complete calendar (Menologion), and different ap- 
pendixes for worship. Festivals peculiar to the Greek 
Church are the consecration of water on January G (Old 
Style) in commemoration of the baptism of Jesus in 
the Jordan, and the orthodox Sunday (. Estomihi ), with a 
litany anathematizing heretics and in honor of the im- 
perial patrons, the prelates, and martyrs of the Church. 

III. Constitution and Statistics. — The constitution of 
the Greek Church is, in many respects, similar to that 
of the Roman Catholic Church. They reject the claims 
of the pope to a supremacy over the whole Church, 
and are only willing to recognise him as the patriarch 
of one great section of the Church. The higher clergy 
(Archiereis) are the patriarchs, archbishops, and bish- 
ops, who have to live in celibacy ; the lower clergy are 
divided into the regular clergy (monks ; also called, 
from the color of their dress, the black clergy) and the 
secular clergy (also called, in opposition to the regu- 
lars, the white clergy , although their dress is, in fact, 
often of a brown, violet, or other color). 

In point of ecclesiastical organization, the Greek 
Church consisted in 18G9 of eleven groups, which were 
more or less independent of each other, namely, 1. The 
patriarchate of Jerusalem, which has 18 sees (metropo- 
litan and 1 archiepiseopal). 2. The patriarchate of 
Antioch, with G metropolitan sees. 3. The patriar- 
chate of Alexandria : it has 4 metropolitan sees. 4. 
The patriarchate of Constantinople, which has 135 sees 
(90 metropolitan and 4 archiepiseopal). 5. The pa- 
triarchate of Russia, which has G5 sees (5 metropoli- 
tan, 25 archiepiseopal). 6. Cyprus, 4 sees (of which 1 
is archiepiseopal). 7. Austria, 11 sees (2 metropoli- 
tan). 8. Mount Sinai, 1 see. 9. Montenegro, 1 metro- 
politan see. 10. Greece, 31 sees (the archbishop of 
Athens is ex officio president of the Holy Synod). 11. 
Rumania, 4 bishops in Wallachia and 3 in Moldavia. 
The people of Servia and those of Bulgaria desire for 
their bishops a similar independence of Constantinople. 

The statistics of the Greek Church, reported in 1867, 
were as follows : 

Russia (in Europe, 51,000,000 ; Siberia, 2,000, 000 ; 

Caucasus [total population, 4,257,000] not repoit- 

ed); total about 55,000,000 

, Turkey (inclusive of the dependencies in Europe 

and Egypt), about 11,500,000 

A ustria 2,021,000 

Greece (inclusive of Ionian Islands) 1,220,000 

United States of America (chiefly in the territory 

purchased in 1SG7 from Russia) 50,000 

Prussia - 1,500 

China 200 

Total 00,602,700 

For fuller information on the several branches of the 
Church, see the articles Russia; Turkey; Greece; 
Austria. 

See Ilerzog, Real-Encyklopddie , v, 368 ; Le Quien, 
Oriens Christianus (Paris, 1740, 3 vols.); Heineccius 


GREEK LANGUAGE 


GREEK CHURCH. UNITED 08 G 


Abbildung der (dim mid neuen griech. Kirche (Leipsic, 
1711); Picuut, Ilist. de I'rtnt present de l eglise grecnue 
et de V eglise arnienienne (Mittelb. 1032) ; Schmitt, Ge- 
schickie der neugriech. imd der russisiken Kirche (Mentz, 
1840) : Straiil, Geschichte d. russ. Kirche (Hallo, 1830) ; 
Wimmer, Die griech . Kirche in Russ land (Leips. 1848) ; 
Pichler, Geschichte der kirchl. Trennung zirischen deni 
Orient nnddem Occident ran den ersten A n fan gen bis zur 
jungsten Gegenwart (Munich, 1804-8, 2 vols.), and Die 
oriental. Kirchivfrage (Munich, 1802) ; Stanley, The 
Eastern Church (Loud. 18G7); King, The Rites of the 
Greek Church in Russia (Lond. 1722); Stourdza, Con- 
siderations sur la doctiine ei V esprit de V eglise orthodoxe 
(Weimar, 181 6) ; Mouraviet, Brief e fiber den Gottesdienst 
der Morgenldnd Kirche (Germ, transl. by Muralt, Lpz. 
1838) ; Dolgorukof, La verite sur la Russie (Par. I860) ; 
The Black and the White Clergy in Russia (in the Rus- 
sian language, Lpz. 1867 ; extracts in Preussische Jahr- 
bucher , Sept, and Oct. 18G7) ; Ffoulkes, Christendom' s 
Divisions (London, 18G7, 2 vols.); V Eglise Orthodoxe 
d' Orient (Athens, 1853) ; Neale, Hist, of the Holy Eastern 
Church (London, 1857 sq.) ; Stud. u. Krit. 18G4, i. ; Am. 
Presb. Rev. Oct.1868, and Jan. 18G9; Wesleyan M. Mag. 
July, 1855 ; Christ. Rememb. 1861 ; Princeton Rep. Oct. 
18G6; Meth. Quart. Rev. July, 1867; Journal Sacred Lit. 
xxi ; Bibl. Sacra, Oct. 1864; Schem, American Eccles. 
Almanac for 1869 (N. Y. 1860). (A. J. S.) 

Greek Churcli, United. This is the name of 
those Christians who, while following the Greek rite, 
observing the general discipline of the Greek Church, 
and making use of the Greek liturgy, are yet united 
with the Church of Pome, admitting the double pro- 
cession of the Spirit and the supremacy of the Roman 
pon iff, and accepting all the doctrinal decisions subse- 
quent to the Greek schism which have force as articles 
of faith in the Roman Church. They have been al- 
lowed by the pope the same law of celibacy as among 
the other Greeks: They are also permitted to admin- 
ister communion under both kinds. The United Greeks 
are found chiefly in Southern Italy, in the Austrian do- 
minion, in Poland, in the Russian empire, and in Tur- 
key. In Italy they are computed at 80,000; in Aus- 
tria at about 4,000,000; and in Poland about 250,000. 
In Russia it is difficult to ascertain what their number 
is. As regards nationalities in Austria, they are di- 
vided into Rumanians and Ruthenians — the former 
being settled in Wallachia, Transylvania, and Eastern 
Hungary, the latter in Little Russia, Galicia, and 
North-eastern Hungary. The union of the Greek 
Christians of Wallachia and Transylvania dates from 
the end of the 12th century. The union of the Gali- 
cian Greeks or Ruthenians is of much later date, about 
the close of the 17th century. The United Greeks, in 
1868, had in Austria two archbishops, one for the Ru- 
manian rite at Fogaras (with suffragan bishops at Sza- 
mos-Ujvar, Gran Wardein, and Lagos), and one for the 
Ruthenian rite at Lemberg (with bishops at Fremizl, 
Kreuz, Eperies, and Mankacz). In Russia there is one 
bishop at Chelin. In European Turkey there is one 
bishop in Bulgaria ; a patriarch in Antioch ; three 
archbishops at Damascus, Emesa, and Tyre, and bish- 
ops at Aleppo, Beyroot, Bosra, Balbeck, Farzul, Jeru- 
salem, Ilauran, and Sidon. See Annuario Pontijicio 
for I860. (A. J. S.) 

Greekish (' EWyiaKoi Hellenic ), another term (2 
Macc. iv, 10) for Greek (q. v.). 

Greek Language, Biblical Relations of 
the. In treating of the peculiarities of the Greek 
found in the Sept, and N. T., we here substantially 
adopt I)r. Donaldson’s article in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia, s. 
v. The affinities between the Greek and the other 
branches of the Indo-Gormanic family are copioush r 
drawn out by Bopp, Comparative Grammar , etc. (Lond. 
I860, 3 vols. 8 vo, 2d edit, trans. by Eastwick from the 
Genn.). For its coincidences with the Hebrew, see 
Philology, Comparative. 


I. Historical Character . — There has been much dis- 
cussion as to the peculiar nature of the language used 
by the Septuagint translators and by the writers of 
the N. T. It would be useless to attempt to give an 
account of these discussions in this article. We shall 
simply indicate the main facts which have come out 
in the course of investigation, stating at the same time 
the theory which seems to account most satisfactorily 
for the peculiarities of Greek which these writings pre- 
sent. 

In the earliest stages of a language the dialects arc 
exceedingly numerous, every small district having pe- 
culiar variations of its own. Such we find to have 
been the case with Greek ; for, though its dialects have 
generally been reckoned as four, wc know that each 
of these was variously modified in various places. In 
course of time, however, one of these dialects, the At- 
tic, drove the rest from the field of literary composi- 
tion, and almost all Greeks who wrote books wrote 
in that dialect, wherever they might have been born. 
The Attic which they used underwent some changes, 
and then received the name of the koivi) or common di- 
alect. This dialect has been used by Greeks for liter- 
ary purposes from the time of Alexander the Great 
down to the present age. 

"While Attic thus became the literary language, the 
various communities spoke Greek as they had learned 
it from their parents and teachers. This spoken Greek 
would necessarily differ in different places, and it 
would gradually become very different from the sta- 
tionary language which was used in writings. Now 
it seems that the language used by the Sept, and N.- 
T. writers was the language used in common conver- 
sation, learned by them, not through books, but most 
likely in childhood from household talk, or if not, 
through subsequent oral instruction. If this he the 
case, then the Sept, is the first translation which was 
made for the great masses of the people in their own 
language, and the N.-T. writers are the first to appeal 
to men through the common vulgar language intelli- 
gible to all who spoke Greek. The common Greek 
thus used was, however, considerably modified by the 
circumstances of the writers; and hence some have, 
hut rather unnecessary, termed the Greek in question 
the Hebraistic or Hellenistic dialect. See Hellenist. 

II. Inflections . — Max Muller justly affirms that the 
grammar of a language is “ the most essential element, 
and therefore the ground of classification in all lan- 
guages which have produced a definite grammatical 
articulation” (Lectures on the Science of Lanejuage, p. 
74). Now the grammar of the Sept, and N. T., in 
very many of its departures from the common dialect , 
approximates to the medieval Greek of Ptochoprodro- 
mus in the 12th centurj", and to the modern Greek of 
the present day, both of which are simply the language 
of the common people, as debased by time and vulgar 
usage. Thus the N. T. and modern Greek have no 
dual. In their declension of nouns we find a mixture 
of dialects, such as, for instance, a in the genitive sin- 
gular of proper names in ag ; and ijg in the genitive, 
and y in the dative, of nouns in pa (o-Eipyg, Acts 
xxvii, 1 ; pa\atp7 t ), Rev. xiii, 10, etc.). There is in 
both a change from the second to the third declension 
in the words vovg , GKorog, ZXeoq, and 7rAof'ro£. The 
N. T., however, declines some of them occasionally as 
of the second declension. Both display great pecul- 
iarities in the forms for the comparative and superla- 
tive of adjectives, such, for instance, as pEi^orepav, 3 
John 4. In modern Greek the optative mood is rare, 
and occurs only in wishes. It is rare also in the N. 
T., and in some of the hooks it does not occur at all. 
The modern Greek declines the second aorist as the 
first. This is the case frequentl}' in the N. T. also, as 
EirEtm for ettegov.- The N. T. sometimes forms the im- 
perative by means of afiypi, as ii^Eg ek(Mi\w, OapEg 
iCwpEv. This is now the common form in modern 
Greek, dfag being contracted into dg. The second 


GREEK LANGUAGE 


987 


GREEK LANGUAGE 


person singular in the present passive or middle ends 
in modern Greek in the regular oat ; so in the N. T. 
KCtvxn^aL and cvvcami . The third person plural of 
the imperfect active of contracted verbs in modern 
Greek ends in aav ; so in Sept, and N. T. idoXtovoav. 
There is a striking similarity in the conjugation of 
verbs in both. Both have a tendency to form all the 
parts regularly. Both also deal arbitrarily with aug- 
ments. Both avoid the nse of verbs in /«, and both 
generally strengthen pure verbs by the insertion of 
a v. Sometimes they change the vowel t into a, as 
tXtare, in Jude 23 (see Cremer, s. v. iXeba ). In- 
stances of several of these peculiarities may be found 
in our texts of the classical writers, and a still lar- 
ger number in our manuscripts of them ; but it is 
to be noted that in them they appear as rarities; 
in the New Testament their occurrence is more fre- 
quent, and in modern Greek they have passed into 
customary forms. Some of these forms have been set 
down as Alexandrian or Macedonian, blit Sturz (Z>e 
Vialecto Macedonian et A lexandrina, Lipsise, 1808) has 
entirely failed to prove that there was either a Mace- 
donian or an Alexandrian dialect. The Macedonian 
words which he has adduced indicate that the Mace- 
donians were non-Hellenic. There are no forms ad- 
duced as Alexandrian which are not to be found in 
some earlier dialect. In fact, there is nothing in any 
of the statements to which he appeals to contradict 
the opinion that Alexandrians, like other Greek-speak- 
ing people, mixed up various dialects in their spoken 
language. The written language of the Alexandrians, 
as we know from the works of Philo and other resi- 
dents in Alexandria, was the so-called “common dia- 
lect.” Moreover, the Greek of the New Testament 
is to be found not in writings of any special locality, 
but in writings which made no pretensions to liter- 
ary excellence, such as the fragments of Hegesippus, 
some of the apocryphal gospels, the apostolical con- 
stitutions, the liturgies, the Chronicon Pascliale, and 
Malelas. 

III. Syntax . — Here the peculiar elements that mix- 
ed themselves with the common spoken language in 
the N.-T. writings make their appearance. The He- 
brew element especially is noteworthy. The transla- 
tors of the Septuagint went on the principle of trans- 
lating as literally as possible, and consequently the 
form of the sentences is essentially Hebrew. Some 
of the writers of the N. T. were themselves Jews, or 
derived part of their information from Jews, and ac- 
cordingly the form of portions of their writings, par- 
ticularly in narrative, is influenced by Hebrew modes. 
At the same time, too much stress is not to be laid on 
this Hebrew influence, for tbe writers appear some- 
times to differ from the classical types, not because 
they were Jews, but because they were simple plain- 
speaking (r /) v yX&TTciv iduortvuvrtg, Eusebius, 1 list. 
Keel, iii, 2-1) men, who cared little about rounded sen- 
tences. The Hebrew element shows itself in particu- 
lar phrases and constructions, as in 7rouh/ iXtog ptrei 
Ttnog ; but the amount of this Hebrew element is not 
so great as it has often been supposed to be, and in 
some of the N.-T. writers it is scarcely noticeable at 
all. Generally speaking, the syntax, like the gram- 
mar, has a tendency towards modern Greek. It has, 
like it, frequent recourse to the use of prepositions, and 
we find such expressions even as cbvra tic vpdg (1 
Thess. iv, 8). After the comparative irapd is frequent- 
ly used instead of ij in the N. T. ; in modern Greek it 
is always employed. On account of the rareness of 
the optative, and an avoidance of the infinitive by 
some of the writers, both the N. T. and modern Greek 
abound in the use of tVor with the subjunctive, and 
sometimes even with the indicative, as in Revelations. 
The neuter plural is 'more regulaily joined with a plu- 
ral verb in N.-T. Greek ; it is always joined with it in 
modern Greek. Many other peculiarities in which the 
syntax and inflections of the N. T. and those of mod- 


ern Greek agree might be noted. For the use of the 
Greek article, see Article. 

IV. Vocabulary . — The words used by the N.-T. 
writers show a still greater variety of elements. 

1. Here we notice distinctly, also, the tendency to- 
wards the modern language, as, for instance, in the use 
of xopr«£a>, to feed men, in the frequent employment of 
diminutives, in attaching a weakened sense to words like 
fidXXio, which had originally the idea of vigor in them, 
and in a variety of adverbs and conjunctions rarely 
used by the classical writers. Some of these peculiar 
uses have been assigned to the supposed Alexandrian 
dialect; but in the discussions no attempt has been 
made to distinguish between what may have been pure 
Alexandrianisnis, and what may have been common in 
Greek conversation, though not in Greek writings. 

2. In the words we find a Latin element, as might 
be expected. The Latin words used in the N. T. a:e 
not very numerous, but they show plainly that the 
writers had no other desire than to call things by their 
common names. They do not translate them into 
Greek, as a scholar of those days or an imitator of At- 
tic writings would have done. We find a few Greek 
phrases in the N. T. which have evidently been trans- 
lated from Latin, such as crvpfiovXiov Xafitiiv — consili- 
um capere. 

3. There are also several Aramaic words used in the 

N. T., especially by Christ. Most of these words and 
expressions are of a peculiar nature. They are almost 
all of them utterances employed on some solemn occa- 
sion. They were at one time appealed to as proof that 
Jesus regularly used the Aramaic in his addresses to the 
people ; but the} 7 have recently been adduced, and 
with considerable force, to prove exactly the contrary, 
that Jesus frequently used the Greek language in his 
public conversations as being more intelligible to all, 
but that, when powerfully moved or deeply touched, 
he employed Aramaic words, as being more expressive 
from their associations (Roberts, Discussions on the Gos- 
pels, pt. i, ch. iv). Besides this, the Hebrew or Ara- 
maic has exercised an influence on the meanings of 
some Greek words, as, for instance, in the use of <)<pti- 
Xijpa for a sin. In several instances, however, where 
this Hebrew influence has been set down as existing, a 
more satisfactor}’ explanation is given in another way. 
Thus ducaioavvi] is taken by some to mean liberality in 
2 Cor. ix, 9, 10, because they suppose that has 

this meaning in Psa. cxii, 9, where the Sept, translates 
dwaioavvi]. In both cases it may be doubted whether 
CtKaioavvrj ought to receive this meaning, and unques- 
tionably in the second Epistle to the Corinthians it is 
much simpler to suppose that Taul looks on liberality 
as an essential part of righteousness, and righteousness 
therefore as including liberality. 

4. There is also another element in the vocabulary 
of a peculiar nature. This arises from the novelty of 
the teachings combined with their exalted morality. 
The new thoughts demanded new modes of expres- 
sion, and hence the writers did not hesitate to use 
words in senses rare, if not entirely unknown to the 
classical writers. This fact could not be fully illus- 
trated without exhibiting the results of investigation 
into various characteristic words, such as pvarppior, 
SiKaiOQ, dncaioavvrj, Cucauno, Triorig, Zioi), Savarog, Co- 
£a, Jo£«£w, 0/07/7, etc. These results seem to us to 
form no inconsiderable addition to the proof of the di- 
vinity of Christianity, for the grand moral ideas that 
were expressed by some of them are unique in the age 
in which the} 7 were uttered. Thus the w r ord %iot) is 
frequently used to denote an entire and absolute con- 
secration of soul, body, and spirit to God, for it is this 
entire consecration which the} 7 look upon as the life- 
principle of man. Living, with them, if it be not liv- 
ing to God in Christ, is not living at all, but death ; 
and a death which works not merely in the soul, but 
also in the body. Flato and the Stoics had something 


GREEK LANGUAGE 


988 


GREEK VERSIONS 


like this notion of £w/;,but with them it was a specula- 
tion. They are continually reasoning about it. The 
writers of the N. T. treat it as an unquestionable real- 
ized fact. So, again, 8u£a means glory ; but the writers 
of the N. T. separate from it every notion of material 
splendor or earthly renown, and use it to denote that 
spiritual irradiation of the whole man which takes 
place when God reigns in him, when the image of God 
is realized in him. Thus we come short of God’s glory 
when we fail to present the purity and holiness of his 
character and image in our characters. Thus the c 
of the N. T. is purely spiritual and moral. Then, 
again, it is remarkable how, in the case of words like 
rcRojO, \ovrpov, and fiairriZio, the material meaning 
often vanishes entirely out of sight, and the writers 
express by them the spiritually purifying power of 
Christ, which really and entirely cleanses both soul 
and body (Alexander, A nglo- Catholicism not Apostolical , 
p.293). The moral fervor of the writers is also seen 
in their omission of certain words. Thus the sensuous 
ipciv is never used to express the idea which they had 
of love . The words tudcitfuitv and evrv\))g are also 
unknown to the N. T., and, indeed, the writers do not 
use any word to express mere happiness : paicdpiog is 
used several times to denote something more than 
mere earthly felicity. They avoid all words connect- 
ed with mythology, such as the compounds of caipuov, 
which, with its diminutive, is used in a peculiarly Jew- 
ish and Christian sense. The writers of the N. T. are 
also remarkable for confining a word to one meaning. 
Thus pc runout is a turning of the whole soul from evil 
to good, and no other compound with pcrci is used in 
the same sense, while Justin Martyr uses perdvout as 
a change from good to evil as well as from evil to good, 
and he employs perayiypcjoicio and pcrciriScoSai, as 
well as pcravoeio, for the same idea. 

V. Literature . — The works on the subject of this 
article are very numerous. Many of them are enu- 
merated and criticised in Winer’s Grammatik des Neu- 
testamentlichen Sprackidioms (5th ed. Leipz. 1844, 8vo); 
and Schirlitz’s Grundzuge der Xeutestamentlichen Grad - 
tat (Giessen, 1801, 8vo); see also Lipsius, Bibliscke 
Gracitdt (Lpz. 1803, 8vo). Much information will be 
found in works that discuss later Greek, such as Lo- 
bcck’s Idirynichm , and Jacobs’s Achilles Tatius , and es- 
pecially in a Glossary of Later and Byzantine Greek , by 
E. A. Sophocles, published as vol. ii, new series, of the 
Memoirs of the American Academy (Cambridge and 
Boston, 1800, 4to). Much interesting and instructive 
matter is also to lie found in the glossaries and articles 
given in the Pandora , a fortnightly periodical publish- 
ed in Athens. 

The best Grammars of the N. T., next the above 
work of Winer (of which the fourth ed., Leipzig, 1830, 
was translated by Agnew and Ebbeke, Philadel. 1840, 
8vo ; and the Gth ed., Lpz. 1855, by Masson, London, 
1855, 8vo; revised and compared with the 7th ed. by 
Thayer, Andover, 18G9, Svo), are those of Stuart (An- 
dov. 1841, Svo), and Trollope (Lond. 1841, Svo). The 
doctrine of the article has been especially discussed by 
Sharp (1st ed. Lond. 1798, 12mo) and Middleton (1st 
ed. Lond. 1808, Svo). The synonymes have been well 
treated by Tittmann (Lips. 1829-32, 2 vols. 8vo ; tr. in 
the Bill. Cabinet, Ed mb. 1833-37, 2 vols. 12mo), Trench 
London, 1854, N. Y. 1857, 12mo), and Webster (Lond. 
1804, 8vo). Grinfiehl’s Aoe. Test. Ilellenisticum (Lond. 
1843, 2 vols. Svo) contains an ample collation of the 
N.-T. phraseology with that of the Sept., which his 
Scholia llcllenistica (Lond. 1848, 2 vols. Svo) extends 
to a comparison with Josephus, I’liilo, the fathers, and 
apocryphal works. The best Lexicons of the N.-T. 
Greek are those of Parkhurst (ed. Hose, London, 1829, 
Svo), Pasor (ed. Fischer, Lips. 1774, 8vo), .Schottgcn 
(ed. Krebs et Spohn, Ilal. 1819, 8vo), Simonis (includ- 
ing the Sept., 1 Ini. 17G2, ltd), Schleusnef (4th ed. Lips. 
*819, 4 vols. Svo), P»retsohneider (2d ed. Lips. 1829, 2 
vcls. 8vo), and Wahl (21 cd. Lip . 1829, 2 vols. 8vo), 


especially the completely remodelled issue of the last 
by Dr. Robinson (N.Y. 1850, 8vo). The latest are Wil- 
kii Claris N. T. (Lips. 18G3, Svo), and Cremer, BibL- 
theol. Wurterbuch der N. T. Gracitdt (Gotha, 18GG, 8vo). 

Greek Versions of the Holy Scriptures. 
These, of course, except the modern Greek version of 
the N. T., are confined to the Old Testament, including 
the Apocrypha (q. v.). 

I. The Septuagint. — This is the most important 
of all the ancient versions, whether in the Greek or 
any other language. See Septuagint. 

IT. Aquila. — It is a remarkable fact that in the 2d 
century after Christ there were three versions execu- 
ted of the Old-Testament Scriptures into Greek. The 
first of these was made by Aquila (Q^pg or 
’Afci/Xdc), a native of Sinope, in Pontus, who had be- 
come a proselyte to Judaism. The Jerusalem Talmud 
(see Bartolocci, Bibliotheca Rabbin, iv, 281) describes 
him as a disciple of Rabbi Akiba ; and this would 
place him in some part of the reign of the emperor 
Hadrian (A.D. 117-138). It is supposed that the ob- 
ject of his version w r as to aid the Jews in their contro- 
versies with the Christians ; and that, as the latter 
were in the habit of employing the Sept., they wished 
to have a version of their own on which they could 
rely. It is very probable that the Jew's in many 
Greek-speaking countries were not sufficiently ac- 
quainted with Hebrew to refer for themselves to the 
original, and thus they wished to have such a Greek 
translation as they might use with confidence in their 
discussions. Such controversies were (it must be re- 
membered) a new thing. Trior to the preaching of 
the Gospel, there were none besides the Jew’s who 
used the Jewish Scriptures as a means of learning 
God’s revealed truth, except those w-ho either partial- 
ly or wholly became proselytes to Judaism. But now 
the Jews saw r to their grief that their Scriptures were 
made the instruments for teaching the principles of a 
religion w hich they regarded as nothing less than an 
apostasy from Moses. 

This, then, is a probable account of the origin of this 
version. Extreme literality and an occasional polem- 
ical bias appear to be its chief characteristics. The 
idiom of the Greek language is very often violated in 
order to produce what w’as intended should be a very 
literal version ; and thus not only sense, but grammar 
even, was disregarded: a sufficient instance of this is 
found in the rendering of the Ileb. particle rx by aiV, 
as in Gen. i, 1, cvv rev ovpavov icai cvv rip' y i\v, 
“quod Grieca et Latina lingua omnino non recipit,” 
as Jerome says. Another instance is furnished by 
Gen. v, 5, icai i'£r\(jcv ’Ac dp rptciKovrci irog tcai twciKu- 
ma trog. 

It is sufficiently attested that this version was 
formed for controversial purposes; a proof of which 
may be found in the rendering of particular passages, 
such as Isa. vii, 14, where in the Sept. 7 rao6c- 

vog, is by Aquila translated wang ; such renderings 
might be regarded perhaps rather as modes of avoid- 
ing ail argument than as direct falsification. There 
I certainly was room for a version w hich should express 
I the Hebrew more accurately than w r as done by the 
Sept. ; but if this had been thoroughly carried out it 
would have been found that in many important points 
of doctrine — such, for instance, as in the divinity of 
the Messiah and the rejection of Israel, the true ren- 
dering of the Hebrew text would have been in far 
closer conformity with the teaching of the New Test, 
than w r as the Sept, itself. It is probable, therefore, 
that one polemical object was to make the citations in 
the New Test, from the Old appear to be inconclusive, 
by producing other renderings (often probably more 
literally exact) differing from the Sept., or even con- 
tradicting it. Thus Christianity might seem to the 
I Jewish mind to rest on a false basis. But a really 


GREEK VERSIOXS 


989 


GREEK VERSIOXS 


critical examiner would have found that in many points 
of important doctrine the New Testament definitely 
rejects the reading of the Sept, (when utterly nnsuited 
to the matter in hand), and adopts the reading of the 
Hebrew. The very circumstance that Aquila’s version 
was adopted and valued by the Jews would tend to 
create a prejudice against it among the fathers, inde- 
pendently of all perversion of Messianic passages. 
Irenaeus, the earliest writer who mentions Aquila, pro- 
nounces an unfavorable opinion respecting his transla- 
tion (Adv. Jlceres. iii, 24, p. 253, ed. Grabe). So also 
Eusebius (Ad Psalm, xc, 4) and Philastrius. Jerome 
speaks of him in various parts of his writings, some- 
times disparagingly, and again in terms of commenda- 
tion : the former in allusion to his doctrinal preposses- 
sions, the latter in reference to his knowledge of the 
Hebrew language and exceeding carefulness in ren- 
dering. That this version was employed for centuries 
by the Jews themselves is proved indirectly by the 
146th Novella of Justinian. 

It is mentioned (Jerome, in Ezek. iii) that Aquila 
put forth a second edition (i. e. revision) of his ver- 
sion, in which the Hebrew was yet more servilely fol- 
lowed, but it is not known if this extended to the 
whole or only to three books, namely, Jeremiah, Eze- 
kiel, and Daniel, of which there are fragments. 

Aquila often appears to have so closely sought to 
follow the etymology of the Hebrew words that not 
only does his version produce no definite idea, but it 
does not even suggest any meaning at all. If we pos- 
sessed it perfect it would have been of great value as 
to the criticism of the Hebrew text, though often it 
would be of no service as to its real understanding. 
(See Fiirst, Bibliotheca Judaica , i, 29.) See Aquila. 

III. Theodotion. — The second version, of which 
we have information as executed in the 2d century, is 
that of Theodotion. He is stated to have been an 
Ephesian, and a Jewish proselyte ; and he seems to be 
most generally described as an Ebionite (Iremeus, Adv. 
I her. iii, 24) : if this is correct, his work was probably 
intended for those semi-Christians who may have de- 
sired to use a version of their own instead of employ- 
ing the Sept, with the Christians, or that of Aquila 
with the Jews. But it may be doubted if the name 
of translation can be rightly applied to the work of 
Theodotion : it is rather a revision of the Sept, with 
the Hebrew text, so as to bring some of the copies then 
in use into more conformity with the original. This 
he was able to do (with the aid probably of some in- 
structors), so as to eliminate portions which had been 
introduced into the Sept, without really being an in- 
tegral part of the version, and also so as to bring 
much into accordance with the Hebrew in other re- 
spects. But his own knowledge of Hebrew was evi- 
dently very limited ; and thus words and parts of 
sentences w r ere left untranslated, the Hebrew being 
merely written with Greek letters. 

Theodotion, as well as Aquila, was quoted by Ire- 
nrcus, and against both there is the common charge 
laid of corrupting texts which relate to the Messiah : 
some polemical intention in such passages can hardly 
be doubted. The statement of Epiphanius that he 
made his translation in the reign of Cominodus accords 
well with its having been quoted by Irenaeus; but it 
cannot be correct if it is one of the translations referred 
to by Justin Martyr as giving interpretations contrary 
to the Christian doctrine of the New Testament. It 
appears from Jerome (in Jer. xxix, 17) that there 
were two editions of Theodotion’s version. 

There can be no doubt that this version was much 
used by Christians: probably many changes in the 
text of the Sept, were adopted from Theodotion : this 
may have begun before the Biblical labors of Origen 
brought the various versions into one conspectus. The 
translation of the book of Daniel by Theodotion was 
substituted for that of the Sept, in ecclesiastical use as 
early at least as the first part of the 3d century. Hence I 


Daniel, as rendered or revised by Theodotion, has so 
long taken the place of the true Sept, that the latter 
version of this book was supposed not to be extant, 
and it has only been found in one MS. In most edi- 
tions of the Sept. Theodotion’s version of Daniel is still 
substituted for that which really belongs to that trans- 
lation. By the Jews Theodotion’s version seems never 
to have been much esteemed. For literature, see Fiirst, 
Bibliotheca Judaica , iii, 420 sq. See Theodotion. 

IV. Symjiaciius is stated by Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. 
vi, 17 ; Demonstr. Evang. vii, 1) and Jerome (Prwf. in 
Ezrani ) to have been an Ebionite ; so, too, in the Syr- 
ian accounts given by Assemani (Bill. Orient, ii, 278 ; 
iii, 1, 17) ; Epiphanius, however, and others style him 
a Samaritan. There may have been Ebionites from 
among the Samaritans who constituted a kind of sep- 
arate sect, and these may have desired a version of 
their own ; or it may be that, as a Samaritan, he made 
this version for some of that people who employed 
Greek, and who had learned to receive more than the 
Pentateuch. But perhaps to such motives -was added 
(if, indeed, this were not the only cause of the version) 
a desire for a Greek translation not so unintelligibly 
bald as that of Aquila, and not displaying such a want 
of Hebrew learning as that of Theodotion. It is prob- 
able that if this translation of Svmmachus had ap- 
peared prior to the time of Irena*us, it would have 
been mentioned by him; and this agrees with what 
Epiphanius says, namely, that he lived under the em- 
peror Severus. 

The style of the work is good, and the diction per- 
spicuous, pure, and elegant (Thieme, De puritate Sy?n - 
much l, Lips. 1755 ; Hody, De Bibl. text, original.'). It 
is of less benefit in criticism than that of Aquila, but 
of greater advantage in interpretation. It wmuld seem 
from Jerome that there was a second edition of it (Com- 
ment. in Jerem. xxxii ; in Nah. iii). For literature, 
see Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 399 sq. See Symmaciius. 

V. The Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Versions. — 
Besides the translations of Aquila, Symmaehus, and 
Theodotion, the great critical work of Origen comprised 
as to portions of the Old Test, three other versions, 
placed for comparison with the Sept., which, from 
their being anonymous, are only known as the fifth, 
sixth, and seventh, designations taken from the places 
which they respectively occupied in Origen’s columnar 
arrangement. Ancient writers seem not to have been 
uniform in the notation which they applied to these 
versions, and thus what is cited from one by its num- 
ber of reference is quoted by others under a different 
numeral. 

These three partial translations were discovered by 
Origen in the course of his travels in connection with 
his great work of Biblical criticism. Eusebius says 
that two of these versions (but without designating 
precisely which) were found, the one at Jericho, and 
the other at Nicopolis, on the gulf of Aetium. Epipha- 
nius says that what he terms the fifth was found at 
Jericho, and the sixth at Nicopolis, while Jerome 
speaks of the fifth as having been found at the latter 
place. 

The contents of the fifth t'crsion appear to have 
been the Pentateuch, Psalms, Canticles, and the minor 
prophets : it seems also to have been referred to in the 
Syro-Hexaplar text of the second book of Kings : it 
may be doubted if in all these books it was complete, 
or at least if so much were adopted by Origen. The 
existing fragments prove that the translator used the 
Hebrew original ; but it is also certain that he was 
aided by the work of former translators. 

The sixth version seems to have been just the same 
in its contents as the fifth (except 2 Kings), and thus 
the two may have been confused : this translator also 
seems to have had the other versions before him. Je- 
rome calls the authors of the fifth and sixth u Judaicos 
translators, ” probably meaning Jewish Christians, 
for the translator of this must have been a Christian 


GREEN 


990 


GREEN 


when he executed his work, or else the hand of a Chris- 
tian reviser must have meddled with it before it was 
employed by Origen, which seems, from the small in- 
terval of time, to be hardly probable, l'or in Hah. iii, 
15, the translation runs, t£/)A 9tg tov g uigcu tov A aov 
gov hu’hiaov tov \oigtov gov. 

Of the seventh version very few fragments remain. 
It seems to have contained the Psalms and minor 
prophets, and the translator was probably a Jew. 

From the references given by Origen, or by those 
who copied from Iris columnar arrangement and its 
results (or who added to such extracts), it has been 
thought that other Greek versions were spoken of. Of 
these, 6 'Ejipalog probably refers to the Hebrew text, 
or to something drawn from it; o Eopoe, to the Old 
Syriac version ; to SapaptiTiicbv, probably a reference 
to the Samaritan text, or some Samaritan gloss ; /> 
‘tiAAqi'ucog o 'AAAoc, 6 uve7riypa(poe, some unspecified 
version or versions. 

The existing fragments of these varied versions are 
mostly to be found in the editions of the relics of Ori- 
gen’s Ilexapla, by Montfaucon and by Bardht. (See 
Epiphanius, De Ponderibus el Mensuris, cap. 17 ; Euse- 
bius, Hist . Eccles. vi, 1G; Jerome, Comment in Tit. cap. 
3 ; Apolog. contra Rujin. ii, 34 ; Ilod}', p. 590, sq.) See 
ORIGEN. 

VI. The Gr.eco-Yeneta Version. — A MS. of the 
14th century, in the library of St. Mark at Venice, con- 
tains a peculiar version of the Pentateuch, Proverbs, 
Ecclesiastes, Canticles, Until, Lamentations, and Dan- 
iel. All of these books, except the Pentateuch, were 
published by Villoison at Strasburg in 1784 ; the Pen- 
tateuch was edited by Ammon at Erlangen in 1790-91. 
The version itself is thought to be four or five hundred 
years older than the one M S. in which it has been trans- 
mitted: this, however, is so thoroughly a matter of 
opinion, that there seems no absolute reason for deter- 
mining that this one MS. may not be the original, as 
well as the only one in existence. In any case, the MS. 
cannot be considered earlier than the 14th century, or 
the version earlier than the 9th. It is written ill one 
very narrow column on each page; the leaves follow 
each other in the Hebrew order, so that the book begins 
at what we should call the end. An examination of 
the MS. suggested the opinion that it may have been 
written on the broad inner margin of a Hebrew MS., 
and that for some reason the Hebrew portion had been 
cut away, leaving thus a Greek MS. probably unique 
as to its form and arrangement. As to the translation 
itself, it is on an}' supposition too recent to be of im- 
portance in criticism. It may be said briefty that the 
translation was made from the Hebrew, although the 
present punctuation and accentuation is often not fol- 
lowed, and the translator was no doubt acquainted with 
some other Greek versions. The language of the trans- 
lation is a most strange mixture of astonishing and ca- 
cophonous barbarism with attempts at Attic elegance 
and refinement. The Doric, which is employed to an- 
swer to the Chaldee portions of Daniel, seems to be an 
indication of remarkable affectation. The author was 
probably a Christian of Byzantine, but of Jewish ex- 
traction. (See Eichhorn, Allg. Bill, iii, 371; v, 713; 
vii, 193; Dabler, 1 ’ers. Grac. Argent. 1786.) — Smith, 
s. v. Versions; Kitto, s. v. See Veneto-Greek. 

Green is the rendering in the A.V. of the follow- 
ing terms in the original [see Color] : prop, some 
form of the root p^*\ yaralJ, to be pale green, as grass 
or an affrighted person, \\iopog ; also deshe, 

early vegetation ; other less appropriate or less usual 
words so rendered arc Kb, lack, Gen. xxx, 37 ; Judg. 
xvi, 7, 8 ; Ezek. xvii, 24 ; xx, 47, moist with sap (as in 
Numb, vi, 3), like vypog, Luke xxiii, 21, and'likc ^ 
ratoV , juicy, Job viii, 16 ; ’^2^, raanan \, verdant with 
foliage (in connection with “tree,” etc., “fresh” in 
Psa. xcii, 10; “flourishing'' in ver. 19); but in Esth. 


i, 6, the word is DS'IS, karpas', fine linen (q. v.). i. o. 
KapnaGoc, carbasus. See also Ear (of Corn) ; Fig. 

Green, Ashbel, D.D., an eminent Presbyterian 
divine, was born at Hanover, Morris Co., N.J., July 
6, 17G2. He taught school for a while, and in his lei- 
sure hours studied to prepare himself for college. 
When the Devolution broke out he enlisted, and was 
for a time carried away by the infidel notions which 
prevailed among his new associates. He soon resolved, 
however, to make the divinity of the Bible the subject 
of thorough investigation, and, while seeking for proofs 
in the Bible itself, he had not gone far before he was 
cured of his skepticism. He entered the College of 
New Jersey in the spring of 1782, and graduated with 
high honors in 1784. He was immediately appointed 
tutor in the college, and two years after professor of 
mathematics and natural philosophy. He was licensed 
to preach by the presbytery of New Brunswick in Feb. 
1786, and, after declining a call from the Independent 
congregation of Charleston, S. C., accepted one from 
the Second Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, 
where he was installed in May, 1787, as colleague of 
the Rev. Dr. Sproat. In 1787 he was elected a mem- 
ber of the American Philosophical Society, and in 1790 
of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, 
where he moved for a renewal of communications with 
the Congregational Church. He was made D.D. by 
the University of Pennsylvania in 1792, and in the 
same year was appointed chaplain to Congress, which 
office he held until 1800. In 3802 the College of 
New Jersey was destroyed by fire, and Dr. Green, 
who had been one of the trustees since 1790, was ap- 
pointed to fill the place of the president, Dr. Smith, 
while the latter went on a collecting tour through the 
States. The establishment of a Presbyterian Theo- 
logical Seminary was first proposed in the General As- 
sembly of May, 1809, and a board of directors having 
been appointed in May, 3812, the latter chose Dr. 
Green for their president: he held this office until his 
death. Being elected president of the College of New 
Jersey in August, 1812, he accepted the appointment, 
and resigned his pastoral charge. In the same year 
he was made LL.D. by the University of North Caro- 
lina. At the college he delivered a series of Lectures 
cn the Assembly's Catechism , which were afterwards 
published by the General Assembly’s Board of Publi- 
cation (2 vols. 12mo) and in the Christian Advocate. 
Resigning the presidency of the college in September, 
1822, he took up his residence at Philadelphia, where 
he published for twelve years the Christian Advocate , 
a religious monthly, writing the greater part of it him- 
self, besides preaching to an African congregation for 
two years and a half, and often supplying the pulpits 
of other ministers. He died May 19, 1848. He was 
a very abundant writer; his principal works, in addi- 
tion to those already named, are, Ten occasional JSer- 
mons (1790-1836): — Six Addresses, Rejwrts, etc. (1793- 
1836) : — History of Presbyterian Missions (1 vol.) : — 
Discourses on the College of New Jersey , together with a 
History of the College (1822) ; etc. lie also superintend- 
ed an edition of Dr. Witherspoon's IForLs (1802), and left 
in MS. a biography of that great man. For several 
years, beginning with 1801. he was the responsible ed- 
itor of the General Assembly's Magazine. See Life of 
Ashbel Green, V.D.M ., prepared for the Press at the Au- 
thor's request by J. If. Jones (N. Y. 1819, 8vo); Sprague, 
Annuls , iii, 79 sq. ; Allibone, Diet, of Authors, i, 731 ; 
Princeton Review, 1819, p. 5G3. 

Green, William, a divine of the Church of Eng- 
land, was a fellow of Clare Hall, Cambridge, and af- 
terwards rector of llardingham, Norfolk, lie wrote a 
New Translation of the Psalms , with Xotes (Lond. 1763, 
8vo) : — A Xew ' Translation of Isaiah , with Notes (eh. 
vii-liii; 1776, 8vo) : — and Poetical Parts of the Old 
Testament , translated from the Hebrew , with Notes 
(Camb. 1781, 4to). He died in 1794. — Pur op. Mag. 


GREENE 


991 


GREGOIRE 


Greene, Thomas, bishop of Ely, was born at 
Norwich in 1658, and educated at Benedict College, 
Cambridge, of which he obtained a scholarship, and in 
1680 a fellowship. After numerous preferments he ob- 
tained the vicarage of St. Martin’s-m-the-Fields, West- 
minster, in 1716. This he held in commendam with 
the bishopric of Norwich, to which he was consecrated 
October 8, 1721, but was thence translated to Ely, 
September 24, 1723. George I, soon after his acces- 
sion, appointed him one of his domestic chaplains. He 
died in 1738. He wrote, 1. The Sacrament of the Lord's 
Supper explained to the meanest capacities (Loiul. 1710, 
12ino) : — 2. The Principles of Religion explained fur the 
Instruction of the Weak (id. 1726, 12mo) : — 3. Four Dis- 
courses on the four Last Things (Lond. 1734, 12mo.) — 
Ilook, Eccles . Ling. vol. v. 

Greenfield, William, a celebrated linguist, was 
born in London April 1, 1799. In his thirteenth year 
he was apprenticed to a London bookseller. His love 
of the study of languages was so great that, while la- 
boring all day in his master’s service, he acquired suc- 
cessively Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and several modern 
languages. In 1822 he submitted to Mr. Bagster, a 
publisher in London, the prospectus of a Polyglot Gram- 
mar of nearly thirty languages, on the principles of 
comparative grammar. He was employed to edit the 
Comprehensive Bible issued by Bagster in 1826. In 
1828 9 he edited an edition of the Syriac New Testa- 
ment, and in 1830 he prepared a revised translation of 
the N. T. into Hebrew, both for Bagster’s Polyglot. 
He prepared a Lexicon of the Greek N. T., followed by 
an abridgment of Schmidt’s Greek Concordance. In 
1830 he was appointed editor of foreign versions to the 
British and Foreign Bible Society. His excessive la- 
bor overmastered his strength, and he died Nov. 5,1831. 
— Kitto, Cyclop, p. 178; Allibone, Diet . of Authors , i, 
734 ; Imperial Magazine, Jan. and Feb. 1834. 

Greenham, Richard, an English Furitan divine, 
was born in 1531, and was educated at Pembroke Hall, 
Cambridge, lie was for many years pastor of Dray- 
ton, near Cambridge, where he died in 1591. He pub- 
lished a number of sermons, treatises, etc., which, after 
his death, were collected and published under the title 
The Works of the Rev. Richard Greenham , revised and 
published by II. II. (7th ed. Lond. 1681, fol.). — Darling, 
Cyclop. Bibliographica , i, 1312. 

Greenhill, William, M.A., a learned and pious 
Nonconformist divine, was born in Oxfordshire. He 
entered Magdalen College, Oxford, in 1604, and ob- 
tained the living of Stepney in 1656. Having joined 
the Independents during the Commonwealth, he was 
ejected at the Restoration, and died about 1677. His 
principal work is An Exposition of the Prophet Eze- 
kiel, with useful Observations thereupon (Lond. 1645, 5 
vols. 4to). A new edition, revised and corrected by 
Sherman, was published in 1839 (Lond. imperial 8vo). 
— Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographica, s. v. 

Greenland, a region in North-eastern America of 
unknown extent northwards, stretches from its south- 
ern extremity, Cape Farewell, along the Atlantic and 
Arctic Oceans on the east, and Davis’s Strait, Baffin’s 
Bay, and Smith’s Sound on the west. It obtained its 
name from an Icelander, Eric Raubi (the Red), who led 
thither an expedition in 985 or 986, and founded two 
settlements on the west coast, called the Oestre and 
Westre Bygd (the east and west colonies). About four 
centuries afterwards, the Westre Bygd was destroyed 
by the pestilence called the “black death,” combined 
w'ith the attacks of the aborigines ; and a century after 
this, the Oestre Bygd suffered the same fate. Green- 
land was visited, and its west coast explored, success- 
ively by Frobisher, Davis, and Baffin, the latter hav- 
ing advanced as far as hat. 78° N. (the limit of the in- 
habited country). More recently Dr. Kane lias ex- 
tended his explorations as far as lat. 82° ; O', or within 
52 J miles of the north pole. In 1868 and 1869 new ex- 


peditions to explore the coast were sent out from Ger- 
many. The most important incident in connection 
with this bleak region is the settlement, in 1721, of 
Hans Egede (q. v.), a Norwegian clergyman, at God- 
thaab (lat. 64° N.), and with him a colony of 43 men. 
The colony was supported by the Danisli government 
till 1731, when the supplies were stopped; but a few 
years afterwards a pension of 2000 rix dollars a year 
was granted to tbe mission. Since that time the Danes 
have established thirteen different colonies or factories 
along the west coast, seven in North Greenland (north 
of lat. 67° N.), and six in South Greenland ; the total 
population of the colonies being about 10,000, inclusive 
of 250 Danes. The Danish (Lutheran) Missionary 
Society seeks to sustain various institutions formed in 
Greenland in eight different places. The Moravians, 
in 1866, supported in Greenland 6 stations, 25 mission- 
aries, 56 native assistants, and their congregations had 
a total membership of 1803. See Chambers, Cyclop. 
s. v. ; Newcomb, Cyclop, of Missions ; Scliem, Ameri- 
can Eccles. Almanac for 1869. (A. J. S.) 

Greensky, Peter, an Indian of the Lake Superior 
country, one of the first converts under the mission- 
ary labors of John Sunday (q. v.), was born in 1807, 
and became a Christian in 1830. He received license 
Sept. 21, 1844. Subsequently he was employed as an 
interpreter to Rev. Mr. Daugherty, of the Presbyterian 
Board, for several years. June 18, 1859, be was again 
licensed as a local preacher in the Methodist Episcopal 
Church ; and in 1862 he was admitted into full connec- 
tion in the Conference, and ordained deacon. For the 
two years following he was in charge of the Oceana 
Indian Mission. In 1864 he was again appointed in 
charge of the Pine River Indian Mission. In 1865 he 
was ordained elder, and returned to Pine River. He 
died of quick consumption, April 8, 1866. Among his 
own people he had extraordinary influence. lie was 
a laborious student, a good theologian, and a power- 
ful preacher. The Indians in Northern Michigan are 
greatly indebted to him for their civilization and pie- 
ty. — Minutes of Conferences, 1866, p. 170. 

Greenwood, Francis William Pitt, a Unita- 
rian minister, was born in Boston in 1797. lie gradu- 
ated at Harvard in 1814, and then pursued his theo- 
logical studies. lie became pastor of the New South 
Church, Boston, in 1818, but was soon compelled, on 
account of his health, to go to Europe, lie returned 
in 1821, and passed several years in Baltimore, where 
he became editor of the Unitarian Miscellany. In 1824 
he was made associate minister of King’s Chapel, Bos- 
ton, and, after 1827, pastor. In 1837-38 he was asso- 
ciate editor of the Christian Examiner, to which he was 
an able and frequent contributor for many years. He 
died August 2, 1843. Dr. Greenwood was a man of 
rare gifts ; an eloquent preacher, and a very accom- 
plished writer. “He gladly acknowledged as Chris- 
tian brethren those who led a Christian life, though 
their theological opinions might lead them to exclude 
I him from the fellowship of the saints.” He published 
j Chapel Liturgy (Boston, 1827, 12mo): — Psalms and 
Ilymns (1830) : — History of King's Chapel (Boston, 1833, 
12mo) : — Sermons to Children : — Lives of the Ticelve 
Apostles (1838) : — Sermons of Consolation (1842) : — Ser- 
mons on various Subjects (1844, 2 vols. 12mo). — Allibone, 
Diet, of Authors, i, 736 ; Christ. Examiner , xxxvi, 227. 

Greeting (prop. cftuj, shaloin, peace ; \aif)io, to 
wish joy ; also '’ZX'O, shaalj to ask after one’s health). 
See Salutation. 

Gregoire, Henri, constitutional bishop of Blois, 
was born at Veho, near Lnnevillc, Dec. 4, 1750. He 
was educated at the Jesuits’ College of Nancy, entered 
the Church, and became teacher in the school at Pont- 
it-Mousson. When the French Revolution broke out 
he embraced its principles, and in 1789 he was elected 
a member of the States-general. He soon became dis- 
tinguished for the boldness of his opinions on civil and 


GREGOR 


992 


GREGORIAN CHANT 


religious liberty; his eloquent efforts in favor of the 
Jews anil the blacks placed him high among the friends 
of humanity. It was on his motion that the Conven- 
tion in 1794 abolished negro slavery. lie was the first 
among the clergy to take the constitutional oatln In 
Sept. 1792, he advocated the abolition of royalty in the 
Convention, yet proposed also the abolition ot capital 
punishment, intending thus to save the king’s life. 
In the Reign of Terror he had the courage to resist in 
the Convention the storm of invectives from the trib- 
unes, and the threats from the Mountain. “Are sac- 
rifices demanded for the country?” he said; “ I am ac- 
customed to make them. Are the revenues of my 
bishopric demanded ? I abandon them without regret. 
Is religion the subject of your deliberations? It is a 
matter beyond your jurisdiction ; 1 demand the free- 
dom of religions worship. ’’ Later, he was one of five 
who opposed the accession of the first consul to the 
throne. In 1814 he signed the act deposing the em- 
peror, and the next year, as member of the Institute, 
declined signing the additional act , which led, in the 
Restoration, to liis expulsion both from that body and 
from the bishopric. lie then devoted himself to liter- 
nrv and benevolent labors until his death, April 28, 
1831. He had a large share in the foundation of some 
of the greatest institutions of that period, such as the 
Bureau des Longitudes , the Conservatoire des Arts et 
Metiers , and the Institut National. Notwithstanding 
his great services to religion and humanity, and his 
repeated refusals, in the worst periods of the Revolu- 
tion, to abandon the Roman Catholic Church, he was 
treated by the authorities of that Church, on their re- 
turn to power, not merely with neglect, but with cruel- 
ty. The archbishop of Paris refused him the last sac- 
raments, except on condition of retracting the consti- 
tutional oath taken forty years before, and also refused 
him Catholic burial! His principal publications are 
Essui stir la regeneration morale, physique et politique 
drs Juifs (Metz, 1789) : — Memoire en faveur des gens de 
sang mele de St. Domingue, etc. (1789): — De la litera- 
ture des Ngres ; recherches sur leurs facultes intellectu- 
elles et morales : — Lihertes de V Eglise Gallicane (1826, 
2d edit.) : — Histoire des sectes religieuses dans les quatre 
parties du monde (2d ed. 1828, G vols. 8vo) : — Chronique 
religieuse (G vols. Svo) :—Becueil de lettres encycliques: 
— A nnales de la religion (18 vols. Svo). — Ilerzog, v, 319 ; 
Migne ; Carnot, Memoires de G rigoire (1837, 2 vols. 
8vo); Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xxi, 882. 


I. Tone. 


zum Gebrauch der Evangelischen Bruedergemeinden) 
he was pre-eminent, furnishing more than three hun- 
dred hymns of his own. He published, besides, a val- 
uable collection of chorals and anthems, and composed 
a number of the liturgical services which are still in 
use. (E. de S.) 

Gregorian, a title of the Armenian Church (q. v.), 
taken from Gregory of Armenia (q. v.). 

Gregorian Calendar. See Calendar. 
Gregorian Chant, Rite, Liturgy. Pope Greg- 
ory the Great established a form for the administration 
of the sacraments (after that of Gelasius, which may 
be found in the “ Sacramentary of Gregory ”), collect- 
ed, arranged, and improved the chants which had al- 
ready been used for centuries before his time, and es- 
tablished a musical school to teach chanting at Rome, 
in which lie took great interest up to the time of his 
death. The collection of chants compiled by Gregory 
forms the basis of modern cathedral music in the 
Church of Rome, and also in the Church of England. — 
Palmer, Origines Liturgicee, vol. i, § 6. See Liturgy. 

“ The foundation of the system of the Gregorian 
tones may be explained thus: As there are seven 
notes from a to g, there should be at least seven dif- 
ferent modes, or tone-systems, varying from each oth- 
er according to the position of the semitones,; but as 
the final or key-note of each mode might be the first 
note or might be in the middle, the same scale could 
therefore, as it were, be viewed from two sides, which 
gave rise to the fourteen system of tones. It was, 
however, found that two of those were at variance with 
a fundamental rule of church song, viz. that every 
mode or scale must possess a perfect fifth or perfect 
fourth ; and that the modes containing a false fifth 
from b natural to f natural, or a false fourth from b to 
f could not be used, and, on account of the dissonant 
character of these intervals, must be rejected. This 
reduced the number of the tones to twelve. It was 
further found, that as four of the twelve were merely 
transpositions of some of the others, there w'ere really 
only eight, and that they were in every respect suffi- 
cient for all the purposes of church song. The eight 
Gregorian tones, as they are handed down to us, were 
in time fixed by a royal mandate of Charlemagne — 
octo toni sufficere vulentur. The following example in 
modern notation in the G clef will show the position 
of the eight Gregorian tones : 


III. Tone. 


4th. 5th. 4th. 4th. 5th. 4th. 


II. Tone. 


IV. Tone. 


V. Tone. 


4th. 


5th. 


4th. 




VII. Tone. 
4th. 5th. 


4th. 


in 


VI. Tone. 


VIII. Tone. 


Gregor, Christian, an eminent bishop and hym- 
nologist of the Moravian Church, was born Jan. 1, 
1723, at Piersdorf, in Silesia, and died Nov. G, 1801, at 
Bert hoi sdorf, in Saxony. lie spent a year and a half 
(1770 1772) in America, en an official visit to the 
churches of the Brethren. Among the compilers of 
the large German Moravian llymn-book (Gesangbuch 


The different character of tlie Gregorian tones depends 
entirely on the places of the semitones, which in the 
above example are marked with a /"-v. Several of 
the tones have -various endings, some as many as four, 
while the second, fifth, and sixth tones have each only 
one ending. Por a full and interesting account of the 
Gregorian church music, see N. A. Janssen’s Grundre - 


GREGORIAN MASS 


993 GREGORIUS NAZIANZENUS 


geln des Gregorianschen Kirchengesanges , published by ( 
Schott in Mainz, 18-1(3.” — Chambers, Encyclop . s. v. 

Gregorian Mass. See Mass. \ 

Gregorian Year. See Year. J 

Gregorius (I>7y6pior) Agrigentinus, or St. , 
Gregory of Agrigentum , a Greek theologian, was born t 
near Agrigentum about A.D. 524. Destined for the j 
priesthood by his pious parents, he studied at Jerusa- j 
lem for five years, and was there ordained deacon. 
Thence he went to Antioch and Constantinople, and 
gained high repute in both places for learning, elo- , 
quence, and sanctity. From Constantinople he went , 
to Rome, and the pope named him bishop of Agrigen- 
tum in Sicily. Two disappointed aspirants for the see 
hired a prostitute to charge him with fornication. He , 
went to Constantinople, and was pronounced innocent 
by J ustinian. Returning to Agrigentum, he died there, 
Nov. 23, 502. He wrote Orationes and Condones ; also 
a Commentarius in Ecdesiasten. This last is lost ; the 
others are given in the life of Gregor}’-, by Leontius, to 
be found in Cajetanus, Sancti Siculi , vol. i. — Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxi, 850; Cave, Hist. Lit. anno 
535 ; Clarke, Succession of Sacred Literature , ii, 512. 

Gregorius Alexandrinus ( Gregory of Alexan- 
dria ), patriarch from A.D. 341 to 348. He was chosen 
bv the Arian prelates at the Council of Antioch, A.D. 
341, though tiie see really belonged to Athanasius, then 
in exile. lie is said to have been a Cappadocian, but 
his early history is not known. The orthodox party 
charge him with very violent and oppressive conduct. 
The Council of Sardiea (A.D. 347) declared that he was 
“not only not a bishop, but not a Christian.” The pre- 
cise date of his death is uncertain, but it seems to have 
been shortly before the return of Athanasius from his 
second exile, A.D. 349. Socrates and Sozomen, how- 
ever, say that he was deposed by his own party be- 
cause he did not act with sufficient zeal against their 
enemies (A.D. 354). — Socrates, Hist. Eccl. ii, 10, 14; 
Sozomen, Hist. Eccl. iii, 5, 7 : Theodoret, Hist. Eccl. ii, 

4, 12 ; Tillemont, Memoires , t. viii ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate , xxi, 875. 

Gregorius Antiochensis ( Gregoiy of Antioch), 
a Greek theologian of the 6th century. First a monk 
at Constantinople, he became afterwards abbot of a 
monastery on Mt. Sinai. The Arabs besieged the con- 
vent, but he succeeded in making peace with them and 
in keeping it. He was appointed patriarch of Antioch 
on the deposition of Anastasius, A.D. 570 or 571 (Baro- 
nius makes it A.D. 573). One of his friends, Anato- 
lius, -was put to death with severe tortures on a charge 
of magic, and the people of Antioch accused Gregory 
of complicity with him, but he was acquitted. His 
enemies then charged him with incest with his own 
sister : of this, too, he was acquitted. Weary of con- 
tention, Gregory gave up his see to Anastasius, and 
soon after died (about A.D. 594). He distinguished 
himself by his hostility to the Acepkali (q. v.). When 
the imperial troops rebelled in Persia, Gregory brought 
them back by an oration, which is preserved by Eva- 
grius, under the title Ayjpoyopta 7rpug ror arparov : he 
wrote also Xoyoc etc rag pvpotyopovg (oratio in midieres 
unguentij eras) ; and both are given in Gallandii Bill. 
Patrum , t. xii. See Evagrius, Hist. Eccl. v., 6, 18 ; vi, 
4, 11, 18, 24 ; Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and 
Myth, ii, 308 ; Hoefer, iVouv. Biog. Generate , xxi, 875. 

Gregorius Caesariensis ( Gregory of Ceesarea ), 
a presbyter of the city of that name in Cappadocia in 
the 10th century. He w-rote a life of Gregory of Na- 
zianzus, which is given in a Latin version by Billens, 
in his edition of Gregory of Nazianzus. It is also in 
Surius, Vit. Sanct. May, 121. We have also of Greg- 
ory a panegyric in Pcitrcs Niccenos, in Combefis, No- 
vum A uctarium , ii, 547. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
xxi, 878 ; Clarke, Succession of Sac. Lit. ii, 565. 

Gregorius Monachus ( Gregory the MoriJcX a 
III. — R R R 


Greek writer of the first part of the 10th century. 
Though always called “the monk,” he was not such, 
as he did not live in a convent, but practised an ascet- 
ic life at his own home. His spiritual guide was St. 
Basil the Younger, after whose death he wrote two 
memoirs of him, one of which survives in the A eta Sanc- 
torum, March, iii, G67. With many absurd stories, it 
gives a good deal of valuable historical matter. — Fa- 
bricius, Bibl. Grceca , x, 206; Cave, Hist. Lit. anno 940; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xxi, 877. 

Gregorius Nazianzemis ( Gregory of Nazian - 
zns , or Nazianzum ), one of the greatest of the Greek 
Church fathers, was born either at Arianzus, a small 
village in Cappadocia, near the town of Nazianzus (or 
Nazianzum), from which he derives his surname, and 
of which his father w r as bishop, or else in the town of 
Nazianzum itself. The date of his birth has never 
been precisely settled, but it was probably about A.D. 
330 (see Ullmann, Life of Gregory , Appendix i). His 
pious mother, Nonna, devoted him when an infant to 
Christ and the Church. Ilis education, which com- 
menced at Cresarea in Cappadocia, was prosecuted 
next at Crcsarea Philippi, and at Alexandria, and w'as 
finished at Athens, where he began a life-long inti- 
macy with Basil the Great. See Basil. lie w p as also 
a feilow-student with Julian, afterwards the apostate 
emperor. Gregory, w r itb a quick instinct, discerned 
the character of Julian even then, and said to one of 
his friends, “How great a scourge is here in training 
for the Roman empire!” He remained at Athens 
nearly ten years, part of which he employed in teach- 
ing rhetoric with great success. About A.D. 356 he 
returned to Nazianzum, where be intended to enter 
upon civil life. Shortly after he was baptized, and 
consecrated himself anew to the service of God, re- 
solving that his gift of eloquence should serve no in- 
terests but those of God and the Church. But for 
his aged father, he would probably at this time have 
gone into the desert to lead an ascetic life, at least for 
some years. At home he remained, and devoted him- 
self to the study of the Scriptures, living by rule a 
life of the strictest self-denial. About A.D. 359 he 
visited Basil in his retreat, and remained a short time 
with him in the practice of ascetic and devotional acts. 
Returning home at the request of his father, probably 
to aid in the settlement of a difficulty into which the 
aged bishop had fallen by signing the Armenian for- 
mula, which favored Arianism (Ullmann, Life of Greg - 
omj, ch. iv, § 2), he was soon after (perhaps), at Christ- 
mas, A.D. 361, ordained suddenly, and without fore- 
warning, by his father, before the congregation. These 
“violent” ordinations were not uncommon in the ear- 
ly Church. Gregory was, how T ever, greatly displeased, 
and pronounced the transaction “an act of spiritual 
tyranny.” Either to calm his feelings, or to prepare 
himself thoroughly for his new functions, he again re- 
tired to his friend Basil in Pontus early in A.D. 362. 
The commands of his father and the calls of the Church 
brought him back to Nazianzum towards Easter, and 
on that festival he delivered his first oration. 

The next six or seven years were spent in pastoral 
labor at Nazianzum ; happily, it seems, on the part 
of Gregory, though with some mortification to his 
pride, from a change of feeling towards him on the 
part of the fickle populace, who, after almost forcing 
him to serve them, afterwards neglected his ministry 
( [Oral . iii, Bcned. ed. p. 69). His brother Ciesarius, 
who praetieed medicine, had become a favorite of Juli- 
an, and this prince endeavored, by his favors, to bring 
him baek to paganism. The Christians murmured at 
seeing the son of a bishop living openly at the court 
of their enemy. Gregory succeeded in inducing Cas- 
sarius to return to Cappadocia (A.D. 362). Julian’s 
edict forbidding Christians to read the pagan authors 
was a severe blow to the Christians, and none felt it 
more than Gregory. His tw r o discourses against Juli- 
an (prepared after his death, A.D. 363) are written as 


GREGORIUS XAZIAXZEXUS 004 GREGORIUS XAZIAXZEXUS 


if against a personal enemy. “He takes eloquence 
awav from us,’’ be says, “as though we were thieves 
who had stolen it.” Elsewhere, addressing the hea- 
then, he writes : “ Ever}' thing else, riches, birth, glo- 
ry, power, and all the vain pomps of earth whose bril- 
liancy vanishes like a dream, 1 willingly abandon to 
you ; but I will not abandon eloquence . I do not com- 
plain of the fatigues I have undergone by land and 
by sea to attain it. Please God that my friends and I 
may possess its power! Among the things 1 care for 
it stands foremost — that is, foremost after those which 
are above all, faith, and the hope which rises up above 
things visible.” And again : “ It is our duty to ren- 
der thanks unto God that eloquence has again become 
free.” These two discourses, it must he admitted, are 
really nothing but pamphlets, exhibiting little of the 
charity and mildness which one would expect from a 
Christian pastor speaking of a deceased enemy. There 
is, nevertheless, a certain grandeur in the indignation 
which Gregory pours out against Julian. At the close 
of the second discourse the orator grows calmer, and 
endeavors to prevent revenge being taken on the par- 
tisans of Julian: he says: “Let not the facility of 
avenging ourselves lead us to forget the duty of mod- 
eration. Let us leave to God’s judgment the chas- 
tisement of those who have offended us . . . and be 
satisfied with seeing the people openly hissing our per- 
secutors in the public places and in the theatres.” 
Gregory’s friendly relations with Basil came near be- 
ing sadly interrupted. Gregory had, in 3G5, brought 
about a reconciliation between his friend and Eusebius 
of Caesarea. The latter dying in 370, Basil succeeded 
him as archbishop, and Gregory came to visit him in 
the year following. There w as a contest betw een Basil 
and Anthimus, bishop of Tvana in Cappadocia, who 
pretended to be metropolitan of the province. Basil, 
in order to secure a useful ally, offered Gregory the 
bishopric of Sasima, a small unhealthy place on the 
frontier of the two provinces which divided Cappado- 
cia. Gregory, after declining for some time, finally 
accepted, and w r as ordained bishop in 372 ; but when 
pressed by Basil to take his part actively, he answered 
“that he would not take up arms in his quarrel w r ith 
Anthimus, as he did not wish to play the part either 
of battle-field or of prey.” Retiring to Nazianzum a 
bishop without a bishopric, he remained with his fa- 
ther, whom he assisted in the government of hisehurch. 
“ He taught the people, defended the Church against 
the vexations of the Roman governors, and by his elo- 
quence and virtue exerted that kind of religious su- 
premacy which, in the early ages, formed part of eccle- 
siastical power” (Villemain, Tableau de VE'oquence 
chnticnne au quatrieme siecle, p. 133). Losing his fa- 
ther and mother almost at the same time (A.D. 374), 
he retired to a convent of Seleueia. lie v r as still there, 
living in a calm wTiieh, as he said himself, “the hisses 
of heretics” could not disturb, w’hen he heard of the 
death of Basil in 370. It affected him deeply, and he 
wrote a letter of encouragement and consolation to 
Gregory of Nvssa, the brother of his deceased friend. 
The Church of Constantinople had been for forty 
years a prey to Arianism, when Gregory was chosen 
as the most proper person to bring it back to ortho- 
doxy. Though unwilling to be drawn out from the 
calm retirement lie so mueh enjoyed, Gregory permit- 
ted himself to be led bv the advice of his friends and 
the interests of the Church. His emaciated appear- 
ance, the marks of severe penance and of sickness, and 
his strange speech, made him at first a butt for the 
laughter and irony of the heretics at Constantinople. 
The orthodox had not a single church of their own in 
Constantinople ; Gregory was therefore obliged to 
preach at first in a private house, which gave place to 
a church named Anastasia^ in remembrance of the re- 
vival of faith. He taught 'and defended the Nicene 
Creed before crowded audiences attracted by his elo- 
quence. It is then he was surnamed the Theologian , 


on account of the profundity of his learning. His suc- 
cess excited his enemies still more against him, and 
his life was several times in danger. Peter, patriarch 
of Alexandria, who had appointed him bishop of Con- 
stantinople, sided afterwards against him, and favored 
the pretensions of a cynic philosopher called Maximus, 
who caused himself to be elected bishop of Constanti- 
nople (A.D. 380). Vainly did Theodosius cause St. 
Gregory to take possession of the church of St. Sophia 
at tlie head of a large troop of soldiers, assuring him 
of his protection, and causing a council assembled at 
Constantinople to confirm Gregory’s election as bishop, 
and annul that of Maxim us. He could not put an end 
to the intrigues and calumnies which pursued Grego- 
ry. Some bishops of Egypt and of Macedonia attack- 
ed the validity of his election on the plea that he w'as 
already bishop of Sasima, and that the canons forbade 
the transfer of a bishop from one see to another. Greg- 
ory offered to resign, saying, “ If my election is the 
cause of trouble, throw me into the sea like Jonas, to 
allay the storm, though it w r as not I who raised it.” 
This proposal was accepted with a haste which could 
not but w T ound the susceptibility of Gregory. Before 
leaving Constantinople he assembled the clergy and 
the people in the church of St. Sophia, and delivered 
his farewell address — the grandest of all his orations. 
“ Farewell,” said he at the close ; “ farewell, church of 
Anastasia, so called in remembrance of our pious trust; 
farewell, monument of our late victory, thou new’ Si- 
loa, where, after forty years’ wandering in the desert, 
w r e had for the first time settled the ark of the cove- 
nant ; farewell, too, thou grand and famous temple, 
our last trophy .... farewell to you all, holy 
abodes of faith .... farewell, holy apostles, celestial 
colony, my models in the combats I have sustained ; 
farewell, episcopal chair, post at ouee so envied and so 
full of perils; farewell, ministers of God at his holy 
table .... farewell, choir of the Nazarenes, harmony 
of psalms, pious watches, holiness of virgins, modes- 
ty of women, assemblies of widow’s and of orphans, 
glances of the poor turned to God and to me; fare- 
well, hospitable houses, friends of Christ who have 
succored me in mine infirmities. . . . Farewell, kings 
of the earth, palaees, retinue, and courtiers of kings, 
faithful, I trust, to your master, but for the most part, 
1 fear, faithless tow ards God . . . applaud, exalt unto 
heaven your new orator; the troublesome voice which 
displeased you is hushed. . . . Farewell, sovereign 
city, the friend of Christ, yet open to correction and 
repentance ; farewell, Eastern and Western world, for 
whose sake I have striven, and for whose sake I am 
now’ slighted. Most of all, farewell, guardian angels 
of this church, who protected me in my presence, and 
who will protect me in my exile; and thou, holy Trin- 
ity, my thought and my glcry, may they hold fast to 
thee, and mayest thou save them, save my people ! 
and may I hear daily that they are increasing in 
knowledge and in virtue.” On his way to exile 
Gregory stopped at Caesarea, w here he delivered a fu- 
neral oration on St. Basil. In the year 382 he retired 
to Arianzus for quiet and repose. In 383 Theodorus 
invited him to take part in a council held at Constan- 
tinople. lie declined, saying, “ To tell the truth, 
I will ahvavs avoid these assemblies of bishops ; I 
have never seen them lead to any good result, but 
rather increase evils instead of diminishing them. 
They serve only as fields for tournaments of words 
and the play of ambition.” He added that, at all 
events, his health would prevent him from attending. 
He remained in retirement until his death in 389. A 
garden which he cultivated, a fountain, and the shade 
of a few trees, composed all his enjoyments. He di- 
vided his time between prayer and the writing of 
poems, in which’ he expressed the thoughts, hopes, and 
longings of a mind naturally inclined to dreaminess 
and melancholy. He is one of the most polished 
among the sacred writers of the 4th century, and 


GREGORIUS NAZIANZENUS 995 GREGORIUS NEO-CAESARIENSIS 


ranks first after Chrysostom and Basil. The richness 
of his imagination, developed in the solitude in which 
a great part of his life was spent, gives to his writings 
a charming freshness of tone which is seldom met 
with in the writers of that age. II is letters are full 
of playful sprightliness, sometimes tinctured with a 
slight under -current of harmless iron}'. A severe 
critic might show some passages bordering on decla- 
mation and bombast. But these faults were general at 
the time in which he lived ; and a writer, however 
great, always bears more or less the imprint of his 
day. He is commemorated as a saint in the Koman 
Catholic Church on 31 av 9, in the Greek Church on 
the 25th and 30th of January. 

St. Gregory left a large number of poetical pieces. 
During the reign of Julian, when profane literature 
was a forbidden pursuit for Christians, Gregory, con- 
sidering it as a powerful aid to piety, attempted to 
supply the wants of his brethren by means of religious 
poems on the plan of the classics. He accused of stu- 
pidity and ignorance ( oKaioi Kcii dirathvToi) those 
who attempted to prevent the study of literature. 
“Most of his poetical works are religious meditations, 
which, in spite of the differences of time and manners, 
have still many points of affinity with the poetical rev- 
eries of our days of sceptical satiety and social prog- 
ress” (Villemain, Tableau de V Eloquence chretienne au 
IY me si'eck , p. 139). Gregory wrote also a large num- 
ber of discourses or orations , both while administering 
the diocese of Nazianzum for his father and while de- 
fending orthodoxy at Constantinople. Among these 
discourses are funeral addresses and panegyrics , e. g. 
those of Athanasius and Basil ; invectives , the two dis- 
courses against Julian; sermons on questions of mor- 
als, discipline, and dogmas. Most of those written in 
Constantinople, while he was opposing the Arians and 
Macedonians, arc of the latter kind. These discourses 
are fifty-three in number. Some critics claim that the 
45th, 47th, 49th, 50th, and 53d cannot be genuine. 
The Letters of Gregory amount to 242, on all subjects ; 
some of them are quite uniuteresting except as they 
contribute to throw light on the character of Gregory 
and of his age. Gregory of Nazianzus has often been 
named as the author of a Paraphrase on Ecclesiastes , 
which is now generally attributed to Gregory Thau- 
maturgus. The Poems of Gregory number 156, differ- 
ing very much from each other in length, subject, and 
metre ; we find among them religions meditations, de- 
scriptions, acrostics, epigrams, etc. lie also wrote 
228 small pieces, which were collected and published 
by Muratori in 1709. In some collections of his works 
is included a tragedy entitled Christ suffering (Xpioroc; 
7 rdo\(ov [ed. by Ellisscn, Leipz. 1855]), which is prob- 
ably not his. 

As a theologian, Gregory shows marks of the power- 
ful influence of Origen. As to the Trinity, he ear- 
nestly defended the Niccne doctrines ( Oraiiones , 27- 
31), and vindicated, against the Anollinarians, the hu- 
manity of Christ. In common with nearly all theolo- 
gians before Augustine, he maintained side by side the 
doctrines of the necessity of grace and the freedom of 
the human will. 

The first edition of the JTorAs of Gregory is that of 
Basle (1550, fol.) : it contains the Greek text, a Lat- 
in version, and the life of Gregor}' by Suidas and by 
Gregory the Presbyter. This edition is not much es- 
teemed. A better is that of Billius (Paris, 1609-11, 2 
vols. fol.; reprinted cum nods Pruned Morelli, etc., 
Paris, 1630, 2 vols. fol. ; and again at Cologne, 1690, 2 
vols. fol.), badly edited, and abounding in errors. The 
best edition is that of the Benedictines (Paris, vol. i, 
fol. edited by Clemencet, 1778; vol. ii, edited by Cail- 
lau, fol. 1840). It is also given in jMigne’s Patrologirc 
Curs . Complet. vols. xxxv-xxxviii (Paris, fol., v. y.). 
Many of his writings have been published separately. 
His Oration on the Nativity, and a number of his po- 
ems, are given in English by H. S. Boyd, The Fathers 


not Papists (new cd. Bond. 1834, 8vo). A selection of 
his works was published by Goldhorn (Leips. 1854). 
The best view of the life and theology of Gregory is to 
be found in Ullmann, Gregorius von Nazianz (Darmst. 
1825. 8vo) ; translated, but, unfortunately, without the 
dogmatical part, by G. V. Cox (Lond. 1857, l$mo). See 
Fabricius, Bibl. Greeca , viii, 383-389 ; Tillemont, Mem . 
pour sercir, etc., t. ix ; Neander, Ch. History, ii, 420; 
Neander, History of Dogmas, p. 262, 403; Lardner, 
J Yorks, iv, 285 sq. ; Clarke, Succession of Sacred Liter- 
ature, i, 308 (where the Orations are analyzed) ; Baur, 
Lehre von <7. D rein nigh it, i, 648; S chaff, Hist, of the 
Christian Church, iii, 908 sq. ; Boliringer, Kirche Christi 
in Biographieen , i, 2, 369 ; Hoet'er, Nouv. Biog. Generale, 
xxi, 837-846. 

Gregorius Neo-Caesariensis, or Thauma* 
turgus, received the latter surname from the miracles 
ascribed to him. His proper name was Theodorus. 
He was born in the 3d century, of rich and noble pa- 
rents, at Neo-Caesarea, in Pontus. lie was educated 
very carefully in the learning and religion of Pagan- 
ism by his father, who was a warm zealot; but losing 
this parent at fourteen years of age, his inclinations led 
him to Christianity. Having studied the law for some 
time at Alexandria and Athens, he accompanied his 
sister to Caesarea, and there beeame the pupil of Ori- 
gen, about A.D. 234. He continued five years under 
his tuition, during which he learned logic, physics, ge- 
ometry, astronomy, and ethics, and, what was of infi- 
nitely greater consequence, the knowledge of the true 
God and the Christian Seriptures. When Gregory re- 
turned to his native country he devoted himself to a 
private and retired life, but Phedinnis, bishop of Ama* 
sea, ordained him bishop of Neo-Ciesarea, in which, and 
the whole neighborhood, there were only seventeen 
Christians. Gregory Nvssen, who has written an ac- 
count of his life, says he was more perfectly instructed 
in the Christian doctrine by a vision from heaven, in 
which he heard and saw the Virgin Mary and St.John 
discoursing together of the Christian, faith ! When 
they disappeared, he wrote down carefully all they 
spoke, which, as Nvssen says, was preserved in Greg- 
ory’s own handwriting in the church of Neo-Caisarea 
in his time. There are other legends of miracles 
wrought by him, among them the following : On his 
way to take possession of his unpromising bishopric he 
was benighted, and obliged, through the inclemency of 
the weather, to take up his lodging in a heathen tem- 
ple, the daemon of which had been very remarkable for 
his frequent appearances to the priest, and for the ora- 
cles which lie delivered. Gregory and his companions 
departed from this place early in the morning, after 
which the priest performed the usual rites, but the dae- 
mon answered that “ he could appear no more in that 
place, because of him who had lodged there the preced- 
ing night.” The pagan priest besought Gregory to 
bring the deernon back. The saint laid on the altar a 
piece of paper, on which he had written, “ Gregory to 
Satan — enter.” The devils returned, and the pagan, as- 
tonished, was converted to Christianity. When Greg- 
ory arrived at the city a vast crowd of people came to- 
gether, to whom he preached the gospel, and numbers 
were converted. As the number of believers increased 
daily, he formed the design of building a church, which 
was soon effected, all cheerfully contributing both by 
labor and money. This was probably the first church 
ever erected for the sole purpose of Christian worship. 
After having converted all the Neo-Cajsareans except 
seventeen persons, he died full of faith and the Holy 
Spirit, rejoicing that he left no more unbelievers in the 
city than he found Christians at the commencement 
of his ministry. In the year 264 he attended at the 
synod at Antioch, where Paul of Samosata made a 
feigned recantation of his heretical opinions. Gregory 
died most probably in the following year, certainly be- 
tween A.D. 265 and 270. The many accounts of mir- 
acles ascribed to him do not rest upon the authority of 


GREGORIUS NYSSENUS 


996 


GREGORIUS NYSSENUS 


bis contemporaries. We are chiefly indebted for an 
account of them to Gregory of Nyssa, who flourished a 
hundred years after Thaumaturgus, who wrote a pan- 
egyric of him rather than a life, and who evidently re- 
corded every wonder of which he received a report 
without examination. Lardner, however, says that he 
will not assert that Gregor}’ worked no miracles. The 
age of miracles was not entirely concluded, and had 
tliere been no foundation in truth, the wonderful sto- 
ries relating to Gregory would not have been believed. 
He is commemorated in the Koman Catholic Church 
on the 17th of November. 

The creed of Gregory is very important, as showing 
us how clearly defined was at this time the faith of the 
orthodox. Its authenticity has been disputed, but it 
is received as genuine by Bishop Bull and Dr. Water- 
land : it is as follows: “There is one God, Father of 
the living Word, the substantial wisdom and power 
and eternal express image : perfect Parent of one per- 
fect, Father of the only begotten Son. There is one 
Lord, One of One, God of God, the express character 
and image of the Godhead, the effective word, the wis- 
dom that grasps the system of the universe, and the 
power that made every creature, true Son of the true 
Father, invisible of invisible, incorruptible of incorrup- 
tible, immortal of immortal, and eternal of eternal. 
And there is one Holy Ghost, having his subsistence 
from God, and shining forth by the Son (viz. to man- 
kind), perfect image of the perfect Son, life causal of 
all living, the holy fountain, essential sanctity, author 
of all sanctification; in whom God the Father is mani- 
fested, who is above all and in all, and God the Son 
who is through all. A perfect Trinity undivided, un- 
separated in glory, eternity, and dominion. There is, 
therefore, nothing created or servile in this Trinity, 
nothing adventitious that once was not, and came in 
after; for the Father was never without the Son, nor 
the Son without the Spirit, but this Trinity abides the 
same unchangeable and invariable forever.” Greg- 
ory’s works, so far as we know anything of them, are 
these : 1. A Panegyrical Oration in praise of Origen, 
pronounced in 239, still extant, and unquestionably his. 
Dupin says of it “that it is very eloquent, and that it 
may be reckoned one of the finest pieces of rhetoric in 
all antiquity.” It is the more admirable, because per- 
haps it is the first tiling of the kind among Christians. 
2. A Paraphrase of the Booh of Ecclesiastes , mentioned 
by Jerome in his catalogue, and quoted by him in his 
Commentary upon that book, and still extant. 3. Je- 
rome afterwards adds in his catalogue that Gregory 
wrote several epistles, of which, however, we have now 
only one remaining, called a Canonical Kpistle to an 
anonymous bishop, written in 258 or 2G2, consisting, 
as we now have it, of eleven canons, all allowed to be 
genuine except the last, which is doubted of, or plainly 
rejected, as no part of the original epistle, but since 
added to it. The editions of his works are, 1. 'That of 
Vossius (Mayence, 1004, 4to, with a Life of Gregory ') ; 
2. Opera omnia Gregor. Neoeces. Macarii et Basil ii, Gr. 
et Lat. (Paris, 1G22, fol.); 3. Migne’s edition, Patrol. 
Cursus Complete vol. x. This is the best edition. A 
life of Gregory has been published by Nic. Mar. Pal- 
lavieini (Lome, 101 1). His writings are also given 
in Bih. Max. Patrvm , vol. iii. See Lardner, 1 1 T orks, ii. 
008-642; Hook, Ecclesiastical Biography , v, 390; Du- 
pin, EecL Writers, cent, iii; Neander, Ch. History , i, 716- 
720 ; Eusebius, Eccl. JHst . bks. vi, vii ; Cave, Hist. IJt. 
anno 254 ; Fabricius, Bibl. Greeca, vii, 219 ; Bove, Biss, 
d-e Greg. Thaamat. (Jena, 1703, 4to); Greg. Nyssenus, 
Vita Greg. Thaumat. Opp. t. iii, p. 53G; Mosheim, Ch. 
Hist, i, 170. 

Gregorius Nyssenus ( Gregory of Nyssa), one 
of the fathers of the Eastern Church, was born at Ca> 
sarea in Cappadocia about 332. lie was a younger 
brother of Basil, enjoyed a liberal education under able 
masters, and distinguished himself by his proficiency 
in literature and science. He excelled in rhetoric, and 


was successful both as a professor and pleader. He 
married a woman of virtue and piety, named Theose- 
bia, of whom Gregory of Nazianzus speaks in high 
commendation. He appears to have officiated as a 
reader in a church, and to have been originally intend- 
ed for the ecclesiastical life, but his passion for rheto- 
ric, to the study of which he had devoted his youth, 
haunted him so incessantly that, unable to withstand 
its continual allurements, he, for a time, forsook his 
clerical duties, and gave lessons to youth in this his 
favorite art. Gregory of Nazianzus heard with grief 
of this dereliction in the brother of his friend, and wrote 
him a letter, still preserved (Epist. 43), which recalled 
him to duty. No sooner was Basil elevated to the 
episcopal chair of Caesarea in 370, than he summoned 
his brother Gregory to assist him in the duties of his 
new diocese; but the bishopric of Nyssa, a city of Cap- 
padocia, near Lesser Armenia, becoming vacant the fol- 
lowing year, Basil gave up the pleasure of his brother’s 
aid and society, and consecrated him to it against his 
will in 372. In this see he signalized his zeal in de- 
fence of the orthodox faith, in opposition to the Arians. 
He drew upon himself the vengeance of that party, and 
was banished from his see by the emperor Yalens about 
374. On the death of Yalens in 378, he was recalled by 
Gratian, and restored to the possession of his see. A 
council, probably that of Antioch, having ordered Greg- 
ory of Nyssa to reform the Church of Arabia, and Pal- 
estine bordering upon it, he visited Jerusalem and the 
holy places, as well to perform a vow as to settle peace 
and tranquillity among them who governed the Church 
of Jerusalem. For his greater convenience in this jour- 
ney the emperor allowed him the use of the public car- 
riages, so that, having a wagon at his own disposal, it 
served him and those who accompanied him both as a 
church and a monastery; they sang psalms, and ob- 
served their fasts as they travelled. He visited Beth- 
lehem, Mount Calvary, the holy Sepulchre, and the 
Mount of Olives; however, he was not much edified 
by the inhabitants of the country, who, he says, were 
very corrupt in their manners, and notoriously guilty 
of all sorts of crimes, especially murder. Therefore, 
being afterwards consulted by a monk of Cappadocia 
concerning the pilgrimage to Jerusalem, he declares 
“that he does not think it proper for such as have re- 
nounced the world, and have resolved to arrive at 
Christian perfection, to undertake these journeys. Ad- 
vise your brethren, therefore, rather to leave the body 
to go to the Lord, than to leave Cappadocia to go to Pal- 
estine.” This was the opinion of Gregory of Nyssa 
concerning pilgrimages. In 381 and the subsequent 
years, Gregory attended the Council of Constantino- 
ple. In tills city he pronounced the funeral oration 
of his sister Macrina, and three years afterwards he 
was deprived by death of his wife, a woman of many 
virtues, who, in her later years, devoted herself to re- 
ligions duties, and has been supposed by some to have 
become a deaconess. His own death took place in the 
beginning of the year 400. 

As a theologian, Gregory had great reputation in his 
age. Ilis theology shows independent and original 
thought, but contains many of the ideas of Origen. He 
maintained the Nicene doctrine of the Trinity, the doc- 
trine of Redemption, the freedom of the will, faith as 
the subjective, and the sacraments as the objective 
means of grace. His style is very uneven, lie was 
an abundant writer, but his abundance too often de- 
generated into diffuseness; his style drags; his illus- 
trations are often in questionable taste, and, being loo 
fully developed, fatigue the reader. When attempt- 
ing to be refined, he becomes subtile, and his grander 
passages border on bombast ; yet his works contain 
many passages full of elevated views and true beauty, 
and animated by a warmth of feeling reaching even to 
enthusiasm. An analysis of his writings may be found 
in Clarke, Succession of Sac. Lit. i, 354 sq. ; and in Du- 
piu, Hist, of Eccl. Writers , cent. iv. They may be di- 


GREGORIUS SYRACUSANUS 997 


GREGORY 


vided into, 1. Doctrinal (chiefly relating to the Arian 
controversy), 2. Exegctical ; 3. Practical treatises; 4. 
Discourses ; 5. Epistles and Panegyrics. Many of these 
have beem published in separate editions. The first 
edition of his collected Works appeared at Cologne 
(1537, fol.), then at Basle (15G2, 1571), and at Paris 
(1573 and 1603). Fronton le Due gave the first Greek 
and Latin edition (Paris, 1615, 2 vols. fol. ; an Appendix 
in 1 vol. fol. appeared in 1618). This edition was re- 
printed in 1638 (edited by Gretzer, 3 vols. fol.). It is 
handier, but not so neat and correct as that of 1615. 
New editions in Migne’s Patrol. Grcec. vols. xliv-xlvi 
(Par. 1846) , also by Oehler (Ilal. Sax. 1865 sq.). The 
oration against Arius and Sabellius, and that against 
the Macedonians, is in Mai’s Script. Yet. nova coll. 
vol. viii, and in vol. iv of the Nova Patrum Bibliotheca 
(Pom. 1847). Ceillier gives a long catalogue of the 
separate editions of Gregory’s writings in Hist. Gene- 
rate des Auteurs Sacres, vi, 119 sq. (Paris, 1860). De- 
cent issnes are, Gregorius Nyssenus, Dial, de anima 
et resurrectione , ed. lvrabinger (Leips. 1837, 8vo) ; Ora- 
Hones Catechet. ed. Krabinger (Munich, 1838, 8vo); Ora- 
tiones de Precatione, edit. Krabinger (Landshut, 1840, 
8vo). See Dupin, Eccl. Writers , cent, iii ; Hook, Eccl. 
Biog. vol. v; Neandcr, Ch. History , ii, 413 sq.; Lard- 
ner, Works, v, 295 sq. ; Cave, Hist. Lit. i, 249; Tille- 
mont, Memoires, t. ix ; Rupp, Gregor's von Nyssa Leben 
and Meimingen (Leips. 1834, 8vo) ;• Ileyns, Disputatio 
de Gregorio Nysseno (Leyden, 1835, 4to); Iloefer, Nom\ 
Biog. Generate, xxi, 846; Fabricius, Bibl. Grceca, edit. 
Harles, ix, 98 ; Bohringer, Kh’che Cliristi in Biograph. 

i, 2, 275 ; JMolIcr, Greg. Nyss. doctrinam de honiinis na- 
tura, etc. (Halle, 1854). 

Gregorius Syracusanus ( Gregory of Sicily, 
and surnamed Asbestas), was born about 820, and be- 
came bishop of Syracuse about 845. In consequence, 
it is said, of the invasion of the Arabs, he went to Con- 
stantinople soon after his appointment, for he was there 
in 847, when Ignatius was chosen patriarch. Gregory 
had strenuously opposed this election, and he then re- 
tired with some other prelates, who, taking his part, 
created a schism against Ignatius. The latter, in re- 
turn, deposed Gregory in a council held at Constanti- 
nople in 854, under the plea of profligacy. The depo- 
sition was confirmed b} T pope Benedict III. When 
Photius took the place of Ignatius, who w r as deposed in 
858, he caused himself to be consecrated by Gregory, 
thus openly recognising his ecclesiastical character in 
spite of his deposition. They v r erc both anathema- 
tized by the council held at Rome in 863, and thus the 
schism between the two churches was completed. Un- 
der these circumstances, the accusation of immorality 
preferred against Gregory by Roman Catholic writers 
is to be received with great caution. Photius appoint- 
ed him bishop of Nicrea in Bithynia in 878. He died 
about 880. Some have considered him as the “ Gre- 
gorius archiepiscopus Sicilice ” mentioned by Allatins 
{De Methodiorum Scriptis, in the Concilium decern Vir- 
ginian Sti Mcthodii Martyris, Rome, 1656) as having 
written an “ Gratia longa in S. Mcthodium .” See 
Mongitor, Bibliotheca Sicuht, i, 263; Cave, Hist. Litt. 

ii, 40, 76; Jiiger, Ifistoirc de Photius, i, 1 ; ii ; Smith, 
Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. and Myth, ii, 310 ; Hocfer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxi, 877. 

Gregorius Turonensis {Gregory of Tours), an 
eminent prelate and scholar of the 6th Gentlin’-, call- 
ed “the father of French history,” was horn of a 
noble family in Auvergne, A.D. 540, educated by his 
uncle, the bishop of Clermont. He w\as ordained dea- 
con in 569, and bishop of Tours 573. He was strenu- 
ous in upholding the orthodox faith, and, though twen- 
ty-two years a bishop, he was only fifty-five years 
old when he died, A.D. 595. lie was a man of active 
mind and habits, and much engaged in the theological 
disputes of the time. His ureat work, Annales Fran- 
corwn {History of the French ), is as barbarous in style 


as it is full of credulity in narration : it begins at the 
creation, and comes down to his ow r n times (Paris, 1552 ; 
Basil. 8vo, 1568 ; Paris, 1G10, Svo ; but the best edition 
is that edited by Du Chesne in his Script. Franc, tom. 
i, Paris, 1636). He wrote also Miraculorum libri vii 
{Seven Books of Miracles ), of which the first contains 
an account of the miracles of some of the primitive 
Christians as well as of Christ ; the second, the miracles 
of St. Justin ; the four next, the miracles of St. Martin 
of Tours ; the seventh , the lives of some monks, and an 
account of the Seven Sleepers. While these wwitings 
show an honest simplicity on the part of Gregory, they 
manifest also his excessive credulity. The best edi- 
tion of his collected works is Greg. Opera, ed. Ruinart 
(Paris, 1099, fol.). The Historia Francorwn is given 
in the Bib. Max. Patrol, vol. xi, in Pertz, Monumenta 
Germania? historica, in a new German version, Kirchl. 
Gesehichte d. Franken (Wiirzburg, 1853, 18mo), and by 
Gicsebrecht (Berl. 1851, 2 vols.). See Lobell, Gregor, 
v. Tours und seine Zeit (Leips. 1835, Svo ; 2d edit. 1867) ; 
Kries, de Greg. Turon.vita et scriptis (Vrat. 1839, Svo) ; 
Mosheim, Church History, cent, vi, pt. ii, ch. ii, note 
42; Clarke, Success. Sacred Literature, ii, 344; Nean- 
der, Ch. Hist. vol. iii ; Dupin, Eccles. Writers , t. v. ; Hist. 
Litt. de la France, iii, 372 ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gener. 
xxi, 856. 

Gregorius op Armenia {Gregory Illuminator ; 
Greek Photistes, Armenian Lusaworicli), first bishop of 
Armenia and apostle of Christianity in that country 
(3d century). Others had preached there before him, 
but he was the first to orgauizc Christianity thorough- 
ly. Accurate information about him is wanting. The 
Bollandists {Acta Sanctorum, September, vol. viii) give 
a life of him professedly w ritten by bis contemporary, 
Agathangelus, but it is clearly spurious. lie is the 
author of several Homilies, which have been published 
by the Mekhitarists (Venice, 1837). His name is held 
in just veneration in the Eastern churches, and he is 
also a saint in the Roman Calendar, Sept. 30. The 
United Armenians in Constantinople claim to possess 
his relics, which in August, 1869, were transferred 
from one church to another. — Iloefer, Nouvelle Bioyr. 
Generate, xxi, 863 (wdiere the traditional account is 
fully given); Mosheim, Church History, ii, 225; Malan, 
Life and Times of Gregory Illuminator (London, 1868). 
See Armenia. 

Gregorius of B^etica, bishop of Illibcris (Elvira 
in the ancient Baetioa, now Andalusia), 4th century, 
lie is mentioned by Jerome {Chronicon, anno 371) as 
a vigorous opponent of the Arians, who persecuted him, 
and strove, but without success, to drive him from his 
sec. Gregory wrote several works, and among them 
a treatise de Fide, which Jerome styles elegans libellus. 
The treatise de Fide contra Arianos, w r hich is given as 
Gregory’s in some editions of the fathers, is by Faus- 
tinas (q. v.). — Tillcmont, Memoires, x, 727. 

Gregory of Heimburg, one of the boldest op- 
ponents of papal encroachments in his time, was born 
at Wiirzburg in the early part of the 15th century, 
lie studied in the University of Wiirzburg, and took 
the degree of LL.D. about 1430. We next find him at 
the Council of Basle in company w T ith /Eneas Sylvius 
(afterwards pope Pius II), who, as appears from his 
letter to Heimburg in Goldast’s Monarchia S. Rom. 
Imperii {vol. ii, p. 1G32 sq.), fully appreciated the char- 
acter and- talents of his colleague. /Eneas took Greg- 
ory as his secretary, and the two opposed very suc- 
cessfully the papal encroachments on the domain of 
the temporal powder. Heimburg, however, soon re- 
tired to Nuremberg, where he was elected syndic, and 
acquired such reputation that all important questions 
in civil or ecclesiastical law were referred to his arbi- 
tration. His relations with /Eneas Sylvius changed 
in proportion as the latter rose in the Church, and 
when he was finally raised to the see of Rome, the 
friends found themselves in complete opposition to 


GREGORY 


998 


GREGORY 


each other. When pope Eugene IV deposed Thoo- 
doric, archbishop of Cologne, and Jacob, archbishop 
of Treves, on account of the firmness with which they 
carried out the principles of the Council of Basle, the 
German electors sent lleimburg at the head ot a depu- 
tation to the pope. He spoke courageously against 
the usurpations of the Roman see. Eugene answered 
that he would send an answer “worthy of himself.” 
This answer did not satisfy the deputation, and, on 
their return to Frankfort, they gave an unfavorable 
account of their mission, while Cregory, about the 
same time, wrote his most remarkable works against 
the papacy, entitled A dmonitlo de injuslis usurpation- 
ibus Pa pit rum Rom. ad Imp ratores, reges el prindpes 
Christ ianos , sive Confutatio Primaius Rupee (in Goldast, 
Monorchia S. Rom. Imperii, i, 557). In this work he 
censures the usurpations of the papaey in the strongest 
terms, substantiating his reproofs by Scripture and 
history. Gregory then entered the service of the 
grand duke Sigismund of Austria, and in this position 
continued to urge war against the papaey, soon after 
represented by Pius 11. The latter, when ascending 
the papal chair, had formed the plan of engaging Ger- 
many in a crusade, and in this view convoked a meet- 
ing of the German prinees at Mantua, lleimburg ap- 
peared at it as representative of Sigismund, and suc- 
cessfully opposed the project of Pius, who never for- 
gave him for it. fie soon found an opportunity for 
revenge. Cardinal Nicholas, of Cusa, also a former 
friend of lleimburg, was appointed bishop of Brixen, 
against the w ishes of Sigismund. Difficulties arose 
between them, and Sigismund took the bishop prison- 
er. Pius II immediately (J-une 1, 14G0) excommuni- 
cated the grand duke, who appealed to a general eoun- 
eil by the intermediation of Gregory, Aug. 13, 14G0 (see 
Goldast, as above, ii, 1576), and caused the appeal to 
be posted on the door of a number of churches through- 
out Italy. Gregory of lleimburg posted it himself on 
the doors of the church in Florence, and was imme- 
diately excommunicated also. Pius II even sent a 
brief to the magistrates of Nuremberg, Oct. 18, 14G0, 
demanding that Gregory should be secured at any cost. 
The latter appealed to a future council (see Goldast, as 
above, p. 1592), showing how the pope abused his pow- 
er, and strongly defending the proposition that a coun- 
cil is superior to the pope, and that therefore an ap- 
peal to a general council is legal. The apostolic refer- 
endary, Theodorus Lalitis, bishop of Feltri, wrote a 
refutation of Gregory’s appeal (Goldast, p. 1595), but 
the latter answered him triumphantly in his Apologia 
contra detractationes et blasphemias Theod. Radii (Gol- 
dast, p. 14G1). Against Nicholas of Cusa, whom he ac- 
cused of having deserted his former principles, he 
wrote a vigorous attack in his Invectiva in Rcver. Pa- 
trem , Dom. Nicolmm de Cusa (Goldast, p. 1G2G). In 
the mean time, Diether, archbishop of Mentz, had also 
been arbitrarily deposed by Pius II in 14G1, when hard- 
ly installed in office ; Gregory of lleimburg imme- 
diately took up his defence, but he soon found himself 
entirely unsupported. Sigismund made his peace with 
Pius bv the mediation of the emperor Frederick, and 
obtained absolution in 11G4 ; Diether submitted to the 
pope, and renounced his archbishoprie. Gregory then 
retired to Bohemia, where he continued to make war 
against the pope under the protection of George Po- 
diebrad, for whom he wrote several controversial es- 
says (in Ersehenlor, Gesek. von Breslau , pub. by Ku- 
nisch, Breslau, 3<s27). After the death of his proteetor 
he fixed his residence at Dresden, and, by the media- 
tion of duke Albert, obtained absolution from pope 
Sixtus IV in 1472. lie soon afterwards died (Aug. 
3472), and was buried in the Chureh of Sophia, in 
Dresden. II is collected works were published under 
the title Script a nervosa justitiwqne plena , ex manu- 
scripts nunc prirnnm eruta (Frcft. 160X). * See Hagen, 
in the Zeitschrift Braga (Heidelberg, 3899, ii, 434 sqA ; 
Ullmann,ite/bm«/om» vor d. Reformation (Hamburg, 


1841, i, 212 sq.). — Ilerzog, Real- Encyldopw lie , v, 347; 
Brockhaus, Gregor von lleimburg (Lcipz. 1861). 

Gregory, the patriarch of the Bohemian Brethren. 
Among the earnest-minded Ilussites of the Calixtine 
party, which began, about 1453, to form around Rokv- 
can, elected but never consecrated archbishop of 
Prague, and to listen with enthusiasm to his sermons 
on the necessity of a reformation, the most prominent 
was Gregory, surnamed “the Patriarch.” The time 
and place of his birth are unknown. He was the son 
of a Bohemian knight, and the nephew of Rokyean, 

. whose sister was his mother. Disappointed in his un- 
cle, who w r as not willing to be a reformer praetieallv, 
however much he theorized on the subject, he retired, 
with a number of his friends, to the barony of Lititz, 

| and there founded in 1457 the Church of the Bohe- 
mian Brethren, or Unitas Fratnim. Aeeepting no ee- 
elesiastieal offiee in the same, he remained merely a 
lay elder, but was the life and soul of the organiza- 
tion. In its interests lie w'rote and published many 
letters, doetrinal treatises, and apologetic works, near- 
ly all of which have perished. His doetrinal tenden- 
cies were derived mainly from Peter Chelcicky, a Bo- 
hemian writer, who inveighed with stern rigor, from 
out of an isolated retreat, against the corruptness of that 
I age. (For particulars about Chelcicky, see Gillette's 
j article on the Taborites and the Germ of the Moravian 
I Church , in the Presbyterian Review of July, 18G4.) In 
! consequence, his views of Christian discipline grew to 
be extreme, and more than puritanical. These he 
impressed upon the Church. Some of their most sa- 
lient points were the following: men of rank must 
strip themselves of t he same, and lay down every 
worldly offiee, before they ean be received into the 
Church ; no member is allow ed to go to law', or to tes- 1 
tifv before a civil court ; judicial oaths are forbidden ; 
no member may keep an inn, or engage in any trade 
calculated to advance luxury. His object was to pre- 
| serve the Chureh unspotted from the world, amid the 
' fearful degeneracy which prevailed. At the time of 
his death, which oeeurred in 1473, at Brandeis, on the 
Adler, in Bohemia, these and other similar regulations 
were in full force. Twenty-one years later, however, 
in 1491, they were formally abrogated, and a more lib- 
eral policy was introduced. In the first persecution 
i (13 Gl) which came upon the Brethren, Gregory was 
frightfully tortured on the rack. — Palaekv’s Geschichte 
ran Bohmen , vol. vi, eh. vii, wliieli work denies tl:at 
Gregory w r as the nephew of Rokyean ; Gindely’s Ge- 
sehiehte der Bbhmischen Brihler , vol. i, eh. i iii ; Cro- 
ger’s Geschichte der alien Brihlerkirche , vol. i, ch. i- 
iii ; Benham’s Notes on the Origin and Episcopate <f the 
Bohemian Brethren , p. 1-120. (E. de S.) 

Gregory, patriarch of Constantinople, was born at 
Calavrita (Arcadia) about 1740. lie studied in the 
schools of Dimitzana (Morea), Athos, Patmos, and 
Smyrna; entered the Church, and, after being suc- 
cessively ordained deaeon and priest, was, while yet 
quite a young man, appointed metiopolitan of Smyr- 
na. Most of the churches of the diocese were in ru- 
ins, and the Turks opposed their restoration, yet he suc- 
ceeded in fitting some for divine worship, and endeared 
himself greatly to the Greek population by his zeal 
and virtues. In 1795 he was appointed patriarch of 
Constantinople. When the expedition of Napoleon I 
against Egypt took place, the Turks accused Gregor}” 
of favoring the French, and deposed him. lie with- 
drew' to a convent on Mount Athos, where he busied 
himself not only in writing religious hooks, but in 
learning the art of printing. Being soon after reap- 
pointed patriarch, he established a printing-office in 
the episcopal palace. II is duties were interrupted by 
the political revolutions of 1808, when lie was deposed 
on a charge of favoring Russia. He had finally been 
reappointed a third time patriarch, when the invasion 
i of the Dauubian provinces by Ypsilanti in 1821 led 


GREGORY 


999 


GREGORY 


to the rising of the Greeks. Constantinople was their 
supposed aim, and it was rumored that the Greeks of 
that city would rise, murder the sultan, and restore 
the throne of Constantine. The Turkish soldiery were 
daily killing the Greeks in the streets of Constantino- 
ple, and the patriarch’s palace was pointed at as the 1 
arsenal where Christians kept their ammunition. The 
position of the Greek clergy, in view of this revolu- 
tion, which announced itself as a religious one, became 
daily more critical. Gregory, following the traditions 
of his Church, which had always enjoined obedience 
to the temporal powers, excommunicated the leaders 
of the insurrection. He was intrusted with the custo- 
dy of the Morousi family, the head of which had been 
killed as an insurgent. The priest to whose charge 
Gregory committed them allowed them to escape, and 
from that moment Gregory foresaw the fate which 
aw r aited him. Pressed to fty by his friends, he refused 
to leave his post, and on Easter celebrated public wor- 
ship with all the splendor and solemnity habitual on 
that occasion among Eastern Christians. lie was ar- 
rested on leaving the church, thrown into prison, and 
a few hours later hanged in front of the church as an 
originator of the insurrection. The chief members of 
the synod shared his fate, or were thrown into pris- 
on. After remaining oil the gallows for three days 
the body of the patriarch was throwm into the sea bv 
the Jews, but was taken out, put on hoard of a vessel, 
and sent to Odessa, where it was buried will great 
pomp, June 28. lie compiled a Greek Lexicon, of 
which, however, only two volumes have appeared 
(Constantinople, 181'.)). See Constantin (Economos, 
Oraison furiebre du 'patriarchs Gregoire ; Pouqueville, 
Hist, de la Regeneration de la Grece. — Hocfer, A T out\ 
Biog . Generale , xxi, 880 sq. 

Gregory I, Pope, commonly called Gregory the 
Great, great-grandchihl of pope Felix 1 1, was born at 
Pome about o il. Having received an education suit- 
able to his rank, he became a member of the senate, 
and filled other employments in the state. The em- 
peror Justin 11 appointed him prefect or governor of I 
Pome (A.D. 578). This office he quitted soon after 
the death of his father, when he came into the posses- 
sion of immense wealth, the greater part of which he , 
devoted to the establishment of monasteries, six of 
which he founded in Sicily, and one at Rome, dedica- 
ted to St. Andrew', into which he retired himself, and 
was soon after ordained a deacon. Pelagius II sent 
him (about A.D. 578) as his nuncio to Constantinople 
to secure the favor of the emperor, w T ho had been alien- 
ated by the ordination of the pope without the impe- 
rial consent. He succeeded in his mission. On his 
return he assumed the government of his own monas- 
tery of St. Andrew, and at the same time was secreta- 
ry to the pope. On the death of Pelagius, Gregory 
was chosen pope by the clergy and the people, and, 
much against his will, this election was confirmed by 
the emperor Maurice (A.D. 590). He was installed as 
pope Sept. 3, 595. 

No sooner w r as the ordination completed than, ac- 
cording to custom, the new pope drew up his confes- 
sion of faith, and sent it io the other patriarchs, viz. to 
the patriarchs of Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, 
and Jerusalem. In this confession he professed to re- 
ceive the four Gospels, the first four Councils, to rever- 
ence the fifth, and to condemn the Three Chapters. He 
adds, “ Whoever presumes to loosen the persons w'honi 
the councils have bound, or to bind those whom the 
councils have loosened, destroys himself and not them.” 
Thus is it apparent that even in the 6th century the 
authority of the councils was equal to that of the holy 
Scriptures. His first object after his promotion was 
the better regulation of his own see and household, 
and especially of the Sicilian churches, which the 
Council of Nice had placed more immediately under 
the see of Rome than any others; the African Dona- 
tists and Manichteans also claimed his attention, and 


the Jews experienced some degree of favor from him. 
He assisted Theodolinda, queen of the Longobaids, in 
converting that people to the Catholic faith. 11c like- 
wise sent missionaries into Sardinia, and zealously 
supported the mission to England to bring the British 
into relations w r ith Rome. It w r as previous to his ex- 
altation to the pontifical chair that, seeing one day in 
the slave-market at Rome some Anglo-Saxon children 
exposed for sale, and being struck by their comely ap- 
pearance, he is said to have exclaimed, “They would 
be indeed not Angli, but angels, if they were Chris- 
tians,” and from that time he engaged his predecessor, 
Pelagius, to send missionaries to England. See Eng- 
land, Church of. At home lie exerted himself 
strenuously for the restoration of clerical discipline. 
The celibacy of the clergy w r as riveted upon the Rom- 
ish system by the measures taken by Gregory. His 
course of action invariably w T as directed to strengthen 
the pow er of the Roman see ; and, in fact, he was the 
! father of the mediaeval Roman system. He held mo- 
nastic institutions in great favor, made strict rules 
1 concerning them, and granted them special privileges. 
I bis feature of his career gained him the title of pater 
monaehornm . One of the marked events of his pon- 
tificate w-as his contest wdth John, patriarch of Con- 
| stantinople, who had assumed the title of (Ecumenical, 
or universal Bishop (A.D. 595), which Gregory called 
“proud, heretical, blasphemous, antichristian, and di- 
abolical” ( Epist . 5, 18), and assumed to himself, in op- 
position, the title of “Servant of Servants” ( Servus 
I servorum Domini). “ Whom do you imitate,” says he, 
addressing the patriarch, “in assuming that arrogant 
title? Whom but him who, swelled with pride, ex- 
alted himself above so’ many legions of angels, his 
I equals, that he might be subject to none, and all might 
he subject to him ?” It was then, in the opinion of 
I Gregory, imitating Lucifer for any bishop to exalt him- 
self above his brethren, and to pretend that all other 
bishops w’ere subject to him, himself being subject to 
none. And has not this been for many ages the avow- 
ed pretension and claim of the popes ? “ We declare, 

say, define, and pronounce it to be of necessity to sal- 
vation for every human creature to be subject to the 
Roman pontiff,” is a decree issued by Boniface VI II 
in the fourteenth century. “The apostle Peter,” 
continues Gregory, “was the first member of the uni- 
versal Church. As for Paul, Andrew, and John, 
they w'ere only the heads of particular congregations ; 
but all were members of the Church under one head, 
and none would ever be called universal.” The mean- 
ing of Gregory is obvious, viz. that the apostles them- 
selves, though heads of particular congregations or 
churches, were nevertheless members of the Church 
universal, and none of them ever pretended to he the 
head of the whole Church, or to have power and au- 
thority over the whole Church, that being peculiar to 
Christ alone. This agrees with what lie had said be- 
fore, addressing himself to the patriarch, viz. “If 
none of the apostles would be called universal, what 
will you answer on the last day to Christ, the head of 
the Church universal? Yon who, by arrogating that 
name, strive to subject all his members to yourself?” 
For it was not the bare title of universal bishop that 
thus alarmed Gregory, but the universal power and 
| authority which he apprehended his rival aimed at in 
assuming that title. Gregory adds : “ But this is the 
! time which Christ himself foretold ; the earth is now 
| laid w r aste and dcstro}'cd with the plague and the 
sword; all things that have been predicted are now 
accomplished ; the king of pride, that is Antichrist, is 
at hand ; and what I dread to say, an army of priests 
I is ready to receive him ; for they who were chosen to 
I point out to others the way of humility and meekness 
are themselves now' become the slaves of pride and 
ambition.” Here Gregory treats the bishop of Con- 
I stantinople as the forerunner of Antichrist for taking 
i upon him the title of universal bishop. 


GREGORY 


1000 


GREGORY 


In the rear 59G, Gregory sent Augustine, abbot of 
his own monastery of St. Andrew at Rome, to convert 
those of the English who yet remained heathens, and 
under his auspices Christianity was established in the 
northern parts of the island. See Augustine; and 
England, Church of. 

In several contests with the emperor Maurice, Greg- 
ory avowed his obligation to submit in temporal ques- 
tions to the imperial commands. There was a long 
step to take between Gregory I and Gregory VII. 
See Papacy. In the year GUI the centurion Phocas 
rebelled against Maurice, slew him and his family 
atrociously, and usurped the throne. “Never,” says 
Maimbourg, “was there a more infamous tyrant than 
this wicked man” (IJist. dn Pontif de St. Gregoire , p. 
179, 181). The greatest stain upon the pontiiicate of 
Gregory is that, instead of hurling his papal anathemas 
against Phocas, he flattered the murderer, and praised 
God for his accession to the throne. “The Almighty 
has chosen you and put you on the throne to banish 
by your merciful disposition all our griefs. . . . Let 
the heavens rejoice ; let the earth leap for joy. . . .” 
It is poor excuse given by some of the Roman writers 
in Gregory’s behalf that Maurice had sided against the 
pope in his disputes with the patriarch of Constantino- 
ple. Phocas, in return, established the supremacy of 
the see of Rome over all other sees. 

The last years of Gregory’s life were passed in great 
suffering from gout and other diseases, but he retained 
his vigor of mind and will to the end. He died March 
12, A.D. G04. Gregory’s career presents many con- i 
tradictions. He was a man of great natural kindness, 
of indomitable energy, and determined will. His life 
was entirely devoted to the interests of the papal see, 
which, in his mind, were identical with the interests i 
of the kingdom of Christ. If he did not, as has been [ 
charged, burn the Palatine library, he despised and 
discountenanced classical learning. His special at- 
tention was given to the Roman liturgy : he reformed 
the Sacramentary of Gelasius, and put the order of the 
mass (Canon missee) very nearly into the shape in 
which it now exists. See Mass. Besides other less 
important ceremonies, added to the public forms of 
prayer, he made it his chief care to reform the psalmo- 
dy, being excessively fond of sacred music, lie ar- 
ranged and improved the chants in use, and composed 
others for the psalms, the hymns, the prayers, the 
verses, the canticles, the lessons, the epistles, the gos- 
pels, the prefaces, and the Lord’s prayer. He like- 
wise instituted an academy for chanters, for all the 
clerks, as far as the deacons exclusively; he gave 
them lessons himself; and the bed in which he contin- 
ued to chant in the midst of his last illness was pre- 
served with great veneration in the palace of St.John 
Lateran for a long time, together with the whip with 
which he used to threaten the young clerks and sing- 
ing-boys when they sang out of tune. See Grego- 
rian (’HAN'T. 

In theology Gregory was a moderate Augustinian : 
he held to predestination, but not an unconditional 
predestination. He held also to the value of good 
works and penance as restoratives ; and, in fact, he fur- 
nished a basis for the later system of works of super- 
erogation, etc. lie may be called the inventor of the 
doctrine of Purgatory, and of the modern Romish doc- 
trines of Masses and Transnbstantiation. The better 
side of his life and character is set forth strikingly by 
Neander in his I)< nkwiirdigkeitcn. The following ex- 
tract will show how far later bishops of Rome have 
wandered from the spirit of the earlier ones as to the 
use of the Scriptures: “It was Gregory’s strenuous 


tenanee. But when, by continual intercourse, we let 
it pass into our being, the confidence engendered by 
such communion enables us to penetrate into its spirit.’ 
•Often,’ he observes elsewhere, ‘when wc do some- 
thing, we believe it to be meritorious. But if we re- 
turn to the word of God, and understand its sublime 
teaching, we perceive how far behind perfection we 
stand.’ A bishop whom Gregor}- advised to study the 
Scriptures had excused himself on the plea that Jhe 
troubles of the times would not permit him to read. 
Gregory showed him the barrenness of this excuse, 
referring him to Rom. xv, 4. ‘If,’ he replied, ‘the 

holy Scripture is written for our consolation, we should 
read it more the more we feel oppressed by the burden 
of the times’ ” (Neander, Light in Dark Places , N. Y. 
p. 127). 

Gregory was a very voluminous writer. His letters 
amount to eight hundred and forty ; and besides them 
he wrote a Comment on the Book of Job, comprised in 
thirty-six books ; a Pastoral , or a treatise on the du- 
ties of a pastor, consisting of four parts, and, as it 
were, of four different treatises ; twenty -two Homilies 
on the prophet Fzekiel ; forty Homilies on the Gospels, 
and four books of Dicdogues. The Comment on the 
Book of Job is commonly styled Gregory’s Morals of 
Job (Moralia), being rather a collection of moral prin- 
ciples than an exposition of the text. It is translated 
into English in the Library of the Fathers (Oxford, 4: 
vols. 8vo). That work and the Pastoral were ancient- 
ly, and still are, reckoned among the best writings of 
the later fathers. “The Pastoral, in particular, was 
held in such high esteem by the Gallican Church that 
all bishops were obliged by the canons of that Church 
to be thoroughly acquainted with it, and punctually 
to observe the rules it contained ; nay, to remind them 
of that obligation, it was delivered into their hands at 
the time of their ordination. As for the dialogues, 
they are filled with alleged miracles and stories so 
grossly absurd and fabulous that it would be a rejec- 
tion on the understanding and good sense of this preat 
pope to think that he really believed them ; the rather 
as for many of them lie had no better vouchers than 
old, doting, and ignorant people. He was the first, 
as has been said, who discovered purgatory, and it was 
by means of the apparitions and visions which he re- 
lates in his dialogues that he first discovered it ; so 
that the Cliureh of Rome is probably indebted to some 
old man or old woman for one of the most lucrative 
articles of her whole creed. In this work Gregoiy 
observes that greater discoveries were made in his 
time concerning the state of departed souls than in all 
the preceding ages together, because the end of this 
world was at hand, and the nearer we came to the 
other the more we discovered it ! ” H is liturgical works 
are (1) Liber Sacrament or um ; (2) B(?iedictionale ; (3) 
Liber A ntiphonarins ; (4) Liber Responsalis. There 
have been more than twenty editions of liis collected 
works. The best editions are the Benedictine (Paris, 
1705, 4 vols. fob, and also Venice, 17G8-7G, 17 vols. 
4to), and in Mignc’s Patrol. (Paris, 1849, 5 vols. 4to). 
A recent edition of his Pastoral lias been published 
by Westhof (De pastorali cum, M iinster, 18G0). Fuller 
accounts of Gregory and his times are given in Lau, 
Gregor /, nach seinem Lebcn und seintr Lthre (Lips. 
1845); Margraff, De Greg . I vita, dissert, hist orica (Berl. 
1845) ; Pfaliler, Greg. d. Crosse (Frankf. 1852, 2 vols.). 
See also Maimbourg, IHst . de Saint G. le Grand (Par. 
1G8G); Wiggcrs, De Gregorio Magno (Rostock, 1838 
sq., 2 parts); Neander, Church History, vol. iii passim ; 
Mosheim, Church Hist. cent, vi, part ii, cb. ii, note 29; 
Hasc, Church History, § 130 ; Hook, Keel. Biog. v, 497 ; 
Clarke, Success'm of Sac. Lit. ii, 854; Baylc, Diction - 
ary , s.v. ; Lupin, Fcclesiastical Writers (7th century); 
Hoefer, Xonr. Biog. Generate, xxi, 789; Milman, Latin 
Bower, Lives of the Popes , vol. 

413, 418 ; Meth - 


endeavor to extend the study of the Scriptures among i 
the clergy and the laity, lie says in a sermon, ‘As 
we see the face of strangers, and know not their, hearts j 

until these are opened to us by confidential intercourse, ! Christianity, i, 429-432 ; 
so, if only the history be regarded in the divine ii ; Neander, Hist, of Dogmas, p. 385, 
word, nothing else appears to us but the outward coun- odist Quarterly Bevieic, 1845, p. 524. 


GREGORY 


1001 


GREGORY 


II, Pope, was a Roman by birth, and of a patrician 
family. He was early set apart for the clerical life, 
and educated under the eye of Sergius I, in whose 
time he was librarian to the Roman see. Afterwards 
he went with Constautine as deacon to Constanti- 
nople, and succeeded to the pontificate on Constan- 
tine’s death, A.D. 715. He was a strenuous sup- 
porter of the powers of the papal see, and did much to 
establish its supremacy. 1 1 ini self a Benedictine, he 
restored the monastery at Monte Cassino, under the 
severest rule of St. Benedict, as an example to other 
monasteries. In the year 727 began the famous con- 
test between the emperor Leo Isauricus with th a Icono- 
clasts, or Image-breakers, on one side, and Gregory II, 
with the Iconoduli, or Image- worshippers, on the other: 
the pope anathematized the emperor, and condemned 
the council he had held (to abolish the worship of im- 
ages), abused his name, vilified his actions, and sum- 
moned the French to attack his authority in Italy. 
He died A.D. 731. His writings arc of no great ac- 
count: fifteen Letters , a Memorial , and a Liturgy are 
preserved in the Biblioth. Patrum , vol. ix. See Mos- 
heim, Ch. IJist. cent, viii, pt. ii, ch. ii ; Cave, Hist. Lit. 
i, G20 ; Gieseler, Church Jlist. per. iii, div. i, ch. ii, § 4 ; 
Dupin, Eccles. Writers, cent. viii. 

III, Pope, a native of Syria, succeeded Gregory 
II in 731. He was as great a favorer of image-wor- 
ship as his predecessor, and contended, with all weap- 
ons, against the Iconoclasts (q. v.), and against the 
Byzantine court. He found considerable difficulty 
in maintaining his ground against the warlike prince 
Lnitprand, and had recourse to the stratagem of fo- 
menting discords among the Lombards themselves. 
His reign was an epoch in the temporal power of the 
popes : lie was the first to rule the exarchate of Ra- 
venna as sovereign, and he obtained by his legates 
(the first sent to France) the homage of Charles Mar- 
tel, who, however, could not aid him with material 
force. He died Nov. 28, 741. Some of his Epistles re- 
main. See Dupin, Eccles . Writers, cent. viii. 

IV, Pope, a native of Rome, made pope A.D. 827. 
By taking, in 833, the part of the three rebellious 
sons of Louis le Debonnaire against their father, this 
prelate embroiled himself much with his clergy, es- 
pecially those of France, who, favoring the cause of 
Louis, refused to receive either him or his decrees. 
Gregory wrote a Letter to them, which is among Ago- 
bard’s Works, which shows him to be arbitrary and 
tyrannical, claiming obedience to him, though against 
the commands of their prince. There are three other 
Letters in Labbe, ConciL vol. vii, and Baluzc, Miscell., 
which evince the same spirit of grasping dominion. 
It was this pope who made the feast of All Saints gen- 
eral throughout the Western Church. He died A.D. 
844. — Clarke, Succession of Sacred Lit. vol. ii ; Baro- 
nius, Annales, t. xiv. 

V (Bruno). Pope, was a native of Germany, son of 
the duke Otho of Carinthia, and nephew of Otho III, 
king of Germany. The latter caused him to be elected 
pope May 17, 996, when he was only 24 years of age. 
Eight days after, Gregory, in return, crowned his uncle 
Emperor of the West. As soon, however, as Otho had 
reerossed the Alps, Creseentius, a powerful senator, noted 
for his opposition to the previous pope (John XT'), fo- 
mented a revolution, took the title of consul, drove out 
Gregory, and appointed in his place a Greek of low birth, 
Philagathos, bishop of Piacenza, who took the name of 
John XVI. The Council of Pavia (997) excommuni- 
cated both Creseentius and the anti-pope. Otho march- 
ed against Rome, and John XVI was made prisoner 
while attempting to escape. The servants of the em- 
peror tore out his tongue, his nose, and his eyes, and 
Gregor}' caused him to be paraded through the streets 
of Rome covered with the insignia of his office torn 
into tatters, and sitting backward upon an ass. Cres- 
centius, who had taken refuge in the castle of St. An- 


gelo, was beheaded, in spite of the articles of capitula- 
tion, which guaranteed his life. Otho took his widow 
for a mistress. Robert, king of France, having mar- 
ried his cousin Bertha without dispensation, Gregory 
condemned him to do penance for seven years, deposed 
the archbishop who had officiated at the marriage, and 
demanded that Bertha should be discarded. Robert, 
refusing to comply, was excommunicated; and so great 
was at that time the fear inspired by this ecclesiastical 
punishment, that only two persons dared remain in the 
king’s service, and even they threw into the fire every- 
thing he had made use of, for fear of being contam- 
inated by contact with it (P. Damien, Opera , Paris, 
1GG3, fol., Epist. v). At the end of three years Robert 
gave up the contest, and discarded Bertha, to w hom he 
was much attached. Gregory died Feb. 11 (or 18), 
999, not without suspicion of poison. Several letters 
and patents of Gregory are contained in Baluze, Miscell . 
vol. vi ; five bulls in Ughelli, Italia sacra, ii, 352-354 ; 
iii, G18 ; iv, 98 ; two in D’Aeliery, Spicilegium , vol. vi ; 
one in De Marea, Marca hispanica, p. 952 ; and four 
letters in Labbe, ConciL ix, 752. See Baronius, An- 
nales, xvi, 345 sq. ; F. Pagi, ii, 2G2; J. B. de Glen, p. 
143; A. Duchesne, i, 938; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene rale, 
xxi, 799 ; Hoefler, Die deutschen Piipste, i, 195. 

VI, Anti-pope, was elevated, in June, 1012, to the 
papal see by a party of the Roman nobility in oppo- 
sition to Benedict VIII. As he w r as not recognised 
by the emperor, Henry IV, he seems to have resigned, 
and to have ended his life in retirement. 

VI, Pope, a Roman, w hose original name was Jo- 
hannes Gratiaxus, and ivho had had great repute for 
sanctity as a priest, obtained (A.D. 1044) the papal 
chair by purchase from Benedict IX, w ho abdicated to 
marry a girl of noble family. Failing in this, he 
claimed the seat again, and there were three claimants 
at onee — Benedict IX, Gregory VI, and Sylvester III. 
Rome was filled with brawls and murders, and Greg- 
ory himself wielded the sw'ord w ith eficct ! In 1046 
Henry III came to Rome, deposed all three of the rival 
popes, and seated Clement II in the apostolic chair. 
Gregory died in Cologne A.D. 1048. See Baronins, 
Annales , t. xvii ; Hoefler, Die deutschen Piipste , i, 224. 

VII. (Hildebrand), the greatest man that ever 
occupied the papal throne. The exact place and year 
of his birth are not known, yet he is generally sup- 
posed to have been horn between 1010 and 1020 at 
Siena in Tuscany, where, it is said, his father was a 
carpenter. He spent part of his youth at Rome in the 
service of pope Gregory VI, whom he accompanied 
in exile after lie left Rome by order of the emper- 
or. They went together to the convent of Cluny 
(France), where Hildebrand’s austerity and asceticism 
soon gave him such ascendency that he w r as made pri- 
or of the convent, though still quite young. He w r as 
not destined to remain long in seclusion. Henry III, 
after having regained the exclusive right of appointing 
popes, had made three in rapid succession, the latter 
of whom, Leo IX (Bruno, bishop of Toul), stopped at 
Cluny on his way to Italy. Hildebrand’s influence 
over him became so great that, laying aside the insignia 
of his office, lie w r cnt to Rome in the garb of a pilgrim, 
and declared that his appointment could only be consid- 
ered as valid if confirmed by the clergy and the people 
of Rome. His election being confirmed (in 1049), he 
called Hildebrand to Rome, and created him cardinal. 
Guided by Hildebrand’s advice, Leo IX attempted 
many reforms in the Church. Councils w'ere assem- 
bled at Rome, Rheims, and Mavenee, at wdiieli the pope 
himself presided, and in which, all important questions 
arising from the state of the Church were discussed. 
The encroachments of lay authority, the laxity of the 
convents, the immorality of priests, the practice of sell- 
ing ecclesiastical charges, and their consequent en- 
grossment by the civil authorities, which resulted in 
filling the Church with persons devoted to the tempo* 


GREGORY 


1002 


GREGORY 


ml powers — such were a few of the evils the Church was 1 
suffering under. Hildebrand directed all the measures 
of reform, under the authority of the pope. Leo IX 
died April It), 1054. Hildebrand was then sent to the 
emperor by the clergy and the people of Rome to ob- 
tain bis assent to the appointment of a new pope. Hil- 
debrand proposed bishop Gebhard ; the emperor pro- 
posed other candidates ; but Hildebrand finally prevail- 
ed, and the new pope was elected in 1055, under the 
name of Victor II, in the old Roman way, thus render- 
ing the consent of the emperor a mere matter of form. 
Victor II, urged by Hildebrand, continued the reforms 
commenced by Leo IX. lie assembled councils, and 
sent Hildebrand to France, where the Church was in 
great disorder, and still disturbed by the doctrines of 
Berengar (q. v.). Both the pope and the emperor dy- 
ing soon after, Stephen IX, an enemy of the new em- 
peror Henry IV, was made pope. Hildebrand was not 
consulted about the election. This appointment, which 
resembled a challenge to the emperor, threatened to 
cause serious difficulties, and to overthrow the plans 
of Hildebrand, who wished to withdraw from the em- 
peror the power of appointing popes in a more slow 
but surer manner. Stephen, however, died soon after 
his election in 105*, recommending, it is said, the cler- 
gy and the people to await Hildebrand’s return before 
proceeding to another election. This advice was dis- 
regarded, and the powerful counts of Tusculum ap- 
pointed a bishop of Vellctri entirely devoted to their 
interests as successor of Stephen IX, under the name 
of Benedict X. This election caused great trouble in 
Rome, and Hildebrand returned in haste from Germa- 
ny. Backed by the power of Germany, he caused the 
bishop of Florence to be elected pope, under the name 
of Nicholas 11, by an assembly held in Tuscany, and 
submitted the appointment to the approbation of the 
emperor in order to secure his protection. At the 
same time, to avoid the recurrence of irregular elec- 
tions by means of bribery, as had been the case in that 
of Benedict, he contrived a new method of election, ac- 
cording to which the choice should first be made by 
the cardinal bishops, and afterwards submitted succes- 
sively to the other cardinals, the clergy, and the peo- 
ple, all “saving the respect which is due to our be- 
loved son Henry, at present king ” Nicholas , 

11 dying in 1061, after a reign of tsvo years, new troub- 
les arose concerning the new mode of election. The 
cardinals chose Anselm, bishop of Lucca, under the 
name of Alexander 1 1, but the Roman nobility and 
part of the population refused to recognise him, and 
appealed to the emperor, who assembled at Basle a 
synod of bishops devoted to bis cause, which elected 
Cadalous, bishop of Parma, for pope, under the name 
of Ilonorius IT. Cadalous, like the other bishops of 
Lombardy, had been at open war with the see of Rome. 
Had Rome yielded to his election, all the ground gain- 
ed bv Hildebrand would have been lost. Without any 
hesitancy, Hildebrand recognised the validity of Alex- 
ander IFs election, and the latter wisely ehosc the pow- 
erful monk for bis chancellor. Cadalous, at the same 
time, advanced against Rome at the head of a German 
army, and the two popes, after duly excommunicating 
each other, fought at the doors of Rome. The Ger- 
mans were defeated, and Cadalous fled. The young 
emperor was taken away from his mother’s influence 
and put under the care of the archbishop of Cologne 
(Anno or Han no), who caused Alexander’s election to 
be confirmed by the Synod of (ioslar. Hildebrand, 
more powerful now than ever, continued to work with 
all his might for the reformation of the Church and the 
suppression of simony. About that time an occurrence 
took place which throws some light upon Hildebrand’s 
character, viz. bis quarrel with one of the most virtu- 
ous and most austere men of that period, Peter’Damien 
(q. v.). After being long united by similarity of views 
and unity of aim, they disagreed on some point not 
known, and after that time the writings of the eloquent 


bishop arc full of proofs of his resentment. At the 
death of Alexander II, Hildebrand himself was chosen 
pope in 1073. lie accepted the nomination with re- 
luctance ; contemporary writers say that the day of 
his election was one of great trial to him. This can 
readily be believed, for none knew better than be the 
dangers and difficulties of bis new position, where he 
would be obliged to act openly and to meet at once all 
emergencies. The history of his reign is the political 
and religious history of Europe in those times. 

Hildebrand did not assume bis title until lie had re- 
ceived the approbation of the emperor Henry TV, to 
whom he dispatched messengers for the purpose. The 
emperor, pleased with this act of deference, readily 
I confirmed his election, and Hildebrand assumed the 
name of Gregory VII. The great object of Gregory's 
ambition was, as he expressed himself in a letter to 
Hugo, abbot of Cluny, to effect a total reform of the 
| Church in the points already named, as having em- 
ployed his energies under the preceding popes. Greg- 
ory determined to remove the root of many of the ex- 
isting evils by taking away from the secular princes 
the right which they assumed of disposing of the sees 
within their dominions. He aimed at nothing less 
than a concentration of all the ecclesiastical power of 
the world in the hands of the pope ; and his whole 
reign was a struggle to secure this supreme dominion, 
which included, in his ideas, the absolute subordina- 
tion of the temporal powers of the world to the spiritual 
power — that is, to the pope. The emperor Henry IV, 
licentious, ambitious, and at war with his revolted vas- 
sals, and therefore continually in want of money, was 
one of the most culpable in respect of simony. He 
disposed of sees and benefices in favor of vicious or in- 
capable men, and the bishops of Germany readily en- 
tered into his views of making the Church a sort of 
feudal dependant on the imperial will. Gregory be- 
gan by admonishing Henry; he sent legates to Ger- 
many, but to little purpose. His next step was to as- 
semble a council at Rome in 1074, which anathema- 
tized persons guilty of simony, and ordered the depo- 
sition of those priests who lived in concubinage, under 
which name, however, were also included those who 
lived in a state of matrimony, and it was decreed also 
that no one should he admitted to holy orders unless 
be made a vow of celibacy. This last regulation cre- 
ated great excitement, especially at Milan, where the 
custom of priests being married v r as still prevalent, as 
in the Eastern Church. “ Gregory summoned another 
council at Rome in 1075, in which, for the first time, 
kings and other lay princes were forbidden, under pain 
of excommunication, from giving the investiture of 
sees and abbeys by conferring the ring and the cro- 
sier. This was the beginning of the quarrel about the 
investiture which distracted Europe for many years 
after, and which may here require some explanation. 
In the early ages of the Christian Church, it would ap- 
pear that the body of the clergy, or presbyters of a 
town or district, together with the municipal council 
or notables, elected their bishop or chief pastor, and 
the Christian emperors did not interfere with the choice 
except in t lie case of the great patriarchal sees, such 
as Rome and Constantinople, the candidate to which, 
after being elected l>v the elerg}' and people, was re- 
quired to wait for the imperial confirmation. The 
Gothic kings of Italy followed the same system, as 
well as the exarchs of Ravenna after them, in the 
name of the Byzantine emperors. At Rome, and 
probably in the rest of Italy also, the laity paiticipated 
| in the election of their bishops till the 10th century; 
in the East they appear to have been excluded from it 
sooner. Charlemagne is said by some to have intro- 
duced the custom of putting the ring and crosier into 
the bauds of new-elected bishops, while he required 
from them the oath of fealty to himself. There seems 
no doubt at least that the custom was prevalent under 
, his successors of the Carloviugian dynasty. The rea- 


GREGORY 


1003 


GREGORY 


*on of this was, that the churches having been richly 
endowed by various sovereigns with lands and other 
temporalities, the incumbents were considered in the 
light of feudal tenants. Cv thus keeping at their own 
disposal the temporalities of the sees, the sovereigns 
came gradually to appoint the bishops, either by di- 
rect nomination, or by recommending a candidate to 
the electors. Gregory, making no distinction between 
spiritualities and temporalities, considered the investi- 
ture as a spiritual act, insisting that the crosier was 
emblematic of the spiritual authority ol bishops over 
their flocks, and the ring was the symbol of their mys- 
tical marriage with the Church ; although Sarpi ob- 
serves, in his Treatise upon Benejices , there was another 
ceremony, namely, the consecration of the bishop elect 
by imposition of hands by the metropolitan, which was 
the real spiritual investiture. But Gregory’s object 
was to take away from laymen all ecclesiastical patron- 
age, and to make the Church, with all its temporalities, 
independent of the state. He would not admit of any 
symbols of allegiance to the state; and he contended 
that the estates of sees had become inseparably con- 
nected with the spiritual office, and could no longer be 
distinguished ; and yet be himself had waited for the 
confirmation of the emperor before he was consecrated. 
See Investiture. The emperor Henry IV paid no 
regard to Gregory’s councils and their decrees, and he 
continued to nominate not only to German, but also 
Italian bishoprics. Among others, he appointed a cer- 
tain Tedaldo archbishop of Milan, in opposition to Azzo, 
a mere youth, who had been consecrated by Gregory’s 
legate. But the quarrel of the investiture, which had 
opened the breach between the pope and the emperor, 
was lost sight of in the more extraordinary discussions 
which followed between them. Gregory had been for 
some time tampering with Henry’s disaffected vassals 
of Saxony, Thuringia, and other countries, and he now 
publicly summoned the emperor to Home to vindicate 
himself from the charges preferred by his subjects 
against him. This was a further and most unwar- 
rantable stretch of that temporal supremacy over kings 
and principalities which the see of Home had already 
begun to assume. Henry, indignant at this assump- 
tion of power, assembled a diet of the empire at Worms, 
at which many bishops and abbots were present, and 
which, upon various charges preferred against Grego- 
ry, deposed him, and dispatched a messenger to Itome 
to signify this decision to the Roman clergy, request- 
ing them to send a mission to the emperor for a new 
pope. Upon this, Gregory, in a council assembled at 
the Lateran Palace in 1076, solemnly excommunicated 
Henry, and in the name of St. Peter, prince of the 
apostles, declared him ipso facto deposed from the 
thrones of Germany and Italy, and liis subjects re- 
leased from their oath of allegiance. Gregory, ob- 
serves Platina, in his Lives of the Popes, was the first 
who assumed the right of deposing the emperors, whose 
vassals lie and his predecessors had been considered 
till then, and who had even exercised the power of de- 
posing several popes for illegal election or abuse of 
their authority. This bold act of Gregory produced 
for a time the effect which he had calculated upon. 
Most of Henry’s subjects, already ripe for rebellion, 
readily availed themselves of the papal sanction, and 
a diet was assembled to elect a new emperor. Henry, 
however, obtained a delay, and, the matter being re- 
ferred to the pope, he set off for Italy in the winter of 
1077, and, passing the Alps of Susa, met Gregory at 
the castle of Canossa, near Reggio, in Lombardy, which 
belonged to the countess Mathilda, a great friend and 
supporter of the pope. Gregory would not see Henry 
at first, but insisted upon his laying aside all the insig- 
nia of royalty, and appearing in the garb of a penitent 
in a coarse woollen garment and barefooted. In this 
plight Henry remained for three days, from morning 
till sunset, in an outer court of the castle, in very severe 
weather. On the fourth day he was admitted into 


Gregory’s presence, and, on confessing his errors, re- 
ceived absolution, but was not restored to his king- 
dom, the pope referring him to the general diet. Hen- 
ry soon after resumed the insignia of royalty, and, be- 
ing supported by his Lombard vassals, and indignant 
at the humiliating scene of Canossa, recrossed the Alps, 
fought several battles in Germany, and at last defeat- 
ed and mortally wounded Rudolf of Suabia, who had 
been elected emperor in his stead, and was supported 
by Gregory. Having now r retrieved his affairs in Ger^ 
many, he marched w'ith an army into Italy in 1081 to 
avenge himself on the pope, whom he again deposed in 
another diet, having appointed Guibert, archbishop of 
Ravenna, as his successor, under the name of Clement 
III. Gregory had meantime drawn to his party by 
timely concessions Robert Guiscard, the Norman con- 
queror of Apulia and Sicily, who, how’ever, could not 
prevent Henry from advancing to the w r alls of Rome ; 
but the city was w r ell defended, and the summer heats 
obliged Ilenrv to retrace his steps towards North Italy, 
where his soldiers ravaged the territories of the count- 
ess Mathilda. He repeated the attempt against Rome 
in 1083, but without success. It was finally agreed 
that a general council should decide the questions be- 
tween the emperor and the pope. The council as- 
sembled at Rome in 1083, and Gregory did not again 
excommunicate the emperor, blit negotiated with him 
without coming to any definitive result. In fact, Greg- 
ory’s personal successes were at an end, though the 
principles of papal supremacy for which he contended 
took root and grew' up in after times. In 1084 Henry 
was invited by some ambassadors from the Roman 
people, w'lio w’ere dissatisfied with the pope, to enter 
the city, which he did on the 21st of March, and imme- 
diately took possession of the Lateran, the bridges, 
and other important positions. Gregory escaped into 
the castle of St. Angelo, and the anti-pope Guibert was 
publicly consecrated on Palm Sunday hv several bish- 
ops. On the follow ing Easter Sunday Henry IV was 
crowned by him as emperor in St. Peter’s church. 
After the ceremony Henry ascended the eapitol and 
was publicly proclaimed, and acknowledged by the Ro- 
mans with acclamations. Hearing, however, that Rob- 
ert Guiscard was approaching Rome with troops, he 
left the city and withdrew towards Tuscany. Robert 
came soon after with his Norman and Saracen soldiers, 
who, under the pretence of delivering Gregory, who 
w-as still shut up in the castle of St. Angelo, plundered 
Rome, and committed all kinds of atrocities. Gregory, 
having come out of his stronghold, assembled another 
council, in which, for the fourth time, lie excommuni- 
cated Henry and the anti-pope Guibert. When Rob- 
ert left the city to return to his ow’n dominions, the 
pope, not thinking himself safe in Rome, withdrew 
with him to Salerno, w here, after consecrating a mag- 
nificent church built by Robert, lie died, May 25, 1085. 
His last w'ords w’ere, ‘ 1 have loved justice and hated 
iniquity, and therefore I die in exile.’ He probably 
believed what he said. Gregory’s character w'as in 
many respects a grand and noble one. But impartial 
history decides that the good he accomplished was far 
more than counterbalanced by his fanatical enforce- 
ment of celibacy (q. v.), which has continued to this 
day to demoralize the Romanist clergy, and by his 
semi-blasphemous assertions of almost divine power 
for the papacy. His earlier efforts for ecclesiastical 
reform were, no doubt, sincere and earnest ; but at a 
later period lie was led astray by the ambition of ex- 
alting his see over all the dignities and pow ers of the 
earth, spiritual as w'ell as temporal. Not content with 
making, as far as in him lay, the Church independent 
of the empire, and at the same time establishing the 
control of the papal authority over the princes of the 
earth, objects which he left to he completed by his suc- 
cessor [see Innocent III], Gregory determined to de- 
stroy the independence of the various national church- 
es. Ilis object w r as to raise the pope to supreme pow« 


GREGORY 


1004 


GREGORY 


er over Churcli and State throughout Christendom. 
By a constitution of his predecessor Alexander II, 
which he dictated, and which he afterwards continued, 
it was enacted for the first time that no bishop elect 
should exercise his functions until he had received his 
confirmation from the pope. The Roman see had al- 
ready, in the 9th century, subverted the authority of 
the metropolitans, under pretence of affording protec- 
tion to the bishops ; but now it assu'med the right of 
citing the bishops, without distinction, before its tri- 
bunal at Rome to receive its dictates, and Gregory 
obliged the metropolitan to attend in person to receive 
the pallium. The quarrel of Anselm, archbishop of 
Canterbury, with William Rufus, was owing to that 
monarch not choosing to let him go to Rome, whither 
he had been summoned. The practice of sending apos- 
tolic legates to different kingdoms as special commis- 
sioners of the pope, with discretionary power over the 
national hierarchy, originated also with Gregory, and 
completed the establishment of absolute monarchy in 
the Churcli in lien of its original popular or represent- 
ative form. This doctrine of papal absolutism in mat- 
ters of discipline was by prescription and usage so in- 
termixed with the more essential doctrines of faith, 
that it came to be considered as a dogma itself, and 
has defied all the skill of subsequent theologians and 
statesmen to disentangle it from the rest, while at the 
same time it has probably been, though at a fearful 
cost, the means of preserving the unity of the Western 
or Roman Church” (English Cyclopeedui). The meas- 
ures accomplished and attempted by Gregory were (1) 
the abolition of the influence of the Roman nobility in 
the election of the pope ; (2) the removal of all author- 
ity in the election of the popes from the emperors of 
Germany; (3) the establishment of the celibacy of the 
clergy ; (4) the freedom of the Church in the matter 
of investitures. Great attention has been given to the 
history of Gregory VII, both by ecclesiastical and po- 
litical writers, especially within the present century. 
See Dupin, Eccles. 1 Vriters (11th century); Mosheim, 
Ch. History , ch. xi, pt. ii, ch. ii ; Neander, Ch. History, 
vol. iv ; Ranke, History of the Papacy , i, 29 sq. ; Hase, 
Ch. JJistoi'y , § 181; Sir James Stephen, Essays in Ec- 
clesiastical Biography, i, 1 ; also in Edinburgh Review, 
Ixsxi, 143 ; Guizot, Hist, of Modern Civilization ; Bow- 
den, Life and Pontificate of Gregory VII (Lond. 1840, 
2 vols. 8vo) ; Voigt, Hildebrand als Pabst Gregor VII 
(Weimar, 1813, 8vo ; 2d cd. 184G, 8vo) ; Spittler, Gregor 
VII (Hanib. 1827, 4to) ; Grcsley, Life and Pontificate 
of Gregory VII (Lond. 1829, 12mo); Mailelaine, Pontifi- 
cal de Grlyolre 17/ (Paris, 1837, 2 vols. 8vo); Cassan- 
der, Zeitaltcr Hildebrand's (Darmstadt, 1842, 8vo) ; 
Soeltl, Gregor VII (Leipsig, 1847, Svo) ; Milman,Za£m 
Christianity, iii, 140 sq. ; Ilelfenstcin, Gregor's VII Be- 
strehungen (Frankf., 1856, Svo); Gfrorer, Papst Gregor 
VII u.sein Zeitaller (ultramontane view; Schalfhausen, 
1859-1861,7 vols. 8vo); English Cyclopaedia; Herzog, 
ReaLEncyklop. v, 334 sq. ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gener. 
xx i, 801. 

VIII (Albeko de Mora), Pope, was a native of 
Bcnevento. lie succeeded Urban 111, Oct. 21, 1187, 
and died at Pisa Dec. 26, 1187. llis short reign was 
unimportant. He has generally been considered as a 
learned, eloquent, and virtuous man. lie attempted a 
crusade to the IIol^^ Land, and the cardinals them- 
selves promised to join him, and to contribute their 
riches towards the undertaking, but these promises 
were only given to he evaded. Gregory’s last act was 
to attempt a reconciliation between the inhabitants of 
Pisa and those of Genoa. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rate, xxi, 814. 

IX (Ugolino, coun’t of Segni), Pope, was a native 
of Anagni, and a relative of Innocent 1 1 1. He succeed- 
ed llonoriiis 1 II, March 19, 1227. lie followed careful- 
ly in the footsteps of Gregory WI 1 and of Innocent III, 
upholding the see of Rome as the master of all empires 
and superior to all kings. Ilis consecration took place 


1 with unusual magnificence : he celebrated mass at 
St.John Lateran in vestments covered with gold and 
precious stones ; then, mounting a richly-harncsscd 
horse, and surrounded by cardinals clothed in purple 
and gold, he made a triumphant procession through 
the streets of Rome, which were decked with carpets 
and flowers for the occasion. The emperor Frederick 
II had a powerful party devoted to him in Rome; it 
became desirable to remove him from too close proxim- 
ity with that city, and in order to achieve this, Greg- 
ory reminded him of his vow of visiting the Holy 
Land, and commanded him to go at once. At the mo- 
ment of embarking Frederick fell sick at Otranto, but 
Gregor}', who believed his illness to he feigned, excom- 
municated him, and notified all the churches of it. 
Frederick, on the other hand, wrote to ail the princes 
complaining of the pope’s proceedings. Gregory, in 
return, excommunicated him again, and threatened to 
take the empire from him. Frederick, disregarding 
this absurd threat, excited the Romans to revolt 
against Gregory, who, insulted cv'en when saying 
mass, was obliged to retire first to Rieto, then to Spole- 
to, and finally to Perugia. Frederick, leaving Raynald 
at Rome to treat with the pope, embarked now for Pal- 
estine against the orders of Gregory. Raynald, in the 
mean time, having organized an army, invaded the pa- 
pal states. Gregory put his forces under the orders 
of Roger of Aquila, and war began in earnest in 1228. 
Such, it is said, is the origin of the two factions, after- 
wards so celebrated, of the Guelph s and Ghibellines , the 
former acting for the pope, the hitter for the emperor. 
Frederick, forestalled in Palestine by the emissaries of 
Gregory, badly seconded by the Christians of Syria, 
and, besides, being desirous of returning to Italy, 
where Raynald had been defeated by the papal troops, 
concluded a ten years’ truce with the sultan of Egypt, 
and, though excommunicated, caused himself to be 
crowned king of Jerusalem, after which he returned to 
Europe. The pope, on hearing of his arrival, excom- 
municated him anew, and released his subjects from 
their allegiance. Frederick offered to submit, and ask- 
ed for absolution ; peace was in consequence concluded 
Aug. 28, 1230. The Romans again drove away the 
pope (July 20, 1232). He succeeded in going back to 
Rome in 1235. War soon broke out again. Frederick, 
having taken Sardinia, gave it to his natural son, 
Ilenrv ; the pope claimed it for himself. Neither had 
any right to it, and neither would give it up to the 
other. Frederick was excommunicated a fourth time 
in 1239. Frederick marched against Rome, but Greg- 
ory died before he reached it, Aug. 20, 1241. The 
principal traits of Gregory’s character were pride and 
haughtiness ; he aimed at extending the privileges of 
the Church at any cost. In this he received no help 
except from the king of England, who gave tithes to 
the see of Rome in exchange for the deposition of a 
bishop. St. Louis, even when threatened with excom- 
munication, refused to free the clergy from their re- 
sponsibility to civil jurisdiction. Gregory was well 
acquainted with civil and canon law, and in 1234 pub- 
lished a collection of decretals which were often re- 
printed : Nova Compilatio Decretalium , cum glossa (1st 
cd. Mentz, 1473, fuL). There are also 31 letters and 
191 fragments of his writings in Labbe, Condi, xi. 310; 
56 letters in Ughelli, Italia Sacra ; 9 in Vossius ; 1 bull 
in Duchesne, Histories , v, 861 ; and 1 in Mabillon, p. 
421, No. 106.— Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxi, 814 sq. 

X, Rope, previously known as Tebabdo i>e’ Vis- 
conti, was born at Piacenza, of the illustrious family 
of Visconti. He was chosen pope while absent with the 
prince of Wales in the Holy Land. The see had been 
vacant nearly three years after the death of Clement 
IV. Gregory greatly encouraged the Crusades. In 
1271 he summoned the Council of Lyons, which con- 
vened in 1274. See Lyons. lie died at Arezzo, Jan. 
39, 1276. This pope instituted the regulations of the 
conclave nearly as they exist at the present time* 


GREGORY 


1005 


GREGORY 


There are twenty-five epistles of Gregory in Labbe, 
Condi. vol. xi. Gerard Vossius published his Vita et 
Epistolre (Grk. and Lat. Rome, 1587). See Bovver, Hist, 
of Popes, vol. viii ; Bonacci, Pontf. Gregorio X (Rome, 
1711, 4 to). 

XI (Pierre Roger), Tope, born in 1329 at Mau- 
mont, in France, was nephew to Clement VI, who 
made him cardinal at eighteen years of age, and gave 
him many rich benefices. He was elected pope De- 
cember 30, 1370, and removed the papal court from 
Avignon to Rome in 1377. Wicliffe visited this pope 
at Avignon, and went back to England disgusted with 
the vices of the priesthood. Gregory opposed all 
“heresies” violently; he condemned Raymond Lull 
(q. v.) and his doctrines by a bull dated January 25, 
1370, caused the burning of Jeanne Daubenton, and 
'condemned the writings of Wicliffe. His pontificate 
was marked by gross nepotism. He died suddenly, 
March 28, 1378. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxi, 817. 

XII (Angelo Corraro), Pope, a Venetian, was 
elected pope Nov. 30, 1406, by the Roman cardinals, 
during the Western strife, while his rival Benedict XI T I 
occupied the chair at Avignon. After long quarrels, 
both popes were deposed by the Council of Pisa, 1409, 
but Gregory did not yield until the assembling of the 
Council of Constance, when he formally resigned 
(1415). He was made dean of the cardinals, and died 
Oct. 18, 1417, aged 92. — lloefer, Nouv . Biog. Generate , 
xxi, 821. 

XIII (Ugo Buoncompagno), Pope, born in 1502 
at Bologna, succeeded Pius V May 13, 1572. He was 
one of the most learned priests of his time, especially 
in civil and canonical law. He was a man of. mild 
temper and jovial habits, yet his pontificate is stained 
by his relations to the bloody massacre of St. Bar- 
tholomew (which he openly approved by a solemn 
Te Benin, and by striking medals in honor of it), 
and by his participation in a treasonable plot against 
queen Elizabeth. Ilis reign was agitated and un- 
quiet throughout, and, amid the confusions caused by 
his attempts to confiscate many of the estates of the 
Italian nobles, he died, April 10, 1585. His reform of 
the calendar, however, will carry his name down to 
the latest posterity. — Mosheim, Church Hist. cent, xvi, 
sec. iii, pt. i, ch. i, n. 28 ; Ranke, History of Papacy, i, 
307 sq. See Calendar. 

XIV (Nicolo Sfondrati), Pope, was elected by 
the influence of the Jesuit party, Dec. 5, 1590. His 
short reign was taken up chiefly in efforts to sustain 
the league in France against Henry IV. He died Oct. 
15, 1591. — Ranke, Hist, of Papacy, i, 536. 

XV (Alessandro Ludovisi), Pope, was born at 
Bologna, 1553, made pope Feb. 9,1621, and died July 
18, 1623. With the aid of his nephew, cardinal Ludo- 
vico, he signalized his brief reign by several measures 
of great importance to the Roman Church. He urged 
on emperor Ferdinand to exterminate Protestantism 
from the empire ; he established the College of the 
Propaganda [see Propaganda] ; and he greatly in- 
creased the missionary enterprises of Rome in South 
America, Abyssinia, China, and India. The dominion 
of the Church was more widely extended in his reign 
than at any former period of her history. — Ranke, 
Hist, of Papacy, ii, 64 sq. 

XVI(Bartolojimeo Alberto Capellari), Pope, 
was born at Belluno, Sept. 18, 1765. He became a Ca- 
maldolite Benedictine under the name of J fauro, and at 
twenty-five years was made professor of theology. In 
1799 he published the Triumph of the Holy See and of 
the Church (Rome, 4to), a treatise vindicating the abso- 
lute power of the popes. In 1801 he became abbot of 
his monastery, and in 1803 general of his order, lie 
was made cardinal and prefect of the propaganda in 
1826. On the death of Leo XII he was elected pope, 
Feb. 2, 1831. His reign fell in a stormy time. Imme- 
diately after his accession revolts occurred in several 


of the papal provinces. Bologna took the lead ; the 
commotion spread swiftly from Bologna throughout 
Romagna, and soon reached all parts of the pope’s do- 
minions except the metropolitan city. The intention 
of the insurgents was to put an end forever to the tem- 
poral sovereignty of the pope, and to unite the states 
of Italy. But the movement was not well contrived ; 
it was simply a spontaneous burst of enthusiasm, ex- 
cited by the French Revolution of 1830. Yet so utterly 
powerless and detested was the pontifical government, 
that, left to itself, it could not have survived the shock 
of even this unorganized insurrection. Austria poured 
troops into the disaffected provinces, and quickly si- 
lenced the tumult. It was evident, however, that agi- 
tations like these could only be prevented by timely 
concessions, and the powers of Europe united to recom- 
mend this course to the pope, in order that a “ new 
sera” (as cardinal Bernctti, the papal secretary, said) 
might commence with the popedom of Gregory XVI. 
The new cera was slow in arriving. The papal govern- 
ment, as usual, forgot its promises as soon as the dan- 
ger was past. Indignant remonstrances, and partial 
attempts at revolt, rapidly followed by confiscations, 
imprisonments, and exiles, rapidly led the way to a 
complete relapse into the old system of misgovermnent 
and steady suppression of free thought. The Papal 
States were now the only part of civilized Europe in 
which municipal institutions were unknown, and where 
the laity were wholly excluded from the conduct of 
public affairs. For many years the people were bnsy 
in plotting revolutions, and the government in practi- 
cing esjnonage on the largest scale, suddenly searching 
suspected houses, punishing the suspected without 
trial, and every way embittering the spirit of hostility. 
Plans were formed by the exiled patriots to unite all 
Italy in a confederation for freedom, but these plans 
were discovered and destroyed by the Austrian police 
before they were ripe for execution. All Europe look- 
ed on with pitv, but no state offered to interfere, lest 
commotions in Italy should lead to disturbances else- 
where. The banished Italians themselves, in a mani- 
festo which they published in 1845, declared that the 
enormities of Gregory’s government had risen to such 
a height “ that each one of them more than sufficed to 
give the right of loudly protesting against his breach 
of faith, his trampling upon justice, his torturing hu- 
man nature, and all the excesses of his tyranny.” In 
fact, the whole pontificate of Gregory was one long 
oppression of his subjects. At its termination there 
were between two and three thousand political prison- 
ers in the papal dungeons ! 

Gregory was not less active in strengthening the 
power of Rome abroad than in crushing out liberty and 
happiness at home. He erected, in various countries, 
twenty-seven new bishoprics and thirty-two apostolic 
vicariates. In 1836 he gave the College Be Propagaiu 
da into the care of the Jesuits, and he trusted and fa- 
vored that order in every way. He opposed the Bible 
Societies and the general diffusion of the Bible, utter- 
ing violent encyclicals on these points. A better feat- 
ure was his opposition to the slave-trade and to slav- 
ery. He put down the Hermesians (q. v.) in Ger- 
many with the strong hand, and greatly enlarged the 
bulk of the Index Expurgatorius. The Jesuit mis- 
] sions were greatly fostered by Gregory, and societies 
| to raise funds, such as the CEuvre de la Foi (Soci- 
ety for the Propagation of Faith) in France, grew 
rapidly in extent and productiveness. Romanism 
increased under his pontificate in even’ 1 country in 
I Europe, partly in consequence of a natural reaction 
against previous depression, hut largely, also, through 
the energetic activity of the pope. He died of cancer, 
June 1, 1846. Gregory wrote several Encyclical Epis- 
tles, which are of value as showing the unchanged 
character of the papacy ; among them are translated 
A Letter to the .4 rchbishops and Bishops of Ireland (Lond. 
1886, p. 71, 8vo) : — Encyclical to all Patriarchs , rri- 


GREGORY 


1006 


GRESLON 


mates , etc. (London, 1845, p. 40, 8vo). See Farini, Lo 
Stale Romano delV anno 1815 (Turin, 1841, 3 vols.) ; La 
Farina, Sloria d' Italia; Heme des deux Mondes, June, 
1847; Moroni, Dizion.di erudizione ecclesiast. vel. xxxii. 

Gregory, George, D.D., an English divine, son of 
the prebendary of Ferns, in Ireland, was born in 1754, 
and was educated at the University of Edinburgh. In 
1778 he took orders, and became a curate at Liverpool ; 
in 1782 he removed to London, where he obtained the 
curacy of St. Giles, Crip plegate , a nd was chosen evening 
preacher of the Foundling Hospital. Lord Sidrnouth 
in 1804 procured for him the living of Westham, in Es- 
sex, which Dr. Gregory held till his death in 1808. 
Among his works are Essays, historical and moral : — 
History of the Christian Church (Loinl. 1790, 2 vols. 
12 mo) : — Sermons, with a Treatise on the Composition of 
a Sermon (Lond. 1787, 8vo): — a translation of Lowth's 
Lectures on Hebrew Poetry (Lond. 1787, 2 vols.Svo). — 
Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog . i, 1323. 

Gregory, John, a learned English divine, was 
horn at Amersham, in Buckinghamshire, in 1G07. In 
1624 he was sent in. the capacity of servitor to Christ 
Church, Oxford, where he was placed under the tuition 
of Dr. George M or ley, afterwards bishop of Winches- 
ter. Having been admitted into orders, he was ap- 
pointed one of the chaplains of his college by the dean, 
Dr. Brian Duppa. In 1G34 he published a second edi- 
tion of Sir Thomas Ridley’s View of the Civil and Eccle- 
siastical Law, tiith Notes (4to), bv which he acquired 
much reputation on account of the civil, historical, ec- 
clesiastical, and ritual learning, and the skill in ancient 
and modern languages, Oriental as well as European, 
displayed in it. In 1641 he obtained the prebend of 
Salisbury, but was deprived of it at the Rebellion. In 
164C he published Notes and Observations on some Pas- 
sages of Scripture (4to), which were reprinted at differ- 
ent periods, and afterwards translated into Latin and 
inserted in the Critici Saeri. He died in 1646. An ac- 
count of his life will be found in his Boris (4th edit. 
Lond. 1684, 4to). Anthony Wood calls him the miracle 
of his age for critical and curious learning. — Fuller, 
Worth! s of England; Hook, Eccl. Biog. vol. v; Dar- 
ling, Cyclop. Bibliog. i, 1322. 

Gregory, Olinthus Gilbert, LL.D., was born 
at Yaxley, in Huntingdonshire, Jan. 29, 1774. He was 
educated under Mr. Weston, a celebrated mathemati- 
cian, and published, at 19, a text-book called Lessons 
Astronomical and Philosophical. Through the interest 
of Dr. Hutton, he was appointed in 1802 mathemati- 
cal master at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, 
where he obtained the professor’s chair. He published 
a large number of mathematical treatises, of which it 
is not our place to give an account. But Dr. Gregory 
possessed qualities of a still nobler and better kind 
than those of a scientific philosopher. He was a de- 
cided Christian — a man who had not only studied the 
literature of the sacred volume, but made it the rule 
of his life, as well as the source of his inward peace 
and hope. On what firm and enlightened grounds his 
own faith was established in the truth and fundamental 
principles of the Gospel, appears from his Letters to a 
Friend on the Evidences, Doctrines, and Duties of the 
Christian Religion (Lond. 1812, 2 vols.Svo); a treatise 
which has long maintained a high reputation. He 
also wrote Memoirs of John Mason ( Hood , M.D. (Lond. 
1828, 8vo) : — Memoirs of the Rev. Robert Hall (prefixed 
to the editions of Hall’s collected Works) ; and a num- 
ber of articles in the Eclectic Review and other jour- 
nals. lie died Feb. 2, 1841. — Jamieson, Relig. Biog. 
233; English Cyclopaedia. 

Grellet, Stephen (. Etienne de Grelkt dn Mabil- 
her), the fifth child of Gabriel Marc Antoine de Grel- 
let, was born at Limoges, in France, Nov. 2, H73. His 
parents were wealthy, and ranked high among the no- 
bility. 1 1 is father was comptroller of the mint, the 
friend and counsellor of Louis XVI, and was proprie- 


tor of iron-works and of extensive porcelain manufac-* 
tories. Etienne was trained in the Roman Catholic 
faith, but at the early age of six years, by a remarka- 
ble visitation of the Holy Spirit, was brought to expe- 
rience the efficacy of private prayer. At the age of 
seventeen he was chosen one of the king’s body-guard. 
During the horrors of the Revolution the family estates 
were confiscated. Etienne and his brothers became 
prisoners of war, and were sentenced to be shot, but es- 
caped to America. In the }'ear 1795, at Newtown, L. I., 
whilst walking in the evening twilight, he heard a 
voice pronouncing thrice the word Eternity, and he 
was overwhelmed with powerful convictions of sin. 
He was not at that time a Christian believer, and had 
never seen a Bible. Waiting patiently upon the Lord, 
the divine Spirit opened to his mind the scheme of sal- 
vation by Christ, and the truth as it is in him, and, 
uniting himself to the religious Society of Friends, he 
became one of the most illustrious ministers and mis- 
sionaries of that Church. In 1798, during the preva- 
lence of yellow fever in Philadelphia, he devoted him- 
self to ministrations to the sick, the dying, and the af- 
flicted, and, taking the disease, his name was one day 
reported in the death -list. His wife was Rebecca, 
daughter of Isaac Collins, a lady of extraordinary love- 
liness and virtues. He engaged in mercantile busi- 
ness, in which he was remarkably blessed, always 
winding up his temporal concerns when required to go 
forth to proclaim the gospel of salvation, and carefully 
defraying his own expenses in his long and arduous 
journeys, being very jealous that the ministry should 
not be blamed, and feeling conscientiously bound to 
bestow without charge what he had freely received. 
He visited Europe four times. Alexander, the czar 
of Russia, received him to his friendship and to his 
warm embrace, and at bis suggestion adopted various 
governmental measures, and introduced into the schools 
of the empire comprehensive Biblical selections pre- 
pared by Grellet and his friend, W. Allen. He pene- 
trated the secret archives of the Inquisition at Rome, 
and in an audience granted him by the pope, he preach- 
ed boldly to him as a fellow-sinner, and exposed vari- 
ous outrages which he had witnessed. These the pope 
condemned, and at parting gave him his benediction. 
His missionary labors embraced also Great Britain, 
North America, Ilavti, etc., and were attended with 
memorable experiences and success. For a full ac- 
count thereof, see an interesting biography written by 
Benjamin Seebohm, one of his converts. See also the 
memorial issued by the Society of Friends, and The 
Fight, Faith , and Croivn, by Dr. Van Rensselaer, of the 
Presbyterian Church; also a memoir published in Lon- 
don, called Etienne de Grellet, the French Evangelist. 
During his last illness, which was one of great suffer- 
ing, he glorified God in a wonderful manner, and his 
seasons of excruciating agony only drew from him ex- 
pressions of thanksgiving and praise. He died at Bur- 
lington, N. J., Nov. 16, 1855. — See London Quarterly 
Review , April, 18G2, art. vi. (W. J. A.) 

Greslon, Adrian, a F reneh Jesuit missionary, was 
born at Perigueux in 1G18. He joined the Jesuits at 
Bordeaux in Nov. 1635, and w T as for a while professor 
of literature and theology in several schools of his or- 
der. In 1G55 he was sent as missionary to China, and 
landed at Hian in 1657. China being at that time in 
revolution, Greslon remained for a while at Ilian, 
learning Chinese in the mean time. After the revo- 
lution had ended in favor of Chun-Tclii, Greslon went 
to the province of Kian-si, near Pekin, of which lie 
has given a very flattering description. In 1670 he 
returned to France, w'here he resumed his former em- 
ployments, and died in 1697. He wrote Les Vies des 
saints Patriarches de I'Ancien Testament (with notes in 
Chinese): — Histaire de la Chine sous la domination des 
Tartares, etc. (Paris, 1GG1, 8vo). See Lettres edifi antes ; 
Moreri, Grand Diet. hist. ; lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate t 
xxi, 935. 


GRETSER 


1007 GRIEF 


Gretser, Jakob, a distinguished German Jesuit, 
theologian, and historian, was born at Markdorf (Sua- 
bia) in 1561. He joined the Jesuits at seventeen, and 
became successively professor of philosophy at Ingol- 
stadt in 1581), of moral theology in 1502, and of scho- 
lastic theology in 1599. He continued in this office un- 
til his death, Jan. 29, 1625. He was distinguished for 
literary activity, and wrote over one hundred and fifty 
works, mostly against the Protestants. He possessed 
much learning, yet was only an indifferent critic ; and 
his style, which is flowing, is bitter and full of invec- 
tives against his adversaries. His principal works 
arc, Disputatio philosophica de Topica et locis (Ingol- 
stadt, 1589, 4to): — Integra Refutatio Histories Ordinis 
Jesuitici ab Elia Hasenmillero conscriptce (Ingol. 1594,' 
4to) : — De Sancta Cruce (Ingol. 1598, 4to ; last ed. 1616, 
fob) : — Locorum quorumdam Tcrtiillianicorum a perver- 
sis Fr. Jitnii Calvinistce depra vationibus Yindicatio (In- 
gol. 1600, 4to) : — De Jure et More prohibendi , expur- 
gandi el abolendi libros hcercticos et noiios (Ingol. 1603, 
4to) : — Exercitationum theologicarum Libri sex (1604, 
4 to) : — De Spontanea disciplinarum seu Jlagellorum Cruce 
(1606, 4to ; German by Vetter, 1612) : — De Ecclesice ca- 
tholics sacris Processionibus (1606, 4to) : — Defensionis 
Bellarminianm (1st vol. 1607, fol. ; 2d vol. 1609, fob) : 
— Defunere chiistiano (1611, 4to). The catalogue of 
all his writings was published by himself in 1610 and 
1612. A complete collection of his works was pub- 
lished at Ratisbon, 1734-1741, 17 vols.foh See Bayle, 
Dictionary; Baillet, Jugements des Savants, vol. vi ; 
Niceron, Memoir es, vol. xxvii; Alegambe, Bibl. Script. 
Soc. Jesu ; Vita Gretseri (at the beginning of his Opera 
omnia) ; Sotwel, Bibl. Soc. Jesu ; August, et Alois de 
Backer, Bibl. des Ecrivains de la Compagnie de Jesus ; 
Dupiu, Nouvelle Biblioth. des Auteurs Eccles. xvii, 63; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xxi, 955. 

Greve or Greeve, Egbert Jan, a Dutch theo- 
logian and Hebrew scholar, was born at Deventer 
Sept. 4, 1754. He studied theology at Leyden, but 
refused in 1783 to sign the formula of union except as 
a human contrivance. He was elected representative 
in 1796, and became professor of Oriental languages 
and Hebrew antiquities at the University of Frane- 
ker in 1800. He wrote Ultima Cap'ta Jobi (38-42) 
ad griecam versionem recensita (part i, Deventer, 1788 ; 
ii, Burg- Stein fort, 1791, 4to): — a Dutch translation of 
most of the Epistles of St. Paul (1790, 8vo) : — Vaticin- 
inm Nahumi et Ilabacuci (Amsterdam, 1793, 8vo) : — 
Vaticinia Jesajte hebraica ad numeros recensuit , ver- 
sionem et notas adjecit E. J. Greve ; acccdit inteipretatio 
belgica (Amst. 1800, 2 vols. 8vo) ; etc. His posthu- 
mous works (in Dutch) have been published by Rhvn- 
vis Feith (Amst. 1813, 8vo). See Saxius, Onomasticon 
litterarium, part viii, p. 450; A. A. Lotzc, Laudatio E. 
J. Grcvii (Leyden, 1815, 8vo); Hoefer, Nouv. Biograph. 
Generate, xxi, 960. 

Greve, Jan, a Dutch Remonstrant divine, was born 
in the duchy ofCleves about 1580. He was establish- 
ed first at Arnlieim, then at Campen, and finally at 
Heusden. In 1619 he was expelled from the country 
for refusing to sign the confession of Dort. Return- 
ing again, he preached privately for a while, but was 
discovered, arrested, and condemned to remain for life 
in the prison of Amsterdam in 1619. His friends, how- 
ever, liberated him in 1621, after he had remained 18 
months in prison. This time he had improved by 
writing his most important work: Tribunal reforma- 
tum, in quo sanioris et tutioris justitice via judici Christi- 
ana in processu criminali commonstratur , rejecta et fugata 
tortura , cujus iniquitatem duplicem,fallaciani atque illici- 
tum inter christianos tisum , libera et nccessaria disstrta- 
tione aperuit (Hamb. 1624-35, 4to). He also published 
some letters in the Limburgu Episfol. Remonstr. eccles., 
among which there is one addressed to Vorstius, in 
which he gives an account of his liberation. — See 
Bayle, Dictionary, s. v. ; Moller, Cimbria litterata ; Jd- 


cher , Allgemeines Gelehrten-Lexik. ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, xxi, 960. 

Grey. See Gray. 

Grey, Richard, D.D.,an English divine, was born 
at Newcastle, 1694, and was educated at Lincoln Col- 
lege, Oxford. In 1721 he became rector of Hinton ; 
afterwards rector of Kincote and prebendary of St. 
Paul’s. He died in 1771, He published A System of 
English Ecclesiastical Law (Lond. 1743, 8vo), fur which 
the University of Oxford gave him the degree of D.D. i 
— Memoria Technica , a new Method of Artificial Memory 
(Lond. 1730, and often reprinted; last ed. Lond. 1851, 
12mo) : — A r ew Method of learning Hebrew without the 
Points (London, 1738, 8vo): — Liber Jobi, in Versieulos 
di visits (1742, 8vo). This work was criticised by W ar- 
burton, to whom Grey replied in An Answer to Mr. 
Warburton (Lond. 1744, Svo). — Darling, Cyclop. Bibl. 
i, 1333 ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Grey, Zachary, LL.D., an English divine and la- 
borious writer, was born of a Yorkshire family in 1687, 
and educated at Jesus College, Cambridge. He after- 
wards removed to Trinity Hall, where he took the de- 
gree of LL.D. in 1720. He was rector of Houghton 
Conquest, Bedfordshire, and vicar of St. Giles’s and St. 
Peter’s in Cambridge, and died in 1766. He was au- 
thor of nearly thirty publications, many of which are 
violent diatribes against Dissenters. The best known 
of his publications is his edition of Hudibras , with An- 
notations and a Preface (1744, 2 vols. 8vo) ; to this ha 
published a supplement in 1752 (Svo). He also wrote 
A n impartial Examination of NeaVs History of the Pu- 
ritans (Lond. 1736-44, 3 vols. Svo). This is a really 
valuable work in spite of its bitterness : — .1 Defense of 
our Ancient and Modern Historians (Lond. 2 vols. 1725 
-SO) : — The Ministry of the Dissenters proved to be Null 
and Void (Lond. 1725, 8vo). — Hook, Eccl. Biog. v, 412. 

Greyhound is the rendering given by our trans- 
lators of “TT (or rather C“'3r’2 “PT^T, zurzir' moth- 
na'yim, girded as to the loins, as the marg. renders ; 
Sept. «\f/crw s o IpTcipiirardiv $n)\daiQ a cock 

strutting about proudly among his h r ns; Vulg. ga lilts suc- 
emetus lumbos), given in Prov. xxx, 31, as an instance 
of gracefulness in gait. Gesenius (/ leb. Thes. p. 435) 
inclines to the opinion of Bochart ( llieroz . i, 103), 
Schultens ( Comment . ad loc.), and others, that it denotes 
a war-horse, as ornamented with girths and buckles 
about the loins. This is a more noble comparison 
than the cock (with the Sept., Vulg., Aquila, Theodo- 
tion, the Targums, the Syr. and Arab, versions, Joseph 
Kimchi, and others), the greyhound (with the Vencto- 
Greek, the other Ivimchis, Gershon, Luther, and oth- 
ers), or other more fanciful conjectures, e. g. the eagle, 
the zebra, etc., which may be seen in Fuller ( Miscell . 
Sacr. v, 12), Simonis (Exercitatio critica de VT“T,Hal. 
1735), and others. Maurer, however {Comment, ad loc.), 
thinks a wrestler is intended as girded for a contest, 
and he refers to Buxtorf {Lex. Talm. eol. 692) as con- 
firming the signification of athlete thus assigned to 
zarzir. The hound was evidently known in ancient 
times, as appears from the Egyptian monuments. See 
Dog. 

Grief (represented by numerous Ileb. words, Gr. 
\vTTif). The Oriental exhibits affliction over public or 
private misfortune, especially the death of a beloved 
relative or friend, by much more demonstrative signs 
than the European, although the degree of connection 
between the deceased and the mourner, and the great- 
er or more moderate vehemence of character of the be- 
reaved individual, naturally cause a certain modifica- 
tion of Iiis grief, which is too apt to be lost sight of by 
archaeologists. The customs of the ancient Hebrews 
were in this respect little different from those of mod- 
ern Orientals, and therefore derive ready elucidation 
from the accounts of modern travellers. In the most 


GRIEF 


1008 


GRIESBACH 



violent outburst cf sorrow, in the instantaneous over- 
flow of lamentation, 
they wrung their hands 
above the head (2 Sam. 
xiii, ID), or beat the 
breast with them (Nah. 
ii, 8; Luke xviii, 13; 
comp. Joseph. A nt. xvi, 
7, 5 : *150, KoTTTtaSai ; 
see Homer, II. ii, 700; 
Herodotus, ii, 85; Lu- 
cian, Luct. 12 ; Appian, 
Pun. 43; Virgil, jEn. 
iv, G73 ; xii, 871 ; Mar- 
tial, ii, 11, 5 ; Petron. 
Ill), or smote them 
upon the thigh (Jer. 
xxxi, 19; comp.Polvb. 
xv, 27, 11 ; Ilom. Odys. 


An ancient Egyptian woman em- xiii, 198; Plant. Trucul 
bracing ml weeping before her .. 7 , 9 . Doufftaei 
husband’s mummy. » . see ^ ou g tael 

Analect. l, 274) or on 

the head (Josephus, Ant. xvi, 10, 7), tore the beard and 
hair (Ezra ix, 3 ; Job i, 20 ; comp. Joseph. Ant. xv, 3, 
9 ; xvi, 7, 5 ; Barhebr. Ckron. p. 256 ; Virgil, EEn. xii, 
870 ; Ovid, Met. xi, 746 ; Apul. Met. ix, p. 212, Bip. ; 
Curtius, iii, 11, 25 ; Petron. Ill, 113 ; Martial, ii, 11, 5), 
strewed ashes (see Carpzov, De cinerum ap. Ilebr. usu, 
matrons atque luctus rtKpijpiq), Rost. 1739) on the head 
(1 Sam. iv, 12; 2 Sam. i, 2 ; xiii, 19 ; xv, 32; Neh. ix, 
1; Ezek. xxvii, 30; Lam. ii, 10; Job ii, 11; 1 Mace, 
iii, 47 ; iv, 39 ; xi, 71 ; 2 Mace, x, 26 ; xiv, 15; Judith 
ix, 1 ; 3 Mace, iv, 6 ; Rev. xviii, 19 ; Josephus, War, ii, 
12, 5; 15, 4; Ant. xx, 6, 1 ; comp. Homer, II. xviii, 23 
sq. ; xxiv, 164; Eurip. Suppl. 827 ; IlecubAOG ; Diod. 
Sic. i, 72, 91 ; Lucian, Luct. 12; Apulej. Metam. ix, p. 
212, Bip. ; see Burekhardt, Nubia, p. 475 ; Irwin, Trav. 
p. 303, 307 ; Kirchmann, Defuner. Rom. ii, 12 ; Mishna, 
Taanith, ii, 1), or rolled themselves in dust and ashes 
(Ezek. xxvii, 30; comp. Homer, II. xxii, 414; xxiv, 
640; Lucian, Luct. 12), tore the garments (see Hede- 
nus, De scissione vest. Ebrccis ac gentibus usitata, Jen. 
1663; also in Ugolini Tkes. xxix ; Wiehmannsliausen, 
De laceratione vestium ap. Ilebr . Viteb. 1716 ; also in 
LTgolino, xxxiii: this rending, however, had certain 
restrictions, Otho, Lex. Rabb. p. 360 ; see also Ugolino, 
De sacerdutio, ch. vi, in his Thesaur. xiii) from their 
breast (Gen. xxxvii, 29; xliv, 13; Judges xi, 36; 1 
Sam. iv, 12 ; 2 Sam. i, 2, 11 ; iii, 31 ; 1 Kings xxi, 27 ; 
2 Kings iv, 8; vi, 30; xi, 14; xix, 1; xxii, 11, 19; 
Ezra ix, 3; Esth. iv, 1 ; 1 Macc. ii, 14; iii, 47 ; iv, 
39 ; v, 14 ; xi, 71 ; xiii, 45 ; Judith xiv, 13, 15 ; Jer. xii, 
5 ; Ep. Jer. 30 ; Joseph. War, ii, 15, 2 and 4 ; Aets xiv, 


14; Mishna, Moed Katon , iii, 7; Shab. xiii, 3; comp. 
Barhebr. Chron. p. 256 ; Herod, iii, 66; viii, 99 ; Lucian, 
Luct. 12 ; Achil. Tat. iv, 6 ; Curtins, iii, 11, 25 ; iv, 30, 
23; v, 12, 33, 31 ; x, 5, 17 ; Sueton. Cces. 33 ; Nero, 42 ; 
Dougtaei Analect. i, 118; Arvieux, iii, 282), laeerated 
even their face and body (Jer. xvi, 6; xii, 5; xlvii, 5; 
Ezek. xxiv, 17 ; comp. Appian, Pun. 46; Virgil, jEn. 
iv, 673 ; xii, 871 ; Cicero, Leg. ii, 23, 59 ; Petron. xvi, 
111 ; Riippell, .4 byss. ii, 57), though this last (see Wicli- 
maniishausen, De corpora scissuris figurisque non crue- 
tando , Viteb. ; Michaelis, De incisura propter mortuos , 
in Ins Obscrv. soar. Arnhem. 1752, p. 131 sq.) was for- 
bidden by the Mosaic law (Lev. xix, 28 ; Dent, xiv, 1 
sq.), as it was in the twelve Roman tables (Cie. Leg. 
ii, 23 sq.). These marks of deep grief were usually 
combined together. At protracted and regularly ap- 
pointed seasons of mourning (for the deceased), persons 
were accustomed to fast (q. v.), put on mourning- 
weeds [see Sackcloth], cover up the lower part of 
the countenance (Ezek. xxiv, 17, 22; Micali .iii, 7; 
comp. Esth. vii, 8) or the entire head (2 Sam. xv, 80 ; 
xix, 4 ; Jer. xiv, 3, 4 ; Homer, Od. iv, 154 ; viii, 92), 
neglect to wash and anoint themselves (comp. Diod. 
Sic. i, 72 and 91), or cleanse their clothes (2 Sain, xiv, 


2 ; xix, 24 ; comp. 2 Sam. xii, 20 ; Dan. x, 3 ; Judith 
x, 2 sq.), and abstain from all ornament (Ezek. xxvi, 
16 [compare xxiv, 17]; Jonah iii, 6; Judith x, 3; 
comp. Ilomer, II. xxii, 468; Lycophron, Cassand. 862 ; 
Livy, ix, 7 ; xxxiv, 7 ; Sueton. Octav. 100), even lay- 
j ing aside their shoes (2 Sam. xv, 30 ; Ezek. xxiv, 17, 
23), and, as a special token of humiliation, shearing off 
the beard and hair, the pride of an Oriental (Isa. xv, 
2; Jer. vii, 29; xvi, 6; xii, 5; xlviii, 37; Ep. Jer. 
12 ; Amos viii, 10 ; Micah i, 16 ; Ezek. vii, 18 ; xxvii, 

; 31 ; comp. Homer, II. xxiii, 46 sq. ; Od. iv, 197 ; xxiv, 

1 45 sq. ; Euripid. Orest. 458 ; Alcest. 427 ; Diod. Sic. i, 
i 84 ; yElian, V. II. vii, 8 ; Herod, iv, 71 ; ix, 24 ; Cur- 
tius, x, 5, 17 ; Sueton. Calig. 5 ; Ovid, Ars. Am. iii, 38). 
In deep grief they also seated or lay themselves on the 
ground (2 Sam, xii, 16 ; xiii, 31 ; Isa. iii, 20 ; xlvii, 1 
[Ezek. viii, 14] ; Jonah iii, 6 ; Neh. i, 4 ; Job ii, 8 ; xvi, 
15 ; Matt, xi, 21, etc. ; comp. Josephus, Ant. xix, 8, 2 ; 
Philo, Opp. ii, 519 ; Homer, II. xviii, 26 ; see Kype, 
Observ. i, 261). Mourning usually lasted seven days 
(1 Sam. xxxi, 13; 1 Chron. x, 12; Judith xvi, 29; 
Sirach xxii, 12; Joseph. Ant. xvii, 8, 4; comp. Heliod. 
vii, 1 1 ; Lucian, Dea Syr. 52 sq. ; see Movers, Phonic . 
p. 200) ; in extraordinary cases, longer (Numb, xx, 29 ; 
Deut. xxi, 18 ; Joseph. War, iii, 9, 5). Wealthy per- 
sons were accustomed to hire professional mourning 
women (ri;3’ip 1 a, pnrjicee, Jer. ix, 16), who uttered 
loud wailing cries in the house and at the grave during 
the days of mourning (2 Chron. xxxv, 25), often in re- 
sponsive chants (JMoed Katon , iii, 8), and with instru- 
mental accompaniment ( Chd . xvi, 7). The same cus- 
tom is well known to have prevailed among the Greeks 
(see Potter, Antiq. ii, 407 sq.) and Romans. On the 
usages of the modern East, see Mayr, Schicksale, ii, 87. 
Public mourning was instituted upon general calami- 
ties ; the Jews were also obliged to take part in lamen- 
tation for the death of (heathen) rulers (Philo, Opp. ii, 
525 ; comp. Livy, ix, 7). It was a peculiarity of Per- 
sian usage that no mourner could enter the royal pal- 
ace (Esth. iv, 2), such probably being regarded as un- 
cleanly by the Zend religion (Creuzer, Symbol, i, 712). 
Sec generally Geier, De Ebroorum luctu Ingentiumque 
ritibus (Lips. 1656; ed. by Kail, Hafn. 1715; also in 
Ugolini Thesaur. xxxiii) ; Otlio, Lex. Rabb. p. 390 ; on 
the Grecian usages, Nicolai, De luctu Grcecorum (Marh. 
1698), and Lange, ObsciTatt. sacr. p. 346 sq. ; on mod- 
| ern Persian, Chardin, Voyage, vi, 485 sq. — Winer, ii. 

! 630. See Mourntno ; Funkral. 

Griesbach, Johann Jakob, an eminent German 
Protestant theologian, was horn at Butzbach, in Hesse 
Darmstadt, Jan. 4, 1745. He received his early edu- 
cation at Frankfort-on-the-Main, where his father was 
pastor, and afterwards visited successively the univer- 
sities of Tubingen, Halle, and Leipzig, where he studied 
theology under the leaders of the different schools. 
He staid longest at Tubingen, where the old dog- 
matic system and method were still prevalent ; but, 
having gone to Halle, Sender ’s teachings exerted a 
lasting influence on his mind, and led the way to his 
subsequent career. He became tutor in the university 
in 1771, hut, before entering on his duties, lie made a 
journey through part of Germany and Holland, and 
visited London, Oxford, Cambridge, and Paris. Crit- 
ical examination of the text of the Bible was then 
much in favor, and young Griesbach followed the cur- 
rent in the line in which he was soon to surpass all 
competitors, both in the opinion of posterity, and even 
in that of his contemporaries. However unimportant 
such critical researches may appear, on account of 
their mechanical minuteness, in view of the higher 
interests of religion and of seienee, we must remember 
that they were then not only useful, hut necessary, even 
apart from their immediate and manifest object. On 
his return Griesbach settled at Halle, where lie became 
professor in 1773; in 1775 he removed to Jena in the 
same capacity, and afterwards remained permanently 
attached to that university. His services were fully 


GRIESBACH 


1000 


GRIESBACII 


appreciated, and rewarded with honors and appoint- 
ments even of a civic nature; thus he was appointed 
to represent the state and the university at the diets 
and on other public occasions. He died March 24, 
1812. 

Griesbach’s name is inseparably connected with the 
criticism of the text of the N. T., so much so, indeed, as 
to throw all his works on other subjects entirely in the 
shade, and to form an epoch in that special depart- 
ment. In order to form a just estimate of his services, 
it is necessary to be thoroughly acquainted with the 
state of this science at the time. See Criticism, Bib- 
lical. Griesbach’s studies in regard to the text were 
first directed to the collecting and appreciation of va- 
rious readings. This field had often been gone over 
before, and it was thought that much less would be 
discovered in it than was found afterwards by paying 
greater attention to the quotations of the Greek fa- 
thers, and to some versions heretofore but little noticed, 
such as the Philoxenian, the Armenian, and the Gothic. 
Next he attempted to establish, on the basis of the 
ideas of Bengel and Sender, a history of the ancient 
text as a necessary basis for every improvement of it. 
On this history, all the details of which have not, 
however, proved correct, but have given a great im- 
pulse to researches, Grieshach founded a new theory 
of criticism, the rules of which were to regulate the 
choice and value of the various readings in individual 
passages, and which was based essentially on a combi- 
nation of historical facts and logical principles. Final- 
ly, Griesbaeh undertook the task on which his reputa- 
tion chiefly rests, viz. the publication of a critically 
amended edition of the text of the New Testament. 
Till then, among nearh r 360 editions, there had been 1 
but two forms of text, both originating in the 10th 
century, when criticism was yet in its infancy. The}’’ | 
were the so-called Textus receptus, which the Lutheran 
Church considered as unimpeachable; and the Com- 
plutensian , which circulated among the lloman Catho- 
lics. Bengel alone had dared to depart somewhat 
from the former, and that only by introducing a few 
readings of the latter. Griesbach’s innovation excited 
great alarm among the partisans of the existing texts. 
Joachim Hartmann, professor at Rostock, attacked him 
in a pamphlet in 1775 ; but this, as well as other simi- 
lar attacks, were answered by the preface of Gries- I 
bach’s second edition. His editions of the N. T. ap- * 
peared in the following order: 1. Libri A r . T. historlci i 
(Ilalle, 1774, pt. i, ii), containing the first three gospels ' 
arranged synoptically. To this belongs as vol. ii (1775), 
the first edition of the Epistles and of Revelation, and 
to the latter, again as vol. i, a second (non-synoptical) 
edition of the historical books. The synopsis was after- 
wards reprinted, sometimes separately. 2. The princi- 
pal edition (Halle, and London, 1706, 1806, 2 pts. 8vo), 
very complete, and with important prolegomena. 3. 
A costly edition (Leipz. 4 vols. small 4to, or small folio, 
1803-1807, in copper types ; 4th and 5th pocket edi- 
tions, Leipzig, 1805, 1825), like the preceding, but with 
the principal variations only. A new edition of the 
principal critical work of Grieshach was commenced 
in 1827 by David Schulz, but the first part only has 
appeared. The text of Grieshach has not remained 
intact in all these editions. It has often been used or 
referred to by others, and its peculiar readings, at least, 
are always introduced in the new critical editions. 
The other critical works of Grieshach are, De codici- 
Lus evv. oriyenianis (1771) : — Curie in historiam textus i 
epp. paul. (1777) : — Symbolic criticie ad supplendas et 
corriyendas I'arias X. T. lectiones (pt. i, 1785 ; ii, 1793) : 
— Comrnentarivs criticus in textum Gr. X. T. (1794 sq.). 
Little need be said of his other works. They are 
mostly academical essays on exegesis, history, and 
dogmatics, and were published by Gabler in 2 parts 
(Klcinere Schriften , 1825). Some of them, howeVer, 
possess yet a certain interest, as serving to show the 
progress made by science under the influence of the- 
III. — S s s 


j ologians, conservative at heart, but advancing never- 
theless more or less with the times. Such was Gries- 
baeh, who may, perhaps, not unjustly be called a mid- 
dle-party mail, in view of his Theojmeustie (1784), his 
Christoloyie d. Jlebraerbriefs (1791), and especially of 
his Anleituny z. Studium d. popular tn Doymatik (1779. 
1789, several ed.), a work considered at first as retro- 
grade and inconsequent by the so-called friends of 
progress. His Vorlesungen it. IJermeneutik d. X. T. : 
printed after his death (in 1815), belongs to the so-call- 
ed school of grammaticO' historical interpretation which 
prevailed during the author’s life, and is such a work 
as would naturally be expected from a pupil of Semler 
and Ernesti. 

“The peculiar principle of Griesbach’s system con- 
sists in a division of the Greek manuscripts of the New 
Testament into three classes, each of which is consid- 
ered as an independent witness for the various read- 
ings of the manuscripts which it comprises. He thus 
contemplates the existence of three distinct species of 
texts, which, with respect to their relationship or affin- 
ity, are called by Bengel , families,’ and by Semler, 
Grieshach, and Michaelis ‘recensions’ or ‘codices,’ 
namely: 1. The ‘Alexandrian’ recension or codex, 
comprehending manuscripts which, in peculiar read- 
ings, agree with the citations found in the early Greek- 
Egyptian fathers, particularly Origen and Clemens of 
Alexandria. 2. The ‘ Western’ recension, which is 
identified with the citations of the Latin fathers, espe- 
cially Cyprian and Tertullian, and was used by the 
Christians of Carthage, Rome, and the west of Europe. 
3. The ‘Byzantine’ or Asiatic recension, comprising 
numerous manuscripts which were used especially in 
the see of Constantinople and the adjacent Oriental 
provinces, and have furnished the received text, called 
the Greek Vulgate. Each of these recensions has char- 
acteristics peculiar to itself, yet no individual manu- 
script exhibits any recension in a pure state, but is as- 
signed to the Alexandrian or Western class, as the pe- 
culiar reading of each of those classes preponderate. 
Though Grieshach considers departures from the re- 
ceived Greek Vulgate as various readings, he does not 
allow the existence of any standard text as a criterion 
for determining which are genuine or spurious read- 
ings, his object being to show, not the character of par- 
ticular deviations from any individual recension, hut 
the general coincidence of manuscripts with one recen- 
sion or codex more than with another. The authorized 
text does not regulate, but is regulated by his critical 
opinion of its comparative value; and the immense 
number of various readings form a floating medium 
in which the genuine text is considered to be in all in- 
stances discoverable. However, although he professes 
to determine the value of readings by the number of 
classes by which they are supported, he constantly dis- 
plays a very decided preference for the Alexandrian 
class, which he places far above the two others in the 
rank of authority, a few manuscripts of this recension 
being supposed to outweigh a multitude of such as be- 
long to the Byzantine recension, which he regards as 
certainly the most untrustworthy of all ( Pro! . lxxii). 
The reason assigned l>3 r Griesbaeh for this decision is 
the fact that the Greek transcripts of this class contain 
a remarkably large number of suspected readings, ow- 
ing to the very great liberties taken by learned copy- 
ists in making successive alterations ; and finding the. 
coincidence of the numerous scriptural quotations of 
Origen of Alexandria with^he celebrated Greek man- 
uscript of the New Testament from that city to be very 
striking, he thence concludes that the passages now ex- 
tant in this father’s writings, of the commencement of 
the 3d century, discover the earliest, and therefore the 
purest text of which we have any knowledge to be 
that of the Alexandrian manuscripts. His ultimate 
choice of readings is consequently determined by the 
testimony of Origen, in confirmation of which he often 
adduces much collateral evidence from the primitive 


GKIESBACII 


1010 


GRIFFEN 


fathers and versions ; anti of the readings thus proved 
to be genuine is formed his corrected text of the New 
Testament. Against the complicated hypothesis on 
which Griesbach has based his system of recensions 
many very important objections were urged by learn- 
ed Biblical critics of Germany (as by Hartmann, men- 
tioned above), and in England, especially by archbish- 
op Lawrence and Dr. Frederick Nolan. The primary 
fact enforced by Griesbach, that the Alexandrian read- 
ings which are supported by the quotations of Origen 
possess the highest authority of all, is disputed by pro- 
fessor Matthiie, of Moscow, in his critical edition of the 
New Testament, and with greater confidence by pro- 
fessor Martin Scholz, of Bonn, in the prolegomena to 
his very learned and elaborate edition, founded on a 
system wholly at variance with that of Griesbach. The 
Alexandrian manuscripts are acknowledged by Scholz 
to be more ancient, but he asserts them to be more cor- 
rupt than any others, and contends that in Alexandria 
the alterations of the text principally originated. He 
divides all the manuscripts, not, as Griesbach, into three, 
but into two classes, the Byzantine and the Alexan- 
drian, in which latter he includes the Western ; and he 
gives a decided superiority to the authority of the By- 
zantine recensions, which, in opposition to Griesbach, 
he strenuously maintains to be directly derived from 
the autographs of the evangelists and apostles them- 
selves. The work by archbishop Lawrence on this 
subject is entitled Remarks upon the Systematical Clas- 
sification of Manuscripts adopted by Dr. Griesbach (1814, 
8vo). The learned author states that be considers 
Griesbach to be what bishop Marsh denominated him, 
‘the most consummate critic that ever undertook an 
edition of the New Testament;’ but in the course of 
his critical strictures on the origin and execution of 
his plan of appreciating manuscripts, he employs the 
severest terms of censure, observing that ‘ Griesbach’s 
mode of investigation is unsatisfactory, his classifica- 
tion fallacious, and his statement of the number of read- 
ings inaccurate; that no such classification of the man- 
uscripts of the New Testament is possible; the exist- 
ence of three distinct species of texts being a fact only 
synthetically presumed, and not capable of any ana- 
lytical demonstration ; so that the student finds he is 
treading, not on solid ground, but on a critical quick- 
sand.’ Griesbach was long and severely attacked by 
Trinitarian writers as an opposer of the doctrine of 
Christ's divinity, chiefly in consequence of his having 
rejected from his text the celebrated passage respect- 
ing the three that bare witness (1 John v, 7), and also 
for inserting bq for Dfog in 1 Tim. iii, 16, and Ki/piou 
for Bfou in Acts xx, 28. In consequence of these and 
other points in his critical works, the commendation 
and patronage of the Unitarians were bestowed upon 
him; but in the preface to his treatise on the apostol- 
ical writings, he makes the following solemn declara- 
tion : ‘ Ut iniquas suspiciones omnes, quantum in me 
est, amoliar, et hominibns malevolis calumniandi an- 
sam prscripiam, publice profiteor, atque Deum testor, 
neutiquam me de veritate istius dogmatis dubitare;’ 
and to this may be added a statement from his Prole- 
gomena r, namely, that ‘nulla emendatio a recentioribus 
editoribus tentata ullam Scriptuiai Sacrae doctrinam 
ini mn tat, ant cvertit,’ though ‘paucse sensnm senten- 
tiaruin afficiunt.’ The laborious and minutely learn- 
ed work by the Rev. Dr. Nolan, entitled An Inquiry 
into the Integrity of the Greek Vulgate, or Received Text 
of the New Testament , published in 1815, is chiefly occu- 
pied in presenting evidence to subvert the critical sys- 
tem of Griesbach, and to establish the position since 
taken by professor Scholz and others, that the Byzan- 
tine, and not the Alexandrian, codiees are the most 
worthy of reliance. ‘Griesbach’s theory,’ says Dr. 
Nolan, ‘ is one of the most elaborate of those that have 
unsettled the foundation on which rests the entire can- 
on. llis corrected text can be received only as a proof 
of the general corruption of the sacred Scriptures, and 


of the faithlessness of the traditionary testimony by 
which it is supported, since he states that the two prin- 
cipal classes of text, the Alexandrian and the Western, 
have been interpolated in every part; that the author- 
ized Greek version exhibits 150,000 various readings, 
and has remained 1400 years in its present state of cor- 
ruption ; that there appears, therefore, to be no reser- 
vation by which the doctrinal integrity of the sacred 
Scriptures can be saved ; for if, in the apostulic and 
primitive ages, corruption was prevalent, whatever be 
the text gathered out of the immense number of vari- 
ous readings, it may be as well any other as that orig- 
inally delivered by the inspired writers.’ Griesbach 
indeed declares, in his Symbolce Criiicee , that the man- 
uscripts of the Alexandrian and Western recensions, 
on which his system is founded, were grossly corrupt- 
ed in the age succeeding that of the apostles; that 
those which he held in the highest esteem were cor- 
rupted in every page by marginal scholia and inter- 
pretations of the fathers, and contained innumerable 
and very serious errors (‘ innnmeros gravissimosque 
errores’). lie further states in the same treatise that 
no reliance can be placed on the printed editions of the 
works of Origen, on the fidelity of his different tran- 
scribers, on the accuracy of his quotations, or, finally, 
on the copies of the Scriptures from -which he quoted ; 
so that, as observed by Dr. Nolan, we have only to take 
his own account of the state in which he finds the best 
part of his materials to discover the extreme insecuri- 
ty of the fabric -which he has raised on such a founda- 
tion. ‘His innovations,’ continues the same learned 
divine, ‘are formidable in number and nature ; his cor- 
rections proscribe three important passages (already 
named) affecting the doctrinal integrity of the inspired 
text ; for a proof once established of its partial corrup- 
tion in important matters must involve its character 
for general fidelity ; and the deservedly high charac- 
ter and singular merit of this learned edition mus, 
heighten apprehension and alarm at the attempts thus 
made to undermine the authority of the received text, 
for the scrupulous accuracy of its execution must al- 
ways command respect’” ( English Cyclop.'). See Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklopiidie. v, 389 ; English Cyclopedia , s. 
v. ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biogr. Generate, xxii, 25 ; Kothe, 
Gnesbach's Lebensbeschreibung (Jena, 1812); Seiler, 
Hermeneutics , p. 340 sq. ; Horne, Introduction to the 
Scriptures , vol. ii. 

Griffen, Benjamin, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, w as born in Mamaroneck, New York, June 6, 1792. 
When about nineteen years of age he joined the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church. Soon after his conversion he 
was received into the New r York Conference, and re- 
mained a member of that body (except for a short in- 
terval) for fifty years. In 1853 he was elected secre- 
tary of his Conference, and continued in that office un- 
til his death, which occurred at Rye, N. Y., Jan. 20, 
1861. Among the members of his Conference he was 
the youngest man of his age ; his cheeks had the fresh- 
ness of youth ; his step was firm and elastic; his voice 
retained its clearness and compass to the last; “his 
eye w r as not dim, nor his natural force abated.” Ilis 
activity, his vigor, his sprightly humor, and his flow r of 
spirits seemed as perfect at the last Conference he at- 
tended as they had ever been. He grew more and 
more genial as life advanced, and his Christian graces 
shone out more clearly. He was remarkable for his 
punctuality as -well as for his patient labor. Few men 
have performed more unrequited toil for the Church 
than lie. He was treasurer for many years of the 
Board of Conference Trustees, and also of the Ministers’ 
Mutual Assistance Society. He rendered his services 
with the strictest fidelity, and without an}" compensa- 
tion. He had been appointed for the third time to 
Kingston, but never reached his field of labor. God 
had prepared for him a mansion in heaven, and he en- 
tered it suddenly. His Master kindly brought the 
season of earthly labor and eternal repose close U> each 


GRIND 


1011 


GRIFFIN 

other. — Methodist, No. 52 ; Minutes of Conferences, 1862, 
p. 71. (G. B. D.) 

Griffin, E dmund D orr, A . M . , a Protestan t Episco- 
pal minister, was horn at Wyoming, Pa., Sept. 18, 1804. 
Early in life he gave proofs of classical proficiency in 
the composition of some Latin poems and poetic ver- 
sions, which were considered to possess rare excellence. 
In 1823 he passed A. 13. in Columbia College with dis- 
tinguished honor; and having studied theology two 
years in the New York Theological Seminary, he was 
admitted to deacon’s orders in 1826. After supplying 
for a time a church at Utica, he returned to New York, 
and was appointed agent to the Gen.Theolog. Semina- 
ry ; he became rector of St. James’s, New York, and the 
Associate Church of Bloomingdale, officiating also tem- 
porarily in Christ’s Church, New York, as assistant to 
Dr. Lyell. In 1828, his health failing, he sailed for 
Europe, and visited England, France, and Italy. On 
his return he commenced lecturing at Columbia Col- 
lege, April 13, 1830, on the History of Literature, con- 
tinuing the series which his friend, Prof. McVickar, 
had been obliged to suspend on account of ill health. 
Griffin’s lectures had great success ; and measures 
were in progress for the formation of a new chair of 
history in the college expressly for him, when, during 
the vacation, he was seized with inflammation of the 
bowels, and died Aug. 31, 1830. His MSS. were pub- 
lished after his death by his friend McVickar under 
the title Remains of Rev . E. D. Griffin (N. Y.,2 vols. 
8vo). They contain several pieces of poetry, some of 
which are in Latin ; an account of travels through 
Italy and Switzerland in 1829 ; notes on France, Eng- 
land, and Scotland in 1828, 1829, and 1830 ; extracts 
from his lectures, and some essays written while a stu- 
dent. See McVickar, Notice (in the Preface of the 
Remains of R. E. G.') ; Cyclop, of American Literature , 
ii, 391 ; Christian Review , iv, 35G; Sprague, Annals , v, 
671. 

Griffin, Edward Dorr, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born at East Haddarn, Conn., Jan. 6, 
1770, and graduated at Yale College in 1790 with distin- 
guished honor. After teaching for a time at Derby, 
he studied theology under the guidance of Jonathan 
Edwards, and was licensed in 1792. lie commenced 
his labors at New Salem, supplied at Farmington, and 
then was called to the Congregational Church at New 
Hartford, of which he was ordained pastor in 1795. In 
1800 he visited New Jersey, and supplied in Orange for 
a short time, when he accepted a call from Newark, 
where he was installed pastor in 1801, as colleague to 
Dr. MWhorter, whom he succeeded as pastor in 1807. 
In 1808 he received the degree of I).D. from Union 
College. In 1809 he was appointed to the Bartlett 
professorship in Andover, and in 1811 was installed in 
Park-street Church, Boston. In 1812-13 he delivered 
his celebrated Park-street lectures. On resigning his 
charge in Boston he returned to Newark, and was in- 
stalled in the Second Presbyterian Church in 1815. He 
interested himself warmly in the cause of the Africans, 
the American Bible and United Foreign Mission So- 
cieties. In 1821 he was appointed president of Wil- 
liams College, and filled that office most ably and ac- 
ceptably for fifteen years, resigning it in 1836, and re- 
tiring to Newark, N. J., where lie died, Nov. 8, 1837. 
1 1 is ministry was marked by numerous revivals. Dr. 
Griffin was a man of large intellectual proportions. 
“The peculiar cast of his preaching and other religious 
instructions and appeals was formed, more perhaps 
than that of many other great minds, by his cherished 
habit of precise discrimination on the leading points 
of the prevalent theology. In his course of teaching 
in mental philosophy he drew the current distinctions 
with great accuracy and decision. His theological 
writings are distinguished by lucid and energetic state- 
ments of the main points belonging to the theological 
views of the time, and in such statements his ability 


was not surpassed by any man of the age. His taste 
for those theological distinctions, his high sense of their 
value, and his facility and satisfaction in using them, 
gave his most rhetorical pulpit discourses remarkable 
internal coherence and compactness, and enabled him 
to command the judgments of his hearers by the force 
of a very stringent logic. The great prominence and 
intense light in which he placed some leading points 
of religious truth constitute the striking feature of his 
theological discussions. This trait is conspicuous in 
his Park-street lectures, his work on the Atonement, 
and some smaller publications on particular points of 
Christian doctrine. On the whole, the position and 
influence of Dr. Griffin are widely attested by the pro- 
found and general respect for his memory, and by the 
evident fruits of his labors. His power of clear, pene- 
tratiug, and, at the same time, of lofty and comprehen- 
sive thought — his skill and force in argument, his rhe- 
torical genius and culture, his eloquence, his majestic 
person and manner, all pervaded and controlled by his 
enlightened religious devotion, performed efficient ser- 
vice for the Church, and placed him among the great- 
er lights of his age” (J. W. Yeomans, cited by Sprague). 
He published The Extent of the Atonement (1819, 12mo): 
— Divine Efficiency (1833, 12mo) : — Causal Power of Re- 
generation, etc. (1834), and numerous Sermons Ad- 
dresses , Orations , and Lectures, from 1805 to 1833. — 
Sprague, Annals , iv, 26 ; Bibliotheca Sacra, Jan. 1858 ; 
Princeton Review , xi, 404 ; A m. Bib. Rep. iii, 623 ; N. A . 
Rev. xxxiv, 119 ; Cooke, Recollections of E. D. Griffin 
(Boston, I860, 8vo). 

Griffith, Benjamin, a minister prominent among 
the early Baptists in America. He was born in County 
Cardigan, South Wales, in 1688, and came to this coun- 
try in 1710, settling in Montgomery township, Penn. 
He was baptized in 1711, called to the ministry in 1722, 
and ordained in 1725. He enjoyed a successful minis- 
try, labored extensively, and churches still exist that 
were formed in the field of his itinerant labors. He 
published — 1. A Treatise of Church Discipline : — 2. 
Vindication of the Doctrine of the Resurrection : — 3. An- 
swer to “ The Divine Right of Infant Baptism ,” printed 
by B. Franklin, 1747. lie also wrote An Essay on the 
Power and Duty of an Association, and left it in MS. It 
was published in 1832. He died in 1768. (L. E. S.) 

Grimshaw, William, a minister of the Church 
of England, was born in Lancashire, Eng., in 1708, ed- 
ucated at Cambridge, and entered into holy orders in 
1731. After spending some years as minister of Todmor- 
den,near Rochdale, he was appointed in 1742 to the per- 
petual curacy of Haworth, in Yorkshire. In 1745 he 
entered into a close union with the Methodists, acted 
as Mr. Wesley’s assistant in what was known as the 
Haworth circuit, and until his death, which occurred in 
1763, was the mainstay of the connection in that part 
of the country. Mr. Grimshaw was the author of a 
Sermon in Defence of the Methodists , printed in 1749, 
and republished with his biography. “ He was of a 
cheerful, generous turn of mind, very courteous, and 
open as the day in his conversation with the people 
wherever he went. lie was a natural orator, spoke 
with great fluency, and preached the Gospel with great 
ability and approbation.” Wesley said of him, “He 
carries fire wherever he goes.” — Myles, Life of Grim- 
shaw ; Crowther, Poi'traiture of Methodism ; Newton, 
Memoirs of Grimshaio (Lond. 1799, 12mo) ; Stevens, 
History of Methodism, i, 258 ; Wesley, ITorFs, iv, 117 ; 
vi, 750. 

Grind (jH^J, tachan , to crush small, Exod. xxxii, 
20; Deut. ix, 21; specially with a hand-mill, Judg. 
xvi, 21 ; Numb, xi, 8 ; also tropically, to oppress the 
poor by exaction, Isa. iii, 15. In the expression “let 
my wife grind for another,” Job xxi, 10, it is put as the 
picture of abject poverty and degradation, i. e. let her 
become his mill-wench or menial ; comp. Exod. xi, 5 ; 
Isa. xlvii, 2). See Grits. In the earliest ?~es men 


GPJND 


1012 


GRIND AL 


took the pains to roast the kernels of grain (Serv. ad 
j£n. i, 184), and to pound them (Pliny, xviii, 23) in a 
mortar (rnEE, HETS) with a pestle (comp. Numb, xi, 
8), and this method of preparing it is still common (in 
small encampments) among the modern Arabs (Burck- 
hardt, Wcihaby , p. 36). Yet the hand-mill (iTSni^ 
“pro, ^ftpo/tuA?/) is an ancient invention (see Virgil. 
Moret. 19), for it was early employed by the Hebrews 
(Numb, xi, 8), and continued in use by them to the 
latest age (being often alluded to in the Talmud under 
the name “P or XT* 1 '? E*ni), and is still in 

common use (in villages) among the Orientals (Nie- 
buhr, Beschr. p. 51 ; Trav. i, 150 ; comp. Laborde, Com- 
meTitaire, p. 58). It consisted of two millstones (Plaut. 
Asmar. ii, 1, 16); the upper one (13^, the rider, Deut. 
xxiv, G; 2 Sam. xi, 21 ; or, fully, El 1 ! 1133, the rider- 
piece , Judg. ix, 53 ; in Greek, ovqq or impoXiov , Lat. 
catillus) was movable and slightly eoncave, so as to fit 
the surface of the stationary lower one (rPPinP) H3S), 
Job xli, 16; Gr. pvXg, Lat. metci). It was (in poor 
families) worked by the women (Shaw, Trav. p. 202 ; 


Joliffe, Trav. p. 37; Burckhardt, Arab. p. 187; Robin- 
son, ii, 405, G50; Wellsted, Trav. i,249; Thomson, Land 
and Book , ii, 295; see Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, ii, 223; 
comp. Mislma, Tohor. vii, 4), but in large households, 
where it was severe toil (Artemid. ii, 42), by slaves 
(Arvicux, Voy. iii, 204; Burckhardt, Arab. p. 187), as a 
female employment (Matt, xxiv, 41 ; Luke xvii, 35), 
and that of the most menial kind (Exod. xi, 5; Isa. 
xlvii, 2 ; Job xxxi, 10; eomp. Eccl. xii, 3; see Odys. 
vii, 103 sq. ; Simonid. Jamb. 85 sq. ; Plaut. Merc, ii, 3, 
02; Theophr. Char. 5 ; Aristoph. Nub. 1358; Callimach. 
in Del. 242), but also as a male task, especially in pun- 
ishment (Judg. xvi, 21 ; Lam. v, 13 ; compare Terent. 
Andr. i, 2, 29 ; Plaut. Been, v, 3, 33; Asinar. i, 1, 1G ; 
Epidic. i, 2, 42 ; Most ell. i, i, 16 ; Pollue. Onom. iii, 8 ; 
Cic. Quint, i, 2, 4 ; see Cod. Tkeodos. xiv, 3, 7.), such 
culprits being closely fettered (Terent. Phorm. ii, 3, 19 ; 
Plaut. Pers. i, 1, 21 sq.), and even blinded (Judg. xvi, 
21), by which means the giddiness arising from per- 
petually going round was at the same time avoided 


(see Herod, iv, 2, and compare the tradition that king 
Zedekiah was thus treated, Ewald, Jsr. Gcsih. iii, 445). 
An allusion to the noise of these mills, as being some- 
what pleasing to the domestic ear (like that of a mod- 
ern coffee-mill, which conveys an intimation of home 
comforts), seems to be contained in Jer. xxv, 10 ; Ecel. 
xii, 4; Lev. xviii, 22 ; others, however, consider these 
passages to refer to the singing, or rather screaming, 
of the females employed, as a means of diversion dur- 
ing their toil, or to drown the grating of the mill- 
stones (Hackett, Illustra. of Scnpt. p. 80). It was not 
lawful to distrain the family hand-mill for debt (Deut. 
xxiv, G). In later times large mills, worked by asses, 
w'ere used (l’VEH D^Ill, Buxtorf, Lexicon Chald . 
2252), as by the Greeks (p5Ao q ovikoq, Matt, xviii, G) 
and Romans ( asini molarii , Varro, R. R. i, 19, 5 ; 
Colum. vii, 1; Cato, R. R. x, 4; Ovid, Fast, vi, 318; 
Lucian. A sin. xxxviii, 42; Apulej. Metam. vii, p. 153, 
Bip. ; Digest, xxxiii, 7, 18), and as are still found in 
the East (Burckhardt, Spruchv. p. 41; Robinson, i, 
161; Russel, A leppo, i, 100). (On the subject gener- 
ally, see F. L.Goetze, Depistrinis re^.Cygn.1730 ; also 
in Ugolini Tkesaur. xxix; Hoheisel, De molis manu - 
alibus vet. Gedani, 1728 ; also 
in Ugolini, ib. ; Beckmann, 
Erfind . ii, 1 sq. ; Mongoz, in 
the Memoir es de Vlnstitut Roy- 
ale , class, d'kist. iii, 441 sq.). 
— Winer, ii, 119. See Mill. 

The grinders (r.i:np, t 0 . 
chanoth ', fern, ones grinding , 
by allusion to females so em- 
ployed) of Eccles. xiii, 3, are 
evidently the teeth, whose de- 
cay is an evidence of old age 
(comp. n;riE, tachanah r , mill, 
“grinding,” ver. 4). See Ca- 
per-plant. 

Grindal, Edmund, D.D., 
archbishop ofCanterbury, w ns 
born in the year 1519, in Cum- 
berland. lie was educated 
at Magdalen College, Cam- 
bridge, and was on all occa- 
sions distinguished as a learn- 
ed man at the university. In 
1550 he w'as selected by Rid- 
ley, bishop of London, as his 
chaplain. In 1553, on the 
death of king Edward VI, 
apprehending the persecution 
of the Protestants, he fled to 
Strasburg, in Germany, where 
he "was well received. Dur- 
ing his residence abroad he 
devoted much time to the du- 
ties of religion, to his studies, to the matter of the con- 
troversies at Frankfort, and to assisting Mr. John Fox 
in his Martyrology. In 1558, Grindal, on the accession 
of queen Elizabeth to the crown, returned to England ; 
was diligently employed in the reformation of relig- 
ion ; assisted in public disputations; preached at the 
court and at St. Paul’s with great zeal and piety; and 
in 1559, on the removal of Bonner, bishop of London, 
the queen thought none so fit to succeed him as Grin- 
dal. lie reluctantly accepted the office, but nobly dis- 
charged its duties. In 1575 he was nominated and ap- 
pointed for the see of Canterbury, but in 157G, oppos- 
ing the queen in some of her arbitrary proceedings con- 
cerning ecclesiastical affairs, he w r as sequestered from 
his office. In 1582 he offered his resignation, but, be- 
fore the measure was completed, he died on the 6th of 
July, 1583, at Croydon. Grindal was a man of sincere 
personal piety, and of great firmness and resolution, 
though of a mild and affable temper and friendly dis- 
position. In the time in which he lived, he was cele- 



Women grinding at a Mil!. 


GRISWOLD 


1013 


GROSSETESTE 


brated for liis episcopal abilities and admirable endow- 
ments for spiritual government, as well as his singular 
learning. The High -churchmen call him an ultra- 
Protestant, from the favor he showed to the Puritans, 
and from his abhorrence of Romanizing tendencies. 
His Remains , edited for the Parker Society, appeared in 
Cambridge, 1843 (8vo). — Jones, Christian Bing. p. 199; 
Neal, History of the Puritans , vol. i ; Burnet, History of 
the Reformation, vols. ii, iii ; Strype, Life and Acts of 
A bp. Grindal (Oxford, 1821, 8vo). 

Griswold, Alexander Viets, D.D., a bishop of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, was born April 22, 
1766, in Simsbury, Conn., and died in Boston Feb. 15, 
1843. He early evinced great capacity, and attained 
considerable proficiency in Greek and Latin, but unto- 
ward circumstances thwarted his desire of taking a col- 
legiate course. After studying law for several years, 
he decided to enter the ministry, and became a candi- 
date for orders in 1794, officiating in the parishes of 
Plymouth, llarwinton, and Litchfield ; was ordained in 
1795, and continued in charge of the three parishes 
named until 1804, when he accepted Bristol parish, R. 1. 
In 1809 he was chosen rector of St. Michael’s, Litchfield, 
and had accepted the call, but, being elected in May, 
1810, bishop of the Eastern diocese, then embracing 
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Hampshire, and 
Maine, the purposed change was not consummated. 
He was consecrated in May, 1811, and for some years 
discharged the double duty of bishop and parish priest. 
“The year 1812 was signalized by an extensive revi- 
val of religion under his ministry,” and “again and 
again his flock was visited with similar seasons of re- 
freshing from the presence of the Lord.” In reply to 
objections made against such “awakenings or reforma- 
tions,” he published some papers on “ Pra^'er-mcetings 
and Revivals,” in which he ably and zealously vindi- 
cates them from “the exaggerated charges of disorder, 
fanaticism, and delusion,” and maintains that under 
proper guidance they promote the religious life and 
power of the Church. Yielding to the general desire 
that his residence should be more centrally located for 
his diocese, in 1829 he accepted the rectorship of St. 
Peter’s, Salem, Mass., and removed thither in 1830. 
He remained in Salem until 1835, when provision hav- 
ing been made for his independent episcopal support, 
he removed to Boston, and devoted the remainder of 
his life exclusively to his episcopal duties. In 1842 
he was relieved by the appointment of an assistant 
bishop, whose consecration was his last ordaining act. , 
He died suddenly of heart disease. Bishop Griswold 
was eminently distinguished among the clergy of his 
Church for his evangelical spirit and earnest religious 
life. T lis chief works are, On the Reformation and the 
Apostolic Office (Boston, 12mo) : — Sermons (Phila. 1830, 
8vo): — Prayers (N. Y.):— j Remarks on Social Prayer- 
meetings (Boston, 1858, 12mo). See Stone, Life of Bish- 
op Griswold (Phila. 1844, 8vo) ; Sprague, Annals , v, 415 
-425; Christian Obseirer, J illy, 1843 ; Allihone, Diet, 
of Authors, i, 744. (J. W. M.) 

Grits from wheat appears from the Sept, in 2 Sam. 
xvii, 19 ; Prov. xxvii, 22, to be designated by the Heb. 
nisi, riphoth' (Vulg. ptisance , A. Y. “ground corn,” 
“ wheat”). This kind of meal food is still very com- 
mon in the East, and the Turks especially employ it in 
time of war (Faber, in Harmer, ii, 26). On the con- 
trary, the kali', or “parched corn,” of 2 Sam. 
xvii, 28, appears to be the roasted kernels of the newly- 
ripe grain, which is still eaten in that manner in Pal- 
estine (Robinson, ii, 668). See Corn. 

Grizzled (T"Q, barod', spotted), party-colored or 
variegated, as goats (Gen. xxxi,10, 12) or horses (Zech. 
vi, 3, 6). 

Groin. The edge formed by an intersection of two 
vaults (or curved ceilings). During the early part of 
the Romanesque period the groins were left perfectly 


plain, but later, and especially through the Gothic pe- 
riod, they were invariably covered with ribs (or mould- 
ings). — Parker, Diet, of Architecture (Oxford, 1864). 
(G. F. C.) 

Groningen School. See TIofstede. 

Groningenists, a sect of Anabaptists (q. v.), who 
met at certain stated periods in the city of Groningen. — 
Mosheim, Ch. History, cent, xvii, div. ii, pt. ii, cli. v, § 3. 

Groot, Geert (Lat. Gerhardus Magnus ), was born 
at Deventer in 1340, studied in Paris, and subsequent- 
ly taught philosophy and theology in Cologne. Be- 
ing possessed of a considerable property and of several 
prebends, he abandoned bimself to a luxurious life, 
from which he was recalled b}' a serious sickness and 
the impressive exhortations of a friend, the Carthusian 
Henry Aegcr. Thorough^ reformed, he entered the 
monastery of Monkhuysen, near Antwerp ; but he left 
it again after three years, in order to become a travel- 
ling preacher. In union with Florence Radwvn, he 
established at Deventer the Society of the Brethren 
of Common Life, which was sanctioned in 1376 by 
Gregory XL lie died at Deventer of the plague, 
August 20, 1384. He wrote De Yeridica Predicatione 
Evangelii : — De Sctcris Libns Studendis (both in Kem- 
pis, Opera, t. iii). Thirty-three treatises of his remain 
1 in MS. See Ullmann, Reformers before the Reforma- 
tion, vol. i; Bbhringer, Kirch c Christ >, vol. ii, pt. iii, 
p. 612-644; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. Groot. 
See Brethren of the Common Life. 

Groot, De. See Grotius; IIofstede. 

Gropper, Johann, a German Romanist divine, was 
born at Socst in 1501, became successivel}" canon of 
Cologne, provost of Bonn, and archdeacon and provost 
of St. Gereon of Cologne. He convoked a provincial 
synod in 1536 with the intention of effecting some re- 
forms, and w r as afterwards sent by Charles Y to the 
religious assembly of 1541 at Regensburg; he is even 
said to have framed the Interim which was there de- 
cided on. In 1548 he went to Soest, to reform the 
churches of that place agreeably to the Interim. In 
1551, on the occasion of the reopening of the Council 
of Trent, the pope called him to Rome for the purpose 
of consulting with him. Here he died, March 12, 1558. 
Gropper belonged to the class of milder Romanists who, 
at the time of the Reformation, sought to reunite the 
Protestants to the Church of Rome by means of con- 
ciliator} r measures. His principal works are, Antidi- 
dagma (against the archbishop Hermann, Cologne, 
1544) : — Institutio catholica (1550): — Vonwahrer u. blei- 
bender Gegenwart d. Leibcs u. Blntes Christi (1556) : — 
Capita institutionis ad pietatem (1557), etc. — Herzog, 
Real-Encykl. s. v. ; Dieringer, Kathol. Zeitschrift (vol. 
ii, 1844). 

Grosseteste, Groce-teste, Grostest, Grost- 
head, Groshead (Capito, “Qui cognominatus est 
a pluribus Grossum-caput,” Trivet.), Robert, bishop 
of Lincoln, a celebrated ecclesiastic, theologian, states- 
man, mathematician, astronomer, natural philosopher, 
poet, moralist, and teacher, in the first half of the thir- 
teenth century. The various forms of the name indi- 
cate that it was a descriptive epithet, agnomen , or by- 
name, rather than a family designation, which was still 
no common appendage. The nickname has been ren- 
dered historical by the career of its bearer, who con- 
tended with pope and king, was the early counsellor 
of Simon De Montfort, the teacher, patron, and friend 
of Roger Bacon and Adam De Marisco, the colleague 
of the scarcely less eminent Robert Bacon and Richard 
Fitzakre. lie has often been regarded as the first 
translator of the Scriptures into English, and as the 
precursor of the Protestant Reformation, and his con- 
tinued reputation is mainly due to his strenuous and 
bold resistance to the corruptions of the Church at 
home, and to the vices of the papal court. The thir- 
teenth century is one of the most active, bustling, 
eventful, and important in the whole series of the ages. 


GROSSETESTE 


1014 


GROSSETESTE 


It is crowded with great personages. It is full of 
mighty events attendant on 

The spirit of the years to come, 

Yearning to mix himself with life. 

Not the least notable of these mutations occurred in 
England in the reign of Heirty III, and laid, in the 
midst of anarchy and strife, the foundations of the 
English Church, the English jurisprudence, the Eng- 
lish liberties, the English language, literature, philoso- 
phy, and seience. In all of these movements Robert 
Grosseteste was concerned, and on all these forms of 
national development he left the impress of his genius 
and eharaeter. 

Life. — Robert Grosseteste was horn, about 1175, at 
Stradbrooke, in the county of Suffolk, England. II is 
origin was extremely humble, and little is known of 
his early career exeept that he studied at Oxford, and 
that law, physie, and divinity all received his atten- 
tion. He is supposed to have extended his education 
at Paris, and to have held a chair in its university. 
He owed his first ecclesiastical appointment apparently 
to the bishop of Hereford, to whom he had been com- 
mended by a letter of Giraldus Cambrensis. His su- 
perior died in 1199, but his character and talents se- 
cured promotion. Between 1214 and 1232 he held suc- 
cessively the archdeaconries of Wilts, Northampton, 
and Leicester, and various other livings, including the 
prebend of Clifton at Lineoln. In 1224, at the request 
of Agnellus, provincial of the Franeiseans, he became 
reader in the recently founded Franciscan school at 
Oxford, and inaugurated the brilliant career of that 
university (Eecleston, De Adveniu Frutruni Minorum , 
c. v.). This function he discharged till his elevation 
to the episcopate. It was probably during these years 
that lie was rector scholarum , or chancellor of the uni- 
versity, and was associated with Robert Baeon, the 
head of the Dominican school there. In January, 1232, 
he contemplated a visit to Rome, but was retained by 
his bishop. Towards the end of this year he liad a 
violent attack of fever, and resigned all his prefer- 
ments in the Church except his prebendal stall at Lin- 
coln. His own feelings on this occasion are perpetu- 
ated in his letters to his sister and to his friend ( Epp . 
viii, ix). During this year he had undertaken the de- 
fence of the Jews against the outrageous persecutions 
and criminations to which they had been exposed sinee 
the Jewish massacre at the aeeession of Richard I. He 
further manifested his solicitude for them by laboring 
for tbeir conversion. Ilis zeal is illustrated by his 
V Letter and his treatise De Cessatione Legalium. His 
acquisition of Hebrew ma v have been the cause or the 
consequence of this intervention. In 1235 he was 
eleeted to the bishoprie of Lineoln. His promotion is 
commemorated by our earliest English poet, Robert of 
Gloucester ; 

Master I’oberd Groce teste thulke zer was al so 

Isacre 1 bissop of Liocolne at Seinte Edmunde at Kedinge. 

His duties were onerous ; the dioeese was the largest 
and the most populous in the realm (Ep. xli)„ Ilis 
new cares did not diminish at any time bis active in- 
terest in the University of Oxford, which owned his 
jurisdiction. 

When he accepted the mitre there was general dis- 
order among the ecclesiastics subjected to him ; there 
was a total want of settled discipline ; there was con- 
stant recaleitration against authority ; there was re- 
fractoriness in bis own chapter, which eventuated in 
protraeted contention ; ignorance, licentiousness, simo- 
ny, and greed were prevalent. There was twofold and 
simultaneous danger from royal rapacity and papal ex- 
action. His position was full of annoyance and haz- 
ard, hut he addressed himself at once to the correction 
of abuses, to the resistance to eneroaehment, and to the 
earnest performance of his solemn fnnetion§. He first 
set his own house in order, and reformed the episeopal 
establishment. A detailed and interesting ordinance 


was prepared for the governance of his household (Mon. 
F rancisc. Append, ix). The sons of the highest nobles, 
among them those of Simon de Montfort, were intrust- 
ed to him for training. lie is supposed to have com- 
posed for these eleves his manual De Moribus Pueri ad 
Mensam , which is an early type of the popular Stans 
Ptcer ad Mensam, of which so many variations have 
been published by Mr. Furnivall in The Babees ' Poke. 
In the first year of his episeopaey he commenced the 
visitation of the parishes, deaneries, archdeaconries, 
ete., under his rule. He frequent!}' encountered dis- 
obedience, but be proceeded with energy and firmness. 
The enmity thus provoked stimulated an attempt to 
poison him. His life was saved by his friend and 
leech, John de S. Giles. One of his reformatory meas- 
ures lias a special interest for the student of mediaeval 
literature and antiquities. He suppressed the celebra- 
tion of the “Feast of Fools” in his eathedral, designat- 
ing it as “ vanitate plenum et v oluptatibus spurcum , Deo 
odibile et deemoni amabile" ( Ep . xxxii). The charac- 
ter of this festival is copiously illustrated in the addi- 
tions to Du Cange (tit. Kaltndce). Warton has con- 
founded it with the Festum Asinorum, whieh took plaee 
on the Nativity, not on the Cireumeision. The bishop 
also prohibited Seot-Ales in chapters, synods, and on 
holy days. His earnestness for the spiritual improve- 
ment of his diocese, for the maintenance of religious 
purity, and for the advancement of knowledge, is 
shown by liis Pastoral Letter or Constitutions in 1238 
(Ep. lii); by bis refusal to confer benefiees on unworthy 
persons, even when powerfully connected and sustain- 
ed (Epp. xlix, lii, lxxiv) ; by his opposition to the 
king's appointment of clerks as justices in eyre (Epp. 
xxvii, xxviii, lxxii); by his anxiety to purchase from 
John de Foxton his copies of the saered Scriptures 
(Ep. xxxiii); by his interference in behalf of the 
scholars of Oxford after their riotous attack on cardi- 
nal Otlio, and by his consideration for them on other 
occasions. To Grosseteste is due the speeial jurisdic- 
tion conceded to the university in 1244, a privilege ob- 
tained by Cambridge only sixty years later. His rig- 
orous episcopal visitations induced expostulations from 
Adam de Mariseo, and furnished a text for the cen- 
sures of Matthew Paris. They culminated in the 
great contention of 1239 with his canons, whieh was 
only settled six years later by pontifical decree. Its 
commencement is marked by an elaborate epistle or 
essay, which asserts the episeopal rights through all the 
ponderous forms of scholastic reasoning (Ep. cxxvii). 
The question of the limits of authority and obedienee, 
and of the respective boundaries of concurrent or con- 
flicting authorities, was indeed the main root of discord 
in all the great debates of Church and State, of the pa- 
pacy and the empire, in the thirteenth century. 

"While this controversy was in progress Grosseteste 
displayed his accustomed energy in manifold direc- 
tions. He maintains an intimate correspondence with 
the king, with the queen, with the archbishop of Can- 
terbury, with the legate, with the cardinals, with the 
chiefs of the Franeiseans and the Dominicans, to both 
of whieh orders he was warmly attached. He gives 
constant adviee to De Montfort in his oseillating for- 
tunes ; he constantly seeks it for himself from Adam 
de Mariseo. He keeps up and extends his studies in 
man}' ways. With the assistance of a Greek monk 
from St. Alban’s and other scholars, be translated the 
spurious Testaments of the XII Patriarchs , and other 
Greek works. This version of the Testaments may 
have originated the tradition that he translated the 
Bible. He resisted the seandalons appointment of 
Italians, Poitevins, Provencals, and Savoyards to the 
rich benefices as they felL^jfl^nt. He opposed the 
extravagance and favoritism oFthe king, and in 1244 
seeured the united-reply of the “ Committee of XII on 
royal expenditures” that they would not grant the aids 
demanded without a pledge of the reformation of 
abuses and the expenditure of the money by the com- 


GROSSETESTE 


1015 


GROSSETESTE 


mission for the king’s benefit. This was the prelude 
to the Provisions of Oxford and the Barons’ War. In 
November of this year, bishop Grosseteste, with his 
friend and habitual adviser, brother Adam, proceeds to 
the papal court to look after the appeal of his chapter 
on the subject of visitation. He is thus present at the 
General Council of Lyons in 1215, which had been 
summoned for the condemnation, excommunication, 
and deposition of the emperor Frederick II. He does 
not appear prominent in the proceedings of the grand 
assemblage. His remote diocese, his resistance to pa- 
pal aggression, the connection of Frederick with llenry 
III of England and with the earl of Leicester, may 
have precluded any ardent sympathy with the furious 
arrogance of Innocent IV. But his own letters and 
his subsequent conduct show that he sustained the 
general action of the pontiff, whose cause was assured- 
ly that of national liberty and independence against 
the menace of universal imperialism. In the autumn 
of this ominous year Grosseteste returned to England, 
having obtained a satisfactory decision in regard to his 
authority. His right of visitation was acknowledged, 
but a comparison of his letters with the statements of 
Matthew Paris demonstrates that he did not obtain all 
that he demanded from the pope. It is equally erro- 
neous to suppose that he sacrificed any principle in urg- 
ing the collection of the ecclesiastical subsidy granted 
to Boniface, the new archbishop of Canterbury. There 
is no abatement of his principle or of his resolution. 
He resumes his visitations, and extends them to the 
rich monasteries. They provoke fresh opposition, and 
occasion fresh complications. At the king’s request, 
he writes upon the reciprocal relations of the sacer- 
dotal and kingly powers. Despite of all obstacles, he 
sturdily maintains his course. He contends in Parlia- 
ment against the exactions of the king and the intru- 
sion of foreigners into English benefices. He contin- 
ues his anxious supervision of the University of Ox- 
ford ; is sedulous in offices of prudence and charity, es- 
pecially in ministering to the wants of poor scholars. 
He is indefatigable in his own pursuits. To this pe- 
riod must be referred the affectionate letter of Adam 
de Mariseo dissuading him from excessive study : 
“ Xumquul non est iemperandus labor litteralis sludii 
quod indubilanter nostls quia vitales spiritus exhaurit 
et attenuat corporis habitudinem , exasperat aflectionem 
et rationem obnubilat ?” .... (£/>. xxxix.) The 
renewed resistance to his visitations, particularly by 
the monasteries, the dissensions thus engendered, and 
his differences with Boniface of Savoy, his arch- 
bishop, and the uncle of the queen, compelled him to 
make another visit to Lyons in 1250. lie was coolly 
received by Innocent, and, at the close of an excited 
conversation, exclaimed, “ Oh, money, money, how 
powerful you are, especially at the court of Borne!” 
He had anticipated the denunciations of Dante and 
Petr.. rcli. He gave larger development to his hon- 
est indignation in the celebrated sermon on papal 
abuses w hich he preached on the 13th of May before 
the pope and three of the cardinals. This daring re- 
buke was not calculated to conciliate favor at court, 
and he turned his face homeward in December “ tris- 
tis et vacuus .” lie came back wounded in spirit, and 
burdened with age, care, and anxiety for the future. 
He contemplated the resignation of his bishopric — no 
unusual procedure at that time — and seclusion with his 
books ; but he was induced to renounce this purpose by 
the representations of Adam de Mariseo and other 
friends — perhaps by the authority of the archbishop — 
and the fear that the temporalities would be despoiled 
by the king during the vacancy. The determination 
to retain his high office was marked by increased vig- 
or in the repression of scandals. Matthew Paris cen- 
sures with great bitterness his severity in putting down 
monastic luxury, but admits the righteousness of his 
purpose. Ilis first open breach with the pope occurred 
at this time. He had refused the pontifical request to 


induct an Italian, ignorant of English, into a rich cure. 
He was suspended for a short time in consequence. 
This did not arrest his reforming ardor. He excom- 
municated an unworthy nominee of the king’s, aud 
placed an interdict on the church to which lie had been 
presented. In the great Parliament of London, Octo- 
ber 13, 1252, he opposed the king’s demands, fortified 
by the pope’s bull, and induced his brethren to join in a 
firm refusal of the application for a new subsidy. On 
this occasion he had a computation made of the in- 
comes of the Italians beneficed in England by Inno- 
cent, and found that they reached 70,000 marks, or 
thrice the clear revenue of the crown. He addressed 
a formal appeal to the lords and commonalty of Eng- 
land to suppress this disastrous spoliation {Ep. cxxxi). 
It was the first direct claim of popular support in ec- 
clesiastical and political dissensions, and indicated the 
course to Simon de Montfort as a popular leader. His 
conduct was still more decided and menacing at the 
Parliament of May, 1253. In this year, the last of his 
long and useful life, Grosseteste gave the final affront 
to Innocent IV, and by one notable act, in strict ac- 
cordance with his whole previous career, secured the 
highest public favor, and won the renown by which he 
is chiefly remembered. He rejected the pope’s de- 
mand of a canonry at Lincoln for his nephew, Fred- 
erick di Lavagna, conveying his refusal in a letter of 
strong argument and striking condemnation of the per- 
nicious “ non-obstantes" and “ provisions ” of the papal 
procedure. It was a note of preparation for Edward 
Ill’s celebrated “ Statute of Provisors” nearly a hun- 
dred years afterwards (1344). This sharp letter con- 
cludes with the declaration il fllialiter et obedienter non 
obedio , contradico , et rebello ” ( Ep . cxxviii). The pope 
was thrown into uncontrollable rage by this letter, but 
his rage was exchanged for equally unseemly joy when 
he heard of the death of Grosseteste within the year. 
This event occurred at Buckden on the 9th of Oct., 
1253. His remains were buried in Lincoln Cathedral, 
where they were joined about four years later by those 
of his friend, Adam de Mariseo, “God so providing that, 
as they were lovely and amiable in their lives, so in 
death they should not be divided” ( Lanercost Chroni- 
cle'). 

The contemporaneous and posthumous fame of Gros- 
seteste insured a copious crop of legends, lie was 
supposed to have prophesied the ensuing civil war, 
which he might have done without any extraordinary 
illumination. On the night of his death, bells ring- 
ing in the sky were heard by Mr. Bishop, of London, 
and by some Franciscan friars in the neighborhood. 
He appeared in a portentous dream to Innocent IV in 
his last illness. Miracles were attributed to him, and 
in 1307 the king requested his canonization. To him 
was also ascribed the talking head of brass, which has 
been sometimes assigned to Friar Ba£on, and some- 
times to Friar Bungay; but this arose from his reputa- 
tion as a magician, and not as a saint. His books he 
bequeathed to the Franciscans at Oxford, out of friend- 
ship for Adam de Mariseo, or out of regard for the 
school which he had taught, governed, cherished, and 
organized. The services rendered by Bobert Grosse- 
teste to the University of Oxford have been too little 
appreciated. 

Character , Acquirements, and Influence. — There was 
no one in the age in which he lived who led a more 
blameless life, or displayed higher excellences than 
Grosseteste : Matthew Paris, whose temperament and 
associations bred prejudice, attests his pre-eminent vir- 
tues. The elegance of his manners attracted admiring 
comment ; the placidity and placability of his disposi- 
tion equalled his unyielding resolution. The eulogy 
pronounced upon him after his death by the Universi- 
ty of Oxford was entirely just : “ No one knew him to 
neglect any good action appropriate to his office or his 
charge from fear of any man ; he was ever ready for 
martyrdom if the sword of the executioner should pre- 


GROSSETESTE 


1016 


GROSSETESTE 


sent itself.” This testimony is re-echoed by Adam dc 
Marisco. lie was essentially a reformer without be- 
ing an innovator. He “stood upon the ancient ways” 
to restore, preserve, or improve what was good and 
old. In this sense he was a reformer in Churcli and 
State, in education, in letters, and in philosophy. He 
is not to be regarded as a reformer before the Refor- 
mation — as a herald of either Lollardism or Luther- 
anism. His career tended to that result, but it was 
unforeseen and undesigned. He is devoted to the or- 
der of the Church, solicitous for Catholic orthodox}', 
imbued with the spirit, sentiments, and doctrines of liis 
communion. These points are abundantly confirmed 
bv his letters {Epp. lxxii, cxxii). Notwithstanding 
the sternness and severity of his ministry, there was 
great gentleness in his demeanor, with moderation and 
prndence in his private and public counsels, lie seems 
to have had withal a very moderate opinion of his own 
judgment, and habitually sought aid from others whom 
he deemed wiser than himself. He was easily charm- 
ed with simple amusements, enjoyed a jest, and had a 
rich vein of native humor, as numerous anecdotes at- 
test. This lofty character was sustained and irradi- 
ated by transcendent genius and splendid accomplish- 
ments. These can be only imperfectly appreciated 
from his remains published or preserved. They must 
be estimated from the commendations of his own and 
of immediately succeeding times. His pupil, Roger 
Bacon, calls him “ sapientissimus Latinorum, ” and “ sa- 
pientissimus theologus et optimus homo" {Opus Minus, p. 
§17, 320), and remarks that “Grosseteste alone knew 
the sciences” ( Opus Tert. c. x ; Compend. Stud. c. viii); 
that “ Robert, bishop of Lincoln, and Brother Adam de 
Marisco, were perfect in all wisdom, and that no more 
were perfect in philosophy” than these two, and Avi- 
cenna, and Aristotle, and Solomon {Op. Tert. c. xxxi); 
that the said Robert and Adam were “the greatest 
clerks in the world, perfect in divine and human knowl- 
edge” {Ibid.c. xxiii). Tyssington speaksof him, U cujus 
comparatio ad omnes doctores modernos est velut compa- 
ratio solis ad lunam qnando eclipsatur .” The range of 
his acquirements will be partially illustrated by the 
number and variety of his writings. He is credited 
with a consummate mastery of all existing science, 
and with a knowledge of the three learned professions. 
Roger Bacon distinctly assigns to him the adoption or 
the inauguration of the Experimental Method {Comp. 
Stud. c. viii). Several poems, Latin, French, and even 
English, are attributed to him ; and he certainly en- 
couraged the use of the English tongue in preaching, 
and it may have been, from his employment of the still 
rude vernacular, that he became the most popular as 
well as powerful preacher of his clay. He is reputed 
to have been familiar with Greek and Hebrew, but we 
are assured that he attained only in advanced life a 
sufficient mastery of the former to translate Greek 
books {Roy. Bacon , Op. Tert. c. xxv), and then not with- 
out more competent assistance {Comp. Stud. c. viii). 
The vast influence which he exercised over his con- 
temporaries and our succeeding times is ably present- 
ed by Luard {Pref. p. lxxxv, ix) : “ No one,” says lie, 
“ had a greater influence upon English thought and 
English literature for the two centuries which follow’ed 
his time; few books will be found that do not contain 
some quotations from Lincolniensis, “the great clerk 
Grostest.” 

Writings. — The w'orks of Grosseteste have been di- 
versely reported at 200 and 300. The difference of 
estimation, as well as the magnitude of the sum, may 
be explained by loose modes of enumeration, as indi- 
cated by the comparison of the lists of Roger Bacon’s 
treatises with his actual remains. Divisions or chap- 
ters were frequently accounted separate productions. 
The same w r orks w-ere circulated under differenftitles. 
Many of Grosseteste’s alleged books w'ere oply elabo- 
rate epistles or occasional essays, which would now 
pass as tracts. Many compositions were assigned to 


him of which he w r as guiltless; many fathered upon 
him to secure the favor of his name. But, after all 
such rectifications, the multitude and multiplicity of 
his w’ritings must have been amazing, especially when 
regarded as the leisure fruitage of an active life. Most 
of them have been lost, destroyed, or forgotten. Le- 
land humorously reports the disappointment attending 
his own eager exploration of the Franciscan treasures 
at Oxford at the time of the dissolution of the monas- 
teries : “ Snmme Jupiter! quid ego illic invent ! Pul- 
verern autem invem , tolas aranearum , tineas , blattas, si- 
tum denique et squalorem. Inveni etiam et libros , sed 
quos tribus obolis non emerem ” {Script. Brit. p. 2SG). 
Much, how'ever, remaiifs, the greater part of which is 
still unpublished. In Pegge’s Life of Grosseteste — 
“the scarcest of modern books” — the list of his writ- 
ings fills twenty-three quarto pages, closely printed. 
Similar catalogues are given by Leland, Tanner, Gu- 
din, etc. These it w ere unreasonable to repeat or to re- 
view. He was the reputed author of a religious ro- 
mance in verse, Chasteau d' Amour, and of the didactic 
poem Manuel Peeke , translated by Robert dc Brunne. 
Richard Ilampole’s Prikke of Conscience has also been 
referred to bin). He may have composed or compiled 
the rude draft of these noted productions, or may have 
provided the crude materials with which they w’ere 
constructed. We know from many sources that the 
venerable bishop w*as devoted to music, and “smit 
with the love of sacred song.” Polyear]) Leyser 
ascribes to him the metrical Dialogus inter Corpus et 
Animam , of which many versions exist in Anglo-Nor- 
man, English, Greek, Provencal, French, German, 
Walloon, Spanish, Italian, Danish, and Swedish {Lat- 
in Poems of Walter Mapes, ed. Wright, p. 95-10G, 321, 
349), and whose echoes may have occasioned Tennyson's 
Two Voices. Grosseteste left behind him many moral 
and theological treatises, and a copious collection of 
sermons. He wrote commentaries on Aristotle and 
Boethius, and translated several works from the Greek. 
He wrote on agriculture, digested according to the cal- 
endar, The BuLe of Husbandry , and of Pluntynge and 
Graffynge Trees and Vynes, according to Wynkyn dc 
Worde’s title of the version printed by him. This was 
probably compiled from Palladius and the Geoponica. 
We trace in the letters of Adam de Marisco his untir- 
ing interest in all physical research and contempora- 
neous history; and from Roger Bacon we learn that 
he w'rote De hide, de Cometis, et de aliis {Conip. Stud. c. 
viii), including probably a discussion of tides. Other 
works have been alluded to already. But the most in- 
teresting of his remains, for the kuowdedge of the man 
and of his age, is the large volume of his letters, from 
which, and from the instructive preface by Mr. Luard, 
this notice lias been principally drawn. 

Authorities. — The fascination of Grosseteste’s name 
has in successive centuries excited the enthusiasm of 
biographers, but has rarely resulted in the accomplish- 
ment of their designs. Bishop Barlow, of Lincoln ; 
Samuel Knight, the biographer of dean Colet and 
Erasmus, and Anthony h Wood, collected materials 
for his life. Williams, archbishop of York, previously 
bishop of Lincoln, the successor of lord Bacon in the 
custody of the seals, meditated the publication of Gros- 
seteste's life and writings in three volumes folio, hut 
was prevented by the outburst of the Great Rebellion. 
Edward Brown, of Clare Hall, designed a life of the 
great bishop, but was anticipated by death in 1099. 
Dr. Samuel Pegge achieved his biography, which is 
valuable, but unattainable. Other authorities, some 
of which have been previously referred to, are Leland, 
Script. Ilist. Brit. ; Ball, Script. III. Maj. Brit. ; Tan- 
ner, Bibliotheca ; Wharton, A nglia Sacra ; Oudin, Script. 
Eceles. : Pope Blount, Cens. Celebr. A uct. ; Godwin, De 
Pnvsulibns Anglim ; -Cave, Script. Ecel. Ilist. ; Warton, 
Hist. English Poetry ; Episfolce Roberli Grosseteste , edit. 
Luard ; Monument a Franeiscana , ed. Brewer, contain- 
ing Eccleston, DeAdventu Fratrum Minorum , and Ada - 


GROSTETE 


1017 


GROTIUS 


mi de Marisco Epistole , with valuable appendixes ; 
Rgeri Baconis Opera Anecdoia , edit. Brewer; Royal 
and Historical Letters regn. Henry III. The last four 
works are published by the British Treasury, in con- 
tinuation of the task of the Record Commission. To 
these authorities should be added the Chronicles of 
Matthew of Paris, Matthew of Westminster, Roger of 
Wendover, Capgrave, Trivet, Rishangcr, and Laner- 
eost. See also Lechler, Robert Groscieste (Leipsig, 
18G7). (G.F.II.) 

Grostete, Claude, a French Protestant theolo- 
gian, was born at Orleans in 1617. He studied law, 
and was admitted to the bar by the Parliament of 
Paris in 1GG5, but afterwards devoted himself to the- 
ology, and in 1675 became pastor of Lisy. In 1682 he 
accepted a call to Rouen, but soon after returned to 
Lisy, where he remained until the revocation of the 
edict of Nantes in 1G85. Obliged to leave France, he 
went to England, and died at London in 1718. lie 
wrote Traite de V Inspiration des livres sacrez du jV. T. 
(Amst. 1695, 8vo) : — Entrctiens sur la correspondance 
fraternelle de VEglise anglicane avec les autres Eglises 
reformers (Hague, 1708, 12m o) : — Relation de la So- 
ciety etablie pour la propagation de l' Evangile dans les 
pays etrangers , avec trois sermons (Rotterd. 1708) : — 
Nouveaux Me moires pour servir a Vhistoire des trois 
Camisards ou Von voit les declarations de M. le colonel 
Cavalier (London, 1708, 8vo) : — La Pratique de V IIu- 
milite (Amst. 1710, 12mo): — Charitas Anglicana (about 
1712): — Le Devoir du chritien convalescent, en quatre 
sermons sur le Psa. cxri, 8, 9, et les quatres sentiments du 
roi Ezechias sur sa maladie , sa convalescence et sur sa 
chute apres sa convalescence (Hague, 1713, 8vo); — Ser- 
in ms sur divers textes (Amsterdam, 1715, 8vo). See 
Vie de Claude Grostete (prefixed to his Sermons sur di- 
vers textes')', Haag, La France Protestante ; Hocfer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxii, 190. 

Grosvenor, Benjamin, D.D.,an eminent Dissent- 
ing minister, was born in London Jan. 1, 1675, and ed- 
ucated at the academy at Attercliffe, Yorkshire. Mr. 
Grosvenor entered upon his public ministry in the 
year 1699 as a Baptist. Soon after this he was chosen 
to succeed Mr. Slater as pastor of the Presbyterian 
congregation in Crosby Square. To this charge he was 
ordained July 11, 1701. His popularity as a preacher, 
his solid judgment, added to a lively imagination, his 
graceful elocution, and fervent devotion, occasioned 
his being appointed to take a part in several impor- 
tant lectures which were then carrying on in the me- 
tropolis. In 1730 the University of Edinburgh pre- 
sented him with the degree of D.D. He continued at 
Crosby Square till the year 1719, when age compelled 
him to relinquish his pastoral office. He died October 
27, 1758. A catalogue of his published pieces, chiefly 
occasional sermons, amounting to about thirty in num- 
ber, may be found in Wilson, History of Dissenting 
Churches. A volume of his Sermons , with a Memoir 
by J. Davies, was published in 1808 (Newport, 8vo). — 
Jones, Christian Biography ; Skeats, Free Churches of 
England . 

Grotius, Hugo (Dutch name De Groot), one of 
the most illustrious names in literature, polities, and 
theology. He was born at Delft April 10,1583, and 
in his boyhood gave signs of extraordinary ability. 
At eleven ho was sent to the University of Leyden, 
where he remained three years, devoting himself es- 
pecially to theology, law, and mathematics. In 1597 
he maintained two theses on philosophy, and wrote in 
praise of Ilenri IV, in Latin, a poem entitled Trium- 
phus Gallicus, which he dedicated to M. de Buzenval, 
the French ambassador in Holland. In 1598 he ac- 
companied a Dutch embassy to Paris, where he was 
introduced to the king, who gave him a brilliant re- 
ception. On his return home, 1599, he entered on the 
practice of law, but devoted himself also to literature. 
Each year was marked by a new book, or by a new 


I edition of some important work from his hand. In 
1607 he married Mary of Keigersberg, a lady of excel- 
lent family, and of high moral and intellectual quali- 
ties. In 1609 he published his celebrated treatise Mare 
Liberum, his first essay in treating the law of nations. 
Appointed pensioner of Rotterdam in T613, he foresaw 
the difficulties in which the country would soon be- 
come involved^and only accepted office on condition 
that it should be made permanent. He thus obtained 
the right of entering the States-general, where he was 
thrown into close relations with Barno veldt the elder, 
with whom he formed a lasting friendship. In 1615 
he was sent to represent Holland in a conference held 
in England on the subject of the Greenland fisheries. 
During his stay in England, Grotius had several con- 
ferences with Casaubon on the means of uniting the 
Roman Catholics and the Protestants, a problem to 
which he devoted a great deal of thought and labor 
throughout his life. After his return to Holland he 
took an active part in the religious discussions which 
were soon to divide the country, and in which he was 
always found on the side of freedom. He had at all 
times favored the views of Arminius, whose eulogy he 
published in 1609. Though not then, as he afterwards 
became, a skilled theologian, he was especially attract- 
ed by the doctrine of Arminius, and the predilection 
was afterwards strengthened by study and reflection. 
And, indeed, the Arminian doctrine, which, discarding 
the Calvinistic dogma of absolute predestination, teach- 
es that man is free to accept or to refuse grace, could 
not fail to suit a mind such as that of Grotius. It w r as 
held by the majority of the Dutch states ; and when 
Gomar (q. v.) and his party attempted to obtain the' 
proscription of the Arinin inns, the states did their ut- 
most to prevent it, and enjoined on both parties to tol- 
erate each other. The Gomarists then incited the peo- 
ple to disobey the states ; revolts took place in various 
towns, and some Arminian ministers were driven out 
of their churches. Grotius, who had previously helped 
his friend Uytenbogaert with his advice when framing 
the Acta Remonstrantium, in which the Arminian prin- 
ciples arc laid out, framed, together with Barneveldt, a 
new edict of toleration which was voted by the states. 
But fresh disturbances occurred every day, and the 
states, by a decree dated Aug. 4,1617, gave to the town 
magistrates the power of raising troops to put down 
insurgents. This decree was passed without the par- 
l tieipation of the stadtholder Maurice of Nassau, who 
had for a long time been seeking occasion to break 
with Barneveldt and the Republican party. He there- 
fore availed himself of the opportunity offered him by 
this decree, which, lie asserted, disregarded his rights 
as captain general. He at once sided with the Go- 
marists, approved all their plans, and forbade the sol- 
diers to obey the civil authorities. Shortly before 
these events, Grotius had been sent to conciliate the 
authorities of Amsterdam, who were opposed to the 
Arminians. His failure in this mission, with the in- 
creasing troubles and perils of the country, caused him 
an illness. During the disturbances, he wrote several 
works in defence of his party, in which, in order to 
justify the measures taken by the Dutch States, he at- 
tempted to prove that the ‘state has the right to regu- 
late all that relates to the discipline and even the 
dogmas of the Church. He also applied himself to 
show that the Arminian doctrine was upheld by the 
fathers and the councils. The Gomarists, beaten in 
argument, employed violence to overcome their adver- 
saries. In 1618, Maurice, backed by the States, un- 
dertook to coerce the towns, which, on the ground of 
the sovereignty guaranteed to them by the constitu- 
tion, had disregarded as illegal the order of the prince 
forbidding their raising troops. Holland was invaded 
by the troops of the stadtholder, who gave free vent 
to his anger. Assembling eight members of the States, 
he made them decree the arrest of Barneveldt, Grotius, 
and Hogenheets, under the accusation of being u ene* 


GROTIUS 


1018 


GROTIUS 


mios of their country for having attempted to resist at 
Ctrucht the army of the prince.” The magistrates of 
Rotterdam and of some other cities of Holland protest- 
ed against this open violation of their rights, hut were 
deposed. The Synod of Hurt, which the Gomarists, 
sure of having the majority of the clergy on their side, 
had for a long time demanded, in order to obtain a con- 
demnation of the doctrines of their adversaries, was 
then assembled. Sec Dokt. In eonsequenee of the 
decisions of Dort, some of the Arminian ministers were 
exiled, others put in prison. See Akmixianism. The 
Gomarists, with the partisans of Maurice, commenced 
in Nov. 1618, the trial of the three prisoners. Twenty- 
six commissioners, chosen from their avowed enemies, 
were appointed to judge them. After having, under 
appearance of legality, murdered Barncveldt in spite 
of the remonstrances of Du Maurier, ambassador of 
France, and a friend of Grotius, the}’’ began the trial 
of the latter. He declined to recognise their compe- 
tence, claiming that he could only be judged by the 
States of Holland. His remonstrances were of no 
avail ; five hours’ time and one sheet of paper were all 
the facilities afforded him for his defense. “ He was 
condemned on the 18th of May, 1619, to perpetual im- 
prisonment, and his property^ confiscated. Pursuant 
to this sentence, he was conveyed on the 6th of Juno 
in the same year to the fortress of Loevestein, situated 
at the extremity of an island formed by the Maas and 
the Waal. His wife was allowed to share her hus- 
band’s imprisonment, but Grotins’s father was refused 
permission to see his son. During the imprisonment 
of Grotius, study became liis consolation and the busi- 
• ness of his life. In several of his letters addressed 
from Loevestein to Vossius, he gives an account of his 
studies, informing him that he was occupied with law 
and moral philosophy. He devoted his Sundays to 
reading works on religious subjects, and he employed 
in the same way the time which remained after his or- 
dinary labors were over. He wrote during his impris- 
onment his treatise on the truth of the Christian relig- 
ion, in Dutch verse (which he subsequently translated 
into Latin prose, under the title De Veritate Religionis 
Christianas) ; translated the ‘ Phoenissae’ of Euripides 
into Latin verse, wrote the institutions of the laws of 
Holland in Dutch, and drew up for his daughter Cor- 
nelia a kind of catechism in 185 questions and answers, 
written in Flemish verse. After eighteen months’ con- 
finement, Grotius was at last released by the ingenuity 
of his wife, who had obtained permission to go out of 
the prison twice a week, lie constantly received 
books, which were brought in and taken out in a large 
chest together with his linen. For some time this 
chest was strictly examined by the guards, but find- 
ing only books and foul linen, they at last grew tired 
of the seareh, and gave it up. Grotins’s wife, having 
observed this, persuaded her husband to get into the 
chest, which he did, and in this manner escaped from 
the fortress on the 21st of March, 1621. He made his 
way through Antwerp to France, where his wife, who 
had been detained for about a fortnight in prison, join- 
ed him a few months afterwards. Louis XIII received 
Grotius very favorably, and granted him a pension of 
3000 livres, but it was paid with great irregularity. 
He was harslily 1 - treated by the Protestant ministers of 
Charenton, who, having assented to the doctrines of 
the Synod of Dort, refused to admit Grotius into their 
communion, and he was obliged to have divine service 
performed at home. At Paris (1622) lie published his 
Apologeticum (often reprinted), which was prohibited in 
Holland under severe penalties. Having spent a year 
at Paris, he retired to a country-seat of the president 
De Mcsmes, near Scnlis, where he spent the spring 
and summer of 1623. It was in that retreat that he 
commenced his W’ork De Jure Belli et Pacts , which was 
published in the next year. „ During his residence in 
I ranee he was constantly annoyed with importunities | 
to pass over to the Roman Catholic religion. Put, 


though he was tired of the country, and received invi- 
tations from the duke of Holstein and the king of 
Denmark, he declined them. Gustavus Adolphus also 
made him offers, which, after his death, were repeated 
by Oxenstiern in the name of queen Christina. In 
the mean time the stadtholder Maurice died, and his 
successor seeming less hostile to Grotius, he w'as in- 
duced by^ the entreaties of his Dutch friends to venture 
to return. He arrived at Rotterdam in September, 
1631, and the news of his return excited a great sensa- 
tion throughout all Holland. But, in spite of all the 
efforts of his friends, he was again obliged to leave the 
country, and went (1632) to Hamburg, where he lived 
till 1634, when he joined the chancellor Oxenstiern at 
Frankfort-on-the-Main, who appointed him councillor 
to the queen of Sweden, and her ambassador at the 
court of France. The object of the embassy u r as to 
obtain the assistance of France against the emperor. 
Grotius arrived at Paris in March, 1635 ; and although 
he had many difficulties to encounter from Richelieu, 
and aftenvards from Mazarin, he maintained the rights 
and promoted the interests of his adopted sovereign 
with great firmness. He continued in his post till 
1644, when he w r as recalled at his own request. Hav- 
ing obtained a passport through Holland, he embarked 
on his return at Dieppe, and on his landing at Amster- 
dam (1645) was received with great distinction, and 
entertained at the public expense. From Amsterdam 
he proceeded by Hamburg and Liibeck to Stockholm, 
where he was received in the most flattering manner 
by the queen. Grotius, however, was not pleased with 
the learned flippancy of Christina’s court, and resolved 
on quitting Sweden. The climate, also, did not agree 
with him. The queen, having in vain tried to retain 
him in her service, made him a present of a large sum 
of money, and of some costly objects; she also gave 
him a vessel, in which he embarked for Liibeck on the 
12th of August; but a violent storm, by which his ship 
was tossed about during three days, obliged him to 
land on the 17th in Pomerania, about 15 leagues from 
Dantzig, w hence he proceeded towards Lubeck. He 
arrived at Rostock on the 26th, very ill from the fa- 
tigues of the journey, and from exposure to w ind and 
rain in an open carriage ; he (lied on the 28th of Au- 
gust, 1645, in the sixtv-third year of his age. His last 
moments were spent in religious preparation, and he 
died expressing the sentiments of a true Christian. 
His body w r as carried to Delft and deposited in the 
grave of his ancestors, where a monument w r as erected 
to him in 1781” ( English Cyclopaedia). 

Of the many claims on posterity of this distinguish- 
ed man, w r e have only' to consider those vhieh relate to 
theology. Grotius applied himself to various branch- 
es of theology. We notice, first, his exegetical w'rit- 
ings. His “Annotations on the 0. and N. T.” (A«- 
notat. in libi'os evangeliorum et varia loca S. Script tt- 
rce [Amst. 1641]), Annotat. in Epist. ad Philemonern (ib. 
1642, 8vo ; 1646, 8vo), Annot. in vet. Test. (Paris, 1664, 
3 vols. fol., with Vogel’s and Doderlein’s additions, 
Hal. 1775-1776, 3 vols. 4to), Annot. in N. T. (Par. 1644, 
2 vols., often reprinted ; late ed. Groning. 1827-1829, 7 
vols. Svo) remained for a long time unknown almost to 
all except Arminian divines, and some Calvinists even 
spoke of them as dangerous works ; for instance, A hr. 
Calov in Bill. V. et N. T. illnstrat. The chief cause of 
the present popularity of Grotius’s exegesis is its purely 
philological and historical character. In this respect 
Grotius may be considered as the forerunner of Ernesti. 
Valuable, however, as these writings are in this re- 
spect, they have many defects. As to form they are 
mere comments (as is indicated by the title Annota - 
tiones ), and do not constitute a complete exposition of 
biblical doctrine. Grotius fails to get at the connec- 
tion of the thought in his elucidations, and often ap- 
proaches to a rationalistic mode of treating Scripture. 
It was well enough in Grotius to compile classical par- 
allels to the maxims given by Jesus in the Sermon on 


GROTIUS 


1019 


GROTIUS 


the Mount, but this should only have been tlie prepara- 
tory step to a full elucidation of the points wherein the 
morality of Christ differs from that of antiquity. Thus, 
also, it was quite correct in the elucidation of the O.-T. 
prophecies to reject the practice of an arbitrary typol- 
ogy of separate passages taken without regard to their 
original historical connection. But Grotius went to- 
wards the other extreme, and gave at least a show of 
ground for the remark that “ Coccejus found Christ 
everywhere in the 0. T., while Grotius found him no- 
where.” On Grotius’s merits as an interpreter, see 
Segaar, Oratio de Ilugone Grotio, illustri humanorum et 
divinorum JV. T. scriptorum interprete (Ultraj. 1785, 
Svo) ; Meier, Gesck. d. Schrifterkldrung (iii, p. 434 sq.). 
Ilis canon for the interpretation of the prophecies of the 
O. T. is contained in his exposition of the ivet 7r\j/pw3j7 
in the Annotations on Matt, i, 22, which is worthy of 
being studied. 

In the field of Apologetics Grotius achieved a great 
and enduring success by the publication of his treatise 
De veritate religionis chnstiame (1G27 ; often reprinted). 
The best editions are those of Clericus (1700, 1717, 1724, 
8vo) and of J.C. Kocher (Jena, 1727, Svo; Halle, 1734- 
39, 3 vols. 8vo). It was translated into German by 
Ilohl (Chemnitz, 1768, etc.) ; French, by Le Jeune 
(1724), Goujet (1724) ; English, by Patrick (1667), by 
Clarke (1793), by Middleton (Lond. 1849, 12mo); Ar- 
abic, by Pocock (1660), etc.; and even into Chinese 
and Malay. The first plan of it was drawn up by 
Grotius in 1622 while a prisoner at Loevcstein. The 
original object of this prison work, which was written 
in verse, was to furnish seafaring men, who should 
come in contact with the heathen, arguments in de- 
fense of their faith. But when translated into Latin 
prose it found its way into the highest circles of edu- 
cated men, and was, until very recently, a standard 
text-book on the Evidences of Christianity. In this 
work Grotius may be said to have erected apologetics 
into a science, and thus rendered immense service, even 
though his treatment of the subject does not meet all 
the wants of the present age. It is divided into six 
books, of which the first treats of the existence and 
attributes of God ; the second, of the excellence of the 
doctrine and ethics of Christianity; the third, of the 
authenticity of the books of the New Testament; the 
last three, of objections supposed to be made on the 
part of pagans, Mohammedans, and Jews. 

In Doctrinal Theology Grotius accepted the Arminian 
system as regards the doctrine of predestination. He 
pronounced clearly for the universality of divine grace, 
without, however, falling into Pelagianism, an accusa- 
tion often brought against him, but which he vigor- 
ously repelled. See his Conciliatio Dissklentium de re 
Predestinaria et gratia opinionum (1613), and his Dis- 
quidtio an relagiana sint ea dogmata qum nunc sub eo 
nomine traduntur. Both treatises are given in his 
Opera Theologica , vol. iii. He also refuted in his 
Christology the accusation of inclining to Socinianisin 
in his views of the doctrine of redemption. He de- 
fended the doctrine of the expiatory nature of the 
death of Christ against the Socinians in his Defensio 
fidei catholicce de satifactione Christi adversus F. Soci- 
num (Leyden, 1617 ; often reprinted). The Socinians 
answered in the person of Crell by the Responsio ad 
Librum Grotii de Satisfictione , which was refuted by 
Stillingfleet, etc. But the orthodox, on the other 
hand, attacked Grotius on account of his theory of the 
atonement; and it is certainly true that he differs as 
well from the theory of satisfaction of Anselm as from 
the orthodox system both -of the Lutheran and Ile- 
formed churches. In place of a real satisfaction ( [sat - 
if actio), Grotius substitutes a solutio on the part of 
God for the sake of Christ; he saw in the death of 
Christ more a substitutory than a satisfactory act; it 
was a penal example , by which, on the one hand, the 
majesty of God’s law was vindicated, and, on the 
other, his horror of the sin of the world wa6 exempli- 


fied in a most striking manner. Baur ( Yersohnungs* 
lehre) gives a clear, and, in the main, fair account of 
the Grotian theory of atonement, from a translation 
of part of which, by the Rev. L. Swain, in the Biblio- 
theca Sacra for April, 1852, we extract the following: 
“The fundamental error of the Socinian view was 
found by Grotius to be this : that Socinus regarded 
God in the work of redemption as holding the place 
merely of a creditor, or master, whose simple will was 
a sufficient discharge from the existing obligation. 
But, as we have in the subject hefore us to deal with 
punishment and the remission of punishment, God can- 
not be looked upon as a creditor, or an injured party, 
since the act of inflicting punishment does not belong 
to an injured party as such. The right to punish is 
not one of the rights of an absolute master or of a cred- 
itor, these being merely personal in their character ; it 
is the right of a ruler only. Hence God must be con- 
sidered as a ruler, and the right to punish belongs to 
the ruler as such, since it exists, not for the punisher’s 
sake, but for the commonwealth, to maintain its order, 
and to promote the public good. The act of atone- 
ment itself is defined in general as a judicial act, in 
accordance with which one person is punished in order 
that another may be freed from punishment, or as an 
act of dispensation, by which the binding force of an 
existing law is suspended in respect to certain persons 
or things. The first question to be asked, therefore, 
is, whether such a dispensation or relaxing is possible 
in respect to the law of punishment. Grotius does 
not hesitate to answer this question in the affirmative, 
on the ground that all positive laws are relaxable. 
The threat of punishment in Gen. ii, 17, contains in it-' 
self, therefore, the implied right to dispense with the 
infliction of that punishment, and that, too, without 
supposing any essential change in God himself, since 
a law in relation to God and the divine will is not 
something having an internal force and authority of 
its own (niclits Innercs), but is merely an operation or 
effect of the divine will. The objection that none but 
the guilt} r person himself can receive the punishment 
which is due to his crime is answered by the distinc- 
tion that although every sinner, as such, does, in ac- 
cordance with the very idea of sin, deserve punish- 
ment, still it is not a matter of absolute necessity that 
this punishment should be actually inflicted. As, 
therefore, the remission of punishment is a thing which 
is not in its own nature impossible, it must be left to 
the circumstances of each particular case to decide how 
far such remission shall really be admitted. If the 
authority of law is not to be dangerously weakened, it 
should be admitted only in cases of the greatest exi- 
gency. Such a case clearly is that which is offered in 
the very instance which we are now contemplating, 
where, by the actual infliction of the punishment, the 
entire race of man becomes devoted to deatli ; and as, 
on the one side, the possibility of the remission of pun- 
ishment cannot be denied, so, on the other, it cannot 
be shown to be absolutely unjust that one person 
should be punished for another’s sin. The essential 
thing in punishment is that it should be inflicted in 
consequence of sin, not that it should be inflicted upon 
the person who committed the sin. If, now, it admits 
of no doubt that a superior may properly inflict upon 
a subject, as the punishment of another’s sin, what- 
ever he might properly inflict upon him irrespectively 
of another’s sin, then may God, without incurring the 
charge of injustice, permit Christ to suffer and die for 
the sins of men. This course, then, being in itself a 
permissible one, the only question is why God actual- 
ly determined to adopt it. As the Scripture says that 
Christ suffered and died for our sins, we are to infer 
that God purposed not to forgive sins so numerous and 
so great without a striking penal example, in order to 
show his displeasure at sin by some act which should 
in strictest propriety be termed a penal act. And be- 
1 sides this inward reason, lying in the very nature of 


GROTIUS 


1020 


GROTIUS 


the Deity, and called in Scripture the wrath of God, 
there was the additional consideration that the less sin 
is punished the more lightly it will be regarded. Pru- 
dence itself, therefore, must lead the Deity to exact 
the punishment, especially where such punishment has 
been expressly threatened beforehand. Thus, in the 
penal example furnished by the death of Christ, there 
is exhibited at once the divine grace and the divine 
severity, the hatred of God against sin and his care for 
the maintenance of the law. And this is the mode of 
relaxing the laws which jurists themselves pronounce 
the best, viz. by commutation or compensation ; be- 
cause thereby the least injury is done to the authority 
of the law, and the design with which the law was 
made is effectually secured, as when one who is charged 
with the delivery of a thing is free from his liability 
on paying its full value; for the same thing and the 
same value are terms very nearly related. Such a 
commutation may take place not only with respect to 
things, but also with respect to persons, where it can 
be done without injury to another. 

“In these few statements is contained the entire 
theory of Hugo Grotius. "What is essential to it lies 
in this main proposition : God neither would nor could 
forgive the sins of men without the setting up of a pe- 
nal example. This is done by the death of Christ. 
Hence the death of Christ is the necessary -condition 
of the forgiveness of sin, and what it always actu- 
ally presupposes. The theorj r , therefore, hangs upon 
the idea of a penal example and of its presupposed 
necessity, and the question for us now to consider is 
how, by means of that idea, it stands related, on the 
one hand, to the theory of the Church which it would 
defend, and, on the other, to the Socinian theory which 
it would confute. 

“As to its relation to the satisfaction-theory held 
by the Church, it will be seen at once that it asserts 
the necessity of the death of Christ in order to the for- 
giveness of sin, in a sense wholly different from that 
which the Church intends. If the death of Christ is 
necessary only as a penal example, then its necessity 
is grounded, not in the very nature of God himself, 
not in the idea of absolute justice, by which sin, guilt, 
and punishment are inseparably bound together, but 
merely in that outward relation which God holds to 
men as a ruler. The real object of consideration is 
not past sin, but future. The guilt of past sin may be 
removed immediately, for God has the absolute right 
to remit punishment; and a penal example is necessa- 
ry only for the purpose of maintaining the honor of 
the law, and guarding against sin in time to come. 
The connection, therefore, between sin and punishment 
is not an inherent, internal connection, founded in the 
very nature of sin ; the design of punishment is mere- 
ly to prevent sin ; or, in other words, it is connected 
"with sin only in consequence of a positive law ema- 
nating from God as the supreme Killer. Hence the 
final ground upon which Grotius goes back to prove 
the necessity of instituting a penal example is merely 
the penal sanction contained in Gen. ii, 17. The ad- 
vocates of the satisfaction-theory, indeed, go back to 
the same sentence, but only to remark in it a necessa- 
ry outflowing of the divine justice. Grotius, on the 
contrary, takes the absolute idea of divine justice en- 
tirely away; for if he affirms, in opposition to Socinus, 
that justice is an attribute which belongs of itself to 
the very nature of God, but at the same time asserts 
that the actual exercise of the attribute depends on 
the will of God, it is precisely the same as the asser- 
tion of Socinus himself, that penal justice is the effect 
of the divine will ; and if he further says that God 
does w hat he does not without a cause, still the ulti- 
mate ground is not God’s absolute nature, hut his ab- 
solute will, which is in itself equally competent to 
punish or not to punish. 

“ Here, then, is an important distinction between the 
theory of Grotius and that of the Church. The main 


point in the Church’s theory of satisfaction is that, if 
Christ had not made a strict and perfect satisfaction 
for men, they could not have been released from sin. 
Socinus objected to this that satisfaction and forgive- 
ness were contradictory ideas. This assertion Grotius, 
as the defender of the Church’s doctrine of satisfaction, 
could not admit. He therefore replied that satisfaction 
and forgiveness were not strictly simultaneous; that, 
according to the conditions established by God, the 
latter then first follows the former when a man by faith 
in Christ turns to God and prays him for the forgive- 
ness of bis sins. This distinction must certainly be 
made if the objection of Socinus is to he successfully 
met, and the two ideas are to be permitted to stand 
side by side. But Grotius could not stop here. If it 
is only a penal example that is furnished by the death 
of Christ, then the idea of satisfaction, strictly speak- 
ing, has no further relevancy. As, however, Grotius 
wished to retain this idea, he brought to his assistance 
a peculiar distinction which is made in law between the 
two ideas denoted respectively by the terms solutio and 
satisfaction If, said Grotius, the very thing which is 
owed be paid either by the debtor himself, or, which is 
in this case the same thing, by another in the debtor’s 
name, then the discharge of the debt takes place bv 
that very act ; but it is to be called a discharge, not a 
remission (remissio). Not so, however, when some- 
thing else is paid than the specific thing which was 
due. In this case there must be added, on the part of 
the creditor or ruler, an act of remission as a personal 
act; and it is this kind of payment, that may be either 
accepted or refused by the creditor, which is properly 
called, in the technical language of the law, satisfac* 
tion. While, therefore, it was the original design of 
Grotius, in all this, merely to prove, in opposition to 
Socinus, that the idea of satisfaction did not exclude 
that of remission, what he really did was to substitute 
in place of the common idea of satisfaction a totally 
different one; for the common idea of satisfaction rests 
essentially on the supposition that Christ has rendered 
precisely the same thing which men themselves were 
to have rendered. If, now, such a payment (solutio) 
be, as Grotius asserts, no remission (remissio), but only 
a discharge (libera tio), then it must be conceded to So- 
cinus, which was the thing contested by Grotius, that 
the ideas of satisfaction and remission mutually con- 
tradict and exclude each other, or, in other words, that 
the satisfaction which was made by Christ does not 
deserve the name of satisfaction in the sense which the 
common theory of the Church connected with that ex- 
pression. But if Christ has not made satisfaction in 
this sense, if lie has not truly and perfectly rendered 
for men what they were to have rendered for them- 
selves, then the idea of satisfaction can be applied only 
so far as he has given to God something, whatever that 
something may be, in place of that which was to have 
been rendered by men themselves in their relation to 
God. This, then, is the precise meaning of the theory 
of Grotius, and the difference between it and the satis- 
faction-theory of the Church. The idea of satisfaction 
is let down from its full and real import to the idea of 
a mere rendering of something ; Christ has made sat- 
isfaction so far as he has fulfilled a condition, of what- 
ever kind 'it may he, upon which God has suspended 
the forgiveness of the sins of men — so far as he has 
given to God a something with reference to that end. 
This something is that penal example without the set- 
ting forth of which God could not have forgiven the 
sins of men.” 

Many of the w-ritings of Grotius are important in the 
sphere of Church History: such are, for instance, his 
Hist. Goihorum , Vandalomm ct Longobardoruni (1655); 
and liis A nnalcs ct hist, de rebus Belgicis ab obitu Philippi 
regis usque ad inducias anni 1609. lie also treated 
several questions of ecclesiastical jurisprudence in his 
De imperio snmmarum potestatum circa sacra ( Ojp . 
theol. iii, p. 201), in which he sides with Arminius in 


GROVE 


1021 


GROVE 


favor of the territorial system against the opinion of 
Gomar. 

The theological writings of Grotius arc collected un- 
der the title Opera omnia theologica (Loud. 1679, fol. 3 
vols.). The first vol. contains a Life of Grotius, with 
his Annot. in V. T. ; vol. ii contains the Amiot. in X. 
T.; vol. iii includes his miscellaneous theological writ- 
ings. There have been many lives of Grotius, none of 
them adequate except Brandt, Ilist. van het leven dcs 
Heeren Iluig de Groot (Amst. 1727, 2 vols. fob). See 
also Lehmann, Grotii 3 lanes ab iniquis obtrectationibus 
vindicati (Delft, 1727) ; Burigny, Vie de Grotius (Paris, 
1752, 2 vols. 8vo), translated into English (Loud. 1754, 
8vo) ; Butler, Life of Grotius (Lond. 1827, 8vo) ; Creu- 
zer, Luther und Grotius (Heidelb. 1S1G, 8vo); Cras, 
Laudatio II. Grotii (Amst. 1796, 8vo) ; Luden, II. Gro- 
tius nach seinen Schicksakn und Schriften danjestellt 
(Berlin, 180G, 8vo) ; Seegar, Orat. de Grotio (Utrecht, 
1785, 4to) ; Bayle, Dictionary , s. v. ; Herzog, Real-En- 
Mopddie, v, 395 sq. ; Nieeron, Memoires pour servir, 
vol. xix ; Schroekh, Kirchengeschichte, v, 216; Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biogr. Generate , xxii, 197 sq. ; Piper, Kalender , 
1867 ; Nichols, Calvinism and A rminianism , ii, 582-641 ; 
Shedd, Ilist. of Doctrines , ii, 347 sq. 

Grove, the representative in the A.V. in certain 
passages of two Heb. words. 

1. PP.'-lix (or asherah ' (from TCX, to be up- 

right). Selden was the first who endeavored to show 
that this word— which in the Sept, and Yulg. is gener- 
ally rendered grove , in which our authorized version 
has followed them — must in some places, for the sake 
of the sense, be taken to mean a wooden image of Ash- 
toreth {De Dus Syris , ii. 2). Not long after, Speneer 
made the same assertion 
{De Leg. Ilebneor. ii, 16). 

Yitringa then followed 
out the same argument 
in his note on Isa. xvii,8. 

Gesenius, at length, has 
treated the whole ques- 
tion so elaborately in his 
Thesaurus (p. 162) as to 
leave little to be desired, 
and has evinced that 
Asherah is a name , and 
also denotes an image 
of this goddess. Some 
of the arguments wdiieh 
support this partial, or, 
in Gesenius’s ease, total 
rejection of the signifi- 
cation grove for asherah 


scholars assume that Asherah is a name for Ashtoreth, 
and that it denotes more especially the relation of that 
goddess to the planet Venus, as the lesser star of good 
fortune. It appears, namely, to be an indisputable faet 
that both Baal and Ashtoreth, although their primary 
relation w r as to the sun and moon, came in process of 
time to be connected, in the religious conceptions of the 
Syro-Arabians, with the planets Jupiter and Venus, as 
the two stars of good fortune. See Meni. We may 
instance the connection between Artemis and Selene ; 
that between Juno and the planet Venus, mentioned in 
Creuzer, ii, 566 ; the faet that astro is also the name of 
the same planet in the religious books of the Tsalians 
(Norberg’s Onomast. Cod. Nasarcri, p. 20). It is in ref- 
erence to this connection, too, that a star is so often 
found among the emblems with wdiieh Ashtoreth is 
represented on ancient coins. Lastly, while the word 
Asherah cannot, in the sense of grove, be legitimately 
deduced from the primitive or secondary signification 
of any Syro-Arabian root, as a name of the goddess of 
good fortune it admits of a derivation as natural in a 
philological point of view as it is appropriate in signi- 
fication. The verb 'YCJJ means to prosper ; and Ashe- 
rah is the feminine of an adjective signifying/brtarcate, 
happy. — Kitto, s. v. Ashtoreth. See Asherah. 

We must not omit to notice a probable connection 
between this symbol or image — whatever it w r as — and 
the sacred symbolic tree, the representation of which 
oeeurs so frequently on Assyrian sculptures, and is 
shown in the subjoined wmodeut. The connection is 
ingeniously maintained by Mr. Fergusson in his Nine- 
veh and Persepolis restored (p. 299-304), to which th3 
reader is referred. — Smith, s. v. 



Sacred Symbolic Tree of the Assyrians. From Lord Aberdeen’s Black Stone. 


are briefly as follows: It is argued that it almost al- I 2. VwX, e's4e/(Sept. ctpovpa, Yulg. nemus). Thefirst 
ways occurs with words which denote idols and statues * notice of this tree is in Gen. xxi, 33, “And Abraham 
of idols; that the verbs which are employed to express planted a grove {eshel) in Beersheba, and called there 
the making an Asherah are incompatible with the idea ! on the name of the Lord.” The second passage where 
of a grove, as they are such as to build , to shape , to erect \ it occurs is 1 Sam. xxii, 6 : “ Now Saul abode in Gib- 
(except in one passage, where, however, Gesenius still e ah under a tree {eshel) in Eaniah, having his spear in 
maintains that the verb there used means to erect); bi s hand, and all his servants were standing about 
that the words used to denote the destruction of an him.” Under such a tree also he and his sons w'ere 
Asherah are those of breaking to jiicces, subverting ; that buried, for in the only other notice of this v’ord it is 
the image of Asherah is placed in theTemple # (2 Kings 8a j (i Sam. xxxi, 13), “And they took their bones, 
xxi, 7); and that Asherah is coupled with Baal in pre- ( a nd buried them under a tree {eshel) at Jabesh, and 
isely the same w r ay as Ashtoreth is (comp. Judg. ii, 13 ; fasted seven days. In the parallel passage of 1 Chron. 


x, 6; 1 Kings xviii, 19; 2 Kings xxiii, 4; and partic- 
ularly Judg. iii, 7, and ii, 13, where the plural form- of 
both words is explained ns of itself denoting images of 
this goddess ; see also 2 Chron. xxxiii, 19; xxxiv, 3, 4). 
Besides, Selden objects that the signification grove is 
even incongruous in 2 Kings xvii, 10, where w r e read 
of “ setting up groves under every green tree.” More- 
over, the Sept, has rendered Asherah by Astarte in 2 
Chron. xv, 16 (and the Vulg. has done the same in Judg. 
iii, 7), and, conversely, has rendered Ashtaroth by groves 
in 1 Sam. vii, 3. See Asiitouetii; High-place. 

On the strength of these arguments most modern 


x, 12, the word alah is employed, which perhaps signi- 
fies a terebinth tree , but is translated “oak” in the A.V. 

Celsius {Ilierobot. i, 535) maintains that eshel lias al- 
ways a general, and not a specific signification, and 
that it is properly translated tree. This, as stated by 
Bosenmiiller, lias been satisfactorily refuted by Mi- 
ehaelis in his Supjdem. p. 134. In Boyle’s Illustrated 
Ilimal. Dot. p. 214, it is stated, “ The Arabic name asul 
or atul is applied to f liras (an arboreous species of tam- 
arisk) in India, as to T.orientaUs in Arabia and Egypt.” 
So in the Ulfaz Udivieh , translated by Mr. Gladwin, we 
have at No. 36 ussel, the tamarisk bush, with 'jhaou as 


GROVE 


1022 


GROVE 


the Hindec, and guz as the Persian synonym. The 
tamarisk and its products were highly valued hy the 
Arabs for their medicinal properties, and are described 
in several places under different names in Avicenna. 
If we refer to travellers in Eastern countries, we shall 
find that most of them mention the athul. Thus Pros- 
per Alpiuus (De Plantis sEgypti, c. ix, De Tamarisco 
atle vocata) gives a figure which sufficiently shows that 
it must grow to the size of a large tree, and says that 
he had heard of its attaining, in another place, to the 
size of a large oak; that its wood was employed for 
making a variety of vessels, and its charcoal used 
throughout Egypt and Arabia; and that different parts 
of it were employed in medicines. So Forskal, who 
calls the species Tamarlscus orientate , gives ail as its 



Arabic name, and identifies it with eshel. So Belon 
( Observ . ii, 28). In Arabia Burckhardt found the tree 
called asul in the neighborhood of Medina, and ob- 
serves that the Arabs cultivated it on account of the 
hardness of its wood. If we endeavor to trace a spe- 
cies of tamarisk in Syria, we shall find some difficulty 
from the want of precision in the information supplied by 
travellers on subjects of Natural History. Bnt a French 
naturalist, M. Bove, w'lio travelled from Cairo to Mount 
Sinai, and from thence into Syria, has given ample 
proofs of the existence of species of tamarisk in these 
regions. A minute description of the tree under its 
Arabic name is given by I. E. Faber, in Fab . and Reishii 
Opusc. med. ex mon. Ar. p. 137. It is very remarkable 
that the only tree which is found growing among the 
ruins of Babylon is a tamarisk. “The one in ques- 
tion is in appearance like the weeping-willow, but the 
trunk is hollow through age, and partly shattered. 
The Arabs venerate it as sacred, in consequence of the 
calif Ali having reposed under its shade after the bat- 
tle of Ilillah” (Rosenmiiller, Bibl. Geog. ii, p. 2G, from 
Ker Porter; comp. Ainsworth’s Researches , p. 125). 
From the characteristics of the tamarisk-tree of the 
East, it certainly appears as likely as any to have been 
planted in Beershcba by Abraham, because it is one of 
the few trees which will flourish and grow' to a great 
size even in the arid desert. Besides the advantage 
of affording shade in a hot country, it is also esteemed 
on account of the excellence of its wood, which is con- 
verted into charcoal. It is no less valuable on account 
of the galls with which its branches are often loaded, 
and which are nearly as astringent as oak-galls. — Kit- 
to, s. v. See Tamarisk. 

1 3. It is now generally recognised (see Gesen. Thes. 

50 b ; Stanley, S. and R. § 7G,"3 ; p. 142 note, 220 note) 
that the word Elon. which is uniformly rendered 
by the A. V. “plain,” signifies a grove or plantation. 


Such were the Elon of Mamre (Gen. xiii, 18; xiv, 13; 
xviii, 1) ; of Moreh (Gen. xii, G ; Dent, xi, 30 ; of Zaa- 
naim (Josh, xix, 33); of the pillar (Judg. ix, G) ; of 
Meonenim (Judg. ix, 37) ; and of Tabor (1 Sam. x, 3). 
In all these cases the Sept, has £pvg or (idXavot ; ; the 
Vulgate — which the A. V. probably followed — Yallis or 
Conv alte ; in the last three, however, Quercus . See 
Elon. 

In the religions of the ancient heathen world groves 
play a prominent part. In old times altars only were 
erected to the gods. It was thought wrong to shut 
up the gods w ithin walls, and hence, as Pliny express- 
ly tells us (//. N. xii, 2), trees were the first temples 
(Tacit. Germ. 9 ; Lucian, de Sacrijic. 10; see Carpzov, 
App. Crit. p. 332), and from the earliest times groves 
are mentioned in connection with religions worship 
(Gen. xii, G, 7 ; xiii, 18 ; Dent, xi, 30 ; A. V. “ plain 
see above). Their high antiquity, refreshing shade, 
solemn silence, and awe-inspiring solitude, as well as 
the striking illustration they afford of natural life, 
marked them out as the fit localities, or even the ac- 
tual objects of worship (“Lucos et in iis silentia ipsa 
adoramus,” Pliny, xii, 1; “Seeretum luci . . . et ad- 
miratio umbrae tidem tibi numinis facit,” Senee. Ep. 
xii ; “ Quo posses viso dicere Numen habet,” Ovid, 
Fast, iii, 295; “ Sacra nemus accubet umbra,” Virgil, 
Georg, iii, 334 ; comp. Ovid, J/e/.viii, 743 ; seeEzek.vi, 
13 ; Isa. Ivii, 5 ; Hos. iv, 13). This last passage hints at 
another and darker reason why groves w'ere opportune 
for the degraded services of idolatry; their shadow hid 
the atrocities and obscenities of heathen worship. The 
groves were generally found connected w T ith temples, 
and often had the right of affording an asylum (Tacit. 
Germ. 9, 40 ; Herod, ii, 138 ; Virgil, sEn. i, 441 ; ii, 512; 
Sil. Ital. i, 81). Some have supposed that even the 
Jewish Temple had a rsptvoc planted with palm, and 
cedar (Psa. xcii, 12, 13), and olive (Psa. Iii, 8), as the 
mosque which stands on its site now has. This is 
more than doubtful ; but we know that a celebrated 
oak stood by the sanctuary at Sheehem (Josh, xxiv, 
2G ; Judg. ix, G ; Stanley, Sinai and Pal. p. 142). AVe 
find repeated mention of groves consecrated with deep 
superstition to particular gods (Livy, vii, 25; xxiv, 3; 
xxxv, 51 ; Tacit. A nn. ii, 12, 51, etc. ; iv, 73, etc.). For 
this reason they were stringently forbidden to the Jews 
(Exod. xxxiv, 13; Jer. xvii, 2; Ezek. xx, 28), and 
Maimonides even says that it is forbidden to sit under 
the shade of any green tree where an idol-statue was 
(Fabric. Bibl. A ntiq. p. 290). Yet we find abundant 
indications that the Hebrews felt the influence of 
groves on the mind (“the spirit in the w’oods,” AVords- 
wmrth), and therefore selected them for solemn pur- 
poses, such as great national meetings (Judg. ix, G, 
37) and the burial of the dead (Gen. xxxv, 8 ; 1 Sam. 
xxxi, 14). Those connected with patriarchal history 
w'ere peculiarly liable to superstitious reverence (Amos 
v, 5; viii, 13); and we find that the groves of Mamre 
%vere long a place of worship (Sozomen, II. E. ii, 4 ; 
Euseb. 1 ’ it . Const, p. 81 ; Reland, Palcest. p. 714). There 
are in Scripture man}' memorable trees; e.g. Allon- 
baebuth (Gen. xxxv, 8), the tamarisk (see above) in 
Gibeah (1 Sam. xxii,6),the terebinth in Sheehem (Josh. 

| xxiv, 2G, under w-hicli the law was set up), the palm- 
tree of Deborah (Judg. iv, 5), the terebinth of enchant- 
ments (Judg. ix,37), the terebinth of wanderers (Judg. 
iv, 11), and others (1 Sam. xiv, 2 ; x, 3; sometimes 
“plain” in A. AT, ATdg. “ convallis”). 

This observation of particular trees w'as among the 
heathen extended to a regular worship of them. “Tree- 
worship may be traced from the interior of Africa not 
only into Egypt and Arabia, but also onward uninter- 
ruptedly into Palestine and Syria, Assyria, Persia, In- 
dia, Thibet, Siam, the Philippine Islands, China, Japan, 

: and Siberia; also westward into Asia Minor, Greece, 
Italy, and other countries; and in most of the conn- 
i tries here named it obtains in the present day, com- 
bined as it has been in other parts with various forms 


GROVE 


1023 


GRYNjEUS 


of idolatry” (Poole, Gen. of Earth and Man, p. 139). 
“The worship of trees even goes back among the lrau- 
nians to the rules of Horn, called in the Zend-Avesta 
the promulgator of the old law. We know from He- 
rodotus the delight which Xerxes took in the great 
plane-tree in Lydia, in which he bestowed golden or- 
naments, and appointed for it a sentinel in the person 
of one of the ‘immortal Ten Thousand.’ The early 
veneration of trees was associated, by the moist and re- 
freshing canopy of foliage, with that of sacred fount- 
ains. In similar connection with the early worship 
of nature were among the Hellenic nations the fame 
of the great palm-tree of Delos, and of an aged pla- 
tanus in Arcadia. The Buddhists of Ceylon venerate 
the colossal Indian fig-tree of Anurah-depura. ... As 
single trees thus became objects of veneration from the 
beauty of their form, so did also groups of trees, under 
the name of ‘groves of gods.’ Pansanias (i, 21, § 9) 
is full of the praise of a grove belonging to the temple 
of Apollo at Grynion in /Eolis; and the grove of Co- 
lone is celebrated in the renowned chorus of Sophocles” 
(Humboldt, Cosmos , ii, 96, Eng. ed.). The custom of 
adorning trees “with jewels and mantles” was very 
ancient and universal (Herod, vii, 31 ; ^Elian, 1". H. ii, 
14; Theocr. id. xviii ; Ovid, Met. viii, 723, 745 ; Arnob. 
adv. Gentes, i, 39), and even still exists in the East. 

The oracular trees of antiquity are well known 
(Ilomer, II. xvi, 233; Od. v, 237; Soph. Track. 754; 
Virgil, Georg, ii, 16 ; Sil. Ital. iii, 11). Each god had 
some sacred tree (Virgil, Eel. vii, 61 sq.). The Etruri- 
ans are said to have worshipped a palm, and the Celts 
an oak (Max. Tyr. Dissert. 38, in Godwyn’s Mos. and 
Aar. ii, 4). On the Druidic veneration of oak-groves, 
see Pliny, II. N. xvi, 44 ; Tacit. Ann. xiv, 30. In the 
same way, according to the missionar} 1- Oldendorp, the 
negroes “have sacred groves, the abodes of a deity, 
which no negro ventures to enter except the priests” 
(Prichard, Nat. Hist, of Man, p. 525-539, 3d ed. ; Park's 
Travels , p. 65). So, too, the ancient Egyptians (Raw- 
linson’s Herod, ii, 298). Long after the introduction 
of Christianity it was found necessary to forbid all 
abuse of trees and groves to the purposes of supersti- 
tion (Harduin, Act. Condi, i, 988; see Orelli, ad Tac. 
Germ. 9). — Smith, s. v. See Pelinen, De arbor e non 
plantanda ad altare Dei (Lips. 1725) ; Dresler, De luds 
religioni gentil. destinatis (Lips. 1740) ; Lakemacher, 
Antiq. Greec. saerce, p. 138 sq. See Tree. 

Grove, Henry, a Presbyterian divine of distinc- 
tion, was born at Taunton, Somersetshire, Jan. 4, 1683. 
lie received his academical training under Mr. War- 
ren at Taunton, whose school was in excellent repute. 
At 22 he began to preach ; at 23 he succeeded Mr. War- 
ren as head of the Taunton Academy. At first he taught 
ethics, but in 1725 he began to teach theology also. He 
at the same time succeeded Mr. James in his pastoral 
charge at Fullwood, near Taunton, in which he contin- 
ued till his death. In 1730 he published The Evidence 
of our Saviour's Redemption considered, and the same 
year, Some Thoughts concerning the Proof of a Future 
State, from Reason. In 1732 he printed A Discourse 
concerning the Nature and Design of the Lord's Supper , 
where he set that institution in the same light as bish- 
op Hoadly. In 1734 he published, without his name, 
Wisdom the Fii'St Spying of Action in the Deity, which 
aras animadverted on by BalgU}\ In 1736 he publish- 
ed A Discourse on Saving Faith. He died February 27, 
1737-8. After his death came out by subscription his 
Posthumotis 1 1 T orks (1740, 4 vols. 8vo) ; also Sermons 
(Lond. 1742, 2 vols. 8vo): Works published in his life- 
time (Lond. 1747, 4 vols. 8vo) ; System of Moral Philos. 
(Loud. 1749, 2d ed. 2 vols. 8vo). See Amory, Life of 
Grove, prefixed to his Posthumous Works (1745, vol. i); 
Jones, Christian Biog. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. i, 1344. 

Gruber, Jacob, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Lancaster County, Ta., Feb. 3, 1778, of 
German Lutheran parents. He was converted at four- 


teen or fifteen ; entered the travelling ministry, in the 
Philadelphia Conference, in 1800 ; labored fifty years, 
chiefly in Pennsylvania and Maryland, with abundant 
usefulness, and died May 25, 1850. Mr. Gruber was 
“a singular and extraordinary man.” He was alike 
remarkable for “strength and originality of mind, en- 
ergy of character, depth of piety, prodigious labors, 
power of endurance, extensive usefulness, and simplic- 
ity and regularity of life.” His conversion was pow- 
erful, and, although driven from his home in youth for 
his religious course, he kept his faith. Through his 
long life his vigor and industry were untiring, and he 
never ceased labor for any four consecutive weeks until 
the 3'ear of his death. Although eccentric, and often 
rude in style, he was nevertheless a sound theologian 
and an able defender of Methodism. In the pulpit he 
was sometimes grand and overwhelming. “ lie spent 
thirt}'-two } r ears on circuits, seven in stations, and 
eleven as presiding elder. Many anecdotes are on 
record of his eccentric wit and sarcasm, and of his 
great control over men.” — Minutes of Conferences, iv, 
549; Wakeley, Heroes of Methodism, p. 407; Strickland, 
Life of Gruber (N. Y. 1860, 12mo). 

Gruner, Johann Friedrich, a German theologian 
and philologist, was born at Coburg in 1723. He stud- 
ied at the university of that city, and afterwards at 
Jena. In 1747 he became professor of Latin and of 
Roman archajology in Jena, afterwards professor of el- 
oquence at Coburg, and in 1764 professor of theology 
at Halle. He died March 29, 1778. His principal 
works, so far as the}" relate to theology, are, Miscel- 
lanea sacra (Jena, 1750): — De Odii Romanorum adver- 
sus Christianos Causis (Coburg, 1750) : — De Origine 
Episcoporum eorumque in Ecclesia prijpi tiva Jure (Halle, 

1764) : — Amceisung z. geistliehen Beredsamkeit (Halle, 

1765) : — Versuch eines pragmatischen Auszugs aus d. 
Kh'hengesch. d. Christen (Halle, 1766) : — Praktische Ein - 
leitungin d. Religion d. Heiligen Schrift (Halle, 1773) : — • 
Institutionum Theologice dogmaticce Libri tres (Halle, 
1777): — Observationum criticarum Libri ii (Jena, 1777). 
See Harlesius, Vitce Philologorum (i, 234 -243).— lloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxii, 253 ; Doering, Gel. Theol. 
Deutschlands. 

Grynaeus, Johann, a Swiss Protestant theolo- 
gian, was born at Leufelfingen (Basle) in 1705. He 
acquired great proficiency in theology and the Oriental 
languages, and was for seven years professor in the 
theological faculty of Basle. He died in that city April 
11, 1744. He wrote Opuscula Theol. miscell. (Basle, 
1746, 8vo), a learned and valuable work. — Iloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generale, xxii, 275. 

Grynaeus, Johann Jacob, D.D., a Swiss Protes- 
tant theologian, third son of Thomas Grynneus (q.v.), 
was born at Berne Oet. 1, 1540. He studied at Basle, 
was ordained deacon in 1559, and in 1565 succeeded 
his father as pastor. In 1577 be became professor of 
theology at Basle, and remained there until 1584,Uriien 
he removed to Heidelberg. In 1586 he returned to 
Basle, where he died head pastor ( ‘antistes ) of tfie city, 
Aug. 30, 1617 (Aug. 31, 1618, according to Michaud). 
He published Variorum Patrum Greecorum et Latino- 
rum Monnmenta orthodoxographa (Basle, 1569, 2 vols. 
fol.) : — Ecclesiastica Ilistoria Eusebii Pamphili, Ruf- 
fini, Socratis, Theodoreti, Sozomeni , Theodori , Evagrii , et 
Dorothei, etc. (Basle, 1571, 1588, 1611, fol.): — Epitome 
Sacrorum Bibliorum, pars 1 (Basle, 1577, 8vo): — Char - 
acter Christianonim, sen de Jidei, spei et charitatis doc - 
trina, etc. (Basle, 1578, 8vo) : — Synopsis Historice Ilom- 
inis, sen de prima hominis origine, ejusque corruption , 
reconciliation , etc. (Basle, 1576, 8vo) : — Chronologia 
brevis Ilistorice Evangelical (Basle, 1580) : — Scingraphia 
Sacree Theologi(P (Basle, 1577, 4to) : — Censura theologica 
de prima Antichristianorum errorum origine (Heidelb. 
3484): — Theoremata et Problemata theologica (Basle, 
1590, 3 vols.) : — De viris illustribus quorum opere Deus 
in reformandis ecclesiis usus est (1602); and a large 


GRYNAEUS 


1024 


GUARD 


number of essays and discourses. See Jo. Fabricius, 
II into ria Biblioihec . pt. vi, p. 418-421 ; Dan. Gerdes, 
Flonleg. Lib. rar. p, 153; Adami, Vita Theologorum Get- 
manorum ; Niceron, Memoires, xxxvii, 307-315 ; Uhse, 
Leben d. beruhmtesten Kirchen-Scribenten , p. 19G ; Hoe- 
fer, Nouv. Bivg. G inerale, xxii, 274 ; Herzog, Real-En- 
cyklop. v, 404 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographica , i, 1347 ; 
Middleton, Evangelical Biography. 

Grynaeus or Grunaeus, Simon, surnamed Ma- 
jor , a German Protestant theologian, was born atVeh- 
ringeu (Holienzollern) in 1493. He studied at Pfortz- 
lieim and Vienna, and early embraced the Reforma- 
tion. He taught Greek at Heidelberg from 1524 to 
1529. In 1534 he went to Tubingen, commissioned bj r 
duke Ulrich of Wiirtemberg to reform the churches of 
that place. In 153G be settled at 13asle, where be died 
of the plague Aug. 1, 1541. Intimately connected with 
Melancthon, Luther, Calvin, Thomas More, and others, 
Grymeus was a zealous promoter of the Reformation, 
and, as such, was exposed to great dangers, but always 
managed to get out of them unharmed, thanks to his 
powerful protectors. He was present at the diets of 
Spires and of Worms, and went to England in 1531 to 
confer with Henry VIII about his divorce. He was 
employed to collect the opinions^ of the Reformed the- 
ologians on that subject. A great admirer of the clas- 
sics, he did much to promote the interests of sound ed- 
ucation in the German universities. He discovered in 
a convent on the Rhine the last five books of Livy 
(published by Erasmus, Basle, 1531, fob). Grynaeus 
published Latin translations of the woi;ks of Plutarch, 
Aristotle, and Chrysostom, the first Greek edition of 
the Yeterinarii medici (Basle, 1537, 4to) and of the Al- 
magest of Ptolemy (Basle, 1538, fol.). He was also the 
author of Nouns Orbis regionum ac insularum veteribus 
incog iiitarum, etc. (Basle, 1532-1555, fol.). See *Bruck- 
er, Ilistoria critica Philosoph. vol. iv, period iii, p. 105 
sq. ; Freytag, Adpuvatns Litterarius , iii, 497; Meleh. 
Adam, Vitce Theolog. p. 56; A thence Rauriccc, ii, 69-72; 
Rcimmann, 1 list. Littercir. iv, 207 ; lloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, xxii, 272 ; Burnet, History of Reformation , 
pt. i, hk. ii ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 402 ; Middleton, 
Evangelical Biography, i, 149. 

Grynaeus, Simon, a Swiss Protestant theologian 
and philologist (last of the eminent family of Gryna}- 
ns), was born at Basle in 1725, and died in that city in 
1799. He was a thorough theological and classical 
scholar, and well acquainted with French, English, and 
Latin literature. He published a translation of the 
Bible (Basle, 1776), and also versions of Juvenal , 
Thomas a Kempis , and Erasmus’s Encomium 3 for ire. 
He also translated into German several English works 
against Deism. See M. Lutz, Nehrol. denkw. Schiveiz. 
a. d. xt'iii' en Jahrh. ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biograph . Generate , 
xxii, 275. 

Grynaeus, Thomas, nephew of Simon Grj’meus 
major, and an eminent Protestant divine, was born at 
Vehringen in 1512. lie was brought up by his uncle 
Simon, and became professor of the dead languages at 
Basle and Berne. He was a zealons promoter of the 
Reformation. The margrave Charles of Baden ap- 
pointed him pastor and ecclesiastical superintendent 
at Roteln, where he remained until his death, Aug. 2, 
1564. See Meleh. Adam, Vitce Theolcg. p. 191 ; Hoe- 
fer, Now. Biog. Generate , xxii, 273 ; Middleton, Evan- 
gelical Biography. 

Gualbert, Giovanni (St. Johannes'), founder of 
the Coenobite order of Vallombrosa (vallis umbrosa), in 
the Apennines, seven leagues from Florence. He 
died duly 12, 1073, and was canonized by pope Celes- 
trne 111 in 1193. His life is in the Acta Sanctorum . — 
Mosheim, Ch. Hist. cent, xi, pt. ii, ch. ii, § 24; Jamie- 
son, Legends of the Monastic Orders , p. 116 sq. ; lloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxvi, 441 ; Herzog, ReakEncy- 
klop. v, 406. 


GualfricL See Geoffrey. 

Gualter, Rodolpiius, son-in-law of Zwingle, and 
one of the first Swiss Reformers, was born at Zurich 
Nov. 9, 1519, succeeded Bullinger as pastor, became 
superintendent at Zurich in 1575, and died Nov. 25, 
1586. Ilis commentaries are highly esteemed and 
rare, viz. llomilias cccxi in Matthauiji (Zurich, 1590-9G, 
2 vols. fol.) : — Homil. clxxv in Acta (Zurich, 1577, fol.). 
He wrote also a strong anti-papal treatise, Antichristus 
(Zurich, 1546, Svo). A complete edition of his works 
appeared at Zurich in 1585 (15 vols. 8vo). — lloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxi, 810; Winer, Theol. Liter a- 
tur, ii, 555 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographica, i, 1350. 

Guard. The Scripture terms used in this connec- 
tion mostly have reference to the special duties which 
the body-guard of a monarch had to perform. See 
King. 

1. Tabbach', n 273, originally signified a “cooit;” 
and as butchering fell to the lot of the cook in Eastern 
countries, it gained the secondary sense of “execu- 
tioner,” and is applied to the body-guard of the kings 
of Egypt (Gen. xxxvii, 36) and Balylon (2 Kings xx v, 
8 ; Jer. xxxix, 9 ; xl, 1 ; Dan. ii, 14). So Potiphar, the 
master of Joseph, was captain of Pharaoh’s body-guard , 
i. e. chief executioner (Gen. xxxix, 1 ; lxi, 10, 12). In 
Egypt he had a public prison in bis house (Gen. lx, 3- 
4). It is evident from Herodotus (ii, 165 sq.) that the 
kings of Egypt had a guard who, 
in addition to the regular income 
of the soldier, also received a sep- 
arate salary. In the paintings of 
marches and battles on the mon- 
uments, these royal guards are 
commonly seen to be employed in 
protecting the person of the king, 
and are distinguished by peculiar 
dresses and weapons (Wilkinson, 
i, 337, 406). During the reign of 
the Ptolemies, who in general ad- 
hered to the usages of the ancient 
Egyptians, the office of the com- 
mander of the body-guard was a 
very important one.- They possess- 
ed the confidence of the king, and 
w r ere often employed in the most 
important business transactions. Finally, the super- 
intendence of the executions belonged to the most dis- 
tinguished caste. In Babylon, Nebuzaradan, who held 
this office, commanded also a part of the royal army 
(Jer. xxxix, 13 ; Iii, 15). See Executioner. 

2. Rats, properly means a courier, and is the 
ordinary term employed for the attendants of the Jew- 
ish kings, whose office it was to run before the char- 
iot (2 Sam. xv, 1; 1 Kings i, 5), like the cursores of 
the Roman emperors (Seneca, Epist. 87, 126). That 
the Jewish “ runners’’ superadded the ordinaiy duties 
of a military guard appears from several passages (1 
Sam. xxii, 17 ; 2 Kings x, 25 ; xi, 6 ; 2 Cliron. xii, 
10). It was their office also to carry dispatches (2 
Chron. xxx, 6). They had a guard-room set apart 
for their use in the king’s palace, in which their arms 
were kept ready for use (1 Kings xiv, 28; 2 Cliron. 
xii, 11). See Footman. They were perhaps the same 
who, under David, were called Pelethitcs (1 Kings i, 5 ; 
xiv, 27 ; 2 Sam. xv, 1). See Peletiiite. 

3. The terms mishme'reth, and mishmar' , 

*1 express properly the act of watching, or else a 
watch -station, but are occasionally transferred to the 
persons who kept watch (Neh. iv, 9, 22; vii, 3; xii, 
9; Job vii, 12). The A. V. is probably correct in sub- 
stituting mishmarto' ("F.~~ , .2~) for the present read- 
ing in 2 Sum. xxiii, 23, Benaiah being appointed “cap- 
tain of the guard,” as Josephus (Ant. vii, 14, 4) re- 
lates, and not privy councillor: the same error has 
crept into the text in 1 Sam. xxii, 14, where the words 



Ancient Egyptian 
Sentry. 


GUARDIAN ANGEL 1025 GUELPHS AND GHIBELLINES 


“which goeth at thy bidding” may originally have 
been “ captain of the body-guard.” See Captain. 

In New-Test, times we lind the oirtKouXarmp, for 
the Latin speculator (rendered “executioner,” margin 
guard , Mark vi, '27), properly a pike-man, halberdier, 
a kind of soldiers forming the body-guard of kings and 
princes, who also, according to Oriental custom, acted 
as executioners. The term icovorwCia, for the Latin 
cusiodia, i. e. custody, a “watch” or guard, is spoken 
of the Roman soldiers at the sepulchre of Jesus (Matt, 
xxvii, 65, 66 ; xxviii, 11). The ordinary Homan guard 
consisted of four soldiers ( TtTpaCiov , “quaternion”), 
of which there were four, corresponding to the four 
watches of the night, who relieved each other every 
three hours (Acts xii, 4; comp. John xix, 23; Polyb. 
vi, 33, 7). When in charge of a prisoner, two watch- 
ed outside of the cell while the other two were inside 
(Acts xii, 6). The officer mentioned in Acts xxviii, 
1G (rTTparoTreodpxVGi ‘‘captain of the guard”) was per- 
haps the commander of the Praetorian troops, to whose 
care prisoners from the provinces were usually con- 
signed (Pliny, Ep. x, 65). See Watch. 

Guardian Angel, a term which represents a the- 
ory prevalent from antiquit} 7 , that human beings are 
accompanied through life by a special supernatural 
being (sometimes termed their “attendant genius”), 
who watches over them for guidance and protection. 
Such has been thought to be the meaning of Socrates 
when he claimed a particular ciaipoiv as his spiritual 
counsellor. See D.ejion. Among Christian writers 
the theory has been thought to derive confirmation 
from the statement of our Saviour respecting children, 
that “in heaven their angels do always behold the 
face of my Father which is in heaven” (Matt, xviii, 
10); and from the declaration that angels “are all 
ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who 
shall be heirs of salvation” (Heb. i, 14). A more cau- 
tious criticism, however, has usually held that these 
passages only indicate a special care of divine Provi- 
dence over the 3 ’oung and believers ; and the peculiar 
form of the doctrine referred to appears to savor rather 
of a pagan than an evangelical origin. Monographs 
are named in Walch, Bibliotheca Theologica , i, 178, 
and Volbeding, Index Programmatum, p. 116. Sec An- 
gel. 

Guardian of the Spiritualities, in England, 
the person in whom is vested the ecclesiastical jurisdic- 
tion of a diocese upon the death or translation of the 
bishop, or in cases of infirmity of the incumbent or 
bishop. — Eden, Churchman's Dictionary . 

Guarin, Pierre, a French Hebraist, was born at 
Tronquay (Normandy) in 1678. He entered the order of 
the Benedictines of St. Maur Oct. 21, 1696, became sub- 
sequently professor of Greek and Hebrew, and died li- 
brarian of the abbey of St. Germain des Pres, Dec. 29, 
1729. Tic had a lively literary controversy with can- 
on Masclef, and wrote Grammatica Ilebraica ct Chal- 
daica , etc. (Paris, 1724-8, 2 vols. 4to) : — Lexicon Ilebra - 
icum et Chaldaobiblicum (Par. 174G, 2 vols. 4to). Gua- 
rin only completed this dictionary to Mem inclusively ; 
the following letters were the work of other Benedic- 
tines. See Le Ccrf, BibL Ilist. et crit. des A uteurs de la 
Cong, de St. Maur ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxii, 318. 

Guastallines, a monastic order in the Roman 
Catholic Church, founded in 1534 by countess Torelli, 
of Guastalla. ' They were at first connected with the 
Barnabites, whom they assisted in their missions ; but, 
as this led to disorders, they were ordered to take the 
vow of seclusion. They were also called the Angelic 
order ( Angelics ), which name was to remind them that 
they should be as pure in their lives as angels. 

Guatemala. See Central America. 

Gude, Gottlob Friedrich, a German theologian, 
was born at Lauban Aug. 26, 1701. lie studied the- 
ology in the universities of Halle and Leipzig, and 
taught for some time in the latter. Having returned 
III.— T T T 


to liis native city in 1727, he was made chief deacon in 
1743, and archdeacon in 1753. He died at Lauban 
June 20, 1756. Among his numerous publications are 
De Causis Dissensuum inter Scriptures Interpretes (Lpz. 
1724) : — Der Christen Reise nach dem rechten Vaterland 
(llal. 1726, fol.) : — De Jurisconsultorum Mentis in Scrip - 
turam (Lauban. 1728) : — De mystica Miraculorum et fa - 
torum Christi Interpretatione (Lpz. 1729) : — Grundliche 
Erliiuterung des Briefs Pauli an die Epheser (Lauban, 
1735). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxii, 340. 

Gudgo'dah [some Gud'godali ] (Heb. with the art. 
and 11 directive, hag-Gudgud f -ah, orperh. 

thunder ; Sept. Vadycio ; Vulg. Gadgad ), the fortieth 
station of the Israelites during their wanderings in the 
desert, between Mount Hor and Jotbath (Deut. x, 7) ; 
doubtless the same with IIor-hagidgad, through 
which they had previously passed between Benc-jaakan 
and Jotbath (Numb, xxxiii, 32). The name appears to 
be preserved in the present wady Ghudhaghidh (“ dim- 
inutions”), mentioned by Robinson {Res. i,267) as “a 
broad sandy valley which drains the remainder of the 
region between the Jerafeh and el-Mukrah, and carries 
its waters eastward to the former.” See Exode. In 
this identification two late travellers agree (Schwartz, 
p. 213 ; Bonar, p.286, 295). See Hor-iiagidgad. Dr. 
Robinson suggests that Gudgodah and Jotbathah may. 
be in the Arabab, near the function of wady Ghurun- 
del with wady el-Jeib {lies, li, 583). See Jotdatii. 

Gudule, Goule, or Ergoule, St., a Belgian vir- 
gin, patroness of Brussels, is said, according to tradition, 
to have been born in Brabant about 650. • She was the 
daughter of St. Amalbergc, and was educated by her 
godmother, St. Gertrude, abbess of the convent of Ni- 
velle. In 664, Gertrude having died, Gudule -went to 
reside with count Witger, the second husband of her 
mother. While there she led a life of extravagant as- 
ceticism, and, according to the Romish legend, accu- 
mulated such a stock of good works that God gave her 
the power to work miracles both during her life and 
after her death ! She died Jan. 8, 712, and -was buried 
in the church of St. Michael, Brussel’s, which w T as sub- 
sequently called after her, and is now the cathedral of 
St. Gudule. She is commemorated on the 8th of Jan- 
uary, and is the object of special veneration through- 
out Belgium. See Ruth d’Ans, Vie de St. Gudule 
(Brussels, 1703, 12mo); Baillet, Ties des Saints (vol.i, 
Jan. 8) ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxii, 352 ; But- 
ler, Lives of the Saints, Jan. 8. 

Guebres. Sec Parsees. 

Guedier de Saint- Aubin, Henri Michel, a 
French theologian, was born at Gournay-en-Bray June 
17, 1695. He studied at Paris, and received the doc- 
tor’s degree from the Sorbonne Oct. 29, 1723. He be- 
came professor in that institution in 1730, and its libra- 
rian in 173G. Some time after he obtained the abbey of 
St.Vulmer. He was acquainted with Hebrew, Greek, 
Latin, French, English, and Italian, besides history, 
theology, and kindred sciences. For fourteen years 
he decided all cases of conscience presented to the Sor- 
bonne. He died at Paris Sept. 27, 1742. lie wrote, 
Ilistoire sainte des deux Alliances (Paris, Didot, 1741, 7 
vols. 12mo), which Morcri considers as a good concord- 
ance of the O. and N. T. At the end of every part are 
remarks and arguments on the designs of the sacred 
writers, and on the authenticity and inspiration of their 
writings. — Ladvocat, Diet, historique ; Morcri, Diet, 
hist. (edit. 1759) ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxii, 358. 

Guelpherbytanus, Codex. See Wolfenbut- 
tel Manuscript. 

Guelphs and Ghibellines, the names given to 
two great mediaeval parties which acquired a pre-emi- 
nent celebrity especially in Germany and Italy, inas- 
much as their contests made up a great portion of the 
history of those countries from the lltl) to the 14th cen- 
turies, and which claim notice here because of the close 


GUELPHS ANI) GHIBELLINES 1020 GUIBERT DE NOGENT 


connection of their party strifes with the ecclesiastical 
history of that period, and the use which the papacy 
made of them to increase its power and authority. 
According to the most reliable authorities, the word 
Guelph, or Guelf, is derived from “ 11 V/‘,” a baptismal 
name in several Italo-German families, which may be 
^traced even up to the 9th century in a line of princes 
who migrated from Italy to Germany in the 11th cen- 
tury, when it appears there as the name of several 
chiefs of the ducal house of Saxony. Ghibelline is re- 
ferred to u Waiblingen” (anciently Wibelingeii), a town 
of Wiirtemberg, and the patrimonial seat of the Ilolien- 
stauffen family. The party conflicts originating in the 
rivalry of the ducal houses above mentioned, and prob- 
ably also the party names, are of earlier date, but the 
first recorded use of these terms to designate the op- 
posing parties occurred A.D. 1140, in the great battle 
of Weinsberg, in Suabia, fought between the partisans 
of Conrad of Hohenstauffen and those of Henry the 
Lion, of the house of We If, rival claimants of the im- 
perial throne. In this battle the followers of Conrad 
rallied to the cty of “ Ilie Waiblingen !” and those of 
Henry to the cry of “ Hie Welf !” These party cries, 
transferred to Italy, subsequently the chief theatre of 
these party contests, became Ghibellini and Guelphi 
or Guelfi, in the Italian language, the former designa- 
ting the supporters, and the latter the opponents of the 
imperial authority, which generally vested in the llo- 
lienstauffen house. The opposition to this authority 
arose from two sources, viz. (1) from the cities and 
smaller principalities seeking to maintain their local 
rights and liberties, and (2) from the popes, who, jeal- 
ous of the power of the German emperors, and irritated 
by their exercise of authority in ecclesiastical matters, 
especially in regard to investitures (q. v.), favored the 
party of the Guelplis, and, indeed, became the represent- 
ative leaders thereof. Hence the term Guelph came 
to signify in general those who favored the Church’s 
independence of the State, and the maintenance of mu- 
nicipal liberty as against the partisans of a supreme 
and centralized civil authority represented in the em- 
peror. This statement, however, seems not to hold 
good always, since in the multiplied and complicated 
conflicts of these parties an interchange of the distinc- 
tive principles and objects of each appears to have 
taken place in certain instances, and the interests of 
the hierarchy by no means always coincided with the 
aspirations for municipal and personal freedom, how- 
ever freely it evoked them to advance its own ends. 
The contest of the papacy for supremacy over the civil 
power, organized and definitely directed to its object 
by Gregory VII (q. v.), culminated in the pontificate 
of Innocent III (q. v.), when, “under that young and 
ambitious priest, the successors of St. Peter attained 
the full meridian of their greatness” (Gibbon, vi, 3G, 
Harper’s ed.), and “the imperial authority at Rome 
breathed its last sigh” (Muratori, Annal. Ital . anno 
1198). 

In the contests of the Ghibelline and Guelph par- 
ties historians note “five great crises,” viz. (1) in 1055, 
under Henry IV; (2) in 1127, under Henry the Froud; 
(3) in 1140, under Henry the Lion ; (4) in 1159, under 
Frederick Barbarossa; and (5) the pontificate of Inno- 
cent III. After the decline of the imperial authority 
in Italy, in the conflicts between opposingparties among 
the nobility and in the cities, Ghibelline was used to 
designate the aristocratic party, and Guelph those pro- 
fessedly favoring popular government. But the party 
name, as thus defined, did not always represent the real 
principles and objects of the party. In the course of 
time the contest “degenerated into a mere struggle of 
rival factions, availing themselves of the prestige of 
ancient names and traditional or hereditary prejudices” 
(Chambers), so that in 1273 pope Gregory X used the 
following language : “Guelpfius nut Gibeilinus, nom- 
ina ne illis quidem, qui ilia proferuut, nota ; inane 
nomen, quod significat, nemo intelligit” (Muratori, 


Scriptt. reruin Italicarum, xi, 178); and in 1334 pope 
Benedict XII forbade the further use of the terms, and 
“we read little more of Guelplis and Ghibellines as ac- 
tually existing parties.” The conflict of principles in 
ecclesiastical as well as civil polity which these terms 
once served to represent may be traced through every 
subsequent age, and has not, even in this 19th century, 
ceased to exist. — Chambers, Cyclopedia, s. v. ; English 
Cyclop, s. v. ; New American Cyclop, viii, 547-8 ; Iloe- 
fer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , xxii, 360 sq. ; Sismomli, 1 list. 
Des Franc ais (see I udex) ; Ranke, Hist, of Papacy (see 
1 ndex); Herzog, Rcal-Encyll. xvii, 659 sq. (J. W. M.) 

Guenee, Antoine, a French abbot, was horn at 
Etampes Nov. 23, 1717. He studied at Paris, entered 
the Church, and attained high degrees in the univer- 
sity. For twenty years professor of rhetoric at the 
college of Plessis, he travelled through Italy, Ger- 
many, and England to acquire a knowledge of their 
languages, and on his return published several trans- 
lations. He afterwards wrote the Lcttres de quelques 
Juifs against Voltaire, for which he was made canon 
of the cathedral of Amiens, and afterwards attached 
to the chapel of Versailles by cardinal de la Roche- 
Aymon. During the Revolution he was imprisoned 
for ten months at Fontainebleau, and after his libera- 
tion lived in retirement with his brother. lie died at 
Fontainebleau Nov. 27, 1803. Among his publications 
are : Les Temoins de la Resurrection de Jesus Christ ex- 
amines suivant les regies du larreau (from the Engl, of 
Sherlock, against Woolston, Paris, 1753, 12mo): — La 
Religion chretienne demontree par la conversion et Vapos- 
tolat de Saint rani (from the Engl, of Lyttleton, with 
the addition of tw r o discourses by Seed) : — Sur V Excel- 
lence intrins'eque de VEvnture (Paris, 1754, 12mo) : — Ob- 
servations sur Vhistoire et sur lespreuves de la Resurrec- 
tion de Jesus Christ (from the Engl, of West, against 
Woolston) (Paris, 1757, 12mo): — Lettres de quelques 
Juifs portugais , allemands et polonais a M. de Voltaire 
(Paris, 17G9, 8vo); often reprinted, wfith additions, as 
6th ed. Paris, 1805, 3 vols. 8vo and 12rao; 7th ed. Paris, 
1815, 4 vols. 8vo ; 8tli ed. Paris, 1817, 8vo ; Lyon and 
Paris, 1857, 3 vols. 12mo ; transl. into English by Le- 
fanu under the title Letters of certain Jews to Voltaire 
(Dublin, 1777, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Recherches sur la Judee 
considered principalcment par rapport ii la ftrtilite de 
son terroir , depuis la captivile de Babylone jusqu'a nos 
temps, in Memoir es de V Academic des Inscidptions, vol. 1 
(1808), composed of papers read by him before this so- 
ciety, of which he had been elected member in 1778. — 
Dacier, Notice sur Vabbe Guenee (at the head of the 7th 
ed. of Lettres de quelques Jufs , etc., Paris, 1815); Quc- 
rard, La France litteraire ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen . 
xxii, 381 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographica, i, 1351. 

Guertler, Nicolaus, D.D., a learned Protestant 
divine, was born at Basel in 1G54. He studied at the 
university of that city, and in 1G85 became professor 
of philosophy and rhetoric at llerborn. He after- 
wards became professor of theology at Ilanau, and in 
169G at Bremen. From thence he removed to De- 
venter in 1699, and to Franeker in 1707. He died in 
1711. His principal work is Systema thcologier pro- 
pheticce, cum indicibus necessariis (Utrecht, editio se- 
cunda emendata, 1724, 4to). — Darling, Cyclojy. Bibliog. 
ii, 1S5G ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gen. xxii, 855. (J. II. P.) 

Guest. See Hospitality. 

Guest-chamber (nardXiqta, a lodging-place , i. e. 
properly inn, as rendered in Luke ii, 7 ; hence any room 
of entertainment, and so used by the Sept, at 1 Sam. ix, 
22 ; Neh. iii, 5 ; Ezek. xl, 44), the virepiyov, canaculum , 
or spare apartment in an Oriental dwelling (Mark xiv, 
14 ; Luke xxii, 11). See House. At the public fes- 
tivals these may naturally be supposed to have been 
placed at the service of strangers attending Jerusalem 
for that purpose. See Passover. 

Gui. See Guido. 

Guibert de Nogent, a French scholastic theolo- 


GUIBERT DE NOGEXT 


1027 


GUIDO DE BEES 


gian and historian, of noble and wealthy parentage, 
was born in 1053 near Clermont, and died in 1124. He 
lost his father while quite young, but the diligent care 
and zeal of his pious mother gave to his early training 
a strongly religious tendency. He was educated at 
the abbey of St. Germer, which he entered at 12 years 
of age, and w here he enjoyed the instructions of An- 
selm (q. v.),. then prior in the neighboring abbey of 
Bee. At first be found his chief delight in poetry and 
the reading of classic poets ; but a severe illness gave 
a more serious direction and higher development to his 
inner life, and he devoted himself to the study of the 
Scriptures and ecclesiastical -writers. At the age of 
fifty he became abbot of Notre-Dame de Nogent, where 
he composed most of his works. Though not exempt 
from the credulity and monkish devotion to hierarch- 
ical ideas which belong to his age, Guibert was for his 
time a man of more than ordinary learning and in- 
dependence of spirit, to which he gave expression in 
his severe condemnation of the prevailing supersti- 
tions and errors in regard to relics and false miracles. 
The best edition of his writings is that published by 
D’Achery under the title Vcnerabilis Guiberti Abbatis 
B. Maria? de Novigento Opera Omnia prodeunt , etc. 
(Paris, 1651, fol.). In this edition are found (p.1-525) 
the following w'orks of Guibert (the list and sketch of 
which, given here, are based on Herzog), viz. : 1. Liber 
quo online sermo fieri debeat; written while he was a 
monk at St. Germer, and especially interesting as being 
one of the few works on Homiletics coming to us from 
the Middle Ages: — 2. Moralium Geneseos Librix; a fig- 
urative exposition of Genesis after the style of Gregory 
the Great's M or alia in Jobwn: — 3. Tropolog'arum in 
Propketas Osea et Amos et Lamentationes J eremite libri 
v ; with a preface and epilogue addressed to Norbert, 
founder of the Premonstrants (q. v.) : — 4. Tractatus de 
incarnatione contra Judreos; an apologetic treatise in 
vindication of the divinity and virgin-birth of Christ: 
— 5. Epistola de bucce'la Judce data et de veritate domi- 
nici corpons ; in answer to the question whether Ju- 
das received the Eucharist or not, w ith a defence of 
Lanfranc’s doctrine of the Eucharist against that of 
Berengarius (q. v.):— 6. De laade S. Maria liber; 
wherein, though a zealous worshipper of the Virgin 
Mary, he makes no mention of her immaculate concep- 
tion : — 7. Opusculum de Virginitate : — 8. De pignombus 
Sanctorum libri iv ; a work on the w r orship of saints 
and relics, in wdiich many abuses and errors connected 
therewith are boldly criticised and condemned, and the 
monks of St.Medard at Soissons are severely censured 
for pretending to possess a genuine tooth of Christ. 
Guibert will not allow that the miraculous virtues 
claimed for relics are a proof of genuineness or sanc- 
tity : — 9. Historia qua dicitur gesta Dei per Francos sire 
Ifistoria Hierosolymitana ; a valuable account of the 
first Crusade, founded on an earlier narrative by a cru- 
sader, perhaps a Norman knight, entitled Gesta Fran- 
corum et alionim Hicrosolymitanomm, which is comple- 
mented In- materials obtained of other eye-witnesses: — 
10. De vita sna sice Monodiarum libri Hi; an autobiog- 
raphy after the plan of St. Augustine’s Confessions, and 
containing also much material valuable for the history 
of the Church and of the social life of the period. Besides 
the w'orks above enumerated, Guibert wrote some com- 
mentaries on the minor prophets (the MSS. of w hich 
were formerly preserved in the libraries of Vauelair 
and Pontigny), as also another excgetical w'ork, men- 
tioned by himself ( De vita sna , i, 16), but now lost, 
bearing the title Capitularis libellus de diversis evavge- 
liorum et propheticorum voluminum. He was also prob- 
ably the author of a sermon delivered at the feast of 
St. Magdalena, found in Mabillon’s edition of the w’orks 
of St. Bernard of Clair vaux, ii, 701. Another work, 
Flucidarium sive dialogus suvimam totius Christiance re - 
ligionis complectens , has been erroneously ascribed to 
him. — Herzog, Rcal-Encyldop . xix, 584 sq. ; Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate , xxii, 515; Clarke, Success, of Sac. 


Lit. ii, 647 ; Mosheim, Ch. Hist. c. xii, pt. ii, ch. ii, n. 
71 ; Ilist. litter, de la France , vii, 80, 92, 1X8, 124, 14G; 
ix, 433. (J. W. M.) 

Guibert, Anti-pope, was born at Parma in the 11th 
century. His family name was Correggia, and he was 
said to be descended from the counts of Augsburg. 
Made archbishop of Ravenna through the influence of 
the emperor Henry IV, he was elected pope by a coun- 
cil held at Brescia (hostile to Gregory VII) in 1080, 
and took the name of Clement III. His first act of 
authority was to excommunicate Gregory VI T, w ho, in 
turn, put him under the ban, and never consented to 
grant him absolution. Guibert took Rome by force, 
but in 1089 was compelled to leave the city. lie died 
at Ravenna in 1100. His election gave rise to the sect 
of the Ilenricians , who claimed that the emperor alone 
possessed the right of appointing popes. The sect was 
condemned by several councils, and finally disappear- 
ed towards the end of the 12th century. — See Artaud, 
Ilist. des souverains Pontifes, vol. ii ; Art de Verifier les 
Dates; lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gtner. xxii, 514 ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyldop. v, 408 sq. 

Guibert of Ravenna. See Guibert (Anti- 
pope). 

Guide (the rendering; more or less proper, of vari- 
ous Heb. words ; Gr. oo/yoi;). Such w r as Hobab in- 
vited by Moses to become to the Israelites in the wil- 
derness (Numb, x, 31, “that thou mavest be to us in- 
stead of eyes"). See Exode. 

Guido de Arezzo, or Gui, a Benedictine monk 
of the abbey of Pomposa, noted in the history of mu- 
sic. He was born at Arezzo about 990, and early dis- 
tinguished himself by his talent for music, which he 
taught in his convent. Numerous inventions (e. g. 
counter-point) have been attributed to Guido without 
good ground ; hut he did render great service to music 
by his ingenious simplification of the existing methods 
of notation. He wrote Micrologus de Disciplina Artis 
MusictP, “or Brief Discourses on Music, in which most* 
of his inventions are described, as well as his method 
of instruction.” His doctrine of solmisation is, how- 
ever, not found in that w ork, but set forth in a small 
tract under the title of Argumentum novi Cantus inveni- 
endi. He died about the middle of the 11th century, 
but the exact date of his death is unknown. See 
Burney, History of Music ,• Gerbert, Scrijdorcs Eccl. de 
Musica Sacra ; Hoefer, Xouvt lle Biog. Generate , xxii, 
551 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 411. 

Guido de Bres, an evangelist and martyr of the 
Walloon Church, was born at Mens in 1540. He was 
brought up in the Church of Rome, hut by searching 
the Scriptures arrived at the knowledge of evangelical 
truth, and was compelled by persecution to escape to 
London, where he joined the Walloon Church organ- 
ized under Edward VI, anil prepared himself for the 
ministry. He afterwards returned to his native coun- 
try as evangelist and travelling preacher, in which ca- 
pacity he showed great zeal, first at Lille, where there 
was a large secret Protestant community, wdiich was 
dispersed by force in 1566. Guido then retired to 
Ghent, where he published a polemic tract out of the 
fathers entitled Le baton de la foi. He then went to 
prosecute his studies at Geneva, where he became a 
determined adherent of Calvin. Returning to his 
country, he resumed his evangelical labors, reorgan- 
ized the three principal communities of Lille, Tournav, 
and Valenciennes, and made the whole of southern Bel- 
gium and northern France, from Dieppe to Sedan and 
from Valenciennes to Antwerp, the field of his indefati- 
gable activity. Valenciennes, which had become al- 
most entirely Protestant, w r as stormed by Noircarmes 
in 1567. Guido was caught while attempting to escape, 
and was throw n into prison. After seven weeks of im- 
prisonment he was hanged, with the young La Grange, 
on the last day of May, 1567. Guido, though in the 
prime of life, leaving behind him a wife and several 


GUIGNARD 


1028 


GUILLAIN 


young children, met death not only calmly, hut cheer- 
fully. While in prison he had written letters of con- 
solation both to his mother, to whom he was much at- 
tached, and to his congregation ; the latter epistle, con- ! 
taining a thorough refutation of the Roman Catholic 
doctrine of transubstantiation, is to be found in the 
Ilistoire des Martyrs (Geneva, 1017), together with a 
life of Guido and La Grange (p. 731-750). 

Guido’s prediction that the seeds of Protestantism 
he had so carefully sowed would grow with greater 
strength after being watered with his blood, has been j 
fulfilled. To him the Dutch Church owes the fact I 
that, instead of becoming a mere branch of the French 1 
(Calvinistic) or the German Reformed Church, it has 
remained between the two, a shield and a blessing for 
both. Guido drew up in 1559 a confession of faith, 
after the model of the French Confession drawn up in 
1550 at Paris. This confession he submitted to Cal- ( 
vin, by whose advice he changed it in some particu- 
lars, and, after obtaining the assent of the principal , 
Reformed churches in the Netherlands, he published 
it in 1562 as the Confession of Faith of the Reformed • 
Churchin the Netherlands , sending a copy of it, with an ! 
appropriate and remarkable introduction, to king Phil- 
ip II. The theologians of Geneva believed that the 
Netherland churches might adopt the French Confes- 
sion as it stood ; but Guido probably foresaw that the 
adoption of a confession exclusively their own, in 
French and Low-Dutch, was the only means to form 
a united church in that country, inhabited by people 
of two nations and speaking two languages. See Le 
Long, Kort kistorisch Yerhaal van den oorsprong der ne- 
derlandschen gereformeerden kerken ondert Kings, etc. 
(Amsterd. 1741, 4 to) ; G. Brandt, Historic der reformatie 
in en ontrent de Nederlanden (Amsterd. 1671); Ypey en 
Dennout, Gesehledenis der Nederlandsche IJerrormde 
Kerk (Breda, 1818 sq.) ; and especially Van der Kemp, 
de Eere der nederlandsche kcrvormde Kerk (Rotterdam, 
1830). — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. v, 412; Motley, Rise 
of the Dutch Republic , vol. i ; Christian Intelligencer, 
March 14, 1801. 

Guignard, Jean, surnamed Briquarel , a French 
Jesuit of the 16th century, and, during the League, 
rector and librarian of the college of Clermont at Par- 
is. After the attempt of Jean Chat el against the life 
of king Ilenry IV, the Jesuits were charged with be- 
ing implicated in the affair, as the would-be assassin 
was one of their pupils. Their houses were searched, 
and some violent writings of Guignard against the king 
were discovered. He defended himself bj' saying they 
had been written before the king’s conversion to Ro- 
man Catholicism, and that since that time he had al- 
ways taught obedience to the royal authority and re- 
membered the king in his prayers. He was condemn- 
ed of high treason, sentenced to be hung, and his body 
burnt. The execution took place on the same day, 
Jan. 7, 1595. He persisted to the last in asserting his 
innocence. The next day all the Jesuits were ban- 
ished from Paris. Some Jesuit writers — father Jouven- 
cy, for instance — in writing the history of the order, 
have represented Guignard as a martyr. See Sully, 
f Economies royales ; L’Etoile, Journal de Ilenri III ; 
De Thou, IHst. lib. cxi ; Sismondi, Hist, des Erangais 
(see Index); Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Cencrale , xxii, 5GG. 
(J. N. P.) 

Guignes, Chretien Louis Joseph de, a French 
Orientalist, was born at Paris Aug. 25, 1759, and died 
in the same city March 9, 1845. He was instructed 
by his father, Joseph de Guigncs, in the Oriental lan- 
guages, making Chinese a special study. In 1784 he 
was appointed French resident in China and consul at 
Canton, and before his departure thither was also ap- 
pointed correspondent to the Academy of Sciences and 
the Academy of Inscriptions and’ Belles-Lettres. Af- 
ter spending 17 years in China he returned to France, 
■having meanwhile communicated to the academies sev- 


eral interesting and useful papers, which were publish- 
ed in their Memoires. In 1808 there issued from the 
imperial press his Voyages a Peking, Manilla , ct Vile de 
France, f aits dans Vintervalle des Armees 1784 a 1801 
(3 vols. 4to, with fol. atlas of maps and plates). Among 
the grand literary projects of the reign of Louis XIV 
was the publication of a dictionary of the Chinese lan- 
guage, but the project has not been realized, and was 
apparently abandoned. The imperial government of 
Napoleon 1 determined to revive and complete the en- 
terprise, and De Guignes, by a decree dated Oct. 22, 
1808, was selected to compile such a work. In 1813 it 
appeared from the imperial press, bearing the title of 
Didionnaire Chinois-Frangais ct Latin, public d'dpr'es 
Vordre de S . M. Vemperear et roi Napolion le Grand, 
etc. (Paris, fob). This work proved to he, in the main, 
only an adaptation of the Hdn-tze-si-yih (i. e. Occiden- 
tal interpretation of Chinese characters), a Chinese- 
Latin vocabulary by a Franciscan missionary to Chi- 
na, Basil de Glemona, whose modest but valuable la- 
bors De Guignes had appropriated without acknowl- 
edgment. The plagiarism was discovered, and severe- 
ly but justly censured by the critics of the time, and 
the effect was undoubtedly to diminish the apprecia- 
tion of any additions or improvements made by Dc 
Guignes. — Iloefer, Nourelle Biog. Genirale , xxii, 569; 
New American Cyclopedia , viii, 555. (J. W. M.) 

Guilbert. See Guidert and Gilbert. 

Guilbertines. See Gilbertines. 

Guild, William, a divine of the Church of Scot- 
land, was horn at Aberdeen in 158G, and educated at 
Marisehal College, then recently founded, with a view 
to holy orders. Before he entered the ministry, how- 
ever, he published a treatise entitled The New Sacrifice 
of Christian Incense ; and The only May to Salvation. 
He was very soon after called to the pastoral charge 
of the parish of king Edward, in the presbytery of Tur- 
riff and synod of Aberdeen. In 1G17, when James I 
visited Scotland with a view to establish episcopacy, 
and brought bishop Andrewes, of Ely, with him, to as- 
sist in the management of that affair, the latter paid 
great regard to Guild ; and the following year, when 
Andrewes was promoted to the see of Winchester, 
Guild dedicated to him his Moses Unveiled , pointing 
out those figures in the Old Testament which allude 
to the Messiah (new ed. Edinb. 1839, royal Svo). He 
wrote several works against Popery; an Exposition of 
Solomon's Song (Loud. 1G58, Svo) : — an Explanation of 
the Apocalypse (Aberdeen, 1G5G) : — Exposition of Second 
Samuel (Oxford, 1G59, 4to). He was a man of great 
learning. In 1G40 lie was made principal of King’s 
College, Aberdeen, but, taking part with the monarchy, 
was deposed by the Parliamentary commissioners in 
1G51, and died in 1657. See Shirreffs, Life of Guild 
(Aberdeen, 1799, 2d edit. Svo) ; Allibone, Diet, of .4 u- 
thors, i, 748 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographic a, i, 1352. 

Guilds. In the Middle Ages, religious clubs or 
mutual benefit societies, embracing men and women, 
were established in nearly every parish church. They 
kept yearly feasts, supported annals for the repose of 
deceased members, sometimes also hospitals for the 
relief of decayed members, and always collected alms 
for their sick and poor. On certain anniversaries they 
met at a common altar, wearing livery gowns and 
hoods, usually of two colors, and the badge of their 
patron saint. In the monasteries, kings, nobles, and 
benefactors were admitted as lay members, and in the 
parish societies as honorary members. “The mem- 
bers promised fidelity to the guild rules and obedience 
to the superiors.” Of late, the Ritualists in the An- 
glican Church are endeavoring to revive the guilds, 
and quite a number had been re-established up to the 
year 1869. A list of them is given in the Church 
Union Almanac for 18G9 (Lond. 1869). — AValcott, Sa- 
cred A rchaiology, s. v. (J. W. M.) 

Guillain. See Ghislain. 


GXJILLELMUS 


1029 


GUISE 


Guillelmus. See William. 

Guillemine or Guillemette, a Bohemian en- 
thusiast of the 13th century. She went from Bohe- 
mia to Milan, where she gave herself out as the daugh- 
ter of the queen of Bohemia (Constantia), pretending 
to have been conceived in a miraculous manner, like 
Christ. She professed to have the mission of saving 
bad Christians, Jews, and Mohammedans. Her pre- 
tended visions and semblance of asceticism gained her 
many adherents. The mysteries of her system are said 
to have been grossly immoral. Guillemine died in 
1280, according to Moreri (1300 according to Bossi), 
and was buried with great honors in the monastery 
of Chiaravalle, near Milan, founded by St. Bernard. 
The sect continued under the management of a priest, 
Andrew Saraniita, and of a nun of the order of Iluniil- 
iati, whom Guillemine had herself- pointed out for her 
successor. Six years after, however, their secret prac- 
tices were revealed, and the women were imprisoned 
and punished. Saramita and Porovana were burnt 
after being condemned by the Inquisition, as was also 
the body of Guillemine, disinterred for the purpose. 
The house where the sect met was razed, and a her- 
mitage erected in its place ; it became afterwards part 
of a convent of Carmelites. Some waiters have at- 
tempted to refute the accusation of immorality made 
against the sect. See Bossi, Ckron. ; Mabillon, Mu- 
sceum Iial. vol. i ; Bayle, Diet. /list. ; Hoefer, Noavelle 
Biog. Generate , xxii, 714 sq. (J. N. P.) 

Guilloii, Marie Nicholas Silvestre, a French 
priest and distinguished humanist, was born at Paris 
Jan. 1, 1760. He studied at the colleges of Du Plessis 
and Louis-le-Grand, and acquired great proficiency not 
only in theology, but in medicine, natural sciences, and 
mathematics. Received as professor in the university 
in 1789, he entered the Church, and became soon dis- 
tinguished as a preacher. He was afterwards almoner 
and librarian of the princess of Lamballe until her 
murder, Sept. 1792. He then fled to Sceaux, where, 
under the name of Pastel , he practiced medicine for 
some time to avoid persecution. lie afterwards re- 
moved to Meaux, and in 1798 to Paris. Some time 
after he became connected with the abbot de Fontenay 
in the publication of the Journal general de Literature , 
des Sciences et des Arts. After the restoration of Ro- 
man Catholic worship he became honorary canon and 
librarian of the cathedral of Paris, then professor of 
rhetoric and homiletics in the theological faculty, and 
almoner of the college of Louis-le-Grand. He was af- 
terward successively appointed almoner of the duchess 
of Orleans in 1818, and inspector of the academy. His 
ready acquiescence in the Revolution of 1830 excited 
the displeasure of the clergy, and it was with great 
difficulty the king succeeded in obtaining his appoint- 
ment as bishop of Beauvais. In this position he at- 
tended the last moments of the abbe Gregoire (q. v.), 
to whom he administered the sacraments. Severely 
censured for this, he referred the matter to the pope, 
resigning his bishopric in the mean time. Thanks to 
the interference of the court, the matter was settled, 
and Guillou was appointed bishop of Morocco inparti- 
bus infidelium, July 7, 1833. In 1837 he was appointed 
dean of the faculty of theology ; but, when the French 
government and the clergy entered into closer union, 
Guillon was sacrificed by being sent to Dreux to keep 
the chapel which had successively received the re- 
mains of several children of the king. He died in 
Montfermeil Oct. 16, 1847. He was a most prolific 
writer. Among his theological works we notice the 
following: Qtiest-ce done que'le pape? par vn pretre 
(Paris, 1789, Svo) : — Collection eccles., ou regueil complet 
des ouvrages faits depuis Vouverture des (tats gmeraux 
relativement au clerge (Paris, 1791-1792, 7 vols. Svo, un- 
der the name of Barruel) : — Parallele des Revolutions 
sous le rapport des heresies qui ont desole V Eglise (Paris, 
1791, 8vo; often reprinted): — Brefs et instructions du 


saint-siege relatifs a la Revolution frangaise , etc. (Paris, 
1799, 2 vols. Svo): — Discours prononce dans V eglise de 
St. Sulpice sur l' autorite de V Eglise romaine (Paris, 1802, 
Svo) : — Hist, generate de la Philo sophie ancienne et mo- 
dernc , etc. ; on supplement a la Bibliotheque choisie des 
Peres grecs ei latins (Paris, 1885, 2 vols. 8vo, and 4 vols.^ 
12mo ; 1848, 4 vols. 12mo) ; Hist, de la nouvelle Heresie 
du xix ,ne siicle, ou refutation des ouvrages de M. Vabbe de 
La Mennais (Paris, 1835, 3 vols. 8vo) : — Comparaison de 
la methode des Peres avec celle des predicateurs du xi r me 
siecle (Paris, 1837, Svo) : — Ouvres completes de St. Hyp- 
Hen (transl., with a life of the saint, and notes ; Paris, 
1837, 2 vols. 8vo): — Examen critique des doctrines de 
Gibbon, du docteur Strauss et de M. Salvador, etc. (Paris, 
1841, Svo). Sec Leon Laya, Notice biog. (Moniteur of 
Dec. 15, 1847) ; Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, xxii, 
736 sq. 

Guilt. Sec Sin. 

Guilty, besides its proper signification, occurs in 
the A. V. in the sense of liable as a rendering of 
Numb, xxxv, 31; tvo\oq, Matt, xxvi, 6G ; Mark xiv, 
Gl; and 6<pd\io, Matt, xxiii, 18, like the Lat. reus. 
Guion. See Guyon. 

Guiscard or Guichard de Beaulieu, an An- 
glo-Norman poet, who flourished probably in the reign 
of Stephen, and died in the beginning of the reign of 
Henry II of England. He is known by a poem of 
some length bearing the title of Sermon of Guiscard 
de Beaulieu (le sermun Guischart de Beauliu in the Har- 
leian MS.), which is a satire against the vices of his 
day. According to this poem, Guiscard, disgusted with 
the follies and vanities in which he had passed his 
youth, retired to a monastery. Walter Mapes, a con- 
temporary, or nearly contemporary writer, states (De 
Nitgis Curial. dist. i, c. 13) that Guiscard was a man 
distinguished for his wealth and valor, who in his old 
age surrendered his estates to his son, and, entering a 
Cluniac monastery, became so eminent a poet in his 
vernacular (Anglo-Norman) as to he styled the “Ilo- 
mcr of the laity” (laicorum Homerus'). Of the Sermon , 
which is all now known of his writings, there is a MS. 
of the 12th century in the British Museum (MS. TTarl. 
No. 4388), and an imperfect one in the Bibliotlibque Ira- 
periale of France (No. 185G — given by De la Rue as No. 
25G0). From this last MS. an edition of the Sermon 
was published by Jnbinal (Paris, 1834, 8vo). This 
poem is written in the versification of the earlier met- 
rical romances, and exhibits considerable poetical tal- 
ent, and frequently elegance and energy of expression. 
— Wright, Biog. Brit. Lit. Anglo-Norman Period, p. 131 ; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, xxii, 771. (J. W. M.) 

Guise, House of, the name of a branch of the 
ducal family of Lorraine, which, during the reign of 
Francis I, established itself in France, where it was 
conspicuous in its hostility to the Protestant cause, 
and played a leading part in the religious wars of the 
16th century. The three following members of this 
family were the most prominent for their abilities, and 
for bigoted and unscrupulous antagonism to the Re- 
formed party, viz. 

I. Charles, cardinal of Guise, better known as car- 
dinal of Lorraine, was born at Joinville Feb. 17, 1524, 
and died Dec. 26, 1574. He was made archbishop of 
Rheims in 1538, created a cardinal in 1547, and was 
employed on several important embassies. In 1558, 
at an interview with the cardinal Granville at Peronne, 
he laid - the foundations of the alliance between the 
Guises and Spain, which continued through, and ex- 
erted an important influence on, the civil wars in 
France. He was present at the Council of Trent 
(1562), where at first he favored the demand for re- 
form and the superiority of councils to the pope, but 
was too ambitious to adhere to such principles through- 
out. Under Francis II he was made, or, rather, made 
himself, the administrator of the finances. His char- 


GUISE 


1030 


GULLOTH 


acter is thus portrayed by Dc Felice (p. 71): “The t 
cardinal Charles de Lorraine, archbishop of Rheims, 
and the possessor, in ecclesiastical benefices, of a rev- 
enue of three hundred thousand crowns (many mil- 
lions of our present money), had some learning, affable 
manners, great facility of speech, and much dexterity 
in the management of men and affairs, a deep policy, 
and a vast ambition. He aspired to nothing less than 
the crown of France for his brother, and to the tiara 
for himself. So Pius V, somewhat anxious concern- 
ing the part he was playing in the Church, habitually , 
called him the pope on the other side of the mountains. 
For the rest, he was a priest without settled convic- 
tions, and half preached the Confession of Augsburg 
to please my good masters the Germans , as says Bran- \ 
tome; he was decried for his evil habits, which he did 
not even care to hide, and raised the hooting of the 
populace on quitting the dwelling of a courtesan ; 
lastly, he was as pusillanimous in the face of danger 
as he was arrogant in prosperity.” He was, however, 
a protector of letters, and Rheims owes to him its uni- 
versity. lie left some letters and sermons. 

II. Francois of Lorraine, brother of the preced- 
ing, and second duke of Guise, was born Feb. 17, 1519, 
at the castle of Bar, and died Feb. 24, 1563, of wounds 
inflicted by an assassin named Poltrot de Mere. He 
served with marked distinction and success in the 
army, and gained a European reputation as a general. 
His good fortune and abilities were seconded by the 
potent influence of his niece, Mary Stuart, the wife of 
the weak Francis II, in whose reign Guise rose to the 
height of power in the state, and became the head of 
the Bomanist party. He was able to foil the power- 
ful combination (known in history as the conspiracy 
of Amboise) formed by the malcontent nobles and the 
Protestants to hurl him and his brother, the cardinal 
of Lorraine, from power. Tlic death of Francis II 
compelled him to yield for a time tq the opposition 
which his foreign origin, his rapacity, cruelty, and am- 
bition had aroused against him, and he left the court. 
Soon, however, he formed a league with Montmorenci 
and St. Andre to control the government and oppose 
the Protestants, and having been invited to return to 
Paris by the king of Navarre (Antoine de Bourbon) 
then lieutenant general of the kingdom, and who had 
been won over to the Roman Catholic side, Guise was 
on his way to the capital, when, on Sunday, March 1, 
1562, a bloody butchery of Huguenots, peaceably as- 
sembled for worship, was perpetrated by his followers, 
if not with his approbation, at least with his knowl- 
edge and sufferance. This atrocious act, called the 
Massacre of Yassy (q. v.), was the signal for the long 
and desolating religious wars between the Protestants 
and Bomanists of France. At the head of the Catho- 
lics Guise retook Rouen,. gained a victory at Dreux 
(though he lost bis colleagues, Montmorenci by cap- 
ture and St. Andre by death), and was besieging, with 
the prospect of speed}' - capture, the Protestant strong- 
hold of Orleans, when he was assassinated. He left a 
sort of diary, which may be found in Michaud and 
Poujoulat's Nouvelle Collection de Me moires pour servir 
a VMstoire de France (Paris, 1839, 4to, 1st scries, iv, 
1-539). 

111. Henry of Lorraine, son of the preceding 
and third duke of Guise, was born Dec. 31, 1550, and 
assassinated Dec. 23,15.88, by the orders of Henry 111 
of France, against whose authority and throne lie was 
treasonably plotting. Inheriting his father’s valor, 
ability, and hatred of the Deformation, a hatred inten- 
sified by the false charge that the Protestant chief, 
Coligni, was the instigator of his father’s murder, he 
fought the Huguenots at Jaruac and Moncontour, and 
in the same year (1569) forced Coligni to raise the 
siege of Poitiers, lie was an ardent abettor of and 
active participant in the ‘‘Massacre of St. Bartholo- 
mew” (q. v.), and gave expression to the spirit of a 
base revenge by kicking the dead body of the venera- 


ble Coligni, which bad been thrown by his orders into 
the court-yard, where lie was awaiting the consumma- 
tion of the murder of this most prominent victim of 
that sad day. In 1575 he received, in an encounter 
with the Calvinists, a face-wound, which gave him the 
name of Balafrc (the scarred), an epithet also applied 
for a like reason to his father. In 1576 he was active 
in the formation of the famous Romanist league, called 
the “ Holy Union,” for the suppression of Protestant- 
ism, and “was, until his death, the head and soul of it.” 
Supported by the pope and Philip II of S pain, he, after 
the death of the duke of Anjou in 1584, secretly as- 
pired to the throne of France, and sought to excite the 
nation against its king, Henry III, and the heir ap- 
parent, Henry of Navarre. Though forbidden by royal 
order to enter Paris, Guise made a triumphal entry 
into, and, during the popular rebellion known as “the 
day of barricades,” was virtually master of the capi- 
tal, and, had Ins courage equalled his ambition, might 
have been proclaimed king. In the same year he at- 
tended a meeting of the States General at Blois, where 
he demanded the appointment of high constable and 
general in chief of the kingdom. Henry, satisfied 
that his own life and throne were endangered by 
Guise’s ambition, caused him and his brother, cardinal 
de Guise, to be slain by bis guards. — lloefer, Nouvelle 
Bicg. Generale , xxii, 776-9, and 784-6; De Felice, His- 
tory of the Protestants of France (London, 1853, 12mo) ; 
Wright, History of France , i, 680-718; Sismondi, His- 
toire des Frangais (see Index); Rose, New Gen.Hiog. 
Did. viii, 155, 156 ; Ranke, History of the Papacy (see 
Index) ; New Amer. Cyclopccdia , viii, 563, 564 ; English 
Cyclopaedia, s. v. ; Chambers, Cyclop, s. v. (J. W. M.) 

Gulf (\ct(Tpa, a chasm), an opening or impassable 
space, such as is represented to exist between Elysium 
and Tartarus (Luke xvi, 26). See Hades. 

Gulich or Gulichius, Abraiiam van, was born 
at Heusden about 1642. After studying at Nimegnert 
! and the University of Leyden, he was appointed pro- 
I fessor extraordinary of theology at Nimeguen, Jan. 17, 
1667. Near the close of the same year he became or- 
dinary professor of philosophy and eloquence, and ex- 
traordinary of theology, in the gymnasium of that 
place. In 1679 he was appointed professor of the Car- 
tesian philosophy in the University of Franeker. lie 
died Dee. 31 of the same year. While at Ham he 
published a philosophical, work entitled Dispntaiiones 
philosophic ce. His theological works are, (1) Tluolo- 
gia Prophetica (Amsterd. 1G75-94, 2 vols. ; to the first 
volume is appended a treatise on Hermeneutics, enti- 
tled Hermeneutica Sacra bipartita ) : — (2) Lilrorum 
Prophcticorum 17 1. et N. Test, compendium et analysis 
(Amst. 1694). See Gesckudenis der Nederlandsche Her - 
I'ormde Kerb door A. Ypeij en J. Derviont, D. ii; Gla- 
sius, Godgelcerd Nederland, D. i ; also J. Sehotanus 
Sterringa, Oraiio funebris in obitum A. Gulichii. (J. 
P.W.) 

Gulielmus. See William. . 

Guiloth (T^Z, fountains ; Sept. FwXa3' and Xt'rpw- 
1 <r<c,Vulg. irrignum ; Eng. Vers, ‘‘springs”), the name 
of two plots given by Caleb to his daughter, at her 
special request, in addition to her dower (Josh, xv, 18; 
Judg. i, 35); from which passages it may he. inferred 
that they were situated in the “south land” of Judah, 
and were so called from the copious supply of water in 
their vicinity. See Aciisah. The springs Were “ up- 
per” and “ lower” — possibly one at the top and the 
other at the bottom of a ravine or glen ; and they may 
have derived their unusual name from their appear- 
ance being different to that of the ordinary springs of 
the country. The root (5?:») has the force of rolling 
or tumbling over, and perhaps this may imply that 
they welled up in that bubbling manner which is not 
uncommon here, though apparently most rare in Pal- 
estine (Stanley, Palestine, Append. § 55). Dr. Rosen 
I ( Zeitsclir . der beutsch. Morg. Gesellsch. 1857, p. 50 sq.) 


GUNDULF 


1031 


GUNNING 


identifies these springs with the A in Nunkur and De- 
wir-Ban , spots along a beautiful green valley about 
one hour south-west of Hebron; and in this Stanley 
coincides ( Jewish Church, i, 293, n.). See Debir. 

Gundulf, founder of a sect in Arras and Liege in 
the 11th century. In the year 1025‘, Gerhard, bishop 
of Cambrai and Arras, caused the arrest of a number 
of persons charged with having propagated heretical 
doctrines in his diocese, and in various parts of the 
north of France. A synod was convoked at St. Mary’s 
church, in Arras, for their trial. Their rules command- 
ed them to forsake the world ; to bring into subjection 
their fleshly lusts and passions ; to support themselves 
by the work of their hands ; to wrong no one, and to 
evince love to all who felt inclined to adopt their mode 
of life. This confession, joined with their well-known 
practice of washing each other’s feet, led to the belief 
that they differed from other Christians only in a de- 
voted attachment, to the letter of Scripture. But 
Gerhard professed to know more of their rules than 
they acknowledged publicly. lie had caused himself, 
he says, to be initiated into their worship by some pros- 
elytes, and so learned all their tenets. They appear to 
have held the following principles : “ The holy Church 
is the community of the righteous, and is formed of per- 
sons’chosen by election. Admission into it is signified 
by the imposition of hands, after a confession of faith 
and taking certain vows. Besides the regular assem- 
blies in the church, there are prayer-meetings, in which 
the disciples wash each other's feet. The apostles and 
martyrs are to be venerated, but saint-worship is for- 
bidden. The fulfilment of the law constitutes right- 
eousness, which alone works salvation. Disobedience 
in the elect, and disregard of their professional vows, 
entail everlasting condemnation on them. Neither 
penitence nor conversion can afterwards avail them.” 
These people rejected the Roman Catholic Church, the 
supremacy of the bishop of Home, the respect shown 
to bishops, the whole hierarchical system, and even all 
clergy whatever. “ Dogmatic, liturgic, and constitu- 
tive traditions are worthless and of no account. All 
the sacraments of the Roman Catholic Church are re- 
jected, especially baptism and the Lord’s supper. The 
consecrated elements of the Lord’s supper are nothing 
more than what they appear to our senses. At the 
last supper, Christ did not really give his disciples his 
body for food and his blood for drink. Marriage and 
all sexual intercourse are to be avoided. Churches 
are not holy, hence worship does not derive any special 
virtue from its being held in them. The altar is but a 
heap of stones. Fumigations and the ringing of bells 
are useless ceremonies. Crosses, crucifixes, images, 
etc., tend to idolatry.” 

Bishop Gerhard charged the Cundulfians with hold- 
ing these and similar opinions, but they refused to ac- 
knowledge them. They attempted .only to defend their 
views regarding baptism, but finally* announced that 
they were ready to recant their errors. Then the bish- 
op and other members of the clergy solemnly con- 
demned the heresy, excommunicated its originators in 
case they did not repent, and made the prisoners sign 
a Roman Catholic statement of the doctrines on which 
they had held heretical opinions, translated from Latin 
into the vernacular; after which the prisoners were 
released and the synod closed. Gerhard sent a copy 
of its acts to the bishop of Liege, who applied him- 
self also with great zeal to the suppression of the here- 
sy. These acts, which are the only source from which 
the details of this affair can be obtained, are to be 
found in D’Achery’s Spicilegium (2d edit., i, 607-624), 
and in Mansi’s Concilia (xix, 423 sq.). Still they 
give no information as to the rise and development of 
this party, nor on its relation to those which arose 
before and after it in the same and neighboring dis- 
tricts. Gundulf appears to have made northern France 
the exclusive field of his exertions, and it was prob- 
ably there he had made the converts which were 


afterwards arrested at Arras. Ilis connection with 
them was probably an imitation of Christ’s connection 
with liis disciples ; they called him tiie Master, and, as 
already stated, considered the imitation of the apostles 
as their highest aim. Gundulf may have been him- 
self a working man who went to that country because 
the trades, and especially that of weaver, were in a 
prosperous condition there. Once there, he probably 
found a body of disciples among his fellow-workmen, 
whom he instructed in his principles, and whom he af- 
terwards sent as travelling workmen to propagate his 
views in their own districts. Of the end of Gundulf s 
career nothing is known. The period of his greatest ac- 
tivity was probably already over in 1025. As we see no 
mention of search for him having been made order 
either of Gerhard or of the bishop of Liege, although 
his disciples had proclaimed him as their chief, it is 
probable that he was out of the reach of both, and 
had perhaps been already removed by death. We have 
no further information as to what became of the sect 
afterwards, and, at any rate, it continued, if at all, in 
secret. Similar sects have existed at all times in the 
bosom of the Romish Church, and they are generally 
found to represent vital piety as opposed to the corrupt- 
ed Christianity of Rome. See Ilahn, Gesch. d. Ketzer 
ini Mittelalter , pt. i, p. 39 sq. ; Herzog, Iieal-Eneykl. v, 
414 sq. ; Ncaiuler, Ch. History , iii, 597. 

Gu'ni (Heb. Guni to to, dyed [Gesen.] or protected 
[Fiirst] ; Sept. Tim, but in 1 Chron. vii, 13, roj'vvi, 
Vulg. Guni), the name of two men. 

1. One of the sons of Naphtali (B.C. ante 1856, but 
not necessarily born before the migration to Egypt) 
(Gen. xlvi, 24; Numb, xxvi, 48; 1 Chron. vii, 13). 
His descendants are called G unites (Numb, xxvi, 48). 

2. Father of Abdiel, and grandfather of Ahi, which 
last was chieftain of the Gileadite Gadites (1 Chron. 
v, 15). B.C. between 1093 and 782. 

Gu'nite (Hebrew with the art. hug- Guni', to toll, 
Sept. f> Turn'/, Vulg. G unite, A. Y. “the Gunitcs”), a 
general name of the descendants of Guni, of the tribe 
of Naphtali (Numb, xxvi, 48). 

Gunn, Walter, was born in Carlisle, Schoharie 
Co., N. Y., June 27, 1815. lie was graduated at Union 
College in 1840, and studied theology in the seminary 
at Gettysburg. He was licensed by the Hartwich 
Synod in 1842, and the following year was ordained as 
a missionary to foreign lands. He soon sailed for In- 
dia, where lie labored in faith, and with perseverance 
and success, among the Tulugoos until his death, which 
occurred at Guntoon July 8, 1857. Mr. Gunn was the 
first missionaryfrom the Lutheran Church in the United 
States who fell in the foreign field. lie exerted an 
influence in India which still lives. lie was a man 
of faith and love, a missionary in the highest sense, of 
whom the u world was not worthy.” (M. L. S.) 

Gunn, William, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Caswell Co., N. C., March 
13, 1797, and died at Lexington, Ivy., Sept. 3, 1853. 
He removed in early life to Tennessee with his father ; 
became, while a mere youth, an active member of the 
Church ; was licensed to preach before 21 years of 
age, and joined the itinerancy in 1819. He spent his 
subsequent life in ministerial labors, mainly in the 
state of Kentucky, filling with great acceptability and 
usefulness the positions of circuit and station preacher 
and presiding elder, and died in the full assurance of 
the faith lie preached to others and so beautifully ex- 
emplified in his life. Tie published, in connection with 
another minister, The Christian Psalmist (Louisville, 
Kentucky), and also another work, chiefly selections 
of the preceding, and entitled The. Christian Melodist . — 
Sprague, Annals of the Amev. Pulpit , vii, 622; Minutes 
of Con f of M. E. Church South. (J. W. M.) 

Gunning, Peter, D.D., an eminent English 
High-church bishop, was born at Hoo, in Kent, in the 


GUNPOWDER PLOT 


1032 


GUNPOWDER PLOT 


year 1G13, and was educated at Clare Hall, Cambridge. 
He became fellow and tutor of his college, and distin- 
guished himself as a preacher, but on account of his 
zeal for the king’s service he was ejected, and after- 
wards was made chaplain to Sir Robert Shirley, at 
whose death he obtained the chapel at Exeter House, 
Strand. At the Restoration his services were reward- 
ed; lie was created D.D. by the king’s mandate. He 
was one of the coadjutors selected by the bishops to 
maintain the Iligh-church cause at the Savoy Confer- 
ence (1GG1), and was the principal disputant with Bax- 
ter. lie had a Romanizing tendency, and advocated 
prayer for the dead. In 1GG9 he was made bishop of 
Chichester, and in 1G74 was translated to El} r , where 
he died in 1GS4. He wrote largely on the controver- 
sies of the time, and especially The Paschal or Lent 
Fast apostolical and perpetual, recently reprinted in the 
Library of A nglo-Cath. Theology (Oxford, 1845, Svo). — 
Hook, Feel. Blog. vol. v ; Neal, History of the Puritans , 
iii, 90, 1G8 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliographica , i, 1355. 

Gunpowder Plot, a conspiracy formed and ma- 
tured in the years 1604-5 by some English Romanists 
to blow up with gunpowder the Parliament House, and 
thus destroy at once the king, lords, and commons of 
England when assembled at the opening of Parlia- 
ment, with the hope of being able, during the result- 
ant confusion, to re-establish their faith in the king- 
dom, or, at least, avenge the oppressions and persecu- 
tion of its adherents. At the accession of Janies I to 
the throne, the Roman Catholics anticipated toleration, 
or, at all events, a great relaxation in the rigor of the 
penal laws against them, and were greatly exasperated 
on finding that not only were their hopes in this regard 
disappointed, but that increased severity was employ- 
ed towards them ; for James, when once firmly seated 
on his throne, in Feb. 1G04, “assured his council that 
‘he had never any intention of granting toleration to 
the Catholics;’ that he 'would fortify the laws against 
them, and cause them to be put into execution to the 
utmost.” The conceiver of the design of taking so in- 
discriminate and brutal a vengeance Avas Robert Cates- 
bv, of “ancient family and good estate,” who had once 
abjured and then returned again with increased ardor 
to his early faith. He made known his scheme first 
to Thomas Winter, “a gentleman of Worcestershire,” 
and next to John Wright, who belonged to a highly 
respectable Yorkshire family. According to the state- 
ment made in prison (Nov. 19, 1G05) by a fellow-con- 
spirator (Fawkes), “these three first devised the plot, 
and Avere the chief directors of all the particularities of 
it.” Winter refused his assent to the plan until an ef- 
fort had been made to obtain, through the mediation 
of Spain, toleration for the English Catholics by a 
clause to that effect in the treaty then negotiating be- 
tween England and Spain. He accordingly went to 
the Netherlands to further that object, where he learn- 
ed from the Spanish ambassador that it could not be 
accomplished. He, however, met at Ostend an old as- 
sociate, Guy Fawkes (q. A’.), and foreseeing in him an 
efficient coadjutor in Catesbv’s scheme, induced him to 
return with him to England without making known to 
Fawkes the particular nature of the plot. Fawkes, 
though not the projector or head, became by far the 
most notorious member of the conspiracy, and popular 
opinion long represented him as a low, cruel, and mer- 
cenary ruffian ; but he appears to have been by birth 
a gentleman, and of a nature chivalrously daring and 
unselfish, but thoroughly perverted by a blind fanati- 
cism, which led him to regard devotion to his own faith 
and its adherents as the essence of Christian virtues. 
Soon after the arrival of T. Winter and Fawkes in 
London, a meeting was held at Catesby’s lodgings, at 
which there were present the four already named and 
an additional member of the conspiracy, Thomas* Per- 
cy, a brother-in-law of John Wright, and “a distant re- 
lation of the earl of Northumberland.” These five, at 
Catesby's request, agreed to bind themselves to secre- 


I cy and fidelity by a solemn oath, which, a few days af- 
terwards, in a lonely house beyond St. Clement’s Inn, 
they took on their knees in the following words: “You 
swear by the blessed Trinity, and by the sacrament 
; you now propose to receive, never to disclose, directly 
or indirectly, by Avord or circumstance, the matter that 
shall be proposed to A r ou to keep secret, nor desist from 
the execution thereof until the rest shall give a*ou 
leave.” They then went into an adjoining room and 
received the holy sacrament from father Gerard, a Jes- 
uit priest, who Avas, it is said, ignorant of their horrid 
project. The particulars of the plot Avere then commu- 
nicated to Fawkes and Percy, and in furtherance of the 
plan then agreed on, Percy, Avhose position as a gentle- 
man pensioner would preAent any suspicion arising 
therefrom, rented of a Mr. Ferris, on May 24, 1G04, a 
house adjoining the Parliament buildings, the keys of 
which Avere given to FaAvkes, who Avas unknown in 
London, and Avho assumed the name of John Johnson, 
and the position of servant to Percy. They took a sec- 
ond oath of secrecy and fidelity to each other on taking 
possession of the house, but before their preparations 
Avere completed for beginning the work of mining 
through to the Parliament building, the meeting of 
Parliament Avas prorogued to Feb. 7, 1G05. They sep- 
arated to meet again in November, and, in the mean 
Avhilc, another house AA*as hired on the Lambeth side 
of the river, in which Avood, gunpowder, and other com- 
bustibles Avere placed, to be removed in small quanti- 
ties to the house hired of Peris. This Lambeth house 
aaris put in charge of Robert Kay, or Keyes, an indigent 
Catholic gentleman, Avho took the oath and became a 
member of the band. On a night in December, 1G04, 
the conspirators, having provided themselves' with tools 
and other necessaries, Avent zealously to work on the 
mine, FaAA'kes acting as sentinel. r lhe Avail separat- 
ing them from the Parliament House was found to be 
very thick, and more help Avas needed ; so Christopher 
Wright, a younger brother of John Wright, Avas taken 
in on oath, and Kay brought OA T er from Lambeth. The 
work was carried on zealously, the conspirators beguil- 
ing the labor Avith discussions of future plans. They 
agreed in the policy of proclaiming one of the royal 
j family in the place of James, and as the}’- supposed his 
! eldest son, prince Henry, Avould be present and perish 
I Avith his father in the Parliament House, Percy under- 
took to seize and carry off prince Charles as soon as 
the mine Avas exploded ; and, in default of Percy’s suc- 
cess, arrangements were made to carry off the princess 
Elizabeth, then near CoA-entry under the care of lord 
Harrington. “Horses and armor Avere to be collected 
in Warwickshire.” They failed, hoAvcA’er, in devising 
any safe plan for saving the lives of Roman Catholic 
members of Parliament. While the matter was thus 
progressing, FaAvkes reported the prorogation of Par- 
liament to Oct. 3, and they separated until after the 
Christmas holidays. In January, 1G05, John Grant, a 
Wanvieksbire gentleman, and Robert Winter, eldest 
brother of Thomas Winter, were admitted to the con- 
spiracA”, and shortly after them Thomas Bates, a ser- 
A*ant of Catesby, apd the only participant in the plot 
not of the rank of a gentleman. While going on Avith 
the work in Feb., 1505, they Avere alarmed by some 
noises, and FaAvkes, ayIio Avent out to ascertain the 
cause, reported that they Avere caused by the remOARil 
of a stock of coal from a cellar under the Parliament 
House, with the gratifying additional intelligence that 
the cellar was to be let. Percy straightway hired it, 
the Avork on the mine was abandoned, and the gunpoAA- 
der (3G bids.) Avas conveyed from its place of conceal- 
ment at Lambeth into this cellar, and covered up Avith 
stones, bits of iron, and fagots of Avood. All was ready 
in May, and the conspirators separated to aAvait the 
meeting of Parliament. Fawkes Avent to the Neth- 
erlands on a mission connected Avith the plot, but re- 
turned without much success in August. In Septem- 
ber, Sir Edward Baynham, “a gentleman of an ancient 


GUNPOWDER PLOT 


1033 


GUNPOWDER PLOT 


family in Gloucestershire,” was admitted into the plot 
and sent to Itome, not to reveal the project, but, oil its | 
consummation, to gain the favor of the Vatican by ex- 
plaining that its object was the re-establishment of 
Roman Catholicism in England. A further proroga- 
tion of Parliament to Nov. 5 having been made, the 
conspirators were led, in consequence of the repeated 
prorogations, to fear that their plot was suspected; but 
Thomas Winter’s examinations, made on the day of 
prorogation, served to reassure them. “ Catesby pur- 
chased horses, arms, and powder, and, under the pre- 
tence of making levies for the archduke of Flanders, 
assembled friends who might be armed in the country 
when the first blow was struck.” To obtain the re- 
quired means for these ends, three wealthy men -were 
admitted (on oath as the others) into the conspiracy, 
viz. Sir Everard Digby, of Rutlandshire, who promised 
to furnish £1500, and to collect his Roman Catholic 
friends on Dunsmore Heath, in Warwickshire, by Nov. 
5, as if for a hunting party; Ambrose Rookwood, of 
Suffolk, who owned a magnificent stud of horses ; and 
Francis Tresham, who “engaged to furnish £2000;” 
but Catesby mistrusted the latter, and sorely repented 
having intrusted his secret to him. As the 5th of 
November drew near, “it was resolved that Fawkes 
should fire the powder by means of a slow-burning 
match, which would allow him time to escape before 
the explosion” to a ship ready to proceed with him to 
Flanders; and that, in the event of their losing the 
prince of Wales and prince Charles, the princess Eliz- 
abeth should be proclaimed queen, and “a regent ap- 
pointed during her minority.” On another point they 
failed to harmonize so fully. Each conspirator had a 
friend or friends in Parliament whose safety he wished 
to secure, but to communicate the project to so many 
persons involved too great risk, “ and it was concluded 
that no express notice should be given them, but only 
such persuasion, upon general grounds, as might deter 
them from attending. Many of the conspirators were 
averse to this resolve, “and angry at its adoption; 
and Tresham in particular, for his sisters had married 
lords Stourton and Mounteagle.” On a refusal of 
Catesby and other leaders to allow him to notify di- 
rectly Mounteagle, it is said he hinted that the money 
promised by him would not lie forthcoming, and ceased 
to attend the meetings. It is probable lie warned 
Mounteagle, for this nobleman unexpectedly gave a 
supper, Oct. 26, ten days before the meeting of Parlia- 
ment, at a house at Iloxton which he had not lately 
occupied, and while seated at table a page brought him 
a letter, stating that he had received it in the street 
from a stranger, who urged its immediate delivery into 
Mounteagle’s hands. The letter warned Mounteagle 
not to attend the Parliament, and hinted at the plot, 
and was on the same evening shown by Mounteagle to 
several lords of the council, and on Oct. 31 shown to 
the king also. The conspirators suspected Tresham 
of having betrayed them, and accused him of it, but he 
stoutly denied it. They were now thoroughly alarm- 
ed ; some left London, and others concealed themselves; 
but Fawkes remained courageously at his post in the 
cellar, notwithstanding the hourly increasing intima- 
tion that the plot was known to government. On the 
evening of Nov. 4 the lord chamberlain visited the cel- 
lar, saw Fawkes there, and, noticing the piles of fag- 
ots, said to him, “ Your master has laid in a good sup- 
ply of fuel.” After informing Percy of this ominous 
circumstance, Fawkes returned to his post, where he 
was arrested about 2 o’clock on the morning of Nov. 5 
by a company of soldiers under Sir Thomas Ivnevet, a 
Westminster magistrate, who had orders to search the 
houses and cellars in the neighborhood . On Fawkes’s 
person was found a watch (then an uncommon thing), 
some slow matches, some tinder and touchwood, and 
behind the cellar door a dark lantern with a light burn- 
ing. They removed the wood, etc., and discovered the 
gunpowder also. Fawkes was taken before the king 


and council, where he boldly avowed his purpose, only 
expressing regret for its failure, and, in reply to the 
king’s inquiry “how he could have the heart to destroy 
his children and so many innocent souls,” said, “ Dan- 
gerous diseases require desperate remedies.” He ut- 
terly refused to name his accomplices, and neither 
temptations nor tortures, whose horrible severity is 
shown by the contrast in his signatures on the 8th and 
10th of November, could induce him to implicate oth- 
ers further than their own actions had already done, 
while at no time would he admit the complicity of sus- 
pected Jesuit priests, refusing to plead guilty on his tri- 
al because the indictment contained averments impli- 
cating them. F"or the connection of the Jesuits with 
this conspiracy, see Garnet; Jesuits; and the au- 
thorities given at the end of this article. 

Catesby and John Wright had departed for Dun- 
church before Fawkes’s arrest, and the other conspir- 
ators, except Tresham, fled from London after that 
event. They met at Ashby Ledgers, and resolved to 
take up arms, and endeavor to excite to rebellion the 
Roman Catholics in Warwickshire, Worcestershire, 
Staffordshire, and Wales; but their failure was com- 
plete, and their efforts, only served to point them out 
as members of the conspiracy. They were pursued 
the king’s troops, and at Holbeach the two Wrights, 
Percy, and Catesby were killed, and Rookwood and 
Thomas Winter wounded in a conflict with the troops. 
The others were soon captured. Tresham died in the 
Tower of disease; the remaining seven, viz., Digby, 
Robert and Thomas Winter, Rookwood, Grant, Fawkes, 
Kay, and Bates, were tried on the 27th January, 1606, 
and executed on the 30th and 31st of that month. This 
diabolical plot reacted fearfully against the Romanists, 
and its memory is still a bulwark of Protestant feeling 
in England. The revolting atrocity of the deed pur- 
posed by these misguided men must ever excite horror 
and reprobation; but we may hope that candid minds 
in this more tolerant age, while judging them, will con- 
demn also both the teachings which bred such fanati- 
cism, and the spirit of persecution which aroused it to 
action. 

The 5th of November, in commemoration of this plot, 
is called Guy Fawkes’s Day, and until recently a spe- 
cial service for it was found in the ritual of the English 
Church. It was made a holiday by act of Parliament 
in 1606, and is still kept as such in England, especially 
by the juveniles. The following account of the cus- 
toms pertaining thereto is abridged from Chambers, 
Booh of Days, ii, 549-50. The mode of observance 
throughout England is the dressing up of a scarecrow 
figure in cast-off clothing (with a paper cap, painted 
and knotted with paper strips, imitating ribbons), pa- 
rading it in a chair through the streets, and at night 
burning it in a bonfire. The image represents Guy 
Fawkes, and, consequently, carries a dark lantern in 
one hand and matches in the other. The procession 
visits the houses in the neighborhood, repeating the 
time-honored rhyme — 

u Remember, remember. 

The fifth of November, 

The gunpowder treason and plot; 

There is no reason 
Why the gunpowder treason 
Should ever be forgot !” 

Numerous variations of the above rhyme are used: for 
example, at lslip, the following: 

“The fifth of November, 

Since I can remember. 

Gunpowder treason and plot; 

This is the day that God did prevent, 

To blow up his king and Parliament. 

A stick and a stake, 

For Victoria’s sake; 

If you won’t give me oue, 

I’ll take two; 

The better for me, 

And the worse for you !” 

It is an invariable custom on these occasions to solic- 


GUNTHER 


1034 


GURLEY 


it money from the passers-by in the formula Pray 
remember Guy!” “Please to remember Guv!” or, 
“Please to remember the bonfire!” 

In former times the burning of Guy Fawkes’s effigy 
was in London a most important ceremony. Two hun- 
dred cart-loads of fuel were sometimes consumed in the 
bonfire in Lincoln’s Inn Fields, and thirty Guys would 
be gibbeted and then cast into the fire. Another im- 
mense pile was heaped up in the Clare Market bv the 
butchers, who the same evening paraded the streets 
•with the accompaniment of the famed “ marrow-bone- 
and-cleaver” music. The uproar occasioned by the 
shouts of the mob, the ringing of the church bells, and 
the general confusion can be only faintly imagined at 
the present day. — Jardine, British Criminal Trials (Li- 
brary of Entertaining Knowledge), vol. ii; Pictorial 
Hist, of England, iii, 20-32 (Chambers’s ed.); Knight, 
Popular Hist, of England , iii, 321-37 ; ibid., Old England , 
ii. 151 -G2; Chambers, Booh of Bays , ii, 546-50; llume, 
Jlist. of England , vol. iv ; Chambers, Cyclopedia , s. v. 
See Fawkes. (J. W. M.) 

Gunther, Anton, a prominent Roman Catholic 
philosopher of modern times, was horn Nov. 17, 1735, 
at Lindenau, in Bohemia. He studied philosophy and 
law at the University of Prague, was for several years 
tutor in the family of prince Bretzenheim, and took 
priestly orders in 1820. lie was then for several years 
vice-director of philosophical studies at the University 
of Vienna. The professorship of philosophy, for which 
lie was a candidate at the earnest solicitation of his 
friends, he did not obtain, in consequence of the efforts 
made by the opponents of his philosophical views. 
The life-work of Giinther was to attempt, in opposition 
to the prevailing philosophical systems, which he re- 
garded as more or less unchristian, the establishment 
of a thoroughly Christian philosophy. He desired to 
show that the teachings of divine revelation, being the 
absolute truth, need not only not to shun the light of 
reason, but that, on the contrary, reason itself will 
lead the sound thinker to an acceptance of the Chris- 
tian philosophy, which he thought had found its most 
complete expression in the Roman Catholic doctrine. 
The first work of Gunther was the Yorschule zur spe- 
cnlatkcn Theologie (Vienna, 1828; 2d enlarged edition 
1846), which contained the theory of creation; and it 
was followed in 1823 by the theory of the incarnation. 
These works at once established for him the reputation 
of being one of the foremost philosophers of the Roman 
Catholic Church. The University of Munich confer- 
red upon him the title of Doctor Philosojdm ?, which, 
however, the illiberal government of Austria did not 
allow him to use. Gunther, who lived in great retire- 
ment, continued to publish a series of philosophical 
works, namely. Peregrin's Gastmahl (Vienna, 1830): — 
8 it (Lund Xord’ichter (1832) : — Januskopfe far Philoso- 
phic mid Theologie (published by him conjointly with 
his friend Dr. Papst, Vienna, 1833): — Der letzte Sym- 
holiker (with special reference to the works of Mdhler 
and Banr, 1 *04) : — Thomas a Bcrvpulis: zur Transfi- 
guration der Pc rsiin l> eh kei tspan th eismen neuester Zeit 
(1835) : — Die Jusie-M'dieus in der deutschen Philosophic 
der gegeiarartigni Zeit (1837): — Euristheus mid Hera- 
cles (1842). He also published from 1848 to 1854, con- 
jointly with his friend Dr. Veitli, a philosophical an- 
nual entitled Lydia. In none of his works did he un- 
dertake to develop a philosophical system as a whole, 
but lie contributed ample material lor a new system, 
lie was, in particular, acknowledged as one of tlie keen- 
est and most powerful opponents of the pantheistic 
schools, and lie found many adherents among the Ro- 
man Catholic theologians and scholars of Germany. 
The “Gunthcrian philosophy” (Giinthcrsche Philoso- 
phic) came to establish itself at many of the Roman 
Catholic universities, and for a time shared, with the 
school of llcrmes (q. v.) the Control of philosophical 
studies and learning in Catholic Germany. To the 
Jesuits and the ultramontane school, the school of 


Gunther was as obnoxious as that of Hermes. Ilia 
philosophical treatment of the Christian doctrines was 
regarded by many as derogatory to the belief in them, 
lie also gave great offence by daring to criticise high 
authorities, as Thomas of Aquinas. Still greater dis- 
satisfaction was created by his dualistic theory con- 
cerning mind and body, llis works wcic denounced 
in Rome. On Jan. 8, 1857, all his works were put on 
the Index of prohibited works, and on June 15 a brief 
of the pope appeared charging him with errors in the 
doctrine of the Trinity, of Christology and Anthropol- 
ogy, and an over-estimation of the powers of reason. 
Giinther, and with him most of his adherents, sub- 
mitted to the papal censure Feb, 20, 1857. Gunther 
himself was deeply affected by this humiliation, and 
expressed the hope that his philosophy might be sup- 
planted by something better, lie died Feb. 24, 1863. 
See Clemens [an ultramontane opponent of Gunther], 
Die speculative Theologie Gunthers (Coin, 1853). (A. 

J.S.) 

Guphta. See Jotapata. 

Gur (lleb. id. a whelp , fully Ma- 

aleii'-Gmp, i. e. ascent of the whelp; Sept, y ctvdfia- 
mg Eoi'p.Vulg. ascensus Gaiter; Eng. Vers, “the go- 
ing up to Gur”), a place or elevated ground in the im- 
mediate vicinity of (“2) lbleam, on the road from 
Jczreel to Beth-hag-Gan, where Jehu’s servants over- 
took and mortally wounded the flying king Ahaziak 
(2 Kings ix, 27). B.C. 883. It is, perhaps, the little 
knoll marked on A"an de Velde’s Map about midway 
between Zenin and Jelameh. See Ibleam ; Guk- 
Baal. 

Gur. See Whelp. 

Gur-ba'al (Heb. id. sojourn of Baal ; 

Sept. TTsrpa, Vulg. GarlaaV), a place in Arabia, suc- 
cessfully attacked by Uzziah (B.C. 803) (2 Chron. 
xxvi, 7); hence on the confines of Judaea; probably 
so called from having a temple of Baal. From the 
rendering of the Sept., Calmet infers that it was in 
Arabia Petrrea. Arabian geographers mention a place 
called Baal on the Syrian road, north of El-Medineh 
(Marasid) s. v.). The Targum reads “Arabs living 
in Gerar ” — suggesting T15 instead of Sec Ge- 

rar. The ingenious conjectures of Bochart ( Phalcg , 
ii, 22) respecting the Mehunim, who are mentioned to- 
gether with the “Arabians that dwelt in Gur-Baal,” 
may be considered as corroborating this identification 
(compare 1 Chron. iv, 39 sq. ; see Ewald, Isr. Gesch. i, 
322). See Mehunim. 

Gurgoyle. See Gargoyle. 

Gurley, Piiineas Densjiore, D.D., an eminent 
Presbyterian minister, was born Nov. 12, 1816. at Ham- 
ilton, Madison County, N. Y., and died Sept. 30, 1868, 
in Washington, D. C. During his infancy bis parents 
removed to Parish ville, St. Lawrence County, N. Y., 
where, at the ago of fifteen, he joined the Presbyterian 
Church, and soon after entered Union College, where 
he graduated in 1837 with the highest honors of his 
class. The same year he entered the Theological 
Seminary at Princeton, N. J., and graduated there in 
Sept. 1840, having been licensed to preach the April 
preceding at Cold Spring, N. Y. lie accepted straight- 
way a call to the First Presbyterian Church of Indian- 
apolis, Bid., from which a strong minority had sepa- 
rated and organized a second church (New School), 
with the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher as pastor. In 
this placebo labored for nine years with great success, 
the church being blessed with revivals and largely 
increased numbers ; but in 1850, for the benefit of the 
health of his family, he removed to Dayton, Ohio, 
where for four years a like success attended his minis- 
try as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in that 
city. In 1854, yielding to the wishes of his brethren, 
he accepted the pastorate of the F-street Presbyterian 


GURNALL 


1035 


GURY 


Church in Washington, D. C., with which, in 1850, the 
Second Presbyterian Church of that city united, and 
Dr. Gurley remained until his death pastor of the 
united body, worshipping in a new edifice, and called 
the New York Avenue Church. He was elected chap- 
lain to the United States Senate in 1859, and was the 
pastor of several presidents of the United States, among 
them of Mr. Lincoln, during the sad but exciting scenes 
of whose dying moments he was present. The follow- 
ing incident which then occurred illustrates forcibly 
the spirit and power of his Gospel ministrations. When 
the patriot president had ceased to breathe, Mr. Stan- 
ton, secretary of war, turning to Dr. Gurley, said, 
“ Doctor, wi 11 you say something?” After a brief 
pause, Dr. Gurley, addressing the weeping relatives 
and sympathizing friends, replied, “ Let us talk with 
God and, kneeling, offered “a most touching and im- 
pressive prayer, which even in that dark hour of gloom 
lighted up with sunshine every sorrowing heart.” Dr. 
Gurley was a member of the General Assembly (Old 
School) in 18GG, and chairman of its judicial commit- 
tee ; was made' moderator of the General Assembly 
held in 18G7, was chosen a member of the' committee 
of fifteen appointed to confer with a like committee of 
the New-School Assembly on the subject of a reunion 
of the two Presbyterian bodies in the United States, 
and “was the author of the amendments to the basis 
of union adopted by the joint committee in Philadel- 
phia, and subsequently adopted by both assemblies.” 
His health failed in 18G7, and, after vainly seeking its 
restoration in rest and change of scene, lie returned to 
die among his people. Great earnestness and single- 
ness of purpose, with an ever-active zeal for the glory 
of God and the salvation of souls, characterized his 
life. See Memorial Sermon on Dr. Gurley by W. E. 
Schcnck, D.D. (Washington, D. C., 18G0), and New 
York Observer , Oct. 8, 18G8. (J. W. M.) 

Gumall, William, an English divine, and a “man 
of great excellence of character,” was born in 1G17, 
was educated at Emanuel College, Cambridge, and was 
minister at Lavenham for 35 years. lie becams a rec- 
tor in lGi-1, but did not receive episcopal ordination un- 
til the Restoration. He published a volume of Sermons 
(16G0, 4to). but is best known as the author of The 
Christian in complete Armor (1st ed. 1G5G-1GG2, 3 vols. 
4to ; new cd. 1844, 1 vol. 8vo), of which an edition, with 
a biographical introduction by the Rev. J. C. Ryle, was 
published in 18G5 (Lond. 2 vols. imp. 8vo). This work 
is described by Dr. E. Williams ( Christian Preacher ) 
as “ full of allusions to scriptural facts and figures of 
speech, generally well supported; sanctified wit, holy 
fire, deep experience, and most animated practical ap- 
plications.” Gnrnall died in 1G79. See Biographical 
Introduction by Ryle in the edition last named above, 
and Allibonc, Diet, of Authors, i, 749. (J. W. M.) 

Gurney, Joseph John, an eminent minister of 
the Gospel, Christian philanthropist, and theological 
writer, was born at Earlham Hall, near Norwich, Eng- 
land, Aug. 2, 1788. The family of Gurney, or Gour- 
nay. sprang from a house of Norman barons who fol- 
lowed William the Conqueror into England. Such 
was his reputation for wisdom, discrimination, and 
sound scholarship, that lord Morpeth, when in Phila- 
delphia, used to say, “Mr. Gurney is authority upon 
any subject in London.” Although his family for two 
centuries deservedly wielded great influence in Nor- 
folk, his large reputation is based upon his individual 
character and merits. In earl}' manhood he dedicated 
himself to the service of his divine Redeemer, and 
made an open Christian confession as a member of the 
religious Socict} r of Friends, in which Church he be- 
came an illustrious minister, being instrumental in 
winning many souls to Christ in Great Britain and 
Ireland. In the love of the Gospel, he made three 
missionary visits to the continent of Europe, and spent 
three years (1837-40) in North America and the West 


India Islands, preaching Christ with powerful demon- 
stration of the Spirit. lie often joined his sister, the 
celebrated and excellent Elizabeth Fry, in labors in 
the British prisons. The apostolic character of his 
preaching is shown in the volume of sermons and pray- 
ers delivered in Philadelphia in the winter of 1838, and 
taken in short-hand by Edward Hopper, Esq, Pos- 
sessed of great wealth, he was a faithful steward, and 
his large-hearted and well-directed benevolence was 
“like the dew, with silent, genial power, felt in the 
bloom it leaves along the meads.” He was the asso- 
ciate of Clarkson, Wilberforce, his brother-in-law, Sir 
T. Fowell Buxton, and others, in the successful efforts 
for the abolition of slavery; and he was never known 
to be silent or unsympathizing when others needed his 
voice or his purse. Eminent as were his gifts and ac- 
quirements, his simplicity of character and humility, 
and, more than all, his conformity to the will of Christ, 
made him the sweet and willing minister and servant 
of all. In this capacit}' he served his generation ac- 
cording to the will of God. In his Christian authorship, 
his influence for good will extend to successive genera- 
tions. His principal writings are as follows : Observa- 
tions on the distinguishing 1 lews of the Society of Friends 
(this is a standard book — the seventh edition, contain- 
ing the author’s latest revisions, and an introductory 
treatise of great value, should supersede former edi- 
tions ): — Essays on Christianity: — Biblical Notes on the 
Deity of Christ (an illustration of the texts relating 
to this subject ): — Essays on the habitual Exercise of 
Love to God as a Preparation for Heaven : — A Letter to 
a Friend on the Doctrine of Redemption : — Hints on the 
portable Evidences of Christianity : — Brief Remarks on 
the History , Authority , and Use of the Sabbath: — Guide 
to the Instruction of young Persons in the holy Scrip- 
tures: — On the moral Character of our Lord Jesus 
didst : — Christianity a Religion of Motives: — An Ac- 
count of John Stratford: — An Address to the Mechan- 
ics of Manchester : — The Accordance of geological Dis- 
covery with natural and revealed Religion : — Familiar 
Sketches of the late William Wilberforce : — Chalmeria- 
na: — Sabbatical Verses , and other Poems: — A Winter 
in the 1 ) r est Indies : — A Journey in North America , de- 
scribed in familiar Letters to Amelia Opie: — Thoughts 
on Habit and Discipline ; — Terms of Union in the Bible 
Society : — Puseyism traced to its Root : — Notes on Pris- 
ons and Prison Discipline , etc. Ilis last publication 
was an admirable and Christian declaration of his 
faith. In him was illustrated the Scripture, “ The 
path of the just is as a shining light, which shineth 
more and more unto the perfect day.” He fell asleep 
in Jesus Jan. 4, 1847. See Memorial issued by Lon- 
don Yearly Meeting; J. B. Braitlnvaite, Memoirs of J. 
J. Gurney ,' with Selections from his Journal and Corre- 
spondence (Norwich, 2 vols. 8vo); Iloefcr, Now. Biog. 
Generate, xxii, 854 ; Allibone, Diet, of A uthors , i, 750. 
(W. J. A.) 

Gurtlerus. See Guertler. 

Gury, Joseph Pierre, a Roman Catholic theolo- 
gian, whose works on moral theology have obtained a 
great notoriet} 7 by the many offensive doctrines which 
he defends. He was born Jan. 23, 1801, entered in 
1824 the Society of Jesus, became professor of moral 
theology at Vais, in France, and died April 18, 18GG, 
at Mercceur, in the Auvergne. He wrote a Compen- 
dium Theologim moralis (4th ed. Eatisbon, 18G8 ; Ger- 
man translation, Eatisbon, 18G9), and Casus Conscien- 
tiec in preecipuas qumstiones Tlieologiai moralis (Eatis- 
bon, 18G5). Both works have passed through a large 
number of editions in France and other countries, and 
have been introduced as text-books into a number of 
ecclesiastical seminaries. In the Diet of the grand- 
duchy of Ilesse-Darmstadt, the government was in 1869 
attacked by the Liberal party for allowing the Roman 
Catholic bishop of Mentz to introduce this work into 
the diocesan seminary, on the ground that it teaches, 


GUSII-CIIALAB 


1036 GUSTAVUS-ADOLPH. SOCIETY 


in many cases, disobedience to the government, and 
principles incompatible with a civilized form of gov- 
ernment. See Linss, Das Ilandbuch (Jury's und die 
christliche Ethik (Frieberg, 1869). (A. J. S.) 

Gusli-Chalab. Sec Cisciiala. 

Gustavus I, Vasa, the first Protestant king of 
Sweden, was born at Lindkolm, Sweden, May 12, 1496. 
He descended, both on the paternal and maternal side, 
from noble Swedish families, and his original name 
was Gustavus Ericsson , since he was the son of the 
councillor Eric Johansson. From 1512 he was educated 
for a statesman at the court of the Swedish adminis- 
trator, Sten Sture. In 1516 and 1517 he took an act- 
ive part in the war against the Danes, but was treach- 
erously made a prisoner by the Danish king, Christian 
II, and carried to Denmark. lie escaped in Septem- 
ber, 1519, landed in Sweden in May, 1520, aroused the 
peasants of Dalecarlia to a revolt against the Danish 
rule, and was proclaimed by them head of their own 
and other communes of Sweden. The forcible abdi- 
cation of Christian 1 1 put an end to the Scandinavian 
union, and the Swedish Diet of Strengmiss proclaim- 
ed Gustavus as king. Being a decided adherent of 
the Reformation of Luther with whom he carried on 
a correspondence, Gustavus declined to be crowned by 
the hands of the Roman Catholic bishops, and post- 
poned his coronation, which did not take place until 
1528. In 1530 lie formally joined the Lutheran Church, 1 
the cause of which he promoted with great eagerness, 
and even severity, crippling the power of the Roman 
Catholic clergy by enormous imposts and finally 
(1544) forcing the Lutheran doctrines upon all his 
subjects. Like many other Protestant princes of that 
time, he arrogated to himself an undue influence upon 
the Church, assuming in 1540 the highest authority in 
ecclesiastical matters, -and thus burdening Sweden 
with the. pernicious system of an oppressive and even 
intolerant statc-churchism. By an act of the Diet of 
AVesteras the crown was declared hereditary in his 
male descendants. On the whole, Gustavus was one 
of the best and wisest princes of his time. “He had 
found Sweden a wilderness, devoid of all cultivation, 
and a prey to the turbulence of the people and the ra- 
pacity of the nobles ; and, after forty years’ rule, he 
left it a peaceful and civilizad realm, with a full ex- 
chequer, and a well-organized army of 15,000 men, 
and a good fleet, which were both his creations. lie 
promoted trade at home and abroad. Every profes- 
sion and trade received his attention and fostering 
care, and schools and colleges owed their revival, af- 
ter the decay of the older Roman Catholic institutions, 
to him. lie made commercial treaties with foreign 
nations, and established fairs for foreign traders. In 
his reign roads and bridges were made in every part 
of the country, and canals begun, one of which has 
only recently been brought to completion. In his re- 
lations with his subjects Gustavus was firm, and some- 
times severe, hut seldom unjust, except in his dealings 
towards the Romish clergy, whom he despoiled with 
something like rapacity of all their lands and funds. 
To him the various tribes of Lapps were indebted for 
the diffusion of Christianity among them by Lutheran 
missionaries, while the Finns owed to him the first 
works of instruction, Bibles and hymn-books printed 
in their own language. Gustavus was methodical, 
just, moral, and abstemious in his mode of life; an 
able administrator; and, with the exception of a ten- 
dency to avarice, possessed few qualities that are un- 
worthv of esteem” (Chambers, Cyclopaedia'). He died 
Sept. 29, 1560. (A. J. S.) 

Gustavus II, Adolphus, king of Sweden, was 
the grandson of Gustavus 1 (q. v.) by his youngest 
son, Charles IX, at whose death he succeeded to the 
throne of Sweden. Gustavus, wlio had been* strictly 
brought up in the Lutheran faith, had at first to queil 
some disorders at home, arising from the disputed suc- 


cession of his father (third son of Gustavus Yasa), who 
had been elected king on the exclusion of his nephew 
Sigismund, king of Poland (son of John III, the sec- 
ond son of Gustavus Vasa), whose profession of the 
Roman Catholic religion made him obnoxious to the 
Swedish people, and virtually annulled his claims to 
the crown. He reconciled the Estates by making 
them many concessions, ended the war with Denmark, 
in 1612, unsuccessfully, but obtained from the Czar in 
1617, by virtue of the treaty of Stolbowa, several 
places, and renounced all claims to Livonia. The 
numerous exiles who, during the reign of his father, 
had fled to Poland, were permitted to return, and thus 
he thwarted the intrigues of the Polish king Sigis- 
mund. In 1620 he built Gothenburg anew, and found- 
ed or renewed sixteen other towns. He was eagerly 
intent upon enlarging the powers of the sovereign by 
reducing those of the Estates. In 1621 he was in- 
volved in a war with Poland, and gained Livonia and 
Courland, and carried the war into Prussia. Several 
revolts in Sweden, which broke out in consequence of 
the heavy taxes, were promptly quelled. In the sum- 
mer of the year 1630 he went to Germany with an 
army of about 15,000 men to support the Protestants 
in the war against the emperor, having remitted the 
charge of the government and the care of his infant 
daughter Christina to his chancellor Oxenstiern. Af- 
ter carrying on the war triumphantly for two years 
[see Thirty Years’ War], he fell at Liitzen, Nov. 
6, 1632. Although Gustavus was eminently a war- 
like king, he made many salutary changes in the in- 
ternal administration of his country, and devoted his 
short intervals of peace to the promotion of commerce 
and manufactures. He was pre-eminently religious, 
and his success in battle is perhaps to be ascribed not 
only to a better mode of warfare, and the stricter dis- 
cipline which he enforced, but also still more to the 
moral influence which his deep-seated piety and his 
personal character inspired among his soldiers. The 
spot where he fell on the field of Liitzen was long 
markedly the Schwedenstein , or Swede's Stone, erect- 
ed by his servant, Jacob Ericsson, on the night after 
the battle. Its place has now been taken by a noble 
monument erected t^ his memory by the German peo- 
ple on the occasion of the second centenary of the bat- 
tle held in 1832 Other monuments were erected be- 
tween Coswig and Goertz (1840), and at Bremen (1853). 
A statue made by logelberg was set up at Gothen- 
burg in 1854. In 1832 Protestant Germany establish- 
ed in his honor an association for the support of poor 
Protestant congregations. See Gustavus Adolphus 
Society'. Biographies have been written, among 
others, by Rango (Lpz. 1824), Sparfeld (Lpz. 1844), 
Gfrorer (3d ed. Stuttg 1852), Freyxell (Germ, trails!. 
Lpz. 1852), Helbig (Lpz. 1854), Flathe ( Gustav Adolf 
u. der dveus’njdhr. Krug , Dresd. 1840 sq., 4 vols.), H. 
W. Thiersch (Nordlingen, 1868)- and Droysen (vol. i, 
Leips. 1869). (A. J. S.) 

Gustavus-Adolphus Society ( Gustav-Adolf - 
Vereiri ), a union of members of the Evangelical Pro- 
testant Church of Germany *or the support of their 
persecuted or suffering brethren in the faith. It orig- 
inated as follows. On the occasion of the second sec- 
ular anniversary of the battle of Liitzen (won by 
Gustavus Adolplms [q. v.] at the cost of bis life, Nov. 
6, 1632), held in that city Nov. 6, 1832, Scliild, a mer- 
chant of Leipzig, proposed that a memorial should be 
erected to the champion of Protestantism. By the in- 
fluence of Dr. Grossmann it was afterwards resolved 
that, instead of a monument of stone or brass, an insti- 
tution should be formed in honor of the Protestant hero, 
having for its object the succor of the Protestant com- 
munities suffering from persecution in Roman Catholic 
countries. An association was soon formed at Dres- 
den and another in Leipzig, and the two were united 
in 1834. The society thus formed was very popular 
in Saxony and Sweden. Its funds were chiefly the 


GUTHRIE 


GUSTAVUS-ADOLPH. SOCIETY 1037 


fruit of house and church collections. On the anni- 
versary of the Reformation in 1841, Dr. Zimmermann, 
of Darmstadt, issued an appeal to Protestants through- 
out the world to unite in forming an association for the 
support of such Protestant communities as required 
and were worthy of help. In order to effect this, and 
to incorporate in it the Leipzig and Dresden associa- 
tions, a preparatory meeting was held at Leipzig Sept. 
16, 1842, and “ The Evangelical Society cfthe Gustavus- 
Adofphus Institution ” was formed. A general assem- 
bly was held at Frankfort Sept. 21 and 22, 1843, in 
which twenty-nine societies were represented. 

According to the rules adopted at this meeting, the 
object of the association is to succor all Protestants, 
either in hr out of Germany, who stand in need of help, 
he they members of the Lutheran, Reformed, or Union 
churches, or any other who have given proofs of their 
adherence to the principles of the evangelical Church. 
The means are furnished partly by the income of the 
permanent funds of the association, partly by dona- 
tions, endowments, yearly collections, etc. The local 
societies send to the superior association their annual 
collections. In ever}’- state (and for large countries 
in every province) there is a chief association, with 
which the others are connected as auxiliaries. The 
receipts are divided into three parts : one third is un- 
der the absolute control of the society which collects 
it ; one third is sent to the central society, with direc- 
tions as to the application of it, or is even sent direct 
to its destination ; and the remaining third is placed at 
the disposal of the central society. The central asso- 
ciation consists of twenty-four members, elected by the 
members of the chief associations ; nine of them (in- 
cluding the president, treasurer, and cashier) must be 
residents at Leipzig, the other fifteen must be non-res- 
idents; every three years one third of the members 
go out of office. This central associaton represents 
the whole union, manages the general fund, and, when 
occasion presents, appoints a committee to inquire into 
the case of parties applying for assistance, and reports 
on it to the chief associations. In the general assem- 
blies, which are held in different parts of Germany, 
the state of the association is discussed, the accounts 
adjusted, questions of general interest settled, etc. In 
1846 there were thirty-nine chief associations, viz. 
eight in Prussia, two in Saxony, three in Hanover, 
and in the other states each one, except in Bavaria. 
The government of Bavaria, on Feb. 10, 1844, forbade 
the formation of branch associations, as well as the re- 
ception of gifts from the society ; but this prohibition 
was annulled Sept. 16, 1849, and representatives of 
Bavaria appeared at the general assembly of 1851. 
Austria permitted the establishment of societies by the 
“ Protcstantenpatent” of April 8, 1851. At the gen- 
eral assembly held at Nuremberg in 1862, two central 
societies ( Ilaiiptvereine ) of Austria, Vienna and Medi- 
asch, were received, the first embracing the German 
provinces and Gallicia, and the latter the German part 
of Transylvania. The organs of the association are 
the Bote tier Ecangelischen Vereins d. G. A . U., published 
by Zimmermann and Grossmann. Darmstadt, since 
1843, and similar ones for Thuringia and Brandenburg. 
Numerous occasional sheets, reports, etc., arc issued 
by the association. 

The society has not been entirely free from internal 
troubles. While some of its members have sought to 
confine its operations wdthin the strict limits of the 
evangelical confession, others have desired to sec it 
based upon humanitarian principles, and thus to re- 
ceive even Jews and Roman Catholics into member- 
ship. The most important difficulty occurred at the 
general meeting of 1846, at Berlin, where the delegates 
refused, by a vote of thirty-nine against thirty-two, to 
recognise Dr. Rupp as the delegate of Ivonigsberg, on 
account of his having seceded from the national 
Church. Great excitement spread throughout Ger- 
many, and for a moment endangered even the exist- 


ence of the association. The question v T as settled in 
the Assembly of Darmstadt in 1847, when it v T as re- 
solved that the assembly should have the right of de- 
ciding upon the credentials of all delegates. The 
strict Lutherans have generally kept aloof from the 
association on account of its support of Reformed and 
Union churches. The means of the association have 
been steadily increasing. Up to 1841 the receipts 
amounted to 14,727 thalers. In 1858 the society ap- 
propriated 107,666 thalers to 379 communities (224 in 
German}' and 155 in other countries). From 1843 to 
1858 the central and branch associations received leg- 
acies and donations amounting to 50,000 thalers. Swe- 
den and the Netherlands (vdiere the first Gustavus- 
Adolphus Society was instituted in 1853) have joined 
the German association, and helped to swell its funds. 
According to the report for the financial year 18G3-G4, 
the expenditures amounted to $T95,000, by which 723 
poor congregations w'ere supported (400 in Germany, 
6 in North America, 10 in Belgium, 27 in France, 7 in 
Holland, 3 in Italy, 206 in Austria, 43 in Prussian 
Poland, 4 in Portugal, 4 in Switzerland, and 17 in 
Turkey). At the general assembly held at Dresden 
in 18G5 it v'as announced that the society, since its 
foundation in 1842, had expended in the support of 
Protestant churches two million thalers, the first mil- 
lion from 1843 to 1858, the second from 1859 to 1864; 
that since its beginning- the society had defrayed, 
either wholly or partly, the expense for the building 
of 229 new churches. The receipts for the year 1865- 
G6 w'ere reported at the Assembly of Worms (1867) to 
amount to 177,226 thalers, a slight decrease, caused by 
the war of 1866. During the year 1866 67, according 
to the report made at the general assembly at Halber- 
stadt in 1868, 175,197 thalers were distributed among 
783 congregations. The twenty-fourth general assem- 
bly of the association was held at Bayreuth in August, 
1869. The receipts of the last year were stated to be 
194,000 thalers. The number of congregations sup- 
ported by the society amounted to 904 ; of these, 12 
w r ere in America, 348 in Prussia, 301 in Austria, 39 in 
France, 8 in Belgium, 60 in Rumania, 16 in Holland, 
4 in Italy, 5 in Russia, 6 in Switzerland, and 1 in 
Spain. The total amount expended by the society 
from its beginning to the close of the financial year 
1867-68 in supporting new' and poor Protestant congre- 
gations amounts to 2,325,879 thalers. Aside from its 
external efficiency, the society has also been beneficial 
to its own members by furnishing a common centre of 
Christian activity for the national Protestant Church 
of Germany. Its appropriations are made as much as 
possible in a form to give permanent rather than tem- 
porary relief to w’cak churches. See Zimmermann, 
D. Gustavus- Adolphus Verein (Darmstadt, 1857); All- 
gem. Real-Encykl. vii, 67. 

Guthlac, St., a Mercian saint, who died in 714. 
His early life w r as a w’icked one, he even being the 
leader of a band of robbers ; but, abandoning bis evil 
ways at the age of 24, he retired to the monastery of 
Repton, wdiere he learned to read, and studied the lives 
of the hermit fathers. He then took up his abode on 
the desolate isle of Croyland, where, we are told, his 
temptations and trials paralleled those of St. Anthony, 
but acquired for him extraordinary favors and consola- 
tions from God. He died at the age of 4/, and his 
sanctity, according to the legend, wrought posthumous 
miracles, w'hich brought about the erection of the ab- 
bey of Croyland, famed for its libraries and seminaries 
and the story of Turketel (q. v.), abbot thereof in 94S. 
Sec Life o/Gvthlnc, by Felix of Croyland, in Mabil- 
lon’s Acta Sanctor. Ord. St. Benedict, iii, 263-284. — 
Butler, Lives, etc., April 11 ; Jamieson, Legends of the 
Monastic Orders, p. 63-4 ; Wright, Biog. Brit . Lit. (An- 
glo-Saxon Period), p. 246-9. (J. W. M.) 

Guthrie, William, an eminent clergyman of the 
Presbyterian Church of Scotland, was born at Pitfor- 


GUTTER 


1038 


GUYON 


thy in 1G20. He studied at the University of St. An - ' 
drew’s, and in 1G44 became minister of the parish church 
of Finwiek. He died in 1G55. II is principal work is 
The Christian's Great Interest, with Introductory Essay 
by T. Chalmers, D.D., and Life (Glasgow, 1850, 7th ed. 
12mo). This work has been translated into several 
languages. See W. Dunlap, Memoirs of \V. Guthrie.; 
Darling, Cyclop . Bibliographica, i, 1357 ; Howie, Scots 
Worthies , p. 434. 

Gutter tsinnor'') occurs in the proposal of 

David while attacking Jebus, that some one should 
“get up to the gutter and smite the Jebusites” (2 
Sam. v, 8). The Sept, here renders “with the sword” 
(tn 7 Tapa&Qict), and the Vulg. “roof-pipes” ( domatum 
fistuhe). The word only occurs elsewhere in Psa. xlii, 

7 (Sept, and Vulg, cataracts , English Vers, “water- 
spouts”). Gesenius supposes it to mean a water-course . 
Dr. Bootbroyd gives “secret passage,” and in Psa. 
xlii “water-fall.” It seems to refer to some kind of 
subterraneous, passage through which water passed 5 
but whence the water came, whither it went, or the 
use to which it was applied, cannot be determined, 
though we know that besiegers often obtained access 
to besieged places through aqueducts, drains, and sub- 
terraneous passages, and we also know that Jerusalem 
is abundantly furnished with such underground ave- 
nues. See Jebus. 

In the account of Jacob’s artifice for producing partv- 
cHored young among his flock, by placing peeled rods 
in the drinking-troughs (Gen. xxx, 38, 41), the word 
for “gutters” in the original is 'JHj, racli at , vessels 
overflowing with water (as in Exod. ii, 1G) for cattle. 

Gdtzlaff, Karl Friedrich August, missionary 
to China, was born at Stettin, in Pomerania, in 1802, 
and attracted attention at an early age by his zeal in 
study, and by the promise of activity which his youth 
afforded. Ihe way was open for him to posts of use- 
ful uess i.t home, but having resolved to devote himself 
to missionary labor in foreign parts, he volunteered to 
go to the Dutch settlements in the East, under the au- 
spices of the Netherlands Missionary Society. Before 
proceeding thither he came to England, where he met 
Dr. Morrison, the eminent Chinese scholar and mis- 
sionary, and received a strong bias towards China as 
his ultimate field of labor. In 1823 he proceeded to 
Singapore, and it is said that before he had been there 
two years he was able to converse fluently in five 
Eastern languages, and to read and write as many 
more. In August, 1828, in company with Mr. T011I- 
min, Giitzlatf went to Siam, where he remained more 
than a year. In 1831 he went to China. Between 
1831 and 1834 he made three voyages along the coast, 
and published an account of his observations. From 
1834 to the time of his death he held office under the 
British government as interpreter and secretary to the 
minister. An attempt to land in Japan (1837) was un- 
successful. In 1844 lie established, conjointly with the 
American missionary Roberts, two Chinese, and others, 
a society for the propagation of the Gospel in China, 
which in 18C0 had forty preachers. In 1849 he re- 
visited Europe, and, by his personal exertions, gave a 
new impulse to missionary effort for China. He re- 
turned to China in 1850, and died at Victoria 011 the 
9th of August, 1851. Ilis way of life has been de- 
scribed as follows: The whole of the early morning 
was devoted to the religious instruction of successive 
classes of Chinese who came to his house. From ten 
till four he was occupied with government duties. Aft- 
er a very brief interval lie went out for the rest of the 
evening, preaching in public places, or teaching from 
house to house. He also, from time to time, made ex- 
cursions to different places, accompanied by native 
teachers. All this toil was voluntary and unreihuner- 
ated, for, except when he first went out to the East, lie 
was not connected with any missionary society. A 
few friends in New York and London sent occasional- 


ly, we believe, some contributions for purchasing books 
and medicines, but the work was mainly carried on at 
his own cost. He was a man of generous, self-deny- 
ing spirit, in zeal for every good work untiring, and in 
labor indefatigable. He early inured himself to hard- 
ships, and in his devotedness to his "work of spreading 
Christian truth he was regardless of privations and 
dangers. His medical skill and great learning often 
opened a way for him where few Europeans could 
have gained access, and wherever he was known he 
was beloved by the natives. They used to say some- 
times that he must be a descendant of some Chinese 
family who had emigrated to the isles of the Western 
Ocean. Whatever may be the permanent results of 
GutzlafTs labors in the East, it is certain that his ef- 
forts for the cause of religion, and of Christian civili- 
zation in China, deserve to be held in the grateful 
remembrance of the Church. He translated the New 
Testament into the language of the Middle Kingdom. 
He made himself thoroughly acquainted with the social 
life of the Chinese, and even introduced himself among 
their numerous secret societies, concerning the most 
important of which, the Triad , he wrote a memoir, pub- 
lished in the Journ. of the Lond . Asiatic Society (1849). 
He never lost an opportunity of disseminating Chris- 
tianity among the Chinese. Of his visit to China he 
gave a description in the Journal of the London Geo- 
graphical Society , vol. ix, 1849. The English gave 
his name to ail island situated some seventeen miles 
from the mouth of the Yang-tsc-Kiang. He wrote, 
besides the above-mentioned papers, Observations on the 
Kingdom of Siam (in the Journal of the London Geo- 
graphical Society , vol. viii, 1S48) : — Journal ef three 
Voyages along the Coast of China , with Notices of Siam , 
Con a , and the Loo-Choo Islands (Loud. 1833) : — Sketch 
of Chinese History , ancient and modern (Lond. 1834, 2 
vols. 8vo): — China opened , or display of the Topogra- 
phy, Literature , Religion, and Jurisprudence of the Chi- 
nese Empire (Loud. 1838, 2 vols. 8vo) : — The Life of 
Tao Kwang , the late Emperor of China (London. 1852, 
8 vo) : — Ilist. of the Chinese Empire (2 vols. 8vo), which 
was also published in German, etc. — See Iloefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate, xxii, 922 ; Methodist Quarterly Review, 
Jan. 1852; American Quart. Review, vol. xvii; Quart. 
Rev. (Lond. li, 458); Allibone, Dictionary of Authors, 
i, 751. 

Guy. See Guido. 

Guyon, Jeaxxf.-Marie Bouvier de la Motiie, 
an eminent French mystic, was born at Montargis 
April 13, 1G48. She was educated in a convent, and 
in early youth showed signs of great quickness of 
mind. At seventeen she wished to take the veil, but 
her parents would not consent. In 1GG4 she was mar* 
ried to M. Jacques Guyon, a rich parvenu, for whom 
she had no affection. Iler marriage was not a happy 
one, in consequence of the tyranny of her husband 
and mother-in-law, who, acting under the advice of her 
confessors, endeavored to withdraw’ her from the in- 
ward prayer and retirement to which, at the age of 
twenty, slie began to addict herself. Vanity and co- 
quetry were her besetting sins, and, to conquer them, 
she thought it necessary to purify herself by “good 
works” and bodily mortifications. She read largely in 
mystical writers, especially Kempis, Francis of Sales, 
and the life of Madame Chantal, whose self-inflictions 
she imitated. A Franciscan monk taught her to “look 
within instead of without” for peace, and to “ seek 
God in her heart.” Her doubts and fears fled: “I 
was on a sudden so altered that I was hardly to be 
known either by myself or bv others.” Madame Guy- 
on dated this conversion from July 22, 1GG8. Her do- 
mestic troubles continued, blit she could now bear 
them patiently. 1-n 1G7G her husband died, leaving 
her with three young children. Iler religious feelings 
now increased in intensity. Slie believed that she 
had certain interior communications of the divine will. 


GUYON 


1039 


GUYON 


but was often deepl} r distressed about the state of her 
soul. In 1672, on the anniversary of her conversion, 
she made “a marriage contract” with Christ, and sign- 
ed it in her own blood ! She formed an intimate ac- 
quaintance with Lacombe, a Barnabite mystic, who, 
from being her teacher, became her follower. In 1681, 
on St. Magdalene’s Day, on occasion of a mass, she 
says, “My soul was perfectly delivered from all its 
pains.” She soon after went to Paris, was exhorted 
in what she considered a miraculous manner to devote 
herself to the service of the Church, and went to Ge- 
neva to “convert” Protestants there, but, finding no 
success or sympathy, she went to Gex in 1683, to an 
establishment founded for the reception of converted 
Protestants. Her family then urged her to resign the 
guardianship of her children, wliieh she did, giving up 
all her fortune to them, retaining only sufficient for her 
subsistence. Soon after, D’Aranthon, bishop of Geneva, 
wished her to bestow this pittance upon an establish- 
ment, of which she was to be made prioress. She de- 
clined, and left Gex for the Ursuline convent at Tho- 
non, where Lacombe became her “father confessor.” 
Here she had a short period of unmingled enjoyment 
in dreams and reveries of bliss. Both Lacombe and 
Madame Guyon soon, however, began to gain purer 
ideas of the Christian life, and of the true nature of 
faith ; but the errors of Romanism and mysticism were 
too closely incorporated with her mental habits to be 
got rid of. She preached to the Ursnlines at Thonon 
not only “salvation by faith,” hut “indifference to 
life, to heaven, to hell, in the entire union of the soul 
with God.” She returned to Gex, and there, in prayer 
at night, it was revealed to her that she "was “ the 
spiritual mother of Lacombe her relations to him 
became more intimate than ever, and gave occasion 
afterwards to great but groundless scandal. Lacombe 
seems to have been a weak man : he finally died in a 
madhouse. T*he bishop of Geneva became alarmed, 
and sought to be rid of his dangerous proteges. Madame 
Guyon now wandered for some years (1683-1686), vis- 
iting Turin, Grenoble, and other places. At about this 
time also she began to write. Her first work (begun 
at Gex) w'as Les Torrents Spirit itels (published in her 
Opuscules, Cologne, 1704, 12mo). The “torrents” are 
souls tending to lose themselves in the ocean of God. 
The ’work exhibits the writer as a “ devout enthusiast, 
but principally demonstrates her unfitness as a pattern 
or teacher of experimental godliness.” At Grenoble 
she found herself “suddenly invested,” as she ex- 
presses herself, “with the apostolic state,” and able to 
discern the condition of those that spake with her, so 
that, one sending another, she w'as occupied from six 
in the morning till eight at night speaking of divine 
things. “There came,” she says, “great numbers 
from all parts, far and near, friars, priests, men of all 
sorts, young women, married women, and widow's; 
they all came one after the other, and God gave me 
tli«at which satisfied them in a wonderful manner, 
without my thinking or caring at all about it. Noth- 
ing was hidden from me of their inward state and con- 
dition. ... I perceived and felt that what I spake 
came from the fountain-head, and that I was only the 
instrument of him who made me speak.” Her expo- 
sition of Solomon's Song and of the Apocalypse appeared 
in 1684 at Grenoble. Her notes were written under 
a quasi inspiration : she had dreams, visions, and mar- 
vellous manifestations. “ Before I wrote I knew noth- 
ing of what I was going to write, and after I had writ- 
ten 1 remembered nothing of what I had penned,” she 
says, in the singular autobiography which she has left 
of herself. Another of her w orks of this period was 
Moye.n court et tres facile pour Voraison , which was 
published, and rapidly ran through five or six editions. 
The “Quietism” taught in these writings made her 
many enemies among the priests. In July, 1686, ac- 
companied by Lacombe, she returned to Paris, where 
persecution and tribulation awaited the wanderers. 


The “Quietism” of Molinos was condemned by the 
pope in 1687, and there w’as no peace or rest for the 
mystics or their abettors in Paris. In 1688 Madame 
Guyon was shut up (chiefly through the instigation of 
her brother, the Barnabite Lamothe, who bitterly hated 
her doctrines) in the convent of the Visitation at Paris. 
In 1689 Madame de Maintenon procured her release, 
and she soon gathered round her a circle of admiring 
and devoted friends, among w hom was Fenelon, who 
formed an affection for her which w'as “stronger than 
persecution or death.” A storm soon arose : Harlay, 
archbishop of Paris, condemned her writings, and other 
bishops followed his example. The outcry became 
general. Madame Guyon demanded of the king, 
through Madame de Maintenon, a dogmatical exami- 
nation of her writings. A commission was appointed, 
consisting of Bossuet, Fenelon, the abbe Tronson, and 
the bishop of Chalons. At the end of sijc months thirty 
articles were drawn up by Bossuet, sufficient, as lie 
deemed, to prevent the mischief likely to arise from 
Quietism, which were signed by Madame Guyon, who 
submitted at the same time to the censure w hich Bos- 
suet had passed on her w ritings in the preceding April. 
Notwithstanding this submission, she was subsequent- 
ly involved in the persecutions of Fenelon, the arch- 
bishop of Cambrai, and in 1695 was imprisoned in the 
castle of Vincennes, and thence removed to the Bastile, 
enduring the harshest treatment, and subjected to re- 
peated examinations. In 1700 she was released, when 
she retired to Blois, to the house of her daughter, w’hcre 
she passed the remainder of her days in quiet and re- 
pose, in acts of love and charity, and in writing books. 
No reproach of her enemies and persecutors ever es- 
caped her lips. All the neighborhood loved her; and 
her bitterest foes admitted that all the charges ever 
brought against her moral character had been false 
and scandalous. Her last will begins as follow's: “I 
protest that I die in the faith of the Catholic, apostoli- 
cal, Roman Chnreh; having no other doctrines than 
hers; believing all that she believes, and condemning, 
without restriction, all that she condemns.” She died 
June 9, 1717. 

John Wesley sums up, in his usual clear way, the 
character of Madame Guy on’s religious experience as 
follows: “The grand source of all her mistakes was 
this — the not being guided by the written word. She 
did not take the Scriptures for the rule of her actions ; 
at most, they W'ere but a secondary rule. Inward im- 
pressions, which she called inspirations, were her pri- 
mary rule. The written word was not a lantern to 
her feet, a light in all her paths. No ; she followed 
another light — the outward light of her confessors, and 
the inward light of her own spirit. It is true, she 
wrote many volumes upon the Scriptures. But she 
read them not to learn, but to teach ; and therein was 
hurried on by the rapid stream of her overflowing im- 
agination. Hence arose that capital mistake which 
runs through all her writings, that God never does, 
never can purify a soul but by inward and outward 
suffering. Utterly false! Never was there a more 
purified soul than the apostle John. And which of the 
apostles suffered less — yea, of all the primitive Chris- 
tians? Therefore, all that she says on this head, of 
‘darkness, desertion, and privation,’ and the like, is 
fundamentally wrong. This nnseriptural notion led 
her into the nnseriptural practice of bringing suffering 
upon herself — by bodily austerities; by giving away 
her estate to ungodly, unthankful relations ; by not 
justifying herself, than which nothing could he more 
unjust or uncharitable; and by that unaccountable 
whim (the source of numberless sufferings w hich did 
not end but w ith her life), the going to Geneva to con- 
vert the heretics to the Catholic faith. And yet with 
all this dross, how much pure gold is mixed! So did 
God wfink at involuntary ignorance. What a depth of 
religion did she enjoy! of the mind that was in Christ 
Jesus! What heights of righteousness, and peace, 


GUYOT 


1040 


GYPSIES 


and joy in the Holy Ghost ! How few such instances 
do we find of exalted love to God and our neighbor ; 
of genuine humility; of invincible meekness and un- 
bounded resignation ! So that, upon the whole, I know 
not whether we may not search many centuries to find 
another woman who was such a pattern of true holi- 
ness” (Wesley, IlorZs, vii, 562, 563). See also Curry 
in Methodist Quarterly Review, July, 1848, which con- 
tains a discriminating estimate of Upham’s Life and 
Religious Opinions of Madame Guyon (N. Y. 1848-1850, 
2 vols. 12 mo). Comp. Christian Rerien -, iii, 449; xvi, 
51 ; A merican Biblical Repository, iv, G08 (third series) ; 
New Englander , vi, 165. 

Madame Guvon’s principal works are, Moyen court 
et tr 'es facile pour Voraison (Lyons, 1G88 and 1690; of- 
ten reprinted ; translated into English, London, 1703, 
12mo): — Le Cantique des Cuntiques interprets selon le 
sens mystique (Grenoble, 1G85 ; Lyon, 1G88, 8vo) : — 
I.es torrents spirituels (first published in the Opuscules 
spirituals de Mme. Guyon (Cologne, 1704, 12mo) : — Les 
livres de VAncien et du Nouveau Testament , tradidts en 
franqais avec des explications et des ref exions qui re - 
gar dent la vie interieure (Cologne, 1713-1715, 20 vols. 
Svo): — Rerjueil de Poesies spirituelles (Amst. 1G89, 5 
vols. Svo) : — Cantiqiies spirituels, ou cmbl.mes sur V amour 
dirin (5 vols.) : — Discours chretiens et spirituels sur di- 
vers sujets qui regardent la vie interieure (Cologne, 171G ; 
Paris, 1790, 2 vols. Svo) : — Retires chritiennes et spiritu- 
clles sur divers sujets qui regardent la vie interieure, ou 
V esprit du vrai christianisme (Cologne, 1717, 4 vols. 
Svo). She left MSS. containing her Justifications , and 
a number of mystic verses. The Vie de Mme. Gugon, 
ecrite par elle-meme (autobiography), which was pub- 
lished after her death, is perhaps not wholly her own 
work. It is generally thought to have been compiled 
by l’oiret from documents furnished by her, first to the 
official of the archbishop of Paris, Ohcron, and after- 
wards to the bishop of Meaux, at the time of the con- 
ferences of Issy. The book appeared first at Cologne 
in 1720 (3 vols. 12m o). Poiret also published her 
whole works (Amsterdam, 1713-22,39 vols.8vo). See, 
besides tlie works above cited, Herzog, Real-Encyklo- 
pddie, v, 42G sq. ; Iloefer, Nouv . Biog. Generate , xxii, 
934 sq. ; English Cyclopedia . 

Guyot, Henri Daniel, a Belgian philanthropist, 
was born at Trois-Fontaines in 1753. lie studied at 
Maestricht and in the University of Franekcr, then 
became pastor of the Walloon Church, and afterwards 
professor of theology at Groningen. After filling the 
office for 28 years, he was deposed by the king of Hol- 
land, Louis Napoleon Bonaparte, on some unfounded 
accusation. He subsequently devoted all his time to 
a deaf and dumb institution which he had founded in 
1790. The first idea of this institution had entered his 
mind on witnessing a lesson of the abbe de l’Epee, at 
Paris, in 1785. By his process Guyot succeeded in 
making a number of his pupils talk. After the resto- 
ration of the Belgian kingdom, king William protected 
the institution. Guyot died Jan. 10, 1828. See Lulofs, 
Gedcnkrede op II. 1). Guyot (Groningen, 1828, 8vo) ; 
Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gentrale, xxii, 950. 

Guyse, John, D.D., an English Independent min- 
ister, was born at Hertford in 1G80. lie entered the 
ministry at the age of twenty as assistant to Mr. Ha- 
worth, who soon after dying, Mr. Guyse was chosen to 
succeed him as pastor of the church at Hertford. In 
1(32 he accepted an invitation to remove to Lon- 
don as successor to the Key. Matthew Clarke. Here 
his sphere of usefulness was enlarged, and his worth 
became widely known as a scholar, Christian, and di- 
vine. He published many sermons, but his great work 
is his Practical Expositor , or Paraphrase on the New 
I (St ament (Loud. 1739-52, 3 vols. 4to), which has been 
several times reprinted, lie died November 22, 1761. 
Among his other writings are Jesus Christ God-Man 
(Lond. 1719, Svo) : — Treatise on the J/olg Spij'it (new | 


ed. Lond. 1840, Svo) : — Practical Sermons (Lond. % 1756, 
8vo : — The Scripture Notion of Preaching Christ (Lond. 
1730, Svo) : — Youth's Monitor (Lond. 1759,4th ed.). »Sec 
Bogue and Bennet, Hist, of Dissenters, ii, G18 ; Allibone, 
Diet, of Authors, i, 751 ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibl. i, 1357. 

Gymnasium (yupveujior, A. Y. “place of exer- 
cise”), a large unroofed building for the purpose of 
athletic exercises, consisting usually of different com- 
partments, or a set of separate buildings conjoined, 
each of which was set apart to some special sport, as 
the Spheristerion for playing at ball, the Palestra for 
wrestling and the exercises of the pancratium, etc. 
(Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiquities, s. v.). This was al- 
most exclusively a Greek institution, and there was 
hardly a Greek town of any size that had not its gym- 
nasium. To the Jews it was unknown until the Ilel- 
lenizing party introduced it in the age of the Macca- 
bees (1 Mace. i,14). Jason, the Hellenizing high-priest, 
caused one to be erected at Jerusalem (2 Mace, iv, 12 
sq.). This innovation was viewed \Vith much displeas- 
ure by the strict party among the Jews. Whether 
Herod the Great, when he introduced the theatre and 
amphitheatre, restored the gymnasium, does not ap- 
pear, but the probability is that he did (Josephus, Ant. 
xv, 8, 1 ; compare War, i, 21, 11). — Kitto, s. v. See 
Games. 

Gymnosophists(riyivo(ro^i'TrrtO> ai1 ancient sect 
of Hindoo philosophers, who distinguished themselves 
outwardly from others by discarding all clothing. They 
were believers in metempsychosis, and often sought to 
facilitate their transmigration by committing suicide — 
generally burning themselves alive. They placed the 
height of wisdom in contemplation and ascetic practices 
to mortify carnal instincts. They inculcated utter dis- 
regard of temporal advantages. This sect furnished 
for a long time counsellors to the kings, and stood in 
high consideration. They were divided into two class- 
es, the Bracbmans and Garmans, or Samancans. Cal- 
anos, in the time of Alexander the Great, belonged to 
this sect. Sec Fakirs, as also Cicero, Tusc. Quest, v, 
27 ; Plutarch, Vit. Alexand. c. G5 ; Arrian, Indica , xii; 
Quintus Curtius, viii, cap. iv ; Strabo, § 712-719. 

Gypsies, Gypseys, or Gipsies (a corrupt form 
of Egyptians'), the English name of a singular vaga- 
bond race of people, with a language and laws or cus- 
toms peculiar to themselves, found throughout the 
whole of Europe, and in parts of Asia, Africa, and 
America, and everywhere noted for their aversion to 
the habits of settled life, and for the practice of decep- 
tive tricks and thieving. They bear different names 
in different countries. In France they are called Bo- 
htmiens (because they first came thither from Bohe- 
mia, or from boem, an old French word meaning sor- 
cerer, because of their practising on the credulity of 
the vulgar); in Spain, Gitanos or Zincali; in Germa- 
ny, Zigeuner ; in Italy, Zingari; in Holland, Ileyde- 
nen (heathens); in Sweden and Denmark, Tartars; 
in Sclavic countries, Tsigani; in Hungary, Czigdnjok; 
in Turkey, Tshengenler ; in Persia, Sisech ; in Arabia, 
Ilarami , etc. Various nicknames are also applied to 
them, as Cagoitx and Gueux in France ; Zieh-Gciuner 
(wandering rogues) in Germany, and Tinklers in Scot- 
land. They call themselves Rom (men or husbands; 
comp. Coptic Rem), Calo (black), or Sinte (from Ind; 
hence Zincali , or black men from Ind). 

Origin and History. — In the absence of any histori- 
cal records of their migrations, their original country 
and the causes which drove them thence to scatter 
so widely over the earth have boon the subject of 
speculation among the learned, and various theories 
have been proposed as solutions of the mystery of 
their origin and history. Some writers have connect- 
ed them with the Xiyvvvai, mentioned by Herodotus 
(v, 9) as a people of Median extraction dwelling be- 
yond the Lower Danube, and the Siyivvoi, described 
by Strabo (§ 520) as living near Mount Caucasus, and 


1041 


GYPSIES 


GYPSIES 

practising Persian customs. Others have referred 
them variously to Tartarv, Nubia, Mesopotamia, As- 
syria, Ethiopia, Morocco, etc. ; but the account which 
the Gypsies, at their appearance in Western Europe, 
gave of themselves, claimed “Little Egypt” as the 
original home of the race, whence they were driven in 
consequence of the Moslem conquests. According to 
one version of the story, pope Martin V imposed on 
them, as a penance for their renunciation of the true 
faith, a life of wandering and an inhibition of the 
use of a bed for seven years; according to another 
version, God himself had doomed them to this vaga- 
bond life because their forefathers had refused hospi- 
tality to Joseph and Mary when they took refuge in 
Egypt with the infant Saviour — “a notion which has, 
curiously enough, been partly revived in our own day 
by Roberts, with this difference only, that he proves 
them, from the prophecies of Isaiah, Jeremiah, and 
Ezekiel, to be the descendants of the ancient Egyp- 
tians, and their wanderings to be the predicted pun- 
ishment of the various iniquities of their forefathers” 
(Chambers). We owe to the once-pre valent belief 
that they were from Egypt the origin of the English 
term Gypsies and the Spanish Gitanos. The results 
of the investigations made within the last hundred 
years in the fields of comparative philology and eth- 
nology prove beyond reasonable grounds of doubt that 
the theories above named are erroneous, and that we 
must look to India, “ the nursing homo of nations” 
( tellits gentium nntrix ), as also the fatherland of the 
Gypsies. It is now the almost, if not entirety univer- 
sally received opinion that they came to Europe from 
Hindustan, either impelled by the ravages of Tamer- 
lane, or, more probably, at an earlier date, in quest of 
fresh fields for the enjoyment of their vagabond life, 
and the exercise of their propensity for theft and de- 
ception. This view of their origin rests upon their 
physiological affinities with Asiatic types of men, as 
well as on the striking resemblances between the 
Gypsy language and Hindustanee, and the similarity 
of their habits and modes of life to those of many rov- 
ing tribes of India, especially of the Nuts or llazegurs, 
who are styled the Gypsies of India, and are counter- 
parts of those in Europe, both in other respects and 
also in having no peculiar religion, since they have 
never adopted the worship of Brahma. The Nuts are 
thought by some to be an aboriginal race, prior even 
to the Hindus. Another theory, which seeks to rec- 
oncile the Gypsy statement of an Egyptian origin with 
the clear evidences of a Hindu one, would find their 
ancestors in the mixed multitude that went out from 
Egypt with Moses (see Exod. xii, 38; Numb, xi, 4; 
Neh. xiii, 3), and who, according to this view, passed 
onward to India and settled there, and from their de- 
scendants, subsequently, bands of Gypsies migrated to 
Europe, probably at different times and by different 
routes (see Sim son). 

The earliest supposed reference to Gypsies in Euro- 
pean literature is contained in a German paraphrase 
of Genesis, written about A.D. 1122 by an Austrian 
monk, in which mention is made of “ Ishmaclites and 
braziers, who go peddling through the wide world, 
having neither house nor home, cheating people with 
their tricks, and deceiving mankind, but not openly.” 
In the earl}’' part of the 15th century they had estab- 
lished themselves in Hungary and Wallachia, and be- 
gan to spread over Western Europe in considerable 
numbers ; one of their bands, which appeared at Basic 
in 1422, numbered, according to the old Swiss histo- 
rian Stumpf, 14,000. They were under a kind of feu- 
dal leadership of so-called dukes, knights, etc., and, 
telling the story of their expulsion from Egypt and 
penal pilgrimage, sought to excite sympathy. At 
first they were well received as Christian pilgrims per- 
forming their allotted penance ; but the deception was 
soon found out, and their thefts and impositions on the 
erednlitv of the people soon caused them to be regard- 
III. — U u u 


ed as nuisances and pests to society. Very stringent, 
even barbarously cruel laws were enacted, and in 
most places enforced against them, without, however, 
extirpating them, or seriously diminishing their num- 
bers. After the middle of the 18th century more hu- 
mane views in regard to them obtained, and measures 
were employed to improve their social and moral con- 
dition with some degree of success. A society for 
their improvement was formed at Southampton, Eng- 
land, in 1832, by the Rev. George Crabbc, and a school 
has been established at Farnham, in Dorsetshire, “ in 
which Gypsy children are instructed in the knowledge 
of Scripture, where they are at the same time trained 
for service and taught various trades.” The number 
of them who adopt more settled modes of life is in- 
creasing, according to Simson, who further states that 
Gypsies have been found occupying honorable and re- 
SDonsible positions in public as well as private life, 
and reckons the celebrated John Runyan among Gyp- 
sies. Grelhnan estimated the number of Gypsies in 
Europe at 700,000 to 800,000. Simson (p. 493) con- 
siders that estimate far too low, and thinks there arc 
at least 4,000,000 in Europe and America. The Gyp- 
sies, as a race, have no religion, and, indeed, arc usu- 
ally described as destitute of religious sentiments or 
ideas, their language containing no word signifying 
God, soul, or immortality. Rut the sacrifice of horses, 
which, Simson asserts, formerly constituted a part of 
the Gypsy marriage ceremonies, and is still a neces- 
sary part of a valid divorce ceremony, not only in- 
volves a religions idea, but presents a coincidence with 
Hindu mythological conceptions. See Ganges. They 
have, for policy’s sake, often conformed, so far as nec- 
essary, to the religion of the country in which they 
roved, but Velasquez says sarcastically, “The Gyp- 
sies’ church was built of lard, and the dogs ate it.” 
In regard to their morals, little that is commendatory 
can be said. They are described as squalid, thievish, 
treacherous, and revengeful, and their most strongly- 
marked virtue, viz. a strict regard for the corporeal 
chastity ( lacha ) of their women, is sadly disfigured by 
the permission allowed them to employ the grossest 
licentiousness in manner merely in order to allure 
others to vice for the sake of gain as procuresses. 
Some of them show great aptitude for music, and the 
choirs of Moscow owe their chief excellence to them, 
and among the Hungarian Gypsies arc found the most 
celebrated violinists of that country. Ihey furnish a 
field for the display of the religious activities of this 
age, full of difficulties, vet provocative of effort, and 
Christians should zealously labor and pray for the con- 
version of this race, assured that its evangelization 
and consequent moral and material elevation will be 
one of the grandest of the victories of the Gospel over 
degradation and sin promised to the Church of Christ 
in its conflicts here. 

Language and Version . — The Gypsies call their lan- 
guage Rommany, and modern philological research- 
es prove that it belongs to the Sanscrit family. It has 
doubtless received additions and modifications from 
the languages of the countries in which the race has 
sojourned, yet it is still so nearly the same with mod- 
ern Hindustanee that a Gypsy can readily understand 
a person speaking in that dialect — a fact which tends 
to verify the statements made as to the zealous care 
with which the Gypsies have cherished their ancestral 
tongue. Mr. George Borrow, who devoted himself to 
the study of their language and life, translated the 
whole of the New Testament into the Spanish dialect 
of Rommany, and in 1838 printed at Madrid 500 cop- 
ies of the Gospel of Luke, in the translation of which, 
as far as the eighth chapter, lie had been assisted by 
Gypsies. This version was found to be perfectly in- 
telligible to the Gitanos, and copies wore eagerly 
sought after by them, not, Mr. Borrow thinks, because 
of the truths it contained, but from a desire to see and 
read their broken jargon in print. lie remarks : “ The 


GYRO VAGI 


1042 


ELLIOTT 


only words of assent I ever obtained, and that rather 
of a negative kind, were the following from the mouth 
of a woman : 4 Brother, yon tell us strange things, 
though perhaps you do not lie ; a month since I would 
sooner have believed these tales than that this day I 
should see one who could write Rommany.’ ” The 
following specimen of the version is from Bagster’s 
Bible of every Land, p. Ill — Luke vi, 27-29 : “ 27 Tami 
penelo a sangue sos lo Junelais : Camelad a jires daseh- 
manuces, querelad mistos a junos sos camelan sangue 
choro. 2s Majarad a junos sos zermanelan a sangue, 
y manguelad & Debel por junos sos araquerelan san- 
gue choro ! 29 Y a 6 sos curare tucue andre yeqne 

mejilla, dinle tambien a aver. Y a d sos nicobelare 
tncue o uchardo, »a 6 impidas lliguerar tambien a 
furi.” For further information on the Gypsies and 
their language, see the following works: Pevssonel, 
Observa(io7is historiques et geographiques sur les peuples 
bnrbares qui out habile les bords du Danube et du Pont - 
Euxin (Paris, 1705, 4to) ; Fray, Annales regum Hunga- 
nVe ad annum Chr. MDLXIV deducti (Vienna, 1701— 
70, 5 pts. fol.) ; Grellman, Historische Versuch iiber die 
Zigeuner (*2d ed. Gottingen, 1787 ; English translation 
by Roper, Lond. 1787, 4to); Bischoff, Deutch-Zigeuner- 
isches I Vdr ter buck (Ilmenau, 1827); Kogalmichan, Es- 
quisse sur I'histoire, les Maurs et la langue des Cigains 
(Berlin, 1837) ; Predari, Origine e vicende dei Zingari 
(Milan, 1841) ; Pott, Die Zigeuner in Europa und Asien 
(Halle, 1844 45, 2 vols. 8vo — “the most wonderfully 
thorough and exhaustive book ever written on the 
subject of the Gypsies and their language’’); Yon 
lleister, Ethnographie und gesckichtliche Notizen uber die 
Zigeuner (Konigsberg, 1842); Bataillard, De lappari- 
tion et de la dispersion des Bokemiens en Europe (in 5tli 
vol. of the Biblioth'eqne de Vecole de Chartres , 1844 ; 
Bohtlingk, Die Spf'ache der Zigeuner in Eussland (St. 
Petersburg, 1852); Borrow, The ZincaH (London and 
N. York); Bagster’s Bible of every Land (Lond. u. d.), 
p. 111-13; Simson, A History of the Gipsies (X. York 
and Lond. 18GG, 12mo); Roberts, Gypsies , their Origin , 
Continuance , etc. (Lond. 8vo); Brand, Popular Antiq- 
uities (Lond. 1842, 3 vols. post 8vo), iii, 45-53; Thos. 
Browne, IPorA’s (London, 1852, Bohn’s ed.), ii, 204-G; 
Chambers, Cyclopaedia , s. v. ; New American Cyclopae- 
dia , viii, G12 sq. (J. W. M.) 

Gyrovagi, wandering monks. The monasticism of 
Occidental Europe at an early period took the form of 
common life in monasteries. Ascetics and hermits were 
gradually obliged to connect themselves with their 
brethren settled in convents. Many of them, howev- 
er, unwilling to submit to conventional discipline, trav- 
elled from place to place, from convent to convent, from 
abbey to abbey, being entertained a few days at each 
place, in consequence of the general rule of hospitality 
in vigor in all convents, but evading all propositions 
tending to render their stay a permanent one. When 
they had gone over their whole circuit they began it 
anew, and from this habit received the name of Gyrc- 
vagi. 1 sidcre of Seville gave this name also to the Cir- 
cumcelliones (q. v.). These wandering monks were the 
pests of the convents, introducing gossip and vice wher- 
ever they went. Vainly did Augustine, in De Opere Mo- 
nachorum , e. 28, and Cassian, Collado 18, declare them- 
selves strongly against these vagrant monks. Bene- 
dict wrote his rules expressly (cap. i) in view of the 
Sarabaites and Gyrovagi, whom he seems to have been 
the first to mention by that name in writing. Colum- 
banus and Isidore of Seville (De eccl. s. officiis , lib. ii, c. 
15), in the 7th century, also censured the degeneracy 
of monaehism ; but it required the rule of Benedict, in 
the 8th century, and the efforts of Charlemagne, Louis 
the Pious, and Benedict of Aniane, to bind the Western 
monks firmly to regular conventional life, thus putting 
an end to the race of homeless, wandering monks. The 
later mendicant orders are, to a certain extent; a repro- 
duction of them. The name Gyrovagi has also been 
applied to unsettled, travelling members of the Roman 


clergy. See Martene, Comment, in Peg. S. P. Benedict 
ti , p. 53 sq. (Paris, 1G90) ; Iierzog, Real- Em y Id. v, 433. 


Elliott, Charles, D.D.,* an eminent scholar and 
minister of the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born 
May 1G, 1792, at Glencomvay, County Donegal, Ire- 
land. 1 1 is early education was obtained in the ordi- 
nary schools of the neighborhood, but lie soon went 
beyond their range in private study. He was brought 
to a religious life under the ministry of the Rev. E. 
Hazleton in 1811, and soon after turned his studies to- 
wards preparation for the ministry. He was licensed 
about 1813 as a local preacher, and taught school until 
181G, when, with his widowed mother and her eight 
other children, he sailed for America. Settling in 
Western Pennsylvania, he devoted himself to farm 
labor and teaching school, preaching meanwhile al- 
most every Sunday. In 1818 he was received on trial 
into the Ohio Conference, and was appointed first to 
Zanesville Circuit; then, in 1819, to Duck Creek Cir- 
cuit ; in 1820 he was ordained deacon, and appointed 
to Erie Circuit, and in 1821 to Mahoning Circuit ; dur- 
ing part of the next year lie was missionary to the 
Wyandotte Indians. From 1823 to 1827 he was pre- 
siding elder of the Ohio district; 1827-31, professor of 
languages in Madison College, Pa. ; 1831-2, pastor at 
Pittsburg ; 1833-G, editor of the Pittsburg Confennce 
Journal; 183G-48, editor of the Western Christian Ad- 
vocate. The next four years were spent in the regular 
work of the ministry ; and from 1852 to 185G he was 
again editor of the Western Christian Advocate. In 
1857 he became professor, and in 1858 president of the 
Iowa Wesleyan University ; and also edited the Cen- 
tral Christian Advocate, published at St. Louis from 
18G0 to 18G4. He was nine times a delegate to the 
General Conference. After a long career of arduous 
and successful labor, lie died at Mount Pleasant, Iowa, 
Jan. 3, 1869. “ In every department of labor Dr. El- 

liott was an untiring worker ; work was his element. 
Naturally blessed with a vigorous constitution and a 
cheerful flow of spirits, he never felt labor a burden. 
In his busiest hours he was light of heart, and often 
playful as a child. Mere elegance was never his 
study, either as to mind or manners ; but, while the 
learned found in him a master and the child a com- 
panion, the most fastidious felt at home with him as a 
gentleman. To know him was to love him.” Ilis 
scholarship was not only varied, but accurate, and in 
knowledge of the history and theology of the Roman 
Catholic Church he was not exceeded by any theolo- 
gian of his time. The marvel is that, amid his inces- 
sant labors as preacher, editor, etc., he found time for 
so much study and authorship. Ilis writings include 
An Essay on the Subjects and Modes of Baptism (1834, 
12mo) : — An Essay on the J 7 due < f the Soul (1835, 12m o) : 
— Indian Reminiscences, principally of the II 'yundotte 
Nation (18.35, lGmo): — Delineation of Roman Catholicism 
(X. Y. 1841, 2 vols. 8vo ; London, 1851, royal 8vo) 
Life of Bishop Roberts (1844, 12m o) : — The Sinfulness 
of American Slavery (1850, 2 vols. 12mo): — The Great 
Secessioii (a history of the division of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church in 1844 on account of slavery ; X. Y. 
1852, royal 8vo) : — The Bible and Slavery (1857, 12mo) : 
— South-western Methodism , a History of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church in Missouri from 1844 to 18G4 (18G8, 
12nm). He also left ready for the press an elaborate 
work on Political Romanism, which, it is to l e hoped, 
will be published. r l he Delineation of Roman Catholi- 
cism is unrivalled in English literature as a storehouse 
of facts and arguments ; it is drawn from original 
sources, and is worked out with great care and accu- 
racy. The English edition is provided with a copious 
index. — Sketch by tlie Rev. L. M. Vernon ; Irish Evan- 
gelist, April, 18G9. 

* The pages in which this article would he in place, alpha- 
betically, were stereotyped before the death of Hr. Elliott. 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL III. 


1 Edar Tage 

1 Eddy .... 


Eaclmrfl Page 

Ead frith 

Eadmer 

Eagle 

Eagle, in the Church 

of England 4 Eden, 3 

Eanes 

Ears, Touching the. . 

Ears of Corn 

Ear, leaving, 

Eardley 

Early 

Earl} 7 English..* 

Earnest 

Ear-ring 

Earth 


51'Eisenmenger . .Page 110 Eliab, 5 Page 

. 51 Eker 7 HO Eliab, 6 

ljEdehnann 51 Ekkehard (A.J.S.).. 110 Eliab, 7 

1 Eden, 1 52 Ekrebel 110 Eliada, 1 

Eden, 2 


4 Eden, 4 

4 Kdeiiuw 

4 Eder, 1 

4 Eder, 2 

4 Edes 

4 Edessa 

5 Edgar, John 

5 Edgar, John Todd. . 

5 Edge 

7 Edias 

7 Edict 

Earthquake 8 Edification 


wards the 11 Edmund I 

Eastburn 12 Edmund, St 

East Sea 12 Edna 

East Wind 12 Edom 

Easter 12 Edomite 

Easter, Celebration of 12 Edrei, I 

Easter Controversies ! Edrei, 2 

(A.J.S.) . , 13 Education, llebiew. 


Klibo (A.J.S.) 
Ebed, 1 . 
Ebed, 2 


Easter, John, 2 14 Eduth 

Eastern Church 14 Edward 111 

Eating 14 Edward Vi 

Eaton, John 16 Edward-*, llcla Bates 

Eaton, Samuel 16 (K.A.P.) 

Kbal,l 16 Edwards, John 

Kbil,2 16 Edwards, Jonathan, 

Ebal, 3 16 1 (E.A.P.) 

IS Edwards, Jonathan, 

loj 2 (E.A.P.) 

10 Edwards, Justin. . . . 
Ebed-jesn, 1(T.1I. W.) 10 Edwards, Morgan.. 
Ebed-Jesu, 2 (J.ll.W.) 19 Edwards, Thomas, 1 

Ebed-mclech 10 Edwards, Thomas, 2 

Ebel (A.J.S.) 10 Edwards, Timothy . 

Kben- 20 Edwy 

Kbenezer 20 Edzardi, Esra (J.1I. 

Eber, 1 20 W.) 

Eber, 2 20 Edzardi, Esra llein- 

Eber, 3 20 rich (J.ll.W.).. . . 

Eber, 4 20 Edzardi, Georg Klie- 

Eber, 5 20| ser (J.ll.W.) 70 

Eber, Paul 20 Edzardi, Johann E. 

Eberhard (A.J.S.) . . . 20) (J.ll.W.) 70 

Eberlin 20 Edzardi, Sebastian 

Ebert, Jacob(J.ll.W.) 21, (J.ll.W.) 70 

Ebert, Theodor 21 ’Effectual Prayer. . . 71 

Ebiasapli 21 Effrontes 71 

Ebi oni tea 21 Egbert 71 

Ebnerian Manuscript 22 Egbert, St. (A.J.S.). 71 

Kboda 22 E^ede, llans 71 

“ - - - 73 


57!Ekronite 

. . Ill Eliada, 3 

57 

El. 

. . Ill Eliadaii 

57 

Ela. . ..... . . . ". . 

. . Ill Eliudas 

57 Eladah 

..Ill Kliaduu 

57 Elah, 1 

.. Ill Eliab 

57 Elah, 2 

. . lll Elialiba 

57 Elah, 3 

. . Ill Eliakim, 1 

57. Elah, 4 

.. Ill Eliakim, 2 

58 Elah. 5 

.. Ill, Eliakim, 3 

5S Elah, 0 

..Ill Eliakim, 4 

58 Elah, 7 

.. Ill Eliakim, 5 

53 Elais 

.. 11 1 Eliali 

58 1 

Elam, 1 

.. 1121 Kliam 

59 Elam, 2 

. .**113 Eliaonias 

59 

Elam, 3 

.. 11 3 1 Elias 

5) 

Elam, 4 

. . 1 13| Elias Levita ( \. J.S.) 

59 

Elam, 5 

. . 113 Eliasnph, 1 

50 

Elam, 6 

.. llS Eliasaph, 2 

59 

Elam, 7 

.. 113 Eliashib, 1 

59 

Elamite 

.. 1131 Eliashib, 2 

60 

Elasali, 1 

.. 113 Eliashib, 3 

01 

Elasab, 2. . { 

.. 114 Eliashib, 4 

61) 

Elasali, 3 

..114 Eliashib, 5 

63 

Elasali, 4 

.. 114 Eliashib, 6 

63' 

Elath 

. . 114 Kliasib 

63 j 

El-Bethel 

.. 115 Eliasis 

63 

Elcia 

.. 115 Kliathah 


Eldaah 

.. 1'15 Klidnd 

03 

El dad 

.. 115 Kliel, 1 

63 

Elder 

.. 115' Kliel, 2 

Elead 

.. 110 Kliel' 3 

63 Elealeh 

. . 119, Kliel, 4 


| Eleasa 

.. 1 10 j Kliel, 5 

67 

Eleasali 

.. 119 Eliel, 6 

GO 

Eleatic Scliool (G. 

F. Eliel;, 7 

60 

H.) 

.. 119 Eliel, S 

GO 

Eleazar, 1 

.. 122 Kliel, 0 

70 

Eleazar, 2 

. .. 122 Elienai 

70 

Eleazar, 3 

.. 1 22 1 Eliezer, 1 

70 

Eleazar, 4 

.. 122 Eliezer, 2 


Eleazar, 5 

.. 122 Eliezer, 3 

70 

Eleazar, 6 

.. 122 Eliezer, 4 


Eleazar, 7 

. . 122 Eliezer, 5 


70 


Eleazar, 12. . . . 

Eleazar, 13 

Eleazar, 14 


Ebony 22;Egedc, Paul 

Ebrardus 24 Egg 

Ebremar 24'Egidio Antonini (A. 

Ebronah 24 j J.S.) 

Ebutius 24 Eginliard (A.J.S.).. 

Ecanns 24 Eglah 

Kcbatana 24 Eglaim .... 

F.cce 

Ecchellensis 


Eleazar, S 122 Kiiczer, 6 

Eleazar, 9 123 ■ Eliezer, 7 

Eleazar, 10 123 : Eliezer, S 

Eleazar, 11 123 Eliezer, 0 

123 Eliezer, 10 

123 Eliezer, 11 

123 Eliezer ben-Elias As- 

Eleazar, 15 123 chenazi 

Eleazar, 16 123 Eliezer ben-llyrka- 

Eleazar, 17 1231 nos 

Eleazar, IS 123 Eliezer ben-Jndah. . 

123 Eliezer ben-Nathnn 

123 Eligius 

123 Elihoenai, 1 

Elihoenai, 2 

.... 123 Elihoreph 

.... 123 Klilui, 1 

74 Elect 123 Elilin, 2 

74 Electa 124 Eliliu, 3 


Eleazar, 10 

Eleazar, 20 

73 Eleazar, 21 

Eleazar (patriarch) 

73] (A.J.S.) 

3 Eleazurus. . 


13S Elipandns Page 

133 Eliphal 

138 Eliphahit 

13S Eliplialet 

139 Elipliaz, 1 

1 39 1 Elipliaz, 2 

1 39Elipheleh 

139 [Eliphelet, 1 

130 , Eliphelet, 2 

139 Eliphelet, 3 

ISO [Eliphelet, 4 

139 Eliphelet, 5 

139 Eliphelet, 6 

130 Elisabeth 

139, 1. listens 

139 Elisha 

13! Elisha (Armenian) 

139 (A.J.S.) 

140 Elisliah 

140 Elishama, 1 

140 Elishama, 2 

141 Elishama, 3 

141 Elishama, 4 

141; Elishama, 5 

141 Elishama, 6 

141 Elishama, 7 

141 Elishaphat 

141 Elishcba 

141 jKlishna 

141 Elisimus 

141 ■ Klin 

141 Eliitd 

141 Elizabeth (G.l’.U ). 
141 Elizabeth, Albertine 
141 Elizabeth, St. (A.J. 

141 S.) 

141 Elizabethines (A.J. 

141 S.) 

141 llizaplian, 1 

141 Klizaphan, 2 

141 Elizur 

141 Elkanah, 1 

141 Elkanah, 2 

141 1 Elkanah, 3 

14*2] Elkanah, 4 

142 Elkanah, 5 

142; Elkanah, C 

142 Elkanah, 7 

142 Elkcsaites (A.J.S.) . 

142! Elkosh 

142 Elkoshite 

142jEUasar 

142 Idler (A.J.S.) 

142 Elliott, Arthur W. . 

Elliott, Johu 

Elliott, Stephen . . . . 

Ellis, Reuben 

142- Ellis, Robert Fulton 
142 Ellys 

142 Elm 

143 Elmodam 

143 Elnaam 


152 

152 

152 

152 

152 

152 

152 

152 

152 

152 

153 
153 
153 
153 
153 
153 


142 


I lomo 26 Eglath.. 74 Election of Clergy . 124 .Eliliu, 4 

dlensis 2G|Eglinus (A.J.S.). . 74 Election of Grace, I. Eliliu, 5 


Ecclesiastes 26 Eglon, 1 75| 

Ecclesiastic 35; Eglon, 2 

Ecclesiastical History 35 Eglon, 3 

Ecclesiastical Polity. 30 Egypt 


125 Elijah, 1.. 


F.cclesiastieus 42 

Ecclesiology 46 

Echard, Jacques 46 

Erhard, Lawrence... 46 


, (C.ll.) .. . 

75 Election of Grace, II. 128 Elijah, 2 

75 El -el ohe- Israel 131 Elijah, 3 

75 Elements 131 Elika 

j Eleph 132 1 Klim 

105 Elephant 132 Elimeleeh 

Egypt, Christian ... 105; Eleusinian Mysteries I Elioenai, 1 

Egyptian 107| (A J.S.) 134 Elioenai, 2 


ICgypt, Brook or Riv 
er of . . 


•>k 4G Egyptian Versions. . 107] Eleutheropolis 135 Elioenai, 3., 


Kckart 40 

Eckennann 40 

Eclectics 40 

Eclipse 50 

Economy 51 

F.c thesis 51 

Ecuador (A.J.S.). ... 51 
Ed 51 


Ehi.~ 108 Eleutherus (river .. 135 Elioenai, 4, 

Eliud, *].*. lOSlEleuthcrus (bishop) Elioenai, 5 

Ehnd, 2 10S (A.J.S.) 136 Elioenai, 6 

Ehud, 3 lOS-Elhanan 136 Elionaens 

Eichliorn, Job. Gott. lOOjEli 137 Elionas, 1 

Eiehhorn,KarI Fried- Eli (an exclamation) 138 Elionas, 2 

rich (A.J.S.) lOolEli- 13S Eliot, Andrew 

Einsiedeln 109lEliab, 1, 2, 3, 4 13S Eliot, John 


Elnatlmn, 1 
El na than, 2, 3, 4.. . . 

Ell ora 

El oh i m 

Klohist 

Kloi 

El* >n. 1 

l.lon, 2 

I' Ion, 3 

Elon, 4 

Elon-beth-lianaii. . . 

Elonite 

Eloth 

Elpaal 

Elpalet 

151 1 El pa ran 

151 tllphinston 

151 ! El pis 

151 Elrington 

151 t'.lsner 

151 1 Kltekeh 

151'Eltekon 

151 Eltolad 

151IElul 


159 

160 
ltd 
160 
160 
160 
16 1 
160 
1(0 
160 
160 
160 
160 
160 
ICO 
161 
163 

163 

164 
164 
161 

164 
1(4 

165 
165 
165 
165 
165 
165 

165 
1GG 
106 

166 
166 
167 
107 
167 

167 

168 
168 
168 
163 
168 
1G3 
168 
168 
160 
160 
169 
169 
1 GO 
169 
169 
169 
160 
169 
169 
160 

169 
109 
370 

170 
170 
170 
170 
170 
170 


104-t 

Elusn Page 170 

l.hizai 171 

Elvira (A.J.S.) 171 

Ely, Ezra Stiles .... 171 

Ely Cathedral 171 

Elynuenn 171 

Ely ni aid 171 

Elymas 172 

Elza bud, 1 172 

Elzabad, 2 172 

Elzaplian 172 j 

Emanation (A.J.S.) 172 
Emancipation 172 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN YOL. III. 

275 Ethics (B.11.X.) p„ge 319 Evangelical Alliance 
^Ethiopia 325 1 (A.J.S.) I'age 3G7 


Kns Page 231 

En-shemesli 231 

Ensign 231 

Entablature 232 

Kn-Tunnim 232 

En-t:ippitah 232 

Kntelecliy 2:52 

Entertainment 232 

Enthusiasm 233 

Entity 234 

Entrance into the 

Church 234 

Kntwisle 234 


Embalm 172 Enzinas, Francisco . 234 

Embalming the Dead 175 Enzinas de, Jayme . 234 

Ember Weeks 175 Eon (A.J.S.) 234 

Emblem 17G Eoquinians 234 


Embroider 1 

Embury 177 

Emerald 177 

Emerson, John S... . 177 
Emerson, Ralph. . . . 177 

Emery 177 

Emim ITS 

Eminence 17S 


Epact 234 

Epa?nctus 235 

Epaon 235 

Kpaphras 235 

Epaphroditus 230 

Eparch 230 [ 

Eparchy (A.J.S.).. . 230 
Epje 230 


Emlyn 17S Kpefanoftschins .... 230 

Emmanuel 17S Eplmh, 1 230 


Emmaus, 1 17S 

Emnnaus, 2 17S 

Kminaus, 3 179 

Enuner 179 

Emmeran 179 

Emmons (E.A.P.). . 179 


Ephah, 2 23(5 

Eplmh, 3 237 

Eplmh (a measure) . 237 

Kpliai 237 

Eplier, 1 237 

Epher,2 237 

ICmmor..... ISO 1 Eplier, 3 237 

Emperor ISO, Ephes-dammim .... 237 

Emory, John 1S1 j Ephesian 237 

Emory, Robert 1 S L I Ephesians, Epistle to 237 

Emotion 1 S3 Kphesin 241 j 

Empedocles 1S2 Ephesu*, General 

Empiricism (G.F.J I.) IS J Conned of 247 

Ems Congress (A. J. Ephesus Robber 
S.). 


Epitaphia Page 

Epoch 

Equitius (A.J.S.)... 

Equity 

Equivocation 

Kr,l 

Er, 2 

Er, 3 

Eran 

Eranite 

[Erasmus 

Erastianism 

Erastus 

Erastus, Thomas .. . 

Erdt 

Ercbintlii 

Ereclt 

Eremite 

Erfurt (A.J.S.) 

Eli 

Erie IX 

Elite 

Erizatsy. 

Erlangen (A.J.S.) . . 

Krnesti 

Eroge 

Erpen 

Error 

Erskine, 1 henezer. . 

Erskine, John 

Erslciue, Ralph 

Esaias 

Esar-haddon 

F.sau (son of Isaac) . 

""sau 

I ’say 

Eschatology, Bibli- 
cal 

Eschatology, Theo- 
logical (A.J S.).. . 
Escobar y Mendoza 

Esc u rial 

Esdraelon 

Esdras 

Esdras, First Book cf 
Esdras, Second Book 

of 

Esebon 

Esebrias 

Esek 

Eshbnal 

Kshban 

Eshcol, 1 

Eslieol, 2 

Eshenn 

Kshek 

Eshkalonite 

Eshtaol 

Eshtaulite 

Eshteraoa 

Esliton 

Eskridge 

Esli 

Esne 

Isnig (A.J.S.) 

Esora 

Esoteric 

ispen (A.J.S.) 

Espousals 

Espouse 

Hsril 


350 

£50 


1S5 Council of, 217 

Emser (A.J.S.) 185 Ephlal 248 

En- 185 Ephod 245 

Enam 185 Ephod (a sacred vest- 

Enan 185 ment) 248 

Enasibus 185 Kpliphntha 249i 

Encienia 185 Epliraem Manuscript 249 

Encamp ISO Ephraim, 1 250 

Enchantment 183 Ephraim, Tribe of.. 259 

Encratites (A.J.S.). 1SS Ephraim, Gate of. . . 253 
Encyclica (A.J S.). . 1S3 Ephraim, Wood of. . 25 5 

Encyclopedia of The- Ephraim, 2 254 

ology 189 Ephraim, 3 254 

Encyclopedia, Fr. . . 190 Ephraimite 254 

En-dor 192 Eph rain 254 

En-eglaim 192 Ephratah, 1 254 

Knemessar 193 Ephratah, 2 255 

Enenius 193 ! Ephratah, 3 255 

Energici 193 Ephrathite, 1 255 

Knergnmens 193 Ephrathite, 2 255 

Enfantin (A.J.S.). . . 193,Kphrem Syrue 255 

Enfield 193'Ephron, 1 257! 

Engnddi 194 Ephron, 2 257. 

En-gannini, 1 194 Ephron, 3 257; 

En-gannim, 2 194 Ephron, 4 257, 

En-gedi 194 Epicrates 257 

Engedi, Wilderness Epicurean Philoso- 257 

of 195 1 phy (G.F.1I.) .... 257, 

Engelbert (A.J.S,).. 135 Epicureans 259j 

Engelbert, Saint (A. 195 Epimcnile* 25) 

J.S.) 195 Epiphn ties 259 

Engelbrecht 195 Epiphanes (son of 253 

Engelhardt (A.J.S.) 195 Carpocrates) 259 1 

Engine 190 Epiplianius 259| 

England, Church of. 197 Epiplianius, St. (A. 

Engles, Joseph Fat- | J.S.) 2G1| 

teivon 208 Epiplianius, Scholas- 

F.ngles, William M. . 20S ticus 2G1 1 

English Versions of Epiphany (A.J. S.). . 201 Establishment... 

the Bible 208 Kpiphi 202 Esther 

Engrave 223 Episcopacy 202 Esther, Book of. . 

Kn-haddali 223 Episcopalians 207 Esther, Apocryphal 

Kn-hakkore 223 Episcopius, Simon. . 207: Additions to 311 

En-harod 223 Episeopus Episcopo- 208 Esther, Fast of. M3 Eustoehimn 303 Ezbai 429 

En-hazor 223 rum 20S Estius 313 Euthalins 303 Fzhon, 1 429 

En-mishpat 223 Episeopus in Parti- Etnm, 1 3.13 Kuthymius Zignbc- Ezbon, 2 429 

Enmity 223| bus 208 Ktam, 2 313 nus 3.04 Kzechias, 1 429 

lutyches (A.J.S.) . . 304 Kzechias, 2 429 

... 429 
. . . 4 29 

.. , , , , * V,. 429 

Enoch, 4 225 1" - 


270 Ethiopian 332 Evangelical Associa- 

270 Ethiopian Eunuch.. 332 i tion(R.Y.) 307 

270 Ethiopian Woman . 332 Evangelical Church 

277 Ethiopians 332 Conference 3.03 

277 Ethiopic Language. 332 Evangelical l/nion > 370 

277 Ethiopic Version ... 334 Evangelist 370 

277[Ethma 335, Evangelistarium ... 371 

277 Ethnan 335|Evangelium ./Eter- 

277jEthnarch 335 mini 3:1 

279 Ethni 335 Evans, Caleb. .. 371 

. 279 Ethnology 335, Evans, Christmas ’. 371 

. 2S0 Etshniiadzin 343 Evans, John 372 

. 2S0 Ettwein (E. de S.). . 343 Kvanson ..." 379 

280 Eubulus 844 Evaristus 372 

280. Eucharist 344 Evaits 37J 

2S1 jEuchel 341 Eve 372 

2S1 Euchelaion 344! Evelyn 373 

2sl Eucherius (A.J.S.).. 344 Evening 373 

2S1 Euchologion 344 Even-hong 373 

2S1] Eu daemon (A.J.S.).. 844 Everett 373 

2S1 Eudfemonism (A.J. (Eves 374 

251 S.) 344 Evi 374 

281 Elides 345 Evidence 374 

282 Eudocia £45 Evidences of Chris- 

282 J Eudoxia 345 tianityi 375 

252 Eudoxius 345 Evil 8S1 

282iEuergctes 345 

2S3[Engenicus 340 

2^3 Eugenius! 340 

253 Eugenius IF 340 

2.8.3 Eugenius 111 340 

254 Eugenius IV 34c 

£S7|Eugippius (A.J.S.).. £4' 

2S7 Euhemerus 347 

Eulalia (A.J.S.). . . . 347 
2S7j Fulal ins (J.1I.W.). .. 34s 

* Eulogia ,°4S 

2S9 Eulogius 848 

2.89 Eulogi us of Cordova 34S 

lS9,Eunatan 348 

290. Eunice 84S 

290 Emnenes 34s 

291 Eunomians 349 

Eimomius (A.J S.) . 349 

Eunuch 350 

Eunuchs 351 

297 Euodias 351 

297 Euphrates 351 

297 Euphrates (bishop of 
297 1 Cologne) (A. J.S.).. 354 

297 Eupolemus 354 

297 Euroclydon £54 

297 Europe (A.J.S.) 855 

298 Eusebians 355 

298 Eusebius £55 

298 Eusebius of Alexan- 

L9S 1 dria (A.J.S.) 

28S Eusebius Bruno (A. 

20S [ J.S.) 

288 Eusebius of Ca? area 350 

299 , Eusebius of Dory la>- 
299 1 11 m 3C0 

299 Eusebius (bishop of 

299) Kmesa) 3C0 

299 Eusebius (a Nitrinn 

289 j monk) 300 

300 Eusebius of Laodi- 

300 1 cea (A.J.S.) 301 

800 Eusebius of Xicome- 
£00j dia 361 


Evil-merodach SSI 

Evil-speaking 3S2 

Evodius (A.J.S.)... 382 

Ewald £s2 

Ewe 382 

Ewer 3S2 

Ewing, Finis (J.B. 

E.). 383 

Ewing, John £S3 

Exactions (A.J.S.). . 3^4 

Exactor 384 

Exaltation of Christ 3S4 

Example 384 

Example (a copy or 

pattern) 3S4 

Fxaich £84 

Exchanger 384 

Excommunication.. 386 

Exeat 390 

Execration 390 

Execution 390 

Executioner 3 2 

Exedra? 392 

Exegelical Theology 392 

Exemption 393 

Exercise 393 

Exercises 394 

Exhortation 394 

Exhorters 394 

Exile 394 

I xocontians 390 

Exode 390 

Exodus 411 

Exomologesis 415 

Exorcism 415 

Expectancy (A.J.S.) 419 
Expectation Week. . 419 

Expediency 419 

Experience 419 

Experience (in phi- 
losophy and relig- 
ion) 419 

Experience Meetings 420 
’ Expiation, Jew ish . . 420 


•.srom 

Ess, Karl van (A.J. I Eusebius ofVercelli 301 Expiation' (a reli^ 

» .) £00 Eusebius, St., of Sa- j ions act) 420 

Ess, Eeander van (A. | mosata (A.J.S.).. 302 'Exposition 424 

J.S.) £00 Eusebius (bishop of Kxsnperins 4 4 

Essence 3 »l| Thessalonica) . . . . 302 Extravagant.* 424 

Kssenes 301 Eustathians 302 Extreme Unction. . . 424 

Cssenius 305 Eustathius of Anti- Eye 420 

3< 5 oeh 303 Eylert 4 8 

300j Eustathius of Thes- |Ey meric 429 

salonica (A.J.S.). 3C3 Eyre 429 

Eustathius (bishop [Eysfer (M. E.S.) 429 

of Sebaste) 303 Ezar 429 


30S 


Ennodius 2241 Episeopus <Eeume:i- 

Enoch, 1 224, icus 

Enoch, 2 224 Epistle 


Enoch, 5 225 

Enoch, Book of. 

Enos 230 

E.nosh 230 

En-rimmon 230 

I n-rogel 230 

Enrolment 231 


208 

Ktam, 2 



Eternal 

.... 313 1 

208 

Eternal Life 

... 314,1 

268 

Etham 

... 317 1 

270 

Ethan, 1 ...... . 


273 

Ethan, 2 



Ezekiel,!... 
stantinople 300 Ezekiel, 2 429 


1 Ethan. 3 3 IS, Eutychius (patriarch Ezekiel, Book of. .. . 429 


Epistohe 274 

Epistola-Ubscuronmi Kthanim 31Sj of Alexandria) .. . 300 Ezel 

Virortini (A.J.S.). 274 Ethbaal 

Epistola? lTjpstant:- Ethellurt 

um Virorum 275 tfthelwold (A.J.S.) . 

Epistolare i75 Ether 

!• pistolarium 275 Etheridge 


31S Eutychns . 300 Ezem 

318 Eva grins Eon ticus. 300 Ezrr 

318 Evagrius Scholasti- lEzer, 1 

318: cus 300 Ezer, 2 

3»9 Evangelical 307 Eze ’, 3 


434 

434 

434 

434 

434 

434 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. III. 


1045 


Kzer, 4 Pag.} 

Kzer, 5 

Kzerias 

Fzias 

Ezion-geber 

Fznite 

Ezra, 1 

Ezra, ‘2 

Ezra, 3 

!• zra, Book of 

Ezra, 4 

Ezrah 

Fzrahite 

Ezri 

Eaber, Basil 

l'aber, Eelix 

Faber, George S. . . . 

l'aber, Gui 

Faber, Jacobus. ... 
Faber, J acobits S. . . 

Faber, Johann 

Faber, Johannes, 1 . 
Faber, Johannes, 2 . 
Faber, Johann Ernst 

(J.1I.NV.) 

Faber, Johann Mel- 
chior (J.ll.W.).. . 

Faber, Petrus 

Faber, Pierre F 

Fnbianus 

Fable 

Fabre 

Fabri (A.J.S.) 

Fabrica Ecclesiai (A. 

J.S.) 

l’abricius, Andreas. 
Fabricius, Christoph 

G 

Fabricius, Franciscus 
Fabricius, Georgius 
Fabricius, Johannes, 

1 

Fabrici us, Johannes, 

2 

Fabricius, Johan. A. 
Fabricius, Johann L. 
Fabricius, Lorenz. . 
Fabricius, Theodor. 

Fabricy 

Facciolati 

Face 

Faculties (A.J.S.). . 

Faculty 

Facundus 

Fad us 

Fagius 

Fagnani (A.J.S.). . . 

Fair 

Fairbanks 

Fair Havens 

Fairs 

Faith 

Faith, Rule of 

Faith and Reason 

(G.F.1I.) 

Faith of Jesns, Soci- 
e’y of the (A. J.S.) 

Faithful 

Fakir (J.W.M.).... 
Fahiqnsra (1.11 W.) 
Falashas (J.ll.W ). 
Falcandus (A.J S.). 

Falcon 

Falconer 

Faldistorium 

Falkner 

Fall of Man 

Fallow-deer 

Fallow ground 

Fallow year 

False Prophet 

l ama chimosa 

Familiars of the In- 
quisition 

Familiar Spirit 

Kamil ista 

Family 

Family, Iloly 

Famine 

Fan 

Fanaticism 

Fanino 

Fan -tracery Vault- 
ing 

Fare! 

Far fa (A.J.S.) 

Farindou 

Farissol 

Farm 


434 Farmer, Hugh. Page 

434 Farneworth 

434 Farnovius 

434 Farrant (J.W.M.).. 
434 Farthing, 1 

434 Farthing, 2 

435 Fassari (J.W.M.)... 
435 Fassoni (J.W.M.).. 

435 Fast 

435 Fastidius 

439 Fasting in the Chris- 

439) tian Church 

439 Fat (an old orthog- 

440 ) raphy for Vat) . . . 

Fat 

440j Fatalism 

440 Father 

44o] Father (God the) (G. 

440 ) F.C.) 

440 Father-in-law 

440 Father’s Brother.. . 

441 Fathers of the 

442j Church 

442 Fathom 

! Fatio du Duillers (J. 

442 W.M.) 

Fatling 

44 “2 Faton 

442 Fatted Fowl 

442 Faucher, Denis .... 
442 Faucher, Jean (J. 

443 1 W.M.) 

445 Fanchet (J.W.M.). . 

445jFancheur 

Faucliion 

445 Faukelius (J.P.W.) 

445 Faunt 

Faure, Charles 

445 Fa u re, Frunyois. . . . 

44G Faust 

440 Fausta (J.W.M.)... 
Faustinas (bishop of 

Lyons) 

Faustiuus (a priest 
of the Lnciferiaiis) 
Faustinus (bishop of 
Dax) (J.W.M)... 
Faust us Reiensis. . . 
Faustus, St., 1 (J. 

W.M.) 

Faustus, St., 2 (). 

W.M.) 

Faustus, the Mani- 
clia'an (A.J.S,). . . 
Fawcett, B njamin . 

Fawcett, John 

Fawcett, Joseph ... 

Fawkes 

Faydit (A.J.S.) .... 

Fear of God 

Feast 

Feasts 

Feast of Asses 

401 Feast of Fools 

(Feather 

4G4 Feathering 

I Feathers’ Tavern 

4071 Association 

407 Featly 

407 Feclit, 

40S Fedcr (A.J.S.) 

408 Federal Theology (C. 

403| P.W.) 

403 Feeling (A.J.S.). . . . 

470 Filth (J.P.W.) 

470. Felgenbaucr (A.J.S.) 

470 Feli bien 

470 Fel icissim us (A . J . S. ) 
475 Felicitas (a saint).. . 
470 Felicitas (a slave). . 
470 Felix (Roman p-o- 
470 curator of Judan) 
470 Felix, Martyr (A.J. 

I S.) 

477 FelixofXola (A.J.S.) 
477 Felix the Mnnichce- 

477! an (A.J.S.) 

47$ Felix (Jewish schol- 

479 ar) (J.ll.W.) 

479 Felix (bishop of L*r- 
4$l| gel) 

48 1 Felix I 

452 Felix II 

Felix HI 

482 Felix IV 

482 Felix V 

483’ Fell, John, 1 

453 Fell, John, 2 

4 -4 Fi llfnberg 

481 Feller 


4S5 Felloes Page 

4^5 Fellow 

4S5 l'ellowes. 

4S0 Fellowship (in a c,d- 

4S0| lege) 

4$0Fellowship (joint in- 

480; tcrest) 

480 Felt ham 

480 Felton 

430 Female Ecclesiastic 

Fence 

430 Fenced City 

Fencing the Tables. 

4^4 l-'enelon 

4 »4 Fenestella (G.F.C.). 

494 Fenner 

495 Fercter (G.F.C.) . . . 
Feretory (G.F.C.) . . 

49G Ferguson. Adam .. . 
490 Ferguson, James. . . 
490 1 Ferguson, Samuel I). 

Ferloni 

490 Ferme 

504 l'ennentarians 

Fernand 

504 Feme 

505 Ferrand 

505 Ferrar, Nicholas . . . 

505) Ferrar, Robert 

505 Ferrara, Council of. 

1 Ferrara, Duchcsse de 

505] Ferrari 

5i>5 Ferraris 

500 1 Ferrer, Bonifacio . . . 


50S 


509 


Ferrer, Rafael (A.J. 

S.) 

Ferre r, Vincenti us. . 

Ferret 

Ferrier 

Ferry 

Ferry-boat 

l'ems (A.J.S.) 

Fesch 

Fcsslcr 

Festival 

Festns 

Feti cliism 

5US Fetter 

Fcuguicres (J.P. W.) 
Feuillants (A.J.S.) . 

Fever 

Few 

Fiacre (A.J.S.) 

Fichte 

510 Ficinns (G.F.ll.)... 

510 l'iddes 

510 Fidejussores 

510 Fidelis 

51(HFidelium Missa .... 

510 Fief (G.F.ll.) 

511 Field 

51 2: Field, David Dudley 

514 Field, Richard 

514 Ficld-preaching 

514 Fifth-monarchy-nien 
514 (J.W.M.) 

I Fig 

514 Fig-tree, Cursed.... 

515 Fight 

515 Figure 

515 Fiji Islands (A.J.S.) 

I File 

515 Filiation 

520 l'ilioquc Controversy 

521 l'illan, St 

521 Fillet, 1 

521. Fillet, 2 

521 Fin 

522 Fine 

522 Finer 

Finger 

522 Fin ial (G.F.C.) .... 

1'ining-pot 

523 Finland (A.J.S.).... 

523 Finley, James B. ... 
Finley, John P. (G. 

523( L.T.) 

Finley, ltobert 

524 Finley, Robert S — 
Finlcv, Robert W. 

524 (U.L.T.) 

525 Finley, Samuel 

525, Finnan (1).D.) 

525 l inns 

525 I'intanus (A.J.S.).. 

525 Fir 

525 Fire 

520 l'irc-baptism 

520 Firebrand 

52G Firepan 


520 Fire-worship (J.W. 

520 M.) Page 

250 Firkin 

Firmament 

52C Finnicus 

Finnilian 

527 Finnin 

527 First-born 

527 First-born, Destruc- 

527 tion of. 

527 First-born, Saucti- 
527 1 fication and Re- 

529; demption of. 

529 First-fruit 

531 First-fruits 

531 Fi.'h 

531 Fish in Christian 

5311 Symbolism (G.F. 
5311 C.) 

532 Fishing 

532 Fisher 

532 Fisher, Edward .... 

532 j Fisher, John 

532 Fisher, Jonathan .. . 
532, Fisher, Richard Ad- 

532! urns (1 1.11.) 

532 1 Fish-Gate 

532 Fish-hook 

533 1 Fish-pool 

533 1 Fisli-spear 

533 Fisk, Ezra 

534 Fisk, Pliny 

534 Fisk, Wilbur 

534 Tiskc, John 


|Fiske, Nathan W. . . 

534 Fiske, Samuel 

534! Fist ulie 

534 Fitch 

535 Fitches, 1 

535 Fitches, 2 

535 Five-mile Act 

530 Five Points 

530 'Fla ecus 

53CjFlacians 

537 Flacius 

540 Flag, 1 

540] Flag, 2 

540 Flag (a banner). . . . 

541 [Flagellants 

541 Flagon, 1 

542 Flagon, 2 

542 Flake 

542 Flamboyant 

542 Flame 


545 Flamen (J.W.M.).. 5sS 

540 Flank 589 

546 Flatt, Johann Jakob 5S 4 
54 5 Matt, Johann F. . . . 5S9 
540 Flatt, Karl Chri.-tian 589 

547 Flattich (A.J.S.) ... 589 

551' Flavel 5S9 

551 Flavianus (patriarch 

551 1 of Anticch) 530 

552 Flavianus of C 011 - 

[ stantinople 590 

553] Fla vigny 590 

553 Flax 590 

554 Flea 592 

555 1'lechicr 592 

557 Fledgling 592 

557 Fleece 592 

558 Fleetwood 592 

558] Fleming, Robert, l . 593 
55Sl Fleming, Robert, 2 . 593 


] Flore (A.J.S.) .Page 
5G7 Florence, Council of 
5GS Florentius Radewins 

508 Florian, 1 (A.J.S.).. 

509 Florian, 2 (A.J.S.). . 

509 Florida 

570 Floridians 

570 Floms, Drepanius. . 

l lorus, Ccssius 

570 I lour 

Flower (blossom) . . . 

(Flower (ornament). 

571 Flowers (female)... 

572 i Flowers 

574 Floy 

574 Floyd 

iFludd 

1 lire 

575 Flute 

579 Flutes (G.F.C.).... 

5S0 Flux. 

5^0 Fly 

5.80 Flying bul tress .... 
5S0 Fo 

Foal 

Foam 

Fodder 

Foggini 

Fold 

Follen 

Font 

Fonseca 

Fontc Avellana (A. 

J.S.) 

Fontcin (J. P.W.) . . 

Foutcnny 

Font6vrault (A.J.S.) 

Food 

Food, Spiritual 

Fool 

Foot 

Foot, Joseph Ives. . . 
Foot, Kissing of the 

Pope’s 

Footman 

Footsteps 

Footstool 

Foot- washing 

Foot-washing in the 
Christian Church 

(J.N.P.) 

Forbes, Right lion. 
Duncan (J.ll.W.) 

Forbes, Eli 

Forbes, John 

Forbes, Patrick .... 
Forbes, William. . . . 

Forccllini 

Forces 

Ford 

Ford, Joshua E 

Fordyce, David .... 
Fordyce, James. . . . 

Forehead 

Foreigner 

Foreiro 

Forer 

Forerunner 

Foreship 

Foreskin 

Foreskins, Hill of. . 

Forest 

Fork 

Forgiveness 


G92 

(.02 

G03 

C03 

004 

004 

004 

004 

004 

004 

005 
005 
005 
005 
005 
GoG 
GOO 
G9G 
COO 
000 
G07 
G07 
GOS 
Of 8 
GOS 
GOS 
GOS 
009 
G09 

009 

609 

610 

010 
CIO 
G10 
G10 
Gil 
G13 
G13 
C13 

014 

C14 

C14 

015 
Gl5 
GI5 


5 GO 
501 
501 

Fleming, Thornton 
Flemming 

593 

Forgiveness of sin.. 
F nrn 1 

Flentcs 

593 

Formosus I 

501 

Flesh, 1 

593 

Forms of Prayer . . . 

5G1 

Mesh, 2 

593 

Formularies 


Flesh (theological 
term) 


Fornication 

501 

594 

l'oroj Lilian M ami* 

501 

Flesh and blood. ... 

5:5 

script 

501 

Flesh-hook 

595 

Forskal 

501 

Flesh-pot 

595 

Forster, Bartholo* 

562 

Fletcher, Alexander 

595 

maus 


Fletcher, John 

595 

Forster, Johann 

5G3 

Fletcher, Joseph . . . 

590 

Forster, Nathaniel.. 

5G3 

] Flcury 

530 

Forster, William .. . 

563 

j Fliedncr. 

597 

Fort 


1 linn 

598 

iFoi*tia d* Urban (J. 

503 Flint. 

53 S 

W.M.)..* 

503 

Flint, Abel 

598 

Fortification 

503 Float 

598 

Fortress 

504 Flock, 1 

539 

Fortnnatianus (J.W, 

564 Flock, 2 

599 

M.) 

5G 4 Mod card 


iFortunatus (a disei- 

505 Floh (J.P.W.) 

599 

j pie of Antioch).. 

500 Flohr (M.L.S.) 

599 

Fortunatus, Venan- 

500 Flood 



507 Floor 

002 

Fos brook e 


G15 

GIG 

GIG 

C1G 

G17 

017 

017 

017 

017 

on 

018 
01s 
018 
018 
G19 
019 
019 
019 
019 
019 
G20 
G21 
021 
G22 
022 
G23 
(3 3 
C25 
G25 

C2G 

C2G 

gcg 

. G2G 
02 G 
G2G 
G'.G 

C2G 

G27 

G28 

’ G2S 

, G£S 

G'S 

C28 


1 04G 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN YOL. IIL 


Foster, Benjamin (L. 

E.S.) Page G28 

Foster, James (UE. 

S.) 629 

Foster, John (L. E. 

S. ) G29 

Fothergill (J.W.M.) 029 
Foueher (J. W.M.). . G29 
I'oulis (J.W.M.).... G29 
Foundling Hospitals 

(J.W.M.) G3> 

Fountain G31 

Fountain-gate G32 

Fouquero ( I. W.M). 632 
Fouqtiet (J.S.M.). .. 032 
Fourier, Franpois C. 

M 633 

Fourier, I’ierre (J. 

W.M.) G33 

Fourmont (J.W.M.) G33 

Fowl G33 

Fowler 634 

Fowler, Christopher J 

(J.W.M.) 635 

Fowler, Edward.... 630 

Fowler, Orin G3G 

Fowles (J.W.M.)... G3G 

Fox GBG; 

Fox, Edward 638 ' 

Fox, George G3S 

Fox, John G39| 

Fox, Richard (J.W. 

M.) G39 

Fox, William J G39 

Fraehet (J.W.M.)., C39 

Frame 639 

France G39 j 

Francis of Assisi. . . 648 j 
Francis of Borgia... 649 
Francis of Paula... 649 
Francis of Sales. . . . G50 
Francis, Converse. . 650 
Francis I (J.W.M.) . 660 
Franciscans (A. J.S.) 650 
Fran i.sco de Vitto- 

ria (J.W.M.) 662 

Francke, August II. 652 
Francke, Theophil 

A. (J.W.M.) 653 

Francken, JEgidius I 

(J.P.W.) 654 

Francken, Christian 

(J.W.M) 654 

Francois, Laurent 654 

(J.W.M.) : 654 

Franfois de Tou- 
louse (J.W.M.).. . 654 

Francus 654 

Frank 654 

Fran ken berg 655 

Frankfurt, Council 

of 655 

Frankfurter (J.1I. 

W.) 655 

Frankincense 655 

Franz 657 

Fraser, Alexander 

(J.W.M.) 657 

Fraser, James (tJ. W. 

M.) 657 

Frassen 657 

Fraternity (A.J.S.) . 657 

Fratrieelli 65S 

Frauds 658 

Frayssinom G5S 

Fredegise (J.W.M.). 65s 
Frederiks (J. P. W.) . 659 
Free Congregations 

(A.J.S.) 659 

Freedom 659 

Free Offering 659 

Freeke (J .W.M.)... 659 

Freeman 660 

Freeman, James. ... 660 
Free lleligious Asso- 
ciation (A.J.S.). . . 660 

Free-thinkers 660 

Frellnghuysen, The- 
odoras J. (W.J.R. 

T. ) 660 

Frelinghnysen, Rev. 

Theodore (W.J. R. 

T.) 6G0 

Frelinghnysen, J olm 

(W.J.R.T.) 660 

Frelinghnysen, The- 
odore (W.J.R.T.) 661 
French, William. .. 661 
French Prophets... 66. 
French Version* . . . 662 


F re ret (J. W. M . ) Page 
Fresco Painting (G. 

F.C.) 

Fresenius (A.J.S.). . 
Frey, Jean L. (J.W. 

M. ) 

Frey, Josepli S. C. F. 

(L.E.S.) 

Freya (J.W.M.). . . . 
Freylinghausen (J. 

N. P.) 

Freyr (J.W.M.). . . . 

Friar 

Frick, Albert (J.W. 

M.) 

Frick, Elias 

Frick, Johann (J.W. 

M.) 

Friday 

Fridegode (J.W.M.) 

Fridolin 

Friedlander (J. II. 

W.) 

Friend 

Friendly Islands (A. 

J.S.) 

Friends, Society of . 
Friends (No. 1) (W. 

J. A.) 

Friends (No. 2) (S. 

M.J.) 

Friends, Progressive 

(O.J.) 

Friends of God (J. 

II. W.) 

Fries, Jacob F 

Fries, Justus lienry 

(1L II.) 

Friese (J.W.M.).... 
Friesland (A.J.S.). . 

Frieze 

Frigga (J.W.M.) . . . 

Fringe 

Print (A.J.S.) 

Frisbie 

Frischmuth (J.W. 

M.) 

Frith 

Frithstool 

Fritigild 

Fritz (J.W.M.) 

Fritzsehe, Christian 

Friedrich 

Fritzsehe, Karl F. A. 
Fritz! nr (J.N.P.). . . 

Frog 

Fro ssard de Broissia 

(J.W.M.) 

Fromage (I.W.M.). 

Fromment 

Fromond 

Front (G.F.C.) 

Frontier 

Frontlet 

Froriep 

Frossard ( J. W. M. ) . 

Frost 

Froude 

Fructuosus 

Fruit 

Fruit (metaphorical) 

Fruit-tree 

Frumenties 

Fruytier (J.P.W.). . 

Frye 

Frying-pan 

Fuel 

Fugitive 

Full-lie (J.T.G.)..., 

Fulhert 

Fnlcherius (J.W.M.) 

Ftilco 

Fulda, monastery of 
Fulda Manuscript. . 

Fulfil 

Fnlgentius, St.,. . . . 
Fulgcntius, Ferran- 

dus 

Fulke 

Fullenius (J.P.W.). 

Fuller 

Fuller’s Soap 

Fuller’s Field 

Fuller’s Gate 

Fuller’s Monument. 
Fuller, Andrew (L. 

E.S.) 

Fuller, Thomas. . . . 
Fullerton 


CG3 Fulness Page 

I’ul via 

664 lTmek (J.W.M.) ... 

664 Functionaries 

Fundamentals 

CC4 Funeral 

, Funeral Discourses. 

664 Furlong. 

665 Furman (L.E.S.)... 

(Furnace 

665 Furnaces, Tower of. 
665 Furneaux (J.W.M.) 

G65 Furniture 

Furrow 

665 Furseus 

6 J5 Fury 

Fyne (J.P.W.) 

665 1 

665 Gaab 

GOGGaal 

GGG Gaash 

jGaba 

666 Gaba (a town) 

660 Gabael, 1 

Gabael, 2 

667 Gabala 

607 Gabara 

Gabatha. 

Gabatha (a village) 

Gabbai 

Gabbatha 

Gabdes 

Gabe 

Gabinius 

Gabler, Georg An- 
dreas (A.J.S.). ... 
Gabler, Johann P.. . 

Gabrias 

Gabriel 

Gabriel de Chinon . 

Gabriel Sionita 

Gabriel, St., Congre- 
gation of (A.J.S.) 

Gaehes 

Gad, 1 

Gad, Tribe of 

Gad, 2 

Gad, 3 

Gadara 

Gadarene 

Gaddi 

Gaddiel 

Gadi 

Gadite 

Gadsden 

Gaffarel 

Gage, Thomas 

Gage, William 

Gagelin (J.N.P.)... 

Gagnier 

G81 Galiam 

GS2 Gahar 

682 Gaianitse 

632 1 Gail lard 

082 Gaisford 

CS3| Gains, 1 

653 Gains, 2 

GS3 Gains, 3 

CS3 .Gains, 4 

6S3|Galaad 

654 Galal,l 

684 Gala], 2 

CSbGalanos 

6^5 Galante, Abraham 

685 ben- Mordeeai (J. 

CSG| 1I.W.) 

686 1 Galante, Moses ben- 
C^G| Mordeeai (J.ll.W.) 

687 Galatia 

687 Galatian 

687 Galatians, Epistle to 

688 Galbanum 

688 Gale, John (L.E.S.) 

088 Gale, Theophil us .. . 
OS'.) Gale, Thomas 

689 Galeed 

639 Galen (J.P.W.) .... 

Galenists 

690 .Galenas 

690 G.ilgala 

G90 Galieho (J.ll.W.) .. 

690 Galiliean 

691 (ialiheans 

691 Galilee 

691 Galilee, Sea of 

692 Galilee (a porch) (G. 

| F.C.) .*. 

692 Galileo Galilei (A.J. 

642 1 S) 

6J2 Gall 


692 

693 
693 
693 

693 

694 

696 

697 
097 

697 

698 
G9S 
698 

698 

699 
699 
699 

699 

699, 

699 
Too, 

700 
700 
700 
700 
700 
700 
700 
700 

700 

701 
701 
701 


701 

701 

701 

702 
702 
702i 

702 
To;; 

703 
703 
705 
7051 
706 1 
707 
707 
707 
707 
707 

707 
70S 1 
70S 
70S 
70S 

708 
70s 
70S 
70S 
70S; 

709 
709 
709 
709 
709 
709 
709 
709 
709 


. 720 


Gall, St., monastery 

of Page 

Gall, St., Manuscript 

Galland 

Gallas (A.J.S.) 

Gallaudet 

Gallery 

Gallery (of a church) 

Galley 

Gallican Church . . . 
Gallieau Confession. 

Galientis 

Gallim 

Gallio 

Gallitzine 

Gallows 

Galluppi (J.W.M.) . 

Gallus, Cestins 

Gall us, C. Yibitis Tre- 

boniantis 

Gallus, St 

Gallns, Thomas. . . . 

Gamael 

Gamala 

Gamaliel, 1 

Gamaliel, 2 

Gamaliel bar Simon 

Gamba 

Gam bold 

Games 

Gammadim 

Gamnl 

Ganges (J.T.G.)... 

Gangra 

Gano, John 

Gano, Stephen 

Gans (J.ll.W.) .... 

Gap 

Gar 

Garasse 

Garcia, D. F rancisco 

(J.N.P.) 

Garcia, Gregor ia .. . 

Garden 

Gardener 

Garden-house 

Gardiner, James.. . . 
Gardiner, Stephen . 

Gareb, 1 

G areb, 2 

Gargoyle (G.F.C.). 

Garissoles 

Garizim 

Garland 

Garlands 

Garlic 

Garment 

Garmite 

Garner 

Garnet 

Garnett 

Gamier, Jean 

Gamier, Julien .... 

Garnish 

Garrettson (G. L.T.) 

Garrison 

Garsis. 

Garve 

Garves (M.L.S.).., . 

Gary (G.L.T.) 

Gasliin n 

Gassendi (G.F.1I.) . 

Gassner 

Gastrell 

iGataker, Charles.. . 
Gataker, Thomas.. . 

Gatam 

Gat eh 

Gate 

Gath 

Gatli-hepher 

Gath-rimmon 

Gaubil 

Gauden 

Gaudentius 

Gaultier (J.W.M.).. 
Gaume (A.J.S.). . . . 

Gaurs 

Gaussen, Etienne (J. 

W.M.) 

Craussen, Louis 

Gautbei t (A.J.S.) . . 
Gavanti (J.W.M.). . 

Gay 

Gay de Vernon .... 

Gay ley. 

Gaza 

Gazara 

Gaza res 

Gazathite 


(Gazelle Page 757 

722 Gazer 

722 Gazera, 1 

722 Gazera, 2 

722 Gazet (J.W.M.) 

723 Gazt z, 1 

723 Gazez, 2 

T23|Gazite 

724 Gazzam 

724 Geba, 1 

726 Geba, 2 

726 Gebal, 1 

726iGebal, 2 

727 Geber 

727 Gebliard 

7^7 Gebini 

727 Gedaliali, 1 

727,Gedaliah, 2 

jGedaliah, 3 

728 Gedaliali, 4 7G<) 

728 Gedaliali, 5. . . 

728 Geddes, Alexander . 7i 
728 Geddes, Janet. 

728 Geddes, Michael.... 7< 

72s,Geddur 

72s,Gedeon, 1 

729 Gedeon, 2 

72. (Geder 

729 Gederah 

729|Gederathite 

734 Gederite 

735 Gederoth 

735 Gederothaim 

737 Gedor, 1 

73MGedor, 2 

73S Gedor, 3 

73S,Gee 

73s Geffoken (A.J.S.) . . 

738 | Gegna?sius 

73S,Geliazi 

Gehenna 

73S|Geibel (A.J.S.) 

73s Geier 

739 1 Geiger, Franz T. (J. 

742 1 N.P.) 

742 Geiger, Jacob (11.11.) 

742 Geiler von Kaisers- 

742 berg 

743 Gebsenhainer (M.L. 

743 S.) 7G5 

743 Geistweit (11.11)... 765 
~G5 

65 
05 

65 

66 
CG 
66 
66 
CG 

67 
08 
(18 

68 
OS 


;;S 

5S 

58 

53 

5S 

'59 

758 

'5S 

58 

58 

59 

59 
G'l 

60 
60 
GO 
CO 
60 


743 Gelasius Cyziceuus. 

743 Gelasius of Caesarea 

743 Gelasius I 

744jGelasius II 

744 Geldenlmur 

744 Geliloth 

744 Gel 1 

745 Gellatly 

745 Gellert 

745 Gem 

745 Gem alii 

745 Gemariah, 1 

740 Gemariah, 2 

745 Geuealogy 

740 Genealogy of Jesus 

740 Christ 

74G Genebrard 

746 General 

746 Generation 775 

746 Genesis 776 

746 Genesius, St 784 

74s Genet 785 

74S,Genethliaei 

748 Geneva (A.J.S ). . . . 


Genevieve, St 

Genevieve, St., Can- 
ons of (A.J.S.) — 
Genevieve, St., Daugh 
ters of (A.J.S.).. . 

Gennadins, 1 

753 Gennaditis, 2 

753 Genuad ius, Masaili- 

753| ensis 

754 Gennams 

754 Gennath 786 

754 Geutiesar 

754 Gennesaret (town). . 

jGennesaret(distiiet) 7S7 
754 Gennesaret (lake) . . 

754 Genoude (A.J.S.).. . 

755 Genovesi 

755 Gentile 

755 Gen tills 

75)5 Gen till ct 

755 Gentilly 

755 Genubath 

757 Genuflectentes 


757 Gen uflection 790 

157' Geoffrey of Auxerre 


LIST OF ARTICLES EST VOL. III. 


1047 


Geoffrey of Mon- Geshuri Pnge 

mouth Page 790 Gesselius (J.P.W.) . 

Geography 790 Gessner 

Geology 794 Gether 

Geou 809 Gethsemane 

George (duke of Sax- | Geuel 

on y) SOI) Geulinx (A.J.S.)... 

George (elector) ...» 809 Gezer 

George, bishop Knocli Gezrite 

(G.L.T.) 809 Gfrdrer (A.J.S.) . . . . 

George of Laodicea. S10 Ghnzzali 

George of Poleuz.. . 8 10 Ghislain 

George of Trebizond 810 Ghost 

George (prince of An- < Biostly 

halt) filO Giah 

George, St 811 Giant 

George theArian... Si I Gib 

George the Pisidian Sll Gibhar 

Georgia (A.J.S.). ... S12,Gibbethon 


Georgian Language S13 Gibbites 

Georgian Version. . . 811) Gibbon 

Georgius Syncellu3. SI 4 Gibbons 

Gephrus.. SI 4 Gibborim 

Gera, 1 S 14 Gibbs 

Gera, 2 SI 4 Gibea 

Gera, 3 feUGibeah 

Gerali SU Gibeah of Benjamin 

Gerando SU Gibeah of Jndali . . . 

Gerar..-. SU Gibeah of Phinehaa 

Gerard, Alexander . S 15 Gibea thite 

Gerard, Gilbert .... S15 Gibeon 

Gerard, Thom S15 Gibeonite 

Gerasa S15 Giblite 


Gerasenc 810 

Gerauld 810 

Gcrbais 817 

Gerberon S17 

Gerhert 817 

Gerbillon S17 

Gerdes SI 7 

Gerdil 817 

Gerget-cne SIS 

Gergesite SIS 

Gerhard, Johann. . . SIS 
Gerhard, Job. K., 1 . SIS 
Gerhard, Job. K., 2 . SIS 

Gerhard, St 61 S 

Gerhardt 819 

Gerliocli (A.J.S.). . . 819| 

Gerizim S19 ( 

Gerlach 823 

Gerle (J.W.M.) . . .. S23 
Germain, St., en Lay e 323 
Germain, St., Manu- 
scripts S23 

German Catholics 

(A.J.S.) S23 

German lief. Ch. in 
America (E.V.G.) 824 

Gernianus 1 S31 

German us 11 8:il 

German us 111 S31 

Germnnus of Aux- 

erre, St 832 

Gernianus, St. (of 

Pari*) S32 

German Versions. . . 832 
Germany, Ancient 
Religion of(J.N. P.) S34 
Germany, History of 
Christianity in (A. 

J.S.) 834 

Cierebulus (J.P.W.) 335 

Geroda 835 

Gerrlienian 835 Gilgal. 

Gershom, 1 830 Gilgal, 2 

Gershom, 2 830 Gilgal, 3 

Gershom, 3 830 Gill, Alexander . . . 

Gershom, 4 S30 Gil], John (L.E.S.). 

Gerslion S30 Gill, William 

Gersh unite 830 (lilies 

Gerson 8 ’.0 1 Gillespie 

Gerson, Jean 0 830 Gillies, John, 1 

Gertrude, St., 1 . . . . S3S 

Gertrude, St., 2 838 

Geniphina s3S 

Gervaise, Franyois- 

A rm and S3S 

Gervaise and Pro- 

taisc S3S 

Ger vase of Canter- 


Gibson, Edmund . . . 

Gibson, Robert 

Gibson, Tobias 

Gibson, William .... 

Gichtel 

Giddalti 

Giddel, 1 

Giddel, 2 

G id dings 

Gideon 

Gideoni 

Gidom 

Gier-eagle 

Giescler 

Giffen (J.P.W.).... 

Gift 

Gifts, Spiritual 

Gifttheil (J.N.P.) . . 

Giger 

Gilion, 1 

Gibon, 2 

Gil 

Gilalai 

ilbert de la Purree 
Gilbert, Kliphalet W. 
Gilbert, Gad Smith. 

Gilbert, Joseph 

Gilbert of Sempring- 

ham, St 

Gilboa 

Gildas 

Gilder 

Gilead, 1 

Gilead, Palm of. . . . 

Gilead, 2 

Gilead, 3 

Gilead, 4 

Gilead, 5 

Gilead, 0 

Gileadite 

Giles 


840 Gira Ulus Cambren- 

S41 sis Page 

S41 Girdle 

541 Girgashite 

841 Girl 

842 Gisborne 

842 Giscliala 

542 Gispa 

543 Gitta 

S43 Gittuh-hepher 

543 Gittaim 

843 Gittite 

544 Gittith 

844 Gizonite 

844 Glagolita (A.J.S.). . 

844 Glanvil 

840 ( rlaphyra 

S40 Glareanus (J.N.P.). 

S4G Glas 

S 10 Glass 

84G Glass-painting (G.F. 

S47 C.) 

S47 Glass, Salomo 

545 Glastonbury 

S4S Glatz (A.J.S.) 

848, Glean 

S4S Glebe 

849 Glede 

S49 Glendy* 

S49 | Glenorchy 

549 Gloria in Excelsis.. 

S52, Gloria Patri 

S53 Glorify 

S53 Glory 

553 Glory of God 

853 Glory (ray of light) 

853 (G.F.C.) 

853 Gloss 

S54; Glosses (J.X. P.). . . . 

554 Gloucester 

854i Gloves 

S54 Glutton 

S54|Gnapheus (J.P.W.) 

550 Gnash 

856 Gnat 

850 Gnesen (A.J.S.). .. . 

Gnosimachi 

Gnosticism (C. P. 

W.) 

Goa (A.J.S.) 

Goad 

Goad, Thomas 

Goadby 

Goar, Jacques 

Goar, St. (J.N.P.) . . 

Goat 

Goats’ Hair 


SG4 Goatli. 
S04 
SG4 


bury (J.W.M.)... 

838 

Gesem . . 

839 

Gesenius, Friedrich 


11. W. 

839 

Gesenius, Justus (J. 


N.P.) 

839 

Ge.sham 

S39 

Geshem 

sir 

Gesliiu* 

S3C 


iillies, John, 2 

Lilly, David 

Lilly, William S . . . 

Gilman 

Giloh 

(lilonite 

Gilpin, Bernard.... 
Gilpin, Richard 
Gilpin, William 

Gils (J.P.W.) 

Gimzo 

Gin 

Gina 

Ginath 

Ginnetho 

Ginnctlion 

Giober.i (J.N.P.)... 


Gob 

Gobel (A.J.S.) 

Goblet 

Goch 

God 

Goddard (UE.S.). .. 

Godeau 

Godfrey of Bouillon 

Godhead 

Godliness 

God man 

Godwin, Francis. . . 
Godwin, Thomas. . . 

Goel 

Goepp v 

Goering (M.L.S.). .*. 

Goerres 

Goertner (M.L.S.), . 
Goeschel (A.J.S.) . . 
Goettingen (A.J.S.) 
Goetze, Georg 11. . . 

Goctze, John M 

Goffinc (A.J.S.).... 

1 

Gog, 2 

Gogerly 

Goguet 

Goim 

Going (L.E.S.) 

Golan 

Gold 

Golden Chlf 

Golden City 

Golden Legend 

Golden Number. . . . 

Golden Rose 

Golden Wedge 

Goldsmith 

Golgotha 

S74|Goli th 

874 (folin *, Jacobus ,J. 
87-i | PAY.) 


I Colins, Petrus (J.P. 

S75l W.) lage 

870 Gomar 

877 Gomer, 1 

878 Gomel*, 2 

878 Gomorrah 

S7S Goinorrha 

S7S Gondulf 

87 S Gonesius 

STS Gonfalon 

878 Gonzalez de Berceo 

S7S (A.J.S.) 

879 Gonzalez, Tirso .... 

879 Good 

S79 Good, John Mason. . 

879 Good Friday 

SSD; Goode 

8S0* flood ell 

SSO, Goodly Trees 

$80 Goodman of the 

| House.. 

8S2 Goodman, Christo- 

S82j pher 

883 Goodman, Godfrey . 
883 Goodness of God. . . 

553 Goodrich, Chauncey 

883 Allen 

883 Goodrich, IClizur . . . 

554 Goodrich, Thomas.. 

SS4 1 Goodwin, John 

884 1 Goodwin, Thomas. . 

8S5 1 Gopher 

8S5 Gophna 

885 Gordianus (A. J. S.) . 
SSO' Gordon, George N. . 

'Gordon, James 11... 
SS7 .Gordon, James L. . . 

555 Gordon, Robert 

SS9 Gorgias 

SS9 Gorham Case 

889 S G orion 

8S9 Goriun (A.J.S.).... 
SS9 Gorkum, the Mar- 
889 tyrs of (A.J.S.) . . 

889 Goiski 

890 (lor ton (J.W.M.)... 

$90 Gortyua 

Goshen, 1 

Goshen, 2 

Goshen, 3 

Gospel 

Gospel side of the 

Altar 

Gospeller 

Gospels 

Gospels, Spurious . . 

Gossip 

Gossner (A.J.S.) , . . 

Gotama 

Gothic Architecture 

(G.F.C.) 

Gothic Version .... 

Gotholias 

Gothoniel 

Goths 

Gottschalk 

Gouge, Thomas .... 
Gouge, William. . . . 
Goulavt, Simon, 1.. . 
Goulart, $imon, 2. . . 

91 1 Goulding 

911 Gourd, Jonah’s.. . . . 

911 Gourds, Wild 

912 Gousset 

912|Gouttes (J.N.P.) ... 

912 Government of the 

91 3 1 Hebrews 

913 Governor 

913 Govinda (A.J.S.). . . 

913 Gozan 

913 Grnal 

913 j Grata 

914 Grabe 

914 Grace 

9l4[Grace, Letters of. . . 

914 Grace at Meals 

914 Gradual 

914 Graduate 

915 Graeffe 

917 Graft 

917 Grafton (L.K.S.) ... 
917 Graham, Isabella.. . 
917|Graliam, Mary Jane 
917 Grain 

917 Gramma 

917! Granary 

918 Grandier 

919 Grandmont (A.J.S.) 
Grange (G.F.C.) . . . 

920, Grant, Asahel 


| Grant, Johnson. Page f GG 
920 Grantham 9GG 

920 Granvelle (J X.P.). 9GG 

920iGrapa 9GG 

921 Grapheus (A.J.S.). 967 

921 Grass 9G7 

922 Grasshopper 90S 

1-22 Grate 9GS 

922 Gratian 9(i8 

922 Gratianus l'G9 

Gratus 9G9 

922 Graul (A.J.S.) 1 09 

922 Grave 970 

922 Gravel 971 

923 [Graven Image .... 


171 

171 


971 

1)72 


Graverol 

Graves, 1 liram At- 

will (L.1C.S.) 

Graves, Richard. . . 

Graving 972 

Gray 973 

Gray Friars 973 

Gray, James 973 

Gray, Robert 973 

" reuse 974 

Great Britain and 
Ireland (A.J.S.). 974 

Greaves 975 

Grecia 975 

Grecian 975 

Grecian Architec- 
ture (G.F.C.) 975 

Greece 979 

Greece,Kingdom of 

(A.J.S.) 982 

Greek 982 

Greek Church (A. 

J.S.) 982 

Greek Church, Uni- 
ted (A.J.S.) 9FG 

Greek it-li 980 

Greek Language.. 9S0 
Greek Versions ... 9SS 

Green 990 

Green, Aslibel 990 

Green, William 990 

Greene 991 

Greenfield 991 

Greeuliam 991 

Greenhill 991 

Greenland (A J.S.) 991 

Greensky 

Greenwood 

Greeting 

Gregoire 

Gregor (E. de S.). . 

Gregorian 

Gregorian Chant. . 
Gregorius Agrigcn- 

tius 

Gregorius Alexan- 

drinus 

Grcgori its Antioch- 

ensis 993 

Gregorius Ocsari- 

ensis 

Gregorius Mona- 

ebus 

Gregorius Nazian- 

zenus 

Gregorius Neo-( ie- 

sariensis 

Gregorius Nyst-emia 
Gregorius Syracu- 

sainis 

Gregorius Turont n- 

sis 

Gregorius of Armc- 


991 

991 

991 

991 

992 
992 

992 

993 
993 


993 

993 


993 


9 5 
1 90 


C97 


Gregorius of Ratten 


901 Gregory of llciin- 


997 

99T 


902 ( burg 991 

902 1 Gregory (the Patri- 


902 arch (15. de S.). . 99 S 


9G3 


ofConstantinople) 

998 

J Gregory 1 

199 

Gregory 11 

1001 

Gregory III 

1001 

Gregory IV 

1001 

Gregory V 

Gregory VI (anti- 

1001 

pope) 

1001 

Gregory VI 

1001 

Gregory VII 

1001 

Gregory VIII 

1004 

'Gregory IX 

1004 

1 Gregory X 

1004 

'Gregory XI 

1005 

'i Gregory XII 

1005 


10-18 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. III. 


r. regoiy X 1 1 1 . Pa ge 

Gregory XIV 

Gregory XV 

Gregory XVI 

Gregory, George . . 

Gregory, John 

Gregory, Olinthus 

Gilbert 

Grellet (W.J.A.).. 

G region 

Gretser 

Greve, Egbert Jan. 

Greve, Jan 

Grey, Richard 

Grey, Zachary .... 

Greyhound 

Grief 

Grie-'bach 

Griffon (G. lb I > ) . . 
Griffin, Edmund 

I )nrr 

Griffin, Edward D. 
Griffith (L.E.S.) . . 

( Jrimshaw 

Grind 

Grindal 


1005 Griswold (J.W.M.) Guardian of the Guillon Page 1029 Gunther (A.J.S.) 

1005 Page 1019 Spiritualities, Page 1025 Guilty 1029 Pago 10; 

loi(5 Grits 1013 Guariu 1025 Guiscnrd (J.W.M.) 1029 Gur 10; 

1005 Grizzled 1013 Guastalliues 1025 Guise, House of (J. Gurbaal in: 

1000 Groin iG.F.C.). ... 1013 Glide 1025 W.M.) 1029 Gurley (J.W.M ).. 10C 

1000 Groningenists 1013 Gudgodali 1025 Guise, Charles (J. Gurnull (J.W.M.). 10" 

Grout 1013 Gudule 1025 W.M.) 1029 Gurney (W.J. A.) . 103 

1006 Gropper 1013 Guedier de Saint- Guise, Francois of jGury (A.J.S.) 1(3 

1000 Grosseteste (G.F. 1 Aubin 1025 Lorraine(J.W.M.) 1030 Gu-tuvus 1 (A.J.S.) 103 

1006 H.) 1013 Guelplis and G hi- Guise,! Ienry of Lor- [Gustavns II (A.J.S ) 103 

1007 Grostete 1017 bellines (J.W.M.) 1025 mine 1030 G ustavus- Adolphus 

1007 Grosvenor 1017 Guenee 1020 Gulf 1030 Society 1(3 

1007 Grot ins 1017 Guertler (J.1I.P.).. 1026 Gulieli (J.P. W.) . . 1030 Guth lac (J.W.M,). 103 

1007 Grove 1021' Guest-chamber. ... 1026 Gulloth 1030 Guthrie 103 

1007 Grove, llenry 1023 Guibert de Nogent Gundulf 1031 Gutter 1 3 

1007 Gruber 1023 (J.W.M.) 1026 Guni, 1 1031 Gutzlaff 103 

10 »7 Gruner 1023 Guibert (anti-pope) 1027 Guni, 2 1<*31 Guyon 103 

loos’ Grynams, Johann. 1023 Guide 1 027 G unite 1031 Gnyot 104 

1010,Gryna?iis,Johaim J. 1023jGuido de Arezzo.. 1027 Gunn, Walter (M. [Guy.-e 104 

Grymeus, Simon, 1 1024 Guido de Bres ... . 1027 L.S.) 1031 Gymnasium 104 

1011 Grymeus, Simon, 2 1024iGuignard (J.X.P.) 102S Gunn, William (J. Gyninosophi-ts . .. . 104 

1011 Grymeus, Thomas. 1024 Gnignes (J.W.M.). 102S W.M.) 10 liGypsies (J.W.M.). li>4 

1011 Gualbert 1024 Guild 1023 Gunning 1031 Gyrovugi 10. 

1011 Gualter 1024 Guilds (J.W.M.).. 1023 Gunpowder Plot ( J. 

1011 [Guard 1024 Guillemine (J.N.P.) 1029, W.M.) 1032iElliott 104 

1012 'Guardian Angel.. . 10251 ' 


END OF VOL. III. 


66 


J \J 














4 












iso 

mmmm 






^m : \v E 









w> jj 


^S&j/ffS 



Li', 












fii 

iw K 




g&y 



